PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV, J. (Oral) 1. The petitioner-College in the instant writ petition has prayed for the
 following reliefs: - SUBMISSIONS

 Respondent no.2's submissions Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -3- 2. Mr. T. Singhdev, learned counsel who appears for respondent no.2, at
 the outset, raises a preliminary objection with respect to the maintainability
 of the instant writ petition, contending that the cause of action has arisen
 outside the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. He submits that the
 petitioner-College is located in the State of Uttar Pradesh and any relief
 granted by this Court, specifically the approval for the intake capacity of 150
 seats for the Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) as
 sought by the petitioner-College, will have direct implications in the State of
 Uttar Pradesh. He contends that the admissions and associated formalities
 shall necessarily take place in the State of Uttar Pradesh and therefore, there
 is no reason to entertain the instant petition. 3. To fortify his submissions, learned counsel has placed reliance on the
 decisions of this Court in the cases of Sterling Agro Industries Ltd. v.
 Union of India1 , Chinteshwar Steel Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India2 , Ardra
 Joseph v. Union of India & Ors.3 , Bharat Nidhi Ltd. v. SEBI4 , Ashoka
 Marketing Limited & Anr v. Securities and Exchange Board of India &
 Ors5 , White Medical College & Hospital v. Union of India6 , Vemparala
 Srikant v. India Bulls Centrum Flat Owners' Welfare Coop. Society7 , Supreeti Chahal v. Union of India8 , and PDM Dental College and
 Research Institute v. Union of India & Anr.9 1 2011 SCC OnLine Del 3162 2 2012 SCC OnLine Del 5264 3 W.P.(C) 14187/2023 4 2023 SCC OnLine Del 8073 5 2024 SCC OnLine Del 6731 6 2024 SCC OnLine Del 4712 7 2024 SCC OnLine Del 5423 8 2024 SCC OnLine Del 5883 9 W.P.(C) No. 4291/2024 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -4- 4. While placing reliance on the said decisions, learned counsel submits
 that the Court has maintained a consistent stance on the issue of territorial
 jurisdiction in entertaining the writ petitions. He asserts that unless it is
 demonstrated that the integral, essential and material aspects of the cause of
 action have arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, such writ
 petitions are not entertained. Learned counsel further invokes the doctrine of
 forum conveniens, emphasizing that when the core elements of the cause of
 action are found to have arisen in a specific jurisdiction, the parties should
 be relegated to the appropriate jurisdictional Court. 5. Upon expositing the doctrine of forum conveniens, learned counsel
 submits that if the facts and circumstances are appreciated in their right
 contextual setting, the same would indicate that the petitioner-College is
 situated beyond the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. Furthermore, the
 aspects pertinent to the controversy also fall beyond the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court. He, therefore, emphasizes on the following factors
 to contend that only a slender part of cause of action arises within the
 jurisdiction of this Court:- Such a practice, according to learned counsel, would overburden this Court
 with cases that ought to be adjudicated by other jurisdictional Courts and
 consequently, it would also undermine the intent behind the genesis of
 doctrine of forum conveniens. 9. Learned counsel concludes his submissions by asserting that the
 petitioner-College is not precluded from seeking relief in the appropriate Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -6- jurisdictional High Court, which, according to him, is the appropriate forum
 for addressing the matter at hand. Petitioner's submissions 10. Vehemently opposing the contentions advanced by learned counsel
 for the respondents, Mr. Amit Anand Tiwari, learned senior counsel assisted
 by Mr. Meenesh Dubey, learned counsel, appearing for the petitioner-
 College submits that under the scheme of Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India, it is evident that the High Courts are empowered to issue writs in
 relation to controversies where the cause of action has arisen, either wholly
 or in part. 11. Building on this premise, he asserts that the grievance of the
 petitioner-College is not against the State of Uttar Pradesh, its authorities or
 any functionaries located therein. The core issue, according to the learned
 senior counsel, is that the petitioner-College being a new institution seeking
 permission for 150 MBBS seats, has been granted approval for only 50 seats
 by the respondents. He further submits that while the inspection was carried
 out in Uttar Pradesh, the application, evaluation, and resultant decisions
 were all processed by the authorities situated in Delhi, specifically the
 MARB order and the decisions of the appellate forums thereto. 12. Moreover, learned counsel points out that the petitioner-College filed
 the first appeal under Section 28(5) of the NMC Act, 2019, before the NMC,
 which is also situated in Delhi. Upon rejection, the petitioner-College Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -7- preferred the second appeal, which also came to be decided by the Union of
 India, an entity, based within the jurisdiction of this Court. 13. Mr. Tiwari, therefore, contends that if the facts are minutely
 scrutinized, the same would indicate that the entire cause of action has arisen
 within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. In essence, he submits that
 there is no need to relegate the petitioner-College to another High Court for
 the want of territorial jurisdiction. 14. One of the reasons advanced by Mr. Tiwari against being relegated to
 the jurisdictional High Court is the urgency on behalf of the petitioner-
 College to participate in the counselling process. He submits that the State of
 Uttar Pradesh has already published the counselling notification and the
 same is scheduled to be completed within a short period of time. 15. I have considered the submissions made by learned counsel appearing
 for the parties and have perused the record. ANALYSIS 15. The solitary question that falls for consideration of this Court, at this
 stage, is whether the Court is clothed with the requisite territorial
 jurisdiction to entertain the instant writ petition and most importantly,
 whether this Court is the most convenient forum for the parties to agitate
 their grievance. Dominus litis the real master of the proceedings? 16. In order to appreciate the rival submissions, it is expedient to
 primarily advert to the concept of dominus litis which literally translates to Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -8- „master of the suit‟ and which sets the background for the plaintiff or the
 petitioner to establish his/her case. In lucid terms, the doctrine of dominus
 litis, which is referenced from the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908, refers to
 the principle that the person who initiates a legal proceeding is the master of
 the said litigation or the „dominus‟ of the case. The doctrine provides a
 significant autonomy to the petitioner, inasmuch as, it grants an authority to
 the party initiating the civil proceedings to control and manage various
 aspects of the litigation, including but not limited to choosing the
 appropriate jurisdiction, impleading the defendants/respondents, determining
 the nature of relief sought etc. In essence, the aforesaid doctrine is rooted in
 the principle that the party initiating the litigation should have the right to
 decide its course and the petitioner has a right to control its own lawsuit. 17. However, an ancillary but pertinent question which comes to the fore
 as an offshoot of the concept of dominus litis is whether the petitioner‟s right
 of choosing the appropriate forum to initiate any legal action is absolute
 which needs to be candidly accepted or the said decision of the petitioner is
 also subject to judicial scrutiny. To answer this query, it is germane to refer
 to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Krishna Veni Nagam v.
 Harish Nagam10 , wherein, it was held that in a civil proceeding, the plaintiff
 is the dominus litis but if more than one court has jurisdiction, the Court can
 determine which is the convenient forum and lay down conditions in the
 interest of justice subject to which its jurisdiction may be availed. The
 relevant excerpt of the said decision is reproduced as under:- It was noted that as the dispute concerning the contract
 in which the proper law was English law, it meant that
 England was the appropriate forum in which the case
 could be more suitably tried." Though these observations have been made in the context of
 granting anti-suit injunction, the principle can be followed in
 regulating the exercise of jurisdiction of the court where
 proceedings are instituted. In a civil proceeding, the plaintiff is
 the dominus litis but if more than one court has jurisdiction,
 court can determine which is the convenient forum and lay
 down conditions in the interest of justice subject to which its
 jurisdiction may be availed [ Kusum Ingots & Alloys
 Ltd. v. Union of India , (2004) 6 SCC 254, para 30] ." 18. In Ambica Industries v. CCE11 , while highlighting the practical
 constraints involved in the principle of dominus litis, the Supreme Court
 took the following view:- 19. The interplay between the doctrine of dominus litis and forum
 conveniens was clearly elucidated in the decision of the Division Bench of
 this Court in Satish Ahuja v. Union of India12 , wherein, it has been
 categorically held that though the petitioner has a liberty to approach either 11 (2007) 6 SCC 769 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -11- of the Courts where the cause of action arises, however, the ultimate
 decision regarding the appropriate jurisdiction shall be taken by the High
 Court only. Paragraph no. 29 of the said decision is reproduced herein for
 reference:- 20. Another facet of the dominus litis principle which merits
 consideration pertains to the extent of authority granted to the dominus litis
 in impleading the parties, which was explained by the decision of the
 Division Bench of this Court in the case of Kranti Arora v. DIGJAM Ltd.13 in the following words:- 21. In the case of Pratap Singh v. Rahul Gupta14 also, this Court has
 taken a view that it is no more res integra, that in a case where the Court
 deems it necessary and proper, to implead any party depending upon the
 circumstances of the case, it is at the discretion of the Court to direct
 impleadment of such a party whose presence is found necessary and proper
 in effective and proper adjudication of the disputes against the wishes of the
 plaintiff, the „dominus litis‟ and therefore, it is not an indefeasible right. 22. It is thus safely discernible from the aforesaid discussion that as per
 the aforesaid doctrine, the petitioner‟s role as dominus litis includes the right
 to initiate litigation in a forum of his choice if the cause of action arises in
 more than one jurisdictions, provided that the chosen forum falls within the
 bounds of legally permissible jurisdictions. The choice made by the
 petitioner cannot be predicated on flimsy grounds, rather the same must
 adhere to the rules governing territorial jurisdiction and in event that the
 chosen forum does not satisfy the jurisdictional criteria, it can be challenged
 by the opposite party and accordingly, the Court is duly empowered to
 review the same. The underlying rationale behind the said rule of prudence
 is to eliminate any form of manipulation in choice of jurisdiction and to
 align the choice of the petitioner with the principles of justice, fairness and
 convenience. Therefore, the petitioner‟s right to choose a forum is not 14 2013 SCC OnLine Del 468 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -13- etched in stone, rather the same is subject to legal impediments that serve
 the larger interest of justice. 23. Having briefly traversed through the settled jurisprudence on the
 doctrine of dominus litis, the Court shall now proceed to test the objection
 raised by the respondents on the edifice of doctrine of forum conveniens,
 which is predominantly concerned with the accrual of essential, material and
 integral cause of action. Cause of action vis-a-vis forum conveniens a legal quagmire? 24. In the case of Bharat Nidhi, this Court had an occasion to deal with
 the pith and substance of the cause of action which forms the bedrock of an
 adjudication of challenge raised on the ground of forum conveniens. It was
 held that the cause of action means a bundle of facts, which is necessary for
 the plaintiff to prove in order to succeed in the proceedings. It does not
 completely depend upon the character of the relief prayed for by the
 plaintiff, rather the same depends upon the foundation upon which the
 plaintiff lays his/her claim before the Court to arrive at a conclusion in
 his/her favour. It depends on the right which the plaintiff has and its
 infraction. For the sake of completeness, the relevant discussion in the case
 of Bharat Nidhi pertaining to the cause of action needs to be relooked. 25. The generic definition of the term cause of action, which is found to
 be emanating from Section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, refers
 to the "fact which is necessary to establish to support a right to obtain a
 judgment." 26. The „cause of action‟ has also been defined in P. Ramanatha Aiyar in
 Advanced Law Lexicon, 3rd Edition, Volume 1, as under:- 27. In Stroud‟s Judicial Dictionary, "cause of action" is stated to be the
 entire set of facts that gives rise to an enforceable claim; in Words and
 Phrases (4th Edn.), the meaning attributed to the phrase "cause of action" in
 common legal parlance is existence of those facts which give a party a right
 to judicial interference on his behalf. 28. In Halsbury's Laws of England (4th Edn.) it was defined as:- 31. In the case of Kusum Ingots & Alloys Ltd. v. Union of India,17 the
 Supreme Court made a pertinent observation with respect to the cause of
 action, which reads as under:- Before proceeding to discuss the matter further it may be
 pointed out that the entire bundle of facts pleaded need not
 constitute a cause of action as what is necessary to be proved
 before the petitioner can obtain a decree is the material facts.
 The expression material facts is also known as integral facts." 32. Furthermore, whether the facts averred by the writ petitioner, in a
 particular case, constitute a part of the cause of action was decided by the
 Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, in the case
 of Manish Kumar Mishra v. Union of India 18. It was held that the same
 must be determined, on the basis of the test whether such facts constitute a
 material, essential or integral part of the lis between the parties; if it is, it
 forms a part of the cause of action and if it is not, it does not form a part of
 the cause of action. In determining the said question, the substance of the
 matter and not the form thereof has to be considered. 33. It was further held in the case of Manish Kumar Mishra that each
 and every fact pleaded by the parties shall not in itself constitute the cause of
 action, rather it shall be the facts which have a nexus with the lis that is
 involved in the case. Paragraph no. 148 of the said decision reads as under: 34. In Eastern Coalfields Ltd. v. Kalyan Banerjee19 , the following
 meaning was attributed to the phrase „cause of action‟:- 35. Reference can be made to the decision of this Court in the case
 of Heiza Boilers (I) Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India20 , whereby, while
 summarizing the principle regarding material and essential facts in the
 bundle of facts constituting the cause of action, the Court held that what is to
 be seen is whether a particular fact is a material, integral or essential part of
 the lis between the parties. The relevant paragraph reads as under:- 36. In the case of Shristi Udaipur Hotels v. Housing and Urban
 Development Corp.21 a Coordinate Bench of this Court has also dealt with
 the question of whether the „cause of action‟ arises within the jurisdiction of
 this Court when the registered office of the respondent is situated in Delhi.
 The Court noted that since the most vital or significant part of the cause of
 action arises outside the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, thus, mere
 presence of the registered office in Delhi will have no implication to
 determine the question of jurisdiction of the Court. The relevant part of the
 said decision is reproduced herein for reference:- 37. In the case at hand, it is observed that the petitioner-College has
 strenuously relied upon the order passed by the NMC and the appellate
 authority to contend that the essential, integral and material part of cause of
 action has arisen in the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. However, before Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -20- deciding upon the actual place of accrual of essential, material and integral
 facts from the bundle of facts giving rise to the cause of action, the Court
 deems it appropriate to sail through the jurisprudential stream of forum
 conveniens which flows from Article 226 of the Constitution of India and
 most intricately connected to the concept of cause of action. 38. The Court in Bharat Nidhi, while considering the amendment
 brought in Article 226 of the Constitution of India which paved the way for
 the applicability of the concept of cause of action, accentuated on the
 scheme of the amended provision and noted that though the power of
 judicial review cannot be circumscribed by the location of the authority
 against whom the writ is issued, however, the same does not mean that the
 constitutional mandate enshrined under Article 226 (1) can be completely
 neglected or whittled down. The relevant paragraphs of the said decision read as under:- The Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) came into force
 on 5th October, 1963. However, as seen above, this clause
 does not confer new jurisdiction on a High Court, but
 provides an additional ground and extends its jurisdiction
 beyond the boundaries of the State if the cause of action
 arose within its territory." 64. A perusal of Clause 2 of Article 226 indicates that the writ
 jurisdiction can be exercised by the High Court primarily in
 relation to the territories within which the cause of action,
 wholly or in part arises. However, the location of such
 Government or authority or residence of such person, outside
 the territories of the High Court will not deter the High Court
 from issuing the appropriate writ. 65. The introduction of Clause (2) in Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India widened the width of the area for
 issuance of writs by different High Courts, however, the same
 cannot be construed to completely dilute the original intent of
 the Constitution makers which is succinctly encapsulated in
 Clause (1) of Article 226. Rather, Clause (2) is an enabling
 provision, which supplements Clause (1) to empower the High
 Courts to ensure an effective enforcement of fundamental
 rights or any other legal right. Therefore, the power of judicial
 review cannot be circumscribed by the location of the authority
 against whom the writ is issued, however, the same does not
 mean that the constitutional mandate enshrined under Article
 226 (1) can be completely neglected or whittled down." 39. While analysing the scope and extent of Article 226(2) of the
 Constitution of India and surveying a catena of judgments passed by the
 Supreme Court and this Court, the Court in Bharat Nidhi has reached the
 following conclusions:- conveniens. The principles of forum non-conveniens and
 that of Article 226(2) operate in different field, where Article 226(2) (originally Article 226 (1A)) was inserted
 to solve the problem of a litigant needing to go to a High
 Court where the seat of government authority was
 present. (ii) In other words, merely because Article 226(2) allows
 jurisdiction to be conferred on a High Court in the
 absence of the seat of a government authority being Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -24- under its jurisdiction; this does not in itself mean that the
 presence of a seat shall automatically grant jurisdiction. (iii) Article 226(2) allows jurisdiction to be conferred if
 the cause of action, either in part or whole, had arisen in
 the jurisdiction of a High Court, however, where the
 purported cause of action is so minuscule so as to make
 a particular High Court non- convenient, it is then that
 the concept of forum non-conveniens applies." 40. The aforenoted conclusions in Bharat Nidhi can be illustratively
 explained while taking the example of different Benches of the High Courts
 across the concerned States, say the States of Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra,
 Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Rajasthan etc. Generally, the
 State capital city hosts head offices of various State Public Sector
 Undertakings, besides the Government Secretariat and regulatory
 authorities; meaning thereby, all important orders are issued from the State
 capital city only. In almost all the litigations against such authorities, the
 validity of those orders is the primary challenge. However, the aforesaid fact
 in itself does not confer the jurisdiction to the Principal seat of the concerned
 High Court or its Bench to entertain all such cases. The jurisdiction of the
 Principal seat and the Benches is determined not solely on the basis of the
 location/situs of the authority who passes the order but the place of accrual
 of integral, essential and material cause of action is also predominantly
 borne in mind. If the said illustration is to be construed in light of the
 arguments raised by the petitioner herein, then the situs of the aforesaid
 authorities in the State capital cities would ipso facto grant jurisdiction to
 such Principal seat or Bench of the concerned High Courts under which the
 capital city falls, for all the actions taken by any authority in the territorial Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -25- limits of the State capitals. Such an argument, however, cannot be
 countenanced in law. 41. Notably, the decision rendered by this Court in the case of Bharat
 Nidhi was carried in LPA 47/2024, wherein, the Division Bench of this
 Court in its final decision dated 15.01.2024 affirmed the view taken in
 Bharat Nidhi and has held as under:- 42. One of the earliest references to the principle of forum non-
 conveniens can be traced to the locus classicus of Tehran v. Secretary of
 State for the Home Department22, wherein, the House of Lords
 has explained the said principle in the following words:- 43. The authoritative pronouncement of the Supreme Court in the case of
 Kusum Ingots, has explicitly held in no uncertain terms that even if a small
 part of cause of action arises within the territorial jurisdiction of the High
 Court, the same by itself may not be considered to be a determinative factor
 compelling the High Court to decide the matter on merit. In appropriate
 cases, the Court may refuse to exercise its discretionary jurisdiction by
 invoking the doctrine of forum conveniens. 44. In the case of Alchemist Ltd., the Supreme Court took a view that for
 the purpose of deciding whether the facts averred by the petitioner constitute
 a part of cause of action, one has to consider whether such fact constitutes a
 material, essential or integral part of the cause of action. 45. The exposition of law in Kusum Ingots and Alchemist Ltd. was
 followed by a Special Bench of this Court in the case of Sterling Agro,
 wherein, this Court ruled that while exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the doctrine of forum
 conveniens can be applied. It was further observed therein that the situs of
 the cause of action cannot be the sole determinative criteria to confer the
 jurisdiction on this Court and the cause of action would depend upon the
 factual matrix of each case. The relevant paragraphs of the said decision
 read as under:- "32. The principle of forum conveniens in its ambit and sweep
 encapsulates the concept that a cause of action arising within
 the jurisdiction of the Court would not itself constitute to be the
 determining factor compelling the Court to entertain the matter.
 While exercising jurisdiction under Articles 226 and 227 of
 the Constitution of India, the Court cannot be totally oblivious
 of the concept of forum conveniens. The Full Bench in New
 India Assurance Co. Ltd. (supra) has not kept in view the
 concept of forum conveniens and has expressed the view that if
 the appellate authority who has passed the order is situated in
 Delhi, then the Delhi High Court should be treated as the forum
 conveniens. We are unable to subscribe to the said view. 33. In view of the aforesaid analysis, we are inclined to modify,
 the findings and conclusions of the Full Bench in New India
 Assurance Company Limited (supra) and proceed to state our
 conclusions in seriatim as follows: 46. Furthermore, the Division Bench of this Court in the case of Sachin
 Hindurao Waze v. Union of India23 , has held that two essential elements
 must be considered by the Court when determining jurisdiction to decide a
 writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Firstly, whether
 any part of the cause of action arises within its territorial jurisdiction; and
 secondly, whether the said court serves as the forum conveniens for
 adjudicating the matter, ensuring convenience and fairness for all parties
 involved. The relevant portion of the said decision reads as under:- 31. The concept of forum conveniens fundamentally
 means that it is obligatory on the part of the court to see
 the convenience of all the parties before it. The
 convenience in its ambit and sweep would include the
 existence of more appropriate forum, expenses involved,
 the law relating to the lis, verification of certain facts
 which are necessitous for just adjudication of the
 controversy and such other ancillary aspects. The
 balance of convenience is also to be taken note of. Be it
 noted, the Apex Court has clearly stated in the cases
 of Kusum Ingots (supra), Mosaraf Hossain Khan (supra)
 and Ambica Industries (supra) about the applicability of
 the doctrine of forum conveniens while opining that
 arising of a part of cause of action would entitle the
 High Court to entertain the writ petition as
 maintainable. 32. The principle of forum conveniens in its ambit and
 sweep encapsulates the concept that a cause of action
 arising within the jurisdiction of the Court would not
 itself constitute to be the determining factor compelling
 the Court to entertain the matter. While exercising
 jurisdiction under Articles 226 and 227 of the
 Constitution of India, the Court cannot be totally
 oblivious of the concept of forum conveniens. The Full
 Bench in New India Assurance Co. Ltd. (supra) has not
 kept in view the concept of forum conveniens and has
 expressed the view that if the appellate authority who Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -30- has passed the order is situated in Delhi, then the Delhi
 High Court should be treated as the forum conveniens.
 We are unable to subscribe to the said view. (emphasis added)" (2023) 7 SCC 791 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -31- 48. Reliance can also be placed upon the decision in the case of Union of
 India (UOI) v. Adani Exports Ltd.25 , wherein, the Supreme Court ruled
 that:- 49. The situs of the cause of action vis-a-vis the doctrine of forum
 conveniens was also discussed in the case of Nasiruddin v. STAT26,
 wherein, the Supreme Court while construing the provisions of the United
 Provinces High Courts (Amalgamation) Order, 1948, has held that:- The litigant has the right to go to a court where part of his
 cause of action arises. In such cases, it is incorrect to say that
 the litigant chooses any particular court. The choice is by
 reason of the jurisdiction of the court being attracted by part of
 cause of action arising within the jurisdiction of the court.
 Similarly, if the cause of action can be said to have arisen part
 within specified areas in Oudh and part outside the specified
 Oudh areas, the litigant will have the choice to institute
 proceedings either at Allahabad or Lucknow. The court will
 find out in each case whether the jurisdiction of the court is
 rightly attracted by the alleged cause of action." 50. In the case of Pune Buildtech (P) Ltd. v. Bank of India27 , it was
 contended that since loan agreement was signed in Delhi, respondent bank
 has its head office in Delhi, therefore, this Court can exercise the territorial
 jurisdiction. This Court, while applying the doctrine of forum conveniens
 took a view that the substance of a matter is significant in determining the
 material, essential or integral part of the cause of action and the
 Constitutional Courts are saddled with a duty to prevent the abuse of
 jurisdiction by the parties. In the said case, the petitioners therein had
 approached the Court primarily on the ground that certain agreements with
 respect to loan transaction in question were allegedly executed in Delhi. It
 was, however, observed that the essential, material and integral facts i.e.,
 place of declaration of fraud, initiation of complaint, registered offices of the 27 2023:DHC:9156 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -33- parties etc. were all present outside the territorial jurisdiction of this Court.
 The relevant paragraphs of the said decision read as under:- 51. In another case of Ardra Joseph, the petitioner therein belonged to the
 State of Kerala and the principal grievance was against the State Medical
 Council, Kerala. The petitioner in the said case was essentially seeking
 directions against the State Medical Council, Kerala, while drawing strength
 from the policy circulars issued by certain respondents situated in Delhi.
 This Court, while dismissing the petition, held that since offices of some of
 the official respondents having pan-India jurisdiction are situated in Delhi, Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -34- this fact alone would not warrant this Court to entertain the writ petition as
 the material, essential and integral part of cause of action does not arise
 within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. The relevant observations of
 this Court in the said case read as under:- 52. In the case of Chinteshwar Steel, while dismissing the writ petition
 on the ground of substantive part of cause of action arising beyond the
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court, the Court took a view that in case of
 pan-India Tribunals, or Tribunals/statutory authorities having jurisdiction
 over several States, the situs of the Tribunal would not necessarily be the
 marker for identifying the jurisdictional High Court. 53. The decision rendered in Chinteshwar Steel was carried in appeal
 before the Division Bench of this Court vide LPA 801/2012, wherein, while
 sustaining the objection raised on the ground of territorial jurisdiction, the
 Court held that in eventuality where the jurisdiction is conferred upon two
 different High Courts by virtue of the situs of the original and appellate Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -35- authorities in territorial jurisdiction of two distinct High Courts, the High
 Court before whom the said writ petition is filed would have the discretion
 to refuse to entertain it on the ground of forum conveniens. It was further
 held that no doubt the petitioner is dominus litis, but when the choice is
 motivated by temptation/strategy to force the petition at an inconvenient
 place, the Court has the power to step in. The relevant paragraphs of the said
 decision are reproduced as under:- 54. The Division Bench of this Court vide decision dated 05.08.2024 in
 Vemparala Srikant, after considering the authoritative pronouncement of
 the Supreme Court in Universal Sompo General Insurance Co. Ltd. v.
 Suresh Chand Jain28 , held that all the foundational facts necessary to
 constitute a cause of action arising within the local limits of a High Court
 would confer upon such High Court the necessary jurisdiction to exercise its
 powers under Articles 226 or 227 of the Constitution of India. Furthermore,
 the Court observed that if the contention of the respondents therein is
 accepted then consumer who is agitating for his rights at far off places like
 Assam, Manipur or any other distant part of the country would have to
 necessarily travel to Delhi for such redressal since the Appellate Authority is
 situated in Delhi. The relevant observations of this Court in Vemparala
 Srikant is reproduced as under:- 55. Similarly, in the case of Regional Provident Fund Commissioner v.
 M/S BSC-C and CJV29 , it was contended that since the office of Central
 Government Industrial Tribunal is situated in Delhi, therefore, this Court
 would have territorial jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition. The Court
 vide judgement dated 03.10.2023 held that mere fact that the appellate
 authority is situated in Delhi would not ipso facto give rise to the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court. 56. In a decision passed by this Court in Ramnath Singh Sikarwar v.
 Election Commission of India30, the petitioner sought for the video footage
 of the elections conducted in the Fatehpur Lok Sabha Constituency in the
 State of Uttar Pradesh. The entire premise of the petitioner‟s argument
 regarding the territorial jurisdiction of this Court rested on the fulcrum that
 since the ECI has its head office in Delhi, therefore, this Court would have
 the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. The Court, while rejecting the above
 contention held that the issue of forum conveniens cannot be looked into
 from the perspective of the petitioners only, rather the convenience of all the
 parties needs to be taken care of. The pertinent observations of this Court in
 the said case reads as under:- 57. In Aasma Mohd. Farooq v. Union of India31 , this Court was posed
 with a question of maintainability on the pretext of lack of territorial
 jurisdiction in the factual circumstances, wherein, the complaint was filed
 with the adjudicatory authority which was located in Delhi. The Court held 30 W.P.(C) 8891/2024 31 2018 SCC OnLine Del 12800 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -39- that though the complaint has been filed in Delhi and the adjudicating
 authority is present herein, however, it encompasses all the facts which have
 arisen in Mumbai. Paragraph no.11 of the said decision reads as under:- 59. In LPA no. 729/2023 titled as Riddhima Singh through her Father
 Shailendra Singh v. CBSE , while affirming the stand that merely situs of
 CBSE office being in Delhi would not confer jurisdiction upon this Court, Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -42- the Division Bench of this Court has emphatically noted that the doctrine of
 forum conveniens is invoked to determine the most appropriate forum for
 adjudication of a dispute and this exercise is undertaken not only for the
 convenience of the parties but also in the interest of justice. 60. Further reliance can also be placed upon the decision of this Court in
 the case of Dr. Neha Chandra v. Union of India33 , whereby, the petitioner
 therein was posted as a Medical Officer in State of Uttar Pradesh, and was
 declined to take admission in PG diploma course in the Balrampur Hospital,
 Uttar Pradesh by the National Board of Examination in Medical Sciences
 ["NBEMS"], Delhi. It was argued by the petitioner that since the office of
 NBEMS is situated in Delhi, therefore, this Court would have the requisite
 territorial jurisdiction to decide the controversy. However, the Court vide
 order dated 30.09.2024 held that solely because a fraction of the cause of
 action has arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of a particular High Court,
 the same would not be a sufficient ground to persuade the concerned High
 Court to entertain a writ petition. 61. In another case of Manjira Devi Ayurveda Medical College &
 Hospital v. Uttrakhand University of Ayurveda34, the petitioner-Hospital
 sought to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court on the ground that the head
 office of respondent no.2, therein, was situated within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court. Rejecting the aforesaid contention, the Court, in
 paragraph nos.12 to 15 has held as under:- 62. The aforesaid decision passed in the case of Manjira Devi came to be
 challenged in a Letters Patent Appeal before the Division Bench of this
 Court in the case of Manjira Devi Ayurveda Medical College & Hospital v.
 Uttrakhand University of Ayurveda35. The Court, vide its judgment dated
 05.09.2024 has held that the cause of action has arisen within the territorial 35 2024 SCC OnLine Del 6303 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -44- jurisdiction of the Courts of Uttarakhand and the convenient forum to hear
 and decide the present writ petition would be the Uttarakhand High Court. 63. Recently, a Coordinate Bench of this Court had an occasion to deal
 with an almost similar controversy in the case of White Medical College,
 wherein, the petitioner-College was intending to admit 150 MBBS students
 for the academic year 2024-25, however, the renewal permission was denied
 by the respondent therein i.e., NMC. The Court refused to entertain the said
 petition on the ground that the petitioner-College was based in Punjab and
 the affiliating university was also located in Punjab. It was also observed
 that merely because the head office of the NMC was situated in Delhi would
 not be a sufficient ground to maintain the petition in this Court. Paragraph
 no.7 of the said decision reads as under:- 64. Similarly, in the batch of writ petitions of Dr. Supreeti Chahal, the
 petitioner-students therein approached this Court seeking recognition of
 their MDS course on the ground that the office of the Dental Council of
 India ["DCI"] was situated within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court.
 The Court, vide its decision dated 23.08.2024, declined to entertain the Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -45- aforesaid batch of writ petitions, holding that the college in question was
 situated within the State of Haryana and therefore, the appropriate
 jurisdiction did not lie with this Court. 65. In the said case, the petitioners contended that the grievance was
 neither against the college nor against any authorities situated within the
 State of Haryana. The petitioners therein argued that since the office of the
 DCI was situated within the jurisdiction of this Court, therefore, this Court
 should entertain the writ petition. Rejecting the aforesaid submissions, the
 Court, in paragraph nos. 18 to 20, has held as follows:- We may also quote the following passage from the judgment of
 US Supreme Court in Gulf Oil Corporation v. Gilbert: 330 U.S.
 501: 67. Also, in the case of Shanti Devi v. Union of India37 , the Supreme
 Court, while deciding the correctness of a decision passed by the High Court
 of Judicature at Patna which dismissed the petition for lack of territorial
 jurisdiction, inter alia, took into consideration the fact that the deceased
 petitioner therein was a pensioner and the effect of stoppage of his pension
 was felt at his native place in Bihar. The view taken by the Supreme Court is
 reproduced as under:- The employer requires a retiring employee to indicate the place
 where he shall receive pension after his retirement. Late Shri
 B.N. Mishra had opted for receiving his pension in State Bank of
 India, Darbhanga, State of Bihar, which was his native place,
 from where he was drawing his pension regularly for the last 08
 years, stoppage of pension gave a cause of action, which arose
 at the place where the petitioner was continuously receiving the
 pension. We, thus, are of the view that the view of the learned
 Single Judge as well as the Division Bench holding the writ
 petition not maintainable on the ground of lack of territorial
 jurisdiction was completely erroneous and has caused immense
 hardship to the petitioner." Driving home the contours of forum conveniens 68. The salient aspects which emerge from the line of precedents
 discussed above can be delineated as under:- 69. Upon a perusal of the factual matrix of the present case alongwith the
 prevailing jurisprudence governing the controversy at hand, as already
 discussed above, it can be seen that the foundational facts which form the
 essential, material and integral part of cause of action, which gave rise to the
 lis in question have arisen in the State of Uttar Pradesh for the reasons
 enumerated as below:- 70. Testing the jurisdictional aspect on the touchstone of the comparative
 conveniens, as has been envisaged in the case of Vishnu Security, except the
 fact that the documents are present in Delhi and the impugned order has
 been passed in Delhi due to the presence of head office of NMC, nothing
 substantial, integral and material facts to the lis can be seen to be arising in
 Delhi. On the other hand, the petitioner-College is situated in Sambhal
 (Uttar Pradesh), the affiliating University is also located in Uttar Pradesh,
 the students would be granted admission in Sambhal (Uttar Pradesh), the
 infrastructure being the hallmark of a quality education is situated in
 Sambhal (Uttar Pradesh) and the effect of the prayer sought for be ultimately
 felt in Uttar Pradesh, the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad shall be a
 convenient forum to adjudicate upon the controversy at hand. Interestingly,
 the entire purpose of bringing the amendment to Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India was to curb the hardships faced by the litigants and
 therefore, if the jurisdictional issues are brushed aside without a due
 consideration and the petition is entertained because the parties are
 resourceful to approach the jurisdiction of this Court, the same would
 militate against the solemn objectives of the said amendment. 71. Furthermore, as already stated by the Division Bench of this Court in
 Ridhima Singh that the exercise of correcting the jurisdictional error is
 undertaken not only for the convenience of the parties but also in the interest
 of justice, the Court, while adjudicating upon jurisdiction, cannot sit in silos
 without realising the magnitude of public interest involved in the cases like Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -55- the present one. In such cases where future of present students and
 upcoming doctors would be affected, the scales of justice are balanced when
 the Courts recognize the intricate relationship between individual rights and
 the collective good, besides the fact that ends of justice would demand
 striking a balance between individual interest of the litigants and the public
 at large. Afterall, the end goal of justice is not merely resolution of disputes
 between private litigants but to also ensure that the societal needs i.e., access
 to quality medical education, the availability of qualified healthcare
 professionals and the ability of stakeholders to raise grievances in the
 present case, are met. The Courts are, therefore, reasonably expected to act
 as stewards of public welfare, ensuring that jurisdictional decisions reflect a
 balance between convenience, justice and the broader interests of society. 72. Assumingly, if all the orders passed by the authorities which have
 their head offices in Delhi would attract jurisdiction of this Court, as has
 been quixotically argued by the petitioner-College to some extent in the case
 at hand, the same would amount to concentration of jurisdiction on one High
 Court. Undeniably, such a view cannot be countenanced by any prudent
 stretch of imagination and must be eschewed. The said practice would
 overshadow the judicial propriety which must be upheld at all times. 73. Further, Delhi being the national capital, is home to a major chunk of
 central regulatory bodies, central agencies, central Public Sector
 Undertakings etc., with their head offices/registered offices/regional offices
 located within the peripheral limits of the State and generally, the final
 decisions are either directly or indirectly taken by these authorities through
 their offices in Delhi. Notwithstanding the fact that some of the litigants may Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -56- be resourceful in approaching this Court to challenge the action taken by
 these authorities merely because of their situs in Delhi, their resourcefulness
 shall not determine the course of justice. Considering a situation where any
 student is aggrieved by a decision taken by the NMC regarding
 derecognition of his/her degree, if the said student is asked to approach this
 Court only because any adverse order is passed in Delhi, it would create an
 undue hardship, which is verily not the Constitutional mandate enshrined in Article 226. 74. Undoubtedly, the other High Courts of the country are also not
 incapacitated to issue writs against the authorities located in Delhi,
 particularly in light of the authority explicitly granted as per Article 226(2) of the Constitution of India. It is observed that in some cases, the
 entertainability of disputes by different High Courts in absence of there
 being any uniform approach adopted by the parties to agitate their grievance,
 leads to an inconsistency in the adjudication of disputes, which must be
 endeavoured to be avoided. It is significant to curb such an approach in
 context of a broader objective to eliminate any form of abuse of jurisdiction
 at the hands of litigating parties. In fact, this Court has come across several
 cases where the piousness of the writ jurisdiction is surreptitiously attempted
 to be compromised by the parties by making it susceptible to misuse by
 either non-disclosure of already pending proceedings before another High
 Court or through myriad other ways. For instance, recently, in a case where
 the petitioner had a chequered history of litigation in Kerala, filed a petition
 in this Court being aggrieved by a decision of the NMC, without impleading
 the necessary parties situated in Kerala, though only a miniscule part of Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -57- cause of action arose in the jurisdiction of this Court. Upon being confronted
 by the respondents therein on various aspects, including an assertion that the
 same was an attempt to put the relevant stakeholders in dark and unaware of
 the proceedings, the petition was ultimately withdrawn by the petitioner. 75. It is also noteworthy that this Court is coming across numerous cases
 being filed from across the length and breadth of the country and clogging
 the docket of the Court merely on the ground that the impugned action has
 been taken by an authority having the situs in Delhi. In all such cases, an
 argument is made that since the concerned authorities are located in Delhi,
 the same would constitute essential, integral and material facts to confer
 jurisdiction. However, accepting such an argument would lead to
 jurisdictional overreach by this Court, thereby, contradicting and diluting the
 purport of the constitutional scheme outlined in Article 226(2). 76. For instance, in W.P.(C) 14153/2024 decided on 07.10.2024, this
 Court was posed to decide a challenge raised against the order passed by the
 Northern Regional Committee ["NRC"] of the National Council for Teacher
 Education and the appellate authority thereto in Delhi, pertaining to an
 institution which was located in the State of Punjab. While dismissing the
 case on the ground of lack of territorial jurisdiction, the Court noted that if
 the petitioner‟s argument is accepted then any decision of NRC with respect
 to any institution located within the periphery of various States where NRC
 exercises authority, shall be assailable before this Court, which would
 resultantly defeat the applicability of doctrine of forum conveniens as also
 the mandate of law stemming from the provision enshrined in Article 226(2) Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -58- of the Constitution of India. The relevant paragraphs of the said decision reads as under:- 77. Conversely, if the argument that for the purpose of avoiding confusion
 and inconsistency, only this Court must exercise jurisdiction over all the
 authorities located in the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, the same would
 also fail to muster support from the constitutional scheme enshrined in Article 226 of the Constitution of India, which does not intend any such
 restrictive interpretation. 78. Therefore, one of the factors which also merits consideration is which
 Court would be better placed to deal with the prayer and more appositely
 without facing any jurisdictional obstacle. A further scrutiny should also be
 made about the manner in which the prayer is couched so as to ascertain
 whether the same has been done in a clandestine manner to exclude the
 jurisdiction of other Court(s) or otherwise. 79. However, having noted the aforesaid, the Court also reprimands the
 inconsistent stand taken by the NMC in raising the objection regarding lack
 of territorial jurisdiction as it seemingly adopts different stands in similar
 cases. Such a practice is not only highly depreciable in light of the NMC
 being State which is expected to act as a model litigant but at times, it also
 hampers the swift and efficient administration of justice. 80. For instance, recently in the case of IQ City Medical College,
 wherein, the petitioner-College was situated in West Bengal and which
 sought for quashing of the letter of disapproval issued by NMC denying
 permission of increase in seats for the Academic Year 2024-25, the
 respondents did not raise any objection with respect to territorial jurisdiction
 and a decision came to be passed on 19.09.2024. 81. However, as already observed above in White Medical College,
 wherein, almost similar grievance was agitated by the petitioner therein, the
 maintainability of the writ petition was challenged for lack of territorial
 jurisdiction by the NMC. 82. It is therefore observed that the NMC is blowing hot and cold at the
 same time when it comes to raising the challenge based on the territorial Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:15.10.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
11:18:20 KUMAR KAURAV -60- jurisdiction. As a sequitur, undue hardship is being caused to the litigants
 who are ostensibly left in limbo. For instance, after passing of the directions
 in IQ City Medical College vide order dated 19.09.2024, the petitioner-
 institution had again approached the Court with a grievance that counselling
 authority be directed to comply with the judgment and to conduct a special
 counselling round for the students to be admitted due to the increased intake.
 However, the Court noted vide order dated 30.09.2024 that no such
 directions could be passed in a disposed of matter. 83. Therefore, in light of the aforesaid, the Court deemed it apposite to
 analyse multifarious dimensions pertaining to the doctrine of forum non-
 conveniens and reaffirm the settled position of law regarding the same in the
 case at hand. Since our justice delivery system is already crippled with
 mounting pendency, it is necessary for the Courts to ensure that the judicial
 time and resources is used judiciously. Judicial time, in principle and in fact,
 is public‟s time and the principles discussed above are only meant to realise
 the goal that it goes to the deserving causes in an appropriate manner so that
 the constitutional promise of guaranteed protection of rights is fulfilled in a
 time-bound manner. 84. In view of the aforesaid, this Court is of the considered opinion that
 this Court is not the comparatively convenient forum for the parties to
 effectively ventilate their grievance. 85. Accordingly, the petition stands dismissed alongwith the pending
 application(s) with a liberty to the petitioner-College to approach the
 jurisdictional High Court. 86. All rights and contentions of the parties are left open.