% 24.09.2024 1. The Senior Divisional Engineer, Northern Railway, Firozpur,
 entered into an agreement with the respondent on 25 September 2000
 for carrying out work on the Jalandhar-Firozpur section of the
 Northern Railway. The original date of completion of the work was
 20 December 2000. The agreement provided for resolution of disputes
 by arbitration. 2. Alleging that certain payments were due to him from the
 Railways, the respondent approached the petitioner/Railways to
 appoint an arbitrator. On the petitioner not agreeing, the respondent O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 1 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 approached this Court under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act 19961. 3. By order dated 5 October 2004, this Court appointed a former
 Director General of the Central Public Works Department as the
 arbitrator, who has come to pass the award under challenge in these
 proceedings. 4. After the learned arbitrator had entered on reference, the
 petitioner filed an application before this Court on 30 December 2004,
 for setting aside the order referring the disputes to arbitration, as the
 respondent had issued a No Claim Certificate2 in favour of the
 petitioner on 13 October 2003. As the respondent had thus disclaimed
 any amount remaining due from the petitioner, it was submitted that
 there was no arbitrable dispute left for decision. 5. The said application was disposed of by this Court with liberty
 to the petitioner to raise the issue before the learned arbitrator. 6. The dispute has finally come to be decided by the learned
 arbitrator by the award dated 17 October 2008 under challenge in this
 petition. 7. Of the fifteen claims preferred by the respondent, the learned
 arbitrator has awarded only four, apart from costs and interest. 8. Aggrieved by the award, the petitioner Railway has moved this
 Court under Section 34 of the 1996 Act. 9. I have heard Mr. Jivesh Tiwari, learned Counsel for the
 petitioner and Mr. S.W. Haider, learned Counsel for the respondent at
 length. 10. Learned counsel have also filed written submissions. Rival contentions 11. Mr. Tiwari restricted his challenge to two aspects, viz., (i) the
 NCC issued by the respondent and its effect and (ii) the correctness of
 the decision of the learned arbitrator to award interest. 12. Mr. Tiwari submits that, once the respondent had signed the
 NCC, he was not entitled to maintain any claim against the petitioner
 in respect of work allegedly done but not paid. Mr. Tiwari relies on
 Clauses 43(a) and 51 of the GCC, which read thus: 13. He submits that, inasmuch as they are in the teeth of these
 clauses, the findings of the learned Arbitrator, on the implications of
 the NCC, are not sustainable in law. 14. On the aspect of interest, Mr. Tiwari places reliance on sub-
 clauses (2) and (3) of clause 16 of the GCC, which read thus: clause (1) of this Clause will be repayable with interest accrued
 thereon. 15. In this context, he has also placed reliance on paras 3 and 4 of
 the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court of Gauhati in UOI v Major V.P. Nijhawan (Retd )3, which read thus: 16. For the aforesaid reasons, Mr. Tiwari submits that the impugned
 award is completely illegal. The respondent was not entitled to be
 awarded any of its claims in view of the NCC submitted by the
 respondent voluntarily. 17. Without prejudice, he submits that the learned Arbitrator could
 not have awarded interest as there was a specific proscription against
 grant of interest engrafted into the GCC, which was binding on the
 parties. 18. Responding to the submissions of Mr. Tiwari, Mr. S.W. Haider
 relies, on the admissibility of the respondent's claims despite the
 NCC, on paras 8, 9, 11, 14 and 15 of the impugned order, which read
 thus: "8. According to the Respondents, the contractor completed the
 work on 10.10.2003. After completion of work, all the items of
 work were entered full and final in measurement book the very
 next day i.e. on 11.10.2003 and in token of acceptance, the
 claimants have "willfully" signed the No Claim Certificate. The
 final bill dated 13.10.2003 was passed for payment after scrutiny
 on various stages on 3.11.2003. 9. If the contractor has any reservations to the measurements
 or has any dispute, clause 45(A) of the General Conditions of
 Contract provides for 'acceptance of the bill under protest. The
 Clause 45(A) reads as follows: ***** 11. Claimant-Sangwan argue that the work was actually
 completed around September/October 2002 except for the fan
 shaped turnovers, which were not taken up at all as materials
 required for the work were not supplied by the Railway. As a
 matter of fact, this item of work has not been executed even now.
 During the execution of the work, the Claimants were forced to
 execute certain extra items as they were essential for completing
 the scheduled items in the contract. The Claimant raised disputes
 regarding these extra items vide his letters dated 27.3.2001,
 1.10.2002, 20.12.2002, and 10.01.2003 (copies supplied along with
 statement of claims). This extra work was not recorded in the
 measurements books. The Claimants were told that the extra items
 would be included in the addendum/corrigendum to be prepared
 later and included in the final bills. The No Objection signed in the
 measurement books pertained to measurements recorded till then
 and not disputed. Items claimed as extra work were not recorded.
 Hence, the question of full and final settlement in case of
 measurement/claims did not arise. 14. Documents produced by the parties have been examined.
 Ledger of materials issued shows that the main item required.
 Rails, was last issued in April 2002, PSC Sleepers and fittings were
 last issued in September 2001. Last entry in the site order book, in
 which Inspecting officers write their instructions to the contractor,
 is made by the ADEN on 29.5.2002. All these lead to the
 conclusion that the work was practically completed well before
 December 2002, as the Contractor claims Date of completion
 recorded originally in the measurement book, the final bill, the
 material issue ledger etc. in 20.12.2002 This has been changed in
 most records to 10.10.2003 by overwriting on the earlier entry, but
 without any dated signature. Respondents-Railways have not given
 any satisfactory explanation for overwriting the date of completion.
 The final bill was passed on 3.11.03 and paid on 3.12.03, almost a
 year after the actual completion as originally recorded 15. I have gone through the documents/written statements and
 the oral arguments by both the parties, It is clear that disputes were
 raised during currency of the contract but no attempt was made by
 Respondents to discuss and reconcile disputes raised by the
 Claimants so as to arrive at an agreed amount of the final bill.
 There was no accord and satisfaction of the Claimant at the time of
 signing of the No Claim Certificate. The measurement recorded in
 the MB did not include the items for which claims were raised
 during the execution of the contract. The NCC in the final Bill was
 signed routinely on a printed form, it is not dated but it is obvious
 that it has been signed before the amount of final bill was known.
 There was delay of almost a year between the completion of the
 work, as recorded originally in the MB and final bill and payment
 made to the Claimants. The amount of the final bill was substantial
 and withholding the processing and payment of the final bill itself
 constitutes pressure or coercion on the Claimant for forcing them
 to sign the No Claim Certificate." 19. Mr. Haider submits that there is no error in the awarding of
 interest by the learned Arbitrator either. Pre award, he submits that
 the learned Arbitrator was competent to award interest. Clause 16, he
 submits, pertains only to interest on earnest money deposit4 and
 security deposit. 20. The words "any other amount payable to the contractor" in
 Clause 16, he submits, have to be read ejusdem generis with the words
 "earnest money deposit" and "security deposit". The clause cannot be
 interpreted as containing a complete bar on the grant of pre award
 interest to the claimant. Moreover, he submits that Clause 16 applies
 to a defaulting contractor, and his client was not one. The power to
 grant post award interest, he submits, is available with the learned
 Arbitrator under Section 31(7) 5 of the 1996 Act. Analysis

 Re. the NCC and its implications - The law in that regard 21. It is not in dispute that the NCC was signed by the respondent
 on 11 October 2003, whereas the final bill was raised on 13 October
 2003 and passed for payment after scrutiny on 3 November 2003. On
 the aspect of accord and satisfaction by signing the NCC, the
 respondent contended before the learned Arbitrator, that the NCC was
 printed on the final bill at the insistence of the petitioner, and was
 signed even prior to finalising the bill. It was submitted that accord
 and satisfaction by way of full and final settlement of the amount
 payable to the respondent could be provided only at the time of

 5 (7)(a) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, where and in so far as an arbitral award is for the payment
 of money, the arbitral tribunal may include in the sum for which the award is made interest, at such rate as it
 deems reasonable, on the whole or any part of the money, for the whole or any part of the period between the
 date on which the cause of action arose and the date on which the award is made. (b) A sum directed to be paid by an arbitral award shall, unless the award otherwise directs, carry
 interest at the rate of two per cent higher than the current rate of interest prevalent on the date of award, from
 the date of award to the date of payment. Explanation.--The expression "current rate of interest" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under
 clause (b) of Section 2 of the Interest Act, 1978 (14 of 1978). receiving payment. In the present case, the NCC was signed before the
 final bill was even prepared. As such, it was submitted that the signing
 and issuance of the NCC did not estop the respondent from claiming
 payment, from the petitioner, for work executed by the respondent and
 not paid. 22. The learned Arbitrator, apart from placing reliance on the
 judgment of the Supreme Court in Chairman & MD, NTPC v Reshmi
 Constructions6 , rejected petitioner's plea that the claims of the
 respondent stood discharged by accord and satisfaction by reasoning
 thus, in paras 15 and 17 thereof: 6 (2004) 2 SCC 663 O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 9 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55 23. The aspect of whether the entitlement to recover money against
 a contract stands extinguished on the tendering of a discharge voucher
 or NCC has formed subject matter of debate before the Supreme Court
 on a number of occasions, and the legal position in that regard may be
 treated as settled. A chronological excursion through the decisions
 would be instructive. United India Insurance v Ajmer Singh Cotton & General Mills7 24. The Supreme Court, in the opening para of this decision,
 identified three issues as arising for consideration before it. Of these,
 the first issue is alone of relevance to us, and may be reproduced thus: 25. The respondent Ajmer Singh Cotton & General Mills8 took two
 policies from the appellant United India Insurance9. ASCGM suffered
 loss on account of fire. Fire loss was covered by the insurance policy.
 United appointed surveyors, and consequent on their reports,
 payments were made by United to ASCGM. ASCGM accepted the
 payments with a declaration, on the receipt, which read "sum in full
 and final discharge of claims upon them". 26. Thereafter, ASCGM filed a complaint petition before the State
 Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, Chandigarh10. The claims
 were dismissed by the SCDRC. ASCGM appealed to the National
 Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission11, which allowed the
 appeal and directed United to pay interest to ASCGM @ 18%. 27. Dealing with the aspect of whether ASCGM's claims were
 rightly allowed by the NCDRC, the Supreme Court held, in paras 4
 and 5 of the report, thus: 28. Thus, in ASCGM, the Supreme Court held that: If, in a given case, the consumer satisfied the authority that the
 discharge voucher was obtained by fraud, mis-representation, undue
 influence or "coercive bargaining compelled by circumstances", the
 authority could grant relief despite the discharge vouchers. However, O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 12 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 on the facts before it, the Supreme Court held that the discharge
 vouchers had been voluntarily executed by ASCGM, which had not
 alleged the execution to be under fraud, undue influence, mis-
 representation, or the like. In the absence of any pleadings and
 evidence to the said effect, the Supreme Court held that the SCDRC
 rightly rejected ASCGM's complaints, and that the NCDRC was,
 therefore, not justified in reversing the said decision . The Supreme
 Court, therefore, allowed the appeal, set aside the decision of the
 NCDRC, and restored the decision of the SCDRC. Reshmi Constructions 29. Unlike ASCGM, Reshmi Constructions - as well as the cases
 which follow hereinafter - was a case which dealt with arbitration.
 The Supreme Court framed the issue arising for consideration, in the
 opening paragraph of the decision as "whether an arbitration clause in
 a contract agreement survives despite purported satisfaction thereof".
 This, therefore, is a case - like all others which follow, but one, in
 which the controversy arose at the stage of reference of the dispute to
 arbitration. 30. In this case, Reshmi Constructions13 was contracted by NTPC
 to carry out certain works. The final bill of Reshmi was not accepted
 by NTPC, which prepared its own final bill and forwarded it to

 13 "Reshmi", hereinafter O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 13 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 Reshmi with a No-Demand Certificate14 in a printed format. The NDC
 was signed by Reshmi, and read thus: 31. However, on the same day, Reshmi addressed a communication
 to NTPC, stating that, as NTPC was not releasing its dues, and as
 Reshmi had to make onward payments to banks and other authorities,
 it had signed the NDC under duress, coercion and undue influence. It
 was specifically alleged, therefore, thus: Reshmi, therefore, requested NTPC to clear the final bill which it had
 forwarded to NTPC, ignoring the NDC. On NTPC not doing so,
 Reshmi invoked arbitration. The request for referring the dispute to
 arbitration was not outrightly rejected by NTPC. The dispute was
 sought to be referred to arbitration by NTPC. Reshmi, thereupon, filed
 an application before the subordinate judge under Section 20 of the
 erstwhile Arbitration Act, 194015. The learned judge dismissed the
 application. Reshmi appealed to the High Court of Kerala, which
 allowed the appeal. NTPC appealed to the Supreme Court. 32. Para 13 of the report of the Supreme Court delineates the issues
 which arose for consideration. Issue (ii) was worded thus: 33. The position of law was set out, in paras 16, 18 and 26 to 28 of
 the report, thus: 34. In the paragraphs from the decisions extracted supra, the
 Supreme Court held thus: 35. Applying these principles to the facts before it, the Supreme
 Court held, in para 39 of the report, that (i) the arbitration agreement in the contract between NTPC
 and Reshmi subsisted because, inter alia, the dispute regarding
 the final bill had arisen prior to its acceptance, as NTPC had
 refused to accept the final bill as raised by Reshmi, (ii) it was not NTPC 's case that any settlement had taken
 place, as a result of which the final bill, as prepared by NTPC,
 was unconditionally accepted by Reshmi without demur, (iii) immediately after receiving payment of the final bill,
 Reshmi had lodged its protest and reiterated its claims, (iv) NTPC never made out a claim of novation of the original
 contract agreement and its substitution by a new contract. Thus, the Supreme Court held that the disputes raised by Reshmi
 continued to be arbitrable, despite the NDC signed by it. 36. This, perhaps, is the case which is most proximate to the case at
 hand, both on facts and in law. It is, in fact, the only case in which the
 applicability of the accord and satisfaction principle where a NCC that
 had been issued was examined after the award had been rendered, in
 a Section 34 challenge. 37. The UOI contracted with Ambica Construction20 to carry out
 work in the Mancheswar Complex. Ambica could not complete the
 work within time. It accordingly applied for extension of time, but
 was not communicated any decision on the application. As a result,
 Ambica contended that it had suffered huge losses on account of
 idling of labour and surplus staff. Ambica's request in this regard was
 turned down and certain deductions were made by the UOI from the
 running bills submitted by Ambica. The UOI also defaulted in
 payment of certain works done by Ambica. According to Ambica, the
 UOI refused to refund Ambica's security deposit unless Ambica
 submitted a NCC in terms of Clause 43(2) of the GCC. Having no
 other alternative, and having suffered huge losses on account of idling
 of labour and surplus staff and establishment expenses, Ambica
 submitted a NCC, so that it could at least obtain a refund of its
 security deposit. 38. On 17 January 1996, Ambica called upon the UOI to pay the
 amounts which, according to Ambica, were due to it, failing which it
 was requested that the disputes be referred to arbitration. On neither

 20 "Ambica", hereinafter O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 19 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 request being acceded to, Ambica filed an application before the High
 Court of Calcutta under Section 11 of the 1996 Act. 39. The matter was placed before the Chief Justice of the High
 Court, who appointed an arbitrator to arbitrate on the disputes. The
 arbitrator came to a finding that the NCC had been signed by Ambica
 under duress and coercion. Even so, the arbitrator disallowed
 Ambica's claim but allowed Ambica costs of ₹ 1.03 lakhs. 40. Both parties were aggrieved by this award, and challenged it.
 The High Court of Calcutta set aside the award and appointed another
 arbitrator to arbitrate on the disputes, by consent of parties. This
 second arbitrator, by award dated 25 May 2001, allowed Ambica's
 claim. 41. The UOI challenged the award before the High Court of
 Calcutta under Section 34 of the 1996 Act. Among the contentions
 advanced by the UOI was the submission that the arbitrator had not
 considered, inter alia, Clauses 43(2) and 16(2) of the GCC. 42. The learned Single Judge of the High Court of Calcutta
 dismissed the Section 34 application of the UOI. 43. The matter was carried by the UOI in appeal to the Division
 Bench. The Division Bench took note of the NCC submitted by
 Ambica and found that, apart from a mere statement, there was no
 proof of Ambica having being compelled to sign the certificate under O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 20 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 coercion or duress. No such finding, it was noted, had been arrived at
 by the arbitrator either. The appeal of the UOI was, therefore, allowed
 and the award of the arbitrator was set aside. 44. Ambica appealed to the Supreme Court. 45. Paras 16 to 20 of the report of the Supreme Court read thus: 17. A glance at the said clause will immediately indicate that a
 no-claim certificate is required to be submitted by a contractor
 once the works are finally measured up. In the instant case the
 work was yet to be completed and there is nothing to indicate that
 the works, as undertaken by the contractor, had been finally
 measured and on the basis of the same a no-claim certificate had
 been issued by the appellant. On the other hand, even the first
 arbitrator, who had been appointed, had come to a finding that no-
 claim certificate had been given under coercion and duress. It is the
 Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court which, for the first
 time, came to a conclusion that such no-claim certificate had not
 been submitted under coercion and duress. 18. From the submissions made on behalf of the respective
 parties and in particular from the submissions made on behalf of
 the appellant, it is apparent that unless a discharge certificate is
 given in advance, payment of bills are generally delayed. Although,
 Clause 43(2) has been included in the General Conditions of O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 21 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 Contract, the same is meant to be a safeguard as against frivolous
 claims after final measurement. Having regard to the decision
 in Reshmi Constructions it can no longer be said that such a
 clause in the contract would be an absolute bar to a contractor
 raising claims which are genuine, even after the submission of such
 no-claim certificate. 19. We are convinced from the materials on record that in the
 instant case the appellant also has a genuine claim which was
 considered in great detail by the arbitrator who was none other than
 the counsel of the respondent Railways. 20. In such circumstances we are inclined to hold that
 notwithstanding Clause 43(2) of the General Conditions of
 Contract and the submission of a no-claim certificate by the
 appellant, the appellant was entitled to claim a reference under the
 contract and the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court was
 wrong in holding otherwise." (Emphasis supplied) 46. Thus, the Supreme Court held, in Ambica Construction, that (i) Clause 43(2) envisaged submission of the NCC after the
 work was measured up, (ii) there was nothing to indicate that, on the date when
 Ambica tendered the NCC, the work had been finally
 measured, (iii) even the first arbitrator who had been appointed had
 come to a finding that the NCC was given under duress and
 coercion, (iv) it was apparent that, unless a discharge certificate was
 given in advance, payment of bills was generally delayed, and (v) Clause 43(2) was included as a safeguard against
 frivolous claims after final measurement. 47. The Supreme Court, therefore, held that Ambica had a genuine
 claim which had been considered correctly by the arbitrator. National Insurance Co Ltd v Boghara Polyfab21 48. In para 1 of this decision, the Supreme Court identifies the
 question involved for it as being "whether the dispute raised by an
 insured, after giving a full and final discharge voucher to the insurer,
 can be referred to arbitration". Thus, here, too, the Court was
 concerned with referability of the issue to arbitration, rather than the
 correctness of the decision of the arbitrator on the issue. 49. The respondent Boghara Polyfab22 was insured with the
 appellant National Insurance Co Ltd23. On 5 August 2004, Boghara
 reported loss of its stocks on account of heavy rain and flooding. A
 surveyor was appointed, who submitted a report. Boghara disputed the
 report. Ultimately, according to Boghara, NIC refused to compensate
 Boghara unless Boghara issued an undated "discharge voucher-in -
 advance", in a prescribed form, acknowledging receipt of an amount
 of ₹ 2,33,94,964/- in full and final settlement of its claims. NIC sent
 the format of the discharge voucher to Boghara which, owing to the
 dire financial condition in which it was placed, it had no option but to
 sign it and send it back. Payment was released to Boghara by NIC
 only after the signed undated discharge voucher was received back by
 NIC. According to the voucher, Boghara had received ₹ 2,33,94,964/- in full and final settlement of all its claims in respect of the property
 lost/damaged, and NIC stood absolved from all liability present or
 future, arising out of the said loss or damage, under the policy. 50. Simultaneously, with receipt of the payment from NIC,
 however, Boghara lodged a complaint with the Insurance Regulatory
 and Development Authority24, complaining of having been coerced
 into signing the discharge voucher, as NIC refused to release its
 payment unless Boghara did so. This was followed by a legal notice,
 in which Boghara alleged that the amount due to it was actually ₹
 3,18,26,025/-, and that it had accepted the lower amount of ₹
 2,33,94,964/- and tendered the undated discharge voucher under
 duress and implicit coercion. In the event that NIC did not pay the
 claimed amount to Boghara, Boghara sought reference of the dispute
 to arbitration. 51. As against this, NIC alleged that Boghara had unconditionally
 accepted the claim settlement amount fully and finally, without any
 protest and that the settlement had taken place after amicable
 discussions. As such, NIC contested the existence of any arbitrable
 dispute. 52. In such circumstances, Boghara petitioned the High Court of
 Bombay under Section 11 of the 1996 Act. The learned Chief Justice
 of the High Court, who heard the matter, held that there was a serious
 difference between the parties as to whether the discharge voucher had

 24 "IRDA" hereinafter O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 24 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 been given voluntarily or under pressure and coercion, which was
 referrable to arbitration. He, therefore, appointed a learned retired
 Judge of the Supreme Court as the arbitrator. 53. NIC appealed against the said decision to the Supreme Court. 54. Before the Supreme Court, NIC contended that, in view of the
 execution of the discharge voucher by Boghara, there was discharge of
 the contract by accord and satisfaction and that, therefore, neither
 contract, nor claim, survived. 55. The Supreme Court framed the following question as arising for
 consideration: 56. The Supreme Court went on, thereafter, to refer to its earlier
 decisions in UOI v Kishorilal Gupta & Bros , Damodar Valley
 Corporation v K.K. Kar25 and SBP & Co v Patel Engineering Ltd26
 and proceeded to hold, in para 24 of the report, that a claim for
 arbitration could not be rejected merely or solely on the ground that
 the claimant had executed a settlement agreement or discharge

 25 (1974) 1 SCC 141
 26 (2005) 8 SCC 618 O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 25 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 voucher, if its validity was disputed by the claimant. Thereafter, the
 Supreme Court examined the plea of accord and satisfaction thus: given by the Privy Council in Payana Reena Saminathan v. Pana
 Lana Palaniappa27 (reiterated in Kishorilal Gupta) is as under: 27 (1913-14) 41 IA 142 O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 26 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 are extinguished. They have in fact been exchanged for the
 new rights; and the new agreement becomes a new
 departure, and the rights of all the parties are fully
 represented by it." (emphasis supplied) 29. It is thus clear that the arbitration agreement contained in a
 contract cannot be invoked to seek reference of any dispute to
 arbitration, in the following circumstances, when the contract is
 discharged on account of performance, or accord and satisfaction,
 or mutual agreement, and the same is reduced to writing (and
 signed by both the parties or by the party seeking arbitration): (Italics in original; underscoring supplied) 57. The Supreme Court went on, thereafter, to refer to the
 judgments in State of Maharashtra v Nav Bharat Builders28 and
 Nathani Steels Ltd v Associated Constructions29, and to distinguish
 the said decisions on the ground that, in those cases, the Supreme
 Court examined the facts and satisfied itself that the contract was fully
 discharged by accord and satisfaction and that there was no evidence

 28 1994 Supp (3) SCC 83
 29 1995 Supp (3) SCC 324 Ajmer O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 27 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 to support the allegation of coercion or undue influence.30 Besides,
 significantly observed the Supreme Court in para 45 of the report, the
 decisions in Nav Bharat Builders and Nathani Steels had been
 rendered under the 1940 Act, which was "different in perspective" 30 I may note, here, that, after the recent decision of the Supreme Court in SBI General Insurance v Krish

 Spinning, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1754, it is no longer open to a Court exercising jurisdiction under Section
 11 of the 1996 Act to examine whether the contract stands discharged by accord and satisfaction. The referral
 court has now to restrict the scope of its examination to the issue of whether there exists an arbitration
 agreement between the parties and whether the Section 11 petition has been filed within 3 years of the Section
 21 notice. To the extent that Boghara Polyfab, and other decisions, hold that the referral court could examine
 the aspect of discharge of the contract by accord and satisfaction, that exposition of the law may not continue
 to hold good. economic strength of the contracting parties. It will apply where
 the inequality is the result of circumstances, whether of the
 creation of the parties or not. It will apply to situations in which the
 weaker party is in a position in which it can obtain goods or
 services or means of livelihood only upon the terms imposed by
 the stronger party or go without them. It will also apply where a
 man has no choice, or rather no meaningful choice, but to give his
 assent to a contract or to sign on the dotted line in a prescribed or
 standard form or to accept a set of rules as part of the contract,
 however unfair, unreasonable and unconscionable a clause in that
 contract or form or rules may be. This principle, however, will not
 apply where the bargaining power of the contracting parties is
 equal or almost equal. This principle may not apply where both
 parties are businessmen and the contract is a commercial
 transaction. In today's complex world of giant corporations with
 their vast infrastructural organisations and with the State through
 its instrumentalities and agencies entering into almost every branch
 of industry and commerce, there can be myriad situations which
 result in unfair and unreasonable bargains between parties
 possessing wholly disproportionate and unequal bargaining power.
 These cases can neither be enumerated nor fully illustrated. The
 court must judge each case on its own facts and circumstances."
 (Emphasis in original) 59. Following the above discussion, the Supreme Court in Boghara
 Polyfab, held thus: (Emphasis supplied) 60. Thus, in Boghara Polyfab, the Supreme Court recognized the
 reality that, oftentimes in commercial contracts, undated vouchers or
 receipts are obtained from the party to whom the contract was
 awarded, vouchsafing that complete payment had been made, at times
 much prior to the actual making of the payment. The Supreme Court
 held that, if the payment was released much after the receipt was
 obtained, the acknowledgement on the receipt would be absurd and
 meaningless. The practice of obtaining undated NDCs and full and
 final discharge vouchers, acknowledging discharge of liability on
 receipt of an amount less than the actual claim of the contractor was
 castigated as "unfair, irregular and illegal" and requiring to be
 deprecated. 61. Among the examples cited in para 52 of the report, is example (iii) in which, on the insistence of the employer, a contractor who is
 hard pressed for funds and keen to get the admitted amount released,
 signs a certificate to the effect that the amount received was in full
 and final settlement of his dues. In such a case, the Supreme Court
 held that the certificate having been signed under economic duress on
 account of coercion employed by the employer was not voluntary and
 would not result in discharge of the liability of the employer by accord
 and satisfaction. Even in a situation in which the admitted amount was
 released, a few days after the No Dues Certificate was given by the
 contractor, the Supreme Court held that the coercion was subtle but O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 32 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 very much real and that the accord could not be treated as having been
 granted by free consent. ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd v ANS Constructions Ltd 32 62. It must be noted at this juncture itself that, this decision, as also
 the judgment in United India Insurance Company Ltd v Antique Art
 Exports Pvt Ltd33 to which allusion would follow hereinafter, cannot
 be said to be good law, given the recent decision of the Supreme
 Court in SBI General Insurance. In both these decisions, the
 Supreme Court held that the High Court ought to have rejected the
 request for referring the dispute to arbitration by properly examining
 whether the debt stood discharge by accord and satisfaction. Had it
 done so, the Supreme Court holds, in both these decisions, that the
 High Court would have found that the debt had indeed been
 discharged and that, therefore, no arbitrable dispute survived. SBI
 General Insurance, however, has revised the legal position regarding
 the scope of examination by a Section 11 Court. The position in law
 as it exists today is that a Section 11 Court cannot examine anything
 except the existence of an arbitration agreement between the parties
 and whether the Section 11 petition has been filed within three years
 of the Section 21 notice. The decisions in ONGC Mangalore
 Petrochemicals and Antique Art Exports, therefore, to the extent they
 hold that the High Court could have examined the aspect of accord

 32 (2018) 3 SCC 373
 33 (2019) 5 SCC 362 O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 33 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 and satisfaction, cannot be said to be any more applicable in view of
 the law as it stands today. 63. Nonetheless, these decisions reiterate the principles regarding
 discharge of debts by accord and satisfaction, consequent on the
 furnishing of a discharge voucher or a NCC and, to that extent, are
 relevant. 64. In ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals, the final bill of the
 contractor was paid 20 days after the contractor furnished a no dues/
 no claim certificate, certifying payment of all bills and in total
 settlement of the contractor's claims under the contract. A fortnight
 thereafter, however, the contractor withdrew the NCC stating that it
 had been submitted under duress and coercion. Thereafter, the
 contractor sent a notice to the employer for resolving the disputes by
 arbitration. On the employer refusing to do so, the contractor
 approached the High Court under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act. The
 High Court allowed the petition. Aggrieved, the contractor
 approached the Supreme Court. 65. Para 11 of the report identifies the "only point for
 consideration" before the Supreme Court "as being whether the
 respondent contractee34 Company has made out a case for referring
 the disputes to arbitration". 34The judgment refers to the employer as the "contractor" and the contractor as the "contractee." To
 maintain uniformity, however, I have chosen to use the expressions "employer" and "contractor". 66. This decision broadly reiterates the principles contained in the
 authorities cited in this judgment. Before the Supreme Court, the
 employer sought to contend that by virtue of the no dues certificate
 issued by the contractor, the contract had come to an end and all
 obligations thereunder stood discharged. No arbitral disputes therefore
 survived. 67. The Supreme Court after referring to earlier decisions,
 including Boghara Polyfab, held that the party approaching the Court
 under Section 11 could not content itself by raising a bald plea of
 fraud, duress or undue influence and was required to prima facie
 examine the existences of these factors by plying material before this
 Court. The principle that applied was thus stated in para 25 of the
 report: 68. On facts, the Supreme Court held thus: Antique Art Exports 69. This again was a case in which the appeal to the Supreme Court
 was directed against an order by this Court under Section 11(6) of the
 1996 Act, referring the disputes between the parties to arbitration. The
 disputes pertained to two fire insurance policies taken by the
 respondent/Antique Art Exports35 from the petitioner United India

 35 "Antique", hereinafter O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 36 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 Insurance Company Ltd.36. A fire occurred at the premises of Antique.
 United appointed a surveyor, who submitted a report and thereafter,
 addressed an email to Antique stating that it had approved Antique's
 claim for an amount of ₹ 2,81,44,413/-. On the same day, Antique
 sent a reply accepting the computation and providing the details
 sought by the United along with a final discharge voucher and details
 of the bank account into which the amount was to be credited. 70. The Supreme Court observed that Antique had accepted the
 amount offered by United without any demur and protest after full and
 final settlement and discharge of the claims. At no point was there any
 allegation of coercion or undue influence as having been employed by
 United. It was only eleven weeks after the receipt of the amount and
 full and final discharge that Antique alleged fraud, coercion and
 undue influence, as the circumstances under which Antique signed the
 final discharge voucher. The Supreme Court observed that no prima
 facie evidence was provided by Antique in support of this allegation. 71. In para 12 of the report, the Supreme Court observed that,
 though the existence of an arbitration agreement between the parties
 was not in dispute, the question did arise as to whether the discharge
 of the obligation of United towards Antique upon acceptance of
 compensation and signing of the discharge letter by the Antique was
 voluntarily or under coercion or under undue influence and therefore,
 whether Antique was justified in invoking Section 11(6) . The
 Supreme Court noted the position of law, enunciated in Boghara

 36 "United", hereinafter O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 37 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 Polyfab, that execution of a full and final agreement, receipt or a
 discharge voucher itself was not a bar to arbitration. Thereafter, the
 Supreme Court dealt with the facts before it thus: 15. From the proposition which has been laid down by this
 Court, what reveals is that a mere plea of fraud, coercion or undue
 influence in itself is not enough and the party who alleged is under
 obligation to prima facie establish the same by placing satisfactory
 material on record before the Chief Justice or his Designate to
 exercise power under Section 11(6) of the Act, which has been
 considered by this Court in New India Assurance Co.
 Ltd. v. Genus Power Infrastructure Ltd38as follows: 16. In the instant case, averment was made for the first time
 after 11 weeks of the settlement of claim and release of discharge
 voucher in the petition filed by the respondent seeking appointment
 of arbitrator of undue influence/coercion being used by the

 37 (2011) 12 SCC 349
 38 (2015) 2 SCC 424 O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 38 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 appellant in signing the papers on dotted lines is reproduced as
 under: 7-2016 rescinded the purported discharge voucher as
 illegal and void as it was forced or coerced into signing
 the same in the face of extreme financial duress. The
 petitioner vide the said letter dated 27-7-2016 called upon
 the respondent to pay the balance amount of ₹ 2,92,12,401
 (Rupees two crores ninety-two lakhs twelve thousand four
 hundred and one only) on account of loss suffered by the
 petitioner as result of fire. The petitioner also claimed an
 interest @ 18% p.a. from the date of incident as well as on
 the paid amount till date of payment i.e. up to 6-7-2016." 17. It is true that there cannot be a rule of its kind that mere
 allegation of discharge voucher or no claim certificate being
 obtained by fraud/coercion/undue influence practised by other
 party in itself is sufficient for appointment of the arbitrator unless
 the claimant who alleges that execution of the discharge agreement
 or no claim certificate was obtained on account of
 fraud/coercion/undue influence practised by the other party is able
 to produce prima facie evidence to substantiate the same, the
 correctness thereof may be open for the Chief Justice/his Designate
 to look into this aspect to find out at least prima facie whether the
 dispute is bona fide and genuine in taking a decision to invoke Section 11(6) of the Act. 18. In the instant case, the facts are not in dispute that for the
 two incidents of fire on 25-9-2013 and 25-10-2013, the appellant
 Company based on the Surveyor's report sent emails on 5-5-2016
 and 24-6-2016 for settlement of the claims for both the fires dated
 25-9-2013 and 25-10-2013 which was responded by the respondent
 through email on the same date itself providing all the necessary O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 39 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 information to the regional office of the Company and also issued
 the discharge voucher in full and final settlement with accord and
 satisfaction. Thereafter, on 12-7-2016, the respondent desired
 certain information with details, that too was furnished and for the
 first time on 27-7-2016, it took a U-turn and raised a voice of
 undue influence/coercion being used by the appellant stating that it
 being in financial distress was left with no option than to proceed
 to sign on the dotted lines. As observed, the phrase in itself is not
 sufficient unless there is a prima facie evidence to establish the
 allegation of coercion/undue influence, which is completely
 missing in the instant case. 19. In the given facts and circumstances, we are satisfied that
 the discharge and signing the letter of subrogation was not because
 of any undue influence or coercion as being claimed by the
 respondent and we find no difficulty to hold that upon execution of
 the letter of subrogation, the claim was settled with due accord and
 satisfaction leaving no arbitral dispute to be examined by an
 arbitrator to be appointed under Section 11(6) of the Act." 72. Thus, the Supreme Court, founds on facts, that the plea of
 coercion and duress was not established by Antique. UOI v Parmar Construction Company39 73. The issue in Parmar Construction, rendered a day after
 Antique Art Exports, was the same, viz. whether the arbitration
 agreement between the parties stood discharged on acceptance of the
 amount and signing of no claim/discharge certificate. However, in this
 case, on facts, the Supreme Court found that an arbitrable issue had
 been raised by the contractor and that the circumstances justified an
 examination of whether the discharge voucher had been provided
 under duress or coercion. 74. The petitioner UOI awarded a contract for construction of
 office space to the respondent. The measurement, by the UOI, of the
 work undertaken, was accepted by the respondent Parmar
 Construction Limited40 under protest. However, when the UOI failed
 to clear the final bill raised by Parmar, Parmar scored out the words
 "under protest" and signed a NCC. 75. Thereafter, the Parmar addressed a notice to the UOI to appoint
 an Arbitrator to resolve the disputes /differences which had arisen. On
 the UOI failing to do so, Parmar approached the High Court under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act. The High Court observed that the mere
 furnishing of a NCC did not divest Parmar of the right to seek
 reference of the disputes to arbitration. Accordingly, the High Court
 referred the disputes to arbitration. 76. The Supreme Court, in appeal, set aside the decision, while
 ruling that the High Court had not followed the proper procedure in
 appointing the arbitrator - which is not an issue which concerns us. 77. The controversy before the Supreme Court was noted, in para
 29 of the report, as whether, after furnishing of no claim certificate
 and the receipt of payment of final bills as submitted by the
 contractor, any arbitrable dispute still subsisted between the parties, or
 the contract stood discharged. 78. Thereafter, the Supreme Court observed thus regarding the
 legal position which applied : (Emphasis supplied) O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 42 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55 79. The rest of the decision pertains to issues which do not concern
 the controversy at hand. The sequitur 80. Thus, the thread that runs through the above decisions is that
 submission or tendering of a final discharge voucher, or a no claim
 certificate, by the contractor to the employer, is not determinative of
 the dispute between them. It is always open to the contractor to
 establish that the discharge voucher or NCC was provided under
 duress, coercion or economic compulsion. It is only where no such
 factors exist and the discharge voucher, or NCC, is found to have been
 tendered voluntarily that the contractor would not be permitted to
 resile therefrom and raise a belated claim. The Court - or the
 arbitrator - is required to take all factors into consideration while
 arriving at a decision as to whether the discharge voucher or NCC
 had, or had not, been voluntarily tendered. While examining the
 aspect of economic duress, the Court, or the Arbitrator, can take into
 account the fact that the bills of the contractor may have remained
 unpaid, or that the payment, which was certified by the contractor as
 being in full and final settlement of his claims, was actually made
 after the NCC was issued. Such factors would go to indicate that the
 NCC was not voluntarily tendered. 81. While examining the impact of the decisions cited earlier, on
 the issue in controversy, one distinction has to be borne in mind. Most
 of the decisions, except Ambica Constructions, relate to the issue of
 whether the dispute ought, or ought not, to have been referred to
 arbitration. The appeal to the Supreme Court arose out of a decision of
 the High Court either referring the disputes to arbitration or refusing
 to refer the dispute under Section 11 of the 1996 Act. Ambica
 Constructions is the only case in which the controversy arose out of
 an arbitral award in a Section 34 challenge - as in the present case. It
 is important to note this distinction for the simple reason that the
 scope of enquiry by the Court under Section 11 and under Section 34
 is radically different. Even at the time of rendition of the above
 decisions, the Section 11 Court was only required to satisfy itself as to
 whether there existed an arbitration agreement and whether there
 existed an arbitrable dispute. With the recent decision in SBI General
 Insurance, the Section 11(6) Court is not entitled to enquire into the
 latter aspect and has to satisfy itself by examining whether there exists
 an arbitration agreement between the parties. Even at the time of the
 rendition of the decisions cited supra, which was in the pre-SBI
 General Insurance era, the Court was only concerned with whether
 an arbitrable dispute existed. The decisions hold that if there was any
 scope for enquiring into whether the NCC or discharge voucher had
 been furnished under duress or coercion, then irrespective of the
 merits of the challenge, the dispute had to be referred to arbitration.
 Where however, the challenge was found to be a complete after-
 thought with no supportive material whatsoever to indicate that there
 was any economic duress or coercion which vitiated the NCC or O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 44 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 discharge voucher, the Court could refuse to refer the disputes to
 arbitration. 82. Which brings us to the second aspect. We are, however, in the
 present case, not at the Section 11 stage. The disputes stand referred
 and an arbitral award stands rendered. The challenge before this Court
 is a challenge under Section 34 to the arbitral award. The limits of
 Section 34 jurisdiction are well known. The issue of whether the facts
 before the Arbitral Tribunal made out a case of economic duress,
 coercion or compulsion, under which the NCC was furnished by the
 respondent, was clearly a question of fact. The finding of the Arbitral
 Tribunal in that regard is also a finding of fact. The scope of
 interference by the Court under Section 34 of the 1996 Act, with
 findings of fact rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal, is all but
 completely foreclosed. It is only where the "finding of fact is arrived
 at by ignoring or excluding relevant material or by taking into
 consideration irrelevant material or if the finding so outrageously
 defies logic as to suffer from the vice of irrationality incurring the
 blame of being perverse", then, the finding, merits intervention under
 Section 34 as being "perverse".41

 Applying the above principles 83. When one applies the above principles to the present case, it is
 obvious that no scope for interference with the decision of the learned
 Arbitrator on the plea of accord and satisfaction can be said to exist. 41 Associate Builders v DDA , (2015) 3 SCC 49; Konkan Railway Corporation v Chenab Bridge Project O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 45 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By :AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 The learned Arbitrator has held that the measurements recorded in the
 Measurement Books did not include the items for which the claims
 were raised during execution of the contract. The NCC was undated
 and on a routine pre-printed form. Most importantly, the final bill,
 regarding which the NCC had been issued, was itself raised only after
 the NCC was submitted. The NCC was submitted on 11 October
 2003, the final bill was raised on 13 October 2003 and was paid on 3
 November 2003. The amount in relation to which the NCC was issued
 was substantially less than the amount covered by the final bill. 84. In these circumstances, the decision of the learned Arbitrator
 that the submission of the NCC was under economic pressure and
 coercion, and necessitated because of withholding of the processing
 and payment of the petitioner's bills, cannot be said to suffer from any
 error of perception much less can it be said to be perverse or shocking
 to the conscience of the Court. At the very least, it is a plausible
 view, on the facts which were before the learned Arbitrator. By no
 stretch of imagination can it be characterised as perverse. 85. That being so, the finding being purely be of fact, this Court
 does not deem it appropriate to interfere therewith under Section 34 of
 the 1996 Act. 86. The first ground of challenge raised by Mr. Tiwari, therefore,
 fails. 87. On the aspect of interest, the law is, unfortunately, settled
 against the respondent. Clause 16(2) of the GCC specifically
 proscribes payment of interest on earnest money or security deposit or
 any amounts payable to the contractor under the contract. The
 Supreme Court has authoritatively laid down the law in this regard in UOI v Manraj Enterprises42 . That case dealt with the very same
 clause 16(2) of the GCC, with which we are concerned. The sole
 argument raised by the respondent, to counter Mr. Tiwari's
 submission that the learned Arbitrator, could not have awarded
 interest, is that the words "or any other amounts payable to the
 contractor under the contract" have to be read ejusdem generis with
 the words "earnest money deposit" and "security deposit". Thus read,
 interest on damages which are awarded by the Arbitrator would not
 fall within the proscription of Clause 16(2). 88. Precisely this argument was raised before the Supreme Court in
 Manraj Enterprises and negatived. The Supreme Court held that the
 ejusdem generis doctrine has no application in such a case. Paras 12
 and 13 of the report in Manraj Enterprises, which are dispositive of
 the issue, may be reproduced: cannot be read in conjunction with "earnest money deposit" or
 "security deposit" by applying the principle of ejusdem generis.
 The expression "amounts payable to the contractor under the
 contract" has to be read independently and disjunctively to earnest
 money deposit and security deposit as the word used is "or" and
 not "and" between "earnest money deposit", "security deposit" and
 "amounts payable to the contractor under the contract". Therefore,
 the principle of ejusdem generis is not applicable in the present
 case. 12.2. On the principle of ejusdem generis, this Court in Jaiprakash
 Associates Ltd v Tehri Hydro Development Corpn. (India) Ltd.43 ,
 in paras 22 and 23, has observed and held as under : (SCC pp. 802- 803)
 "22. Insofar as argument based on the principle of ejusdem
 generis is concerned, the Division Bench has held that that
 is not applicable in the present case. We find that it is
 rightly so held. Ejusdem generis is the rule of construction.
 The High Court has negated this argument in the following
 manner : (Jaiprakash Associates)
 '18. The rule of ejusdem generis guides us that
 where two or more words or phrases which are
 susceptible of analogous meaning are coupled
 together, a noscitur a sociis, they are to be
 understood to mean in their cognate sense and take
 colour from each other but only if there is a distinct
 genus or a category. Where this is lacking i.e. unless
 there is a category, the rule cannot apply.'

 As rightly held, the rule of ejusdem generis would be applied only
 if there is distinct genus or a category, which is lacking in the
 instant case. This rule is applicable when particular words
 pertaining to a clause, category or genus are followed by general
 words. In such a situation, the general words are construed as
 limited to things of same kind as those specified. In that sense, this
 rule reflects an attempt 'to reconcile incompatibility between the
 specific and general words in view of the other rules of
 interpretation that all words in a statute are given effect, if possible,
 that a statute is to be construed as a whole and that no words in a

 43 (2019) 17 SCC 786 O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 48 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 statute were presumed to be superfluous'. [See Lokmat
 Newspapers (P) Ltd v Shankarprasad44 . 23. In fact, construing the similar clause, this Court
 in BHEL v Globe Hi-Fabs Ltd.45 has held that rule of
 ejusdem generis, is not applicable inasmuch as : So a narrow construction on the basis of ejusdem generis
 rule may have to give way to a broader construction to give
 effect to the intention of Parliament by adopting a
 purposive construction. ***** 15. A word of caution is here necessary. The fact that the ejusdem
 generis rule is not applicable does not necessarily mean that the
 prima facie wide meaning of the word "other" or similar general
 words cannot be restricted if the language or the context and the
 policy of the Act demand a restricted construction. In the
 expression "defect of jurisdiction or other cause of a like nature" as
 they occur in Section 14(1) of the Limitation Act the generality of
 the words "other cause" is cut down expressly by the words "of a
 like nature", though the rule of ejusdem generis is strictly not
 applicable as mention of a single species "defect of jurisdiction" 16. In the present case, we noticed that the clause barring
 interest is very widely worded. It uses the words "any
 amount due to the contractor by the employer". In our
 opinion, these words cannot be read as ejusdem generis
 along with the earlier words "earnest money" or "security
 deposit". 13. Further, heavy reliance is placed on the decision of this Court
 in Union of India v. Pradeep Vinod Construction Co.47 , by the
 learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent. The same
 shall not be applicable for the reason that the said decision is by a
 two-Judge Bench and the contrary view taken by this Court in Union of India v. Bright Power Projects (India) (P) Ltd.48 , is by a
 three-Judge Bench. Also, in Pradeep Vinod Construction, this
 Court has not considered the binding decision of this Court
 in Bright Power Projects (India) (P) Ltd., which is by a Bench of
 three Judges. Even otherwise, the same is prior to the decision of
 this Court in Tehri Hydro Development Corpn., and the said
 subsequent decision of this Court is also a three-Judge Bench
 decision. Moreover, in Pradeep Vinod Construction Co., though in
 Clause 16(2), the expression used is "or amounts payable to the
 contractor under the contract", this Court has only considered the
 non-award of interest on earnest money and security deposit. In
 any case, in view of the subsequent decisions of this Court, referred
 to hereinabove and in view of Clause 16(2) of the GCC, the
 arbitrator could not have awarded the interest, pendente lite or

 47 (2021) 20 SCC 650
 48 2015) 9 SCC 695 O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 50 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 future interest on the amount due and payable to the contractor
 under the contract in the instant case." 89. The award of interest, by the learned Arbitrator, in the present
 case is, therefore, clearly unsustainable. The Result 90. In the result, the impugned award is liable to the upheld to the
 extent it awards the principal amount of damages to the respondent,
 but cannot sustain to the extent it awards interest on the said amount,
 whether pre reference, pendente lite or future. 91. Though, the Supreme Court has, in NHAI v M. Hakeem49 held
 that a Court cannot modify an arbitral award and can only either
 uphold the award or set it aside, this judgment has subsequently been
 held, by the Division Bench of this Court in NHAI v GMR
 Hyderabad Vijayawada Expressways Ltd50 not to apply where an
 award is in severable parts. This Court has held, in the said decision ,
 that, where parts of the award are severable, it is open to a Court to set
 aside one part and uphold the other. Of course, the Court cannot partly
 set aside or uphold any one indivisible part of the award. 92. Resultantly, in upholding the impugned award to the extent of
 the principal amount awarded to the respondent, even while setting

 49 (2021) 9 SCC 1
 50 2024 SCC OnLine Del 3344 O.M.P. 26/2009 Signature Not Verified Page 51 of 52 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT Digitally Signed
KUMAR By:CHANDRASHEKHARAN
 HARI SHANKAR
Signing Date:26.09.2024 Signing Date:26.09.2024
15:16:43 15:15:55
 aside the award of interest, this Court is not infracting the law laid
 down in M. Hakeem. Conclusion 93. In view of the aforesaid, this Court upholds the impugned
 award dated 17 October 2008 except to the extent it awards interest to
 the respondent. To the extent of the award of interest to the
 respondent, the award is set aside. 94. The petition is thus partly allowed. C. HARI SHANKAR, J.