Petitioner being the accused has preferred this Criminal

Revisional application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, 1973 seeking quashing of the proceedings being G.R. Case

No. 1246/2021 arising out of Cyber Crime Police Station Case No.

2/2021 dated 06.05.2021 under Sections 504 / 505(1)(b) / 120B of the

Indian Penal Code, 1860 now pending before the Court of the Learned

Chief Judicial Magistrate, Purba Medinipur at Tamluk. 2. The factual matrix of the instant case is as under: 3. Mr Majumder, learned counsel for the Petitioner submitted

that the First Information Report has been registered against the

Petitioner under Sections 504 / 505(1)(b) / 120B of the Indian Penal

Code, 1860 though the offences are not at all attracted for allegations

as alleged by the Opposite Party No. 2. Furthermore, such alleged

offences are non-cognizable in nature. In such cases, it is mandate of

the law that permission is required to be obtained from the concerned

Magistrate for the investigation. Without such order, Police

Authorities are not empowered to proceed with to investigate of the

case. No direction or order has been passed by the Learned

Magistrate under Section 155(2) of the CrPC. The Police Authority

has initiated the investigation against the Petitioner without valid

order or authority, which exposes the political vendetta and spiteful

demeanour of the Investigating Agency, who are allegedly acting on

the instructions of the Ruling Party. Such illegal proceedings are

required to be quashed for the ends of justice otherwise it would be

great injustice to the Petitioner. To bolster his contention, the learned

counsel has placed reliance of judgments passed in the cases of Bilal 5 Ahmed Kaloo v. State of A.P.1 and State of Haryana and Others

 v. Bhajan Lal and Others2 . SUBMISSION ON BEHALF OF THE STATE: 4. Mr. De, learned advocate representing the State has

 produced the Case Diary. Learned advocate opposed the prayer of the

 petitioner and further submitted that the alleged offences are

 cognizable in nature. The Petitioner tried to disrupt the local peace

 and integrity amongst the people. The Petitioner had posted via his

 twitter account that few unknown ladies are being assaulted

 physically by Ruling Party Workers and the incident reportedly

 happened at Kendamari area even though it was a fake and malicious

 post. The intention of the Petitioner was to disrupt the peace in the

 locality. During investigation, the Investigating Officer collected such

 post from the Twitter handle. Two CD drives containing the

 downloaded videos from Twitter, multiple screenshots were taken

 while video was playing and a screen recording was made of

 downloading and copying process of all data from computer of Cyber

 Crime PS to CD drive seized under proper seizure list. The

 Investigation is still pending as such the instant Criminal Revisional

 application has no merit and is liable to be dismissed. 1 (1997) 7 Supreme Court Cases 431; 1992 Supp (1) Supreme Court cases 335. DISCUSSIONS AND FINDINGS OF THIS COURT: 5. Considering the rival contentions and submissions made by

the learned counsels appearing for the parties and on careful perusal

of the Case Diary, it appears on the basis of Written Complaint of

One Uttam Pramanik, Son of Late Joydeb of Kendamari (GP Member)

P.S. - Nandigram to the effect that since 03.05.2021 at 22.38 hrs , it

has been repeatedly observed that posts were made by the Petitioner

under the name of Twitter account of 'Kailash Vijayvargiya' that few

unknown women are being assaulted physically and also humiliated

by two unknown males and the incident reportedly took place at

Kendamari area. Complainant believed that no such incident

occurred in reality in such area and it was a fake and malicious post

solely to disturb the local peace and harmony amongst people in the

locality. On the basis of written complaint, a First Information Report

was registered against the Petitioner under Sections

504 / 505(1)(b) / 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 for investigation. 6. During investigation, the Investigating Officer collected such

post from Twitter handle. Two CD drives containing downloaded video

from Twitter, multiple screenshots were taken while video was played

and screen recording was made of downloading and copying process

of all data from computer of Cyber-Crime PS to CD drive seized under

proper seizure list. Statements of the witnesses were recorded under 7 section 161 of the CrPC but no Charge Sheet has been submitted till

date by the Investigating Officer. On the other hand, it was raised by

the Petitioner that Sections 504 / 505(1)(b) / 120B of the Indian Penal

Code, 1860 are registered against the petitioner herein though he is

innocent. Furthermore, alleged offences, as alleged, are non-

cognizable in nature. In such case, investigation cannot be initiated

without order of the Learned Magistrate. 7. It would be appropriate to refer the Sections 504 / 505 (1) (b)/120B of the Indian Penal Code , 1860 for ready reference and to

understand the situation of the present case. Section 504 of the Indian Penal Code read as follows: intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to
 any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that
 such provocation will cause him to break the public
 peace, or to commit any other offence, shall be
 punished with imprisonment of either description for a
 term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or
 with both." Section 505 (1) (b) of the Indian Penal Code read as follows: shall be punished with imprisonment which may
extend to three years, or with fine, or with both." Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code read as under: 8. The aforesaid Sections are non-cognizable in nature as per

column 4 of the First Schedule of the Indian Penal Code , 1860. In

such situation, what steps are required to be followed by the Police

Authority are clearly indicated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of State of Haryana and Others v. Bhajan Lal and Others in

Paragraphs 31 to 34. and "credible information" are used. Evidently, the non-
qualification of the word "information" in Section 154(1) unlike in Section 41(1)(a) and (g) of the Code may be for
the reason that the police officer should not refuse to
record an information relating to the commission of a
cognizable offence and to register a case thereon on the
ground that he is not satisfied with the reasonableness
or credibility of the information. In other words,
'reasonableness' or 'credibility' of the said information is
not a condition precedent for registration of a case. A
comparison of the present Section 154 with those of the
earlier Codes will indicate that the legislature had
purposely thought it fit to employ only the word 11 "information" without qualifying the said word. Section
139 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1861 (Act 25 of
1861) passed by the Legislative Council of India read
that 'every complaint or information' preferred to an
officer in charge of a police station should be reduced
into writing which provision was subsequently modified
by Section 112 of the Code of 1872 (Act 10 of 1872)
which thereafter read that 'every complaint' preferred to
an officer in charge of a police station shall be reduced
in writing. The word 'complaint' which occurred in
previous two Codes of 1861 and 1872 was deleted and
in that place the word 'information' was used in the
Codes of 1882 and 1898 which word is now used in Sections 154 , 155 , 157 and 190(c) of the present Code
of 1973 (Act 2 of 1974). An overall reading of all the
Codes makes it clear that the condition which is sine
qua non for recording a first information report is that
there must be an information and that information must
disclose a cognizable offence. 33. It is, therefore, manifestly clear that if any
information disclosing a cognizable offence is laid before
an officer in charge of a police station satisfying the
requirements of Section 154(1) of the Code, the said
police officer has no other option except to enter the
substance thereof in the prescribed form, that is to say,
to register a case on the basis of such information. 12 34. In this connection, it may be noted that though a
 police officer cannot investigate a non-cognizable offence
 on his own as in the case of cognizable offence, he can
 investigate a non-cognizable offence under the order of a
 Magistrate having power to try such non-cognizable
 case or commit the same for trial within the terms under Section 155(2) of the Code but subject to Section 155(3) of the Code. Further, under the newly introduced sub-
 section (4) to Section 155 , where a case relates to two
 offences of which at least one is cognizable, the case
 shall be deemed to be a cognizable case
 notwithstanding that the other offences are non-
 cognizable and, therefore, under such circumstances the
 police officer can investigate such offences with the
 same powers as he has while investigating a cognizable
 offence." 9. Accordingly, all Sections mentioned in the instant case or

started against the Petitioner are non-cognizable in nature. In such

situation, the instant case in hand, falls squarely under the category

(4) as mentioned in the celebrated judgment of Hon'ble Supreme

Court passed in the case of State of Haryana and Others Vs.

Bhajan Lal and Others in Paragraph 102 as under: cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a
 police officer without an order of a Magistrate as
 contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code.

 (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint
 are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis
 of which no prudent person can ever reach a just
 conclusion that there is sufficient ground for
 proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in
 any of the provisions of the Code or the Act concerned
 (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to
 the institution and continuance of the proceedings
 and/or where there is a specific provision in the Code
 or the Act concerned, providing efficacious redress for
 the grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly
 attended with mala fide and/or where the proceeding
 is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for
 wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view
 to spite him due to private and personal grudge." 10. In the light of above discussion and upon perusal of the

Judgments referred by the learned counsel for the petitioner and the

legal Maxim "Sublato Fundamento Cadit Opus" meaning thereby

"initial action by the Police Authority without following the provision

as laid down in the Criminal Procedure Code is bad, all subsequent 15 actions are bad" are squarely applicable in the present case and if

proceeding continued in such condition, it would amount to an abuse

of process of law and to secure the ends of justice, this Court can

exercise its inherent power or jurisdiction under Section 482 of the

CrPC corresponding to Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarik

Suraksha Sanhita (BNSS), 2023 to quash the aforesaid proceeding. 11. Accordingly, C.R.R. 2043 of 2021 is, thus, allowed. CRAN

1 of 2021 and connected application, if any, is also, thus, disposed

of. 12. Consequently, proceedings being G.R. Case No. 1246/2021

arising out of Cyber Crime Police Station Case No. 2/2021 dated

06.05.2021 under Sections 504 / 505(1)(b) / 120B of the Indian Penal

Code now pending before the Court of the Learned Chief Judicial

Magistrate, Purba Medinipur at Tamluk is hereby quashed insofar as

the present Petitioner is concerned. 13. Case Diary, if any, is to be returned to the learned Counsel

for the State. 14. Interim order, if any, stands vacated. 15. Let a copy of this judgment be sent to the learned Court

below for information. 16. Parties will act on the server copies of this judgment

uploaded on the official website of this Court. 17. Urgent photostat certified copy of this judgment, if applied

for, is to be given as expeditiously to the parties on compliance of all

legal formalities. (Ajay Kumar Gupta, J)

P. Adak (P.A.)