The issue involved in all these criminal original petitions is

 common and hence, they are taken up together, heard and disposed of

 by this common order. 2. The brief facts leading to filing of these petitions are stated as

 hereunder : iffis gpdhapy; tpl;Lf; fOt Ntz;Lk;. mrpq;fk; tUfpwhh;fs;. ,e;j ngz;Zk; mjw;F tpjptpyf;fy;y
 vd;gJ njhpfpwJ. gy;fiyf; fofq;fis tplTk; mjpf mstpy; nrf;Rty; mg;a+]; elg;gJ
 kPbahf;fspy; jhd;. nghpa Ml;fSld; gLf;fhky; mth;fshy; xU hpNghh;luhfNth nra;jp
 thrpg;gtuhfNth Mfp tpl KbahJ vd;gJ rkPgj;jpa
 gy Gfhh;fs; %yk; ntspNa te;j mrpq;fk;. ,e;j
 nkhfufl;ilfs;jhd; fth;diu Nfs;tp Nfl;f fpsk;gp
 tpLfpwhh;fs;. jkpofj;jpd; kpff; Nftykhd <dkhd
 mrpq;fkhd mUtUg;ghd Mghrkhd ,ope;j <d
 gpwtpfs; mjd; nghUk;ghyhd kPbah Ml;fNs. xU
 rpy tpjp tpyf;Ffs; ,Uf;fpwhh;fs;. ehd; mth;fis 4/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases

 kl;LNk kjpf;fpNwd;. kw;wgb nghJthf jkpofj;jpd;
 xl;L nkhj;j kPbahTNk fphpkpdy;fspd; nghWf;fpfspd;
 g;shf;nkapy; Ngh;topfspd; gpbfspy; rpf;fp rPuope;J
 nfhz;bUf;fpd;wd." (iii) Pursuant to that, a complaint came to be given before the

 Commissioner of Police, Chennai to take action against the petitioner

 for having posted such a derogatory comment in his facebook account.

 Accordingly, a first information report was registered in Cr.No.148 of

 2018 for offences under Sections 504 , 505(1)(c) and 509 of the Indian

 Penal Code (hereinafter called the IPC ) and Section 4 of the Tamil

 Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 2002 on the file of the

 Inspector of Police, Cyber Crime Cell, Central Crime Branch, Chennai,

 who is none other than the first respondent in Crl.O.P.No.6211 of

 2021. The first information report was investigated by the concerned

 Inspector of Police and on completion of the investigation, a final

 report came to be filed before the Assistant Sessions Court, Additional

 Special Court for Trial of Cases relating to MPs and MLAs, Singaravelar

 Maligai, Chennai-1 (for short, the Special Court) in C.C.No.62 of 2019

 and it has been put to challenge by the petitioner in Crl.O.P.No.6211 of

 2021. (iv) For the same cause of action, private complaints were filed 5/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases

 against the petitioner in various parts of Tamil Nadu. The complaint

 filed before the Judicial Magistrate No.2, Karur, which was taken on file

 in C.C.No.223 of 2018, has been put to challenge in Crl.O.P.(MD)

 No.12163 of 2018. The complaint filed before the Judicial Magistrate

 No.1, Tirunelveli, which was taken on file in C.C.No.154 of 2018, has

 been challenged in Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018. Similarly, The

 complaint filed before the Judicial Magistrate, Ambattur, which was

 taken on file in S.T.C.No.276 of 2018, has been put to challenge in

 Crl.O.P.No.5099 of 2019. 3. Heard the respective learned counsel appearing for the

 petitioner, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for the

 State and the respective learned counsel appearing for the

 complainants in Crl.O.P.(MD) Nos.11494 and 12163 of 2018 and

 Crl.O.P.No.5099 of 2019. Though the complainant/second respondent

 in Crl.O.P.No.6211 of 2021 was served and his name printed in the

 cause list, he does not choose to appear either in person or through a

 counsel. 4. The petitioner had taken a stand to the effect that he was not 6/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases

 aware of the contents of the message that was sent to him by one

 Mr.Thirumalai Sa (a) Thirumalai Sadagopan from Bay Area, California,

 U.S.A., who was the author of the message, that he had merely

 forwarded the same from his facebook account, that immediately after

 coming to know of the derogatory remarks contained in the message,

 he removed the contents within a couple of hours on the same day i.e.

 19.4.2018 and that thereafter, he followed it up with a letter dated

 20.4.2018 whereby he tendered an unconditional apology to the

 concerned woman journalist and also to the Press and Media in Tamil

 Nadu at large. The petitioner also gave an interview in a television

 channel in Tamil Nadu expressing his unconditional apology and

 making it clear that he had inadvertently forwarded the message

 without reading its contents. The petitioner also reiterated the fact that

 he has highest respect for the Press and for women journalists and

 that he never intended to make any such derogatory remark against

 the Press. 5. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted

 that during the pendency of these criminal original petitions, the

 petitioner was directed by this Court to file an affidavit once again 7/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases

 tendering apology and accordingly, he filed an affidavit before this

 Court on 08.4.2022. The petitioner was also directed to attend for an

 enquiry before the Inspector of Police, Cyber Crime Cell, Central Crime

 Branch, Chennai, who, when the petitioner attended the enquiry, gave

 a questionnaire containing 22 questions and the petitioner answered

 all those questions clearly explaining that he was not the author of the

 message and that he had merely forwarded the message that was

 received from the said Mr.Thirumalai Sa (a) Thirumalai Sadagopan. In

 the light of the above stand taken by the petitioner, the learned

 counsel appearing for the petitioner seek to quash the criminal

 proceedings initiated against him based on the alleged derogatory

 message forwarded from the facebook account of the petitioner. 6. This Court has carefully considered the submissions made by

 the respective learned counsel on either side and perused the

 materials available on record. 7. The petitioner is an educated person and is a well known

 figure in the State of Tamil Nadu. He had also served as a Member of

 the Legislative Assembly during the years 2006-2011. The petitioner 8/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases

 has a fan following and whatever is done or said by the petitioner has

 an impact. This important fact must be borne in mind while deciding

 these matters. 8. A careful reading of the contents of the message that was

 forwarded from the facebook account of the petitioner on 19.4.2018,

 showcases women journalists in a poor light. This Court is very

 hesitant to even translate the message that was forwarded by the

 petitioner since, to say the least, it is despicable. The contents are

 highly derogatory against the Press as a whole in Tamil Nadu. 9. There is no dispute with regard to the fact that the derogatory

 message was forwarded from the facebook account of the petitioner.

 The petitioner had taken a stand that he was not the author of the

 message and that he received the message from the said

 Mr.Thirumalai Sa (a) Thirumalai Sadagopan from U.S.A., and

 forwarded the same inadvertently without properly reading the

 message. 9/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases 10. We live in an era where social media has virtually taken over

 the lives of every individual in the world. A message sent/forwarded in

 the social media can reach the nook and corner of the world in no

 time. The ability to communicate is one of the main reasons for the

 world being ruled by human beings. We are now suffering from a

 virtual information diarrhoea where everyone is bombarded with

 messages. Hence, what is exchanged as a message in the social

 media, can have a very big influence within a short time. That is the

 reason as to why a person must exercise social responsibility while

 creating or forwarding a message. This is more so when the person

 concerned, by virtue of his position, can really influence the minds of

 the general public. A message sent/forwarded becomes a permanent

 evidence and it is almost impossible to wriggle out of the consequence

 that falls out by sending or forwarding a message. 11. Considering the stature of the petitioner, he is expected to

 be more responsible while giving statements or forwarding messages.

 The petitioner himself had admitted that he has nearly 5000 followers

 for his facebook account. This means that the messages that are sent/

 forwarded by the petitioner will multiply, if those followers, in turn, 10/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases

 keep forwarding those messages to others. 12. The stature of a person is directly proportional to what he

 communicates to the society and its consequences. Therefore, an

 information or a message sent by a normal citizen and the same

 information/message sent by a person with a stature having followers

 has a lot of difference. In the former, such message or information

 may not have an impact on the society. However, when it comes from

 a person with stature, its repercussions will be higher. In view of the

 same, such a person carries a lot of responsibility in what he says and

 does considering the impact it will have on the society or a particular

 group of persons, as the case may be. 13. Hence, a case of this nature cannot be decided by applying

 the same yardstick to everyone. The more a person is popular in the

 society, he also carries more responsibility in what he conveys to the

 society. The petitioner, in the instant case, falls under the category of

 a person of high stature with many followers and he ought to have

 exercised more caution before forwarding the message from his

 facebook account. If such a caution has been thrown to the winds and 11/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases

 as a result, it has had a very serious impact, the petitioner has to

 necessarily face it and cannot try to run away from the consequences

 by merely tendering an unconditional apology. 14. A message that is sent or forwarded in the social media is

 like an arrow, which has already been shot from the bow. Till that

 message remains with the sender, it is within his control. Once it is

 sent, it is like the arrow, which has already been shot and the sender

 of the message must take the ownership for the consequences of the

 damage done by that arrow (message). Once the damage is done, it

 will become very difficult to wriggle out of the same by issuing an

 apology statement. 15. Every user of the social media must bear this in mind and

 must be extremely careful before sending or forwarding a message to

 others. There is a famous saying. Three things cannot be retrieved : https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases 16. A person, who forwards the message, must be construed to

 acknowledge the contents of the message and that is the main reason

 as to why he forwards that message to others. In other words, the

 recipient of a message, who wants others also to know about that

 message, forwards that message to others. Once that is done, he has

 to take the responsibility for having forwarded the message to others.

 A person, who gets a dopamine high by looking at the likes for the

 message forwarded by him, must also be equally prepared to face the

 consequence, if that message has a derogatory content. 17. The final report filed in Cr.No.148 of 2018 on the file of the

 Inspector of Police, Cyber Crime Cell, Central Crime Branch, Chennai

 has been taken cognizance by the Special Court for various offences

 including the one under Section 504 of the IPC. 18. Section 504 of the IPC deals with intentional insult with

 intent to provoke breach of peace. To attract this provision, the

 following ingredients must be satisfied and they are as follows : https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases (c) he thereby caused provocation to some person; and (d) he intended or knew it to be likely that the provocation will

 cause him to break public peace or commit any other offence. 19. In the instant case, the message that was forwarded by the

 petitioner did cause insult to the journalists and more particularly the

 women journalists and it did provoke to break public peace since, after

 the message was circulated in the social media, there was a

 demonstration in front of the house of the petitioner and there was

 some violence. The same was pleaded by the petitioner in the quash

 petitions. Hence, prima facie, the offence under Section 504 of the IPC

 is made out. 20. The Special Court has also taken cognizance of the offence

 under Section 505(1)(c) of the IPC. This offence will be attracted

 where a person publishes or circulates a statement, which is likely to

 incite any class or community of persons to commit any offence

 against any other class or community. 14/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases 21. The message that was forwarded by the petitioner did induce

 commission of offence against public tranquillity and there was a hue

 and cry across the State immediately after the incident. Hence, the

 offence under Section 505(1)(c) of the IPC is also prima facie made

 out. 22. The Special Court has further taken cognizance of the

 offence under Section 509 of the IPC. There is no doubt in the mind of

 this Court that the offence under Section 509 of the IPC is prima facie

 made out considering the fact that the content of the message virtually

 outrages the modesty of a woman and exposes her very indecently. 23. The Special Court has additionally taken cognizance of the

 offence under Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of

 Women Act, 2002. 24. The message forwarded by the petitioner contains indecent

 and vitriolic attack on a particular woman and other women Press

 Reporters. Hence, prima facie, the offence under Section 4 of the

 Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 2002 is also 15/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases

 made out. 25. It is true that the petitioner removed the derogatory

 message from his facebook account even on the same day and he also

 apologized for having forwarded the message. These acts, by

 themselves, do not help the petitioner from facing the consequences

 for forwarding a derogatory message. An offence has already been

 committed and the petitioner cannot now escape from the offence by

 merely coming up with an apology statement subsequently. 26. In cases involving a dispute between two individuals, if

 immediately the offender regrets and tenders his apology for his act,

 the Court may consider acting upon the same. However, in the instant

 case, it is not a dispute between two individuals and the act of the

 petitioner has virtually painted the entire Press and more particularly

 the women Reporters with vulgar comments and when such a large

 body is affected due to the act of the petitioner, he cannot be let away

 just because he tendered an apology. If such an easy route is adopted,

 anyone can make such statements, cause damage, subsequently

 apologize for his act and get away from the action taken against him. 16/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases 27. In view of the same, the apology tendered and the

 explanation given by the petitioner to the effect that he had forwarded

 the message inadvertently cannot be acted upon and the criminal

 proceedings cannot be quashed on that ground. For the present, the

 intention of the petitioner can be gathered only from the contents of

 the message that was forwarded by the petitioner. The issue as to

 whether the petitioner had forwarded the message inadvertently or

 not, is a matter for evidence and such a defence has to be established

 by the petitioner only during the course of trial. Therefore, this Court

 does not find any ground to interfere with the criminal proceedings

 initiated against the petitioner. The defence taken by the petitioner has

 to be established only before the Special Court, which has to decide

 the same on appreciation of evidence. 28. The respective respondent in Crl.O.P.(MD) Nos.11494 and

 12163 of 2018 and Crl.O.P.No.5099 of 2019 filed private complaints

 against the petitioner on the ground that the petitioner defamed the

 entire Press in Tamil Nadu and particularly the women journalists.

 Hence, they are also prosecuting the petitioner mainly for the offence

 punishable under Section 500 of the IPC. 17/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases 29. Explanation 2 to Section 499 of the IPC makes it explicit that

 it will amount to defamation to make an imputation concerning a

 company or an association or collection of persons as such. Hence, if a

 well defined class is defamed, each and every member of that class

 can file a complaint. 30. Section 199 of the Criminal Procedure Code also provides

 that no Court shall take cognizance of defamation except upon a

 complaint made by 'some person aggrieved by the offence'. Where

 a well defined class is defamed, each and every member of that class

 will become an aggrieved person and he can file a complaint. The

 complainants/respective respondent in Crl.O.P.(MD) Nos.11494 and

 12163 of 2018 and Crl.O.P.No.5099 of 2019 claim to belong to the

 respective association working for the interest of the Press and Media.

 The issue as to how far they belong to the community of Press is a

 matter for evidence and it cannot be decided in quash petitions.

 Therefore, this Court does not find any ground to interfere with the

 private complaints initiated for defamation, which are the subject

 matter of challenge in Crl.O.P.(MD) Nos.11494 and 12163 of 2018

 and Crl.O.P.No.5099 of 2019 and the petitioner has to necessarily face 18/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases

 the proceedings and establish his defence. 31. A recent judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Kaushal

 Kishor Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh [reported in 2023 (4) SCC 1]

 resonates while deciding these cases. The Apex Court was dealing with

 a menace that adversely affects the equilibrium of this country namely

 hate speech. The Apex Court had gone into all the issues in detail and

 it will be relevant to extract paragraph 251 of the judgment as

 hereunder : 32. The Apex Court, in the said judgment , by considering the

 fact that the hate speech is going beyond the control and it has a

 deleterious effect on the society, had gone to the extent of directing

 suo motu registration of the first information report without waiting for

 someone to file a complaint. The Courts must start analysing cases,

 which have an adverse impact on the society with more seriousness.

 The cases in hand are one such type where this Court does not want to

 handle them with kid gloves. 33. The petitioner cannot be made to move from one court to

 another to face the proceedings based on the very same cause of

 action. Hence, this Court is inclined to transfer the proceedings

 challenged in Crl.O.P.(MD) Nos.11494 and 12163 of 2018 and Crl.O.P.

 No.5099 of 2019 to the file of the Special Court namely the Assistant

 Sessions Court, Additional Special Court for Trial of Cases relating to

 MPs and MLAs, Singaravelar Maligai, Chennai-1 to be simultaneously

 taken up along with C.C.No.62 of 2019. 20/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases 34. In the light of the above discussions, (a) the proceedings in (i) C.C.No.154 of 2018 on the file of the
 Judicial Magistrate No.1, Tirunelveli, (ii) C.C.No.223 of 2018 on the file of the
 Judicial Magistrate No.2, Karur and (iii) S.T.C.No.276 of 2018 on the file of
 the Judicial Magistrate, Ambattur
 are withdrawn and transferred to the file of the
 Special Court namely the Assistant Sessions
 Court, Additional Special Court for Trial of
 Cases relating to MPs and MLAs, Singaravelar
 Maligai, Chennai-1 to be simultaneously tried
 along with C.C.No.62 of 2019. (b) The findings rendered by this Court in
 this common order will not have any bearing
 on the Special Court while deciding the cases
 and the petitioner is entitled to raise all the
 grounds before the Special Court. The Special
 Court shall decide the cases on their own
 merits and in accordance with law. The Special
 Court shall try to expeditiously complete the
 trial and pass final orders in all the cases not
 later than six months from the date of receipt
 of a copy of this order. 21/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases (c) The case bundles in (i) C.C.No.154 of 2018 on the file of the
 Judicial Magistrate No.1, Tirunelveli, (ii) C.C.No.223 of 2018 on the file of the
 Judicial Magistrate No.2, Karur and (iii) S.T.C.No.276 of 2018 on the file of
 the Judicial Magistrate, Ambattur, which are
 transferred to the file of the Special Court,
 shall be immediately forwarded by the
 respective Courts to the Special Court so as to
 enable the expeditious disposal of all the cases. 35. In the result, all the above criminal original petitions are

 dismissed in the above terms. Consequently, all connected pending

 Crl.M.Ps. are also dismissed. 14.7.2023
 Index : Yes
 Neutral Citation : Yes
 Speaking Order : Yes

 RS 22/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494 of 2018
 etc. cases

 N.ANAND VENKATESH,J

 RS
 To 1.The Assistant Sessions Court, Additional Special Court for Trial of
 Cases relating to MPs and MLAs, Singaravelar Maligai, Chennai-1. 2.The Inspector of Police, Cyber Crime Cell, Central Crime
 Branch, No.132, Commissioner Office Building, EVK Sampath Road,
 Vepery, Periyamet, Chennai-7. 3.The Judicial Magistrate No.1, Tirunelveli. 4.The Judicial Magistrate No.2, Karur. 5.The Judicature Magistrate, Ambattur. 6.The Public Prosecutor, High Court, Madras. P.D.COMMON ORDER IN
 Crl.O.P.(MD) No.11494
 of 2018 etc. cases

 14.7.2023 23/23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis