With

 Civil Appeal No. 7301 of 2022

 With

 Civil Appeal No. 7302 of 2022

 With

 Civil Appeal No. 7303 of 2022

 With

 Civil Appeal No. 7304 of 2022

 With Signature Not Verified Civil Appeal No. 7305 of 2022 Digitally signed by Sanjay Kumar With Date: 2023.03.27 14:35:20 IST Reason: Civil Appeal No. 7306 of 2022 1 With Civil Appeal No. 7307 of 2022 And With Writ Petition No. 138 of 2022 2 JUDGMENT

Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI

A. Background .............................................................................................................. 4

B. Facts ......................................................................................................................... 5

C. Submissions ............................................................................................................ 10

D. Analysis .................................................................................................................. 15

 D.1 Regulatory Framework..................................................................................................... 15

 D.2 Audi Alteram Partem ....................................................................................................... 25

 D.3 No implied exclusion of audi alteram partem ................................................................... 39

 D.4 Challenge to constitutional validity .................................................................................. 48

E. Conclusion .............................................................................................................. 57 3 A. Background 1. The civil appeals arise out of a challenge to the Reserve Bank of India

 (Frauds Classification and Reporting by Commercial Banks and Select FIs)

 Directions 2016. 1 Issued by the Reserve Bank of India2, these directions

 were challenged before different High Courts primarily on the ground that

 no opportunity of being heard is envisaged to borrowers before classifying

 their accounts as fraudulent. The High Court of Telangana has held in the

 impugned judgment 3 that the principles of natural justice must be read into

 the provisions of the Master Directions on Frauds. The decision has been

 assailed by the RBI and lender banks through these civil appeals. 2. In this background the court has to consider whether the principles of

 natural justice should be read into the provisions of the Master Directions

 on Frauds. For the reasons to follow, we hold that the principles of natural

 justice, particularly the rule of audi alteram partem, has to be necessarily

 read into the Master Directions on Frauds to save it from the vice of

 arbitrariness. Since the classification of an account as fraud entails serious

 civil consequences for the borrower, the directions must be construed

 reasonably by reading into them the requirement of observing the

 principles of natural justice. 1 “Master Directions on Frauds”
2 “RBI” 3 Writ Petition No. 19102 of 2019 4 B. Facts

 I. SLP (C) No. 3931 of 2021; SLP (C) No. 4922 of 2021; SLP (C) No. 5056

 of 2021 3. B S Limited is a company engaged in the business of power transmission

 and distribution, passive telecom infrastructure, renewable energy, and

 mineral resources. It availed loans amounting to Rs. 1406 crores from

 various banks. The company failed to meet its payment obligations to

 lender banks, thereby defaulting in repayment of credit facilities. In

 accordance with the Master Directions on Frauds, all the lender banks

 formed a Joint Lenders Forum4 with State Bank of India as the lead bank. 4. The JLF declared the company’s assets as Non-Performing Assets 5 on 29

 August 2016. The lender banks decided to adopt the Sustainable

 Structuring of Stressed Assets Scheme 6 and suggested a forensic audit

 report and Techno Economic Viability 7 study in its meeting held on 11 July

 2016. Based on the conclusions of the forensic audit report, the JLF closed

 the issue stating that there were no irregularities. However, based on the

 TEV study it was concluded that the company was not eligible for the S4A

 scheme and requested it to submit an alternative plan for regularization of

 its account. In the meanwhile, IDBI Bank - one of the lender banks - red-

 flagged the account of the company. Additionally, proceedings under the
4 “JLF”
5 “NPA”
6 “S4A Scheme”
7 “TEV” 5 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 were also initiated against the

 company. On 15 February 2019, the JLF declared the account of the

 company as fraud by invoking Clause 2.2.1(g) of the Master Directions on

 Frauds. Subsequently, the Fraud Identification Committee 8 passed a

 resolution on 31 July 2019 identifying the company’s account as fraud. The

 company filed a writ petition challenging both the decision of the JLF dated

 15 February 2019 and the resolution of the FIC dated 31 July 2019 before

 the High Court of Telangana. 5. By a judgment dated 10 December 2020, a Division Bench of the High

 Court allowed the writ petition by holding that the principle of audi alteram

 partem ought to be read into Clauses 8.9.4 and 8.9.5 of the Master

 Directions on Frauds. The High Court further directed the lender banks: (i)

 to give an opportunity of a hearing to the borrowers after furnishing a copy

 of the forensic audit report; and (ii) to provide an opportunity of a personal

 hearing to the borrower before classifying their account as fraud. The

 judgment of the High Court was challenged in SLP (C) No. 3931 of 2021.

 On 15 April 2021, this Court, while issuing notice, partially stayed the

 directions issued by the Telangana High Court in the following terms: 6. The appellant is a company involved in the manufacture of edible oils, fats,

 rice and semolina products in the State of Telangana. From 2003 to 2015,

 the appellant availed of credit facilities to the tune of Rs. 675 crores from a

 consortium of banks led by the Andhra Bank (now merged with the Union

 Bank of India). The appellant was declared as an NPA on 14 May 2018

 with effect from 31 March 2018. Thereafter, the consortium of lenders in a

 meeting of the JLF decided to conduct a forensic audit of the appellant for

 the period till 31 March 2019. The appellant participated in the audit

 process and submitted all the information required by the auditor from time

 to time. In September 2019, the appellant learnt that its account has been

 declared as fraud by the Union Bank of India (erstwhile Andhra Bank).

 Aggrieved by that classification, the appellant filed a writ petition before the

 High Court of Telangana. The High Court declined to deal with the issues

 pertaining to the principles of natural justice and fair play considering the

 fact that they were pending before this Court in SLP (C) No. 3931 of 2021.

 By its judgment dated 22 December 2021, the High court dismissed the

 writ petitions. The court held that the appellant’s account was rightly

 classified as fraud because the forensic audit report contained adverse

 findings against the appellant. 7. On 24 January 2022, this Court, while issuing notice in SLP (C) No. 762 of

 2022, directed that the matter may not be reported to the Central Bureau of

 Investigation 9 for the time being. On 28 March 2022, this Court passed a

9 “CBI” 7 similar ad-interim order in SLP (C) No. 873 of 2022 and SLP (C) No. 1514

 of 2022. III. SLP (C) No. 2980 of 2022 8. The appellant is a promoter and director of Golden Jubilee Hotels Pvt

 Ltd. 10 GJHPL availed financial assistance from the respondent banks for

 the construction and development of a hotel in Hyderabad. GJHPL’s

 account was declared as NPA from 31 December 2015 because of its

 inability to service its debts to the respondent banks. At its meeting on 21

 April 2016, the JLF decided to carry out a special audit of the appellant’s

 company. Thereafter, the appellant participated in a series of meetings

 between the JLF and was consulted by the forensic auditor during the

 preparation of the audit report. Bank of Baroda red-flagged the appellant’s

 account on 03 May 2019 based on the observations in the forensic audit

 report. The appellant’s account was classified as fraud on 14 August 2019.

 A criminal complaint was also lodged with the CBI. The appellant came to

 know about the classification of their account as fraud in 2021, when they

 received a copy of the FIR. The appellant filed a writ petition before the

 High Court of Telangana challenging the validity of the Master Directions

 on Frauds. The High Court by its judgment dated 31 December 2021 held

 that no relief could be granted to the appellant on the issue of personal

 hearing since SLP (C) No. 3931 of 2021 was pending before this Court.

 The High Court also held that the appellant’s account was rightly classified

 as fraudulent in view of the adverse findings in the forensic audit report.
10 “GJHPL” 8 IV. Writ Petition (C) No. 138 of 2022 and SLP (C) No. 3388 of 2022 9. The appellant is one of the directors of a company called M/s Vimal Oil &

 Foods Limited. The said company availed of loan facilities from various

 financial institutions over a period of time. In 2015, the auditor of the

 respondent bank flagged certain irregularities in the accounts of the

 company. Based on a special audit, the respondent bank declared the

 account of the company as NPA on 30 September 2015. Thereafter, on 05

 July 2016, the company’s account was red-flagged by the respondent

 bank. In the meantime, the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process 11

 was initiated against the company on 19 December 2017 and the appellant

 was suspended as Managing Director of the company. Upon suspension,

 the appellant was not invited to attend the meetings of the JLF. The

 appellant allegedly learnt that the respondent bank had classified their

 account as fraud on 21 February 2018 though without any intimation.

 Further, based on a letter addressed by the respondent bank to the CBI,

 an FIR came to be registered against the appellant. The appellant alleges

 that they acquired knowledge about their account being classified as fraud

 and registration of the FIR only when a search was carried out at their

 residential premises in pursuance of the FIR. The appellant filed a Special

 Civil Application challenging the actions of the respondent bank, which was

 dismissed by the Single Judge of the High Court of Gujarat. The Division

 Bench partly allowed a Letters Patent Appeal by its judgment dated 23

 December 2021 by permitting the appellant to address a representation to

11 “CIRP” 9 the respondent bank but declined to allow a personal hearing. The

 appellant/ petitioner has also invoked the writ jurisdiction of this Court by

 challenging the validity of the Master Directions on Frauds.

C. Submissions 10. On behalf of the borrowers, we have heard Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Mr

 Ranjit Kumar, Mr Dhruv Mehta, Mr Arunabh Chowdhury, Mr Navin Pahwa,

 Senior Advocates and Mr Suraj Prakash, learned counsel. The counsel

 submit that the procedure for classification of an account as fraud under

 the Master Directions on Frauds suffers from illegalities because: 11. On behalf of the RBI and lender banks, we have heard Mr Tushar Mehta,

 Solicitor General of India, Mr Gopal Jain, Senior Counsel and Mr Ramesh

 Babu M R and Mr G N Reddy, learned counsel. Counsel submitted that

 the challenge to the classification of a loan account as fraudulent on the

 ground of a violation of the principles of natural justice is devoid of merit for

 the following reasons: 12. RBI is a statutory body constituted under Section 3 of the Reserve Bank of

 India Act, 1934. The RBI has been constituted for the purpose of taking

 over the management of currency from the Central Government, regulating

 the issue of bank notes, keeping of reserves with a view to securing

 monetary stability, and operating the currency and credit system of India.

 RBI is entrusted with the statutory obligation of administering the

 provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 14. The BR Act vests RBI

 with various powers with respect to banking companies such as granting

 licenses, conducting inspections and giving directions.

13 Master Circular on Wilful Defaulters, 2015
14 “ BR Act ” 15 13. Section 35A of the BR Act empowers RBI to issue directions to banking

 companies. Such directions are statutory in nature. Section 35A is

 extracted below: section (1), and in so modifying or cancelling any direction may
 impose such conditions as it thinks fit, subject to which
 modifications or cancellation shall have effect.” 14. RBI has been issuing ‘master directions’ on diverse issues since 2016.

 These directions encompass the instructions on that particular subject. The

 master directions are updated whenever there is a change in policy, and

 such changes get reflected on RBI’s website. In exercise of the power

 conferred by Section 35A , RBI issued the Master Directions on Frauds on

 01 July 2016 to consolidate and update seven earlier circulars on

 classification of fraud, reporting and monitoring issued between June 2009

 and January 2016. The Master Directions on Frauds were updated on 03

 July 2017. The purpose of the Master Directions is extracted below: and (iv) Chapter X deals with cases relating to theft, burglary, dacoity, and

 bank robberies. The dispute in the present batch of cases is concerned

 with Chapter VIII dealing with loan frauds. 15 “CFR” 18 19. Chapter VI states that as a general rule, cases involving fraud/

 embezzlement should invariably be referred to the state police or CBI.

 Chapter VIII provides for more robust safeguards which ensure that banks

 report frauds to investigating agencies after forming an informed opinion.

 The framework for dealing with loan frauds was put in place by a circular

 dated 07 May 2015. The objective of the framework has been enumerated

 in Clause 8.2: 20. Clause 8.3 deals with Early Warning Signals 16 and Red Flagged

 Accounts. 17 Under Clause 8.3.1, a RFA is one where a suspicion of

 fraudulent activity is thrown up by the presence of one or more EWS. EWS

 which should alert bank officials about wrongdoings in a loan account are

 set out in Annexure II. Some of those enumerated are set out below: b. Dishonour of high value cheques; ii. Delay in payment of outstanding dues; iii. Funds coming from other banks to liquidate the outstanding loan

 amount except in the normal course; iv. Exclusive collateral charged to a number of lenders without NOCs

 of existing charge holders; v. Dispute on title to collateral securities; and

 vi. Critical issues in the stock audit report. 21. EWS provide indications of wrongdoing which may later turn out to be

 frauds. A bank is put on alert by the presence of EWS and must use them

 to trigger a detailed investigation into the concerned bank account.

 According to Clause 8.3.5, the officer responsible for operations in the

 account should promptly report any manifestation of EWS to the Fraud

 Monitoring Group18 constituted by the bank. The clause directs banks to

 take cognizance of EWS and launch a detailed investigation into an RFA. 22. Clause 8.8 deals with situations where a bank is the sole lender. In such

 situations, the FMG is entrusted with the responsibility to take a call on

 whether a bank account in which EWS are observed should be classified

18 “FMG” 20 as RFA. The bank is permitted to use external auditors before taking a final

 call on RFA status. However, within six months the bank is required to

 either lift the RFA status or classify the account as fraud in accordance

 with the investigation or forensic audits. 23. Clause 8.9 deals with lending under consortium or multiple banking

 arrangements19. Clause 8.9.2 provides that all banks which have financed

 a borrower under an MBA should take coordinated action based on a

 commonly agreed strategy for subsequent legal actions, follow-ups,

 exchange of details and information on a consistent basis. Clauses 8.9.4

 and 8.9.5 provide the procedure for classification of a borrower’s account

 as fraud: 24. Clause 8.9.4 stipulates that the initial decision to classify an account as

 RFA or fraud vests with the individual bank. Once the bank classifies the

 account as fraud, it is the responsibility of that bank to report the RFA or

 fraud status on the account on the Central Repository of Information on

 Large Credits 20 platform to alert other banks. In case the individual bank

 decides to straightaway classify the account as fraud, it is obligated to

 report the fraud to RBI within 21 days of detection and also report the case

 to CBI/Police. Further, within 15 days the individual bank could ask the

 consortium leader or the largest lender under the MBA to convene a

 meeting of the JLF to discuss the issue. The meeting of the JLF has to be

 convened within 15 days of the request being received. The JLF can

 classify an account as fraud in case there is a broad consensus.

20 “CRILC” 22 Otherwise, the clause indicates that based on an agreement amongst

 banks with at least a 60 percent share in total lending, the account should

 be red-flagged by all banks and subjected to forensic audit commissioned

 or initiated by the consortium leader or the largest lender under MBA. 25. Clause 8.9.5 states that the forensic audit has to be completed within 3

 months from the date of the JLF meeting authorizing the audit. Within 15

 days of the completion of the audit, the JLF has to decide to classify the

 account as fraud and report it to the RBI. The clause also requires the

 bank commissioning the audit to lodge a complaint with CBI on behalf of all

 banks in the consortium within 30 days of reporting to RBI. 26. Clause 8.11 deals with the filing of complaints to law enforcement

 agencies. Clause 8.11.1 requires banks to lodge complaints with law

 enforcement agencies immediately on detecting fraud. The clause enjoins

 banks to avoid delay in filing a complaint as it may result in loss of

 documents, unavailability of witnesses, absconding borrowers, loss of

 money trail and asset tripping by fraudulent borrowers. 27. The penal measures for fraudulent borrowers are set out in Clause 8.12

 which reads as follows: 28. Clause 8.12.1 provides that the penal provisions as applicable to willful

 defaulters would apply to fraudulent borrowers as regards the raising of

 funds from the banking system and financial institutions. Importantly, under

 the clause, fraudulent borrowers include promoters, directors, and other

 whole-time directors of the borrowing company. It debars fraudulent 24 borrowers from availing banking finance from scheduled commercial

 banks, development financial institutions, government owned NBFCs,

 investment institutions, etc. for a period of five years from the date of full

 payment of the defrauded amount. Even after the completion of the five-

 year period, it is for the individual financial institutions to decide whether to

 lend to fraudulent borrowers, including directors and promoters of the

 borrowing company. Additionally, under Clause 8.12.2, fraudulent

 borrowers are denied restructuring or grant of additional facilities by banks

 and other such financial institutions. D.2 Audi Alteram Partem 29. We need to bear in mind that the principles of natural justice are not mere

 legal formalities. They constitute substantive obligations that need to be

 followed by decision-making and adjudicating authorities. The principles of

 natural justice act as a guarantee against arbitrary action, both in terms of

 procedure and substance, by judicial, quasi-judicial, and administrative

 authorities. Two fundamental principles of natural justice are entrenched in

 Indian jurisprudence: (i) nemo judex in causa sua, which means that no

 person should be a judge in their own cause; and (ii) audi alteram partem,

 which means that a person affected by administrative, judicial or quasi-

 judicial action must be heard before a decision is taken. The courts

 generally favor interpretation of a statutory provision consistent with the

 principles of natural justice because it is presumed that the statutory

 authorities do not intend to contravene fundamental rights. Application of 25 the said principles depends on the facts and circumstances of the case,

 express language and basic scheme of the statute under which the

 administrative power is exercised, the nature and purpose for which the

 power is conferred, and the final effect of the exercise of that power.21 30. While the borrowers argue that the actions of banks in classifying borrower

 accounts as fraud according to the procedure laid down under the Master

 Directions on Frauds is in violation of the principles of natural justice, the

 RBI and lender banks argue that these principles cannot be applied at the

 stage of reporting a criminal offence to investigating agencies. At the

 outset, we clarify that principles of natural justice are not applicable at the

 stage of reporting a criminal offence, which is a consistent position of law

 adopted by this Court. In Union of India v. W N Chadha , a two-judge

 bench of this Court held that that providing an opportunity of hearing to the

 accused in every criminal case before taking any action against them

 would “frustrate the proceedings, obstruct the taking of prompt action as

 law demands, defeat the ends of justice and make the provisions of law

 relating to the investigation lifeless, absurd, and self-defeating.”22 Again, a

 two-judge bench of this Court in Anju Chaudhary v. State of UP 23 has

 reiterated that the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 does not provide for

 right of hearing before the registration of an FIR. 31. Chapter VIII of the Master Directions on Fraud provides detailed

 procedures to be followed by the banks before forming an opinion to

21 Union of India v. Col . J N Sinha, (1970) 2 SCC 458
22 1993 Supp (4) SCC 260
23 (2013) 6 SCC 384 26 proceed with a criminal complaint against the borrowers. Under the said

 chapter, the lender banks have to report a borrower to the CBI after

 classifying the borrower’s account as fraudulent. However, the

 classification of the borrower’s account does not simpliciter lead to

 reporting of criminal complaint with the enforcement authorities; it also

 entails penal consequences for the borrowers as laid down under Clause

 8.12. 32. The process of forming an informed opinion under the Master Directions

 on Frauds is administrative in nature. This has also been acceded to by

 RBI and lender banks in their written submissions. It is now a settled

 principle of law that the rule of audi alteram partem applies to

 administrative actions, apart from judicial and quasi-judicial functions. 24 It is

 also a settled position in administrative law that it is mandatory to provide

 for an opportunity of being heard when an administrative action results in

 civil consequences to a person or entity. 33. In State of Orissa v. Dr (Miss) Binapani Dei 25, a two-judge bench of this

 Court held that every authority which has the power to take punitive or

 damaging action has a duty to give a reasonable opportunity to be heard.

 This Court further held that an administrative action which involves civil

 consequences must be made consistent with the rules of natural justice: 34. In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India 26, a seven-judge bench of this court

 held that any person prejudicially affected by a decision of the authority

 entailing civil consequences must be given an opportunity of being heard.

 This has been reiterated in a catena of decisions of this Court. In view of

 the settled position of law, the next question that arises before us is the

 scope and definition of the phrase ‘civil consequences’. 35. In Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi27 , a

 Constitution Bench of this Court held that ‘civil consequences’ cover

 infraction of not merely property or personal rights but of civil liberties,

 material deprivations, and non-pecuniary damages. In that case, the Court

 held that denial of a democratic right to cast a vote inflicts civil

 consequences. In D K Yadav v. J M A Industries 28, a three-judge bench

 of this Court observed that “everything that affects a citizen in his civil life

 inflicts a civil consequence.”

26 (1978) 1 SCC 248
27 (1978) 1 SCC 405
28 (1993) 3 SCC 259 28 36. In Canara Bank v. V K Awasthy 29, a two-judge bench of this Court

 succinctly summarized the history, scope, and application of the principles

 of natural justice to administrative actions involving civil consequences in

 the following terms: (emphasis supplied)

 There is a consistent pattern of judicial thought that civil consequences

 entail infractions not merely of property or personal rights, but also of civil

 liberties, material deprivations, and non-pecuniary damages. Every order

 or proceeding which involves civil consequences or adversely affects a

 citizen should be in accordance with the principles of natural justice. 37. The next question that requires our consideration is whether the

 classification of a borrower’s account as fraudulent under the Master

 Directions on Frauds entails civil consequences to borrowers.

29 (2005) 6 SCC 321 29 38. The RBI and lender banks have argued that the civil consequences

 contemplated in Clause 8.12.1 of the Master Directions on Frauds are

 reasonable. Under the said clause, the borrower, including the promoters

 and directors of the company, are barred from availing credit from financial

 markets and credit markets for a period of five years, and possibly even

 beyond. According to RBI and lender banks, such a restriction has to be

 perceived from the perspective of public interest. While acknowledging that

 the procedure which has been laid down in the Master Directions on

 Frauds is conceived in public interest, to protect the banking system, we

 cannot ignore the serious civil consequences which emanate to the

 borrowers. 39. Clause 8.12 of the Master Directions on Frauds deals with the penal

 measures for borrowers. Clause 8.12.1 provides that penal provisions as

 applicable to wilful defaulters would apply to fraudulent borrowers,

 including the promoters and directors of the borrower company. The

 consequences that apply to a wilful defaulter under the Master Circular on

 Wilful Defaulters have been culled out in Jah Developers (supra): 40. In addition to the above consequences, borrowers are also liable to suffer

 the following consequences under the Master Directions on Frauds: The borrowers have placed reliance on Jah Developers (supra) to submit

 that debarring them from accessing institutional finance under Clause

 8.12.1 of the Master Directions affects the fundamental right of the

 borrower to carry on business. On the other hand, the RBI and lender

 banks have argued that reliance on the observations in Jah Developers (supra) is misplaced because the decision dealt with the classification of a

 borrower as wilful defaulter, whereas the present batch of appeals deal

 with the classification of a borrower’s account as fraud. 31 41. The question in Jah Developers (supra) was whether a person who is

 declared to be a wilful defaulter according to the procedure laid down in the Master Circular on Wilful Defaulters is entitled to be represented by a

 lawyer of their choice before such a declaration is made. The Court held

 that a borrower does not have the right to be represented by a lawyer in

 the course of in-house proceedings envisaged in Paragraph 3 of the

 Master Circular on Wilful Defaulters. Paragraph 3 of the Master Circular on

 Wilful Defaulters provides a two-tier process for identification of a wilful

 defaulter. At the first stage, a First Committee headed by an Executive

 Director or equivalent and consisting of two other senior officers of the

 bank must, after examining the evidence of wilful default and concluding

 that wilful default has occurred, issue a show-cause notice to the

 concerned borrowers and promoters/ whole-time directors calling for their

 submissions. The First Committee has to consider the submissions before

 recording the fact of wilful default with reasons. If the Committee deems it

 necessary, it could also provide a personal hearing to the borrower and the

 promoter/ whole-time director of the borrowing company. The second

 stage is that the order of the First Committee is reviewed by another

 Committee, known as the Review Committee. Thus, it is clear that the

 procedure for declaration of a borrower as a wilful defaulter is different

 from the procedure envisaged under the Master Directions on Frauds for

 classifying a borrower’s account as fraud. However, by virtue of Clause

 8.12.1 of the Master Directions on Frauds, the penal provisions applicable

 to wilful defaulters also apply to fraudulent borrowers. Thus, although the 32 procedure adopted for declaration of a wilful defaulter is different from that

envisaged for classifying the borrower’s account as fraud, they will face

similar consequences. In fact, as mentioned above, the borrowers’

accounts classified as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds will

face certain additional consequences which have been laid down in Clauses 8.12.2 and 8.12.3. Since the consequences flowing from the two

circulars are similar, the observations in Jah Developers (supra) on the

effect of declaring a borrower as wilful defaulter will be squarely applicable

to the present case. The observations of the Court are extracted below: Given these drastic consequences, it is clear that the Revised
 Circular, being in public interest, must be construed
 reasonably. (emphasis supplied)

In Jah Developers (supra), this Court construed the Master Circular on

Wilful Defaulters by harmonizing it with the principles of natural justice.

Particularly, it was directed that: (i) the First Committee must give its order

to the borrower as soon as possible; (ii) the Borrower, thereafter, can file a

written representation against the order of First Committee to the Review 33 Committee; and (iii) the Review Committee must pass a reasoned order

 which must be provided to the borrower. 42. Classification of the borrower’s account as fraud under the Master

 Directions on Frauds virtually leads to a credit freeze for the borrower, who

 is debarred from raising finance from financial markets and capital

 markets. The bar from raising finances could be fatal for the borrower

 leading to its ‘civil death’ in addition to the infraction of their rights under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. Since debarring disentitles a person or

 entity from exercising their rights and/or privileges, it is elementary that the

 principles of natural justice should be made applicable and the person

 against whom an action of debarment is sought should be given an

 opportunity of being heard. Indeed, debarment is akin to blacklisting a

 borrower from availing credit. Black’s Law Dictionary 30 explains the term

 ‘blacklist’ has been defined in the following terms: 43. A blacklist is: (i) a list of insolvent or untrustworthy persons published by a

 commercial agency or mercantile association; and (ii) a list of persons

 unworthy of credit, or with whom it is not advisable to make contracts.

 Before this Court, the RBI and lender banks have submitted that debarring

 borrowers from accessing institutional finance is necessary to not only

 prevent the same persons from committing frauds in other banks, but also

 to proscribe banks from dealing with unscrupulous borrowers in public

 interest. Debarring a borrower under Clause 8.12.1 of the Master

 Directions on Frauds is akin to blacklisting the borrower for being

 untrustworthy and unworthy of credit by the banks. This Court has

 consistently held that an opportunity of a hearing ought to be provided

 before a person is put on a blacklist. 44. In Erusian Equipment & Chemicals Ltd v. State of West Bengal32 , the

 issue before this Court was whether a person is entitled to a notice to be

 heard before being blacklisted by the government. This Court held that

 since blacklisting affects the privileges of the blacklisted person,

 fundamentals of fair play require that such a person be provided an

 opportunity of being heard: 45. In Joseph Vilangandan v. Executive Engineer 33, the issue before the

 two-judge pertained to debarment of a government contractor from seeking

 any further contract with the government without providing an opportunity

 of being heard. The material sentence of the notice there read as follows: 46. In Raghunath Thakur v. State of Bihar 34, a two-judge bench of this Court

 held that since blacklisting entails civil consequences an order of

 blacklisting should be issued only after following the principles of natural

 justice: 47. In Gorkha Security Services v. Govt (NCT of Delhi ) 35, the issue before

 this Court pertained to the form and content of a show-cause notice that is

 required to be served before blacklisting the noticee. A two-judge bench of

 this Court observed that that an order blacklisting a person is stigmatic.

 The relevant observation is extracted below: (emphasis supplied) 48. Classification of a borrower’s account as fraud has the effect of preventing

 the borrower from accessing institutional finance for the purpose of

 business. It also entails significant civil consequences as it jeopardizes the

 future of the business of the borrower. Therefore, the principles of natural

 justice necessitate giving an opportunity of a hearing before debarring the

 borrower from accessing institutional finance under Clause 8.12.1 of the

 Master Directions on Frauds. The action of classifying an account as fraud

 not only affects the business and goodwill of the borrower, but also the

 right to reputation. 35 (2014) 9 SCC 105 37 49. In State of Maharashtra v. Public Concern for Governance Trust 36, a

 two-judge bench of this Court held that a decision taken by any authority

 affecting the right to reputation of an individual has civil consequences.

 Therefore, in such situations the principles of natural justice would come

 into play. The Court held that any order or decision of the authority

 adversely affecting the personal reputation of an individual must be taken

 after following the principles of natural justice: 50. The RBI and lender banks have relied on Peerless General Finance and

 Investment Co. Ltd v. Reserve Bank of India37 , Joseph Kuruvilla

 Vellukunnel v. Reserve Bank of India38 , and Internet and Mobile

 Association of India v. Reserve Bank of India39 to submit that the

 Master Directions on Frauds are akin to a statutory regulation and a

 decision on economic policy, which must be accorded a level of deference. 51. The competence of the RBI to issue the Master Directions on Frauds is

 not a bone of contention in these appeals. The RBI, in its estimation, has

 the power to determine and frame economic measures in the public

 interest to ensure the proper management of banking companies. The

36 (2007) 3 SCC 587
37 (1992) 2 SCC 343
38 AIR 1962 SC 1371
39 (2020) 10 SCC 274 38 point however is that the implementation of a decision to secure the health

 of banking companies must comport with the due process of law. The civil

 consequences which follow upon a classification of a borrower’s account

 as fraud are serious and prejudicial to the interests of a borrower.

 Principles of fair play require that borrower ought to be given an

 opportunity of being heard before classifying the account as fraud in

 accordance with the procedure laid down under the Master Directions on

 Frauds. D.3 No implied exclusion of audi alteram partem 52. The RBI and the lender banks have contended that the Master Directions

 on Frauds impliedly exclude the right to be heard. The objective of the

 Master Directions on Frauds is to ensure timely detection and reporting of

 cases of fraud to alert other banks and initiate criminal proceedings. The

 Directions contemplate an opportunity of hearing to a third party who is

 involved in the commission of fraudulent activity, but do not explicitly

 provide for hearing to a borrower. Thus, it is urged that hearing to the

 borrowers is excluded by necessary implication. 53. The Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly exclude a right of

 hearing to the borrowers before action to class their account as frauds is

 initiated. The principles of natural justice can be read into a statute or a

 notification where it is silent on granting an opportunity of a hearing to a

 party whose rights and interests are likely to be affected by the orders that

 may be passed. 39 54. In a decision of a three-judge bench of this Court in Swadeshi Cotton

 Mills v. Union of India 40, the issue was whether the Central government

 was required to comply with the requirements of audi alteram partem

 before it took over the management of an industrial undertaking under Section 18-AA(1)(a) of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act,

 1951 41. R S Sarkaria, J speaking for the majority consisting of himself and

 D A Desai, J laid down the following principles of law: decisional stage. Conversely, if the statute conferring the
 power is silent with regard to the giving of a pre-decisional
 hearing to the person affected and the administrative decision
 taken by the authority involves civil consequences of a grave
 nature, and no full review or appeal on merits against that
 decision is provided, courts will be extremely reluctant to
 construe such a statute as excluding the duty of affording
 even a minimal hearing shorn of all its formal trappings and
 dilatory features at the pre-decisional stage, unless, viewed
 pragmatically, it would paralyse the administrative progress or
 frustrate the need for utmost promptitude. In short, this rule of
 fair play “must not be jettisoned save in very exceptional
 circumstances where compulsive necessity so demands”.
 The court must make every effort to salvage this cardinal rule
 to the maximum extent possible, with situational
 modifications. But, to recall the words of Bhagwati, J., the core of
 it must, however, remain, namely, that the person affected must
 have reasonable opportunity of being heard and the hearing must
 be a genuine hearing and not an empty public relations exercise. (emphasis supplied) 55. The main point for consideration before this Court in Swadeshi Cotton

 Mills (supra) was whether the use of the phrase “immediate action is

40 (1981) 1 SCC 664
41 “ IDR Act, 1951 ” 40 necessary” under Section 18-AA(1)(a) of the IDR Act impliedly excluded

the application of the audi alteram partem rule. Sarkaria, J held that the

expression “immediate action”, construed in light of the overall context,

object and reasons of the legislation, did not necessarily indicate an

intention to exclude the requirement of prior hearing. The Court held that

the use of the phrase does not exclude the duty to comply with the audi

alteram partem rule: Procedure is mainly grounded on the principles of natural justice
 irrespective of the extent of its application by express provision in
 that regard in a given situation. It has always been a cherished
 principle. Where the statute is silent about the observance of
 the principles of natural justice, such statutory silence is
 taken to imply compliance with the principles of natural
 justice where substantial rights of parties are considerably
 affected. The application of natural justice becomes
 presumptive, unless found excluded by express words of
 statute or necessary intendment. Its aim is to secure justice or
 to prevent miscarriage of justice. Principles of natural justice
 do not supplant the law, but supplement it. These rules operate
 only in areas not covered by any law validly made. They are a
 means to an end and not an end in themselves. […]

 (emphasis supplied) 57. As a counter to the above legal position, the RBI and lender banks have

 contended that the principles of natural justice could be excluded in cases

 where there is a requirement of promptitude or exigent action. In support of

42 (2004) 2 SCC 447 42 the submission, the RBI and banks have relied upon Ajit Kumar Nag v. General Manager (PJ), Indian Oil Corp. Ltd 43, which in turn relied on the

 Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Union of India v. Tulsiram

 Patel . 44 In Tulsiram Patel (supra), this Court observed that a right to a

 prior notice and an opportunity to be heard could be excluded if allowing

 for such a right would obstruct the taking of prompt action: 43 (2005) 7 SCC 764
44 (1985) 3 SCC 398
45 (1987) 4 SCC 431 43 employment as their services were not taken over by the transferee banks

 in view of allegations of misconduct against them. While noting the fact

 that the entire process of amalgamation was statutorily required to be

 completed within 6 months, this Court held that the said time frame

 provides scope for granting an opportunity of hearing to the affected

 employees: 46 (1973) 1 SCC 380 45 While deciding to lay down a general principle, this Court observed that

 there may be certain situations where an investigation report is required to

 be furnished to the concerned party to make an effective representation

 about the proposed action: (emphasis supplied) 63. In Swadeshi Cotton Mills (supra), this Court held that a company is

 entitled to an opportunity to explain the evidence collected against it and

 represent why the proposed action should not be taken: Secondly, what the rule of natural justice required in the
 circumstances of this case, was not only that the Company
 should have been given an opportunity to explain the
 evidence against it, but also an opportunity to be informed of
 the proposed action of take over and to represent why it be
 not taken. 46 (emphasis supplied) 64. Audi alteram partem has several facets, including the service of a notice to

 any person against whom a prejudicial order may be passed and providing

 an opportunity to explain the evidence collected. In Tulsiram Patel (supra), this Court explained the wide amplitude of audi alteram partem: 65. Audi alteram partem, therefore, entails that an entity against whom

 evidence is collected must: (i) be provided an opportunity to explain the

 evidence against it; (ii) be informed of the proposed action, and (iii) be

 allowed to represent why the proposed action should not be taken. Hence,

 the mere participation of the borrower during the course of the preparation

 of a forensic audit report would not fulfil the requirements of natural justice.

 The decision to classify an account as fraud involves due application of

 mind to the facts and law by the lender banks. The lender banks, either 47 individually or through a JLF, have to decide whether a borrower has

 breached the terms and conditions of a loan agreement, and based upon

 such determination the lender banks can seek appropriate remedies.

 Therefore, principles of natural justice demand that the borrowers must be

 served a notice, given an opportunity to explain the findings in the forensic

 audit report, and to represent before the account is classified as fraud

 under the Master Directions on Frauds. D.4 Challenge to constitutional validity 66. The borrowers have argued that the Master Directions on Frauds will have

 to be struck down as arbitrary and unconstitutional for conferring unguided

 and unbridled powers on banks. To counter the submission, the RBI and

 lender banks have relied upon the decision in Delhi Cloth Mills & General

 Mills v. Union of India 47 to submit that the provisions of the Master

 Directions on Frauds are not arbitrary as they have a reasonable nexus to

 the object sought to be achieved. It was further argued that the Courts

 should not interfere with and supplant their wisdom in an economic policy

 decision unless there is blatant perversity, arbitrariness, or mala fides. 67. The RBI has the right to take all such measures as are necessary to

 protect the health of the banking system. Hence, the Master Directions on

 Frauds lay down the procedure for banks, who in case of a breach of loan

 agreements by borrowers, can seek appropriate remedies by approaching

 law enforcement agencies and debarring borrowers from accessing further

47 (1983) 4 SCC 166 48 institutional finance. However, any policy decision which contemplates

 serious civil consequences for any person will be open to challenge for

 being arbitrary if the principles of natural justice are not applied during the

 process. 68. In E P Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu 48, this Court held that an arbitrary

 state action is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. Again, in Maneka

 Gandhi (supra) this court reiterated that the principle of non-arbitrariness

 pervades Article 14. An administrative action can be tested for

 constitutional infirmities under Article 14 on four grounds: (i)

 unreasonableness or irrationality; (ii) illegality; (iii) procedural impropriety; 49

 and (iv) proportionality. However, the scope of such judicial review is

 limited to ascertaining the deficiency in the decision-making process, and

 not the correctness of the choice made by the administrator.50 69. Fairness in action requires that procedures which permit impairment of

 fundamental rights ought to be just, fair, and reasonable. The principles of

 natural justice have a universal application and constitute an important

 facet of procedural propriety envisaged under Article 14. The rule of audi

 alteram partem is recognized as being a part of the guarantee contained in Article 14. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Tulsiram Patel (supra)

 has categorically held that violation of the principles of natural justice is a

 violation of Article 14. The court held that any state action in breach of

 natural justice implicates a violation of Article 14: Shortly put, the syllogism runs thus: violation of a rule of natural
 justice results in arbitrariness which is the same as discrimination;
 where discrimination is the result of State action, it is a violation of Article 14: therefore, a violation of a principle of natural justice
 by a State action is a violation of Article 14. Article 14 ,
 however, is not the sole repository of the principles of natural
 justice. What it does is to guarantee that any law or State
 action violating them will be struck down. The principles of
 natural justice, however, apply not only to legislation and
 State action but also where any tribunal, authority or body of
 men, not coming within the definition of State in Article 12 , is
 charged with the duty of deciding a matter. In such a case, the
 principles of natural justice require that it must decide such matter
 fairly and impartially.”

 (emphasis supplied) 70. In Cantonment Board v. Taramani Devi 51, a two-judge bench of this

 Court held that the rule of audi alteram partem is a part of Article 14. Similarly, in Delhi Transport Corporation v. DTC Mazdoor Congress 52,

 this Court observed that the rule of audi alteram partem enforces the

 equality clause in Article 14. Therefore, any administrative action which

 violates the rule of audi alteram partem is arbitrary and violative of Article 14. 71. Administrative proceedings which entail significant civil consequences

 must be read consistent with the principles of natural justice to meet the

 requirement of Article 14. Where possible, the rule of audi alteram partem

 ought to be read into a statutory rule to render it compliant with the

 principles of equality and non-arbitrariness envisaged under Article 14. The

 Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly provide the borrowers an
51 1992 Supp (2) SCC 501
52 1991 Supp (1) SCC 600 50 opportunity of being heard before classifying the borrower’s account as

 fraud. Audi alteram partem must then be read into the provisions of the

 Master Directions on Frauds. 72. In Olga Tellis v. Bombay Municipal Corporation 53, a Constitution Bench

 of this Court was called upon to adjudge the validity of Section 314 of the

 Bombay Municipal Corporation Act, 1888. The provision enabled the

 Municipal Commissioner to remove, without notice, any object, structure or

 fixture which was set up in or upon any street. Chief Justice Y V

 Chandrachud delivering the judgment of the Constitution Bench held that

 the impugned provision must be construed to ensure that the procedure

 contemplated is fair and reasonable. It was further held: (emphasis supplied)

53 (1985) 3 SCC 545 51 73. In Union of India v. Col . J N Sinha 54, a two-judge bench of this Court held

 that an endeavor must be made to interpret a statutory provision consistent

 with the principles of natural justice: (emphasis supplied) 74. In C B Gautam v. Union of India55 , the question before a Constitution Bench

 of this Court was whether a show cause notice must be issued to an intending

 purchaser and seller of property before making a compulsory purchase under

 Section 269-UD(1) of Chapter XX-C of the Income Tax Act, 1961. Chief

 Justice M H Kania speaking for the Constitution Bench held that where the

 validity of a provision would be open to serious challenge for want of an

 opportunity of being heard, Courts have read such a requirement into the

 provision. In C B Gautam (supra), this Court read the principles of natural

 justice into the provisions of Chapter XX-C to save them from the vice of

 arbitrariness. The Constitution Bench held: Moreover, if such a requirement were not read into the
 provisions of the said Chapter, they would be seriously open
 to challenge on the ground of violations of the provisions of Article 14 on the ground of non-compliance with principles of
 natural justice. The provision that when an order for purchase is
 made under Section 269-UD — reasons must be recorded in
 writing is no substitute for a provision requiring a reasonable
 opportunity of being heard before such an order is made. (emphasis supplied) 75. In Sahara India (Firm), Lucknow v. Commissioner of Income Tax,

 Central-I56 , a two-judge bench of this Court was called upon to decide

 whether an opportunity of being heard has to be granted to an assesee

 before any direction could be issued under section 142(2- A) of the Income

 Tax Act, 1961 for special audit of the accounts of the assessee. This Court

 held that since the exercise of power under section 142(2- A) of the Income

 Tax Act leads to serious civil consequences for the assesee, the

 requirement of observing the principles of natural justice is to be read into

 the said provision. 76. In Kesar Enterprises Ltd v. State of Uttar Pradesh57 , the Court dealt

 with a challenge to the validity of Rule 633(7) of the Uttar Pradesh Excise

 Manual which allowed the imposition of a penalty for breach of the

56 (2008) 14 SCC 151
57 (2011) 13 SCC 733 53 conditions of a bond without expressly issuing a show-cause notice. D K

 Jain, J speaking on behalf of the two-judge bench held that a show-cause

 notice should be issued and an opportunity of being heard should be

 afforded before an order under Rule 633(7) is made. The Court held that

 the rule would be open to challenge for being violative of Article 14 of the

 Constitution unless the requirement of an opportunity to show cause is

 read into it. The Court observed: […] 32. In our view, therefore, if the requirement of an opportunity
 to show cause is not read into the said Rule, an action
 thereunder would be open to challenge as violative of Article
 14 of the Constitution of India on the ground that the power
 conferred on the competent authority under the provision is
 arbitrary. (emphasis supplied) 77. It has been elucidated in the preceding paragraphs that the classification of

 a borrower’s account as fraud in accordance with the procedure laid down

 in the Master Directions on Frauds entails significant civil consequences

 for the borrower. Since the Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly

 provide an opportunity of being heard to the borrower before classifying an 54 account as fraud, the rule of audi alteram partem has to be read into the

 provisions of the said directions to save them from the vice of arbitrariness. 78. Before concluding, we also want to address the argument by the borrowers

 that the requirement of passing a reasoned order must be read into the

 Master Directions on Frauds. The borrowers also relied on Jah

 Developers (supra) where it was held that a final decision of the Review

 Committee declaring the borrower as a ‘wilful defaulter’ must be made by a

 reasoned order. We agree with this contention of the borrowers because: 79. In light of the legal position noted above, we hold that the rule of audi

 alteram partem ought to be read in Clauses 8.9.4 and 8.9.5 of the Master

 Directions on Fraud. Consistent with the principles of natural justice, the

 lender banks should provide an opportunity to a borrower by furnishing a

 copy of the audit reports and allow the borrower a reasonable opportunity

 to submit a representation before classifying the account as fraud. A

 reasoned order has to be issued on the objections addressed by the

 borrower. On perusal of the facts, it is indubitable that the lender banks did
58 Kranti Associates (P) Ltd. v. Masood Ahmed Khan , (2010) 9 SCC 496 55 not provide an opportunity of hearing to the borrowers before classifying

 their accounts as fraud. Therefore, the impugned decision to classify the

 borrower account as fraud is vitiated by the failure to observe the rule of

 audi alteram partem. In the present batch of appeals, this Court passed an

 ad-interim order restraining the lender banks from taking any precipitate

 action against the borrowers for the time being. In pursuance of our

 aforesaid reasoning, we hold that the decision by the lender banks to

 classify the borrower accounts as fraud, is violative of the principles of

 natural justice. The banks would be at liberty to take fresh steps in

 accordance with this decision. 80. Lastly, the borrowers have argued that the Master Directions on Frauds

 suffer from manifest arbitrariness because they stipulate an opportunity of

 a hearing to third parties, while denying the same to borrowers, who face

 significant civil consequences. Clause 8.12.5 of the Master Directions on

 Frauds provides that banks have to satisfy themselves of the involvement

 of third parties and provide them with an opportunity of being heard before

 reporting them to Indian Banks’ Association. We are unable to accept this

 argument of the borrowers in light of the fact that the borrowers and the

 third parties stand on a different footing because: (i) the borrowers are the

 main perpetrators of fraud, while the third parties are merely facilitators;

 and (ii) it is the borrowers who face the significant civil consequences

 stipulated under clauses 8.12.1 and 8.12.2, while the third party service

 providers are merely referred to the Indian Banks’ Association which

 maintains a caution list of such service providers. However, this view does 56 not affect our conclusions in view of the discussion in the preceding

 paragraphs. E. Conclusion 81. The conclusions are summarized below: 82. In the result, the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court of

 Telangana dated 10 December 2020 is upheld. The judgments of the High

 Court of Telangana dated 22 December 2021 and 31 December 2021, and

 of the High Court of Gujarat dated 23 December 2021 are accordingly set

 aside. The Civil Appeals are disposed of. Writ Petition (C) No. 138 of 2022

 is also disposed of in above terms. There shall be no order as to costs. 58 83. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. …………………………………………CJI
 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

 ….…………………………………………J
 [Hima Kohli]

New Delhi; March 27, 2023 59