Reserved on : August 14, 2025. Pronounced on : October 16, 2025. [Through Video conferencing]. Uploaded on : October 16, 2025. Judgment : and Birla formative marks. The Plaintiffs claim that by virtue of

internal business arrangement, only the Birla family group of

companies owned or managed by Birla family are entitled to adoption

and/or use of the well known trade mark "BIRLA" either standalone or

in conjunction with other mark. It is stated that one such mark is Aditya

Birla Group word mark and logo which was adopted in the year 1996 in

multiple classes and has been used in conjunction with other "BIRLA"

marks. The Aditya Birla Management Corporation Pvt Ltd maintains

the website with the domain name www.birlawhite.com since 1st

November,1999. 3. The plaint sets out at Exhibit-"A" 112 registrations of "BIRLA"

trademarks secured in various classes. It is stated that under a scheme

of arrangement in nature of demerger, the trade mark "BIRLA WHITE" 4. To demonstrate the goodwill and reputation achieved by the

Plaintiffs under its registered trade marks, the plaint sets out various

awards and recognition bestowed upon the Plaintiffs, the specimen

advertisement and sales and promotional material. The trademark

"BIRLA" is claimed to have acquired the status of a well known trade

mark as contemplated under the Trade Marks Act . 5. It is submitted that the Plaintiffs became aware of the

Defendant No.1's existence on or around 27th November 2021 upon

receipt of legal notice from Defendant Nos.2 and 3 alleging

commission of fraud, cheating, extortion, misrepresentation etc. The

notice alleged that relying on false representation and on strength of

alleged consent letter issued by Birla family group authorising the

Defendant No.1 to adopt and use the impugned mark "BIRLA" and

Patil-SR (ch) 4 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

"BIRLA TMT" and sell franchises, the Defendant No.2 acted as

franchisee of Defendant No.1. 6. It is submitted that the Plaintiff No.1 caused search on the

internet when it came across the website of Defendant No.1 under the

impugned domain name, viz., www.birlatmtsteel.com and

www.birlaebike.com. The registration of Defendant No.1's trade mark

is assailed as fraudulent as the impugned trademarks and domain

names are visually, structurally and phonetically identical to the

Plaintiff's prior adopted and well known "BIRLA" trade mark.

Rectification applications have been filed by the Plaintiffs for

cancellation of the impugned marks. 7. The Plaintiff's claim of infringement of its registered mark is also

by reason of incorporation of companies by the name Birla Medicare

Private Limited and Birla Biotech Private Limited by the Defendant

No.6 and other Directors claiming that the same is with the intention to

trade upon the goodwill and reputation of Plaintiffs and Aditya Birla

Group. 8. By its reply Affidavits, the defence of the Defendant No.1 is that

being the registered proprietor, the right to sue for infringement

cannot be invoked against the Defendant No.1. It is contended that

the Defendant No.1 is the registered proprietor of the impugned mark

under Class-6 for iron and steel products and under Class-10, Class-11

Patil-SR (ch) 5 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

and Class-18. It is stated that except Class-10, which registration

application is also on proposed to be used basis, the Plaintiffs do not

have registration in other classes. The Plaintiffs have not secured any

registration for the standalone mark "BIRLA" and the registration

secured is for word Birla in conjunction with other words. 9. It is stated that prior adoption and use of the impugned marks

by the Defendant No.1 is since the year 2004. Since November, 2021,

the Defendant No.1 has ventured into the business of selling and

distributing e-bikes under the mark "BIRLA E-Bikes". Due to floods in

July, 2021, the office records of Defendant No.1 were washed away

and efforts are being made to obtain records from the purchasers. The

Defendant No.1 created the official website on 20 th August, 2018. It is

stated that prior adoption and user of the mark "BIRLA TMT" is highly

fanciful and inherently distinctive coined word. It is also stated that

the word Birla is common dictionary word. 10. The Defendant No.1 has placed on record the copies of

Defendant No.1's specimen invoices, purchase orders, certificates of

inspection evidencing the sale of products under its registered trade

mark. It is stated that the Defendant No.1 has acquired reputation and

goodwill as its products marketed under the trade marks"BIRLA" and

"BIRLA TMT" are supplied to various departments of Himachal

Pradesh and since the year 2018, the Defendant No.1 has entered into

Patil-SR (ch) 6 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

various franchise agreements in various States and have more than

1000 distributors across the country. The advertisement expenses and

sales figures have also been set out. 11. It is submitted that by reason of the massive advertisement and

promotion of Defendant No.1's product under its registered trade

mark on various renowned TV channels like NDTV, CNBC Awaz, Aaj Tak,

ABP News, ZEE News etc, the Plaintiffs had complete knowledge and

have acquiesced in the sale of Defendant's goods bearing the

Defendant's mark. 12. It is submitted that the Defendant No.1 has initiated legal

proceedings against the Defendant Nos.2 and 3 being C.S. No. 91 of

2022 and by order of 28th July 2022, the Defendant Nos.2 and 3 are

restrained from using the trade mark "BIRLA TMT". 13. The Defendant No.1 has contended that about 29 registrations

have been secured by third parties using the word "BIRLA" and there

are at least 84 corporate entities which use the word "BIRLA" as their

corporate name. It is further submitted that present proceedings

suffer from gross delay and laches as the Defendant No.1 has been

openly and extensively using their trade mark "BIRLA" and "BIRLA

WHITE" since the year 2004. It is further submitted that the Plaintiff

and Defendant No.1 have common dealers and their products are sold

through common trade channels. It is further submitted that the

Patil-SR (ch) 7 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

Defendant No.1 and the Plaintiffs, both had filed opposition against

the same trade mark applications seeking registration of the mark

containing the word "BIRLA" and after more than two years thereafter,

the present proceedings have been filed. 14. The Defendant Nos.2 and 3 have filed their affidavit-in-reply

contending that in the year 2017, they were offered franchise by the

Defendant No.6 on misrepresentation of being part of Birla group and

subsequently it was realised that there was no association with the

Birla group which led to issuance of legal notices and filing of court

proceedings. In its additional affidavit-in-reply, the Defendant No.1 has

set out the transactions with the Defendant No.3 and the subsequent

dispute which arose leading to the institution of civil and criminal

proceedings. 15. The Plaintiffs in their rejoinder affidavit have denied that the

Defendant Nos.2 and 3 were induced to do business using the

infringing mark and name "BIRLA" at the instance of the Defendant

Nos.1 and 6 who made lucrative offers to the Defendant No.2. It is

contended that the Defendant Nos.2 and 3 have acted in collusion with

the Defendant No.1 in misusing the infringing trade mark "BIRLA" and

the registration of mark in favour of the Defendant No.1 is fraudulent

and illegal and liable to be cancelled. 16. The Defendant No.4 - Birla Medicare Private Limited has justified

its incorporation using the word "BIRLA" by placing reliance on the

authorisation given by Defendant No.1 who is the registered

proprietor of word "BIRLA". The affidavit of the Defendant No.5

repeats the contents of affidavit filed by Defendant No.4. The affidavit-

in-reply of Defendant No.6 pleads misjoinder of parties and that the

grievance in the suit is restricted against the Defendant Nos.1 to 5. 17. In its rejoinder Affidavit, the Plaintiffs have contended that

there is no invoice / document produced by the Defendant No.1 to

demonstrate the use of impugned "BIRLA" mark since the year 2004.

There is not a single sale of impugned goods under the impugned

"BIRLA" mark from 2008 till March 2021 and the invoices produced do

not mention the impugned "BIRLA" mark. It is contended that the

Defendant No.1's registrations have been fraudulently obtained with a

view to ride upon the extensive goodwill and reputation of the Plaintiff

by concealing the factum of prior adoption, use and registration of

Plaintiff of their "BIRLA" mark and therefore this is a fit case for going

beyond the validity of registration. SUBMISSIONS : 18. Dr. Tulzapurkar, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the

Plaintiffs submits that the Plaintiffs are the prior adopters and user of

the "BIRLA" trade marks. He submits that infringement has occurred

Patil-SR (ch) 9 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

as the essential feature of the Plaintiffs registered trade mark i.e. the

word "BIRLA" has been copied and the added descriptive word by

Defendant No.1 is immaterial. He submits that the Defendant No.1's

adoption of the impugned trade marks is dishonest and contrary

stands are taken by stating that the word Birla is common dictionary

word and at the same time stating that the word Birla is inherently

distinctive coined composite word mark. He submits that the

Defendant No.1 having failed to conduct search of trade mark registry

before adoption of its mark has done so at its own peril. He submits

that the Defendant No.1 ought to have been aware of the goodwill and

reputation of Plaintiffs "BIRLA" trade mark at the time of its adoption.

He submits that as the impugned marks are deceptively similar,

honesty in adoption is immaterial. He submits that the Defendant No.1

is a habitual infringer as it has obtained fraudulent registration of

Jeendal Steel belonging to renowned third party. 19. He submits that the Lupin principles stand satisfied in the

present case as the registration of the mark is violative of Section 11 of

Trade Marks Act, 1999. He submits that as the registration is

fraudulent, this Court can go into the aspect of infringement under Section 29 of Trade Marks Act, 1999 considering that rival marks are

identical or deceptively similar. He submits that the fact that the

Plaintiffs hold no registration for the "BIRLA" trade mark in Classes-6,

Patil-SR (ch) 10 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

11 or 18 and its registration is under different class is immaterial

considering the well settled position in law that classification are mere

administrative guidelines. He submits that what is necessary to be

considered are the nature of goods, the purpose for which goods are

used and the trade channels and when so considered as the

Defendants goods are TMT bars and Plaintiffs trade mark is registered

in respect of building material, cement etc and there is trade

connection between the two. 20. He submits that case of infringement is made out under Sub- Sections 1 , 2(a) and 2(b) of Section 29 of Trade Marks Act. Without

prejudice, he submits that even if it is accepted that the goods are

dissimilar, case of infringement is made out under Section 29(4) of

Trade Marks Act, 1999 as "BIRLA" is a well known trade mark. He

submits that for infringement to result under Section 29(4) , it is not

necessary to demonstrate confusion. 21. Dr. Tulzapukar while addressing on the issue of passing off

submits that the Plaintiffs have established the ingredients necessary

for passing off as the sales figures, promotional material are all on

record. He submits that by using an identical trade mark, the

Defendant No.1 is misrepresenting that its goods bearing the

impugned trade mark are the Plaintiffs goods. He submits that as on

the date of commencement of use of the impugned trade mark from

Patil-SR (ch) 11 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

2008, the net sales of the Plaintiffs amounted to INR 495 crores. He

submits that the Defendant No.1 has not produced single document to

show sales since the year 2004 or even from the year 2008 till the 2021.

Pointing out to the invoices at Exhibit G-1 to G-192, he submits that the

invoices does not mention the impugned mark "BIRLA TMT". He

submits that there are only three invoices from the year 2021 to 2022

in which the mark is reflected and is evidently superimposed. He

submits that the Chartered Accountant's certificate by Defendant No.1

is not in respect of sales under the "BIRLA" marks but in respect of

overall business. 22. He submits that the defence of delay and acquiescence is not

available as the Plaintiffs became aware of the impugned marks only

upon receipt of legal notice from Defendant Nos.2 and 3. He submits

that mere delay will not come in the way of grant of injunction and the

Defendant No.1's adoption of the impugned mark was with full

knowledge of Plaintiff No.1's registration, the earliest being of the

year 1990 with user claim of the year 1988. He submits that for

acquiescence, there must be honesty in adoption of impugned mark

and a positive act on the part of Plaintiffs and not mere failure to sue. 23. He submits that the existence of other third party infringers is no

defence as it was necessary to establish extensive user by the third

parties to prove that the mark is common to the trade. He submits that

Patil-SR (ch) 12 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

the use by the Defendants of identical trade mark dilutes the Plaintiffs

Birla trade marks and it is only in unusual circumstances that the

balance of convenience comes into play. 24. In support, he relies upon the following decisions : 25. Mr. Kadam, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the

Defendant Nos.1, 4, 5 and 6 submits that the Plaintiffs case is

essentially based on the claim to the word "BIRLA" per se as being

exclusively associated with them alone. He has taken this Court

through the pleadings in the plaint and would submit that the plaint

conveys a false impression of entitlement to Birla mark which is traced

to the 19th century by pleading association with Birla family or Aditya

Birla Group of Companies without any document on record. He

submits that there is no document produced to demonstrate as to how

the trade mark Birla has devolved from an individual Shivnarayan Birla

to the Plaintiffs which are incorporate entities. He would further

submit that invoices produced by the Plaintiffs are from the year 2009

and the domain registration in the year 1999 does not establish that it

was in use since then. He submits that in view of the cloud over

Plaintiff's own title, no interim relief can be granted without evidence

being led. 26. He would further submit that the Defendant No.1 adopted its

"BIRLA TMT" trade mark for TMT steel and mild steel products in

34 1995 SCC OnLine Bom 312. 35 (2002) 2 SCC 147. 36 1991 SCC OnLine Bom 549. Class-6 in the year 2004 and the Plaintiffs does not manufacture or

market these products. He would further point out extract of Hindi

dictionary to contend that Birla is common Hindi word which means

uniqueness and rarity. He would further point out the purchase orders,

confirmation letters issued by distributors, invoices, ISO certificate

issued on 28th December 2009 and the agreements executed since the

year 2009 with Himachal Pradesh Government for supply of "BIRLA

TMT" products, the inspection certificates issued by the Government

Departments to show that since 2008, the goods were being sold by

the Defendant No.1 under its registered mark. He submits that since

the year 2004, the sales generated by Defendant No.1 is over Rs.1,560

crores. 27. He would further point out that the Defendant No.1's

commercial honesty is established from the material on record and

from the fact that the Defendant No.1 has openly advertised its

"BIRLA TMT" mark and products across print media, radio, social

media and national television. He submits that the Defendant No.1 has

presence in 17 States and has more than 1000 dealers and distributors

and have entered into various franchise agreements. He submits that

the promotional material on record would demonstrate that the

Defendant No.1 has never advertised or represented any connection

with the plaintiffs and thus there is no representation. 28. He further submits that the Defendant No.1 being the registered

proprietor of "BIRLA" trade mark, under Section 28(3) and Section

30(2)(e) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 has the right to use its registered

trade mark and the infringement under Section 29 of the Trade Marks

Act, 1999 occurs only where the use is by an unregistered proprietor.

He submits that Plaintiff's case for going beyond Defendant No.1's

registration is firstly on the ground that Defendant No.1's registrations

are ex facie illegal on the allegation that the Defendant No.1 has

produced fabricated invoices in support of another trade mark

application in Class-17 and secondly on the allegation that the

Plaintiffs trade marks are prior adopted and well known "BIRLA" mark.

He would submit that out of 112 trade mark registrations placed on

record at Exhibit-"A" of the plaint, there is not a single trade mark

registration in the class in which the Defendant No.1 has obtained

registration. He submits that out of 112 trade mark registrations, only

20 registrations are prior to the Defendant No.1's registration and that

too in Class-19 for white cement, cement putty, etc., He submits that it

is well settled that the registration of trade mark qua certain goods in

the class does not confer monopoly over the entire class of goods. He

would further submit that the allegation of fabricated invoices

submitted in support of pending trade mark application of 2016 cannot

unsettle the trade mark registration granted in the year 2008. He

Patil-SR (ch) 17 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

submits that the issue of fabricated invoices in pending registration

application can be gone into by the Registrar. 29. Mr. Kadam would tender a convenience compilation which

includes the annexures to the written statement and would point out

the confirmation letters in favour of the Defendant No.1 certifying sale

of the Defendant No.1's "BIRLA TMT" steel bar since the year 2008.

He would further submit that Plaintiff's own statement while

prosecuting and pursuing the registration of its "BIRLA" mark contains

admissions which demolishes its case of exclusivity over "BIRLA" mark

per se and points out to the stand taken by the Plaintiffs which is

annexed to Defendant No.4's written statement. He points out that

conflicting trade marks containing the word Birla were cited and in

response the Plaintiffs made no claim to exclusivity but in fact

accepted that the cited marks are wholly dissimilar notwithstanding

the fact that the word Birla formed part thereof. He submits that while

obtaining its registration, the Plaintiffs made no claim of prior user

dating back to 19th century or any family arrangement, which is now

sought to be raised in the present proceedings. He would, therefore

invoke the doctrine of prosecution history estoppel to resist the claim

of infringement. He submits that even if the documents were part of

the written statement, it was open for the Plaintiffs to file replication

to the written statement. 30. He would further submit that there are 29 third party trade mark

proprietors using the mark Birla for their products and at least 113

pending trade mark applications. He would further submit that there

are 84 corporate entities having no connection or association with Birla

group which use Birla as part of their corporate name. 31. He would submit that Plaintiffs claim of the "BIRLA" mark being

a well known trade mark is not supported by any documentary

evidence and the orders relied upon have no evidentiary value as those

are ex parte or interlocutory orders or consent decrees without any

adjudication on the merits. 32. Mr. Kadam would further submit that for succeeding in an action

for passing off, the existence of goodwill is requisite which is a

question of fact to be proved by adducing cogent evidence. He

submits that the relevant date for determining Plaintiff's necessary

reputation and goodwill is of year 2004 when the Defendant No.1

adopted its registered mark and at the highest the Plaintiffs have

established the goodwill only from 2009. He submits that the

promotional material on record is sufficient to establish that the

Defendant No.1 has not even remotely misrepresented about its

connection with the plaintiffs. 33. He would further submit that the Defendant Nos.2 and 3 are

disgruntled franchisees and at no point of time, the Defendant No.1

Patil-SR (ch) 19 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

misrepresented to the Defendant Nos.2 and 3 that it was associated or

connected with Aditya Birla Group of Companies. He submits that the

dispute between the Defendant No.2 and 3 has resulted in Court

proceedings and as a counterblast, the present allegations are made. 34. Mr. Kadam would further submit that the Plaintiffs cannot claim

to be unaware of the existence of Defendant No.1, considering the

wide scale advertisement by the Defendant No.1 across national

newspapers and television and in view of the fact that the Defendant

No.1's mark was cited in opposition to the plaintiffs trade mark

application in the year 2018. He submits that the Defendant No.1 has

been permitted to build up its reputation and business through the use

of "BIRLA TMT" mark which has been running since last 20 years and

considering the sale turnover of over Rs.1,500 crores for the last 20

years, the balance of convenience is in favour of the Defendant No.1. 35. In support, he relies upon the following decisions : He would further submit that as the rival products are construction

material used in the same trade sector and sold through the same

trade channels, there is similarity of the goods.

REASONS AND ANALYSIS : mark and its formative marks secured by Birla group of companies in

respect of its diverse products which marks have become distinctive of

the BIRLA group (c) the Plaintiffs being part of the Birla group and thus

acquires right to use the "BIRLA" trade mark and formative trade

marks by internal arrangement or the right being devolved upon the

Plaintiffs through the Birla group of companies. 42. The plaint makes reference to the internal arrangement between

Birla group of companies which includes the Plaintiff No.1 without

placing the internal arrangement on record. The Plaintiffs appears to

be harboring a misconception that reference to the well known name

of Birla family is sufficient to accept the exclusive right of Plaintiffs to

use the "BIRLA" trade marks. The plaint pleads that Plaintiff No.1 is a

Patil-SR (ch) 25 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

limited company incorporated in the year 1947 in textile business and

there is not even a bare assertion of user of the "BIRLA" trade mark by

the Plaintiff No.1 in the year 1947 for marketing its textiles. 43. The plaint while tracing the origin of the Birla trade mark to 19 th

century when the trade in cotton was commenced by Seth Shiv

Narayan Birla does not plead that the trading by Shiv Narayan Birla was

under the "BIRLA" trade mark. The claim of the Aditya Birla Group

being the user of "BIRLA" trade mark since the year 1996 is not

substantiated by any document. 44. The history of origin and user of the "BIRLA" trade mark, its

reputation and goodwill, the prior registration of domain name by Birla

group of companies cannot assist the case of the Plaintiffs sans any

material to demonstrate connection between the Plaintiffs and Birla

group of companies. The pleading in paragraph 29 of the plaint is that

the website www.birlawhite.com is maintained by Aditya Birla

Management Corporation Pvt Ltd since 1st November, 1999. Perusal of

Exhibit "L" at page 436 shows that the name of the organisation is

Ultratech Cement Ltd and not Aditya Birla Management Corporation

Ltd. There is no averment in the plaint to justify this connection

between the domain name and Ultratech Cement Ltd. The pleadings

per se cannot confer any benefits associated with the Birla trade marks

upon the Plaintiffs. 45. Though it was sought to be contended that the Defendant No.1

has not taken any plea raising cloud over the Plaintiff's title, the

burden is upon the Plaintiffs to make out a prima facie case for grant of

interim relief. The entire edifice is built by the Plaintiffs upon its

association with Birla group which is required to be prima facie

established by the Plaintiffs, if it seeks to derive any benefit from the

association. It needs to be noted that the present suit has been filed

under the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 and the provisions of Order-XI Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 in its application to the

commercial courts mandates filing of all documents relied upon by the

Plaintiffs. The Plaintiffs claim to exclusive right to use the word

"BIRLA" as part of its trademark which stemmed from the association

with the Birla group of companies is prima facie doubtful. 46. As all reference to Birla group is unsubstantiated, that leaves the

Plaintiffs with the claim of being a registered proprietor of its trade

mark which has instituted an action for infringement of its registered

trade mark. Excluding any association with the Birla group, there is not

much difference between the Plaintiff No.1 and the Defendant No.1

which are both registered proprietors of their respective trade marks

containing the word Birla. The Plaintiff No.1 claims to be the

subsequent proprietor of the registered trade mark "BIRLA WHITE",

which trade mark was registered by Indian Rayon and Industries

Patil-SR (ch) 27 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

Limited in the year 1999 with user claim of 1988. Perusal of the

registration certificates in respect of the trade mark "BIRLA WHITE" came to be transferred to the Plaintiff No.1 from Indian Rayon and

Industries Ltd. The scheme of arrangement is not placed on record and

surprisingly neither the Form TM-23 dated 4 th March, 2005 and the

order dated 13th April, 2013 permitting the Plaintiff No.1 to be brought

on record as subsequent proprietor. That apart, there is not a single

document produced on record to demonstrate user of the trademark

by Indian Rayon and Industries Ltd since the year 1988. 47. The position that emerges is that prima facie the Plaintiff No.1

cannot claim benefit of the prior user and registration of the mark

Birla White qua Indian Rayon and Industries Ltd and loses its claim of

user since the year 1988 through its purported predecessor in title.

Coming to the registrations secured by the Plaintiffs, Exhibit "A" of the

plaint lists about 112 registrations, however, there is not a single

registration of the stand alone word Birla and with the exclusion of the

registration No.524399 and 524400, the earliest registration is of

Patil-SR (ch) 28 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

"BIRLA COASTAL" on 12th January 2001 which is at Exhibit-B3 under

registration No. 983400 in Class-19 and registration of the mark

"BIRLA WHITE WALL CARE" of 31st May, 2001. 48. The earliest sales invoice annexed at Exhibit P4 at page 442 of

the plaint is dated 2nd November, 2009 which reflects the trade mark

"BIRLA WHITE". The Chartered Accountant's certificate certifying the

sales as well as the advertisement expenses under the trade mark

"BIRLA WHITE" in so far as the Plaintiff No.1 is concerned is for the

period 2007-2008 and in respect of Plaintiff No. 2 is from the year 2010

to 2011. There is no document to substantiate the use of the mark

"BIRLA WHITE" or "BIRLA COASTAL" from the year 2001, when the

registrations were secured, till atleast 2007-2008. Prima facie it

appears that after securing registration of its trade mark in the year

2001, there was no use of the mark atleast till 2007-2008, by which

time the Defendant No.1 claims to have commenced the use of the

mark. 49. Insofar as the Defendant No.1's registration is concerned, the

Defendant No.1 claims use of the registered mark since April 2004. The

registration certificates of the Defendant No.1 annexed at page 593

onwards show the earliest registration under Registration No.1766133

of the trademark "BIRLA" on 22nd December 2008. The claim of

Defendant No.1 is that the mark has been in use by the Defendant No.1

Patil-SR (ch) 29 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

since April 2004 in Class-6, i.e., M.S. bar (TMT), M.S. round, M. S. angle,

M. S. channel, M. S. Flat, M. S. girder, M.S. Square, SS flat. The invoices

placed on record from pages 312 till 494 does not reflect the mark

"BIRLA TMT". It is only in the invoices of the year 2022 that the mark is

reflected. Apart from the invoices, the Defendant No.1 has placed on

record purchase orders dated 27th October, 2008, 6th May, 2009 and 23rd

October, 2008 showing orders placed for products under the "BIRLA

TMT" mark. The contention of Defendant No.1 is that by reason of

floods in the year 2021, the entire record of Defendant No.1 was

washed away and certificates were obtained from the purchasers in

order to demonstrate the sale under its mark. The Defendant No.1 has

placed on record the complaint lodged with the police authorities

stating that it's records were destroyed by muddy water and also the

photographs of the damage caused. The certificates which are at page

528 to 576 show the earliest sale under the trademark being of the

year 2008-2009. What we have on record are certificates issued by

purchasers, an ISO certification of the year 2009, the certificate of

inspection by Assistant Engineer, Himachal Pradesh of the year 2009.

There can be no reason to doubt the government documents. The

genuineness of the invoices are disputed by the Plaintiffs. Even

disregarding the invoices, there is sufficient material produced on

record by the Defendant No.1 to prima facie demonstrate that at least

Patil-SR (ch) 30 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

from 2008, the Defendant No.1 has sold its products under the

registered trade mark "BIRLA TMT". 50. Though by way of convenience compilation, documents forming

part of the written statement was sought to be relied upon, an

objection was raised by Dr. Tulzapurkar that these documents which

did not form part of the reply Affidavits cannot be considered as the

Plaintiffs did not have the opportunity to deal with the same. I am in

agreement with the submission of Dr. Tulzapurkar. The Defendant

No.1 has filed detailed reply affidavits and produced voluminous

documents. There is no explanation as to why these documents

forming part of written statement were not part of the reply affidavits.

The Plaintiffs did not have an opportunity to deal with the documents

and it is no answer to say that the Plaintiffs could have filed replication.

In my view, the principles of fairness and equity demand that

documents should have been part of the reply affidavits so that the

Plaintiffs could have had an opportunity to deal with the same.

Further, the convenience compilation was tendered only during the

Defendant's arguments after the Plaintiffs had finished their

arguments and therefore the Plaintiffs did not have an opportunity to

deal with the same except by way of rejoinder which is a limited

answer. In that view of the matter, I am not inclined to consider the

documents or the pleadings or the decisions cited about prosecution

Patil-SR (ch) 31 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

history estoppel which plea is part of the written statement and absent

in reply Affidavits. 51. What we have is the claim of the Plaintiff No.1 which is a limited

company who has acquired registration of the trade mark "BIRLA

COASTAL" and formative marks using word Birla as part of its mark,

with the earliest registration being of the year 2001 and the user prima

facie demonstrated from 2007-2008 as against the Defendant No.1

who has obtained registration of the mark "BIRLA" and formative

marks using the word Birla and has prima facie demonstrated user since

the year 2008. With this background of the respective dates of

registration and user of the rival marks, the issues of infringement and

passing off are required to be considered. Without evidence being led,

it is not possible to accept that user of the mark by Defendant No.1 is

from the year 2004 or that the user by the Plaintiffs pre-decessor was

since the year 1988. 52. The Plaintiff No.1 and the Defendant No.1 are both registered

proprietor of their respective trademarks which trademarks resemble

each other. There are certain provisions of the Trade Marks Act which

indicates that the enactment admits of more than one proprietor and

saves the rights vested by virtue of registration in respect of identical

or nearly resembling trade marks. The registration of identical or

similar trade marks is permitted by Section 12 of the Trade Marks Act,

Patil-SR (ch) 32 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

in respect of similar goods in case of honest concurrent use or other

special circumstances. The other provision which admits of existence of

more than one proprietor is Section 28 of the Trade Marks Act, and

Sub-Section (3) of Section 28 recognises the rights conferred by virtue

of registration of the trade marks on the proprietors of identical or

nearly resembling trade marks by prohibiting the claim of exclusive

right to use the trade mark against the other registered proprietor. The

other provision is Section 30(2)(e) of the Trade Marks Act which

provides that the registered trade mark is not infringed by use of

registered trade mark being an identical registered trade mark in

exercise of right to use given by registration. We also need to note the

provisions of Section 31 of Trade Marks Act, which provides for

registration to be prima facie evidence of validity. 53. The infringement is claimed under the provisions of Sub-Sections

(1), 2(a) and 2(b) of Section 29 of the Trademarks Act. Section 29 contemplates infringement where the use of the infringing trade mark

is by a person who is not the registered proprietor. The circumstances

in which infringement occurs under Section 29(1) to (4) is not

envisaged against the registered proprietor of trade mark. 54. Despite the above statutory position qua Section 29 of Trade

Marks Act under Section 28(1) , it is only the validity of registration of

trade mark which gives the registered proprietor the exclusive right to

Patil-SR (ch) 33 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

use the trade mark in relation to the goods or services. The expression

"if valid" occurring in Section 28(1) came to be interpreted by the

Hon'ble Full Bench of this Court in Lupin Ltd vs Johnson and Johnson (supra) where the Full Bench considered whether the Court can go into

the question of validity of registration of the trademark at an

interlocutory stage. The Hon'ble Full Bench held that the words "if

valid" occurring in Section 28 and "prima facie evidence of title" in Section 31 supports the stand that the defence of invalidity of

registration of the trademark can be considered at the interlocutory

stage. The Hon'ble Full Bench held in paragraph 55 as under: 55. The Hon'ble Full Bench held that at the interlocutory stage, the

Civil Court is not to embark upon and evolve factual inquiry, but the

Civil Court hearing the application for interim injunction to restrain the

Patil-SR (ch) 34 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

Defendant from using the trade mark registered in the Plaintiff's

name, is only permitted to consider whether the registration is totally

illegal or fraudulent or shocks the conscience of the Court. The

Hon'ble Full Bench held that it is only in such exceptional circumstances

that the Court may decline to grant relief in favour of Plaintiff. By

limiting the exceptional circumstances in which the validity of

registered trade mark can be gone into, the Hon'ble Full Bench has left

a very small window to challenge the validity of the registration. 56. The Plaintiffs have based its challenge to the validity of

Defendant No.1's registration as being violative of Section 11(1) , 11(2) and 11(3)(a) of the Trade Marks Act, which provides for the relative

grounds for refusal of registration and reads as under: 57. The pleading in this context can be found in paragraph 47 of the

plaint. It is pleaded that the Defendant No.1 has fraudulently obtained

trade mark registration of "BIRLA" marks listed in the said paragraph.

The list makes a reference to about six registrations of Birla marks in

Class-6, 10, 11 and 18. The list does not include the Defendant No.1's

application No.3196319 in Class-17 which is pending registration. The

claim of fraudulent registration is based on the purported forged and

fraudulent invoices filed along with the trade mark application bearing

No.3196319. It is incomprehensible that the subsequent pending

registration application, which is claimed to be supported by forged

and fabricated invoices, can form the basis for assailing the validity of

registered trade marks of Defendant No.1. As the application is

pending for registration before the Registrar, the authenticity of those

invoices will be decided by the Registrar. It is contended that these

invoices are also annexed by the Defendant No.1 to the present

proceedings. The invoices are of the year 2020-2021 and cannot form

the basis for assailing the registrations secured in the prior years. 58. The other ground on which the Plaintiffs have assailed the

Defendant No.1's registrations is the Defendant No.1's adoption of

identical and deceptively similar "BIRLA" mark. The said pleading is

premised on the violation of Section 11 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999.

The provisions of Section 11(1) of the Trade Marks Act, dealing with

relative grounds of refusal provides that the trade mark shall not be

registered if by reason of identity / similarity with the earlier trade

mark and identity or similarity of the goods or services covered by the

trade mark, there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of public

which includes the likelihood of association with the earlier trade mark.

For Section 11(1) of the Trade Marks, 1999 to apply by reason of

identity of the trade marks, there should exist a likelihood of confusion

which includes likelihood of association with the Plaintiff No.1's mark.

In the instant case, the Defendant No.1's mark has been registered in

the year 2008 and has been in use since then. There is not a single

pleading in the plaint to prima facie demonstrate the likelihood of

confusion or likely association with the Plaintiff No.1's mark. The

pleading is only that the rival marks are identical or deceptively similar.

It is not the mere identity or similarity of rival marks which constitutes

ground for refusing registration but the likelihood of confusion or

likely association with the earlier trade mark arising by reason of

identity or similarity of trade marks. 59. Sub-Section (2) of Section 11 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999

provides that there shall not be registration of identical trade mark in

respect of the dissimilar goods if the earlier trade mark is a well-known

trade mark in India and the use of later mark without due cause would

take unfair advantage of or be detrimental to the distinctive character

or repute of the earlier trade mark. 60. Section 2(zg) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 defines the term "well

known trade mark" means a mark which has become so to the

substantial segment of public which uses such goods that the use of

such mark in relation to other goods or services would be likely to be

taken as indicating a connection in the course of trade or rendering of

services between those goods or services and a person using the mark

in relation to the first-mentioned goods or services. The test of well

known trade mark in Section 2(zg) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 is qua

the segment of public which uses such goods. The "BIRLA" mark even

if accepted to be a well known mark, the Plaintiffs have failed to

demonstrate prima facie association with the Birla group of companies

or the internal arrangement by which Plaintiffs have the right to use

the "BIRLA" trade mark. The aspect of invalidity of registration would

have taken a different colour if there was material on record to

demonstrate the connection between the Plaintiffs and the Birla

Group of Companies and the devolvement of "BIRLA" trade mark

Patil-SR (ch) 38 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

upon the Plaintiffs. Sans any prima facie connection with the Birla

group of companies, the simultaneous user of the Plaintiff No.1 and

the Defendant No.1 of the registered trade marks containing the word

Birla cannot be said to be detrimental to the distinctive character or

repute of Plaintiffs trade mark. 61. Section 11(3)(a) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 provides for refusal

of registration if its use is liable to be prevented by any law and in

particular the law of passing off protecting an unregistered trade mark

used in the course of trade. The registration will be refused by

considering the law of passing off which protects an unregistered

trade mark, which is not established in the present case. 62. The decision of Lupin Ltd. v. Johnson & Johnson (supra) casts a

heavy burden to demonstrate the ex facie illegality in granting

registration to the trade mark. The threshold to be met is not that of

prima facie arguable case of invalidity but a higher threshold of ex facie

illegality or fraud or which shocks the conscience of the Court. It needs

to be noted that registration of the trademark confers statutory rights

on the proprietor which should not be interfered with lightly. The

registration of the mark in favour of Defendant No.1 gives protection

to the Defendant No. 1 to use of the mark, which use can be interfered

with by the Court at interlocutory stage in exceptional circumstances. (See Mangalam Organics Ltd vs N Ranga Rao and Sons Pvt Ltd62). 63. In my view, the Plaintiffs have not discharged the burden cast

upon them for this Court to go beyond the validity of Defendant's

registration. As the Plaintiffs have failed to make out a prima facie

case for this Court to go beyond the validity of Defendant No.1's

registration, Section 29 of Trade Marks Act, 1999 will not come to the

aid of the Plaintiffs and no right to sue for infringement can be invoked

against the Defendant No.1. It is therefore not necessary for this Court

to delve into the question of similarity of rival goods or the issue of

classification. All these considerations are relevant to decide the

aspect of infringement under Section 29(1) to (4) of the Trade Marks

Act, 1999 . The decisions cited at the bar as regards the tests to be

applied for considering the similarity of goods or the deceptive

similarity of the rival trade marks or classification are not required to

be considered. 64. Dealing with the case of passing off, the registration of marks or

common field of activity is irrelevant for considering an action for

passing off. A passing off action is common law remedy available for

protection of the reputation and goodwill against misrepresentation

by another. It is well settled proposition that in passing off action the

Plaintiffs have to prove goodwill and reputation, likelihood of damage

62 Interim Application (Ld.) No.7446 of 2025 in Com.IP Suit No. 194 of 2025 decided on 3-9-2025. to the Plaintiff's goodwill and misrepresentation by the Defendant. 65. The relevant date for deciding the reputation and goodwill

existing is the date of use by the Defendant No.1 of its trade mark.

Prima facie the records indicate user of the mark by the Defendant

No.1 since the year 2008. The Plaintiffs are required to show goodwill

and reputation acquired by the Plaintiffs in respect of its mark on the

date of adoption by the Defendant No.1 i.e. in the year 2008 and that

the Plaintiff's mark has acquired such distinctiveness that the

consumers identify the registered mark with the Plaintiff's product.

The sales figure and promotional expenses for the year 2007-2008 is

about 495 crores and 16.19 crores respectively. Prima facie the

Plaintiffs have commenced the use of its registered trade mark in or

around the year 2007 and the Defendant No.1 in or around the year

2008. It cannot be expected that within a period of one year, the

Plaintiff No.1's mark has achieved such distinctiveness so that the

relevant consumer base would associate the Defendant No.1's goods

as that of the Plaintiffs. The Plaintiffs are required to demonstrate

prior continuous user of its mark which has achieved distinctiveness in

the minds of the public. The reference to the awards in paragraph 24

of plaint shows that the same are of the year 2018 onwards and there

is no mention that the awards are conferred qua the registered trade

marks. The Plaintiffs registered mark is Birla Coastal, Birla Super, Birla

Patil-SR (ch) 41 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

White Wall Care, Birla White Textura etc whereas the Defendant No.1's

mark is Birla, Birla TMT, Birla e-bike. The word Birla when used does

not immediately signify the commercial origin of the goods associated

with the Plaintiffs as in the case of Kodak or Honda. The Plaintiff No.1

does not possess any independent registration for the word "BIRLA"

but for the word "BIRLA" in conjunction with other words. It is not

necessary to prove actual deception but an action for passing off

requires proof of likelihood of confusion or deception. The Defendant

No.1 has been using the impugned trade mark "BIRLA TMT" prima

facie atleast from the year 2008 and the present suit has been filed in

the year 2022. In event there was likelihood of confusion being caused

or likely association with the Plaintiffs product, there would have

occurred some instance of confusion or association within this long

span of about 14 years. It is also not prima facie demonstrated that by

reason of the use by the Defendant No.1 of the impugned marks, the

plaintiffs business reputation is likely to be affected or is affected. 66. The question to be asked as set out in Ruston & Hornsby Ltd v.

The Zamindara Engineering Co.63 is whether the Defendant No.1 is

selling the goods so marked as to be designed or calculated to lead

purchasers to believe that they are the Plaintiff's goods. The

Defendant No.1 has placed on record the printout of its webpages, its

63 (1969) 2 SCC 727. promotional activities through different mediums. The promotional

material from Page 287 while describing its products specifically

mentions that the product is manufactured and marketed by the

Defendant No.1. The franchise agreements placed on record makes no

reference to the Birla Group of Companies nor gives any impression of

any connection with the Birla Group. The Defendant No.1 has carried

out extensive promotion of its product, which material is placed on

record, and the promotional material markets the product without any

reference to the Birla Group of Companies. 67. In Cadilla Health Care Ltd vs Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd

(supra) the Hon'ble Apex Court laid down the parameters to be applied

in a passing off action involving deceptive similarity of marks as under: 36. Weightage to be given to each of the aforesaid factors
 depending upon facts of each case and the same weightage
 cannot be given to each factor in every case." 68. In Pernod Ricard India Private Limited v. Karanveer Singh

Chhabra64 , the Hon'ble Apex Court held in paragraph 29 as under: A passing off action applies to both registered and
 unregistered marks, and is rooted in the principle that one
 trader should not unfairly benefit from the reputation built
 by another. In contrast, an action for trademark
 infringement is a statutory remedy under the Trade Marks
 Act, 1999 available only in relation to registered
 trademarks. It is intended to safeguard the exclusive
 proprietary rights that registration confers. 29.1. A key distinction between the two lies in the
 requirements of proof. In an infringement action, the
 plaintiff is not required to establish the distinctiveness or
 goodwill of the mark - registration, by itself, affords the
 right to seek protection. If the impugned mark is shown to
 be identical or deceptively similar to the registered mark, no
 further evidence of confusion or deception is necessary.
 However, in a passing off action, the plaintiff must prove: (i)
 the existence of goodwill or reputation in the mark, (ii) a
 misrepresentation made by the defendant, and (iii) a
 likelihood of damage to the plaintiff's goodwill.

 29.2. While an intent to deceive is not a necessary
 element in either action, passing off requires proof of a
 likelihood of confusion or deception. It is well settled that
64 2025 SCC OnLine SC 1701. actual deception or damage need not be proved - the test is
 whether confusion is probable in the mind of the average
 consumer due to the similarity in the marks or the overall
 get-up of the goods. 29.3. Another key distinction is that in a passing off
 action, the defendant's goods need not be identical to
 those of the plaintiff - they may be allied or even unrelated,
 provided the misrepresentation is such that it affects or is
 likely to affect the plaintiff's business reputation. In
 contrast, infringement requires that the unauthorised use
 relate to the same or similar goods or services for which the
 trademark is registered. 29.4. Additionally, in an infringement suit, it is not
 necessary for the plaintiff to establish use of the mark; even
 a registered proprietor who has not commenced use can sue
 for infringement. However, in a passing off action, the
 plaintiff must demonstrate prior and continuous use, and
 that the mark has acquired distinctiveness in the minds of
 the public. 29.5. Thus, while both actions seek to prevent unfair
 competition and protect against consumer confusion, an
 action for infringement offers broader statutory protection
 based solely on registration and ownership. In contrast,
 passing off is grounded in equitable principles and imposes
 a higher evidentiary burden to safeguard commercial
 goodwill under common law." [Emphasis Supplied]. 69. Applying the tests laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court, the rival

products i.e. steel and cement are used in construction business. The

consumers of these products are usually businessmen engaged in

construction business placing bulk purchase orders. The test to be

applied in such cases is different from the test to be applied in respect

of ordinary class of products bought over the shelf by general class of

consumers. The class of buyers of the rival products would be well

Patil-SR (ch) 45 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

informed about the origin of product and ordinarily will not be misled

by considering only the brand name. It is unlikely that the class of

developers and builders would be misled in believing that the

Defendant No.1's goods are that of the Plaintiffs. The invoices raised

by the respective parties would indicate the use of trade name and not

merely the trade mark. The rival products are such that they would not

be bought without deliberation and without checking the source as

quality is important aspect in case of building material. There are no

submissions canvassed for consideration of this Court as regards the

use of the mark in respect of e-bikes. 70. As far as the contention regarding the dishonest adoption of the

trade mark by the Defendant No.1 is concerned, in Kores (India) Ltd vs

Khoday Eshwara & Sons (supra), it has been held in the context of Section 12(3) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 that honesty of user is

commercial honesty and that fact of knowledge loses much of its

significance when honesty of user is established. The Defendant No.1

has secured registrations in respect of products which the Plaintiffs

does not manufacture. The Plaintiffs claim dishonesty in adoption as

the mark Birla is well-known trade mark and the Defendant No.1

adopted the mark to encash the goodwill and reputation of Birla mark.

Firstly, the Plaintiffs have prima facie failed to demonstrate association

with Birla family or Birla group of companies. There is no pleading that

Patil-SR (ch) 46 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

the Directors of the Plaintiffs are members of Birla family. The

adoption by the Plaintiffs of the mark Birla is no different from

adoption by the Defendant No.1. Secondly, the dishonest adoption can

be in order to ride upon the goodwill and reputation of the Plaintiffs.

The Defendant No.1 has been openly and extensively advertising its

products marketed under the impugned marks in print, national

television and social media. The promotional material of the

Defendant No.1 placed on record does not mention even remotely any

connection or association with the Plaintiffs or Birla group.

Pertinently, though the Defendant Nos.2 and 3 alleged

misrepresentation on the ground of purported consent letter put forth

by the Defendant No.6 while granting franchise to the Defendant No 2,

no such letter has been produced on record. 71. There is no quarrel with the ratio of the decisions laid down in Ciba Ltd. Basle Switzerland v. M. Ramalingam ( supra), Suzuki Motor

v. Suzuki (India) Ltd (supra), Schering Corporation v. Kilitch Co.

(Pharma) Pvt. Ltd ( supra) and Aktiebolaget Volvo of Sweden v. Volvo

Steels Ltd. of Gujrat (India ) (supra). However, its applicability to the

facts of present case is debatable. Insofar as the decision of Cadila

Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Sami Khatib of Mumbai (supra), the

observations of learned Single Judge were made in context of passing

off action. Apart from honesty in adoption, there are several factors to

Patil-SR (ch) 47 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

be taken into consideration and when so considered no case for

passing off is made out by the Plaintiffs herein. 72. The registrations secured by the Defendant No.1 permits it to

use the word Birla as part of its domain name. The pleading in the

plaint is that the Plaintiff group company Aditya Birla Management

Corporation Pvt Ltd maintains the website www.birlawhite.com since

the year 1999. The extract of Whois website shows that the

organisation is Ultratech Cement Ltd in respect of the domain name

birlawhite.com. There is no clarity in the pleadings as regards the

registration of domain name by the Birla group of companies in the

year 1999. In any event, it is required to be pointed out that the

domain name was not merely blocked but was put to use since the year

1999. Section 29(5) of Trade Marks Act applies where the registered

trade mark is used as part of business / corporate name provided the

business of infringer is of dealing with the goods or services in respect

of which trade mark is registered. Apart from the fact that the

Defendant No.1 uses its registered trade mark as part of its domain

name, the condition of use of the domain name in respect of goods for

which Plaintiffs trade mark is registered is not satisfied. 73. The legal principles governing grant of injunction were laid down

in Pernod Ricard India Private Limited v. Karanveer Singh Chhabra (supra) in paragraph 36 as under: "36. The Trade Marks Act, 1999 does not prescribe any
 rigid or exhaustive criteria for determining whether a mark
 is likely to deceive or cause confusion. Each case must
 necessarily be decided on its own facts and circumstances,
 with judicial precedents serving to illuminate the applicable
 tests and guiding principles rather than to dictate
 outcomes. 36.1. As a general rule, a proprietor whose statutory or
 common law rights are infringed is entitled to seek an
 injunction to restrain further unlawful use. However, this
 remedy is not absolute. The considerations governing the
 grant of injunctions in trademark infringement actions
 broadly apply to passing off claims as well. That said, a
 fundamental distinction remains: while a registered
 proprietor may, upon proving infringement, seek to restrain
 all use of the infringing mark, a passing off action does not
 by itself confer an exclusive right. In appropriate cases, the
 court may mould relief in passing off so as to permit
 continued use by the defendant, provided it does not result
 in misrepresentation or deception. 36.2. The grant of injunction - whether for infringement
 or passing off - is ultimately governed by equitable
 principles and is subject to the general framework
 applicable to proprietary rights. Where actual infringement
 is established, that alone may justify injunctive relief; a
 plaintiff is not expected to wait for further acts of defiance.
 As judicially observed, "the life of a trademark depends upon
 the promptitude with which it is vindicated." 36.3. The principles laid down in American Cyanamid Co.
 v. Ethicon Ltd. [1975] 1 All ER 504 continue to guide the
 Courts while determining interim injunction applications in
 trademark cases. The following criteria are generally
 applied: the remedy of damages may be inadequate. In such cases,
 irreparable harm is presumed. (v) Public interest: In matters involving public health,
 safety, or widely consumed goods, courts may consider
 whether the public interest warrants injunctive relief to
 prevent confusion or deception in the marketplace.

 36.4. In conclusion, the grant of an interim injunction in
 trademark matters requires the court to consider multiple
 interrelated factors: prima facie case, likelihood of
 confusion, relative merits of the parties' claims, balance of
 convenience, risk of irreparable harm, and the public
 interest. These considerations operate cumulatively, and
 the absence of any one of these may be sufficient to decline
 interim relief." 74. The considerations applicable to grant of interim injunction in

trade mark matters are prima facie case, likelihood of confusion,

relative merits of the parties claims, balance of convenience, risk of

irreparable harm and public interest and absence of any one is

sufficient to decline interim relief. It has been held that passing off is

grounded in equitable principles and imposes a higher evidentiary

burden to safeguard commercial goodwill under common law. Apart

Patil-SR (ch) 50 of 51
 IA 3888-2022.doc

 from the fact that the Plaintiffs have failed to make out a prima facie

 case of infringement or passing off, what tilts the scales in favour of

 the Defendant No.1 is the registration and user of its registered trade

 mark atleast since the year 2008. There is sufficient promotional

 material placed on record to demonstrate the active advertising carried

 out by the Defendant No.1 atleast since the year 2016. It is difficult to

 accept that the Plaintiffs were blissfully unaware of the use by the

 Defendant No.1 of its registered trade mark. Though it is well settled

 that delay by itself if not a defence available in infringement action,

 considering that the Defendant No.1 is carrying on its business using

 its registered trade mark since the year 2008, the grant of interim

 relief of injunction at this juncture would result in irreparable loss to

 the Defendant No.1 apart from other considerations as discussed

 above. It would balance the equities, if the Defendant No.1 is directed

 to maintain the accounts of sales of its product till the disposal of the

 suit as directed in case of Kamat Hotels (India) Ltd. v. R. O. H. Ltd.

 (supra). 75. In light of the above discussion, the Interim Application is

 dismissed with direction to the Defendant No.1 to maintain accounts

 of its sales under the impugned trade marks till the final disposal of the

 suit.