Heard Mr. Kalyan Dilip Sunkara, learned counsel for the petitioner

and Mr. T. Srikanth Reddy, learned Government Pleader for Home

appearing on behalf of the respondents. 2. This writ petition is filed to declare the action of the

respondents in registering multiple FIRs arising out of the same cause of

action against the husband of the petitioner as illegal; for a consequential

direction to the respondent police to refrain from registering further FIRs

against the husband of the petitioner; for treating any existing or future

FIRs or complaints made by persons in relation to the actions forming

part of the investigation under one FIR as additional witness statements. 3. FACTS: 4. CONTENTIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER: ` 4 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 iii) The husband of the petitioner was arrested on 28.08.2021. IN

recent past 8 crimes were registered against the husband of the petitioner,

5 crimes were registered for abusing the Chief Minister of Telangana

State and 3 crimes for using der4ogqatory and abusive language against

the Inspector of Police, Chilkalguda Police Station with respect to the

allegations from very same cause of action. iv) All 35 crimes were registered against the husband of the

petitioner at different police stations of Telangana State for different

offences on the complaints lodged by different de facto complainants. v) Registration of multiple FIRs on the same allegations which

arise out of the same cause of action is impermissible. Registration of

multiple FIRs violates Articles - 19 (1) (a) and 21 of the Constitution of

India. It is also violative of the procedure laid down under the Cr.P.C .

and also contrary to the principles laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court and this Court in a catena of judgments. It is a vindictive attitude. vi) With the aforesaid submissions, the learned counsel sought a

direction against the respondent police to refrain them from registering

further FIRs against the husband of the petitioner. 5. CONTENTIONS ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS: 06.09.2021 and Crime No.283 of 2021 of Chatrinaka Police Station was

closed on 10.09.2021 after obtaining necessary permission from the

concerned Assistant Commissioners of Police on the ground of mistake

of fact / double jeopardy. Now, only one Crime No.274 of 2021 of

Gandhi Nagar Police Station is pending and is under investigation. iii) Out of 34 crimes registered against the husband of the

petitioner, only 21 crimes relate to Hyderabad Police Commissionerate

and the remaining 13 cases were registered at other Units, which were
 ` 6 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 specifically mentioned in a tabular form annexed to the counter. The said

crimes were registered on various dates and on different allegations.

Therefore, the allegation of the petitioner that the Police Authorities have

registered multiple FIRs against the husband of the petitioner with regard

to the very same allegations arising out of the same cause of action is

false and contrary to record. The allegations are different, cause of action

is different, the complainants and the allegations made therein are

different. Thus, the registration of multiple FIRs is permissible. iv) In the above said crimes, Investigating Officers have been

conducting investigation in a fair and transparent manner. If the

punishment prescribed for the offences alleged against the husband of the

petitioner is seven years and below seven years, the Investigating

Officers have already issued notices under section - 41A of the Cr.P.C .,

strictly following the guidelines issued by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar1 . Thus, there is no illegality or

irregularity in registering the crimes against the husband of the petitioner. v) With the said submissions, the learned Government Pleader

sought to dismiss the writ petition. 6. ANALYSIS AND FINDING OF THE COURT: Government of Andhra Pradesh [2013 (6) ALT 101] it was held that

registration of second FIR and investigation of the same is maintainable

on certain facts. iii) Referring to the principle laid down in Jakir Hussain

Kosangi2,P. Sreekumar v. State of Kerala3, Samta Naidu v. State of

Madhya Pradesh4 and Krishna Lal Chawla v. State of U.P.5 , this

Courtin Jakka Vinod Kumar Reddy v. The State of Telangana6held

that there is no embargo for registration of two FIRs on the following

circumstances/grounds: 2 This Court further held that the Court, which is examining the

permissibility of registration of second FIR has to consider whether there

is any substance in the allegations and whether there are overlapping

features in both the complaints. The Court has to further consider the

truth of 'sameness' and that whether the allegations are different and

distinct. If the allegations in both the complaints are same between same

persons, then registration of second FIR is not maintainable. iv) In Surender Kaushik v. State of UP7 the Apex Court held that

there cannot be two FIRs against the same person in respect of the same

case, but when there are rival versions in respect of the same episode,

they would normally take the shape of two different FIRs and 7 . (2013) 5 SCC 148
 ` 9 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 investigation can be carried out under both of them by the same

investigating agency. v) In Arnab Ranjan Goswami v. the Union of India8 , the Apex

Court held that multiple FIRs arising out of same cause of action against

Journalist in question is violative of fundamental rights. It further held

that no subsequent FIR in respect of same or connected cognizable

offence, occurrence or incident as alleged in the first FIR can be

registered, unless it is in the form of counter claim / case. As such the

subsequent FIR would constitute abuse of statutory power of

investigation. vi) In view of the said principles laid down by the Apex Court and

this Court, coming to the facts of the case on hand, as per the contents of

the counter affidavit, 35 crimes were registered against the husband of

the petitioner, out of which, two crimes were registered in the year 2018,

two (2) crimes were registered in the year 2019, thirteen (13) crimes were

registered in 2020 and eighteen (18) crimes were registered in the current

year. There is no dispute that the husband of the petitioner is a Free-

press Journalist and he is running a You Tube Channel in the name and

style 'Q' News. According to the petitioner, as a part of being a Free-

press Journalist, her husband has been conducting interviews, panel

discussions and news items on different issues including political, social

and economic etc. It is his freedom of expression guaranteed under Article - 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution of India. The police authorities in 8 . (2020) 14 SCC 12
 ` 10 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 connivance with political leaders and complainants registered the above

 said 35 crimes against the husband of the petitioner on the very same

 allegations arising out of same cause of action which is impermissible. vii) In view of the above said submission, this Court thought it apt

 to refer the said 35 crimes registered against the husband of the petitioner

 herein in a tabular form, which is as under: viii) During the course of arguments, the learned counsel for the

 petitioner would submit that the respondent police have arrested the

 husband of the petitioner on 28.08.2021. After securing bail, the police

 are arresting him again under the guise of execution of PT Warrant in
 ` 13 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 another case, due to which, the husband of the petitioner is not in a

position to come out and he would be in judicial custody. Thus, the

action of the respondent police is vindictive and it amounts to violation

of Articles - 19 (1) (a) and 21 of the Constitution of India apart from

being contrary to the procedure laid down under the Cr.P.C. ix) Article - 19 of the Constitution of India deals with the

protection of rights involving freedom of speech, etc. Article - 19 (1) (a) deals with freedom of speech and expression. Article - 21 deals with right

to life and personal liberty. x) The Apex Court in Arnab Ranjan Goswami8 had an occasion

to deal with the fundamental right enshrined in Article - 19 (1) (a) of the

Constitution of India and held in paragraph 38 as follows: It further held that the balance has to be drawn between the exercise of a

fundamental right under Article - 19(1)(a) and the investigation for an

offence under the Cr.P.C . All other FIRs in respect of the same incident

constitute a clear abuse of process and must be quashed. xi) The Apex Court referring to its earlier judgments including the

judgment in T.T. Antony v. State of Kerala (2001 Cri.L.J. 3329),

Upkar Singh v. Vedprakash [(2004) 13 SCC 292] and Bahubhai v.

State of Gujarat [(2010) 12 SCC 254] further held that registration of

successive FIRs / complaints founded on the same cause of action is

impermissible. No other FIR or, as the case may be, complaint shall be

initiated or pursued in any other forum in respect of the same cause of
 ` 15 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 action. Any other FIRs or complaints in respect of the same cause of

action held to be not maintainable. xii) As discussed above, respondent No.3 in its counter

specifically contended that eight crimes have been registered against the

husband of the petitioner for using derogatory language against Chief

Minister and out of which five crimes were closed after obtaining

necessary permission from the concerned Assistant Commissioners of

Police as it would amount to double jeopardy. It is also specifically

mentioned that three crimes were registered against him for using

abusive language against the Inspector of Police, Chilkalguda Police

Station out of which two crimes were closed on the ground of mistake of

fact / double jeopardy, and one is under investigation. xiii) As discussed above, as on today, the respondent police have

registered 35 crimes against the husband of the petitioner out of which,

18 crimes were registered during the 2021, out of which, one crime was

registered in the months of March, April and September, 2021 each; three

crimes were registered in the month of July, 2021 and 12 crimes were

registered in the month of August, 2021, whereas, 13 crimes were

registered during 2020. The statement filed by respondent No.3 along

with the counter would reveal that in some of the cases, PT warrants are

pending against the petitioner's husband. This would reveal that the

respondent police are not using the available technology to stop multiple

registrations of FIRs, though they have Apps called as TSCOP, Crime,
 ` 16 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 Criminal Track Net Work System (CCTNS) and Intra Net Option (INO).

CCTNS is a plan scheme conceived in the light of experience of a non-

plan scheme namely - Common Integrated Police Application (CIPA).

CCTNS is a Mission Mode Project under the National e-Governance

Plan (NeGP) of Govt. of India. CCTNS aims at creating a comprehensive

and integrated system for enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of

policing through adopting of principle of e-Governance and creation of a

nationwide networking infrastructure for evolution of IT-enabled-state-

of-the-art tracking system around 'Investigation of crime and detection of

criminals'. The objectives of the Scheme can broadly be listed as (a)

Make the Police functioning citizen friendly and more transparent by

automating the functioning of Police Stations; (b) improve delivery of

citizen-centric services through effective usage of ICT; (c) provide the

Investigating Officers of the Civil Police with tools, technology and

information to facilitate investigation of crime and detection of criminals (d) improve Police functioning in various other areas such as Law and

Order, Traffic Management etc.; (e) facilitate Interaction and sharing of

Information among Police Stations, Districts, State/UT headquarters and

other Police Agencies; (f) assist senior Police Officers in better

management of Police Force; (g) keep track of the progress of Cases,

including in Courts; and (h) reduce manual and redundant Records

keeping. The respondent police can use the technology through the said

Apps either for closing FIRs or treating the second FIRs if registered on

the same incident / allegation out of same cause of action as a statement
 ` 17 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 under Section - 162 of the Cr.P.C . as held in Akbaruddin Owaisi

(Supra). It is also relevant to note that there is an App called ICJS (Inter-

operable Criminal Justice System) and CIS (Case Information System).

The ICJS is a bridge between the CIS and the CCTNS/TSCOP by using

the said technology. The respondent police can take steps in accordance

with law to avoid registration of multiple crimes and close the same

thereafter, as was done in the present case to avoid the blame of

vindictive attitude on their part. xiv) It is relevant to note that column No.13 of every FIR is with

regard to 'action taken' which includes registration of crime, taking up

investigation, refusal to take up investigation due to a particular reason

etc. Therefore, the police can avail the same. xv) The crimes mentioned in the above tabular form would reveal

that most of the crimes registered in the current year relate to almost

same allegations i.e., using abusive and derogatory language against the

Chief Minister, his son, daughter and other Ministers in the News items

posted in the said You Tube Channel. Most of the cases registered in the

year 2020 also relate to the same allegations. It is his fundamental right

enshrined in Article - 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution of India. However,

the said fundamental right is having its own limitations under Article - 19

(2). The counter along with the statement annexed thereto by respondent

No.3 would reveal that the respondent police are not allowing the

husband of the petitioner to be released on bail. If he is released on bail
 ` 18 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 in one case, the police are arresting him in other case on the ground of

execution of PT Warrant. xvi) It is relevant to note that in most of the cases except one or

two, the punishment prescribed for the offences alleged against the

husband of the petitioner is seven years and below seven years. The

police have to necessarily follow the procedure laid down under Section -

41A of the Cr.P.C . and the guidelines issued by the Apex Court in

Arnesh Kumar1. xvii) There is specific allegation against the respondent police that

they are not following the arrest principles laid down by the Apex Court

in D.K. Basu v. State of West Bengal9 , wherein the Apex Court laid

down certain guidelines for arresting an accused. The police have to

follow such guidelines and also the guidelines issued Arnesh Kumar1,

otherwise it amounts to Contempt of Court. A learned Judge of this

Court in a judgment in Ramadugu Omkar Varma v. Ashok Naik10 convicted a Police Officer for not following the procedure laid down

under Section - 41A of the Cr.P.C . and the guidelines issued by the Apex

Court in Arnesh Kumar1 for a period of four (04) weeks. xviii) The above stated facts would also reveal that the husband of

the petitioner is kept in dark. He does not know how many cases are

pending against him and how many PT warrants are issued / pending

against him. Virtually, the respondent police are not allowing him to be 9 . (1997) 1 SCC 416 10 . C.C. No.1179 of 2019, decided on 24.01.2020
 ` 19 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 released on bail. As discussed above, in almost all the cases, punishment

prescribed for the offences alleged therein is seven years and below

seven years. Therefore, the police have to necessarily follow the

procedure laid down under Section - 41A of the Cr.P.C . and the

guidelines issued by the Apex Court in Arnesh Kumar1, otherwise, it

amounts to violation of fundamental rights of the husband of the

petitioner as guaranteed under Articles - 19 (1) (a) and 21 of the

Constitution of India. Therefore, it is the duty of the respondent police to

inform the husband of the petitioner about the pendency of crimes

registered against him and PT warrant so as to avoid a situation, like in

the present case. There is a specific allegation against the respondent

police that they are registering several cases against the husband of the

petitioner and arresting him in the said cases one after the other in

violation of the guidelines issued by the Apex Court in Arnesh Kumar1

and also the procedure laid down under Section - 41A of the Cr.P.C. xix) The Telangana State Police is trying to gain the confidence of

people of Telangana by using technology, construction of twin-towers,

installation of CCTV Cameras etc., in conducting investigation

effectively. They have also introduced SHE TEAMS to arrest crime

against women. They have been adopting 'friendly police'. It is highly

appreciable. But, at the same time, they have to refrain from registration

of multiple crimes against an individual, like the one in the present case,

which will damage their reputation and it will lead to loosing of

confidence of the people. ` 20 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 xx) In State v. K.N. Nehru11 , the Full-Bench of the Madras High

Court had elaborately dealt with the procedure to be followed while

executing PT warrants. The relevant observations are as under: Therefore, there is no legal compulsion for the production
 of the accused before the Magistrate within 24 hours from
 the said formal arrest. 3). For the production of the accused before the Court after
 such formal arrest, the police officer shall make an
 application before the Jurisdictional Magistrate for
 issuance of P.T.Warrant without delay. If the conditions
 required in Section 267 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
 are satisfied, the Magistrate shall issue P.T. Warrant for
 the production of the accused on or before a specified date 11 . (2012) 1 MWN (Crl.) 4
 ` 21 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 before the Magistrate. When the accused is so transmitted
from prison and produced before the Jurisdictional
Magistrate in pursuance of the P.T.Warrant, it will be
lawful for the police officer to make a request to the
learned Magistrate for authorising the detention of the
accused either in police custody or in judicial custody. 4). After considering the said request, the representation of
the accused and after perusing the case diary and other
relevant materials, the learned Magistrate shall pass
appropriate orders under Section 167(1) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure. 5). If the police officer decides not to effect formal arrest,
it will be lawful for him to straightaway make an
application to the Jurisdictional Magistrate for issuance of
P.T.Warrant for transmitting the accused from prison
before him for the purpose of remand. On such request, if
the Magistrate finds that the requirements of Section
267 of the Code of Criminal Procedure are satisfied, he
shall issue P.T.Warrant for the production of the accused
on or before a specified date. 6). When the accused is so transmitted and produced
before the Magistrate in pursuance of the P.T.Warrant
from prison, the police officer will be entitled to make a
request to the Magistrate for authorising the detention of
the accused either in police custody or in judicial custody.
On such request, after following the procedure indicated
above, the Magistrate shall pass appropriate orders either
remanding the accused either to judicial custody or police
custody under Section 167(1) of the Code of Criminal
Procedure or dismissing the request after recording the
reasons. 7). Before the accused is transmitted and produced before
the Court in pursuance of a P.T.Warrant in connection
with a latter case, if he has been ordered to be released in
connection with the former case, the jail authority shall set
 ` 22 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 him at liberty and return the P.T.Warrant to the Magistrate
 making necessary endorsement and if only the accused
 continues to be in judicial custody, in connection with the
 former case, he can be transmitted in pursuance of
 P.T.Warrant in connection with the latter case.

 xxi) In view of the discussion supra, the action of respondent

police in registration of multiple crimes with regard to the very same

allegation, closing the same on the ground that it amounts to double

jeopardy, obtaining PT warrants and execution of the same depriving the

right of husband of the petitioner to obtain bail. Bail is a rule and jail is

an exception. 7. CONCLUSION: ` 23 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 (c) Respondent No.2 shall personally supervise the
 investigation in respect of the crimes pending against the
 husband of the petitioner; (d) He is directed to furnish the information either to the
 petitioner or her husband with regard to pendency of cases
 against him and issuance / pendency of PT warrants against
 him and also issuance of Bailable/Non-Bailable Warrants
 within one (01) week from the date of receipt of a copy of
 this order under proper acknowledgment; (e) He has to consider the allegations made against the husband
 of the petitioner in all thirty five (35) crimes pending against
 him, and if there is any registration of multiple crimes in
 respect of the same allegations arising out of the same cause
 of action, he shall give necessary instructions to the
 concerned Investigating Officers to close such crimes, treat
 the same as statements under Section - 162 of the Cr.P.C .; (f) In the above crimes mentioned in the tabular form where the
 punishment prescribed is seven years and below seven
 years, the concerned Investigating Officers shall strictly
 follow the procedure laid down under Section - 41A of the Cr.P.C . and also the guidelines issued by the Apex Court in
 Arnesh Kumar1, failing which it amounts to contempt of
 Court and they are liable for punishment; (g) Respondent police shall follow the directions issued by the
 Hon'ble Apex Court in D.K. Bose9 while arresting the
 husband of the petitioner and while executing PT warrant in
 K.N. Nehru11; (h) The respondent police are further directed not to resort any
 vindictive attitude towards the husband of the petitioner.
 They are further directed not to harass the petitioner and her
 ` 24 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 husband in any manner under the guise of investigation in
 any of the crimes that are pending against him. However,
 the petitioner and her husband shall co-operate with the
 respondent police by submitting necessary information in
 concluding the investigation in the aforesaid crimes; (i) Liberty is also granted to the husband of the petitioner to
 move regular/anticipatory bail applications before the
 concerned Magistrates and also to file applications to recall
 NBWs./BWs, if any, pending against him on receipt of
 information from the respondent police; (j) However, the learned Magistrates concerned, before whom
 the respondent police produces the husband of the petitioner
 shall verify the contents of the complaints, allegations made
 therein and whether offences alleged against him are
 bailable or non-bailable. Whether the police have followed
 the procedure laid down under Section - 41A of the Cr.P.C .
 while deciding the bail applications; (k) Respondent No.2 shall issue necessary instructions to all the
 Station House Officers to utilize the latest technology / Apps
 viz., ICJS (Inter-operable Criminal Justice System), CIS
 (Case Information System); CCTNS, TSCOP and Intranet
 etc., while registering the crimes and while conducting
 investigation against the husband of the petitioner or any
 other accused in the State of Telangana; (l) The Investigating Officers shall conduct investigation in a
 fair and transparent manner; ii) With the above directions / observations, the present Writ

Petition is disposed of; ` 25 KL,J W.P.No.22037 of 2021 iii) However, in the circumstances of the case, there shall be

 no order as to costs. As a sequel, the miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending in the writ

petition shall stand closed. _________________
 K. LAKSHMAN, J
4th October, 2021
Note: Furnish C.C. today itself
 (B/O.) Mgr