1. Rule returnable forthwith. Learned APP waives service of
 notice of rule for respondent - State of Gujarat. 2. By way of the present application under Section 482 of the
 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short "BNSS"), the
 applicant has prayed for anticipatory bail in the event of arrest in
 connection with the FIR being C.R. No.I-11218019250002 of 2025
 registered with Cyber Crime Police Station, Porbandar for the
 alleged offences as mentioned in the FIR. 3. The sum and substance of the case of the prosecution is
 that the accused No.1, in collusion with the other co-accused
 whose names are there in the FIR as well as those who will be
 found during the course of investigation, hatched a criminal
 conspiracy, and thereby, committed the alleged fraud, which is
 said to have been uncovered during the investigation of a
 different crime, wherein the police have gathered information
 regarding some suspicious bank accounts being used in
 committing Cyber crimes, wherein the details of 14 bank
 accounts of Kotak Mahindra Bank at M.G. Road, Porbandar were
 also received, and upon preliminary investigation being carried Page 1 of 18 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Sat Sep 06 2025 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 08 21:46:42 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined

 out of those 14 bank accounts regarding whether there is any
 Cyber complaint being registered relating to the said accounts, it
 was found that out of the aforesaid 14 accounts, various
 complaints of cheating and fraudulent transactions have been
 registered in the different States in relation to 05 accounts, and
 upon further inquiry being made, it was found that the address
 mentioned in the said 05 accounts is the very same, which
 belongs to the accused No.1-Hiralba Bhurabhai Jadeja, and as
 such, search proceedings was carried out at the residential
 premises of the accused No.1, wherefrom various bank accounts
 details were found by the investigating officer, and upon further
 inquiry being made and statements of various persons being
 recorded, it was found that all those bank accounts got opened at
 the instance of the accused No.1 in the names of her associates,
 which was alleged to have been used in an online defrauding and
 duping the gullible people of the different States by luring and
 tempting them of giving profit upon investment being made and
 of securing a job for them as also by representing them as the
 Telecom Regulatory Authority, and thereby duped number of
 gullible people of different States of Lakhs of rupees. With this
 sort of allegations, the present FIR has been registered. 4. Thus, apprehending his arrest pursuant to the registration
 of the aforesaid FIR, the applicant preferred anticipatory bail
 before the trial court, however, the trial court has not entertained
 the said application and rejected the same. 5. Being aggrieved, the applicant is here before this Court with
 the present application. 6. Learned advocate Mr. Ekant Ahuja for learned advocate Ms.
 Shivani J. Lad appearing for the applicant submits that the
 allegations made in the FIR are of such a nature, for which, Page 2 of 18 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Sat Sep 06 2025 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 08 21:46:42 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined

 custodial interrogation of the applicant at this stage is not
 necessary. He further submits that the applicant will keep himself
 available during the course of investigation as well as the trial
 proceedings and will not flee from justice. He further submits that
 total six persons have been arraigned as accused in the FIR,
 however, the present applicant has not been named in the FIR,
 but subsequently, during the course of investigation, on the basis
 of the statement made by the co-accused, he has been falsely
 dragged into the present offence, and is seriously apprehending
 his arrest at the hands of the investigating officer. Learned
 advocate Mr. Ahuja further submits that the FIR came to be
 lodged on 14.05.2025 for the offence alleged to have taken place
 on 29.05.2024, and as such, there is a gross delay of almost one
 year in registering the FIR without there being any plausible
 explanation worth the name about such delay in registering the
 FIR. Learned advocate Mr. Ahuja also submits that looking to the
 FIR, all the allegations are against the accused No.1, at whose
 instance, the alleged bank accounts were opened, in the names
 of purportedly bogus companies, and for the KYC whereof,
 documents of naive and gullible people were utilized. Learned
 advocate Mr. Ahuja further submits that in the case on hand,
 some of the account holders have been shown as the witnesses
 and some have been shown as the accused, which clearly shows
 that the concerned investigating officer had adopted a pick and
 choose policy. He also submits that whatever allegations are
 there in the FIR, are all against the accused No.1 and her
 associates, and the present applicant is not directly or indirectly
 connected with the commission of offence, and he has been
 falsely dragged into the offence. It was the accused No.1, who
 played a pivotal role in perpetuating the alleged fraud inasmuch Page 3 of 18 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Sat Sep 06 2025 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 08 21:46:42 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined

 as she solicited assistance of the accused No.2 and one Ajay
 Chauhan, who procured the KYC documents of several persons
 for the purposes of incorporating allegedly bogus companies and
 opening their bank accounts in lieu of monetary payment to the
 tune of INR 20,000/-. 7. Learned advocate Mr. Ahuja further submits that pursuant
 to the registration of the FIR, the investigation was commenced,
 and at the end of it, charge-sheet also came to be submitted
 against the co-accused, and along with the charge-sheet,
 statements of the persons in whose names accounts were
 opened, were placed, however, the statements of the victims are
 not forming the part of the charge-sheet papers. Learned
 advocate Mr. Ahuja submits that, in fact, the present applicant
 has not received any monetary gain out of the alleged
 transactions, which is clearly apparent from the charge-sheet
 papers submitted by the investigating officer qua the other co-
 accused. He submits that the implication of the present applicant
 is being made on the ground that he had provided certain
 guidance in the opening of the bank accounts, and as such, one
 cannot be made an accused solely on the ground that he has
 provided certain assistance in opening the bank accounts.
 Moreover, mere de-freezing of account also does not make out
 any case against the applicant. He further submits that, in fact,
 after coming to know about his name being given as the co-
 accused, the present applicant preferred an application under
 Section 343 of the BNSS, 2023 and Section 344 of the BNS, 2023,
 seeking tender of pardon and to be turned as an approver by
 voluntarily disclosing all the true facts germane to the offence in
 question that are within his knowledge, however, the said
 application came to be rejected by the trial court solely on the Page 4 of 18 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Sat Sep 06 2025 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 08 21:46:42 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined

 ground that the applicant did not remain present personally.
 Thus, in the light of the aforesaid application filed by the
 applicant, wherein he has given a full and true disclosure of the
 facts and circumstances engulfing the subject FIR with the intent
 to aid the investigating officer to unearth the truth, the necessity
 to arrest the applicant stands dissipated as the applicant has
 disclosed everything in his knowledge and established his bona
 fide while doing so in the said application. He further submits that
 the protection of personal liberty is a rule and curtailment thereof
 is an exception. The applicant is ready and willing to render full
 cooperation in the investigation as has been doing by him
 throughout. He submits that no recovery or discovery remains
 from the applicant in view of full and true disclosure made by him
 in the application, seeking tender of pardon. Moreover, the
 alleged offences are triable by the Court of Magistrate. To
 buttress his aforesaid submissions, learned advocate Mr. Ahuja
 has placed reliance upon the decision in the case of P. Krishna
 Mohan Reddy vs. State of Andhra Pradesh, Special Leave Petition
 (Criminal) No.7532 of 2025, decided on 16.05.2025. 8. In such circumstances, referred to above, learned advocate
 for the applicant prays that there being merit in the present
 application, the same be allowed and the applicant be released
 on anticipatory bail. 9. On the other hand, the present application has been
 vehemently opposed by the learned APP Ms. Jyoti Bhatt.
 Learned APP Ms. Bhatt submits that the present applicant has
 committed a very serious offence in connivance with the other
 co-accused. She submits that it is the specific case of the
 prosecution that all the accused persons, in connivance with each
 other, hatched a conspiracy, and as a part of the said conspiracy, Page 5 of 18 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Sat Sep 06 2025 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 08 21:46:42 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined

 played their individual roles, wherein the accused No.1 has
 played a vital role. She further submits that the entire scam was
 unearthed by the police while investigating into altogether a
 difference offence, during which period, the concerned
 investigation officer gathered information about some accounts
 being used in committing cyber crimes, wherein some accounts
 were found, which got opened by the accused No.1 in the names
 of her associates. Therefore, the police had carried out intensive
 investigation, upon which, the involvement of the present
 applicant has also been found out. Learned APP Ms. Bhatt
 submits that based upon the same set of documents, certain
 account have also been opened in Junagadh City, and number of
 gullible people have also been duped at Junagadh also by the
 said accused persons, for which, a separate FIR has also been
 filed at Junagadh. She further submits that, in fact, during the
 course of investigation, it is found out that an amount of
 Rs.79,92,088/- has been fraudulently obtained and then
 withdrawn by the co-accused person from the said accounts.
 Learned APP Ms. Bhatt also submits that the arrested co-accused
 persons have very categorically stated in their statements that all
 the current/saving bank accounts, that have been opened at
 Porbandar, Junagadh, Jamnagar and Rajkot, were got opened
 under the guidance of the present applicant, and after even after
 opening it, the same were being managed by the present
 applicant. Moreover, the statements of number of witnesses have
 also been recorded by the investigating officer, wherein they
 have also categorically mentioned the name of the present
 applicant along with his specific role. [ 10. Learned APP Ms. Bhatt further submits that even after the
 alleged accounts got freezed, the present applicant went to the Page 6 of 18 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Sat Sep 06 2025 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 08 21:46:42 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined

 Bank along with the other co-accused to defreeze the account
 and supplied certain documents, which is clearly evident from the
 CCTV footages of the Bank collected by the investigating officer.
 She submits that during the course of investigation, the
 investigating officer has recorded statements of number of
 persons including the witnesses as well as the Bank Officers, from
 which, the name as well as specific role of the present applicant
 has clearly come on surface, which indicates that the present
 applicant has actively participated in the commission of the
 offence. She submits that, in fact, in all it is a huge scam of Rs.
 163 Crores. Moreover, the concerned investigating officer has
 also inquired from the NCCRP/Samanvay portal that whether any
 other offence is registered against the 26 current accounts run
 by the accused persons, upon which, it was found that in all 123
 complaints of cyber fraud have been registered against the 19
 accounts in various States, and there are all possible chances
 that the said number is likely to be increased during the course of
 investigation. She submits that, in fact, there are in all ten FIRs
 have been registered against the present applicant at the
 different police stations within the State of Gujarat. Moreover,
 during the period when the offence was committed, the present
 applicant was in constant touch along with the other co-accused,
 which is evident from the CDR collected by the investigating
 officer. Even the conversation took place between present
 applicant and the accused No.1 on WhatsApp has also collected
 by the investigating officer, which shows that the present
 applicant is directly involved in the commission of the crime.
 Not only that, the accused No.1 also sent money to the present
 applicant through Angadiya firm, which is also evident from the
 statement of the person of the Angadiya firm recorded by the Page 7 of 18 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Sat Sep 06 2025 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 08 21:46:42 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined

 investigating officer. Thus, the cumulative effect of the materials
 collected by the investigating officer so far, suggests that the
 present applicant is closely associated with the other co-accused
 and has played an active role in the commission of the crime, and
 has also received a huge amount as a commission from the
 accused No.1 through Angadiya firm. The applicant himself has
 also sent certain amount to the accused No.1 through Angadiya
 firm, and those materials have also been collected by the
 investigating officer. Learned APP Ms. Bhatt further submits that
 if the application made by the present applicant to become an
 approver is to be read, then it appears that in the said applicant
 itself, the present applicant has narrated how he has acted in a
 particular manner at the time of committing the crime. She
 submits that moreover, the present applicant is a resident of
 Mumbai, and is evading his arrest since inception, and if he is
 released on anticipatory bail, there is a likelihood of he being fled
 away from the Country as he is holding a passport as also the IP
 addresses of the Bank Accounts of the co-accused and the
 witnesses got opened by the present applicant are found to be of
 foreign countries. Thus, it is apparent on the face of the record
 that all the accused persons, in connivance with each other, have
 committed the offence. It is submitted that the applicant has
 failed to establish case for extraordinary relief. 11. In such circumstances, referred to above, learned APP Ms.
 Bhatt prays that there being no merit in the present application,
 the same be rejected. 12. Heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and
 perused the record. 13. It is well settled that, among other circumstances, the Page 8 of 18 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Sat Sep 06 2025 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 08 21:46:42 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined

 factors to be borne in mind while considering an application for
 bail are (i) whether there is any prima facie or reasonable
 ground to believe that the accused had committed the offence; (ii) nature and gravity of the accusation; (iii) severity of the
 punishment in the event of conviction; (iv) danger of the
 accused absconding or fleeing, if released on bail; (v)
 character, behaviour, means, position and standing of the
 accused. Though at the stage of granting bail execution and
 appreciation of evidence is not permissible. Hence, custodial
 interrogation is required. 14. It appears from the record that there is a huge scam of
 crores of rupees alleged to have been committed by the
 present applicant along with the other co-accused by opening
 various bank accounts in the name of the other co-accused
 and the witnesses, which were then being used in committing
 the cyber fraud with the gullible people. From the record, it
 reveals that the amount involved in the said scam is Rs.163
 Crores. The record reveals that very serious allegations of
 fraud and siphoning away of huge amount of gullible people
 have been made against the present applicant and the co-
 accused. The allegations seems to be quite serious in nature.
 Moreover, from the materials placed on record, prima facie,
 the involvement of the present applicant is also found out.
 There are number of statements of the witnesses as well as
 the co-accused, wherein they have very categorically stated
 the name of the present applicant along with his specific role.
 Even from the CDR (Call Data Records) collected by the
 investigating officer, it clearly appears that the present
 applicant was in constant touch along with the other co- NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined

 accused as well as the witnesses during the period when the
 offence was committed. Further, there are in all total ten FIRs
 have been registered against the present applicant alleging
 similar kind of offence, which indicates that the applicant
 seems to be an habitual offender in committing such kind of
 offences. That apart, there are certain transactions took place
 between the applicant and the accused No.1 through Angadiya
 firm, which is also evident from the statement of the person of
 the Angadiya firm recorded by the investigating officer. Not
 only that, from the statement of the Bank Officer as well as
 one of the witnesses, it appears that the present applicant
 personally went to the Bank along with the other co-accused
 along with certain documents for the purpose of defreezing the
 alleged accounts, which is also evident from the CCTV footages
 of the Bank. Thus, from the materials collected and produced
 before this Court, I am of the view that prima facie
 involvement of the present applicant is clearly found out in the
 commission of the crime. It also appears that number of cyber
 complaints have been registered in the different States as well
 as within the State of Gujarat against the accounts got opened
 by the present applicant in the name of the co-accused and
 the witnesses. Further, the offence with which the applicant is
 charged with is an economic offence and is against the interest
 of the society. 15. It goes without saying that the alleged offence of
 misappropriating crores of rupees of the gullible people is quite
 grave in nature. Hence, while it is extremely important to
 protect the personal liberty of a person, it is equally incumbent
 upon me to analyze the seriousness of the offence and Page 10 of 18 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Sat Sep 06 2025 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 08 21:46:42 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined

 determine if there is a need for custodial interrogation. 16. In Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of
 Maharashtra , (2011) 1 SCC 694, the Supreme Court carefully
 considered the principles established by the Constitution
 Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v. State of Punjab , (1980) 2
 SCC 565. After a thorough deliberation, the Supreme Court
 arrived at the following conclusion: 23. Coming to the case on hand, from the allegations levelled
 in the FIR and the materials placed on record, it appears that
 the very serious allegations of siphoning away of of crores of
 rupees have been made against the applicant. Moreover, the
 present case also falls within the category of economic
 offences and the amount involved in the present case is quite
 huge, and it is trite law that in economic offences, benefit of
 pre-arrest bail should not be extended in favour of the accused
 in a casual manner. Thus, at this stage, in my view, custodial
 interrogation of the applicant is very much necessary. 24. Lastly, it may be noted that as held in catena of
 decisions, the economic offences constitute a class apart and
 need to be visited with a different approach in the matter of
 bail. The economic offences having deep-rooted conspiracies
 and involving huge loss of public funds need to be viewed Page 15 of 18 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Sat Sep 06 2025 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 08 21:46:42 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined

 seriously and considered as grave offences affecting the
 economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing serious
 threat to the financial health of the country. Undoubtedly,
 economic offences have serious repercussions on the
 development of the country as a whole. To cite a few
 judgments in this regard are Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy vs.
 Central Bureau of Investigation , reported in ( 2013) 7 SCC
 439, Nimmagadda Prasad vs. Central Bureau of
 Investigation , ( 2013) 7 SCC 466, Gautam Kundu vs.
 Directorate of Enforcement (Prevention of Money-
 Laundering Act), Government of India Through Manoj
 Kumar, Assistant Director, Eastern Region , ( 2015) 16 SCC
 1, State of Bihar and Another vs. Amit Kumar alias
 Bachcha Rai, (2017) 13 SCC 751. The Supreme Court taking
 a serious note with regard to the economic offences had
 observed as back as in 1987 in case of State of Gujarat vs.
 Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal and Another , (1987) 2 SCC 364
 as under:- NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined 25. Moreover, when the Court is satisfied that a prima facie
 case of custodial interrogation of the accused is made out by
 the prosecution for securing the incriminating materials from
 the information likely to be received from the accused, then
 the power under Section 482 should not be exercised in a
 routine manner. The presence of the applicant, in the peculiar
 facts and circumstances of the present case, seems to be
 needed to uncover the truth. Further, the discretion under Section 482 cannot be exercised with regard to offences
 punishable with death or imprisonment for life, unless the
 court at that very stage is satisfied that such a charge appears
 to be false or groundless. The larger interest of the public and
 State demand that in serious cases like economic offences
 involving cheating and misappropriation of huge volume of
 amount, the discretion under Section 482 of the BNSS should
 not be exercised. 26. Thus, what is discernible from the above is that while
 deciding anticipatory bail application, it is the first duty of the
 Court to see seriousness of the offence, prima facie case and
 interest of the society at a large. Therefore, when no special
 and compelling circumstances are made out and no case of
 false implication of present applicants in the alleged offence is
 made out before this Court, I am of the opinion that this Court
 should refrain itself from exercising its discretionary powers in
 favour of the present applicant at this stage. 27. Further, the present applicant is involved in white collar
 socio-economic offence which constitute a class apart and
 needs to be visited with a different approach. The economic Page 17 of 18 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Sat Sep 06 2025 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 08 21:46:42 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15696/2025 ORDER DATED: 01/09/2025

 undefined

 offences adversely affect the economic and social fabric of the
 country. In such circumstances also, grant of anticipatory bail
 at this stage would frustrate the investigation. 28. In view of above discussion and considering the materials
 produced before this Court, I am of the opinion that there
 seems to be a prima facie involvement of the present applicant
 in the commission of the alleged offence. Thus, this Court is of
 the opinion that at the initial stage of the investigation of the
 offence, grant of anticipatory bail in favour of the applicant is
 likely to hamper the investigation and investigating agency is
 likely to lose an opportunity to exploit all the fact situation,
 probabilities or opportunities which the Agency may get during
 the custodial interrogation of a person, and therefore, keeping
 in mind all the factors, no interference is required at this stage.
 The impugned order passed by the trial court, rejecting
 anticipatory bail application of the applicant is just and proper
 and does not require any interference at the end of this Court. 29. In the result, the present application, being devoid of
 any merit, is hereby rejected. However, it is made clear that
 the observations made by this Court herein above at this stage
 while deciding the anticipatory bail application, would not
 come in the way of the applicant at the time as and when if
 ultimately the trial court is proceeded with the trial, and at the
 stage of consideration of regular bail application, if preferred
 by the applicant. Rule is discharged. (DIVYESH A. JOSHI,J)

 VAHID Page 18 of 18 Uploaded by ABDULVAHID A SHAIKH(HC00955) on Sat Sep 06 2025 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 08 21:46:42 IST 2025