1. The instant writ petition has been filed under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India, 1950, read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure (hereinafter referred to as ― Cr.P.C .‖) seeking, in a nutshell, the
 blocking of certain sites exhibiting intimate images of the Petitioner herein,
 and for registration of a First Information Report (FIR) arising out of the
 complaint dated 03.08.2021 made by the Petitioner to Lajpat Nagar Police
 Station, New Delhi. GENESIS OF THE MATTER 2. At the outset, this Court deems it appropriate to refer to the Petitioner
 as "Mrs. X" in consonance with the directions rendered by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in Nipun Saxena v. Union of India , (2019) 2 SCC 703,
 whereby it was observed that in a patriarchal society like India,
 survivors/victims of sexual violence of any nature are forced to undergo
 ostracization for no fault of their own. Therefore, to prevent hostile
 discrimination or harassment of the survivor/victim in the future, this Court
 believes it to be prudent to refer to the Petitioner herein as "Mrs. X". 3. Having stated the above, the facts, in brief, leading to the instant
 petition are stated as under: year-old son. In December 2019, she became acquainted with
 one Mr. Richesh Manav Singhal who approached her through
 social media and introduced himself as a British Chartered
 Accountant. It is stated that in February 2020, the Petitioner
 shared her personal contact number with Mr. Singhal, and over
 a period of time, the Petitioner became close to Mr. Singhal. b) In July 2020, it is stated that as the Petitioner was living with
 her son at a rented accommodation in Gurugram on account of
 her job and financial constraints. Mr. Singhal took advantage of
 the absence of the Petitioner's family members, came over to
 her place and forced himself upon her. He allegedly not only
 clicked explicit pictures of the Petitioner, but also transferred to
 himself from the mobile phone of the Petitioner explicit
 pictures that the Petitioner had taken of herself for the purpose
 of sharing them with her husband. c) It is stated that Mr. Singhal involved the minor son of the
 Petitioner in various sexual acts as well. Consequently, the
 Petitioner lodged a complaint against Mr. Singhal at the Lajpat
 Nagar Police Station, and on the basis of the same, a Zero FIR
 was registered with the investigation thereafter being
 transferred to Gurugram. It is stated that on multiple occasions,
 Mr. Singhal threatened the Petitioner that he would leak her
 sexually explicit photographs on various pornographic websites
 and that he would kill her son if she did not pay huge amounts
 of money to him. Consequently, the Petitioner was extorted into Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 3 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 paying lakhs of money to Mr. Singhal, along with handing him
 all her jewellery. d) It is stated that as the funds of the Petitioner had depleted and
 she was unable to pay any more money to Mr. Singhal, he
 followed through on his threats and leaked the Petitioner's
 explicit images on various pornographic websites without the
 consent or permission of the Petitioner. This led to the
 Petitioner addressing a complaint dated 03.08.2021 against Mr.
 Singhal to the SHO at Police Station Lajpat Nagar recording the
 new offences. The said complaint notes that Mr. Singhal had
 made a YouTube channel in the Petitioner's name, and has
 been posting her explicit videos and photographs on a daily
 basis. e) Despite the Petitioner having approached the Grievance Cells
 of Respondents No. 3 to 6, i.e. Google LLC, Microsoft India
 Pvt. Ltd. (later replaced by Microsoft Ireland Operations Ltd.
 which is the entity managing its search engine, Bing),
 YouTube.com and Vimeo.com, as well as having placed
 multiple complaints on cybercrime.gov.in, the explicit images
 of the Petitioner were not taken down. f) Aggrieved by the failure in the redressal processes available to
 her, the Petitioner herein has approached this Court by way of
 the instant writ petition for directions to the Respondents for
 removal of all her non-consensual intimate images on the
 internet. 4. During the course of hearing of the instant writ petition, vide Order
 dated 11.08.2021, Respondent No.5 was deleted from the array of parties, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 4 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 and this Court directed for impleadment of the concerned Police Station at
 Gurugram. Vide Order dated 07.09.2021, this Court informed Mr. Anurag
 Ahluwalia, appearing for the Union of India, Ms. Mamta Jha, learned
 Counsel appearing for Google LLC and YouTube, that the instant matter
 was not adversarial in nature and that full cooperation was expected on their
 part in removal of the objectionable content pertaining to the Petitioner
 herein with the same being done before the next date of hearing. 5. Status Reports dated 28.08.2021 and 14.09.2021were filed on behalf
 of Respondent No.2, i.e. Government of NCT of Delhi (GNCTD) with
 regard to the Uniform Resource Locator (URLs) being blocked/removed.
 The Status Report dated 14.09.2021 noted that all possible efforts were
 being made to get the remaining active URL/links blocked/removed through
 the concerned intermediaries. A Status Report dated 16.09.2021 was filed on
 behalf of Respondent No.1, i.e. Union of India. Relevant portions of the said
 Status Report recording the jurisdiction of the Delhi Police over matters of
 the instant nature have been reproduced as under: They can also report the complaints as a registered
 user to track the status of complaint at various stages. Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806 5. That the Government has also made a Toll free
 Helpline number (155260) functional to help the
 citizens to lodge their complaint on the Portal. 6. That the complaint reported by a citizen on the
 cybercrime reporting portal (www.cybercrime.gov.in)
 is routed automatically to the concerned Law
 Enforcement Agency and appears in the inbox of the
 concerned State/UT Nodal Officer for assigning it to
 the concerned authority or Police Station for taking
 further action as per the laid down law and procedure. 7. That the Ministry of Home Affairs has
 designated the National Crime Record Bureau as
 Central Nodal Agency to manage technical &
 operational functions of the online cybercrime
 reporting portal and its associated work. 8. That Delhi Police is the Law Enforcement
 Agency in the instant case and they were asked to take
 further necessary action to get the URLs mentioned in
 para 18 of WP blocked. 9. That the Delhi Police is the agency to whom the
 subject complaint is routed through the portal and has
 the jurisdiction to take action; hence the actionable
 information / status of blocking of all relevant URLs
 must be available with Delhi Police. In order to avoid
 repetition of facts before the Hon'ble Court, the Delhi
 Police being a respondent in this matter may file the
 same. 10. That considering the nature of subject issue and
 the material facts submitted through this Affidavit, the
 Hon'ble Court may graciously be pleased to accepts
 the averments made above and may consider to take
 response of the LEA i.e. Delhi Police as 'Police' and
 'Public Order' being States subjects the issues raised
 by the Petitioners are primarily related to the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 6 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 detection, investigation & prosecution, which are done
 as per the provisions of law.‖ 6. Thereafter, an Additional Affidavit dated 21.09.2021 was filed on
 behalf of the Petitioner noting that the offending material was consistently
 being reproduced and re-uploaded. On 06.10.2021, this Court was informed
 by learned Counsel appearing for Google LLC that though all the offending
 material had been removed from YouTube and the URLs which had been
 specifically supplied were de-indexed by Google, it did not mean that it
 could not be found on the internet through other search engines and that
 merely directing only the search engines to de-index the links would not be
 an adequate solution. 7. Due to the complexity in the nature of the matter and the fact that
 consistent Orders of this Court were being frustrated, vide Order dated
 06.10.2021, this Court deemed it appropriate to appoint Mr. Saurabh Kirpal,
 learned Senior Counsel, as Amicus Curiae, to assist this Court on the
 position of law and the extent to which this Court can issue directions to
 intermediaries in such matters so as to protect the rights of the Petitioner and
 other similarly situated individuals vis-à-vis the duties of the intermediaries
 as well as the right to free speech. Accordingly, the scope of the instant Writ
 Petition under Article 226 has been expanded, and any directions that will be
 rendered will be limited to search engines, MEITY and Delhi Police. 8. A Short Affidavit dated 22.12.2021 was filed on behalf of Respondent
 No.1 in the instant matter, stating that the Ministry of Electronics and
 Information Technology (MEITY) is the custodian of the Information
 Technology Act, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as " IT Act "). The Short
 Affidavit delineates the objective and relevant provisions of the said Act as
 well as the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 7 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (hereinafter referred to as the "IT Rules").
 It notes that the IT Rules not only focus on the enhanced safety of women
 and children, but that it also provides for statutory timelines for grievance
 redressal and content takedown. The Short Affidavit, thereafter, goes on to
 note that the prayer of the Petitioner seeking delinking/de-tagging/de-
 referencing/de-indexing the name of the Petitioner would adversely affect
 the freedom of speech and expression of other individuals having the same
 name as the Petitioner or a similar name. The paragraphs of the Short
 Affidavit stating the aforesaid are as follows: Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806 2. Information takedown from platform upon
 actual knowledge based on court order or notice
 from appropriate government authorised by law: 3. Providing information on a lawful
 request: 72 hours [Rule 3(1)(j)] 4. Removal of revenge porn (sexual
 extortion/non-consensual porn publication/sexual
 act or conduct involving impersonation, etc.) and
 other similar content: 24 hours [Rule 3(2)(b)]. 13. It is submitted that in the present Petition, the
 grievance(s) of the Petitioner falls under Rule 3(2)(b)
 of the IT Rules, 2021 and accordingly, the Petitioner
 has an efficacious remedy to approach the
 intermediary directly or through any person on her
 behalf including law enforcement agencies for removal
 of URLs containing offending content. 14. It is submitted that the Petitioner's Prayer in
 clause (B) seeking delinking/de-tagging/de- referencing/de-indexing the name of the Petitioner
 from the search engines would adversely affect on the
 freedom of expression and speech of other individuals
 having the same or similar name as that of the
 Petitioner. 15. It is submitted that the Rule 3(2)(b) of the IT
 Rules, 2021 empower the Petitioner to seek removal of
 the content by submitting the information/URLs to the
 intermediaries, who are obligated to remove such
 content within 24 hours‖ 9. Vide Status Report dated 16.03.2022, this Court was apprised of the
 fact that the accused Richesh Manav Singhal and one Shweta Chhabra had
 been arrested after an investigation at their residence which lead to the
 discovery of more than 83,000 explicit pictures, including that of the
 Petitioner herein, on one of the laptops at their residence. It was further Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 11 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 found that the accused was involved in multiple other cases. Relevant
 portion of the Status Report reads as under: 2400, Suite No. 103 Sushant Lok, Gurugram, Haryana.
 Richesh Manav Singhal and Shweta found present on
 the above mentioned address. They were joined the
 investigation and after interrogation both were
 arrested in this case. A total Cash of Rs 23,99,182/-,
 jewellery articles, 17 mobile and 4 laptops belong to
 the accused persons were taken in police possession as
 per seizure memo. The laptop and mobile phones
 recovered from the accused are being forensically
 examined. A large number (more than 83,000) of
 objectionable photographs of various girls including
 the nude photographs of the petitioner Mrs. X have
 been found in one of the laptops. Further forensic
 examination of the laptops and mobile phones arc
 going on. It has been found tha, the accused Richesh
 Manav Singhal is previously also involved in several
 cases viz 1.) FIR No. 448/2016, U/s 66 A, 354D/506/509 IPC , PS Mukherjee Nagar 2 ) FIR No. 1161/15, U/s 354/354(A), 354B, 509 IPC , PS Vasant Kunj North. Malviya Nagar, 4.) FIR No. 206/2017, U/s 354D/509 IPC PS
 Timarpur, 5.) FIR No. 185/21, U/s 376,506 IPC , 8/10 POCSO Act PS Sector 56, Gurugram. Both accused persons namely Richesh Manav Singhal
 and Shweta Chhabra are on PC remand. The
 Investigation is still going on. The undersigned is
 ready to abide the directions passed by Hon'ble Court‖ Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 12 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806 10. The Writ Petition, therefore, becomes infructuous. However, to ensure
 that the victims like the Petitioner herein are not forced to approach the
 authorities/intermediaries including the search engine repeatedly for removal
 of any offending content, this Court has proceeded further so that
 appropriate directions may be issued. 11. Vide Order dated 22.03.2022, this Court issued the following
 directions to Respondent No.3, i.e. Google LLC, and Respondent No.4, i.e.
 Microsoft India: 12. After the Judgement was reserved in the instant matter, the learned
 Amicus Curiae sought to place on record the Information Technology
 (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Amendment
 Rules, 2022by way of CRL.M.A. No. 22861/2022. The same was allowed
 vide Order dated 20.12.2022. 13. Non-Consensual Intimate Images (NCII) refers broadly to sexual
 content that is distributed without the consent of those who are being Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 13 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 depicted in the said content. This content may or may not be taken with the
 consent of the individual involved, however, its dissemination is largely
 meant to be non-consensual and comes under the larger umbrella of cyber-
 harassment. Such distribution, more colloquially known by the term
 "revenge porn", causes psychological damage to the victim and subjects
 them to social ostracization and humiliation that can seriously impact the
 mental health of the victim. This Court will, however, refrain from using the
 term "revenge porn" as it is merely a subset of NCII and NCII encompasses
 a larger number of scenarios in which such content may be distributed. The
 individual whose images are shared without their consent are perceived by
 the public to be deserving of the violation of their privacy and bodily
 integrity. Further, the same level of gravity that is attached to a crime like
 molestation/sexual harassment is not assigned to NCII abuse as the public in
 general finds it difficult to conceptualize its negative impact on account of
 the fact that the victim's physical person remains unharmed. However, what
 such conceptualization tends to ignore is that victims of NCII abuse face
 significant life disruptions, such as loss of job, being turned away by their
 families, etc, which in turn radically affects their mental health. In a 2013, a
 self-selected study conducted by the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative on Non-
 consensual Pornography (NCP), it was found that 93% of NCII abuse
 victims suffer significant social distress, 51% experience suicidal thoughts,
 and 82% experience social or occupational impairment. 14. With an increasing number of cases of NCII abuse in a
 simultaneously advancing digital community as well as keeping in mind that
 we are currently living in the digital age where accessibility to internet is
 becoming easier which is in turn leading to diverse and new forms of
 violence being perpetuated, this Court deems it necessary to conduct the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 14 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 following exercise and analyse NCII abuse through the prism of the IT Act and the Rules thereunder, as well as to carve out the roles that
 intermediaries, more specifically search engines, play in not only its
 distribution, but in its prevention as well. NCII vis-à-vis the IT Act and the IT Rules 15. While NCII in itself has not been explicitly defined either in the IT
 Act or the Rules thereunder, Rule 3(2)(b) of the IT Rules, which lays down
 the grievance redressal mechanism that is to be followed by an intermediary,
 more or less defines NCII as any content which prima facie exposes the
 private area of any individual/shows such individual in full or partial
 nudity/shows or depicts such individual in any sexual act or conduct/is in the
 nature of impersonation in an electronic form, including artificially morphed
 images. The provision has been reproduced as under: 16. However, the aforementioned definition does not mention the lack of
 consent in either producing the content or in dissemination of the content. Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 Further, Rule 3(2)(b) is not a charging offence. It is only under Section 66E of the IT Act that violation of privacy of an individual is punished with
 imprisonment which may extend to three years or with fine not exceeding
 two lakhs, or with both. Section 66E has been reproduced as under: 17. Explanation (a) to Section 66E clarifies that the term "transmit"
 means to electronically send a visual image with the intent that it be viewed
 by a person or persons; Explanation (d) states that the term "publishes"
 means reproduction in the printed or electronic form and making it available
 for public; and Explanation (e) notes that "under circumstances violating
 privacy" means circumstances in which persons have a reasonable
 expectation that they may disrobe in privacy or that any part of their private
 area would not be visible to the public, regardless of whether they are in a
 public or private place. 18. Further, Section 67 of the IT Act provides punishment for publishing
 or transmitting of obscene material in electronic form, and the said provision
 is as follows: or (b) creates text or digital images, collects,
 seeks, browses, downloads, advertises,
 promotes, exchanges or distributes material
 in any electronic form depicting children in
 obscene or indecent or sexually explicit
 manner; or (c) cultivates, entices or induces children to
 online relationship with one or more
 children for and on sexually explicit act or in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 18 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 a manner that may offend a reasonable adult
 on the computer resource; or (d) facilitates abusing children online, or (e) records in any electronic form own abuse
 or that of others pertaining to sexually
 explicit act with children,

 shall be punished on first conviction with
 imprisonment of either description for a term
 which may extend to five years and with fine
 which may extend to ten lakh rupees and in the
 event of second or subsequent conviction with
 imprisonment of either description for a term
 which may extend to seven years and also with
 fine which may extend to ten lakh rupees: Explanation-For the purposes of this section,
 ―children means a person who has not
 completed the age of 18 years. 67C. Preservation and retention of information by
 intermediaries.-(1) Intermediary shall preserve
 and retain such information as may be specified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 19 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 for such duration and in such manner and format
 as the Central Government may prescribe. (2) any intermediary who intentionally or
 knowingly contravenes the provisions of sub- section (1) shall be punished with an
 imprisonment for a term which may extend to
 three years and also be liable to fine.]‖

 Role of intermediaries in removal of NCII vis-à-vis IT Act and IT Rules 19. NCII's presence on the internet can be traced to "originators" who are
 responsible for uploading and publishing the content, and NCII's spread and
 its continued existence on the internet can be attributed to "intermediaries"
 that facilitate its flow and provide other users access to it. Before venturing
 into the role that intermediaries play in removal of offending content from
 the internet, it is imperative to reproduce the relevant provisions from the IT
 Act and the IT Rules for ease of comprehension. 20. Section 2(1)(o) of the IT Act defines "data" to mean information
 processed in a computer system or network in any form, including media. Section 2(1)(v) of the IT Act defines "information" to include data, message,
 text, images, sound, voice, codes, computer programmes, software and data
 bases or micro film or computer generated micro fiche, and Section 2(1)(w) of the IT Act defines "intermediary", with respect to any particular
 electronic records, to mean any person who on behalf of another person
 receives, stores or transmits that record or provides any service with respect
 to that record and includes telecom service providers, network service Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 20 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 providers, internet service providers, web-hosting service providers, search
 engines, online payment sites, online-auction sites, online-market places and
 cyber cafes. Section 2(1)(f) of the IT Rules defines "communication link" to
 mean a connection between a hypertext or graphical element, and one or
 more items in the same or different electronic document wherein upon
 clicking on a hyperlinked item, the user is automatically transferred to the
 other end of the hyperlink which can be another electronic record or another
 website or application or graphical element. 21. Section 69A of the IT Act enlists the power of the Central
 Government to issue directions for blocking for public access of any
 information through any computer resource. Section 69A(3) notes that any
 intermediary who fails to comply with the direction under Section 69A(1) shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may be extended to
 seven years and also be liable to a fine. The same has been reproduced as
 follows: section

 (2), for reasons to be recorded in writing, by
 order, direct any agency of the Government or
 intermediary to block for access by the public or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 21 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 cause to be blocked for access by the public any
 information generated, transmitted, received,
 stored or hosted in any computer resource. (2)
 The procedure and safeguards subject to which
 such blocking for access by the public may be
 carried out, shall be such as may be prescribed. (3) The intermediary who fails to comply with the
 direction issued under sub-section (1) shall be
 punished with an imprisonment for a term which
 may extend to seven years and also be liable to
 fine.‖ 22. An intermediary is exempted from incurring any liability in certain
 cases under Section 79 of the IT Act, which is known as the "safe harbour
 provision". This provision states that an intermediary shall not be liable for
 any third party information, data, or communication link made available or
 hosted by him. The intermediary in question is required to observe due
 diligence while discharging his duties under the Act and to also observe
 such other guidelines as the Central Government may prescribe in his
 behalf. Section 79(3) states that the protection under Section 79 lapses and
 does not apply if the intermediary has conspired or abetted or aided or
 induced, whether by threats or promise or otherwise in the commission of
 the unlawful act, or if upon receiving "actual knowledge", or if the
 intermediary fails to expeditiously remove or disable access to that material
 on that resource without vitiating the evidence in any manner on being
 notified by the appropriate Government or its agency that any information,
 data or communication link residing in or connected to a computer resource
 controlled by the intermediary is being used to commit the unlawful act. Section 79 of the IT Act is as under: Explanation.-For the purposes of this section, the
 expression ―third party information means any
 information dealt with by an intermediary in his
 capacity as an intermediary.‖ 23. With respect to the IT Rules, Rule 3 of the IT Rules assumes
 significance as it lays down due diligence that must be exercised by
 intermediaries and the grievance redressal mechanism that is to be employed
 by an intermediary. At this juncture, it is stated that the IT Rules have been
 amended by way of Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and
 Digital Media Ethics Code) Amendment Rules, 2022 (hereinafter referred
 to as the "2022 Amendment Rules"). This Court will, thus, refer to the
 amended Rule 3. Rule 3(1)(b) stipulates that the intermediary shall inform
 its rules and regulations, privacy policy and user agreement to the user in
 English or any language specified in the Eight Schedule to the Constitution
 in the language of his choice and shall make reasonable efforts to cause the
 user of its computer resource not to host, display, upload, modify, publish,
 transmit, store, update or share any information that, inter alia, belongs to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 24 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 another person and to which the user does not have any right, or is obscene,
 pornographic, paedophilic, invasive of another's privacy including bodily
 privacy, insulting or harassing on the basis of gender, etc. It is pertinent to
 note that prior to the amendment, the intermediary was merely required to
 inform the user to not host, display, upload, modify, publish, transmit, store,
 update or share the said content, but the amendment increases the burden on
 the intermediary. 24. First proviso to Rule 3(1)(d) enlists that in the case of any prohibited
 information as mentioned in Rule 3(1)(d), the intermediary is required to
 remove or disable access to that information, as early as possible, but in no
 case later than thirty-six hours from the receipt of the Court order or on
 being notified by the Appropriate Government or its agency, as the case may
 be. Furthermore, Section 3(1)(m) has been inserted in the 2022 Amendment
 Rules to state that the intermediary shall take all reasonable measures to
 ensure accessibility of its services to users along with reasonable expectation
 of due diligence, privacy and transparency, and the newly inserted Section
 3(1)(n) states that the intermediary shall respect all the rights accorded to the
 citizens under the Constitution, including in Articles 14 , 19 and 21. 25. Apart from knowledge of the offending information being supplied by
 way of a Court order or an order of the Appropriate Government or its
 agency, the IT Rules under Rule 3(2) introduces a detailed and time-bound
 grievance redressal mechanism to a user or a victim to approach the
 intermediary directly by making a complaint with regard to the violation of
 the provisions of Rule 3 to the Grievance Officer who is then supposed to
 acknowledge the complaint within twenty-four hours and then dispose of the
 same within a period of fifteen days from the date of its receipt. The 2022
 Amendment Rules have added a proviso to Rule 3(2)(a)(i) which states that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 25 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 if the complaint is in the nature of request for removal of information or
 communication link relating to Rule 3(1)(b), except sub-clauses (i), (iv) and (ix), the intermediary shall act upon the same as expeditiously as possible
 and resolve it within seventy-two hours of such reporting. 26. Under Rule 3(2)(b) and Rule 3(2)(c), within twenty-fours from receipt
 of complaint made by an individual or on their behalf in relation to content
 which is prima facie in the nature of any material which exposes the private
 area of such individual, shows such individual in full or partial nudity or
 shows or depicts such individual in any sexual act or conduct, or is in nature
 of impersonation in an electronic form, including artificially morphed
 images of such individual, the intermediary is required to take all reasonable
 and practicable measures to remove or disable access to such content which
 is hosted, stored, published or transmitted by it. Further, the intermediary is
 also required to implement a mechanism for the receipt of complaints under
 Rule 3(2)(b) which may enable the individual or person to provide details, as
 may be necessary, in relation to such content or communication link. 27. Rule 3 of the IT Rules has been reproduced as follows: Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806 (b) the intermediary shall inform its rules and
 regulations, privacy policy and user agreement to
 the user in English or any language specified in
 the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution in the
 language of his choice and shall make reasonable
 efforts to cause the user of its computer resource
 not to host, display, upload, modify, publish,
 transmit, store, update or share any information
 that,-- (i) belongs to another person and to which
 the user does not have any right; (ii) is obscene, pornographic, paedophilic,
 invasive of another's privacy including
 bodily privacy, insulting or harassing on the
 basis of gender, racially or ethnically
 objectionable, relating or encouraging
 money laundering or gambling, or promoting
 enmity between different groups on the
 grounds of religion or caste with the intent to
 incite violence; (iii) is harmful to child; (iv) infringes any patent, trademark,
 copyright or other proprietary rights; (v) deceives or misleads the addressee about
 the origin of the message or knowingly and
 intentionally communicates any
 misinformation or information which is
 patently false and untrue or misleading in
 nature; (vi) impersonates another person; (vii) threatens the unity, integrity, defence,
 security or sovereignty of India, friendly
 relations with foreign States, or public order, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 27 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 or causes incitement to the commission of
 any cognisable offence, or prevents
 investigation of any offence, or is insulting
 other nation; (viii) contains software virus or any other
 computer code, file or program designed to
 interrupt, destroy or limit the functionality of
 any computer resource; (ix) violates any law for the time being in
 force; (c) an intermediary shall periodically inform its
 users, at least once every year, that in case of
 non-compliance with rules and regulations,
 privacy policy or user agreement for access or
 usage of the computer resource of such
 intermediary, it has the right to terminate the
 access or usage rights of the users to the
 computer resource immediately or remove non- compliant information or both, as the case may
 be; (d) an intermediary, on whose computer resource
 the information is stored, hosted or published,
 upon receiving actual knowledge in the form of an
 order by a court of competent jurisdiction or on
 being notified by the Appropriate Government or
 its agency under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 79 of the Act, shall not host, store or
 publish any unlawful information, which is
 prohibited under any law for the time being in
 force in relation to the interest of the sovereignty
 and integrity of India; security of the State; friendly relations with foreign States; public
 order; decency or morality; in relation to
 contempt of court; defamation; incitement to an
 offence relating to the above, or any information Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 28 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 which is prohibited under any law for the time
 being in force: Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806 (j) the intermediary shall, as soon as possible, but
 not later than seventy two hours of the receipt of
 an order, provide information under its control or
 possession, or assistance to the Government
 agency which is lawfully authorised for
 investigative or protective or cyber security
 activities, for the purposes of verification of
 identity, or for the prevention, detection,
 investigation, or prosecution, of offences under
 any law for the time being in force, or for cyber
 security incidents: Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806 (m) the intermediary shall take all reasonable
 measures to ensure accessibility of its services to
 users along with reasonable expectation of due
 diligence, privacy and transparency; (n) the intermediary shall respect all the rights
 accorded to the citizens under the Constitution,
 including in the articles 14 , 19 and 21. (2) Grievance redressal mechanism of intermediary: four hours and resolve such complaint within
 a period of fifteen days from the date of its
 receipt: Provided further that appropriate
 safeguards may be developed by the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 32 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 intermediary to avoid any misuse by
 users; (ii) receive and acknowledge any order,
 notice or direction issued by the Appropriate
 Government, any competent authority or a
 court of competent jurisdiction. (b) The intermediary shall, within twenty-four
 hours from the receipt of a complaint made by an
 individual or any person on his behalf under this
 sub-rule, in relation to any content which is prima
 facie in the nature of any material which exposes
 the private area of such individual, shows such
 individual in full or partial nudity or shows or
 depicts such individual in any sexual act or
 conduct, or is in the nature of impersonation in an
 electronic form, including artificially morphed
 images of such individual, take all reasonable and
 practicable measures to remove or disable access
 to such content which is hosted, stored, published
 or transmitted by it: 28. Rule 7 of the IT Rules categorically states that if any intermediary
 fails to observe the rules, the safe harbour protection provided to the
 intermediary under Section 79 of the IT Act will stand vitiated and the
 intermediary shall stand liable for prosecution under any law for the time
 being in force, including the IT Act and the Indian Penal Code , 1860. Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806 29. Having reproduced the relevant provisions of the IT Act and IT Rules,
 we may now proceed with the role of the intermediaries. As can be
 discerned from the definition of "intermediaries" as provided by Section
 2(1)(w) , amongst various entities, search engines also fall under the category
 of intermediaries. A working paper on "Tackling the Dissemination and
 Redistribution of NCII" by Centre for Communication Governance (CCG)
 at National Law University, Delhi, observes that recognition of
 heterogeneity in intermediary functionality is necessary to ensure proper
 regulation of online content. The paper espouses that due to the
 heterogenous nature of intermediaries, mandating a single approach for
 removal of NCII content might prove to be ineffective. While espousing this
 viewpoint, the paper defines four different types of intermediaries: 30. Thus, while search engines do not themselves store and transmit
 content, they allow users to locate and visit content; basically, it enables
 individuals to find relevant webpages already available on the internet.
 Using the key-words provided by the user, a software known as ―crawlers‖
 is employed to scour the internet for the content that is being searched for
 and this process of crawling retrieves material in a matter of micro-seconds
 that is most relevant to the user. The material that is retrieved is stored and
 organized in an index which is a database of the content that has been
 discovered, which can then later be retrieved when searched for by a user.
 Search engines further rank the content in their order of relevance in a bid to
 solve the user's query at the earliest. It is relevant to note that as search
 engines do not host content per se, they cannot take down the content
 available on a third-party platform, such as websites. However, they can de-
 index specific URLs that can render the said content impossible to find due
 to the billions of webpages available on the internet and, consequently,
 reduce traffic to the said website significantly. 31. Search engines, however, cannot be categorised as social media
 intermediaries [Rule 2(1)(w)] or even significant social media intermediaries
 (SSMIs) [Rule 2(1)(v)] as they do not enable online interaction between two
 or more users, and they do not allow the users to create, upload, share,
 disseminate, modify or access information using its services. Thus, social Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 36 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram may qualify as
 SSMIs, however, a search engine such as Google Search will not. This has
 further been clarified in FAQ 12 issued by MEITY on Part III of the IT
 Rules. By not falling under the ambit of SSMIs, search engines can, thus, be
 categorised solely as intermediaries, and their obligations are only limited to
 Rule 3 which is applicable to all intermediaries and not Rule 4 of the IT
 Rules which provides for additional due diligence that must be observed by
 SSMIs. 32. Being an intermediary simpliciter, as has been stated above, search
 engines are obligated to observe due diligence while discharging its duties
 under Rule 3, including making reasonable efforts to cause the user of its
 computer resource not to host, display, upload, modify, publish, transmit,
 store, update or share any information that is invasive of another's privacy,
 including bodily privacy, and violates any law for the time being in force.
 Rule 3(1)(d) states that on receiving actual knowledge in the form of a Court
 order or on being notified by the Appropriate Government or its agency
 under Section 79(3)(b) , the search engine is required to not allow such
 offending content to continue on its platform, and it shall remove or disable
 access to that information as early as possible, but not later than thirty-six
 hours. For information received through the grievance redressal mechanism
 under Rule 3(2), the search engine is required to remove the offending
 content as expeditiously as possible and resolve the complaint within
 seventy-two hours of reporting. If the information is relating to content
 which is prima facie in the nature of any material which exposes the private
 area of such individual, shows such individual in full or partial nudity or
 shows or depicts such individual in any sexual act or conduct, or is in nature
 of impersonation in an electronic form, including artificially morphed Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 37 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 images of such individual, the search engine is required to take all
 reasonable and practicable measures to remove or disable access to such
 content which is hosted, stored, published or transmitted by it. A mechanism
 for reporting such content by the user/victim is also to be devised by the
 intermediary in question under Rule 3(2)(c). 33. Pertinently, violation of any of this will lead to the safe harbour
 protection under Section 79 being taken away, as stated in Rule 7. Section
 79 , which recognises the principle of secondary liability and protects
 intermediaries from being held liable for content that is generated by third-
 parties, is not absolute in nature. It is incumbent upon intermediaries to duly
 discharge their obligations in order to avail this protection, and any lapse in
 following the IT Rules [as per Section 79(2)(c) and Rule 7] can lead to the
 protection accorded to it being taken away and paving the way for easy
 prosecution for the intermediaries. CONTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES

 Submissions on behalf of the Amicus Curiae 34. Mr. Saurabh Kirpal, learned Amicus Curiae, has provided a short note
 pursuant to the Order of this Court dated 08.11.2021 whereby this assistance
 was sought, and the following submissions have been advanced by him: Annexure G, Pg. 346], 23. This mechanism is used to flag and identify videos
 that violate copyright laws. Smart technology is used to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 41 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 identify audio recordings in uploaded videos that
 infringe an individual's copyright [Ref. Annexure G,
 Pg. 348). Once these videos and audios are flagged by
 Respondent No.5/ YouTube, it has an option of, inter
 alia, blocking the content worldwide or in some
 countries/ regions [Ref. Annexure G, Pg. 348]. Therefore, tools for identifying objectionable content in
 audio-video form and blocking its access exist with
 Respondent No.5/ YouTube. True copy of Respondent No.5/ YouTube's Content ID
 System is annexed herewith as ANNEXURE G [Pg. 346
 to 348]. 24. Additionally, Respondent No.5/ YouTube's 'CSAI
 (Child Sexual Abuse Imagery) Match' is its proprietary
 technology for combating CSAI Match content online.
 This technology allows it to identify known CSAI
 content in a sea of innocent content. When a match of
 CSAI content is found, it is then flagged for reporting
 in accordance with local laws and regulations [Ref.
 Annexure H, Pg. 349]. True copy of Respondent No.5/ YouTube's CSAI Match
 Policy is annexed herewith as ANNEXURE H [Pg. 349
 to 353]. 25. Given the existence of technology to identify
 specific videos throughout the platform, the same can
 be deployed to identify the video in question in the
 captioned matter. Technology similar to the aforesaid
 can be used, wherein Respondent No.5/ YouTube and
 other audio-video based intermediaries that host the
 content in question can identify and flag it, and then
 block access to the content worldwide to ensure that
 the content becomes unavailable on these platforms. II. Image to Code Conversion Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 42 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806 26. Respondent No.3/ Google, in its policy against
 Child Sexual Abuse Material ('CSAM') states that it
 deploys technology with the help of AI to ensure no
 such material is accessible on the internet [Ref.
 Annexure I, Pg. 355]. Respondent No.3/ Google uses
 technology to deter, detect, and remove CSAM from its
 platforms. This includes automated detection and
 human review to detect, remove, and report CSAM on
 its platforms. It deploys hash matching, including
 Respondent No.5/ YouTube's CSAM Match, to detect
 known CSAM. 27. Respondent No.3/ Google identifies and reports
 CSAM with, inter alia, hash-matching technology,
 which creates a ‗hash' code, or unique digital
 fingerprint, for an image or a video so it can be
 compared with hashes of known CSAM. When it finds
 CSAM, it reports it to the National Center for Missing
 and Exploited Children ('NCMEC'), which liaises with
 law enforcement agencies around the world
 Respondent No.3/ Google identifies new CSAM it may
 create a hash code of the content and add it to its
 internal repository. Hashing technology allows
 Respondent No.3/ Google to find previously identified
 CSAM by comparing it to the repository and remove it
 from the platform [Ref. Annexure I, Pg. 355]. True copy of Respondent No.3/ Google's CSAM Policy
 is annexed herewith as ANNEXURE I [Pg. 354 to 364]. 28. This technology is also applied to video content. Respondent No.5/ YouTube's CSAM Match
 'Fingerprinter' has the ability to create a Fingerprint
 file of the video, a digital ID that uniquely represents
 the content of the video file. This is then compared with
 Respondent No.5/ YouTube's Fingerprint repository.
 The repository contains Fingerprints of known abusive
 content detected by Respondent No.5/ YouTube and
 Respondent No.3/ Google. Once the content is
 reviewed and identified as objectionable, the same is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 43 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 eligible to be removed in accordance with local laws
 and regulations [Ref. Annexure, Pg. 353]. 29. This technology, which is already being used to
 identify and remove CSAM content online, can be used
 to identify the images and/ or videos in the captioned
 matter, using the same identification algorithm. Once
 the content is identified, the same can be removed from
 all platforms to ensure that it becomes inaccessible to
 all individuals. 30. Additionally, Respondent No.3/ Google also
 deploys pattern and face recognition tools to recognize
 the common patterns of shapes and colors that make
 up the digital image of a face [Ref. Annexure J, Pg.
 365]. Therefore, since Respondent No.3/ Google
 possesses technology to detect images based on their
 pattern, the same technology can be used to detect the
 images of the Petitioner in the captioned matter, in
 order to flag and remove them from the internet. True copy of Respondent No.3/ Google's Pattern
 Recognition Policy is annexed herewith as
 ANNEXURE J [Pg. 365 to 366]. III. Keyword Searches 31. Respondent No.3/ Google, as a search engine
 functions in three steps; Firstly, it continually searches
 the web with automated programs called crawlers.
 Crawling is a discovery process whereby Respondent
 No.3/ Google uses technology (crawlers) to find new
 and updated web pages on the internet. Once new web
 pages are discovered, the crawlers follow links
 provided on those discovered web pages to find new
 URLs. This process is continued till all new URLs are
 discovered. Secondly, once any new or updated URL is
 found. Respondent No.3/ Google adds it to its index,
 which is a massive database of discovered URLs. This
 step is called indexing. Thirdly, when a search is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 44 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 conducted subsequently on the search engine, URLs
 are then retrieved from this index based on the terms
 searched for, location, user preferences etc., and the
 best matches are displayed [Ref. Annexure K, Pg. 367,
 369]. Essentially, when a user searches on Respondent
 No.3/ Google, they are not searching the live web.
 Instead, they search Respondent No.3/ Google's index
 of the web, which it regularly updates through
 crawling and indexing. Therefore, Respondent No.3/
 Google, by its very nature and architecture, has the
 ability to detect and block content that is adjudicated
 to be unlawful and subject to takedown. True copy of
 'How Google Search Works' available on
 developers.google.com is annexed herewith as
 ANNEXURE K [Pg. 367 to 372]. 32. Respondent No.3/ Google, as a matter of policy,
 deploys tools to restrict search of certain keywords on
 its search engine. It blocks search results that lead to
 child sexual abuse imagery or material that appears to
 sexually victimize, endanger, or otherwise exploit
 children. Respondent No.3/ Google constantly updates
 its algorithms to combat these evolving threats and
 applies extra protections to searches that it
 understands are seeking CSAM content. It filters out
 explicit sexual results if the search query seems to be
 seeking CSAM, and for queries seeking adult explicit
 content, the search will not return imagery that
 includes children, to break the association between
 children and sexual content. In many countries
 (including India), users who enter queries clearly
 related to CSAM are shown a prominent warning that
 child sexual abuse imagery is illegal, with information
 on how to report this content [Ref. Annexure L, Pg.
 373]. . True copy of Respondent No.3/ Google's Policy
 on Keyword Search is annexed herewith as
 ANNEXURE L [Pg. 373]. 33. Additionally, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India
 in the case of Sabu Mathew George v. Union of India Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 45 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 (2017) 2 SCC 516(2) propounded the 'doctrine of auto
 block', wherein intermediaries were directed to block a
 proposed list of words from search results on their
 platforms [Ref. Annexure M, Pg. 381, Para 9, Pg. 382
 Para 10]. The Court held that when such words are
 searched on search engines, the results shall be 'auto
 blocked' with a warning and nothing would be
 reflected on the internet, since it is prohibited under
 the laws in force. The relevant portion of the judgment
 is reproduced below; 34. In the present matter, take down orders of this
 Hon'ble Court may specify key words such as name of
 the victim appearing in the impugned URL. Intermediaries must proactively thereafter take down
 content contained in different URLs that is similar or
 identical to the impugned URL, and block search
 results bearing such keywords, in light of Respondent
 No.3/ Google's keyword search policy and the decision
 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sabu
 Mathew George (supra).‖

 Submissions on behalf of Google LLC 35. Mr. Arvind Nigam, learned Senior Counsel appearing for Google
 LLC and YouTube, i.e. Respondent Nos.3 and 5, has made the following
 submissions: 36. Mr. Jayant Mehta, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of
 Microsoft Ireland Operations Ltd., i.e. Respondent No. 4, has made the
 following submissions: c. The IT Rules notified on 25.02.2021 were framed pursuant to
 directions of the Supreme Court, and they are a product of a lengthy
 and thorough consultative process between all stakeholders which
 took into account the requirement of balancing of issues of public
 safety with technological advancement that has been achieved by
 tech companies as of date. Certain key events that led to the
 enactment of the IT Rules were a Rajya Sabha Motion dated
 26.07.2018 on "Misuse of Social Media Platforms and Spreading of
 Fake News" wherein the Minister for MEITY conveyed to the Upper
 House the need for a stronger legal framework to make social media
 platforms accountable under the law, and directions of the Supreme
 Court in In Re: Prajwala Letter dated 18.02.2015 Videos of Sexual
 Violence and Recommendations, S.M.W. (Crl.) No. 3 of 2015, as
 per which the Government of India had been directed to consult with
 intermediaries like Google, Microsoft, and WhatsApp, to formulate
 guidelines pertaining to circulation child pornography, rape and gang
 bang videos. d. During the public consultation regarding the IT Rules,
 comments and counter comments were invited, and it was observed
 that deployment of automated filtering of content would have
 harmful effects as it could lead to removal of legitimate content.
 Further, requiring intermediaries to filter content would amount to
 excessive and unreasonable restriction on the fundamental right to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 58 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 freedom of speech and expression. The decision to, thus, not
 incorporate auto-filtering/auto-moderation by intermediaries, was a
 deliberate and informed decision that was taken after weighing all
 pros and cons. Additionally, Rule 3(9) of the Draft Rules which were
 released on 24.12.2018 had provided for the intermediary to deploy
 technology-based automated tools or appropriate mechanisms, with
 appropriate controls, for proactively identifying and removing or
 disabling access to unlawful information or content. However, this
 Rule was deleted post the consultative process, and pro-active
 filtering of any form is limited to Significant Social Media
 Intermediaries (SSMIs) as under Rule 4(4) of the IT Rules. Further,
 this Rule limits the obligation to actively filter to an ―endeavour‖ to
 employ such measures, and is non-binding in nature. e. Courts should refrain from interfering with rules and
 regulations that are framed by the Government, and the same has
 been reiterated by the Supreme Court time and again in various
 judgements such as Federation of Railway Officers Association v.
 Union of India , (2003) 4 SCC 289 and Dr. Ashwini Kumar v. Union
 of India, (2020) 13 SCC 585. Further, interference cannot be made
 in a vacuum and only on the basis of the desirability of solutions. f. Reliance has been placed on MySpace Inc. v. Supercassettes
 Industries Ltd. , 2016 SCC OnLine Del 6382 to submit that the safe
 harbour protection under Section 79 of the IT Act demonstrates that
 the Parliament was mindful of the diligence that can be carried out
 by the intermediary. However, obligating intermediaries with Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 59 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 identifying infringing content from the non-infringing one would
 lead to impeding free speech and privatized censorship. Further, it
 would lead to the intermediary in question being liable for contempt
 of Court for not being able to comply with an Order that is
 impossible to perform. Thus, intermediaries may only remove
 content once it receives specific instances of the same and should
 refrain from doing so proactively. Submissions on behalf of MEITY 37. Mr. Anurag Ahluwalia, learned CGSC, has advanced the following
 submissions of behalf of MEITY: Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806 12. It is submitted that the IT Rules, 2021 provide for
 the following statutory timelines for grievance
 redressal and content takedown: Submissions on behalf of Delhi Police 38. Ms. Nandita Rao, learned ASC (Criminal) for GNCTD, has advanced
 the following suggestions on behalf of Delhi Police. The same has been
 reproduced as under: 39. With the advent of the internet, its increasing access to the world at
 large, its ubiquity as well as with its all-encompassing nature and lack of
 borders, the dissemination of unlawful content by any individual can done
 with ease and without expeditious detection of the source of the same. As
 our virtual identities steadily gain more importance and space, the
 immortality of the internet raises questions on its impact on one's right to
 privacy and right to be forgotten. The internet never forgets, and once such
 content is uploaded, it becomes exceptionally difficult to control its spread. Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 In cases like these, the Court must appreciate that the matter is not
 adversarial in nature with no right or wrong, and the directions/guidelines
 are not such that there is an element of impossibility in its implementation,
 thereby frustrating the entire exercise; the aim of this exercise is to ensure
 that the victim of NCII dissemination does not have to undergo any further
 distress. Any solution that is provided must be deliberate and proportional,
 and should not be akin to a remedy that is worse than the disease. This Court
 cannot burn the house to roast the pig [Refer to decision of Supreme Court
 of United States in Reno v. American Civil Liberties Union, 521 US 244]. 40. As has been discussed above, intermediaries are granted protection
 and are not amenable to the principle of secondary liability on account of Section 79 of the IT Act. The principle of secondary liability denotes the
 legal responsibility that must be discharged by an entity for the actions of
 another. Section 79 exempts an intermediary from incurring this liability,
 and the rationale behind the same is that the fundamental rights of the users
 and the free flow of information on the internet must remain intact.
 However, once an intermediary, upon receiving actual knowledge, or on
 being notified by the appropriate Government or its agency that an unlawful
 act is being committed by way of any information, data or communication
 link residing in or connected to a computer resource controlled by the
 intermediary, fails to remove or disable access to the said material, then Section 79(1) shall not apply. It is only under these exceptional
 circumstances that the principle of secondary liability is activated, and,
 despite NCII abuse being perpetuated by a third-party user and causing harm
 to a stranger, the intermediary becomes liable for the conduct of the third-
 party user. Further, the IT Rules also devise a mechanism for the user/victim
 to directly approach intermediaries for removal of NCII content without Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 64 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 having to obtain a Court order. Therefore, apart from making its own
 reasonable efforts in not publishing offending content, intermediaries can be
 requested to takedown offending content after being informed by a Court
 order or by an order of the appropriate Government or by the user
 themselves. NCII and Right to Privacy 41. The Court order or order of the appropriate Government or its agency
 has to be in pursuance of the infringement of any law for the time being in
 force. In the instant case, not only does uploading of NCII lead to a clear
 violation of the provisions of the IT Act and IT Rules, it is also a violation of
 the right to privacy which is a sacrosanct aspect of Article 21 of the
 Constitution of India as held by a 9-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court in K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of India , (2017) 10 SCC 1. In the said
 Judgement, the Supreme Court observed that privacy has distinct
 connotations, including decisional autonomy which comprehends intimate
 personal choices and informational control which empowers an individual to
 retain control over information pertaining to the individual. It would be
 appropriate at this juncture to reproduce the relevant paragraphs describing
 the various aspects of privacy: and (ix) informational privacy which reflects an interest in
 preventing information about the self from being
 disseminated and controlling the extent of access to
 information.‖ 42. An individual's right to exercise control over their personal data has
 also been recognised by the Supreme Court in K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of
 India (supra). It was observed therein that while it is not an absolute right,
 this right to exercise control over personal data would also encompass an Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 67 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 individual's right to control their existence on the internet. The following
 observation was made: 43. This right to privacy is also inextricably linked with the right to live a
 life with dignity. As noted in Section 66E of the IT Act as well, individuals
 have a reasonable expectation to privacy which is not lost within the
 confines of a domestic relationship, or even if any intimate image is shared
 with another person with the understanding and the expectation that the
 same will not be shared with third persons. The context in such situations
 matter with privacy being the expectation that information about an
 individual will be treated appropriately and in accordance with the
 individual's expectations; it is the said individual who retains control over
 any information pertaining to themselves. As a corollary, if the individual
 has the right to informational privacy, it also subsumes the individual's right
 to be forgotten which has been held to be the consequence of the dignity of
 an individual and, thus, a facet of the right to privacy. 44. A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has recently in Vysakh
 K.G. v. Union of India and Ors., 2022 SCC OnLine Ker 7337, while
 adjudicating upon right to privacy vis-à-vis right to information, referred to
 Cécile de Terwangne's paper on "Internet Privacy and Right to be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 68 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 Forgotten/Right to Oblivion" to state that ―in the context of the Internet this
 dimension of privacy means informational autonomy or informational self-
 determination...Information self-determination means the control over one's
 personal information, the individual's right to decide which information will
 be disclosed, to whom and for what purpose‖. The Judgement goes on to
 observe that, in the digital context, the "right to delisting" and "right to
 oblivion" are facets of the right to be forgotten. 45. The argument that has been advanced by the learned Senior Counsel
 appearing for the Respondent intermediaries is that as search engines merely
 provide access to content and are not responsible for hosting the said
 content, directions must be rendered to the publishers and not the search
 engines themselves. It is at this stage that a search engine's role in ensuring
 that one's right to privacy is not contravened comes into prominence,
 especially with Rule 3(1)(m) which states that the intermediary shall respect
 all the rights accorded to the citizens under the Constitution, including Articles 14 , 19 and 21. It is further essential to state that the continued
 existence of NCII content on the internet does not serve any public interest
 and it is punishable under Section 66E of the IT Act. The argument,
 therefore, put forth on behalf of the Respondent intermediaries is not
 acceptable to this Court. Social Responsibility of Search Engines 46. The duty and the liability of a search engine has been expounded in
 Judgement of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) in Google
 Spain SL, Google Inc. v. Agencia Española de Protección de Datos, Case C-
 131/12, wherein the Plaintiff's grievance was that a Google Search of his Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 69 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 name retrieved links to newspaper articles on his insolvency proceedings.
 The CJEU held that the role played by a search engine is such that it can
 significantly affect the fundamental rights to privacy and protection of
 personal data, and thus, a search engine must ensure that, within the
 framework of its responsibilities, powers and capabilities, its activities must
 comply with the law which would be rendered ineffective without its
 compliance. The CJEU also recognised the "right to be forgotten" and held
 that if the user's request was found to be in consonance with the law, then it
 was incumbent upon the search engine to remove the links in question as the
 law would supersede the search engine's financial interests as well as the
 interest of the general public in accessing that information. The relevant
 portion of the Press Release No. 70/2014 on the said Judgement issued in
 the English language by the Court of Justice of European Union at
 Luxembourg on 13.05.2014 reads as under: 47. In another ruling of the CJEU in Google LLC v. Commission
 Nationale de l'informatique et des libertés (CNIL, Case C-507/2017, it was
 observed that it was for the search engine operator to take, if necessary,
 sufficiently effective measures to ensure the effective protection of the
 fundamental rights of the data subject (user/victim). These measures were
 required to meet all legal requirements and ―must have the effect of
 preventing or, at the very least, seriously discouraging internet users in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 73 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 Member States from gaining access to the links in question using a search
 conducted on the basis of that data subject's name‖. 48. However, in Da Cunha v. Yahoo de Argentina SRL and Another,
 Expte. N 561/2010, a case about defamatory search results, the Supreme
 Court of Justice of Argentina recognised that intermediary liability regimes
 in the European Union and the United States also accord immunity to
 intermediaries which remains contingent upon disabling of illegal content
 upon obtaining "actual knowledge" of the specific violation. They are,
 however, under no duty of general monitoring or policing of third-party
 data, and using filters to block search results would amount to prior
 censorship. 49. Closer to home, in Vysakh K.G. v. Union of India and Ors. (supra),
 the Kerala High Court has succinctly observed that Google cannot be said to
 be content-blind to publications made online and it is not a mere passive
 conduit. Rejecting the lack of liability as professed by the learned Counsel
 appearing for Google, the Kerala High Court observed as follows: 50. A review Petition, being R.P. No.107/2023, was preferred by Google
 Incorporation which was one of the Respondents, against the
 aforementioned judgment. Vide Order dated 30.03.2023, the Division Bench
 of the Kerala High Court observed as under: 51. In a paper by L.M. Hinman on "Searching Ethics: The Role of Search
 Engines in the Construction and Distribution of Knowledge", it has been
 stated that with the increasing importance and pervasiveness of search
 engines, it can be found that search engines can no longer be said to be just
 providing access to knowledge, but are playing a central role in the
 constitution of knowledge itself. Users of search engines are increasingly
 dependent on search engines to filter through the ever-expanding universe of
 online data. Its pervasiveness is such that the very term "Google" is now
 used as a verb and is synonymous with "search". As a result, the mere de-
 indexing of an URL has an incremental impact on protecting one's right to
 be forgotten as it makes it almost impossible for someone to access the
 offending material if they are already not in possession of the specific URLs. 52. What can be culled out from the aforesaid legal literature is that a
 search engine plays an important role in the dissemination of content and its
 powers in connecting the said content to the consumers is undeniable. When
 viewed in this light, it is unfathomable as to how a search engine can feign
 helplessness when it comes to removal of or disabling access to links which
 prima facie contain content that is illegal as declared by the Court. There
 resides a social obligation in these intermediaries to be proactive in de- Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 indexing such links when it comes to its knowledge that such content is
 illegal. This Court finds the suggestion untenable that the user/victim must
 approach either the intermediary in question or the Courts every single time
 the NCII content is duplicated. Such a suggestion also frustrates the
 legislative intent behind the IT Rules which devises a time-bound schedule
 in removal of such content. An approach that entails the victim/user having
 to sift through the internet to identify and then share every URL hosting
 their NCII is unconscionable in the eyes of this Court. Offending Entities Possess the Requisite Technology 53. Moreover, search engines cannot hide under the garb of not
 possessing the adequate technology to remove NCII content which has been
 reported without the victim/user having to approach the intermediary again
 and again. As per the Affidavit of Google LLC, hash-matching technology,
 which generates a unique identifier/fingerprint/hash, exists for the purpose
 of removing CSAM. This technology further allows detection and removal
 of the matched content that has previously been removed. For the purposes
 of removal of NCII, once such content has been identified and removed, the
 hash-matching technology can store only the unique identifier pertaining to
 the NCII content and in the event that such content is re-uploaded, it can
 filter out the same by going through its database of such fingerprints. A
 similar tool has already been built by Meta, available on www.stopncii.org
 to curtail the spread of NCII, and it can be used by the victim to create a
 unique fingerprint of the offending image which is stored in the database to
 prevent re-uploads. The tool is meant to compare this fingerprint (or hash)
 with the hashes of all the other images available on the site; if any image is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 78 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 found to be identical, it is taken down. Microsoft has also developed a
 software by the name of Photo DNA which is currently being used to
 identify CSAM and is also being used by platforms such as Google and
 Twitter, and the database of the hashes generated is maintained by an
 independent organisation. YouTube has also developed CSAI (Child Sexual
 Abuse Imagery) Match which is used by NGOs and other companies to
 identify against the database of known abusive content 54. Flowing from the above, while this Court is of the opinion that
 entities of the nature of Google and Microsoft, considering their ubiquity,
 cannot abscond or withdraw from their duties to the public at large in the
 name of reducing the liability they might incur, this Court is inclined to
 agree with the submissions of the learned Senior Counsel appearing for
 Google and Microsoft that any direction that necessitates pro-active filtering
 on the part of intermediaries may have a negative impact on the right to free
 speech. No matter the intention of deployment of such technology, its
 application may lead to consequences that are far worse and dictatorial. Is Right to Free Speech Being Violated ? 55. One of the concerns that arises when we consider the right to privacy
 of an individual under Article 21 is its impact on the right to freedom of
 expression and speech under Article 19(1)(a) which is an argument that has
 been posed by all parties in the instant matter. This issue requires an
 interpretation of the phrase "such content" in Rule 3(2)(b) and whether the
 same means a specific instance of identified NCII, as has been contended by
 the intermediaries, or all such content of identical nature, as submitted by
 the learned Amicus Curiae. This Court is of the opinion that construing the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 79 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 phrase "such content" as "all content" is necessary to reduce the burden on
 the user/victim, however, "all content", access to which is to be disabled,
 must pertain to NCII abuse that has already been reported. Further, it is
 pertinent to note that unlike copyright infringement [as was the issue in MySpace Inc. v. Supercassettes Industries Ltd. (supra)], defamation, etc.,
 NCII content conveys a higher degree of harm in society. 56. In a Judgement of this Court in X v. Union of India, W.P.(Crl .) 1082
 of 2020, a direction had been given to all intermediaries by the learned
 Single-Judge Bench to engage in proactive monitoring and removal of NCII
 content that the Court had deemed to be illegal. There is currently an appeal
 pending against the said Judgement, however, no stay has been granted, and
 thus, the Order is still in operation. The working paper published by CCG
 records the risks that overbroad directions may pose, however, the viability
 of the directions in the said Judgement is of no consequence in the instant
 matter as the directions and suggestions being issued herein are restricted to
 search engines only. The relevant portion of the working paper is as under: 57. In such circumstances, a reading of the provisions that bestow an
 obligation upon an intermediary cannot be done in isolation and has to be
 conducted in a purposive manner. The principle of purposive interpretation
 focuses on interpretation of a provision in light of the purpose for which it
 was enacted. As has been stated by the MEITY itself, the IT Rules, which
 increases the burden upon intermediaries and widens their scope of losing
 their safe harbour under Section 79 , were notified for ensuring open, safe,
 trusted and accountable Internet. The recent 2022 Amendment Rules also
 demonstrate the increase in the obligations of the intermediaries which is
 explicit in how intermediaries are now required to expend "reasonable
 efforts" in ensuring that its users do not host, publish, display, share, etc. any
 offending material defined under Rule 3(1)(b) instead of merely "informing"
 the users about the same, which was the case earlier. Search engines being
 an intermediary cannot hide behind the argument that they merely provide
 access to third-party websites as due diligence exercised as per Rule 3 is
 applicable to all intermediaries. 58. However, at this juncture, this Court finds to necessary to reiterate
 that in the instant case, the lackadaisical approach of the Respondents has
 come to light after a valid Court order has been rendered regarding
 takedown of the offending content. There is substance in the submission of
 the learned Amicus Curiae that the intermediaries cannot take shelter of the
 decision of the Apex Court in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India (supra) for
 the reason that an effective Court order regarding takedown of the unlawful
 content has already been rendered. Further, the IT Rules have now come
 into place which was not the case when the decision in Shreya Singhal v. Neutral Citation Number: 2023: DHC:2806

 Union of India (supra) was rendered. In addition to "actual knowledge" as
 defined in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India (supra) as a Court order or upon
 being notified by the appropriate Government, Rule 3(2)(b) and (c) of the IT
 Rules now allows the victim/user to approach the intermediary on their own
 with their grievance. Further, it already mandates a timeline that must be
 adhered to when it comes to disabling access/de-linking the offending
 content. If read holistically, if the user/victim is required to approach with
 each specific URL again and again, this will only frustrate the purpose of the
 timelines and the grievance mechanism redressal as expounded under the IT
 Rules. It has been submitted that the sustained practice with regard to
 content removal under the IT Act has been to provide specific URLs,
 however, this practice fails to account for a grievance redressal mechanism
 available to the user/victim and it is not justifiable, morally or otherwise, to
 suggest that an NCII abuse victim will have to constantly subject themselves
 to trauma by having to scour the internet for NCII content relating to them
 and having to approach the authorities again and again. Once it has been
 reported by the user/victim or a Court order or an order of the appropriate
 Government has been rendered, then the search engine cannot contend that
 any filtering of the content that is done subsequent to the reporting or the
 Order is proactive in nature; it can only be termed as being in pursuance to
 the reporting of existence of such content specific to an individual or a
 judicial Order. 59. The fact that search engines do not host or publish or create content
 themselves is of no consequence when it comes to the question of removal
 of the access to the offending content. It is undeniable that they do have the
 ability, the capacity, and the legal obligation to disable access to the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 82 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 offending content; this responsibility of the search engine cannot be brushed
 under the carpet on the ground that it does not host content. 60. This Court painfully notes that there is an abysmal absence of a
 collaborative effort that should ideally be undertaken by the intermediaries
 and the State. The focus of such entities and authorities should be on the
 quick redressal of the complaint brought before them rather than the shirking
 of blame or making submissions on the onerous nature of their duties. In the
 process of shirking responsibility, precious time is lost in removal of the
 offending content and it enables the offender to keep reposting the content.
 It further encourages other potential offenders to undertake such
 dissemination of NCII content as they are aware of the lack of
 consequences. This in turn frustrates the legal redressal mechanism in place
 and the harm, both emotional and reputational, caused to the victim/user
 persists and perpetuates. In a conservative country like India where matters
 of this nature are not a part of dinner table conversations, NCII abuse does
 indeed lead to harrowing consequences and everlasting stigma for the
 victim. In light of this, the endeavour of every entity involved should be to
 expeditiously resolve the issue. DIRECTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 61. In view of the foregoing observations, this Court deems it fit to render
 the following directions and recommendations to the Respondent
 Intermediaries, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology
 (MEITY), as well as the Delhi Police, for ensuring that cases of the instant
 nature are dealt in a manner that minimises the trauma caused to the victim
 and resolves the problem at hand expeditiously: 62. This lengthy exercise undertaken by this Court became necessary to
 protect the sanctity of due process so that a stop could be put to the Orders Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 87 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50 Neutral Citation Number: 2023:DHC:2806

 of the Court being frustrated and undermined. Despite the existence of a
 legal framework governing the instant subject as well as the existence of the
 automated tools required to prevent the reproduction of NCII content that is
 ex facie illegal, this Court has taken judicial notice of the reluctance
 exhibited by intermediaries and the actual state of affairs when it comes to
 implementation of the law. This Court hopes that the directions and the
 suggestions provided herein will be duly followed by the entities involved. 63. This Court acknowledges the contribution of the learned Amicus
 Curiae, Mr. Saurabh Kirpal, and is pleased to extend its immense gratitude
 to him and his colleagues for their invaluable assistance and inputs on an
 issue of this nature and bringing much needed clarity to the same. This
 Court also acknowledges the contribution of Ms. Radhika Roy, Law
 Researcher, for her research, assistance and inputs in the case. 64. While there may be some issues that remain unaddressed, this Court
 feels compelled to state that the IT Act and the IT Rules are comprehensive
 and unambiguous in delineating the nature of obligations of intermediaries.
 Thus, the concerned authorities and entities must, without fail, comply with
 and implement the provisions stipulated thereunder. This Court, therefore,
 grants liberty to the learned Amicus Curiae to move an appropriate
 application in this regard, including any application for modification or
 clarification of directions/suggestions given above. 65. In view of the above observations and directions, the instant writ
 petition is disposed of, along with pending application(s), if any. SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J
 APRIL 26, 2023/Rahul/RR Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHAZAAD ZAKIR W.P.(CRL) 1505/2021 Page 88 of 88 Signing Date:26.04.2023 17:19:50