These petitions are filed by petitioner/accused Nos.3

& 5 for enlarging them on anticipatory bail in the event of

their arrest in Cr.No.1/2024 registered by cyber crime

Police Station for the offences punishable under Sections

343 , 344 , 409 , 426 , 34 , 36 , 37 , 201 and 204 of IPC and Sections 66 and 84C of the Information Technology Act,

2000. 2. The Criminal Petition No.2535/2024 is filed by

Accused No.3, while Criminal Petition No.2146/2024 is

filed by Accused No.5 in Crime No.1/2024 of Cyber Crime

Police Station at Bengaluru, for the above noted offences. 3. On the basis of complaint lodged by Sri. K.

Ravishankar, who was the Investigating Officer in

Cr.No.153/2020 of Cottonpet Police Station and

Cr.No.91/2020 of K.G. Nagar Police Station, the present

case in Cr.No.1/2024 was registered. 4. The allegations of the prosecution disclose that,

the petitioners being Investigating Officers along with

other accused colluded in order to have unlawful gain and

have also caused destruction of evidence in order to

screen themselves from legal consequences. It is alleged

that they have hatched criminal conspiracy and thereby

keeping the accused by name Sriki and Robin Khandelwal

in illegal police custody pertaining to investigation of

various crimes undertaken by them, provided them all the

liberty with laptop in order to facilitate hacking, exchanges

in order to have benefit in bit coins. It is further alleged

that petitioners were also instrumental in providing the

contraband-Xanz to accused, who were in police custody

without medical supervisation and petitioner/Accused No.3

in Crl.P.2146/2024 has facilitated the accused-Sriki to

send mail to his friend, which clearly disclose in what way

this petitioner has provided all the facilities to the

accused, who were in the custody of police, including

laptop, free wifi etc. This conduct on the part of the

petitioners/accused Nos. 3 & 5 is in order to hack crypto

exchanges in order to have wrongful gain. It is alleged -5- that petitioners took possession of one plus mobile phone

of accused Robin Khandelwal and provided it to accused

No.1 and they took control of various sites, changed

passwords of crypto wallets, gmail cloud and accessed to

them as well as used them without the approval of the

Court. In the said process, it is alleged that they facilitated

accused No.1 to transfer bit coins worth of Rs.98,280/-

from Wazir Exchange Crypto Wallet of Robin Khandelwal

to UNOCOIN wallet of accused No.1. It is also alleged that

though this mobile was seized, it went untraced till

17.07.2023 and it was retained with the company of

accused No.1. 5. It is also alleged that the crypto wallet

containing 31 bit coins worth of Rs.9 crores were seized

under mahazar on 08.01.2021. But later on, another

mahazar was drawn on 22.01.2021, making a simple

assertion that he was only a mirage image and nothing

was seized. It is also alleged that the petitioners have also

having custody of Robin Khandelwal and had facilitated

accused No.1 to transfer Rs.2,53,160/- from Paytm -6- account of Robin Khandelwala on 16.01.2021 and bit coin

worth of same amount was purchased from Wazir

exchange. It is further alleged that though the accused

were investigating the crime pertaining to hacking and NDPS Act , but the way they dealt the matter, it is evident

that they had recovered bit coins and the way of

investigation was entirely different which is evident from

conversation recorded in group of the evidence. 6. It is also alleged that the petitioner/accused

No.3 in Crl.P.No.2146/2024 is declared as proclaimed

offender and the other petitioner has abused his position

by misappropriating 31 bit coins by creating a false

mahazar subsequently. It is further asserted that the

petitioner has taken the assistance of a private

person/accused No.1 and the Mahazar ought to have been

drawn by petitioner being the Investigating Officer, but he

allowed the Mahazar to be drawn by accused No.1, which

discloses his involvement in crime. Hence, both the

petitioners were prosecuted in this regard and on the

basis of this complaint, the FIR came to be issued. The -7- petitioners apprehending their arrest, have approached

the learned Sessions Judge and their bail petition came to

be rejected. Hence, the petitioners are before this Court

seeking anticipatory bail. 7. The main contention of learned Senior Counsels

Sri. Shyam Sunder and Sri. Kiran .S. Jawali, appearing for

the petitioners regarding illegal custody that the matter

has already reached finality since the Division Bench of

this Court has already held that the allegations of illegal

custody is false and no such complaint is made by the

victims themselves. It is further asserted that though the

allegations were regarding misappropriation of 31 bit

coins, the subsequent mahazar discloses that it was a live

exchange which cannot be transferred and hence question

of misappropriation does not arise at all. It is alleged that

petitioners never investigated regarding bit coins and their

investigation was in respect of only hacking and the

offence under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic

Substances Act, 1985 (' NDPS Act ' for short). It is

contended that though victims did not file any complaint, -8- but subsequently Investigating Officer has initiated the

action and the petitioners being public servants for having

discharged their duties have been made as a scapegoats.

Hence, the petitioners have sought for admitting them on

bail. 8. Per contra, the learned Special Public

Prosecutor would seriously oppose the bail petition. He

would contend that though regarding illegal custody there

is a finding by the Division Bench, but the said order was

obtained by misleading the Court. He would contend that

email sent by Sriki to his friend discloses that though he

was in custody, he was given free access and he would

contend that though the date was wrongly typed, but the

records disclose that it was in the period of police custody

which clearly establish that wrong mentioning of the date

in the complaint itself is not a ground for discarding the

evidence of prosecution. He would also contend that the

Mahazar dated 08.01.2021 disclose regarding recovery of

31 bit coins, but the subsequent mahazar dated

22.01.2021 disclose that it is only live exchange and when -9- compared these screen shots it is evident that they are

not one and the same, but they are different. It is further

alleged that the records disclose that the petitioners have

not investigated pertaining to the allegations in the crime

but they investigated regarding the bit coins and siphoned

the bit coins worth of Rs.9 crores. It is further asserted

that though there is a specific cyber/technical wing in CID,

petitioner preferred to go for a private expert/accused

No.1 and allowed him to draw a mahazar, which is not

permissible and mahazar of recovery of bit coins was

subsequently given a go-by in the second mahazar, since

the mahazars were drawn by accused No.1, though

Investigating officer was petitioner in

Crl.P.No.2535/2024. 9. The learned Special Public Prosecutor would

also contend that nano ledgers were secured and no

explanation is forthcoming regarding securing nano

ledgers and all these aspects are required to be

interrogated and destructed data needs to be recovered.

It is further asserted that private laptop was also used to - 10 - have access and hacking all the data, and they were not

surrendered by co-operating with the investigation and at

a belated stage, it is surrendered and it revealed that

certain data is erased, which needs to be recovered. He

would also contend that it is not a case of fabrication, but

it is case of siphoning of the bit coins under the guise of

investigation, by using private experts by hacking the

poker sites. He would also contend that the petitioner in

Crl.P.No.2146/2024 is a proclaimed offender and hence,

question of he seeking anticipatory bail does not arise at

all. Hence, he would seek for rejection of both the bail

petitions as custodial interrogation of petitioners is

essential. 10. Having heard the arguments and perusing

the records, it is evident that the petitioners were

investigating officers in different crimes bearing

Cr.No.153/2020 of Cottonpet police station and

Cr.No.91/2020 of K.G. Nagar Police Station. 11. The records disclose that the petitioner/accused

No.3 in Crl.P.No.2535/2024 was also an investigating - 11 - officer in Cr.No.45/2020 and they have arrested

accused/Sri Krishna alias Sriki and Robin Khandelwal and

taken them to police custody during the course of

investigation. No doubt Cr.No.45/2020 was registered at

the instance of petitioner/Chandradhar/Accused No.3, but

he himself was the investigating officer in the said crime

also. The records disclose that during the course of

investigation, the petitioner/ Chandradhar has recovered

31 bit coins worth Rs.9 crores and same is recorded under

a mahazar. However, a subsequent mahazar was drawn

wherein it is shown as if it is only live exchange and there

was no recovery. Admittedly, both these mahazars were

got done by petitioner/Accused No.3-Chandradhar through

accused No.1, who is a private expert running a firm i.e.,

GCID Technologies Pvt Ltd., being a CEO. It is for the

petitioners to explain as to why he has secured the

services of the private expert when there is a technical

cyber team in CID wing itself. Though it is asserted that as

per the oral directions of the higher officers they have

approached the private firm, it is not supported by any

material evidence. - 12 - 12. Though the allegations disclose that 31 bit

coins of worth Rs.9 crores were said to have been

recovered under a Mahazar, but subsequently while

drawing second mahazar it was shown to be a live

exchange and question of recovery does not arise at all.

But when password and ID were changed to have access,

question of subsequent transfer in this regard by way of

live exchange does not arise at all. There is no proper

explanation regarding missing of 31 bit coins and

interestingly, both the mahazars dated 08.01.2021 and

22.01.2021 were drawn by accused No.1, who is a CEO of

M/s. GCID Technologies Pvt Ltd and they were not drawn

by the petitioner Chandradhar who himself is an

Investigating Officer. He was required to investigate

regarding hacking, but the records disclose that they are

said to have recovered 31 bit coins, but no further

investigation was done in this regard. The allegations now

made regarding accused No.1 is that, he manipulated the

bit coins core/port application by misleading the

investigation. But, nothing was prevented the petitioner - 13 - from availing services of cyber wing of CID and he did not

explain the same. Further, he did not draw mahazar on his

own, but he allowed accused No.1 to draw the mahazar

and he simply signs as if it was done in his presence. This

conduct on the part of the petitioner clearly disclose that

the entire transaction was allowed to be done by accused

No.1 by this petitioner and he is required to explain all

these aspects. 13. The records further disclose that accused No.1

being the CEO of GCID Technologies Pvt Ltd committed

illegal activities of hacking, transferring the bit coins,

change of pass word etc., with the active assistance of Sri

Krishna alias Sriki and Robin Khandelwal, and with the

assistance of accused No.1 they had access to crypto

wallet belonging to Robin Khandelwal while he was in

police custody and transferred the bit coins of worth

Rs.1,83,624/- to the wallet of accused No.1 which was

allowed. 14. The records further disclose that though

Cr.No.45/2020 was in respect of data theft by poker Sites, - 14 - there was an attempt to transfer bit coins by keeping Sri

Krishna in GCID office during his custody period. The

records also disclose that Sri Krishna was provided with

MSIL Laptop and there was an attempt to transfer the bit

coins and hack the other websites. Though the recovery of

31 bit coins by transferring to police wallet was shown in

the mahazar dated 08.01.2021, subsequently, by mahazar

dated 22.01.2021 it was shown as a false transaction.

Apart from that, during the period of police custody of

Robin Khandelwal from 06.01.2021 to 19.02.2021 a sum

of Rs.99,000/- was transferred from Paytm account of

Robin Khandelwal and the bit coins were purchased from

wazir exchange. Again on 16.01.2021 Rs.2,53,160/- was

transferred from paytm account of Robin Khandelwal and

bit coins were purchased from Wazir and in this period

Robin Khandelwal was in police custody of the petitioner.

It is for the petitioner to explain these anomalies. 15. Apart from that, as per the circular issued by

Government of Karnataka dated 17.03.2017 bearing

No.HD 17 CWP2017, there was a direction to all the - 15 - Investigating officers as per the order of this Court in

Crl.P.No.100822/2016 in respect of investigation of any

documents, same shall be referred to State Forensic

Laboratory and not a private laboratory. In the instant

case, the records disclose that the services of accused

No.1 were taken, though there is a separate cyber wing in

the CID office. But the petitioners preferred the services of

accused No.1 who was the CEO of GCID Technologies Pvt

Ltd. Even the petitioner had gone to the extent of allowing

accused No.1 to draw the mahazar instead of drawing

mahazar by himself. 16. As regards the other petitioner/accused No.5-

Shridhar K Pujar, it is evident that though accused Sriki

alias Sri Krishna was in his custody, he was provided with

laptop and free internet. As a result, he sent email to his

friend. When accused/Sriki was in custody, question of he

sending email to his friend does not arise at all without

assistance of Investigating Officer. Further, screen shots

of recovery of bit coins pertaining to mahazars dated

08.01.2021 and 22.01.2021 do not tally with each other. - 16 - The whatsapp messages disclose that the group was

created pertaining to seizure of bit coins and the message

was clear there. Even statement of Robin Khandelwal

under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. discloses that as to how the

mischief was played by the Investigating Officers. The

whatsapp messages also disclose regarding recovery of

the bit coins but now a different case has been put

forward as if no bit coins were recovered. Even email

discloses that though the accused-Sri Krishna was in

police custody, he was capable of sending email to his

friend disclosing about his comfortness and providing him

all the facilities. This act clearly disclose that the

petitioners instead of investigating the crime have used

accused-Robin Khandelwal and accused-Sri Krishna alias

Sriki to have unlawful gain for transfer of bit coins and

subsequently, they were found to be missing. The conduct

of the petitioners clearly discloses that they played with

the accused for recovery of bit coins and material

evidence, but subsequently they destroyed the evidence. - 17 - 17. As regards petitioner/accused No.5- Shridhar K.

Pujar, he was already declared as proclaimed offender by

the concerned Court on a request made by the concerned

Investigating Officer. When the petitioner was already

declared as proclaimed offender, question of he seeking

anticipatory bail does not arise at all. Apart from that it is

further alleged that another case of attempt is also

booked against him in the Vidhana Soudha Police Station

when there was an attempt to serve notice on him. The

petitioners are Police Officers holding High Posts and

possibility of they tampering the evidence cannot be

ruled-out as there is already allegations of tampering the

material evidence. 18. The learned Senior Counsels placed reliance on

decision reported in 2018 SC OnLine Kar 354

( SRI.P.HOMBALE GOWDA vs. STATE OF KARNATAKA in Crl.P.No.57/2018 & connected cases). But, it is

pertaining to seizure of demonetization notes and there

was an issue of entrustment. Hence, the said principles

cannot be made applicable to the case in hand. The - 18 - learned Senior Counsels further placed reliance on a

decision reported in 2020 SCC OnLine 1427 ( T.M. SANNA

KOTRAIAH vs. STATE OF KARNATAKA ), but the facts &

circumstances are entirely different and this is regarding

misappropriation of laptops. But in the instant case, the

entire case is based on cyber offence and siphoning bit

coins and allowing the accused persons in different crimes

under the investigation undertaken by the petitioners to

siphon of the bit coins and to hack the authorised sites.

Hence, the principles enunciated in the above cited

decision will not come to the aid of the petitioner in any

way. 19. The learned Senior Counsels further place

reliance on decision reported in (2011) 1 SCC 694

( SIDDHARAM SATLINGAPPA MHETRE vs. STATE OF

MAHARASHTRA AND OTHERS ) wherein the role of

protection of right of personal liberty was considered,

with reference to Sections 438 , 437 and 439 of Cr.P.C. But

the facts & circumstances are entirely different and

considering the fact that petitioners are the Police Officers - 19 - much expectations are regarding investigation, but if they

themselves involved in illegal activities, then the entire

faith in the system is bound to collapse. In this context,

the learned Special Public Prosecutor has placed reliance

on decision of the Apex Court reported in 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 240 ( STATE OF JHARKHAND vs. SANDEEP

KUMAR ). In the said decision , the Hon'ble Apex Court in

para No.10 has observed as under: - 20 - 20. In the instant case also there are serious

allegations against the Police Officers and if they are

granted anticipatory bail, there is every possibility of they

tampering the prosecution witnesses. The records prima

facie establish that they have attempted to destruct the

evidence available and assisted the accused in the custody

during the investigation of the crimes to have unlawful

gain. Hence, in view of the principles enunciated in the

above cited decision question of petitioner seeking

anticipatory bail does not arise at all, as their custodial

interrogation is essential. 21. The learned Special Public Prosecutor further

placed decision reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 282

( SRIKANT UPADHYAY AND OTHERS vs. STATE OF BIHAR

AND ANOTHER ), wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court has

again had an occasion to consider the anticipatory bail of a

person against whom proclamation has been issued. This

issue is elaborately dealt by the Hon'ble Apex Court and

held that proclaiming offender does not have any right to

seek anticipatory bail. This decision is based on the - 21 - decision of the Apex Court in the case Lavesh vs. State

(NCT of Delhi ) reported in (2012) 8 SCC 730. Hence, the

conduct of the petitioner/Shridhar K Pujar discloses that

he is not only proclaimed offender, but against him the

crime for offence under Section 307 IPC is also now

registered, as it is alleged that when there was an attempt

to serve notice on him in this case, he attempted on

serving officer. 22. Looking to the above facts and circumstances

and in view of the above cited decisions, question of

admitting the petitioners/accused Nos. 3 & 5 on

anticipatory bail does not arise at all. The petitioners being

the Police Officers holding high position, there are higher

chances of manipulating the records as well as destruction

of the evidence, as there is already an allegation of

attempt of destruction of the evidence. Hence, looking to

the facts and circumstances, both the petitions being

devoid of any merits do not survive for consideration and

need to be rejected. Accordingly, I proceed to pass the

following: