1. The petitioner has filed the present application for grant of interim
 bail for period of 30 days in FIR No. 39/2021 dated 07.02.2021 registered at
 Police Station Civil Lines for offences under Section 420 IPC. 2. The facts in brief leading to the instant petitions are as follows:- 3. After preliminary enquiries, one Kapil Kumar Rajoria, a student of
12th Standard stated that he made friends with petitioner Manvendra Singh,
who allegedly lured him with a sum Rs.1,000/- if he owned a bank account
and operated a phone number under a fictitious name and address. It is
stated that Kapil Kumar Rajoria opened a bank account accordingly and the
ATM card cheque book was with Manvendra Singh. i. It is stated that Kapil Kumar Rajoria was arrested from
 Anandpuri, Mathura, U.P. and was remanded to Police custody
 for two days. The involvement of other accused was revealed to
 the Police. ii. Based on revelations, Sajid (petitioner in BAIL APPLN. 3877/2021) was interrogated, he stated that he is a taxi driver
 and had made friends with Waris (petitioner in BAIL APPLN. 2753/2021), who allegedly enticed him to open a fake bank
 account with a sum Rs.2,000/- if he owned a bank account and
 operated a phone number under a fictitious name and address.
 Accordingly, Sajid opened numerous bank accounts with
 HDFC bank, ICICI bank, IDBI bank, IPO Bank, Fincare Small
 Finance Bank. Sajid further allegedly disclosed that before
 depositing money in the abovementioned accounts, Waris
 would call him and inform him. On checking the statements of
 these bank accounts, it was noticed that on 07.02.2021 a
 payment of Rs.20,000/- was deposited by Waris into Sajid's
 Indian Post Payments Bank account. Petitioner/Sajid was
 arrested on 11.02.2021. iii. Further joint enquiries by the Cyber Cell and the Police, got
 them in contact with the Manvendra Singh (petitioner in BAIL
 APPLN. 2831/2021), who stated that he was preparing for a
 government job and had made friends with Waris who allegedly
 lured him to commit online frauds and told him that online bank
 accounts with fictitious addresses had already been opened and
 the stage was set to dupe people without any detection. Waris
 allegedly told him that he would be paid Rs.5,000/- per
 transaction for each account. Petitioner/Manvendra Singh was
 arrested on 11.02.2021. iv. After this, on 13.02.2021, the three accused persons, namely,
 Kapil Kumar Rajoria, Sajid, and Manvendra Singh were
 produced before the learned Magistrate, who remanded them to
 14 days' judicial custody. v. During the custodial interrogation of the accused/Waris, he
 allegedly disclosed that he was working as a private school
 teacher and during this time he was introduced to the
 petitioner/Moveen, R/o Village-Bheelamka, Tehsil-Deeg,
 Bharatpur, Rajasthan; who lured him to commit online frauds
 and asked him to open bank accounts under false identities and
 addresses. He allegedly disclosed that he worked him for about
 six months and used to get a 20 per cent profit of the defrauded
 amounts. The petitioner was arrested on 16.02.2021.
 vi. During investigation, details of the bank accounts which were
 being operated by the accused/petitioners herein was extracted
 and the notices under Section 91 CrPC were issued to bank
 officials to furnish statements of these fictitious accounts.
 vii. The mobile numbers used by the accused/petitioners were
 inquired into and cellular companies were contacted to submit
 the Call Detail Records of the petitioners. The CDRs reveal that
 the petitioners were in continuous communication with each
 other. 4. Investigation has been completed and chargesheet was filed on
15.03.2021. In the chargesheet, Section 467 , 468 , 471 , 201 , 34 IPC and Section 66D of the Information & Technology Act, 2000 were added. 5. The bail applications of the petitioner were dismissed by a common
order dated 05.07.2021 passed by the learned Trial Court stating that the
petitioner is accused of embezzlement and used clever devices to cheat
many innocent persons on the internet, the transactions of which were still BAIL APPLN. 2588/2021 Page 4 of 8 being investigated by the Cyber Cell/IT Department and this was the first
time that they were caught. 6. Heard Mr.Nikunj Verma, learned counsel for the petitioner, Mr.Amit
Chadha, learned APP for the State and Mr.Vikas Pahwa, learned Senior
Advocate for the complainant. 7. Learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the chargesheet and
the supplementary chargesheet both stand filed. The petitioner has been in
custody for 10 months. He contends that the nature of evidence against the
petitioner is documentary in nature which would not require the custodial
presence of the petitioner. It is contended that this is the offence has been
committed first time by the petitioner and he does not have any criminal
antecedents. He submits that although the petitioner is an adult, he is in the
prime of his youth and has a good future ahead. Being incarcerated as
undertrial would deprive him of being gainfully employed. It was submitted
that there is no substantial evidence against the petitioner apart from the
disclosure statements of the other co-accused. It was lastly submitted that
there are over 15 witnesses which are slated to be examined in the trial and
given the ongoing pandemic situation, the trial may not commence any time
soon. Therefore, the petitioners should be released on bail. 8. Per contra, Mr. Amit Chadha, learned APP vehemently opposes the
bail application of the petitioner stating that the acts of which the petitioner
has been charged with was executed in a very organized way. He submits
that the petitioner created bank accounts giving false details in order to not
get caught and purchased SIM cards in fictitious names which were used to
defraud and cheat gullible people who sold and purchased goods from the
internet. It is further submitted by him that that SIM cards were obtained by BAIL APPLN. 2588/2021 Page 5 of 8 petitioner by giving fake IDs and further the charge of forgery was also
made out against them. He submitted that the charge of forgery prescribes a
punishment of 10 years extending upto life imprisonment, and, therefore,
bail ought not to granted to the petitioner at this stage. 9. Mr. Amit Chadha, learned APP, submitted that the Call Detail
Records shows that the petitioner was in touch with the other co-accused
frequently and that there were many bank transactions amongst them that
were observed during investigation. He fairly conceded that the petitioner
did not have any criminal antecedents but contended that the petitioner had
not just defrauded the present complainant but many other persons and the
same was being investigated into by the authorities. He submitted that if the
petitioner is released on bail, he is likely to tamper with evidence and will
abscond from the trial. He states that on seeing the bank statements, so far
the accused have cheated people of a total sum of Rs.7,00,000/-. 10. Mr. Vikas Pahwa, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the
complainant, adopted the submissions made by the learned APP. He
additionally submitted that this type of an online fraud has become
widespread in the North of India whereby many innocent people have been
cheated. He submitted that this Court should not exercise its discretion in
granting bail to the accused as it would send a deterrent message to other
persons engaging in similar activities. Mr.Pahwa expressed a concern that
since the petitioners are residing at different places, there is a likelihood of
their fleeing from justice. 11. The parameters to consider for grant of bail have been consistently
enunciated by the Apex Court in Ram Govind Upadhyay v. Sudarshan Singh BAIL APPLN. 2588/2021 Page 6 of 8 & Ors. , 2002 ( 3) SCC 598 and Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v. Ashis Chatterjee &
Anr. 2010 (14) SCC 496 are as follows:- 12. The Chargesheet has been filed. The supplementary Chargesheet has
also been filed. The petitioners have been in judicial custody for 10 months.
This Court is aware that this kind of online cheating and fraud has become
rampant in most parts of the country. Gravity or seriousness of the
allegations alone cannot be a ground to deny bail to the accused if the facts
and circumstances of the case entitles the accused to be released on bail. The
investigation has been completed and the chargesheet has been filed before
the learned Trial Court. The evidence are primarily documentary in nature.
The petitioner is in no position to tamper with evidence which is in custody
of the Police and takings into account his social status, the chances of the
petitioner to threaten the witnesses are remote. This Court, therefore, is of
the opinion that no useful purpose will be served by further keeping the
petitioners in custody. Therefore, this Court is inclined to grant interim bail
to the petitioner for a period of 30 days on the following conditions:- 13. The petition is disposed of with the above observations along with the
pending application(s), if any. 14. A copy of this order shall be communicated to the concerned Jail
Superintendent and the SHO Police Station-Deeg, Bharatpur, Rajasthan. SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J
DECEMBER 13, 2021/hsk BAIL APPLN. 2588/2021 Page 8 of 8