(BY SRI. ARAVIND KAMAT, A.S.G.,

 SRI. MADHUKAR DESHPANDE, SENIOR PANEL COUNSEL,

 SRI. ZOHEB HUSSAIN, SPECIAL COUNSEL)

 THIS WRIT PETITION IS FILED UNDER ARTICLES 226 AND 227 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA READ WITH
SECTION 528 OF THE B.N.S.S., PRAYING TO DECLARE THAT
THE ARREST OF THE ACCUSED NO.1 PURSUANT TO THE
ISSUANCE OF THE GROUNDS OF ARREST (ANNEXURE-G) MADE
ON 23.08.2025 ARISING OUT OF ECIR/BGZO/19/2025
REGISTERED BY THE RESPONDENT HEREIN FROM GANGTOK,
SIKKIM AS BEING WITHOUT JURISDICTION, ILLEGAL,
ARBITRARY, VIOLATIVE OF THE ACCUSED NO.1's
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS GUARANTEED UNDER ARTICLES 19 AND 21 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA, ETC. THIS WRIT PETITION HAVING BEEN HEARD AND
RESERVED FOR ORDERS ON 13.10.2025 AND COMING ON FOR
PRONOUNCEMENT OF ORDERS THIS DAY, THE COURT
PRONOUNCED THE FOLLOWING: 3. The grounds of arrest to arrest Mr. K.C. Veerendra

(husband of the petitioner) under Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002

reads as under: Chargesheet Contents: When the accused were questioned, it was found that
the accused were conducting cricket betting and
gambling on behalf of K.C. Virendra @ Pappy, son of
Late Channabasappa, Resident of Challakere Town near
Veerabhadraswamy Temple, and take money from the
public on his behalf. 2.3.FIR No.435/2016 dated 29.10.2016 registered at
 Challakere Police Station, Chitradurga District
 Acts invoked: IPC 1860 u/s [420], Karnataka Police Act,
 1963 u/s 78(3) Accused: registered at Challakere Police Station, Chitradurga
 District, on 29.10.2016 at 6.30 PM, the police received a
 certain information from an informant that the accused
 persons were cheating the innocent public by betting
 money on the India-New Zealand international cricket
 tournament on the 5th cross of S.R. Road, Challakere
 Town, Gandhinagar, in front of Mallikarjuna Medical
 Shop. On the basis of the information received, the
 police informed the Hon'ble S.P. regarding the India-
 New Zealand international cricket tournament, and
 voluntarily filed a case on behalf of the government at
 6:40 PM to conduct a raid and subsequently arrested the
 said accused persons who were involved in the cricket
 betting. Chargesheet Contents: 3. That based on the abovementioned FIR, the Directorate
 of Enforcement recorded an ECIR bearing
 No.ECIR/BGZO/19/2025 after preliminary
 inquiry/investigations. 4. During the course of investigation, it has been gathered
 from various sources that you are a habitual offender
 involved in multiple frauds involving various illegal
 betting applications and casinos. 5. Summary of Fraudulent Activities committed by Shri K C
 Veerendra

 5.1. Illegal Online Betting and Gambling: 6 Outcome of search proceedings: - customers and explain about the online betting app.
 Thereafter, they started betting through king567
 application and the payments were processed through
 my payment gateway company. King567 application was
 controlled by both Mr K C Veerendra alias Pappy and Mr
 Appu and they are the beneficial owners of this
 application. 6.3.He further stated that the Vehicle No. KA45N003 was
 funded by me through M/s Simtech IT Solutions Pvt Ltd.
 This was facilitated at the request of Mr. K C Veerendra.
 Neha Tandon also confirmed during course of her
 statement recorded during search that she draws salary
 as a Director of M/s Simtech IT Solutions but Gulshan
 Khattar was controlling the affairs. Documents seized
 from Gulshan Khattar's car on day of search further
 corroborates the fact that he is involved in arranging
 mule accounts for the said layering of funds. Statement
 of Mr Khatter clearly establishes that
 Mr K C Veerendra is not only generating PoC through
 online gaming websites but also laundering the PoC with
 the help of entities controlled by Mr Khattar.
6.4.During course of search proceedings, Nobel Samson
 Ramani stated that he incorporated Instape Technologies
 Pvt. Ltd. in August 2022 particularly for salary
 disbursement services for corporate firms employing
 contractual staff all constituting e-commerce. The
 business operations of both companies commenced only
 in April 2023, when three individuals--Mr. Stephen, Mr.
 Raju and Mr. Ganesh of JOYPAY approached him, stating
 that they were engaged in online retail and e-commerce
 activities and required support for payment collection and
 disbursement services. The above said JOYPAY is owned - 13 - by one Sh. KC Veerendra native of Chitradurga. He is into
 business of casinos and online gaming gambling/betting
 who runs the said business all over the world including
 India. 6.5.He stated that K C Veerendra and his family members
 were controlling JOYPAY and they asked us to carry on
 the disbursement of the funds so that funds so disbursed
 may be layered and source of funds and its end is not
 ascertained. We agreed to provide payment disbursement
 services, since such services only require a Nodal Account
 or a Technical Service Provider (TSP) account and they
 agreed to pay hefty commission for that. Furthermore,
 that Abhijith Nagarajappa Sajjan, Mr. Ganesh, and
 pappy are all originally from Chitradurga, Karnataka.
 Statement of Mr Ramani also establishes that Mr K C
 Veerendra and his family members had generated PoC
 and layered and laundered the same through the entities
 controlled by Mr Ramani. 6.6.During the course of search proceedings,
 Shri Sandeep Mehta stated that he was introduced to K C
 Veerendra through one Suraj P and that he used to book
 tickets for K C Veerendra, along with his associate
 Mr Arjun N., Mr. Harshwardhan, Mr. Ajit Mitta.
 K.C. Veerendra has casino businesses in Goa (under the
 name Casino Pride, Puppy's Gold, Ocean Seven and
 Casino River) and in Srilanka (Puppy's Merino Casino) and
 has many other firms like Rathna Gaming, Rathna
 Solutions, Puppy's Tours & Travels etc. Apart from this,
 Mr. KC Veerendra is also running his online gaming
 business and back office of casinos (in India and
 Sri Lanka) in Dubai, UAE, however, Mr. Prithvi Nagaraju
 (+971527589567) is the suitable person to provide the - 14 - exact details he the only person who can provide the
 exact details of his Dubai business. 6.7.He further stated that initially Mr. KC Veerendra used to
 pay through bank account, however, somewhere in 2022-
 23, when his Kavitha Tours and Travels, Karnataka Bank
 account was freezed by the bank, then, K C Veerendra
 started to pay me in cash mode. On being asked, I state
 that the associates of Mr. KC Veerendra namely
 Manjunath (Mob - 9845122799) and Siddharth (Mob -
 9980453313) used to deposit the cash from Challakere,
 Chitradurga, Karnataka in Kavitha Tours & Travels bank
 account. Manjunath is the relative of KC Veerendra and
 Mr. Siddhartha is the assistant of Mr. KC Veerendra. He
 stated that his firms' Karnataka Bank account was freezed
 due to payments received from KC Veerendra's Dubai
 based entities in the garb of ticket payments. To his
 understanding, these payments were the proceeds
 generated through online gaming and betting. Further the
 bank account of another firm "Tripjack" was also freezed
 by Police as I further transferred the funds to them
 towards payment. 6.8.He further stated that Mr. KC Veerendra used to pay him
 in cash and the said cash was deposited from Challakere,
 Chitradurga, Karnataka. That, after depositing the cash in
 his firm's bank account, KCV's men used to send the
 image of the deposit slip in the said WhatsApp group 'KCV
 Flights & Hotel Booki'. He also stated that Mr. KC
 Veerendra has his online gaming and betting business
 based in Dubai which has more than 100 employees
 employed for this purpose. 6.9. He stated that he is aware of the name of Kings567 and
 gamexch567 as these were the betting app of KC - 15 - Veerendra used for online gaming and betting. He heard
 of these names either Mr. Arjun or Mr. Prithvi used these
 terms on mobile conversation in Puppy's Tours & Travels'
 office in Goa. 6.10 During the course of search proceedings, Shri Anil
 Gowda, business partner of KC Veerendra stated that an
 email from [email protected] was also retrieved
 from his phone which was related to a consultancy fee
 paid to explore the possibility of getting a global gaming
 license paid by the Ratna Group of Shri K C Veerendra in
 2021.He stated that he took a proposal with quotation on
 behalf of Shri KC Veerendra for development of casino
 website to obtain the license from International Gaming
 Authorities. M/s Mirax Managemcnt Ltd Bilize is a Europe
 Based technology development company and the
 quotation given by M/s Mirax Management Ltd Bilize was
 not considered and the said proposal was dropped by the
 client. 6.11 On being shown multiple conversations with a
 particular email id [email protected] , he stated
 that Ezugi is the gaming technology provider based in
 Europe. This entity provides live game APIs over internet
 to the users across the world including India. Online
 Betting Apps King567, Raja567 are developed by Ezugi
 and hosted in the Internet by Ezugi. King567/Raja567 and
 such apps controlled by Shri KC Veerendra target
 customers predominantly in India, Sri Lanka and various
 other parts of the world. King567, Rajas67 host Indian
 oriented games such as Andar Bahar, Teenpatti etc.
 People can bet on these apps over Internet. The betting - 16 - amounts are collected through various payment
 gateways. Shri KC Veerendra entered into this online
 betting app field in the year 2021- 22.
6.12 Shri Gulshan Kattar, who is the owner of Fonepaisa
 payment gateway introduced Ezugi based platforms to
 Shri K C Veerendra and his brother, Shri Tippeswamy.
 Online betting apps King567, Raja567 etc. were hosted by
 Ezugi, the payment gateways to these betting apps were
 provided by Shri Gulshan Kattar. Reports of the same
 platforms are received through Email from the Ezugi to
 whichever Email ID provided by Shri KC Veerendra & Shri
 Thippeswamy. Reports of the same platforms are received
 through Email from the Ezugi to whichever Email ID
 provided by Shri KC Veerendra &
 Shri Thippeswamy. He stated that Gulshan Kattar used to
 interact with the Ezugi for providing the platform to
 betting apps King567 & Raja567. 6.13 On being shown the printouts of the Emails
 generated from the Email ID pertain to King567, Rajas67
 online betting, he stated that as far as he knows these
 online betting is controlled by Shri KC Veerendra in
 association with other family members. Statistics details
 contains Net Gaming Revene (NGR), Total Stake, Unique
 players, withdrawals etc., The average NGR per month
 used to be 20-25 crore per month which was received
 through the payment gateways devised by Gulshan
 Khattar. This amount is routed and layered by Shri
 Gulshan Kattar and paid to Shri KC Veerendra & Shri
 Tippeswamy predominantly in cash in India & abroad.
 Exact details of the same has to be told by Shri Gulshan
 Kattar only, who is a resident of RT Nagar, Bangalore and
 business associate of Thippeswamy. He provided the - 17 - products and payment gateways to the betting apps
 King567 & Raja567. 6.14 The revenue from the online betting is divided
 amongst Shri KC Veerendra, Shri Tippeswamy and other
 family members who are involved in the betting business.
 The statistics reports pertaining to the online betting apps
 are received by Shri Tippeswamy and Amulya. Online
 betting business was controlled on a day to day basis by
 Shri Tippeswamy, Amulya, Veerendra and Abhijeet. The
 net income received by Shri KC Veerendra after all the
 division of profits and expenses is around Rs. 10 crores.
6.15 He stated that Shri Thippeswamy is the brother of
 K C Veerendra. He manages the online betting business
 from Dubai, UAE. He resides in a villa at Shobha
 Heartland, Dubai and also has other properties in Dubai.
 Online betting business in India is promoted through the
 employees of casinos owned by Shri K C Veerendra. For
 the support activities., call centre, customer services are
 undertaken from the business entities located in Dubai.
 These entities are normally incorporated in the name of
 employees of these business entities in Dubai. Names of
 these entities are Diamond Softtech, Prime9 technologies,
 Mindscope call centre services etc., Overseeing of the
 online betting finance department is undertaken by
 Amulya Suresha who is also the niece of Shri KC
 Veerendra. 6.16 Several statements and evidences unearthed
 during the search also revealed proceeds of crime being
 laundered through various routes and also being sent
 outside the country. During the course of search - 18 - proceedings, Anil Gowda stated that K C Veerendra has
 two casinos abroad in Sri Lanka and Nepal. Anil Gowda
 stated that the casino in Sri Lanka is rebranded as
 Puppy's Marina and operated by Shri K C Veerendra since
 January, 2024. The said casino is actually owned by an
 entity namely RHE, Sri Lankan entity. The profit earned
 from the said casino is shared between K C Veerendra,
 Thippeswamy, and Anil Gowda among others. That in
 respect of legal services provided by Krsnaa Legal in
 India, Anil Gowda receives the remuneration in cash. In
 respect of the legal services provided by his firm abroad,
 he receives the amount in his Bank account held at
 Meshreq Neo Biz Bank. Further, he also said that the
 brother K C Thippeswamy of the accused is operating 3
 business entities from Dubai viz. Diamond Softech, TRS
 Technologies, Prime9 Technologies and that these entities
 are related to the call centre services and gaming
 business of K C Veerendra. 6.17 When asked about ASVSA Enterprises LLP, he
 stated that he was a partner till 2022 where after he
 relinquished all his shares to Mr Suraj in 2022. Presently,
 it is owned by Mr Tippeswamy, Veerendra, Suraj and
 Prithvi. Consultancy fee of approx. Euro 25,000 was paid
 for exploring gaming business opportunities across the
 world. 6.18 He stated that on his advise, during the year 2021,
 KC Veerendra opened KC Boston Technologies,
 Roversoftech and Sky High Software Solutions Limited in
 Cyprus and Curacao. He further said that the beneficial
 owners of these companies are K C Thippeswamy, Prihvi
 and Suraj. The following "Business Plan" for a Cuarcao
 based company for laundering funds by K C Veerendra - 19 - and his associates, was retrieved from the phone of Latha
 Yadav, "care-taker" of K C Veerendra's Bangalore
 premise, during the course of search proceedings: - Sandeep Mehta stated that till the freezing of such
 accounts by police, he used to receive funds diverted from
 online betting collections in his bank account. Thereafter,
 K C Veerendra would deposit cash slips in his bank
 account for providing ticket booking services.
6.20 As stated by Gulshan Khattar, Nobel Samson
 Ramani and Anil Gowda, more than thousands of crores of
 rupees are being collected, in a very short span of time, - 20 - from such illicit online betting websites and laundered by
 K C Veerendra and his associates in this way. Therefore, it
 can be inferred proceeds of crime generated are being
 laundered successfully by K C Veerendra with the help of
 his associates both within and outside India.
6.21 Further, during the course of search proceedings,
 an amount of above Rs. 10 crores in cash and Gold
 Jewellery worth Rs. 5.5 crores, Silver around 10 kgs,
 along with four vehicles was seized under PMLA,2002.
 Further, 17 bank accounts and 2 lockers were freezed.
 Further, several property documents were also seized
 from the premise of K C Nagaraj and Pruthvi N Raj. From
 the above discussion and information, I have reason to
 believe that Mr K C Veerendra is involved in money
 laundering activities as defined u/s 3 of PMLA and as
 substantial amount of PoC has been generated and
 laundered which is yet to be traced. As detailed above,
 hundreds of crores of PoC has been laundered and
 therefore to trace the remaining PoC, custodial
 interrogation of Mr K C Veerendra is needed.
6.22 During the course of search being carried out at
 the hotel premise of K C Veerendra while he was on a
 business visit to Sikkim along with Arjun, he stated that
 there is no registered entity in his name in Dubai or
 abroad. But there is a call centre in the name of my elder
 brother K.C. Thippeswamy, but he does not know of the
 operations of the said company nor does he receive any
 revenue from it. When asked specifically about his casino
 operations abroad, he denied running any such casinos in
 foreign countries. 6.23 It is therefore inferred that even though K C
 Veerendra with the help of his associates, is actively - 21 - involved in operations of online betting websites by luring
 public, especially those who visit his casinos, and
 laundering the proceeds so generated by way of gold
 purchase, real estate, casinos, outward remittances,
 purchase of assets abroad, and even concealed in the
 form of cash. As he has out rightly denied any such
 accusation and shown wilful non-cooperation in
 investigation, it is essential to take him into custody to
 determine quantum of proceeds generated and to trace
 the same. 7 The evidences/documents collected so far indicate that
 you are still in possession of Proceed of Crime
 generated through your illegal activities in various
 cases as mentioned above. You have laundered the
 POC generated in form of gold, cash and
 cryptocurrencies. This demonstrates your active
 involvement in the comprehensive money laundering
 scheme, encompassing the processes of layering,
 placement and integration of proceeds of crime. 8 It is also pertinent to mention that you have been
 arrested by Central Bureau of Investigation in relation
 to investigation against cricket betting, illegal casino
 and other illicit activities. You are a habitual offender
 and a flight risk. You are using multiple residences and
 alias to evade different law enforcement agencies. It is
 very difficult to trace you under normal circumstances.
 This demonstrates an attempt to evade legal
 proceedings and a non-cooperative attitude. 9 Further, during course of your statement recorded
 under section 17 of PMLA you are not providing clear - 22 - information and answers to the questions posed to
 him. You are evasive in your replies. Such deliberate
 non-cooperation has hindered the investigation by
 preventing disclosure of crucial facts and information. 10 You are evading the investigation and trying to derail
 the same by not providing the complete and correct
 facts which are being asked from you during
 investigation. The same necessitates the need of yours
 interrogation on certain crucial aspects of the
 investigation. 11 Further, there is every possibility, if you are not
 arrested, there is every likelihood that you may
 tamper with incriminating evidence available against
 you and which are in his exclusive knowledge. Further,
 there is also every possibility that you may attempt to
 dissuade any person who is acquainted with the facts
 from disclosing the same to the investigative agency,
 Consequently, invoking the provisions of Section 19 of
 PMLA, 2002 has become necessary to ensure a
 thorough and conclusive investigation. 12 That on the basis of investigation carried out and
 evidences collected so far & material in possession of
 this Directorate, it is revealed that you are guilty of
 offence of money-laundering as defined under Section
 3 of PMLA 2002 and punishable under Section 4 of
 PMLA 2002. You have directly attempted to indulge,
 knowingly assist, is knowingly a party and is actually
 involved in process or activity connected with the
 proceeds of crime and projecting it as untainted
 property. - 23 - 13 In view of the material available on record and
 circumstances stated above, you are in possession of
 Proceed of Crime generated through your illegal
 activities in various cases as mentioned above. You
 have laundered the POC generated in form of gold,
 cash and cryptocurrencies. You have directly
 attempted to indulge, knowingly assist, is knowingly a
 party and is actually involved in process or activity
 connected with the proceeds of crime and projecting it
 as untainted property and is guilty of an offence of
 money laundering. 14 You have generated POC by operating illegall cricket
 betting and online gaming sites. Further you have
 laundered the PoC so generated through the entities of
 your associates like Ramani, Khattar, Anil Gowda,
 Sandeep Mehta. Further you have purchased various
 movable and immovable properties from the POC. You
 have also laundered PoC through your casinos.
 Therefore, you are guilty of offense of Money
 Laundering. 15 That it is most respectfully submitted that, the
 custodial interrogation, which is qualitatively more
 elicitation-oriented, of yours is absolutely necessary in
 this case as there are many aspects which need to be
 investigated and you have been totally non
 cooperative, evasive and misleading during the
 investigation conducted till now. Interrogation is
 required to unearth the trail of funds, for corroboration
 and confrontation with other persons involved in the
 case. - 24 - 16 Therefore, I have reasons to believe that you are
 guilty of the offence of money-laundering as defined
 under Section 3 of PMLA, 2002 which is punishable
 under Section 4 of the Act ibid as you have been found
 to be knowingly involved in the process and activities
 connected with the proceeds of crime including its
 acquisition, possession, concealment, use and
 projecting and claiming the same as untainted
 property. Therefore, you are arrested under Section
 19 of PMLA, 2002 on 23.08.2025 at 07:26 hours. I have been read over and informed of the grounds of
 arrest. Sd/- SIGNATURE OF THE ARRESTEE

 I have been intimated about my rights as laid down by
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of D.K.
 Basu V.s. State of West Bengal with regard to the rights
 of arrestee person. Smt Chaitra, w/o Shri K.C. Veerendra
 has been informed about his arrest at phone number
 9108411003 at 07:26 hours (time) on 23.08.2025. Sd/- SIGNATURE OF THE ARRESTEE

 Sd/- INVESTIGATING/ARRESTING OFFICER

 Witness:" Chitradurga District, on 02.03.2011 at 05.15 pm,
 at the residence of one of the accused K.C.
 Veerendra in Veerabhadraswamy Layout,
 Challakere Town, Veerendra along with the other
 accused Nagaraja was watching the live broadcast
 of the World Cup Cricket match between England
 and Ireland on TV and were talking to bettors and
 customers through mobile phones. The accused
 persons were alleged to have been deceiving
 people by betting money on cricket and engaging
 in illegal gambling. Chargesheet Contents: Acts invoked: Information Technology Act 2000
u/s [66], IPC 1860 u/s [420], Karnataka Police
Act, 1963 u/s 79 , 80 , 78(3) Accused: - 29 - Chargesheet Contents: Fraud) is a Scheduled Offence as defined in terms
 of Section 2(1)(x) & (y) of the PMLA, 2002, ECIR
 dated 22.07.2025 has been recorded vide no.
 BGZO/19/2025. 4.3. As per the facts mentioned in 2022 bail
 rejection order, accused persons persuaded public
 to first play online cricket betting on satexch.com
 and then later once accused lost money, would
 further persuade them to try their luck at Goa - 32 - Casinos owned by K C Veerendra and Suraj from
 Davangere. 4.4. The said Suraj is co-partner with K C
 Veerendra in Asvsa Enterprises LLP along with his
 brother K C Thippeswamy, his nephew Pruthvi N
 Raj and Anil Gowda. The said company is found to
 have remitted funds abroad in name of
 professional services. 4.5. As per the information on public domain, it is
 noticed that there is a website by name and style
 https://puppysworld.com/ which hosts multiple
 casino businesses in Goa/Sri Lanka/Nepal by
 names - Casino Gold, Ocean 7, Casino pride,
 Casino Rivers and Big Daddy being in Goa, Casino
 Marina (in Sri Lanka), Casino Pride Nepal, and
 Casino Jewel (Georgia). The website of Casino
 Marina Sri Lanka revealed Marina888.comsports
 betting website of which K C Veerendra is handling
 operations as per his media posts. 4.6. Further social media posts of K C Veerendra
 were analysed and the same revealed that
 multiple comments on his posts accused him of
 running fraudulent online games, especially
 website in the name of King 567. Several
 accusations about youth committing suicide, being
 forced to leave their towns, against voting him in
 power due to him running these gaming and
 betting websites have emerged through - 33 - K C Veerendra's social media analysis. Screenshots
of some of the posts are as under Mr. Gulshan Khattar. They further stated that huge
 money was transferred to Dubai. 4.9. Another FIR No.978/2022 dated 19.12.2022
 registered by PS Cyber Crime, Cyberabad related
 to a cyber-scam in the guise of online gaming and
 betting using bogus websites. LEA findings
 revealed that Mr. Nitin Tandon and Mr. Naresh
 Tandon (father of Neha Tandon) in connivance of
 some unknown foreign nationals started various
 online gaming and betting websites viz.
 king567.com, lion567.com, cric247.co,
 fairplay1.co, india24bet.com, 24betting.com,
 hotsports.com, mint999.com and jeetodaily.com,
 through which they lure innocent general public
 into high winning profits. These websites are
 hosted and operated from abroad and the winners
 and losers are manipulated by the accused in such
 a manner to make innocent people believe they
 are winning initially to win their trust and get them
 to deposit more funds. 4.10. Search on ICJS portal revealed that there are
 two FIRs - FIR No. 1592/2024 dated 19.03.2024
 was registered by Cyber Crimes PS, Cyberabad,
 Telangana and FIR No. 218/2022 dated
 06.07.2022 was registered by Harohalli PS,
 Bengaluru South, registered against the said
 Fonepaisa company and its directors. 4.11. As per the FIR No. 1592/2024 dated
 19.03.2024 registered by Cyber Crimes PS,
 Cyberabad, Telangana, the complainant
 Mr. Motupalli Damodar Naveen Kumar, transferred - 36 - around Rs.11,50,000/- in different intervals from
 his ICICI bank account to FONEPAISA merchant
 for online gaming at INDIA24bet.com and
 KING567.com. He mentioned that he won few
 games and money was shown in his account in
 virtual, but when he requested for withdrawal,
 they have blocked him and didn't process his
 withdrawal requests. Further he realised that it is
 fraud and that he lost amount to FONEPAISA
 gateway, INDIA24bet.com and KING567.com
 sites. 4.12. As per the FIR 218/2022 dated 06.07.2022
 registered by Harohalli PS, Bengaluru South, the
 complainant got lured by the provocative
 advertisements about the Bettin Exchange
 company and accordingly registered on the app.
 While playing the game on the Bettin Exchange
 gaming application, it asked for payment.
 Accordingly, the complainant transferred
 Rs.30,000/- through UPI banking. It was alleged in
 the FIR that the money sent to Bettin Exchange
 gaming application was transferred through
 Fonepaisa company, which was using the said
 application to make illegal payments from the
 general public and was running online casinos.
 Further, the complainant mentioned that when he
 tried to withdraw his money from the said gaming
 app, the money was credited to the complainant's
 account through Feb Fashionz company and Light
 Speed Webso companies. Hence, the complainant
 alleges that the aforesaid gaming app is pooling
 amounts from public using the Fonepaisa company - 37 - and the aforesaid 3rd party companies and
 cheating the public. From the above mentioned FIRs, it is clear that Mr
 K C Veerendra is generating Proceeds of crime
 from the illegal cricket betting and online gaming
 apps and websites. 4.13. Further that as reported by FIU, KC
 Veerendra has earlier also used this modus
 operando to get vehicles funded by companies
 linked to his illicit activities. After his arrest in CBI
 case FIR RC26(A)/2016, it was reported that KC
 Veerendra has taken names in CBI probe, linking
 alleged hawala operators with his cricket betting,
 casino and other businesses. The said Simtech
 company had funded his new Mercedes GL 350
 TDI amounting to Rs.75 Lakhs bearing registration
 no. KA51MK0003. It can therefore be inferred that
 K C Veerendra is linked to and is a beneficiary of
 the said illicit proceeds generated from running
 these online betting websites, as Simtech has
 funded the vehicle detailed above. 4.14. Anil Gowda is partner with K C Veerendra in
 Asvsa Enterprises. It is noteworthy that a
 company names Diamond Softech of Abhijeet
 Sajjan is shown as a client for Krsnaa Advisory.
 Further that K C Veerendra and Gulshan Khattar
 are frequently in touch with this Dubai based
 Krsnaa Capital number of Anil Gowda. Mr Anil
 Gowda is partner in several companies, especially
 ABH Infrastructures which are registered in
 Bangalore at the same address. Further vehicle - 38 - bearing No. KA55P0003 of Rs. 1.1 crores purchase
 being used by K C Veerendra is found to be
 registered by ABH Infrastructures. Thus, it can be
 inferred that KC Veerendra is linked with and has
 received benefits of laundering the proceeds
 generated out of illicit betting and gambling
 activities. 4.15. One of the social media posts had provided
 numbers of the persons running the illegal website
 King567. One of them belonged to K C Veerendra
 and the other one "Appu My Son" number
 9900947399. This number belongs to Pruthvi N
 Raj. The registered address of Pruthvi N Raj is
 King Street, 5/6/7, Rathna Nilaya, Old Town
 Challekere. It appears that the said website is in
 the name of house of the said Pruthvi Raj. 4.16. Statement of one Nobel Ramani recorded
 before ED HYZO in relation to investigation with
 respect to the above mentioned FIR, revealed that
 he was providing payout services to the said illegal
 gaming websites King567 etc. through his
 companies Raiman Associates, Instape Tech etc.
 at the instance of one Mr. Abhijith Nagarajappa
 Sajjan., Ganesha Nageshappa, one Appu, is the
 son of the actual owner and that all these three
 belong to Chitradurga, Karnataka. That the contact
 numbers of the aforesaid persons - Abhijith
 Nagarajappa Sajjan, Ganesha Nageshappa, Raju
 and Pappu, available with him are
 +447746925530 (along with Indian number - 39 - 9886669511), +971543732499, +971563412567
 and +971527589567 respectively. 5. Addendum to ECIR Accordingly, based on above
 mentioned facts, competent authority approved the
 addendum to ECIR to include FIR No. 1592/2024
 dated 19.03.2024 registered by Cyber Crimes PS,
 Cyberabad, Telangana, and FIR 218/2022 dated
 06.07.2022 registered by Harohalli PS, Bengaluru
 South, 6. Outcome of search proceedings: - they started betting through king567 application
 and the payments were processed through my
 payment gateway company. King567 application
 was controlled by both Mr K C Veerendra alias
 Pappy and Mr Appu and they are the beneficial
 owners of this application. M/s Simtech IT Solutions Pvt Ltd. This was
 facilitated at the request of Mr. K C Veerendra.
 Neha Tandon also confirmed during course of her
 statement recorded during search that she draws
 salary as a Director of M/s Simtech IT Solutions
 but Gulshan Khattar was controlling the affairs.
 Documents seized from Gulshan Khattar's car on
 day of search further corroborates the fact that he
 is involved in arranging mule accounts for the said
 layering of funds. Statement of
 Mr Khatter clearly establishes that Mr K C
 Veerendra is not only generating PoC through
 online gaming websites but also laundering the
 PoC with the help of entities controlled by Mr
 Khattar. 6.4. During course of search proceedings, Nobel
 Samson Ramani stated that he incorporated
 Instape Technologies Pvt. Ltd. in August 2022
 particularly for salary disbursement services for
 corporate firms employing contractual staff all
 constituting e-commerce. The business operations
 of both companies commenced only in April 2023,
 when three individuals--Mr. Stephen, Mr. Raju and - 41 - Mr. Ganesh of JOYPAY approached him, stating
 that they were engaged in online retail and e-
 commerce activities and required support for
 payment collection and disbursement services. The
 above said JOYPAY is owned by one Sh. KC
 Veerendra native of Chitradurga. He is into
 business of casinos and online gaming
 gambling/betting who runs the said business all
 over the world including India. 6.5. He stated that K C Veerendra and his family
 members were controlling JOYPAY and they asked
 us to carry on the disbursement of the funds so
 that funds so disbursed may be layered and source
 of funds and its end is not ascertained. We agreed
 to provide payment disbursement services, since
 such services only require a Nodal Account or a
 Technical Service Provider (TSP) account and they
 agreed to pay hefty commission for that.
 Furthermore, that Abhijith Nagarajappa
 Sajjan, Mr. Ganesh, and pappy are all originally
 from Chitradurga, Karnataka. Statement of Mr
 Ramani also establishes that Mr K C Veerendra
 and his family members had generated PoC and
 layered and laundered the same through the
 entities controlled by Mr Ramani. 6.6. During the course of search proceedings,
 Shri Sandeep Mehta stated that he was introduced
 to K C Veerendra through one Suraj P and that he
 used to book tickets for K C Veerendra, along with
 his associate Mr Arjun N., Mr. Harshwardhan, Mr.
 Ajit Mitta. K.C. Veerendra has casino businesses in - 42 - Goa (under the name Casino Pride, Puppy's Gold,
 Ocean Seven and Casino River) and in Srilanka
 (Puppy's Merino Casino) and has many other firms
 like Rathna Gaming, Rathna Solutions, Puppy's
 Tours & Travels etc. Apart from this,
 Mr. KC Veerendra is also running his online gaming
 business and back office of casinos (in India and
 Sri Lanka) in Dubai, UAE, however,
 Mr. Prithvi Nagaraju (+971527589567) is the
 suitable person to provide the exact details he the
 only person who can provide the exact details of
 his Dubai business. 6.7. He further stated that initially Mr. KC
 Veerendra used to pay through bank account,
 however, somewhere in 2022-23, when his
 Kavitha Tours and Travels, Karnataka Bank
 account was freezed by the bank, then, K C
 Veerendra started to pay me in cash mode. On
 being asked, I state that the associates of Mr. KC
 Veerendra namely Manjunath (Mob - 9845122799)
 and Siddharth (Mob - 9980453313) used to
 deposit the cash from Challakere, Chitradurga,
 Karnataka in Kavitha Tours & Travels bank
 account. Manjunath is the relative of KC Veerendra
 and Mr. Siddhartha is the assistant of Mr. KC
 Veerendra. He stated that his firms' Karnataka
 Bank account was freezed due to payments
 received from KC Veerendra's Dubai based entities
 in the garb of ticket payments. To his
 understanding, these payments were the proceeds
 generated through online gaming and betting.
 Further the bank account of another firm - 43 - Therefore, it can be inferred proceeds of crime
 generated are being laundered successfully by
 K C Veerendra with the help of his associates both
 within and outside India. 6.21. Further, during the course of search
 proceedings, an amount of above Rs. 10 crores in
 cash and Gold Jewellery worth Rs. 5.5 crores,
 Silver around 10 kgs, along with four vehicles was
 seized under PMLA, 2002. Further, 17 bank
 accounts and 2 lockers were freezed. Further,
 several property documents were also seized from
 the premise of K C Nagaraj and Pruthvi N Raj.
 From the above discussion and information, I have
 reason to believe that Mr K C Veerendra is
 involved in money laundering activities as defined
 u/s 3 of PMLA and as substantial amount of PoC - 50 - has been generated and laundered which is yet to
 be traced. As detailed above, hundreds of crores of
 PoC has been laundered and therefore to trace the
 remaining PoC, custodial interrogation of Mr K C
 Veerendra is needed. 6.22. During the course of search being carried out
 at the hotel premise of K C Veerendra while he
 was on a business visit to Sikkim along with Arjun,
 he stated that there is no registered entity in his
 name in Dubai or abroad. But there is a call centre
 in the name of my elder brother
 K.C.Thippeswamy, but he does not know of the
 operations of the said company nor does he
 receive any revenue from it. When asked
 specifically about his casino operations abroad, he
 denied running any such casinos in foreign
 countries. 6.23. It is therefore inferred that even though K C
 Veerendra with the help of his associates, is
 actively involved in operations of online betting
 websites by luring public, especially those who
 visit his casinos, and laundering the proceeds so
 generated by way of gold purchase, real estate,
 casinos, outward remittances, purchase of assets
 abroad, and even concealed in the form of cash.
 As he has out rightly denied any such accusation
 and shown wilful non-cooperation in investigation,
 it is essential to take him into custody to
 determine quantum of proceeds generated and to
 trace the same." - 51 - 5. The case of the petitioner is that, when the ECIR

was registered and the grounds of arrest and reasons to believe

for invoking Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002 were supplied to the

petitioner, the same were initially done based on the

information that respondent had in relation to the following

FIRs: 6. It is submitted that the proceedings under the

aforementioned FIRs have been either quashed or the accused

have been acquitted. It is further submitted that the husband

of the petitioner was named only in FIR No.64/2011, wherein,

he has been acquitted and in FIR No.215/2022, his name has

been dropped from the chargesheet. 7. It is further submitted that, subsequently, by way

of addendum in reasons to believe for invoking Section 19 of

the PMLA, 2002, the authorities have mentioned the

proceedings in FIR No.1592/2024 registered by Cyber Crime

Police Station, Cyberabad and FIR No.218/2022 registered by - 52 - Harohalli Police Station, Ramanagara. It is further submitted

that, even in FIR No.1592/2024, the husband of the petitioner

was not named in the FIR and the case has been settled

between the parties. In case of FIR No.218/2022, it is

submitted that husband of the petitioner has not been named

in the FIR and a 'B' report has been filed by the investigating

agency stating that the matter appears to be a civil dispute to a

tune of Rs.30,000/- only. It is also submitted that, the

investigation done in the said case does not implicate the

husband of the petitioner in any manner whatsoever and that

there are no incriminating materials against him which is found

by the prosecution. Under the circumstances, it is submitted

that the authorities have no ground to register a case under the

provisions of the PMLA, 2002 against the husband of the

petitioner and arrest him. 8. Per contra, the respondent submits that all the

aforementioned FIRs have been registered pursuant to

allegation of cheating made against various persons and in

some cases against the husband of the petitioner himself. It is

submitted that preliminary enquiry revealed that the husband

of the petitioner is involved in fraudulent activities of illegal

online betting and gambling websites. It is submitted that, - 53 - online betting and gambling websites have been registered in

foreign countries and in India and run by different persons

having connections with the husband of the petitioner and he is

the main person controlling the same. The algorithms of the

betting apps are structured in a manner that initially a person

gambling on the website makes money and he is lured to make

larger investments and thereafter he loses money. It is

submitted that this is nothing but cheating which is a scheduled

offence under the PMLA, 2002 and the husband of the

petitioner is the recipient of the tainted money (proceeds of the

crime) earned through these online betting apps. 9. It is submitted that few individuals who have been

so cheated have lodged the complaints, based on which, FIRs

as mentioned above have been registered. It is submitted that

the said FIRs have been registered by private individuals only

in respect of the money that they have been individually

cheated. But investigation of the cases has revealed a larger

network of several individuals and companies of which the

husband of the petitioner is the kingpin and that it is a huge

racket and huge money is generated in the betting apps by

cheating several persons who play the same and the husband

of the petitioner herein is the recipient of the said tainted - 54 - money, which runs into several crores. It is submitted that the

ingredients described in the cases being investigated calls for

registering a case under the PMLA, 2002, and hence, an ECIR

has been registered against the husband of the petitioner and

he has been arrested in accordance with law. On the said

grounds, it is prayed that the petition may be dismissed. 10. The question that arises for consideration in the

instant petition is, whether there exists a predicate scheduled

offence as contemplated under the PMLA, 2002, which enables

the respondent to register an ECIR and whether there is

sufficient material in possession of the respondent which gives

him sufficient reason to believe that the husband of the

petitioner is guilty of an offence punishable under the PMLA,

2002, as contemplated under Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002,

because of which he has been arrested. 11. Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002 reads as under: laundering if such person is found to have
 directly or indirectly attempted to indulge or
 knowingly assisted or knowingly is a party or is
 actually involved in one or more of the
 following processes or activities connected with
 proceeds of crime, namely:- 12. Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA, 2002 defines

"proceeds of crime", which reads as follows: taken or held outside the country, then the property
equivalent in value held within the country or abroad; Explanation.-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
clarified that "proceeds of crime" include property not
only derived or obtained from the scheduled offence but
also any property which may directly or indirectly be
derived or obtained as a result of any criminal activity
relatable to the scheduled offence;" 13. Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002 reads as under: 14. Thus, existence of a scheduled offence (predicate

offence) is foundational for registration of an ECIR under the

PMLA, 2002. Without a scheduled offence, there can be no

proceeds of crime. The powers of the Enforcement Directorate

are derived from the predicate offence and it arises only if there

exists a scheduled offence and there are proceeds of crime

generated from that offence, and not otherwise. As per Section

19 of the PMLA, 2002, the proper officer must have reason to

believe, that is, he must form an independent opinion based on

the material in his possession that the person has been guilty

of the offence of money laundering ( Section 3 of the PMLA,

2002). Further, the said reasons must be recorded in writing

before the arrest and the grounds of arrest must be

communicated to the person arrested. 15. 'Reason to believe' means a belief that a reasonable

person, acting on the material available, would entertain a

belief that the person is guilty of the offence alleged and it

cannot be a mere arbitrary opinion. - 58 - 16. Thus, in the instant case, for the husband of the

petitioner to be arrested, there should have been material with

the respondent which shows that the husband of the petitioner

has directly or indirectly attempted to indulge or knowingly

assisted or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any

process or activity connected with the money derived from a

scheduled offence (proceeds of crime), including its

concealment, possession, acquisition, or use and projecting or

claiming it as untainted property in any manner whatsoever. 17. In the instant case, the FIRs mentioned in the

grounds of arrest, the reasons to believe for invoking Section

19 of the PMLA, 2002, mention the scheduled offences that are

relied upon by the respondent to proceed against the husband

of the petitioner. Of the seven proceedings, only FIR

No.218/2022 registered by the Harohalli Police under Sections

419 , 420 of IPC read with Section 66 of the Income Tax Act

alone is pending and rest of the cases have been closed in

favour of the accused therein or the husband of the petitioner. Under the said circumstances, the only predicate offence which

is alive is FIR No.218/2022. In the said case also, 'B' report

has been filed, but the same is yet to be accepted by the trial

Court. - 59 - 18. Thus, though the respondent has mentioned

existence of seven criminal proceedings against the husband of

the petitioner, six of them having been closed and those FIRs

cannot be a ground for proceeding against the husband of the

petitioner and arrest him. The respondent has to solely rely

upon FIR No.218/2022 registered by the Harohalli Police under Sections 419 , 420 of IPC read with Section 66 of the Income

Tax Act, as the offence under Sections 419 and 420 of the IPC

are scheduled offences. 19. The respondent has produced a copy of the

complaint filed in FIR No.218/2022, which reads as under:- evidence documents (online payment gateway page,
 payment processing and confirmation)
 • "fonePaisa Payment Solutions Private Limited'
 company legal documents - company registration
 certificate
 • "fonePaisa Payment Solutions Private Limited" company other documents" 20. The case of the petitioner is that no allegations are

made against the husband of the petitioner in the

aforementioned complaint and the FIR is not registered against

him. It is further contended that he is not involved with any of

the Companies or persons named in the aforementioned

complaint. It is also submitted that no incriminating material

has been found against him pursuant to the said case. It is

further submitted that the complaint pertains to only a sum of - 66 - Rs.30,000/- and the accused therein have worked out a

compromise with the complainant therein and the said case is

essentially a civil case and for that reason, the jurisdictional

police have filed a 'B' report. As the husband of the petitioner

has got nothing to do with the said FIR, it is submitted that the

respondent could not have filed an ECIR against him and

proceeded to arrest him. 21. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent

submits that the fraud that is alleged in the FIR is only a tip of

the iceberg and upon investigation, the authorities have

stumbled upon a huge racket which involves systematic

cheating of several persons by luring them to gamble on the

online betting apps by manipulating the algorithms. It is

submitted that the preliminary investigation has prima facie

proved that the husband of the petitioner controls the persons

running the said betting apps and they in fact work for him and

the husband of the petitioner is a direct beneficiary of the

fraudulent money generated through the said betting apps. It

is submitted that it is recorded in the grounds of arrest and it

constitutes the sufficient reason to satisfy 'reason to believe' as

contemplated in law to arrest the husband of the petitioner. It

is also submitted that though the complaint pertains to only a - 67 - sum of Rs.30,000/-, the 'proceeds of crime' as per Section

2(1)(u) of the PMLA, 2002 also includes property not only

derived or obtained from the scheduled offence, but also any

property which may directly or indirectly be derived or obtained

as a result of any criminal activity relatable to the scheduled

offence. On the said ground, it is contended that proceeds of

crime can be over and above what is mentioned in the present

FIR. 22. The attention of the Court is also drawn to the

object and the preamble of the PMLA, 2002 which reads as

under:- - 68 - 23. It is submitted that in a case like the one on hand,

usually complaint is given by very few persons, who are

cheated and FIR No.218/2022 is one such instance and the

investigation into the same has made the respondent discover

a large network of sophisticated criminal activity involving the

luring of several persons and cheating them and realising the

proceeds of crime which constitutes an offence under the

provisions of the PMLA, 2002. 24. It is further submitted that the contention of the

petitioner that the grounds of arrest and the reasons to believe

for invoking Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002 do not specify valid

grounds is erroneous. The attention of the Court is drawn to

the reasons recorded in Clauses 4.12 to 6.23 of the 'reasons to

believe' for invoking Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002. The same

is extracted along with the other grounds of arrest and reasons

to believe for invoking Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002 in

paragraph 4 supra. 25. Perusal of the same shows that the preliminary

investigation reveals involvement of the husband of the

petitioner in running of the alleged illegal betting apps and

being benefited through them, which requires a detailed - 69 - investigation. The material on hand discloses, cheating people

through betting apps and realising proceeds of crime through it

and that it requires custodial interrogation of the accused. Thus, in my opinion, the respondent had reason to believe to

arrest the husband of the petitioner under Section 19 of the

PMLA, 2002. 26. Thus, under the given facts and circumstances of

the case, it has to be considered that there exists a predicate

scheduled offence as contemplated under the PMLA, 2002 and

there is sufficient material in possession of the respondent

which gives sufficient reason to believe that the husband of the

petitioner is guilty of an offence punishable under the PMLA,

2002. It justifies the registration of ECIR and arrest of the

husband of the petitioner under the PMLA, 2002. 27. For the aforementioned reasons, the petition is

hereby dismissed. 28. It is needless to state that the observations made

herein above are in relation to the case on hand and if the

husband of the petitioner were to make any application for bail,

the same would be considered by the Court concerned in - 70 - accordance with law. Further, if the 'B' report were to be

accepted by the trial Court in FIR No.218/2022 , the husband of

the petitioner would be at liberty to make necessary application

for quashing of the proceedings against him. Pending I.As., if any, stand disposed of. Sd/- (M.I.ARUN)
 JUDGE

PGG/VMB