1. At the outset, it is stated by Mr. Nikhil Jain, learned AOR,

that there is a typographical mistake in the order dated

17.11.2025, where the IA number has been wrongly described as

286533/2025 instead of 285111/2025. A similar mistake has been

committed in the order dated 20.11.2025. 2. In view of the above statement, the IA number in the above 4 orders be read as 285111/2025. The Registry is directed to make

necessary corrections in the said orders. 3. These suo-motu proceedings were initiated on receipt of a

complaint by this Court from a senior citizen couple who were

defrauded of their life savings through a digital arrest scam. No

sooner had cognizance been taken, various victims came forward, and

some have also filed applications for their impleadment as

intervenors. Pursuant to the directions issued through previous

orders, it is now evident that multiple FIRs have been registered

across different States based on complaints made by the victims.

The severity and scale of the crime are highlighted by the fact

that several States have unanimously reported that senior citizens

are most often targeted by fraudsters employing various deceptive

tactics to deceive them. 4. The learned Amicus Curiae has, after a preliminary examination

of the incidents brought to the notice of this Court, segregated

these scams into the following three categories: 5. There can indeed be no manner of doubt that every type of

cybercrime resulting in victim deception, especially involving

senior citizens, whether categorised into three groups or

otherwise, requires specialised investigation. However, digital

arrest scams clearly demand the urgent attention of the country’s

leading investigative agencies. Accordingly, we direct that the

Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) shall be the primary agency

to investigate cases reporting digital arrest scams. Other

categories of scams will be addressed in subsequent phases of the

ongoing investigation, to be monitored and supervised by this

Court. 6. To strengthen the hands of the CBI, especially after perusing

the preliminary report submitted by it, we deem it appropriate to

issue the following interim directions: The material on record so far has revealed an alarming, negligent,

and irresponsible attitude by these telecom service providers in

issuing SIM cards, particularly the allocation of multiple SIM

cards to a single name. In this regard, we direct the Department of

Telecommunications to submit a proposal for the Court's

consideration that may need to be implemented by all telecom

service providers to prevent the misuse of SIM cards. (viii) The State Governments and Union Territories are directed

to ensure expeditious establishment and operationalisation of

Regional and State Cybercrime Coordination Centres, and in case

there is any impediment being faced by them, they shall be at

liberty to apprise this Court at the earliest. There is no

gainsaying that the establishment of the Regional and State

Cybercrime Coordination Centres allied with the Central Government

Nodal Centre is essential for a coordinated, swift, timely and

effective preventive measures against cybercrime. 7. Learned Amicus Curiae has also sought certain directions which

are being issued hereinafter. All further submissions by the

parties/intervenors/any other aggrieved person or those who want to

assist the learned Amicus Curiae shall be at liberty to send

relevant material or provide their submissions to her e-mail ID,

i.e. [email protected] . 8. It has already been clarified that the scope of these suo motu

proceedings relates first to digital arrest scams, and

subsequently, we will consider the desirability of monitoring the

investigation of other cybercrimes, as already categorised in 8 paragraph 4 of this order. 9. It goes without saying that the learned Solicitor General of

India will ensure that the Ministry of Home Affairs, Department of

Telecommunications, Ministry of Electronics and Information

Technology, and Ministry of Finance are duly represented and their

viewpoints are brought on record from time to time for the

effective assistance of this Court. 10. The Department of Telecommunications shall enter appearance

through the learned counsel representing the Union of India on the

next date of hearing. 11. All the intermediaries under the Rules are directed to

preserve all data relating to the mobile phones which were

reportedly used in committing these cybercrimes and the details

whereof find mention in the FIR/crimes registered by different

States. 12. It has also been brought to our notice that insofar as the

issue of freezing of bank accounts involved in the digital arrest

scams is concerned, there are conflicting views of the Kerala High

Court in W.P.(C) No. 38383/2025 titled ‘Rasmi K.R. v. NCCRP & Ors ’

and Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court in Criminal W.P. 328/2025

titled ‘Kartik Yogeshwar Chatur Vs. Union of India & Ors’. We have

impressed upon the learned Solicitor General of India to see that

the Special Leave Petitions are filed in both cases as early as

possible, but not later than two weeks. In this regard, necessary

assistance may be provided by the learned Amicus Curiae. The

Registry is directed that as soon as such SLPs are filed, subject

to curing of defects, the same be ordered to be listed before this 9 Court without any delay. 13. In the meantime, we direct that wherever any amount lying in a

bank account is prima facie traceable to digital arrest or other

cybercrimes, as already reported to the State police, the CBI or

NCRP portal, the CBI and the State police authorities, with or

without FIR, are at liberty to freeze such accounts. 14. Post this matter for further consideration on 16.12.2025.