This petition has been filed praying to quash the prosecution against the petitioner in C.C.No.31289 of 2004 pending on the file of Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore, Chennai. 2. History of the case is as follows: 3. The prosecution has submitted that since the competent authority has not sanctioned to prosecute against the public servants, requested the Special Judge, CBI cases to transfer the Original First Information Report to the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate. After filing the final report, one Shreyas Sripal[A1], V.S.Vasan[A3] and K.S.Selvakumar[A9] filed a petition to discharge. The trial Court has allowed their petition on 20.10.2014. Aggrieved by that, Investigating Agency has preferred criminal revision petitions, which are pending before the High Court. 4. Some of the accused alone succeeded in getting discharge from the trial Court. As against the order of discharge, CBI has filed a revision in Crl.R.C.No.27 of 2015 before the trial Court. However, on revision preferred by the respondent police, the learned XV Additional Sessions Judge, Chennai has allowed the appeal on 07.09.2015 by setting aside the order of discharge passed by the trial Court in Crl.M.P.No.790 of 2014. By way of filing quash petition invoking under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the petitioner[A7] has preferred the present petition for the aforesaid relief. 5. The role of the petitioner as found in the final report is extracted in the counter filed by the respondent, which is as under: 6. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted his arguments on the following grounds: 7. It is also brought to the notice of this Court by the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner that after filing charge sheet on 15.12.2004, the prosecution has filed supplementary charge sheet on 09.07.2008 by arraying one K.P.Mohamed Gany as A13, since he was apprehended subsequent to filing charge sheet and on further investigation, in the matter relating to forged document of property offered as collateral security, after discharge of A1 , A2,A3, A5, A7 and A9, third charge sheet has been filed arraying M/s Pan Clothing Consolidated Company Limited as one of the accused. Filing the final report endlessly indicates the pick and choose attitude of prosecution and witch hunting. For all these reasons the petition to quash has to be allowed. 8. The learned Special Public Prosecutor (CBI Cases) appearing for the respondent submitted that the reasons stated to quash the case is not sustainable. Initially, registration of the First Information Report against M/s Pan Clothing Consolidated Limited Company, its Directors and Former Senior Manager of Punjab & Sind Bank and other unknown persons, prima faciely revealed the criminal conspiracy and cheating these accused. Since one of the named accused was a public servant, the offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 was made out. Immediately after receipt of the complaint on 20.08.2002, the case was registered against few known and other unknown persons both public servants and private individuals under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . After completion of investigation, the final report was filed against 12 private individuals, since the appropriate authorities refused to accord the sanction for prosecution as against the public servant. The same was mentioned to the Special Court, CBI cases and sought for forwarding the First Information Report to Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore, Chennai before whom the final report was presented on 14th December 2004. Since no charge under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 was sought to be tried, the process adopted by the prosecution is in consonance with the procedure laid down and there is no error or illegality in it. Insofar as the settlement of dues subsequently in the year 2008, by the borrower is concerned, it will not exonerate the offence of forgery and conspiracy of cheating. It cannot be the reason to quash the criminal prosecution. 9. The judgments relied on by the petitioner are not applicable to the facts of the present case and the recent judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, which has come down heavily upon quashing the criminal prosecution under Section 482 of Criminal Procedure Code, considering the settlement between the parties, in case of grave economic offence. Regarding the discharge of other accused, the learned Special Public Prosecutor (CBI cases) appearing for the respondent submitted that the order of discharge is under challenge before this Court and other Bench of this Court which has heard the cases and reserved for orders. Insofar as the probability of conviction, the learned Special Public Prosecutor(CBI cases) submitted that it is a wishful thinking of the petitioner that scope of conviction is improbable. Whereas there is overwhelming evidence to prove the fabrication of documents fraudulent accounts and cheating the nationalized bank to the tune of Rs.42,97 crores. The subsequent settlement of the due, after launching the prosecution and after filing the civil suit, will not stand in the way of prosecution. In the perpetrating of the crime, if any indulgence is shown to these accused, it will give a wrong signal to the potential of fraudsters. 10. The points for consideration are as follows: 11. 157(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code reads as under: 12. 173(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code reads as under:- 13. Sections 3 and 4 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 read as under: 14. Thus, while registering the First Information Report based on the information received, the material facts had revealed offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and Indian Penal Code committed by the public servants and private individuals. Hence, the First Information Report has been forwarded to the Special Court having exclusive jurisdiction to try offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , in compliance with Section 157(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and Section 4 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Later, after completion of investigation, the prosecution agency were declined sanction under Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 to prosecute the public servants. In the absence of sanction to prosecute the public servants, offence under Prevention of Corruption Act had been deleted. The prosecution has filed the final report against the private individuals for the IPC offences, disclosing the above fact. 15. At pre-cognizance stage, it is for the court concerned to decide about its jurisdiction competency. In this case, the Special Court has rightly transferred the First Information Report to the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate. 16. Section 4 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 empowers the Special Judge exclusively to try offence punishable under that Act and when trying case under the Prevention of Corruption Act may also try any offence other than, the offence specified in Section 3 of the Act, with which the accused may, under Criminal Procedure Code be charged at the same trial. 17. Thus, it is amply clear that the Special Judge has no jurisdiction to exclusively try offence other than the offence punishable under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . In other words, the power of the Special Court constituted under the Prevention of Corruption Act shall exercise its jurisdiction to try cases under other Acts inclusive of Prevention of Corruption Act cases but not exclusive of Prevention of Corruption Act cases. 18. Regarding subsequent settlement of due by the company and no due certificate used by the bank and the judgment cited by the counsel, it is pertinent to record that the First Information Report was registered in the year 2002. A suit for recovery of money was filed in the year 2004. The settlement was arrived in the year 2009. The settlement has not come immediately or voluntarily but only after criminal prosecution and civil suit. In this connection, in the recent judgment of the Apex Court in Parbatbhai Aahir @ Parbatbhai Bhimsinhbhai Karmur & Others v. State of Gujarat & Another reported in [CDJ 2017 SC 1109] the three judges bench of the Apex Court, after considering the earlier judgments on quashing criminal prosecution after settlement with the bank has held that: ....In economic offences Court must not only keep in view that money has been paid to the bank which has been defrauded but also the society at large. It is not a case of simple assault or a theft of a trivial amount; but the offence with which we are concerned is well planned and was committed with a deliberate design with an eye of personal profit regardless of consequence to the society at large. To quash the proceedings merely on the ground that the accused has settled the amount with the bank would be a misplaced sympathy. If the prosecution against the economic offenders are not allowed to continue, the entire community is aggrieved. 14.In a subsequent decision in State of Tamil Nadu v. R.Vasanthi Stanley ((2016) 1 SCC 376), the Court rejected the submission that the first respondent was a woman who was following the command of her husbandand had signed certain documents without being aware of the nature of the fraud which was being perpetrated on the bank. Rejecting the submission, this Court held that: 15.The broad principles which emerge from the precedents on the subject, may be summarised in the following propositions: 13.10.2017

Index:Yes/No
Internet:Yes/No
Speaking order/non speaking order
ari
To 1.The Inspector of Police,Central Bureau of Investigation,
Bank Securities and Fraud Cell,Bangalore. 2.The Special Public prosecutor, CBI Cases, Chennai. Dr.G.Jayachandran,J. ari

Pre-delivery order made in Crl.O.P.No.1288 of 2017 13.10.2017