% 17.02.2026 1. The applicant seeks regular bail in a case arising out of FIR No.
 480/2024 dated 16.10.2024, registered at P.S. Special Cell, Delhi, for
 commission of offences under Sections 318/319/61 of Bharatiya Nyaya
 Sanhita (BNS), 2023 (corresponding Sections 415 / 416 / 120B IPC). 2. According to learned counsel for applicant, the principal perpetrator
 and Mastermind is one Abhishek Kumar. He was the one who, allegedly,
 created APK files, maintained foreign links and handled proceeds of alleged
 scam and since Abhishek has already been released on bail, the continued
 incarceration of the applicant herein, whose role is much more trivial, is
 absolutely unwarranted. He also contends that the learned Trial Court has
 dismissed the applicant's bail application without appreciating the actual
 role ascribed to him and even if the case of the prosecution is taken as
 gospel truth, the involvement of applicant was, merely, limited to arranging
 an account against promised commission, which was nominal one. It is also
 argued that there is no mens rea involved and since the investigation is
 already complete and the applicant is not required for any custodial
 interrogation either, no purpose would be achieved by keeping him behind BAIL APPLN. 4230/2025 1 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/02/2026 at 20:36:13
 the bars. 3. The FIR in the present case came to be registered on the basis of
 complaint of Mr. Mahinder Kumar, who claimed himself to be victim of
 online fraud. He alleged that on 13.08.2024, he was added to a WhatsApp
 group by one Ishani Mehta who introduced herself as Assistant of RBL
 Securities. He, was, then added to another WhatsApp group and a web-link
 of trading application was also shared with him. He was convinced to invest
 money through their platform on the pretext of high returns and was,
 eventually, duped of total amount of Rs. 6.38 crores. 4. The complainant was induced to deposit the abovesaid amount in
 multiple bank accounts and substantial amount of Rs. 99.81 lacs was
 deposited in account of 'Kumar Properties' maintained at UCO Bank, Patna,
 Bihar. 5. The concerned Bank Manager was directed to provide KYC
 documents of the said account which revealed that abovesaid account was in
 the name of one 'Guddu Kumar'. The details of the related mobile number
 and e-mail ID, linked with said account, were shared with the police by such
 Bank Manager. However, when the police visited the given address of
 'Kumar Properties', no such firm was found running from there and even
 Guddu Kumar was not found. 6. During investigation, police sought details of said email-ID linked
 with the abovesaid bank account and on the basis of reply received from
 Google LLC, and based on IP logs, the investigating agencies, eventually,
 reached the applicant herein i.e. Dilkhush Kumar. 7. The applicant was thereby directed to join the investigation and
 during interrogation, when confronted with technical evidence, he remained BAIL APPLN. 4230/2025 2 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/02/2026 at 20:36:13
 evasive and was, therefore, arrested. From his possession, two mobile
 phones were also recovered, which as per the prosecution, are directly
 connected to said bank account. 8. As per learned APP for the State and learned counsel for complainant,
 there is active participation of the applicant in the entire cyber scam. He was
 the one who was renting mule bank accounts and installing APK files on the
 mobile phones in a deceitful manner by forwarding mere OTPs and even the
 WhatsApp data recovered from his mobile phone reveals his complicity, as
 it confirms that he was in constant touch with his other co-accused. 9. As per the investigation, the abovesaid account of 'Kumar Properties'
 opened at UCO Bank, Patna was his handiwork, as his role, inter alia, was
 to open bogus firms and for such purpose, he, even, allured indigent and
 downtrodden persons. He used to prepare the required documents and
 facilitate opening of bank accounts in their names, for the purpose of illegal
 activities. He was the one who created the abovesaid e-mail ID registered
 with the abovesaid account of 'Kumar Properties' where substantial amount
 was transferred by the complainant and later siphoned off. It is contended
 that there is recovery of incriminating data from the two mobile phones
 recovered from his possession and according to prosecution, his high skill in
 technical aspects was one reason behind the magnitude of the present fraud. 10. According to learned counsel for applicant, the mastermind of such
 cyber scam is Abhishek Kumar and since he has already been released on
 bail, the applicant herein also becomes entitled to concession of bail. 11. Learned APP and learned Counsel for complainant while opposing to
 the abovesaid plea for bail, contend that co-accused Abhishek Kumar had
 facilitated partial compensation to the complainant which resulted in grant BAIL APPLN. 4230/2025 3 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/02/2026 at 20:36:13
 of bail to him as the complainant had given his 'no objection' in this regard.
 The bail was granted to him on 07.08.2025 by learned Court of Sessions,
 without going into the merits of the case, albeit, while granting bail, the
 learned Sessions Court should have assessed the entire magnitude of the
 case as the partial compensation was highly, even otherwise,
 disproportionate. 12. Be that as it may, the charges have yet not been farmed and some of
 the co-accused are still at large and, therefore, at this juncture, this Court
 does not find any merit in the present application. 13. The application is accordingly dismissed. 14. However, once the charges are ascertained, applicant shall be at
 liberty to file application afresh. 15. Needless to state, nothing observed hereinabove shall be taken as final
 expression on the merits of the case. MANOJ JAIN, J
 FEBRUARY 17, 2026/sw/sa BAIL APPLN. 4230/2025 4 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/02/2026 at 20:36:13