K.K. Balu, Vice-Chairman 1. The petitioners collectively constituting 40% of the total number of members of M/s APAKSH Broadband Limited ("the Company") aggrieved on account of certain acts of oppression and mismanagement in the affairs of the Company, have invoked the provisions of Sections 397 , 398 , 402 & 403 of the Companies Act, 1956 ("the Act"), seeking the following reliefs: 2. The facts, in brief, leading to the main petition are: 3. Shri S. Ravi, learned Counsel, while initiating his arguments, in support of the petitioners, raised the following prelimirary issues: • It is absolutely essential to adduce oral evidence to establish the case of the petitioners, in the absence of which true facts would not emerge. It is settled law, as affirmed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Sri Ramadas Motor Transport Limited v. Karedla Suryanarayana Rao (2002) Vol. 110 CC 193 that in an appropriate case, the CLB has powers to allow the parties to let in oral evidence to prove their case. The petitioners would suffer loss, if they are not permitted to let in oral evidence, establishing their stand in the present proceedings. • The respondents have produced before the CLB a number of documents along with the counter affidavit dated 06.02.2007 as well as the surrejoinder filed on 11.07.2007. However, the petitioners are disputing the genuineness and correctness of most of such records, particulars of which are furnished in a memo dated 31.07.2007 filed by the petitioners. • The petitioners carried out inspection of several documents in August 2007, pursuant to the order of the Bench. AKSH made available the invoices for the years 2005-2006 and 2006-2007, out of which a large number of invoices are missing and there are invoices unsupported by lorry receipts. In some cases delivery was reportedly taken, but names of persons were not available to ascertain who actually took delivery of the goods, covered by those invoices. In some invoices, stamp of the Company which took delivery is missing, but only contains purported signatures and some were qualified, such as, subject to verification. There is huge difference in value of goods as reflected in the invoices hen compared to the cost mentioned in the corresponding delivery challans. In some invoices, price of the same goods is varying. Most of the lorry receipts do not carry the endorsement of commercial tax department at check posts, despite the fact that goods had passed through at least three States. The transporters, in some cases, have taken 25 days for transportation of the goods to Hyderabad, as against 3-4 days. The lorry receipts and invoices now produced for inspection are fabricated for the purpose of the present company petition. AKSH, reportedly supplied cables worth Rs. 114 crores, which are not supported by the invoices and all the invoices produced are bogus documents. No goods worth Rs. 114 crores as claimed by AKSH have been supplied under the EPC contract. • The petitioners have produced a copy of the unsigned letter dated 14.06.2007 addressed by Managing Director, APTS Limited, in favour of the Secretary II, IT&C Department, Government of Andhra Pradesh, disclosing the irregularities in supply of the materials by AKSH. It speaks of the physical verification conducted by APTS Engineers, the project status etc under EPC contract. The main grievances of the petitioners that AKSH had dumped inferior quality cables, inflated the invoices, raised bogus invoices and failed to achieve any connectivity inspite of spending huge monies can be established by summoning the said letter dated 14.06.2007, as sought in C.A. No. 183 of 2007. Shri Ravi learned Counsel, on merits of the main petition submitted: 4. Shri Raghavan, learned Senior Counsel, while opposing the company petition submitted: 5. I have considered the pleadings and arguments of learned Senior Counsel for the parties. The main issue for consideration is whether the grievances complained of by the petitioners warrant intervention of the Company Law Board, in exercise of the powers under Sections 397 & 398 read with Section 402 of the Act. All the preliminary issues, being inter twined with series of contentious issues raised before me will appropriately be dealt along with the merits of the main petition. At this point of time it is relevant to observe that when the respondents sought to modify the exparte interim order made on 05.12.2006, whereby it was directed that any decision that may be taken at the board meeting of 08.12.2006 on inter alia the forfeiture of shares of the petitioners in relation to the partly paid shares, shall not be implemented without the leave of this Bench, it was felt, on affording an opportunity of hearing to both the sides, that any such restraint order on the lines of the order dated 05.12.2006, will only contribute towards imminent stoppage of the project, causing prejudice to the interests of the Company and consequently the public at large. Accordingly, the interim order restraining the Company passed on 05.12.2006 from implementing the board resolution in relation to the forfeiture of shares as proposed at the board meeting held on 08.12.2006 came to be vacated on 20.03.2007, subject to the petitioners contributing the required funds towards the final call money by 30.04.2006, however, granting liberty in their favour, to approach the Company in the event of any further time that may be required by the petitioners to ensure compliance with the modified order of the Bench. It was further simultaneously directed, that AKSH would bring in its share of final call money amounting to Rs. 25 crores. Against this order dated 20.03.2007 modifying the interim order dated 05.12.2006, the petitioners have preferred an appeal in C.A. No. 1036/2007 in C.A. No. 918/2007 in C.P. No. 9/2007, before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, wherein, it was directed in the light of the representations made on behalf of the parties that there is no hurdle for the CLB to proceed with the hearing of the company petition by virtue of the pendency of the appeal before the High Court. The CLB shall proceed according to its own schedule of hearing of the main petition. This Bench, therefore, proceeded with the hearing of the main petition from time to time on merits and accordingly the order is being pronounced. The acts of oppression and mismanagement complained of in the affairs of the Company on account of the respondents are as under: 6. It is on record that the Company has conducted as many as ten board meetings during the period between 14.02.2005 and 08.12.2006, out of which the second respondent chaired eight board meetings, transacting the business relating to the affairs of the Company including the issues relating to the project covered under the EPC contract. However, none of those board minutes discloses any of the grievances raised by the second petitioner before the CLB. The Company had paid several crores of rupees during the period between 10.06.2005 and 23.05.2006 in favour of AKSH by means of as many as eight cheques signed by the second petitioner reportedly towards supply of materials and rendering of services by AKSH under the EPC contract. It is relevant to observe that the board meetings were held on 01.07.2005, 17.09.2005, 30.11.2005, 15.12.2005, 04.03.2006, 10.07.2006 and 08.12.2006, after release of the funds in favour of AKSH by the Company under the EPC contract. Nevertheless the charges presently levelled by the petitioners on defective supply of the cables, siphoning of the Company's funds against fictious bills, etc. have been neither raised nor deliberated at any of the aforesaid board meetings. The second petitioner neither putforth all these charges at the annual general meeting of the members of the company held on 02.08.2006, whereas the board of directors of the Company, which included the second petitioner thanked, among others, AKSH for their co-operation in the directors' report, forming part of the annual report for the year 2005-2006. The second petitioner in his communication dated 22.08.2006 addressed to AKSH while complaining of non-payment of commission to the first petitioner, other issues relating to internet loss, supply of switches, cable TV equipment, spoke of for the first the financial indiscipline adopted by AKSH by taking away huge amounts on the same day when the share application monies were credited to the account of the Company. Nevertheless, the accusation relating to supply of defective and substandard materials as well as siphoning of funds against bogus invoices by AKSH, which are rather very serious nature have not been raised therein. The second petitioner has raised for the first time in his communication dated 01.11.2006 the irregularities purportedly indulged at the instance of AKSH, just before the initiation of the present company petition filed on 04.12.2006. There are communications from the Company addressed to APTS in April, May and August 2006 pursuing for right of way permission and allotment of land to locate Network Operations Centre, from wherein it could be ascertained that sincere efforts are being putforth by the Company for the speedy implementation of the project, whereas there was no complaint made by the second petitioner before filing of the company petition on serious charges presently levelled against AKSH save the lone communication stated supra. Though, the petitioners have produced the complaints of a number of contractors made in September and November 2006, there is no material to show that the claim of the contractors has been at any time placed before the board of directors of the Company, for appropriate remedial action on the part of AKSH. 7. The Managing Committee was constituted on 24.05.2006, with among others, the second petitioner as a member, for monitoring the project implementation. The minutes of the meeting of the Managing Committee of the Company dated 20.11.2006 would reveal that the Committee deliberated (i) AKSH's outstanding payments to the contractors; and (ii) all the issues raised by the IT Secretary in his communication, wherein it was assured on behalf of the second respondent that the second respondent would make some payment to the contractors within a week days time and further that the second respondent would answer all the Issues in a meeting with the IT secretary in person as soon as possible. However, there are no details regarding the issues raised by the IT Secretary in his communication, which came to be discussed at the meeting of the Management Committee. The second petitioner is a party to the deliberations took place at the meeting of Managing Committee as borne out by the minutes of the meeting, signed by the second petitioner. There is nothing to suggest that the second petitioner raised at the aforesaid meeting the serious issues in relation to supply of poor quality and sub-standard materials while implementing the project or siphoning of monies to a tune of Rs. 100 crores by AKSH at the implementation stage, against the fictitious invoices or any other substantial charges set out in the company petition. The Management Committee meeting was held on 20.11.2006, just two weeks prior to filing of the company petition on 04.12.2006. Nevertheless, the minutes of the Management Committee meeting are silent on every one of the petition mentioned allegations save the default committed by AKSH towards the contractors. There is nothing whatsoever to show that the second petitioner being a director in charge of the day-to-day management of the Company and forming part of the Project Implementation Committee, ever exercised due diligence either in monitoring the progress of the project or in making payments to AKSH in terms of the EPC contract. In this connection, the e-mail correspondence exchanged on 13.03.2006 between the second petitioner and second respondent would indicate that the second petitioner made the payment on mere asking by the second respondent, but payments ought to be made only when the invoices are complete in all aspects as stipulated in Article 5 of the EPC contract. The sequence of events would indicate that the second petitioner has submitted to the conduct complained of without protest and has acquiesced in the alleged mis-appropriation of funds of the Company and further found to be a mute spectator of the alleged illegalities on the part of AKSH. 8. In the light of the principles enunciated by the Supreme Court and the High Court of Karnataka in S.P. Chengalvaruya Naidu (Dead) by LRs v. Jagannath (Dead) by LRs and Ors. ( supra) and Srikanta Datta Narasimharaja Wadiyar v. Sri Venkateswara Real Estate Enterprises Private Limited (supra) respectively, I am of the firm view that the petitioners must be declined the equitable reliefs, being discretionary in nature, yet considering the grave seriousness of the charges, they are being examined with reference to the documents on record before the Bench. The auditors' report of M/s S. Suresh and Co. Chartered Accountants, dated 10.07.2006 forming part of the annual report for the year 2005-2006 discloses that the Company maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of fixed assets. During the year 2005-2006, the management has carried out physical verification of fixed assets. No material discrepancies were noticed on such verification. There are adequate internal procedures consummerate with the size of the Company and the nature of its business, for the purchase of goods and fixed assets and for sale of goods. The auditors have not observed any continuing failure to correct major weakness in such internal controls. The fixed assets listed out in schedule-3, forming part of the balance sheet for the year ended 31.03.2006 include cables and other accessories worth Rs. 94.73 crores. The balance sheet of the Company has been signed by the first petitioner also. The certificate dated 05.02.2007 of the statutory auditors of AKSH would show that AKSH supplied equipments and materials to the Company under the EPC contract to a tune of Rs. 94.43 crores during the period 2005-2006, which is broadly in consonance with the figure of Rs. 94.73 crores, being the value of cables and other accessories held by the Company reflected in the balance sheet for the year ended 31.03.2005 of the Company. However, the supplies made by AKSH to the Company during the year 2006-2007, as certified by the statutory auditors of AKSH are not taken cognisance, in view the disputes raised by the petitioners. The e-mail communication dated 25.11.2006 from APTS emanated ten days prior to the petitioners approaching the CLB would indicate the deficiencies in implementing the EPC contract and non-payment to the contractors by AKSH. The Communication dated 04.12.2006 addressed to the second petitioner by an employee of AKSH on non-receipt of materials despite of receipt of as many as 78 invoices amounting to Rs. 62.19 crores, does not assume any significance in view of the fact that the company petition has been signed on 02.12.2006, two days prior to the said communication, and further that the company petition has been filed on 04.12.2006. Similarly, APTS has given on 19.01.2007, after initiation of the present proceedings, a notice of default on AKSH for its failure to complete the project by 31.12.2006 and obtain the NLD licence, invoking the relevant clauses of the EPC contract and sought to rectify the events of default within the time stipulated therein. All these developments have arisen out of breach of the contractual obligations and that too subsequent to the date of the main petition and therefore, would be relevant for the purpose of only moulding reliefs, if any. 9. M/s S.R. Batliboi & Associates, Chartered Accountants appointed at the annual general meeting held on 02.08.2006 to audit the accounts of the Company for the year 2006-2007 were not permitted to visit any of the previous year's books/numbers as reflected in their e-mail dated 07.12.2006. It is further evident that the second petitioner objected to the audit to be carried out by M/s S.R. Batliboi & Associates, since the same was already conducted by M/s Suresh & Co., Chartered Accountants, as borne by his letter dated 05.03.2007 addressed to M/s S.R. Batliboi & Associates. It is observed from the minutes of the board meeting dated 09.03.2007 in relation to status of audit of accounts and the arguments advanced in this regard on behalf of the respondents, which remained un-repudiated, that all the books and records and computer systems containing the Company's data have been already shifted to the premises of APTS on 12.03.2007 for the purpose of auditing the accounts for the period 2005-2006 and 2006-2007, which is yet to be commenced by M/s S.R. Botliboi & Associates, pursuant to the disputes between the parties. While the second petitioner refused to permit M/s S.R. Batliboi & Associates, Chartered Accountants, to audit the accounts of the Company for the year 2006-2007, which would also involve physical verification of fixed assets, he is seeking in the present proceedings to appoint a team of Chartered Accountants, to evaluate the quantum of work done by AKSH and thereby the second petitioner adopted contradictory approach, which is not appreciable on his part. AKSH is yet to contribute Rs. 25 crores towards the equity capital of the Company, out of the total of Rs. 113 crores required to be brought in by it, while the first petitioner had already contributed Rs. 22.2 crores and is to bring in an amount of Rs. 14.8 crores. The board of directors of the Company at its meeting held on 24.05.2006 resolved to make a call for payment of balance call money at Rs. 2/- per share on equity shares of Rs. 5/- each due from the shareholders, upon which the first petitioner was served with a call notice dated 29.05.2006 for payment of the balance call money of Rs. 14,77,50,000/- due on 7,38,75,000 equky shares. In response to the said call notice, the first petitioner in its letter dated 21.08.2006, sought extension of time for payment of the last call on its shares, which became due on 28.08.2006, by another term of three months owing to the unforeseen circumstances that the expected funds could not be mobilised to meet the demand of the Company. The first petitioner in yet another communication dated 25.11.2006, sought for a further period of six months on the ground that the sixth respondent had failed to release the balance inter corporate deposit of Rs. 21.9 crores in terms of the agreement dated 25.03.2006. The first petitioner further accused the second respondent for obstructing the release of the balance amount of inter corporate deposit amount for personal reasons. In the meanwhile, the board of directors of the Company at the meeting held on 08.12.2006, proposed to take necessary action in terms of articles of association of the Company to consider and issue notice of forfeiture to the shareholders who have not paid final call money on shares, which was however restrained at the instance of the petitioners, by an order dated 05.12.2006 by this Bench. The second petitioner for the first time at the board meeting held on 09.03.2007 after filing of the company petition found to have raised all the serious acts of mismanagement in implementation of the project. On an overall assessment of the developments leading to the present company petition, it is perhaps on account of the inability on the part of the petitioners to meet the demand of the Company towards unpaid call money on the partly paid up shares held by the first petitioner, the second petitioner is belatedly raising the various serious issues in relation to non implementation of the project under the EPC contract. At this juncture, it will not be irrelevant to point out that respondents, on conclusion of the arguments, expressed their willingness and readiness for evaluation of the quantum of work done by AKSH and for verification of the equipments and materials supplied by AKSH towards implementation of the project under the EPC contract, which was also acceptable to the petitioners, however, subject to the stipulation that the petitioners would bring in the final call money only on completion of the evaluation process, whereas the respondents made it absolutely clear that these two processes will be independent of each other and not inter dependent. This would show that the petitioners are only keen in verification of supply of the cables and other accessories supplied by AKSH under the EPC contract but not to meet the demand of the Company on account of the final call money payable by them. 10. All the accusation pointed out at the sixth respondent on account of its failure to fulfill its obligations under the inter corporate deposit agreement in favour of the first petitioner which disabled it to pay the final call money, being the internal disputes between the first petitioner and the sixth respondent and not in the affairs of the Company can in no way be raised in the present proceedings on the ground that such an act on the part of sixth respondent would constitute an act of oppression. The collusion pleaded by the petitioners on the part of AKSH with sixth respondent will neither arise for consideration. 11. The apprehension of the petitioners on account of the probable cancellation of the marketing agreement at the instance of AKSH, not affecting the rights of the petitioners qua shareholders is not amenable to the jurisdiction of the CLB, in the light of the judgment of the Karnataka High Court rendered in M.L. Thukral and Ors. v. Krone Communications Limited and Ors. (supra) justifying the order of the Company Law Board in having refused to exercise the jurisdiction in respect of distributorship agreement. Having come to the conclusion that the CLB cannot exercise its equitable jurisdiction to adjudicate the disputes raised by the petitioners, emanating from the EPC contract, for the reasons elaborated elsewhere, the requirement of oral evidence for the deciding the case before me does not arise and therefore, the decision of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh in Sri Ramadas Motor Transport Limited and Ors. v. Karedla Suryanarayana and Ors. (supra), wherein, it was held that when the CLB exercises judicial functions the elementary principle of adjudicatory process is observance of rules of procedure, i.e. pleadings supported by oral and documentary evidence and the respective parties have to get into the witness box to prove their case and also subject themselves to cross-examination to test the correctness or the veracity of his case apart form proving the authenticity of the documents, will be of little assistance to the petitioners. Similarly there is no need either to summon the unsigned letter dated 14.06.2007 of APTS, copy of which has been produced by the petitioners, without disclosing the source of acquiring such letter, or go into the disputed invoices and other contentious documents produced by the respondents, which are already found to be the outside purview of the present proceedings and which would be relevant only to prove the non implementation of the project as per the EPC contract. 12. The very wide powers possessed by the CLB by virtue of Section 397 / 398 read with Section 408 of the Act as elaborately dealt by the Madras High Court in Shoe Specialities Private Limited v. Standard Distilleries and Breweries Private Limited (supra) can in no way be exercised on account of the fact that the main grievances of the petitioners are already not found to be remediable in the present proceedings. 13. The misunderstanding which arose on account of the financial obligations as envisaged in the rental agreement for shifting the Company's registered office is being appropriately remedied. The admitted position is neither the petitioners nor the respondents, brought in the final call money in terms of the order dated 20.03.2007 of this Bench, which is however, under challenge before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, in view of which, I am not inclined to go into the merits of the charges that AKSH had issued cheques towards the final call money, without any funds in the bank account to its credit and also the justification putforth by AKSH that, in view of the status quo order of the High Court in the pending appeal, funds are not brought by AKSH, in terms of the above cited order of this Bench. 14. In view of the foregoing conclusions, the petitioners are not entitled for the reliefs claimed before the CLB and therefore, it is left to the collective wisdom of the directors of the first respondent Company to take such action as they deem fit in the day-to-day affairs of the Company, particularly with reference to evaluation of the quantum of work completed by AKSH, supply of the equipments and materials under the EPC contract, investments made by AKSH towards the share capital of the Company, realization of the final call money from the shareholders of the Company, recovery of the security-deposit from the first petitioner covered under the rental agreement, settlement of pending bills of the contractors, audit of accounts of the Company etc., which are within the lawful domain of the board of directors of the Company. Ordered accordingly. In view of this, all the interim orders stand vacated.