01.12.2023
 Heard Mr D Gogoi, learned counsel for the petitioners, 1) Sumit Bose and
 Page No.# 2/8 2) Sunil Das. 2. The petitioners have filed this application under Section 439 Cr.PC, with
prayer for bail as they are in jail since 14.09.2023, in connection with Dispur P.S.
FIR No. 2126/2023 under Sections 120B / 419 / 420 / 385 / 467 / 471 / 468 / 507 IPC
read with Sections 65 / 66 / 66B / 66C / 66D of IT Act, 2000. 3. It is submitted on behalf of the petitioner that- That the aforesaid case in Dispur P.S. was registered on the strength of an FIR
 dated 07.11.2023 lodged by one Inspector of Police(UB) namely Madhurjya Dadhara
 wherein it was stated that one Asquib Nawaz, Partha Aditya Saikia @ Parthajit Pathak,
 Syed Tasdique Alam and Divyam Arora and other co-accused were operating a call
 centre at Satyapur path, Beltola road and one Rimpi Roy, Rajan Sidana, Debojyoti Deb
 @David, Partha Aditya Saikia @ Parthajit Pathak, Syed Tasdique Alam and Divyam
 Arora and other co-accused are learnt to be operating a call center at Ananda Nagar,
 Sixmile. And it was further stated inthe FIR that from reliable sources it was learnt that
 the aforesaid call centers were actively involved in committing serious cyber and
 economic frauds by impersonations and other such fraudulent methods.The FIR also
 specifically arrays the owners of the respective Call centers namely Indrajit Mazumder
 and Amit Das as accomplices but interestingly doesn't name them as accused. 4. It is submitted on behalf of the petitioners that they are not connected to
the call centres, named in the FIR and they do not have any knowledge of such
call centres and their nefarious activities as alleged. It is submitted that only to
circumvent the bail order, whereby the petitioners were released on bail and to
prolong their custody, the aforesaid FIR was lodged. 5. On the basis of these submissions, the petitioners have prayed for bail. 6. Also heard Ms A Begum, learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State
of Assam, who has raised serious objection stating that the parity in relation to
 Page No.# 3/8

the present petitioners do not arise at all as the present petitioners are the
prime accused and are employees in such call centres indulging in such heinous
activities. It cannot be held at this stage that no offence under Section 467 of
the IPC has been made out against the present petitioners. The Case Diary
reveals cogent and incriminating materials against the present petitioners and
they have siphoned off huge amount of money and some of the co-accused are
on foreign shores. Granting bail to the present petitioners will entail in adversely
affecting the investigation as this is a case relating to cybercrime which can be
committed from a remote area. Digital records can be easily manipulated from a
remote area and granting bail will be perilous as many individuals have already
been cheated and the petitioners have benefitted through such nefarious
activities. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor has submitted to reject the
bail petition as the import of the offence with which the petitioners are alleged,
does not entitle them to bail. 7. It is also submitted that the call centres were opened on the basis of fake documents
and fake identity proof. 8. It is further submitted that several accused involved in this offence are
evading arrest and some are even on foreign shores and absconding arrest. I
have perused the seizure list. Several desktop computers and other relevant
articles have been seized in connection with this case from various locations
around the Guwahati city area. The petitioners are employees and they are
deeply involved in running fake call centres. Several vehicles, documents,
tenancy agreements for hiring the premises were found to be fake, during
investigation. 9. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor has further submitted that
although the petitioners have submitted that all the computers laptops and
 Page No.# 4/8

official digital records have been seized in connection with this case, yet
cybercrime cannot be prevented by seizure of official digital records. It has to be
borne in mind that this offence is a cybercrime, which can also be committed
from a remote area. 10. It is true that the petitioner No. 1 is a resident of Barmanpara, Mankachar, South
Salmara and petitioner No. 2 is a resident of Mandakini Path, Uzanbazar, Kamrup
(Metro), Guwahati. There are incriminating materials that the petitioners are employees
of illegal call centres or fake call centres at Guwahati, along with their other
accomplices. One call centre is located at Rajgarh Road and the other near Mono Motors
Building at Bamunimaidam. It is also submitted that money trail is yet to be ascertained
due to the hurdle created by circulation of money through fake accounts, bit coins and
by dark web. 11. I have considered the submissions at the Bar with circumspection. 12. It is submitted that the petitioners are booked under bailable offence as Section 81 of the IT Act has an overriding effect in relation to offences under
Section IPC , except Section 467 of the IPC. It is also submitted that Section 467 of the IPC has been incorporated with malafide. It has been observed by a
coordinate Bench of this Court vide order dated 08.11.2023 in Bail Application
No. 4012/2023 that- 13. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor has relied on the decision of Neeru
Yadav -Vs- State of UP & Anr., reported in (2014) 16 SCC 508, wherein it has been
held and observed that- 14. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor has also relied on the decision of
Hon'ble the Supreme Court in Tarun Kumar -Vs- Assistant Director Directorate of
Enforcement, in SLP (Crl.) No. 9431 of 2023, decided on 20.11.2023, where it has been
held and observed that- 15. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor has prayed to dismiss the petition as the
petitioners are involved in an organized crime and their network has tentacles spread
even to remote locations and have duped citizens in foreign shores. It is also submitted
that the statements of the witnesses under 161 CrPC , have incriminated the petitioner. 16. I have scrutinized the Case Diary. I have perused the statements of the witnesses
under Section 161 CrPC. 17. The petitioners have also prayed for bail on the ground of parity. I have
considered the length of detention. The petitioners have been languishing in jail
since 14.09.2023. 18. The Case Diary reveals that the investigation has progressed to a
considerable extent. 19. Considering all aspects and in view of my foregoing discussions, petition is
allowed. The petitioners are enlarged on bail under the following conditions:- and (d) the petitioners will not leave the country without prior
 written permission from the jurisdictional Court. 20. Bail Application stands disposed of. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant