This is the First bail application filed under Section 483 of the

 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for grant of regular bail

 to the applicant who has been arrested in connection with Crime

 No.396/2025 registered at Police Station- Bhatapara City, District-

 Balodabazar-Bhatapara (C.G.) for the offences punishable under

 Sections 314, 317(2), 317(4), 61(2)(A), 112 of Bhartiya Nyay

 Sanhita and 66-C, 66- D of Information Tenchnology Act, 2000 . 2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that an information was received 2 from the Department of Home Ministry, Government of India,

 wherein it was informed that a sum of Rs. 1,55,600/- had been

 transferred, which was suspected to be the proceeds of cyber fraud.

 On the basis of the said information received from the Department

 of Home Ministry, the FIR was registered on 14.07.2025.

 Thereafter, the matter was investigated by the police and during the

 course of investigation it was found that the bank account had been

 opened and used for the commission of cyber fraud. Subsequently,

 the applicant along with other co-accused persons was arrested for

 the commission of the alleged offences. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the present applicant

 is an innocent person and has been falsely implicated in the present

 case and has not acted in the manner alleged by the prosecution. It

 is further submitted that the applicant was acquainted with one

 Sonu Wadhwani, who in the month of October 2024 requested the

 applicant to open a bank account on the pretext that the said

 account was required for making payments to labourers. Believing

 the said representation, the applicant accompanied Sonu

 Wadhwani to the India Overseas Bank and opened the account,

 and thereafter the account details as well as the mobile number

 linked with the account were handed over to Sonu Wadhwani. It is

 submitted that the applicant received a sum of Rs. 1,000/- in lieu

 thereof and the said account was thereafter operated and controlled

 by Sonu Wadhwani, and therefore prima facie there is no

 involvement of the applicant in the commission of the alleged

 offences. It is further submitted that even if the entire prosecution 3 case is taken at its face value, it would reveal that the applicant was

 cheated by Sonu Wadhwani, who in turn was cheated by Sanjay

 Tharani, and the said account was ultimately being operated by

 Sanjay Tharani. It is also submitted that the applicant is in judicial

 custody since 14.07.2025 and the trial is likely to take a

 considerable period of time for its conclusion therefore, he prays for

 grant of bail. 4. Learned State counsel opposes the bail application and submits

 that the applicant is involved in a serious offence relating to cyber

 fraud, wherein an amount of Rs. 1,55,600/- has been transferred

 through the bank account opened and operated in the name of the

 present applicant. It is submitted that during the course of

 investigation it has been found that the bank account of the

 applicant was used for the commission of cyber fraud and therefore

 the applicant cannot escape liability merely on the ground that the

 account was being operated by other co-accused persons. It is

 further submitted that the investigation has revealed the active

 involvement of the applicant in the commission of the alleged

 offences and considering the nature and gravity of the offence, the

 applicant is not entitled to be released on bail. 5. In compliance with the order of this Court, the Investigating Officer

 has filed his personal affidavit and submitted that during the course

 of investigation the present applicant was summoned in connection

 with the bank account operated in his name and notices under Sections 35(3) and 94 of the B.N.S.S., 2023 were issued to him for

 interrogation and production of documents relating to the said bank 4 account. It is submitted that during investigation it was found that a

 total amount of Rs. 9,03,215/- was credited into the bank account of

 the present applicant within a short span of time and the said

 account was used for the commission of cyber fraud. It is further

 submitted that the applicant, in his memorandum statement,

 admitted that after opening the bank account he had handed over

 the bank kit, passbook, ATM card and SIM card to co-accused

 Sonu Wadhwani in lieu of Rs. 1,000/-. It is also submitted that on

 the basis of the material collected during investigation, the present

 applicant was arrested on 14.07.2025 for the commission of the

 alleged offences. 6. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the case

 diary. 7. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the nature

 and gravity of the allegations, the material available on record and

 also the affidavit filed by the concerned Investigating Officer, this

 Court finds that during the course of investigation it has been

 revealed that the bank account of the present applicant was used

 for receiving the proceeds of cyber fraud and a total amount of Rs.

 9,03,215/- was credited into the said account within a short span of

 time, out of which a substantial amount was withdrawn by the co-

 accused persons. The case diary further reveals that the applicant

 had opened the said bank account and thereafter handed over the

 bank kit, passbook, ATM card and SIM card to co-accused Sonu

 Wadhwani in lieu of Rs. 1,000/-, which prima facie indicates his

 involvement in facilitating the commission of the alleged offence. 5 The memorandum statement and other materials collected during

 investigation also indicate that the said account was used for cyber

 fraud transactions and the explanation offered by the applicant

 regarding the operation of the bank account does not appear to be

 satisfactory at this stage. 8. Considering the seriousness of the allegations, the manner in which

 the bank account was used for receiving fraudulent money, this

 Court is of the view that the applicant was part of a well-planned

 criminal conspiracy. The offence appears to have been committed

 in an organized manner and therefore this Court is of the view that it

 is not a fit case to release the applicant on bail. 9. Accordingly, the bail application of the applicant- Rohit

 Shobhwani, involved in Crime No.396/2025 registered at Police

 Station- Bhatapara City, District- Balodabazar-Bhatapara (C.G.) for

 the offences punishable under Sections 314, 317(2), 317(4), 61(2)

 (A) , 112 of Bhartiya Nyay Sanhita and 66-C, 66- D of Information

 Tenchnology Act, 2000 , is rejected at this stage. 10. Needless to say that the trial Court concerned is at liberty to

 proceed and conclude the trial expeditiously. 11. Office is directed to provide a certified copy of this order to the trial

 Court concerned for necessary information and compliance.