and the said notification having not complied with the

 provisions of the Bihar Police Act, 2007 could not be taken to be a

 notification creating "Economic Offence Police Station". 7. To the contrary, on behalf of the State, it is submitted that

 Police Station is not only defined, but the procedure for its creation is

 contained in Section 2 (s) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973

 (hereinafter in short as „ Cr.P.C .‟). Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C., inter

 alia, provides that the State Government may declare any post or place,

 generally or specially, to be a Police Station. It does not provide for the

 Police Station to be created by a notification, which term has been

 separately defined in Section 2 (m) of the Cr.P.C. and consciously not

 used in Section 2 (s) . 8. Code of Criminal Procedure deals with the effect of creating

 a Police Station, how an F.I.R. would be lodged and registered at the

 Police Station, who from the Police Station would investigate, who

 would submit charge-sheet and on basis whereof the trial is to be

 conducted by the Criminal Court. Therefore, Cr.P.C . is a complete Code

 in itself. It is a Parliamentary legislation referable to Entry-2 List-III

 (Concurrent List) of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution of India. Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 13 - Whereas, the Bihar Police Act would be an Act of the State Legislature

 referable to Entry-2 List-II (State List) of the 7th Schedule to the

 Constitution of India and as such the Bihar Police Act could deal with

 matters, which are not within the legislative field already covered by the Cr.P.C . Accordingly, Section 8 (1) of the Bihar Police Act (hereinafter

 referred to as the „Act‟) has to be harmoniously construed, by reading it

 down, to bring in conformity with Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C., in view of

 the constitutional mandate contained in Articles 246 (2) and 246 (3) of

 the Constitution, otherwise Section 8 (1) of the Bihar Act would be ultra

 vires in view of Article 254 of the Constitution, the Bihar Act not having

 been reserved for the consideration of the President and not having

 received his assent. Thus read, Police Station has not to be set up by the

 notification in the official gazette, as contemplated by Section 8 (1) of

 the Act, but could be constituted by a declaration by the State

 Government, either generally or specially, in terms of Section 2 (s) of

 the Cr.P.C. Thus, being the constitutional position, State would submit

 that the steps taken by the State to declare Economic Offence Police

 Station culminating in the order dated 15.12.2011 completed the

 exercise and the notification dated 25th of March, 2013 was only an

 exercise by way of abundant caution. 9. In effect, in the opinion, of the then Hon‟ble the Chief

 Justice is that once the State Legislature, in view of Entry-2 List-II of the Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 14 - 7th Schedule enacted the Bihar Police Act, 2007 , a Police Station could

 be created only by virtue of Section 8 (1) of the Act thereof and that too

 by a notification in the official gazette, and not with reference to Section

 2 (s) of the Code. His further opinion was that establishment of the

 Police Station had to take into account the area, status of crime, distance

 being covered by the public in reaching the Police Station. Section 9 of

 the Act specially provided for constituting Police Station to prevent

 atrocities on Scheduled Castes and Schedule Tribes as such under the Bihar Police Act, 2007 , there was no scope of creation of Economic

 Offence Police Station much less without a notification in the official

 gazette. I am unable to subscribe this view. In view of the submissions

 as made on behalf of the State by Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior

 Counsel, clearly the then Hon‟ble Chief Justice, for whom I have high

 regards, failed to notice the constitutional scheme in the right

 perspective in these regards. 10. A reference to Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C. clearly shows

 that any post or place could be declared generally or specially by the

 State Government to be a Police Station and would include any local

 area specified by the State Government in this behalf. The Legislature

 has consciously used the expression "declared". If the Legislature

 intended to use or intended to convey that this act could be done by a

 notification in the official gazette then Section 2 (m) of the Cr.P.C., Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 15 - having defined notification, they would have used the expression

 notified instead of declared. This departure cannot, but, be intentional.

 Once, the Parliament in exercise of field of legislation covered by Entry-

 2 List-III of the 7th Schedule has so provided in the Code in respect of

 the Police Station, which is then used exhaustively in the Cr.P.C . then all

 aspects of the matter in relation to Police Station, would be covered by

 the central legislation in the Concurrent List. If this be so then the

 question would be, what would be the field of legislation that is covered

 by Entry-2 of the State List, i.e., "Police". 11. In order to determine this, it is first necessary to recall that

 the Entries in the three Lists, as contained in the 7th Schedule to the

 Constitution are fields of legislations and each entry has to be given the

 widest import. This would invariably lead to substantial overlapping of

 the fields covered by one entry in the List and another entry in another

 list. The resolution of this is provided by Articles 246 and 254 of the

 Constitution. Article 246 deals with the scope of legislative fields in

 respective lists whereas Article 254 deals with concurrent legislations

 appertaining to the Concurrent List. For ready reference, Articles 246 and 254 of the Constitution are quoted hereunder: Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution
 referred to as the "Union List"). (2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (3),
 Parliament, and, subject to clause (1), the
 Legislature of any State also, have power to
 make laws with respect to any of the matters
 enumerated in List III in the Seventh
 Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as
 the "Concurrent List"). (3) Subject to clauses (1) and (2), the
 Legislature of any State has exclusive
 power to make laws for such State or any
 part thereof with respect to any of the
 matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh
 Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as
 the "State List"). (4) Parliament has power to make laws with
 respect to any matter for any part of the
 territory of India not included [in a State]
 notwithstanding that such matter is a matter
 enumerated in the State List. 254. Inconsistency between laws made by
 Parliament and laws made by the
 Legislatures of States - (1) If any provision
 of a law made by the Legislature of a State
 is repugnant to any provision of a law made
 by Parliament which Parliament is
 competent to enact, or to any provision of
 an existing law with respect to one of the
 matters enumerated in the Concurrent List,
 then, subject to the provisions of clause (2),
 the law made by Parliament, whether passed
 before or after the law made by the
 Legislature of such State, or, as the case
 may be, the existing law, shall prevail and
 the law made by the Legislature of the State
 shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be
 void. (2) Where a law made by the Legislature of Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 17 - a State with respect to one of the matters
 enumerated in the Concurrent List contains
 any provision repugnant to the provisions of
 an earlier law made by Parliament or an
 existing law with respect to that matter,
 then, the law so made by the Legislature of
 such State shall, if it has been reserved for
 the consideration of the President and has
 received his assent, prevail in that State. 12. Plainly understood Article 246 (1) of the Constitution, in

 effect, provides that the field of legislation, as contained in List-I would

 be exclusive. Meaning thereby, that if there were subjects within the

 field of legislation in List-I, which were also to be found in List-II and

 List-III as well, they would be excluded from List-II and List-III and

 would be fully contained in List-I. This is the principle of Parliamentary

 supremacy. Therefore, Parliamentary legislation is of superior efficacy. Article 246(2) of the Constitution then provides that subject to the field

 of legislation, as contained in List-I and notwithstanding the subject of

 field of legislation as contained in List-II, the field of legislation in

 respect of matters referred to List-III, the field of legislation in

 Concurrent List, would be exclusive. In other words, anything that is

 not covered by List-I and is covered in List-III would be excluded from

 List-II if it is to be found therein. Article 246 (3) then provides that in

 respect of maters in List-II, the field of legislation would be limited to

 the extent not covered by List-I or List-III. All this is of course subject

 to permissible incidental encroachments, not in pith and substance. Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 18 - These propositions are culmination of series of judgments of the Apex

 Court. 13. Now, coming to Article 254 , it refers to matters where the

 legislative field in respect of matters are available to both, the

 Parliament and the State Legislative, List-III of the 7th Schedule. Both

 have concurrent jurisdiction. Here again is the principle of Parliamentary

 supremacy, which can only be taken away by State legislation by

 complying with the requirements of Article 254(2) , i.e., presidential

 ascent otherwise Parliamentary legislation prevails. Seventh Schedule

 List II - State List 2. Police (including railway and vigilance
 police) subject to the provisions of entry 2-
 A of List I.

 List III - Concurrent List 2. Criminal Procedure, including all matters
 included in the Code of Criminal Procedure at the commencement of this Constitution. 14. Keeping this constitutional scheme in mind, Entry-2 List-

 III, the Concurrent List, we notice that it talks of "criminal procedure,

 including all matters included in the Cr.P.C ." The Code of Criminal

 Procedure is an expression nomen juris, as Code of Criminal Procedure existed at the time when Constitution was drafted. That Code of

 Criminal Procedure , i.e. Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 was then

 repealed and replaced by the present Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973. Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 19 - Thus seen, all the matters that have been dealt with and to the extent

 they are so dealt in the Code of Criminal Procedure would fall within the

 field of legislation covered by Entry-2 List-III, the Concurrent List,

 including the manner of establishment of Police Station. The moment it

 is so, then, by virtue of Article 246 (2) these matters stand excluded

 from any entry contained in List-II, the State List. Therefore, when

 Entry-2 of List-II talks of Police, the field of legislation available there-

 under would cover matters relating to "police", but not in relation to

 matters, which are covered by the Code of Criminal Procedure . Thus,

 any legislation by the State in respect of "police" by virtue of Entry-2

 List-II could not be with regard to Police Station or its establishments

 for these matters are covered by the Cr.P.C . In other words, the field of

 legislation in respect of "police" under Entry-2 List-II would be the

 police administration and its duties to the extent not covered by the Code of Criminal Procedure . Thus seen, Section 8 (1) of the Bihar

 Police Act would encroach upon the field of legislation reserved in

 Entry-2 List-III, the Concurrent List, and the Code of Criminal

 Procedure . This is not mere incidental encroachment. Accordingly,

 where, in contradiction to a mere declaration required to set up a Police

 Station in terms of Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C., the procedure as

 prescribed in Section 8 (1) of the Police Act, being a notification in the

 official gazette, this procedure would clearly be ultra vires the State‟s Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 20 - legislative competence. We have thus to read Section 8 (1) of the Bihar

 Police Act in harmony with Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C. and the

 expression "notification" used therein has to be read down as

 "declaration" by the State. As noted above, the Legislature, while

 enacting the Parliamentary legislation, being conscious of the import of

 the expression "notification", which is defined in Section 2 (m) of the

 Code, deliberately omitted to use the same in Section 2 (s) of the

 Cr.P.C., the concept of "notification" in the official gazette cannot be

 introduced therein. 15. Looked in a different manner, the result would be the same.

 The Code of Criminal Procedure , as noted above, is a Parliamentary

 legislation, with respect to the field of legislation covered by Entry-2

 List-III, the Concurrent List. The State Legislature is not denuded of its

 legislative power in respect of matters in the Concurrent List and,

 therefore, it has legislative competence to enact laws in respect of

 matters covered in the Concurrent List, which includes Code of Criminal

 Procedure . But, if the field of legislation has been occupied by a central

 legislation, in the present case, Code of Criminal Procedure , then for the

 State legislation covering the same field to be valid, it has to comply

 with Article 254 (2) of the Constitution for it to be valid. The State

 Legislature was competent to amend Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C. either

 directly or impliedly, but the validity of the State legislation would Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 21 - depend on the fact whether the legislation was reserved for the assent of

 the President and received his assent in terms of Article 254 (2) , in

 absence whereof the State legislation would be void. In the present case,

 what the State has done by Section 8 (1) of the Bihar Act is, it had tried

 to encroach upon the field of setting up of police station covered by the

 central legislation by virtue of Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C. but, while

 doing so, it did not refer the matter for the consideration of the President

 nor did its legislative action receive the assent of the President. Thus, Section 8 (1) of the Act to the extent, it provides for a "notification"

 instead of a "declaration" cannot be said to be a valid piece of legislation

 to that extent. 16. Here, I may refer to the Constitution Bench judgment of

 the Apex Court in the case of State of Orissa Vs. M.A. Tulloch &

 Company since reported in AIR 1964 Supreme Court 1284 and, in

 particular, what is held in paragraph-15 thereof, is being quoted

 hereunder: two statutes, but by the mere existence of
 the two pieces of legislation.... 17. Some what nearer to the present controversy is the

 Constitution Bench judgment in the case of Lalita Kumari Vs.

 Government of Uttar Pradesh and others since reported in (2014) 2

 Supreme Court Cases 1 and this what their Lordships observed in

 paragraphs 68, 69 and 70 of the reports, quoted hereunder, which, in my

 view, settles the position, I have indicated above. 68. In view of the above, it is useful to point
 out that the Code was enacted under Entry 2
 of the Concurrent List of the Seventh
 Schedule to the Constitution which
 reproduced below: On the other hand, the Police Act, 1861 (or
 other similar Acts in respective States) were
 enacted under Entry 2 of the State List of
 the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution,
 which is reproduced below: 69. Now, at this juncture, it is pertinent to
 refer to Article 254 (1) of the Constitution,
 which lays down the provisions relating to
 inconsistencies between the laws made by
 Parliament and the State Legislatures. Article 254 (1) is reproduced as under: Thus, it is clear from the mandate of Article
 254 (1) of the Constitution that if there is
 any inconsistency between the provisions of
 the Code and the Police Act, 1861 , the
 provisions of the Code will prevail and the
 provisions of the Police Act would be void
 to the extent of the repugnancy. 70. If at all, there is any inconsistency in the
 provisions of Section 154 of the Code and Section 44 of the Police Act, 1861, with
 regard to the fact as to whether the FIR is to
 be registered in the FIR book or in the
 General Diary, the provisions of Section
 154 of the Code will prevail and the
 provisions of Section 44 of the Police Act,
 1861 (or similar provisions of the respective
 corresponding Police Act or Rules in other
 respective States) shall be void to the extent
 of the repugnancy. Thus, FIR is to be
 recorded in the FIR book, as mandated
 under Section 154 of the Code, and it is not
 correct to state that information will be first
 recorded in the General Diary and only after
 preliminary inquiry, if required, the
 information will be registered as FIR. 18. It is for this reason, in my view, that the opinion of the then

 Hon‟ble the Chief Justice cannot be accepted, where he has categorically

 held that after the Bihar Act, the police station could only be set up in Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 24 - accordance with Section 8 (1) of the Act thereof by a notification and

 only after taking into account the factors mentioned there in and not

 otherwise. In my view, Section 8 (1) of the Act has to be read down

 harmoniously to bring in conformity with Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C. I

 find and hold accordingly. 19. In view of the aforesaid, the argument of the writ petitioners

 that creation or setting up of Economic Offences Police Station, having

 not been notified in the official gazette with effect from 15.12.2011, it

 cannot be said to have been established, in absence of the notification in

 the official gazette, cannot be sustained. 20. At this stage itself, I may notice another argument of the writ

 petitioners, which apparently found favour with the then Hon‟ble the

 Chief Justice in his opinion. According to them, the Bihar Police Act laid down conditions and parameters for declaration of Police Station.

 These are contained in Sections 8, 9 and 41 of the Bihar Act and these

 would control and qualify the exercise of discretion, as conferred on the

 State Government by the Parliamentary legislation, as contained in the

 Cr.P.C. and particularly Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C. For the reasons

 discussed above, when the Parliamentary legislation gives discretion to

 the State to declare a police station, either generally or specially, and the

 said Code, being referable to the legislative field, as contained in Entry-2

 List-III of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution, the same cannot be Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 25 - controlled or whittled down by the State legislature legislating with

 respect to field covered by Entry-2 List-II of the 7th Schedule to the

 Constitution and any such exercise by the State Legislature would have

 to be read down, to be brought in conformity to the parameters as

 specified in Section 2 (s) and other provisions of the Cr.P.C . The

 Parliamentary legislation in respect of matters, as provided in the

 Concurrent List, cannot be controlled or whittled down by the State

 Legislature either in exercise of the field available to it under the State

 List or even in exercise of the field of legislation available to it under the

 Concurrent List, except when such State legislation, in terms of Article

 254 (2) of the Constitution, is reserved for the consideration and assent

 of the President and has received the same. That being so, the exercise

 carried out by the State and its validity has to be judged with reference

 to Section 2 (s) and other Sections of the Cr.P.C . and not the Bihar Act. 21. Now, I may refer to the facts leading to declaration and

 establishment of "Economic Offence Police Station". On 20.11.2008,

 the Director General of Police, Bihar vide letter no.1477 requested the

 Special Secretary, Home (Police), Department, Government of Bihar for

 sanction of post for creation of Economic and Cyber Crime Unit under

 the Criminal Investigation Department. The request was considered in

 the meeting of the Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary (Personnel),

 Principal Secretary (Finance) and the Development Commissioner and, Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 26 - accordingly, various posts for the economic and cyber crime unit, which

 were created, were sanctioned on 17.02.2010. The creation of the unit

 and the posts in relation thereto were then on 30.03.2010 approved and

 sanctioned by the State Cabinet, as per Item No.10 of the said Cabinet

 meeting. Upon the approval of the State Cabinet, as aforesaid, on

 30.04.2010, the Department of Home (Police), Government of Bihar

 vide memo no.3579 informed the Accountant General, Bihar in respect

 to the said decision clearly pointing out that Cabinet approval had been

 received for the same. Accordingly, the Economic Offence and Cyber

 Crime Unit under the Criminal Investigation Department started

 functioning. 22. On 25.10.2011, the Director General of Police then wrote

 to the Secretary, Department of Home (Police), Government of Bihar

 pointing out that in view of development in the economic activities in

 the State, there had been noticeable change in the pattern of economic

 offences. The beneficial schemes of the State Government in which

 there were increased financial implications, organized economic

 offences were increasing, affecting the balance and development. Bank

 frauds, counterfeit notes smuggling and the narcotic and drugs

 smuggling was rising. The State intended to give priority for control of

 this menace and, as such, it was decided that under the direct control of

 Director General of Police, Bihar an "economic offence unit" be created Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 27 - with its jurisdiction extending to whole of State of Bihar to take up

 investigations of economic offences. For this, various budgetary

 allocations, posts had been sanctioned. A headquarter needed to be

 established in government premises, which in the beginning till

 sanctioned to be made, will be located in rental accommodation. These

 be sanctioned accordingly. It was specifically pointed out, that to make

 the unit more effective, the unit should be converted into an Economic

 Offence Police Station having jurisdiction over the entire State.

 Thereafter, by letter no.106 dated 25.10.2011, the Director General of

 Police, Bihar wrote to the Secretary, Department of Home (Police),

 Government of Bihar clearly pointing out that creation of an Economic

 Police Station was required and, therefore, recommended that the office

 of the Superintendent of Police, Economic Offence Unit, Bihar, Patna be

 declared as the Economic Offence Police Station, which would exercise

 jurisdiction throughout the State of Bihar. 23. Having received the same, the matter appears to have been

 considered by the government and having received the approval of the

 Secretary, Department of Home (Police) office order was issued on

 01.12.2011, clearly stating that on review of the position by the State

 Government in respect of necessity to control economic offences, the

 Economic Offence Unit is established whose jurisdiction would be entire

 State of Bihar. It would investigate all or any economic offences. It Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 28 - pointed out that Economic Offence Police Station would also exercise

 jurisdiction in respect of Food Department, cyber crime as well Co-

 operative Department under the direct control of the Director General of

 Police Vigilance Unit and such other unit would also be under its

 jurisdiction. It would operate from rented premises till its own premises

 are created. Thereafter, the decision of the State Government to create

 the Economic Offence Police Station was communicated to the

 Accountant General vide communication dated 15.12.2011, clearly

 stating that the State Government, having reviewed the situation, had

 taken a decision granting approval to convert the Economic Offence

 Unit into an Economic Offence Police Station to deal with economic

 offences and cyber crime offences. It would have jurisdiction over the

 entire State of Bihar. 24. It may be relevant to notice that these decisions, i.e. the

 order dated 01.12.2011 and the communication dated 15.12.2011, were

 duly sent to apart from others the IT Manager, Home Department for

 being uploaded on the government website. Accordingly, the Economic

 Offence Police Station, upon the aforesaid declaration, became

 functional. Cases were registered at the Economic Offence Police

 Station and various other cases were taken up for investigation. In some

 cases, upon completion of investigation, final reports were filed sending

 up various people for trial. Trials were taken up which has resulted on Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 29 - conviction of some of the persons and several trials are pending

 involving public servants and others including some of the petitioners. 25. It appears that some of the persons then sought information,

 whether the Economic Offence Police Station had been notified in the

 official gazette and this question was raised in certain writ petitions filed

 in this Court as well. Apparently and obviously, by way of abundant

 caution, the State Government then decided to notify the creation of

 Economic Offence Police Station by gazette notification dated

 25.03.2013, published in gazette on 26.03.2013, clearly stating that in

 exercise of powers under Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C., State Government

 declares the Economic Offence Police Station, as referred to in the

 Home (Police) Department sanction order dated 15.12.2011. It would

 exercise jurisdiction for the whole of the State of Bihar and would

 investigate cases which have been taken over or which are to be taken

 over by the Economic Offences Unit. It would be effective

 retrospectively with effect from 15.12.2011. 26. Based on these sequences of events and facts, on behalf

 of the writ petitioners, it is submitted that undisputedly there was no

 gazette notification issued in respect of Economic Offence Police Station

 prior to 26.03.2013, which was mandatory requirement as per Section 8

 (1) of the Bihar Police Act, 2007. That being so any action taken prior

 thereto including, all F.I.R. registered and investigations taken up or Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 30 - actions taken in furtherance thereto including charge-sheets filed trials

 undertaken would stand vitiated. This was rank illegality and not mere

 irregularity. Their further submission would be that there could no

 retrospective validation of an illegal Act, as an illegal Act cannot be

 ratified. The last submission, which has already been noted and

 rejected, was that Economic Offence Police Station could only be

 created in terms of State legislation, i.e. the Bihar Police Act and that not

 having been done, the exercise of powers with reference to Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C. was an exercise in futility. 27. As noted earlier, Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior

 Counsel appearing for the State of Bihar, submitted that under the

 constitutional scheme, as noted earlier in this judgment, what was

 required was compliance to the provision of Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C.

 and a declaration having been made and the same having been put on the

 website and communicated to various authorities, there was sufficient

 compliance of the provisions of Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C., which could

 not be whittled down or controlled by the State Act. I have already noted

 this part and accepted the submission of the State. 28. The only issue left is, whether this exercise done by the

 State would amount to valid declaration within the meaning of Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C . I see no reason to hold otherwise. Section 2 (s) of the

 Cr.P.C. clearly confers jurisdiction upon the State to make a declaration Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 31 - either generally or specifically in relation to creation of a Police Station.

 It is purely an administrative act and the consequences which follow are

 stipulated in the Cr.P.C . itself. The order of the State Government dated

 01.12.2011 read with that of 15.12.2011 is a clear declaration in terms of Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C. It is not denied that these decisions were

 taken by the Secretary, Department of Home (Police), Government of

 Bihar, who under the Rules of the Executive Business of the State of

 Bihar, was competent to take. Both these decisions were put on the

 website of the State Government and accessible to public at large. As

 already held that there is no requirement in law that such a Police Station

 can only be created by a gazette notification. That being so, the

 requirements of Section 2 (s) of the Cr.P.C. having been complied, it is

 futile on the part of the writ petitioners to urge that Economic Offence

 Police Station was not legally established with effect from 15.12.2011,

 when the decision was communicated to other persons, departments and

 on the website, and once the order was sent out, it became a final

 order/decision of the government. No doubt, it would have been better

 if they were notified in the official gazette, but as already indicated that,

 not being requirement of law and the requirement of law being mere

 declaration and that having been complied with, the establishment of

 Economic Offence Police Station cannot be questioned. 29. Needless to say that it is not a rank illegality, for, in my Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 32 - view, it is not even an irregularity, for the compliance of law being

 there, no objections could be taken by the writ petitioners. Moreover, it

 is well settled even otherwise that an irregularity in investigation would

 not vitiate the trials unless serious prejudice is shown by the writ

 petitioners. The writ petitioners do not have the liberty of choice of

 investigating agency, which is the prerogative of the State, in its

 sovereign function to control and investigate criminal offences and

 ensure prosecution of the offenders. 30. In the first case, i.e., Cr.W.J.C. No.563 of 2013, Md.

 Yunus, an Enforcement Sub Inspector Transport, posted at Kaimur is

 being prosecuted for having disproportionate assets, disproportionate to

 his known sources of income, Economic Offence Police Station Case

 No.5 of 2013 (Special Case No.3 of 2013) registered on 19.02.2013 for

 the offences under Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (e) of the

 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. 31. In the second case, i.e., Cr.W.J.C. No.231 of 2016 Md.

 Kamal Ashraf and others are being prosecuted. Md. Kamal Ashraf was

 appointed as Sub Registrar in the year 1987 and, at the relevant time,

 was posted as District Sub Registrar, Bhagalpur. He and his relations

 are being prosecuted in respect of Economic Offence Police Station

 Case No.23 of 2013 dated 18.06.2013 (Special Case No.33 of 2013)

 registered under Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (e) of the Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 33 - Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . 32. In the third case, i.e., Cr.W.J.C. No.353 of 2015, the

 petitioner is being prosecuted in Economic Offence Police Station Case

 No.2 of 2013 (Special Case No.5 of 2013), instituted on 19.01.2013, for

 offences under Sections 378 / 389 / 109 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 8 and 9 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Petitioner,

 though not named in the F.I.R., has subsequently been charged in the

 said case upon trap laid for demand and acceptance of bribe. 33. In the fourth case, i.e., C.W.J.C. No.1219 of 2016, the

 petitioner is being prosecuted in relation to Economic Offence Police

 Station Case No.23 of 2012, registered on 20.10.2012, instituted for the

 offences under Sections 420 , 416 , 478 and 120-B of the Indian Penal

 Code. Petitioner was not originally named in the F.I.R. but, in course of

 investigation, his name having been figured, is being charged in the said

 case. 34. In the fifth case, i.e., C.W.J.C. No.6660 of 2016, the

 petitioner is an I.P.S. Officer of the Cadre of Jammu and Kashmir and

 was, at the relevant time, D.I.G., Saran Division, at Chapra. He is being

 prosecuted in relation to Economic Offence Police Station Case No.2 of

 2013 instituted on 19.01.2013 along with the petitioner in the third case.

 It may be stated that though initially the petitioner was not named in the

 F.I.R. as accused but in course of investigation he has now been roped in Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.563 of 2013 (53) dt.08-03-2017 - 34 - the case. 35. All these petitioners, being prosecuted pursuant to

 F.I.Rs. registered with the Economic Offence Police Station, challenge

 the registration of F.I.R., investigation and their prosecution on the

 ground, as noticed above, i.e., the Economic Offence Police Station not

 having been duly established, all proceedings based on the F.I.R., so

 registered wrongly, are consequently vitiated. This being the primal

 challenge and having been negatived, as above, all the writ petitions fail

 and, in my opinion, rightly held so by brother Justice Chakradhari

 Sharan Singh. I agree with the views of brother Justice Chakradhari

 Sharan Singh and would commend it. Accordingly, all the writ petitions

 are dismissed. 36. The reference is answered accordingly. (Navaniti Prasad Singh, J.)
Trivedi/-