This is an appeal under Section 96 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter „ CPC ‟) challenging the validity of the
 impugned judgment and decree dated 07.05.2019 and 16.05.2019,
 respectively, passed by the learned Additional District Judge in CS
 (OS) No. 575890/2016 titled as Shri Durga Dass Bansal & Anr v.
 Smt. Seema Bansal & Anr. , whereby, the suit for possession,
 recovery of mesne profits and injunction has been decreed in favor of
 respondent nos. 1 and 2. BRIEF FACTS 2. The respondent decree holders are parents-in-law of the
 appellant, and they hold decree against both their son and daughter-in-
 law in the suit, wherein, the son was arraigned as defendant no.2 and
 daughter-in-law was arraigned as defendant no.1. The appellant herein
 is the daughter-in-law of the decree holders. 3. The facts necessary for deciding the controversy at hand would
 exhibit that the appellant and her husband, i.e. respondent no.3,
 solemnized their marriage on 10.07.2000 and two children were born
 out of the wedlock. The elder daughter of the appellant was born in the Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV -3- year 2001 and in the year 2005, the younger son was born. The
 relationship was tumultuous since inception and multiple proceedings
 in various fora were initiated by the parties against each other. 4. On 07.06.2014, a civil suit for eviction was filed by respondent
 nos.1 and 2 for eviction of the appellant along with her husband. The
 said suit was decreed in favour of respondent nos.1 and 2 herein by the
 impugned judgment and decree as respondent nos.1 and 2 were found
 to be sole and exclusive owners of the suit property in the absence of
 any Hindu Undivided Family (hereinafter „HUF‟). 5. Being aggrieved by the passing of the impugned judgment and
 decree, the appellant has preferred the instant appeal. SUBMISSIONS 6. Ms. Aditi Gupta, learned counsel for the appellant submitted
 that based on a reading of Section 17 of the Domestic Violence Act,
 2005 (hereinafter „ DV Act ‟), the appellant is in a „domestic
 relationship‟, residing in the suit property since the inception of her
 marriage and by virtue of the „domestic relationship‟ arising from a
 solemnized marriage, the appellant is entitled to a "shared
 household". 7. Based on a reading of the provisions of the DV Act , it is to be
 understood that a "shared household" arises by virtue of a "domestic
 relationship". Learned counsel referred to the following provisions of
 the DV Act :- 8. She further submitted that the impugned order directs eviction
 of the appellant solely by considering the appellant as a regular
 licensee who can be evicted by a mere revocation of the license and
 the learned Trial Court has miserably failed to consider the statutory
 rights of the appellant under the provisions of the DV Act . She
 contended that as long as the marriage subsists, the appellant cannot
 be evicted on the pretext of being termed as a mere licensee in view of
 the matrimonial relationship and the "shared household". 9. To substantiate her position, she placed reliance on the decision
 rendered by the Supreme Court in the case of Prabha Tyagi v.
 Kamlesh Devi1 , wherein, it has been observed that every woman in a
 „domestic relationship‟, irrespective of whether she is an aggrieved
 person or not, has a right to reside in the shared household even in the 1 (2022) 8 SCC 9 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV -5- absence of any act of domestic violence. The relevant extract of the
 said decision is reproduced herein for reference:- 10. Ms. Gupta further submitted that since the appellant has a right
 to live in the "shared household" by virtue of her marriage, the suit
 property is the "shared household" and the appellant cannot be evicted
 except save in accordance with the procedure established by law. 11. She firstly submitted that the suit property is a "shared
 household" by virtue of the property being owned in the nature of
 HUF and by virtue of such HUF holding, the appellant also has an
 ownership right in the household. She contended that the suit property
 was inherited by way of acquisition through proceeds of an ancestral
 property. 12. Without prejudice to the first contention, she maintains that
 even if the property is not owned under the HUF and the appellant
 does not have title over the suit property, she is protected by the
 decision in Prabha Tyagi (supra), wherein, the Supreme Court has
 observed that the expression "joint family" cannot mean to be
 understood in the strict confines of Hindu Law, rather the same is
 applicable to every woman in India irrespective of her religious
 affiliation and/or social background. 13. She further placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Ambika Jain v. Ram Prakash Sharma2 , to contend that the right to
 shelter is one of the most essential rights which has to be extended to a
 helpless wife, irrespective of the fact that she bears any title or interest
 in the said household. 14. Assailing the impugned order, the learned counsel for the
 appellant asserted that this Court in Ambika Jain (supra) has held that
 as per the provisions of the DV Act , an aggrieved person may be
 evicted only by "procedure established by law". A decree of a Trial
 Court decided solely on the basis of "title documents" which fails to
 consider the statutory right of residence granted under the DV Act is
 not to be considered as an eviction as per "procedure established by
 law". 15. The second limb of the argument raised by the appellant is that
 the suit for eviction against her is filed under collusion and wholly
 against the provisions of the DV Act . To support this assertion,
 learned counsel for the appellant has placed on record certain
 observations made by the learned Trial Court and a catena of
 precedents where tests for indicating collusion were illustrated. Furthermore, she asserts that the impugned civil suit, initiated by
 respondents nos. 1 and 2, in which the appellant and her husband were
 named as defendant nos.1 and 2, respectively, was a collusive action
 orchestrated by her in-laws and the husband. 16. According to the learned counsel, respondents nos.1 and 2, are
 seeking to execute the impugned judgment and decree against the
 appellant only and not against respondent no.3 i.e., her husband. She
 placed reliance on the observation of the learned A.D.J vide order
 dated 13.11.2018 in the impugned civil suit, wherein, the Trial Court
 had observed a scope of collusion based on the conflict in the assertion
 of the in-laws and the husband. The learned ADJ had noted that the
 husband of the appellant, i.e. respondent no.3, by way of affidavit had
 admitted that the rent receipts were prepared by him and despite the
 existence of rent receipts, no rent was paid. 17. Learned counsel further placed reliance on the decision in the
 case of Kavita Gambhir v. Harish Chand Gambhir & Anr3 , wherein,
 this Court has observed that the non-impleadment of husband of the
 appellant by in-laws is a fraud played by the respondents on the right
 of the daughter-in-law to reside in her matrimonial home. 18. The appellant seeks to rely on the indicators and tests provided
 in catena of judgments to indicate collusion on behalf of all the
 respondents. 19. Learned counsel further submitted that the appellant is a victim
 of domestic violence and a victim cannot be punished by being evicted
 or by being provided an alternate accommodation. 20. Thus, the principal contentions of the learned counsel for the
 appellant are that the appellant is a member of the joint family, the suit 3 (2009) 162 DLT 459 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV -8- property is a "shared household", the respondents are acting in
 collusion and seeking to evict her and lastly, given that the learned
 Trial Court has not considered the rights of the appellant under the DV
 Act , her right to be evicted only in accordance with the "procedure
 established by law" is violated. 21. Per contra, Mr. Pratyush Chiranjan, learned counsel appearing
 for the respondents, vehemently opposed the aforenoted submissions
 and contended that the suit property does not fall under the category of
 "shared household" on multiple grounds. The primary contention
 raised by the learned counsel was that the appellant was only a
 "permissive user" by virtue of the license and once the license is
 revoked, the petitioner must vacate the said premises. 22. Refuting the contention of the appellant on her right to claim a
 "shared household" by virtue of a subsisting marriage, learned counsel
 for the respondents placed reliance on the decision in the case of Smt.
 Saraswati Devi v. Sh. Ganga Ram Sharma & Anr4 to contend that in
 the absence of a complaint under DV Act , the said provisions do not
 apply and the question of "shared household" does not arise. The
 relevant extract relied upon by the learned counsel is reproduced as
 under:- 23. Learned counsel also placed reliance on the decision in the case
 of Smt Darshana v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi & Ors.5 , wherein, this
 Court has observed that when the daughter-in-law has no right, title
 and interest in the premises, she cannot insist on residing in the suit
 property, especially in view of a deteriorated relationship between the
 parties. He further relied on the decision rendered in Sunny Paul v.
 State of NCT of Delhi & Ors.6 , wherein, two male children were
 evicted for physical cruelty against their elderly parents. 24. Learned counsel further placed on record a copy of the W.P.
 (Crl.) 1312/2013 alleging occurrence of physical cruelty, wherein, he
 submitted that this Court has earlier granted liberty to the respondents
 to seek protection from the concerned Station House Officer (SHO). 25. Countering the submissions of the appellant on the assertion
 that the property is an HUF property, learned counsel for the
 respondents relied upon the decision in Shanti Sarup Dewan v. UT,
 Chandigarh7 , wherein, it was held that in order to establish that a
 property belongs to a joint family, it must be conclusively established
 that the joint family had sufficient nucleus under Hindu law at the time
 of acquisition of the said property and in the absence of a conclusive
 determination that the property belongs to a "joint family", the right to
 reside in a "shared household" does not arise. 26. Furthermore, learned counsel for the respondents seeks to infer
 through facts that it took over five years for respondent no.1 to 5 2018 SCC OnLine Del 11641 6 2017 SCC OnLine Del 7451 7 2013 SCC OnLine P&H 20369 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV - 10 - complete the construction of the house from the date of acqusition of
 the suit property land and such a long period of construction is
 indicative of house being constructed through self-acquired means. 27. Responding to the allegations of collusion, learned counsel for
 the respondents submitted that respondent no.3 has already vacated the
 said premises and is currently residing in another location. Based on
 the assertion that respondent no.3 is residing in a different location and
 the marriage still subsists with the husband of the appellant, being still
 alive, he indicates that any relief for
 residence/accommodation/maintenance to the appellant should be
 directed against her husband and not her in-laws. 28. Learned counsel further laid down emphasis on the
 license/permissive user theory and asserted that the son has already
 vacated the premises post revocation of the license and the daughter-
 in-law is not ready to vacate. He submitted that the appellant has been
 provided multiple properties as alternate accommodation and has been
 offered to choose an alternate reasonable accommodation of her own
 choice, but she is not vacating the suit property. 29. In his oral submissions, learned counsel for the respondents
 pleaded that the respondents are ready to pay advance rent of two
 years for the property chosen by the appellant for her alternate
 accommodation. He further affirms that the son of respondent nos.1
 and 2 has already been disowned and is residing elsewhere owing to
 eviction and acrimonious relationship in general. 30. I have heard the learned counsels appearing on behalf of the
 parties and have perused the record. 31. The appellant seeks to assail the impugned judgment and
 decree, inter alia, on the ground that the learned Trial Court has erred
 in ignoring that the suit property is a "shared household" and is being
 used jointly by all the parties therein. The appellant further avers that
 she had come to the suit property in her marriage procession-"Doli"
 and the said suit property was being jointly used by all the parties
 including both respondent nos.1 and 2 and their children i.e.,
 respondent no. 3 herein, the son of respondent nos.1 and 2 and the
 husband of the appellant. 32. In light of the rival contentions advanced by the parties and in
 light of the impugned judgment and decree would show that the
 primary issue which falls for consideration in the present Regular First
 Appeal pertains to whether the entitlement of the appellant to reside in
 the respondents‟ property emanates from her status of a
 licensee/permissive user which is terminable on revocation of the
 license, or she is entitled to reside in the suit property by virtue of her
 status as the daughter in law of the respondents and the suit property
 being a "shared household" by virtue of her marriage. The appellant
 has raised this specific contention in her written statement to the plaint
 before the learned Trial Court, however, the said issue was not framed,
 or considered by the Court while deciding the suit in question. The
 learned Trial Court has held that the appellant is only a permissive
 user and the license to stay is deemed to be revoked by virtue of the
 civil suit for eviction filed by the respondents. 33. Before adverting to the merits of the case at hand, the Court
 deems it significant to refer to the case of Malluru Mallappa v. Kuruvathappa8 to get a flavour of law relating to the scope of a first
 appeal under Section 96 of the CPC. In the said case, the Supreme
 Court noted that the expression "appeal" has not been defined in CPC . Black's Law Dictionary (7th Edn.) defines an appeal as "a
 proceeding undertaken to have a decision reconsidered by bringing it
 to a higher authority". Perhaps, it is a judicial examination of the
 decision by a higher court of the decision of a subordinate court to
 rectify any possible error in the order under appeal. 34. Further, reliance is placed on the decision in the case of Hari
 Shankar v. Rao Girdhari Lal Chowdhury9 , wherein, it was observed
 that a first appeal carries with itself a right of rehearing on law as well
 as on facts. Thus, it is a settled position of law that an appeal is a
 continuation of the proceedings of the original court and thus, the first
 appellate court is required to address itself on all the issues and decide
 the case by giving reasons. The court of first appeal must record its
 findings only after dealing with all the issues of law as well as fact and
 with the evidence, oral as well as documentary, led by the parties. The
 judgment of the first appellate court must display conscious
 application of mind and record findings supported by reasons on all
 issues and contentions. [See: Santosh Hazari v. Purushottam
 Tiwari10 , Madhukar v. Sangram11 , B.M. Narayana
 Gowda v. Shanthamma12 , H.K.N. Swami v. Irshad Basith13 and Sri
 Raja Lakshmi Dyeing Works v. Rangaswamy Chettiar14 ] 8 (2020) 4 SCC 313 9 AIR 1963 SC 698 10 (2001) 3 SCC 179 11 2001) 4 SCC 756 12 (2011) 15 SCC 476 13 (2005) 10 SCC 243 14 (1980) 4 SCC 259 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV - 13 - 35. Accordingly, most of the things which may be undertaken by
 the Trial Court may also be undertaken in the Regular First Appeal,
 including but not limited to determing a case, remanding a case,
 framing issues and referring them to trial, to take on record or to direct
 to take on record additional evidence. In light of the scope of a first
 appeal, as delineated in Section 96 and Section 107 of the CPC, this
 Court deems it fit to determine the case. 36. Having briefly traversed through the scope of Regular First
 Appeal, the Court now proceeds to consider the issues raised in the
 present appeal on merits. 37. On the question of whether the suit property is an HUF or self
 acquired, the arguments advanced have been considered. The
 appellant has not placed any document or evidence on record which
 indicates that the suit property is self acquired. It was contended by
 the appellant that the suit property may have been self acquired, but
 the acquisition was done through the proceeds of sale of a property
 acquired by the father of respondent no.1. Moreover, learned counsel
 for the appellant seeks to argue that there are no salary statements or
 proof indicating income in favour of the respondent no.1 so as to
 acquire the said property. Thus, in essence, learned counsel has sought
 to argue that the property is HUF by virtue of its acquisition out of
 proceeds of ancestrally inherited wealth. Against this position, the
 respondents have produced on record a conveyance deed in favour of
 respondent no.1 indicating self acquisition. The oral argument of the
 respondents that the house on the suit property was constructed over a
 period of 5 years and thus, the construction was done through the
 income earned by respondent no.1 is also considered. Moreover, the
 learned counsel for the respondents relied on Gulab Singh v. Dal Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV - 14 - Chand Lowadia15, wherein, this Court held that HUF is a specific
 creation of law which comes into being when a member throws
 property into common hotch-potch or if the property is inherited by a
 male from his parental ancestors before passing of the Hindu
 Succession Act, 1956 . In view of the unquestioned conveyance deed
 in favour of the respondents and lack of any evidence led by the
 appellant in support of the assertion that the property is a HUF, the
 appellant has not satisfied the Court as to how the suit property could
 be categorised as being held by an HUF. Thus, the Court deems it fit
 to uphold the view of the learned Trial Court on the ownership of the
 suit property. JOINT FAMILY UNDER THE DV ACT 38. Given that the suit property is presumed to be self-acquired, the
 next question which falls for consideration is whether the daughter-in-
 law has a right to "shared household" in a property self-acquired by
 respondent no.1/father-in-law. . In order to answer this issue, the
 phrase "joint family", as used in the DV Act must be understood in its
 unique context. In the considered opinion of the Court, the expression
 "joint family" under the DV Act cannot be construed to carry the
 same meaning as understood in Hindu Law. Rather, the expression is
 used in a sui generis legislation which is applicable to every woman in
 India irrespective of her religious affiliation and/or social background
 as held in Prabha Tyagi (supra). The relevant portion of the said
 decision is extracted as under:- 39. Thus, the test to determine whether an aggrieved person is a
 part of the joint family is to see whether the said person resides or has
 been residing jointly with the other members of the family in a shared
 household and in a manner which is indicative of a domestic
 relationship, irrespective of any title or interest in the property.
 Undeniably, the appellant is a member of the "joint family" under the DV Act irrespective of whether the household is a HUF or a self-
 acquired property held by any of the respondents and thus, cannot be
 excluded from the "shared household" except in accordance with the
 procedure established by law. 40. The next question for consideration is, whether the appellant is
 protected by the provisions of the DV Act . That no complaint under
 the DV Act has been filed is the source of this query. Admittedly, the
 learned counsel for the parties have submitted that there exists no
 complaint on record against the respondents under the DV Act . The
 learned counsel for the appellant has placed on record multiple
 complaint letters addressed to the SHO alleging violence, cruelty and
 harassment. However, it is seen that in the case of the appellant, the
 complaints to the SHO were not proceeded further and no action was
 initiated based on those complaints. Learned counsel for the
 respondents submitted that in the absence of any action taken or
 prosecution initiated, mere complaints do not conclusively indicate
 proof of any cruelty or harassment. Learned counsel for the
 respondents indicated a direction passed in W.P. (Crl.) 1312/2013,
 wherein, the respondents filed a petition alleging cruelty. However, it
 is discernible that the said petition was dismissed as withdrawn and
 the directions of this Court in granting liberty to the respondents to
 seek protection from the concerned SHO could not be termed as a
 reflection on merits. Thus, nothing has been placed on record by either
 party which could conclusively determine infliction of any physical
 cruelty. 41. Based on this submission, the respondents have relied on the
 decision of Saraswati Devi (supra) to contend that in the absence of a
 complaint, the protections provided in the DV Act do not accrue and
 thus, provisions of the DV Act cannot be considered. However, the
 Court is of the opinion that the decision in Saraswati Devi (supra)
 primarily sought to balance the rights of both the parties therein, and Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV - 17 - eviction of the daughter-in-law was carried out under the complaint
 alleging violation of the provisions of The Maintenance and Welfare
 of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 . It is not a pronouncement on
 the proposition that a daughter-in-law cannot claim the right of
 residence/shared household merely because no proceedings were
 instituted under the DV Act . In furtherance, the decision of the Apex
 court in Prabha Tyagi (supra) affirms the right of every woman in a
 domestic relationship to reside in a shared household and observes that
 any woman, whether being a wife, daughter-in-law, sister or any other
 relationship, is entitled to a shared houseld by virture of a "domestic
 relationship". Any narrow view of the matter would be counter-
 productive and against the spirit of the welfare legislation i.e., DV
 Act . 42. Insofar as the decision in Sunny Paul (supra) is concerned,
 where the sons of the senior citizens were evicted for cruelty, the
 Court is of the opinion that none of the documents submitted by either
 party herein has conclusively determined an occurrence of physical
 cruelty. 43. On the aspect of eviction directed in Smt. Darshana (supra),
 wherein, a daughter-in-law was evicted, it is evidently seen that the
 factual matrix in the said case is distinct when compared to the case at
 hand by virtue of the divorce proceedings between the appellant
 daughter-in-law and her husband therein. In the current set of facts,
 there is nothing on record which would indicate that the matrimonial
 relationship has ceased to exist or divorce proceedings are underway.
 Moreover, in the present case, the appellant has not sought
 maintenance, compensation or any such relief to indicate that she Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV - 18 - seeks to end the matrimonial relationship. Thus , the said decision would be inapplicable in the given factual scenario. COLLUSION BETWEEN THE PARENTS-IN-LAW &
 HUSBAND 44. The next limb of the appellant‟s case is that respondent nos.1
 and 2 are in collusion with respondent no.3 and are only seeking to
 evict the appellant by not executing the eviction order against
 respondent no.3. 45. According to the appellant, the facts that need to be put to
 scrutiny are that the husband of the appellant i.e., respondent no.3 was
 earlier married to another individual and after the breakdown of the
 first marriage, respondent no.3 got married with the appellant on
 10.07.2000. The same remains to be an admitted fact by respondent
 nos.1 and no.2 herein as per the plaint filed in the impugned judgment
 and decree. 46. Furthermore, in his deposition, the plaintiff/respondent no.1 i.e.,
 the father-in-law of the appellant in proceedings dated 15.01.2018, in
 terms of question number 25, has admitted that vide a newspaper
 publication dated 08.07.1996, he has debarred his son from all
 movable and immovable properties. Post such debarment/disowning,
 respondent no.3 solemnized the marriage with the appellant herein and
 her doli had reached the suit property in possession of respondent no.1
 and respondent no.2. 47. In Kavita Gambhir v. Harish Chand Gambhir & Anr16 , this
 Court has observed that non-impleadment of the husband of the
 appellant by the in-laws is a fraud played by the respondents on the 16 (2009) 162 DLT 459 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV - 19 - right of the daughter-in-law to reside in her matrimonial home. The
 relevant paragraphs of the said decision are reproduced herein for
 reference:- The reason is because the wife has a very special
 position in the matrimonial home.................He is not
 entitled to tell her to go without seeing that she has a
 proper place to go..................................... 16. Their Lordships referred to and applied the dictum of
 Lord Greene, M.R., in Brown v. Draper, [1944] 1 All
 E.R. 246: [1944] K.B. 309, where the facts were
 somewhat similar. A husband was the tenant of a house
 on a weekly tenancy. As in this case, he left the house in
 a dispute with his wife, and his wife and child remained
 in occupation of the house with the use of his furniture
 and he continued to pay rent. He received notice to quit
 from the landlord and he then stopped paying the rent,
 but he did not revoke his leave to the wife to reside in the
 house nor did he remove his furniture. Later, the
 landlord brought proceedings against the wife for
 trespass and at the hearing, the husband, who was not
 made a party to the proceedings, gave evidence that he
 had no interest in the house. It was held by the Court of
 Appeal that the husband was still in possession of the
 house.....................................................................
 ............ 17. Applying the law propounded
 in Brown v. Draper (supra) and in Old Gate Estates
 Ltd. v. Alexander (supra), the Court of Appeal held
 in Middleton v. Baldock, [1950] 1 All England Law
 Reports 708 : 66 T.L.R. (Pt. 1) 650, that where a
 husband had deserted his wife and the wife remained in
 the matrimonial home, she was lawfully there and the
 husband remained in occupation through
 her................................ 33..........................Having been deserted by the
 tenant-husband, she cannot be deprived of the roof over
 her head where the tenant has conveniently left her to
 face the peril of eviction attributable to default or
 neglect of himself. We are inclined to hold--and we do
 so--that a deserted wife continuing in occupation of the
 premises obtained on lease by her husband, and which
 was their matrimonial home, occupies a position akin to
 that of an heir of the tenant-husband if the right to
 residence of such wife has not come to an end. The
 tenant having lost interest in protecting his tenancy
 rights as available to him under the law, the same right
 would devolve upon and inhere in the wife so long as she
 continues in occupation of the premises. Her rights and
 obligations shall not be higher or larger than those of Signature Not Verified the tenant himself. A suitable amendment inSignature the Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV - 22 - legislation is called for to that effect. And, so long as that
 is not done, we, responding to the demands of social and
 gender justice, need to mould the relief and do complete
 justice by exercising our jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution. We hasten to add that the purpose of
 our holding as above is to give the wife's right to
 residence a meaningful efficacy as dictated by the needs
 of the times; we do not intend nor do we propose the
 landlord's right to eviction against his tenant to be
 subordinated to wife's right to residence enforceable
 against her husband. Let both the rights co-exist so long
 as they can." (emphasis supplied) 23. This judgement of Supreme Court also supports the view
 which I have already taken that it is not necessary that if the
 husband settles down somewhere else after leaving the
 matrimonial home of his wife that house where the wife is left
 behind would cease to be her matrimonial home. So, unless the
 plaintiffs obtain a decree of possession against their son they
 cannot get back the possession from his wife and consequently it
 has to be held that this suit is liable to fail for non-joinder of a
 necessary party. It is well settled now that the defect of non-
 joinder of a necessary party is fatal. 48. It is imperative to observe that the husband may reside in
 multiple places as a tenant or licensee or in any capacity whatsoever
 and his wife shall automatically get the right to reside in such place as
 long as the jural relationship of husband-wife continues. This position
 by default does not indicate that both husband-wife must be staying in
 a particular house for it to be labelled as the matrimonial home of the
 wife. 49. Reliance can also be placed on the decision in the case of Shammi Nagpal v. Sudhir Nagpal17 , wherein, the Bombay High
 Court has observed that the expression „matrimonial home‟ would
 signify the domicile where persons live together actually or
 constructively, as man and wife. Moreover, assuming that respondent
 no.3 has actually left the premises as is the case of the respondent 17 2008 (5) Bom CR 149 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV - 23 - nos.1 to 3 and by virtue of respondent no.3 surrendering the house, he
 is not impleaded in the suit for execution of the decree for eviction,
 the caution sounded by the Court in Kavita Gambhir (supra) comes
 into effect. The Court, in Kavita Gambhir (supra) had applied the
 constructive possession theory and held that even if the husband in his
 physical capacity has vacated the suit property, it cannot be inferred
 that he had surrendered the possession of the property in his
 occupation to his parents, thereby resulting in cessation of that house
 as being the matrimonial home of the defendant. In actuality, he
 continues to be in occupation thereof through his wife whom he had
 brought to that house after marrying her and also through his children. 50. This Court in Kavita Gambhir (supra) placed reliance on the
 authoritative pronouncement in the case of B.P. Achala Anand v. S.
 Appi Reddy18 , wherein, the Supreme Court has held that a wife cannot
 be deprived of her residence when her tenant-husband has left his wife
 to the peril of eviction and held that a deserted wife and her children
 living in her matrimonial home occupy a position akin to that of an
 heir of the tenant-husband as long as the matrimonial relationship
 exists. The existence of matrimonial relationship and constructive or
 actual possession of the matrimonial home are essential ingredients in
 an inquiry of this nature. And above all, the Court must approach such
 issues with a robust common sensical approach by being alive to the
 societal realities and common course of natural events. The right to a
 household, accruing in favour of the wife by virtue of the DV Act or
 otherwise, is a reflection of the cherished fundamental right to human
 dignity, which forms part of the golden principles of the Constitution.
 Therefore, the standard of deprivation must be a high standard. 51. In the given facts, it was admitted by respondent no.1 in his
 deposition that he has disowned his son earlier. Interestingly, such
 "disowning" did not act as a legal bar in taking the son back and
 getting him married to the appellant in the same suit property and
 subsequently publishing another advertisement of disowning. 52. Considering the factual matrix in the aforecited case, the Court
 observes that the strategy of "disowning" sons, as done twice by the
 respondent herein, does not have a dispositive legal effect of breaking
 all legal ties. Per se, it could not be made the basis to deprive a wife
 from living in her matrimonial home, especially when the said home
 was the place where she actually started living after marriage.
 Moreover, in the event of death of the parents, the property of the
 parents would by default devolve on the son/sons so disowned. Thus,
 in the absence of a deed of relinquishment or other formal deed of
 partition of the family or separation between the members, it has been
 observed that such "disowning" is a fraud and the Courts should be
 cautious in denying statutory rights to wives on the basis of such
 practices. 53. In Roma Rajesh Tiwari v. Rajesh Dinanath Tiwari19 , the
 Bombay High Court has observed that when the husband asserts that
 he has left the suit property and is residing elsewhere, such assertion
 has to be substantiated. It was further observed that it has become a
 routine defence taken by the husbands that they have shifted the
 residence. 54. Even in the current set of facts, there is nothing authoritative
 placed on record to show that respondent no.3 has shifted his
 residence. In Roma Rajesh Tiwari (supra), the Court observed with
 regard to the veracity of the claim of the husband vacating the house
 that "Not a single document to that effect is produced on record to
 show that he has taken those premises in New Bombay on rent or he
 has purchased them. Neither the Ration Card, Electricity Bill, Gas Bill
 etc., not an iota of document is produced on record to show that he
 has shifted his residence. Therefore, it is clear that, this ploy is
 adopted by the respondent just to deprive the appellant from her
 rightful claim to reside in the „shared household‟." 55. In the given facts, neither the husband of the appellant nor her
 in-laws have brought anything on record to substantiate the claim that
 the husband vacated the suit property. Infact, the counsel for the
 respondents has argued that the husband of the appellant occasionally
 visits the suit property to meet his children. Furthermore, in view of
 the Supreme Court‟s decision in B.P. Achala Anand (supra), the
 husband is deemed to continue to stay in the suit property by virtue of
 his legally wedded wife and children continuing to stay in the suit
 property. 56. Furthermore, the learned Trial Court has opined the possibility
 of collusion between the husband and in-laws, based on the statement
 of the husband of the appellant through an affidavit on the payment of
 rent and the actual purpose of rent receipts. Therefore, the possibility
 of collusion between respondent no.3 and respondent nos.1 and 2
 cannot be ruled out. 57. In light of the determination of collusion between respondent
 nos.1 and 2 with respondent no.3, the conventional practice, as Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV - 26 - established through a catena of judgments including Vinay Varma v.
 Kanika Pasricha20 , is to provide an alternative reasonable
 accommodation to the daughter-in-law. The responsibility/liability for
 maintenance of the alternate accommodation is incident upon both the
 in-laws and the husband jointly and severally, especially if they were
 living as part of a joint family. In Vinay Varma (supra), this Court
 further observed that in such cases of collusion between respondents,
 the son i.e. the husband, either simply does not appear in the
 proceedings or refuses/fails to provide maintenance to the wife. PROCEDURE ESTABLISHED BY LAW 58. The next question for consideration is, whether the appellant
 has been evicted in accordance with the procedure established by law. 59. It has already been observed that no conclusive determination of
 violation of either the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior
 Citizens Act, 2007 or the DV Act could be arrived at on the basis of
 mere complaints and legal actions taken by both the parties. The
 purported complaints or proceedings have either not been investigated
 or were dismissed as withdrawn. 60. On the question of whether the statutory rights of the appellant
 were violated through the order of eviction, the rival submissions have
 been made on balancing The Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and
 Senior Citizens Act, 2007 and the DV Act . The primary contention is
 that in the absence of any determination of violation of rights of either
 party, legality of the direction for eviction solely on the basis of title of
 one party, without considering the statutory rights of the other party, is 20 2019 SCC OnLine Del 11530 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:08.08.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
12:18:23 KUMAR KAURAV - 27 - not sustainable. This Court finds itself in agreement with the said
 contention. 61. This Court in Ambika Jain (supra) has expressly observed that
 as per the provisions of the DV Act , where an aggrieved person may
 be evicted only by "procedure established by law", such eviction does
 not include a decree of a Trial Court decided solely on the basis of
 "title documents" and in non-consideration of her statutory rights
 granted under the DV Act . The expression "procedure established by
 law" is not unknown to the legal discourse. In fact, it has been the
 subject matter of a considerable constitutional discourse in India.
 Suffice to observe that the procedure contemplated in the law ought to
 be just, fair and reasonable. If the procedure adopted by a Court
 tramples upon the statutory rights of any party, or overlooks such
 rights, it could not be termed as just, fair and reasonable. 62. Before parting, the Court deems it appropriate to examine the
 legal position as expounded in a decision rendered by this Court in
 RFA 832 of 2018 titled as Ravneet Kaur v. Prithpal Singh Dhingra .
 It is fleshed out from the analysis of the said decision that the right of
 residence of the daughter-in-law in an established "shared household"