This Revision Petition is filed challenging the impugned

order passed in CMP.No.147/2012 in CC.No.140/2010 on

the files of the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court,

Muvattupuzha, dismissing the above petition filed by the

Revision Petitioner under Section 239 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure, seeking discharge from prosecution.

The Revision Petitioner is the sole accused in

CC.No.140/2010 on the files of the Judicial First Class

Magistrate Court, Muvattupuzha as well as Crime

No.14/2009 in CCPS/Kerala, Thiruvananthapuram of Cyber

Crime Police Station, Kerala, from which the above

Calendar Case had been arisen. 2. Originally he was the accused in Crime

No.1499/2010 of Muvattupuzha Police Station registered for

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 2 the offence punishable under Section 66 of the Information

Technology Act (for short ' IT Act ') and the Crime

No.399/2009 of the Vanchiyoor Police Station registered for

the offence punishable under Section 66 of the IT Act and

Section 420, 379 r/w. Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code.

These two crimes were registered alleging the same act

alleged to have been committed by the accused. But, by the

order No.D5/76776/2009 issued by the Director General of

Police, the above two cases were transferred to Cyber

Police Station, SCRB, Thiruvananthapuram. Now, after

investigation, a final report has been filed by the Circle

Inspector of Police, Cyber Police Station,

Thiruvananthapuram before the Judicial First Class Magistrate

Court, Muvattupuzha against the Revision Petitioner/accused

alleging offence punishable under Section 469 of the IPC

alone, after deleting the offence punishable under Section

66 of the IT Act and also all other offences alleged against

the Revision Petitioner/accused for the offences punishable

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 3 under the India Penal Code. 3. The prosecution case in brief is as follows: It is alleged that the Revision Petitioner had forged and sent

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 4 an electronic record in the name of an entrepreneur by

name V.K.Ibrahim & Sons, which was not in existence on

3.7.2009, from the internet cafe owned by the Cw4 at

Panampilly Nagar, Ernakulam. Thus, the Revision

Petitioner/accused had thereby caused a loss of

reputation to the Bank and Cw1 by sending the above

message using the forged E-mail address and thereby

committed the offence punishable under Section 469 of

IPC. 4. The Revision Petitioner has filed

CMP.No.147/2012, in the above case seeking discharge

from prosecution mainly on the ground that Cyber Police

Station, Thiruvananthapuram has no authority or power to

file a final report to charge sheet him for the offence

punishable under the IPC alone, when there is no police

charge under the Information Technology Act in the final

report. Similarly, the allegations in the charge even if

admitted at its entirety, do not disclose the offence alleged

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 5 against him. The learned Magistrate after hearing both

parties dismissed the petition by the impugned order. This

order is under challenge in this Revision Petition. 5. The learned Senior counsel for the Revision

Petitioner Sri.C.C.Thomas advanced arguments based on

the grounds raised in the Revision Petition. The learned

Senior counsel submitted that in investigation no offence

punishable under the IT Act was disclosed and the Revision

Petitioner is not charge sheeted thereunder. So, the Station

House Officer of the Cyber Police Station,

Thiruvananthapuram has no authority or power to file final

report against the Revision Petitioner for an offence

punishable under the IPC or any statute other than the IT

Act . Thus, the prosecution itself against the Revision

Petitioner on the basis of the final report filed by the Cyber

Police Station is not maintainable. Secondly, even if the

case is admitted at its entirety, the allegations against the

Revision Petitioner do not disclose any offence under

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 6 Section 469 of the IPC. The disputed message which is

alleged to have been sent, even if admitted, that does not

disclose any kind of harm or injury to the reputation of

either Cw1 or the Bank. Therefore, the court below ought

to have allowed the petition and thereby discharged the

Revision Petitioner from prosecution. Thirdly, the Senior

counsel contended that even if the allegations are taken at

its face value, the Investigating Officer failed to collect any

evidence or material objects so as to prove the case against

the Revision Petitioner beyond reasonable doubt. Being an

offence alleged to have been committed through an

electronic media, in the absence of material object by which

the alleged message is said to have been sent, no offence

alleging fabrication of electronic record can be proved. In

short, the prosecution is only an experimental exercise

intended to harass the Revision Petitioner by abusing the

process of the court. The complaint was filed vindictively

by another Officer of the same Bank to wreak-vengeance

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 7 against the Revision Petitioner without any basis. 6. Per contra, the learned Public Prosecutor

advanced the argument to justify the impugned order. He

submits that originally a crime was registered under the IT

Act and was transferred to the Cyber Police Station for

investigation. In such cases even if the investigation does

not disclose the offence under IT Act , since the investigation

has already been completed, the Station House Officer of

the Cyber Police Station has power and authority to charge

sheet the accused for the offences punishable under IPC even in the absence of any offence under the IT Act .

Similarly, he strenuously contended that the act allegedly

done by the Revision Petitioner would constitute forgery

and the contents of the message allegedly sent by the

Revision Petitioner would harm the reputation of the Bank

as well as the Cw1 and thereby offence under Section 469 is

attracted. The learned Public Prosecutor cited H.N.Rishbud v. State of Delhi (AIR 1955 SC 196),

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 8 Prakash Kumar v. State of Gujarat (2005(2) SCC 409),

Bhanuprasad v. State of Gujarat ( AIR 1968 SC 1323) and

State of Tamil Nadu v. Nalini (AIR 1999 SC 2640). 7. I have bestowed my anxious consideration to the

rival contentions advanced by the learned Senior counsel

for the Revision Petitioner and the learned Public

Prosecutor, at the Bar. 8. In view of the rival contentions, the first and

foremost question that arises for consideration is whether

the Cyber Police Station of Kerala having jurisdiction over

the entire State of Kerala, constituted to investigate any

offence committed under the Information Technology Act,

2000 have power or authority to file final report charging

offences under the Indian Penal Code or under any penal

statute other than the Information Technology Act , in the

absence of charge for any of the offences under the Information Technology Act, 2000 in the final report. 9. Let us have look at the general law provided under

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 9 Cr.PC for investigation. Section 156 of the Cr.PC deals with

the Police Officer's power to investigate cognizable case.

According to this Section, any officer in charge of any Police

Station may, without order of a Magistrate, investigate any

cognizable case which a court having jurisdiction over a

local area within the limits of such Station would have

power to enquire into or try under the provisions of Chapter

XIII. According to Section 177 of the Cr.PC, every offence

ordinarily be enquired into and tried by a court within

whose local jurisdiction it was committed. According to Section 4 of the Cr.PC, all offences under IPC shall be

investigated and enquired into, tried and otherwise dealt

with according to the provisions hereinafter contained in Cr.PC . But, according to sub section 2 of Section 4 , all

offences under any other law shall be investigated, inquired

into, tried and otherwise dealt with according to the same

provisions but, subject to any enactment for the time being

in force regulating the manner or place of investigating,

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 10 inquiry into, trying or otherwise dealing with such offences.

Thus, according to the general law, the investigation of an

offence under IPC is vested with the Police Station having

local jurisdiction over the area within which the offence has

been committed and special procedure or power or

jurisdiction can be prescribed for investigation of an offence

under any special enactment for the time being in force. Section 5 saves special or local law for the time being in

force or special jurisdiction or power conferred or any

special form of procedure prescribed by any other law, for

the time being in force. 10. Going by the GO.No.909/2004/Home dated

15.4.2004, it could be seen that the Government of Kerala

under sub Section 2(s) of the Cr.PC and Section 78 of the

Information Technology Act, 2000, constituted and declared

Cyber Police Station known as 'Cyber Police Station Kerala'

having jurisdiction over the entire State of Kerala to

investigate any offence committed under the Information

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 11 Technology Act, 2000 . An explanatory note is also

appended to this notification. Though, the explanatory note

does not form a part of the notification it says that the

explanatory note is intended to explain the purport of the

notification. The explanation clarifies that Cyber Police

Station is sanctioned in view of the upsurge in cyber crimes

including the criminal intimidation on internet, Hate mail,

Cyber stalking, website hacking, theft in internet hours,

credit card frauds, child pornography, internet sexual

harassment, internet bank frauds and all other crimes

where computers are instrumental to crime. The

explanatory note further clarifies that "Cyber Police Station

shall investigate any offence committed under the Information Technology Act, 2000 and this notification is

intended to achieve the above object." To sum up, by the

notification, investigation of the offences falling under the Information Technology Act , has been carved out from the

general law applicable for investigation as provided under

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 12 Cr.PC and given to Cyber Police Station, Kerala. 11. But, on an analysis of the said notification, I am of

the opinion that the scope and extent of the jurisdiction and

power of the 'Cyber Police Station, Kerala' constituted

under the above notification is confined to and regulated by

the Rule that emerges from the legal maxim "Expressio

unius est exclusio alterius" ie., the express mention of one

thing implies exclusion of another. The Law Lexicon

explains the maxim - whenever a statute limits a thing to be

done in a particular form, it necessarily includes in itself a

negative viz., that the thing shall not be done otherwise.

This Rule had been adopted in various judicial precedents

from Taylor v. Taylor (1875(1) Ch D 426) to GVK

Industries Ltd. and another v. Income Tax Officer and

another (2011(4) SCC 36). This Rule adopted in Taylor v.

Taylor is well recognised and is founded on sound principle.

The court took the view that if a statute has conferred a

power to do an act and has laid down the method in which

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 13 that power has to be exercised, it necessarily prohibits the

doing of the act in any other manner than which has been

prescribed. This view has been adopted in Nazir Ahmed v.

King Emperor (AIR 1936 PC 253(2)). In GVK Industries

Ltd. and another v. Income Tax Officer and another (2011

(4) SCC 36), the Supreme Court applied the said Rule as

shown below: Expressio unius est exclusio alterius - the
 express mention of one thing implies the
 exclusion of another. In this case Parliament
 has been granted powers to make laws "for" a specific territory - and that is India or any
 part thereof, by implication, one may not
 read that Parliament has been granted
 powers to make laws "for" territories beyond
 India." 12. When we apply the Rule of "Expressio unius est

exclusio alterius" in the instant case, it can be held that

when a special notification expressly confers power and

jurisdiction to investigate offences falling under a Special

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 14 Statute only to a special investigating agency or to a

particular Police Station, the Rule making authority is

deemed to have intentionally excluded Power and

Jurisdiction to investigate all other offences, falling under

any Statute other than that Special Statute. To sum up: An

implied exclusion of the investigation of all other offences

from the purview or authority of the Cyber Police Station

Kerala is inherent in the notification itself. 13. When an act is prescribed to be done in a specific

way or when a power or authority is conferred to another

with a direction to exercise power or authority for the

performance of a specific thing or purpose, such act shall

be done or performed in such a way only and such power or

authority shall be exercised for the purpose for which the

power has been conferred only and nothing more or nothing

less than that. Going by the notification, in the light of

explanatory note, I am of the opinion that obviously, the

Cyber Police Station Kerala having sphere of authority over

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 15 the entire State of Kerala is constituted for investigating

offences coming under the Information Technology Act,

2000 only and nothing more than that. On a combined

reading of notification and explanation thereunder, it is very

clear that Cyber Police Station has the power to investigate

offences coming under the Information Technology Act only

and no other offences can be investigated by them.

Necessarily, it follows that Cyber Police Station has no

power or authority to file final report in the absence of any

offence under the Information Technology Act in the final

report. When none of the offences under Information

Technology Act had been disclosed in investigation, the

Station House Officer, Cyber Police Station should have

sent back the case to the Police Station under which the

offences under the Indian Penal Code had allegedly been

committed. Therefore, I find that the final report has been

filed without power or authority conferred by the

notification and no prosecution can be launched on the

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 16 basis of that final Report. 14. But here, indisputably no offence has been

disclosed in investigation under the Information Technology

Act . Consequently, the Revision Petitioner has not been

charge sheeted for any of the offences under the Information Technology Act in the final report. The present

final report is filed charging offence under the Indian Penal

Code alone for which the Cyber Police Station has no power

or authority. Whether the Cyber Police Station has power

to investigate offences coming under the penal code or any

other penal statute other than the Information Technology

Act along with offences coming under the Information

Technology Act and to file final report charging such

offences under other statutes also along with the offences

under the Information Technology Act ? Considering the

facts of the instant case, this question does not arise for

consideration and both parties did not address on that issue

as it is not necessary. So, I leave it open there.

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 17 15. The decision in Prakashkumar v. State of

Gujarat [(2005) 2 SCC 409] is not applicable to the instant

case. Thereby interpretation of Sec.12(1) and (2) of the

TADA, the Apex Court held that once the other offences

under other Statutes are connected with the offence under

the TADA, if the accused is charged with all the offences,

the designated court is empowered to convict the accused

for the offence under any law notwithstanding the fact that

no offence under the TADA is made out. Here the question

is entirely different. There, the Section 12(1) of the TADA

empowers the designated court to try the offences under

different Statutes other than the TADA along with the

TADA. But here the notification does not permit so. The

Cyber Police Station cannot file charge sheet under the Indian Penal Code . I have considered the decisions

reported in Bhanuprasad v. State of Gujarat (AIR 1968

Supreme Court 1323) and State of Tamil Nadu v. Nalini

(AIR 1999 SC 2640). But these decisions do not render

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 18 any assistance to justify the lack of power involved in this

case. The learned Public Prosecutor further points out that

the decision in H.N. Rishbud v. State of Delhi (AIR 1955

SC 196) a defect or illegality in investigation, however,

serious, has no direct bearing on the competence or the

procedure relating to cognizance or trial. I am of the

opinion that the said proposition cannot be imported to the

case where the Police Officer who has no power or

authority, has filed a final report, which is incurable in all

respects. 16. The next point for consideration is whether

there is any material evidence or documents to prove that

the offence had been committed by the revision petitioner.

The prosecution case is that the message had been sent

from the Internet Cafe of Cw4 on 3/7/2009, using the IP

address allotted to Cw4. Admittedly on 3/7/2009, 11

persons had visited the Internet Cafe and used the facilities

on hire. Since 45 days have already been elapsed, video

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 19 clippings had been deleted automatically. Besides, Cw4

himself had effected formatting and also wiped off several

times through wiping tools. The video clippings of those

who visited the Cafe as customers on 3/7/2009 are not

available according to Cw4 and it cannot be decoded again

as already wiped off by automatic deletion. The statement

of Cw4 is supported by the statement of his employees Cw7

and Cw8 also. Thus, the crucial material object is not

available in the hands of prosecution. Instead of video

clippings of the customers who visited the cafe on 3/7/09,

the prosecution has seized C.Ds. containing visuals of those

who visited the Cafe on 9/10/09 and 16/10/09 merely on the

reason that the Revision Petitioner had visited the Cafe on

those days ie., after three months. Indisputably, these C.Ds.

will not serve the purpose of proving the prosecution case

that the revision petitioner had sent the message on

3/7/2009 from the cafe owned by Cw4 using IP password

allotted to Cw4. I am of the opinion that the material

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 20 evidence to show the person who sent the message is not

available with the prosecution. 17. Similarly, the statements of Cw4 and his two

employees Cw7 and Cw8, show that even in the log book

the number and details of each cabin which was used by

each customer including the accused on 3/7/09 is not

available in the log book as that column is left blank by

omission. Therefore, even if the revision petitioner visited

the Cafe on 3/7/09, the computer which is said to have been

used by the revision petitioner is not identifiable. In the

final report, it is also stated that since the video clippings

containing the visuals of the persons who visited the Cafe

on 3/7/09 are not available, the computer and its hard disc

have not been seized and taken into custody by the police as

Material Objects. 18. The last point raised by the learned Senior

counsel is that the contents of the message do not cause

any harm to the reputation of either Cw1 or the Bank. It is

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 21 pertinent to note that the allegation is that the project

proposal of one V.K. Ibrahim was rejected on various

reasons. But at the same time, the credit limit enjoyed by

K.C. Wood Industries has been increased from Rs.25 lakhs

to Rs.50 lakhs. It is also alleged that the same is an undue

personal favour done by the Regional Manager. It is to be

noted that no kind of undue pecuniary benefit, ill-will,

ulterior motive or mala fides had been attributed against

the said Regional Manager. In short, the allegation is that

the attitude shown by the Regional Manager was

discriminatory or, at the most, he has violated the norms

or showed some undue favour. The allegation is thus

confined to an act done in discharge of the official duty and

nothing more than that. More pertinently, the message was

intended to make an enquiry on his complaint as obviously

the same is the concluding request. I am of the opinion

that the message can be depicted as a complaint and if the

allegation is not true, it is only a false complaint. It is to be

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 22 noted that Cw6 Job Abraham, the Asst.Manager, Vigilance

Wing as well as the recipient of the message had given a

statement that no independent vigilance enquiry had been

conducted so far by the Vigilance Department of the State

Bank of Travancore, as he believed the statement of Branch

Manager and Zonal Manager, despite the receipt of this

message indicating discrimination in granting loan. I am of

the opinion that the message does not disclose an intent to

harm the reputation of the Bank or Cw1, the essential

ingredient constituting the offence under Sec.369 Indian

Penal Code; but intended for embarking an enquiry. 19. More interestingly, the Deputy Manager,

State Bank of Travancore, Muvattupuzha Branch, has given

a statement that K.C. Wood Industries had submitted an

application for enhancing their credit limit from Rs.25 lakhs

to Rs.50 lakhs and that application is being kept in the

office and he is ready to produce it. No independent

investigation has been made by the police to find out

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 23 whether the allegations in the message are true? No such

materials are available in the final charge except the

statements of complainants. 20. Thus, the crucial Material Objects on which

the prosecution case rests are not available, even according

to the prosecution. Thus, there is no material to connect the

revision petitioner with the alleged offence. So, I am of

the opinion that not only the charge in the final report but

also the materials produced along with the final report do

not disclose the offence said to have been committed by the

accused even if the uncontroverted prosecution case is

admitted. Thus, there are no sufficient grounds to

prosecute the revision petitioner even if the uncontroverted

prosecution case is admitted. If the prosecution is allowed

to continue with trial, certainly it will be a futile

experimental exercise as well as abuse of the process of the

Court. 21. Consequently, the impugned order under

Crl.RP.No.10/2013. 24 challenge passed by the court below is set aside and

C.M.P.No.147/12 in C.C.No.140/10 on the files of the

Judicial First Class Magistrate's Court, Muvattupuzha, will

stand allowed. In the result, the revision petitioner is

discharged from the prosecution for the offences alleged

against him in the above Calendar Case. Sd/- K. HARILAL,
 (JUDGE)

Kvs/- -// true copy //- PA TO JUDGE