1. Present suit has been filed by the plaintiffs for permanent injunction
 restraining infringement of copyright, trademark, passing off, rendition of
 accounts of profit, damages and delivery up. Summons in the suit and
 notice in the application under Order XXXIX Rule 1 & 2, were issued on
 23.12.2011 and 20.01.2012. On an application for appointment of local
 commissioner filed by the plaintiff, a local commissioner was appointed.
 Defendants entered appearance on 15.03.3012 and sought time to file the
 written statement and reply to the interim application. Defendants failed
 to file their written statement and reply to the interim application,
 therefore their right to file the same was closed vide order dated
 29.05.2012 and on the same date, defendants were proceeded ex parte.
 Plaintiffs‟ evidence was concluded on 17.12.2012. 2. Further, plaintiffs filed an application under Order XXXIX Rule 2A and
 notice was issued in the said application to defendants through e-mail on
 19.12.2012. None appeared for defendants, therefore, bailable warrants in
 the sum of Rs. 5000/- were issued against defendant no.1 vide order dated
 15.07.2013. Bailable warrants could not be executed as defendant no.1
 was not found at the addresses that was given. Vide order dated
 10.10.2013 the bank account of defendant no.2 with Karnataka Bank was
 frozen. 3. Plaintiffs have filed affidavit by way of evidence of Mr.Somanath Ballari
 (PW1), constituted attorney of plaintiffs. Affidavit of PW1 has been
 exhibited as Ex. PW1/A. The copy of Power of Attorney dated
 25.02.2011, 12.05.2011 and Letter of Authority dated 3.10.2011 have
 been exhibited as Ex.PW1/1, Ex.PW1/2 and Ex. PW1/3, respectively. 4. PW1 has deposed that plaintiff no.1 is recognized as a global market
 leader in providing collaborative, inter-enterprise business solutions for
 all types of industries and for every major market and further the
 plaintiffs‟ application and services enable more than 1,76,000 customers
 worldwide. It has also been deposed that plaintiffs are one of the largest
 independent software providers in the world. Printouts from the plaintiffs‟
 website providing the aforesaid data have been exhibited as Ex. PW1/4
 (colly). 5. PW1 has also deposed that the plaintiffs‟ business solutions are
 collectively called as SAP Business Suit and comprise of the following
 components being Customer Relationship Management (CRM),
 Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Product Lifecycle Management
 (PLM), Supply Chain Management (SCM) and Supplier Relationship
 Management (SRM). It has also been deposed that plaintiff no.1
 developed an automatic accounting and transaction-processing program
 popularly called as RF-System in the year 1970. This software title was
 the first in the series of packaged ERP solutions. Plaintiff no.1
 consistently kept developing on its platforms and introduced SAP R/2 in
 1979. In 1992, plaintiff no.1 introduced SAP R/3 a new architectural
 paradigm by combining three-tier client-server architecture with the
 business concept of enhanced process integration. Plaintiff‟s no.1 SAP
 R/3 software met with overwhelming approval of the user industries and
 ushered in a new generation of enterprise software. 6. PW1 has further deposed being customizable solutions tailored to the
 specific needs of each customer, software products of the Plaintiffs are
 neither available off the shelf, or through e-stores or resellers nor are
 bundled with any computer hardware vendors as an OEM (Original
 Equipment Manufactured product or as a gift) in India. 7. PW1 has next deposed that due to the high levels of customization of
 plaintiff‟s no. 1 software products, the plaintiffs have purpose specific
 versions of its software license agreements namely End User License
 Agreements (EULA). The software of the plaintiffs are customized as per
 customers‟ specific use and requires specially trained software
 professionals to load, execute, access, employ, utilize and display end to
 end solutions derived from such software products. The said EULAs
 pertain to specific use of the plaintiffs‟ software programs and does not
 grant license for third party training. It has also been deposed that the
 plaintiffs have specific license agreements to govern comprehensive and
 continuing education/training programs essential to make effective and
 meaningful use of SAP software products. A copy of the
 Education/Training License Agreement ("SAP Academy Program") has
 been exhibited as Ex. PW-1/5. Also, the Plaintiffs observe these
 procedures in the strictest of fashion and consequently maintain detailed
 software license database, which contains all the relevant details of
 licensed users of plaintiffs‟ software and the particular nature of license. 8. Further, the software of the plaintiffs requires specially trained software
 professionals to load, execute, access, employ, utilize, store and display
 integrated end-to-end solutions derived from such software products and
 only a formal Training Agreement with the plaintiffs render a training
 license in respect of SAP software. It has also been deposed that the
 plaintiffs have entered into several specific arrangements with third party
 software specialists (known as „Partners‟) the world over, for the
 provision of professional training on working of the plaintiffs‟ software
 programs and unless specifically authorized through the said training
 agreements with the plaintiffs, no individual or entity would become
 eligible or authorised to act as Partner. In India, for the purpose of
 providing education training services upon the plaintiffs‟ software, the
 plaintiffs have entered into partnership with specific entities. A list of
 Partners authorized to render training in India has been exhibited as Ex.
 PW-1/6. 9. PW1, Mr. Somanath Ballari, has also deposed that plaintiff no. 1 is the
 sole owner of copyright in the software programs developed and marketed
 by it. It has also been deposed that the software programs are "computer
 programs" within the meaning of Section 2 (ffc) of the Copyright Act
 1957 and included in the definition of a literary work as per Section 2 (o) of the said Act. Copy of the copyright registration certificates issued by
 the United States Copyright Office has been exhibited as Ex. PW-1/7
 (Colly). 10. He has further deposed that plaintiff no. 1 adopted and is continuously
 and extensively using SAP as its trade name/ trade mark/ corporate name
 since 1972. Owing to its continuous long standing and extensive use, the
 trade mark/ trade name/ corporate name SAP has become integral part of
 the plaintiffs‟ trade and business. Plaintiff no. 1 is the registered
 proprietor of the trade mark/ trade name/ corporate name SAP in over 75
 countries worldwide. In India, the trade mark/ trade name/ corporate name
 SAP and other SAP formative marks is registered in several classes
 including Class 41 of the international trade mark classification for
 training about the creation, design, development, use and application of
 computer programs and software and about electronic data processing.
 Copy of the Registration Certificates and legal proceeding certificates
 issued by the Trade Marks Registry has been exhibited as Ex. PW-1/8
 (Colly). 11. PW1 has further deposed that owing to the outreach, utility and popularity
 of e-commerce, the plaintiffs promotes and provide details of its trade and
 business through its website www.sap.com, which is accessible
 throughout the world. Printout of the plaintiffs‟ website has been
 exhibited as Ex. PW-1/9 (Colly). It has also been deposed that owing to
 its worldwide presence, huge clientele and renowned business practice,
 the trade mark/ trade name/ corporate name SAP has gained immense
 goodwill and reputation worldwide. 12. PW1 has next deposed that the trade mark/ trade name/ corporate name
 SAP is one of the leading brands in the world. Inter Brand, a popular and
 independent brand agency ranks the brand SAP as Twenty Fourth (24)
 Best Global Brands for the year 2011. The Printout of the web-page of
 Inter Brand showing the rank and brand value of the trade mark/ trade
 name/ corporate name SAP has been exhibited as Ex. PW-1/10. 13. Further, in December, 2011 the plaintiffs learned about the defendants
 through the internet upon visiting the defendants‟ website
 www.sapguru.org . Plaintiffs learned from the said website that the
 defendants are offering training on SAP software under the infringing
 trade name / trademark SAPGURU. It has also been deposed that
 defendants offer to provide the training on Netweaver Enterprises portal
 and SAP CRM and that the Netweaver Enterprise course is of sixty (60)
 hours and the fee for the said course is INR Two Lakhs (INR 2,00,000). 14. PW1 has also deposed that SAP GURU is suggestive of „Master in SAP
 training‟. Defendant No.1 has adopted the identical/deceptively similar
 name SAP GURU, solely with the intent to cause confusion to the
 potential customers. Such adoption and use is illegal and violative of
 plaintiffs‟ exclusive rights in the trade mark „SAP‟. The unauthorized use
 by the Defendants of the mark „SAP‟ as part of its website, keywords,
 trading style and as a trademark amounts to infringement of plaintiffs
 registered trademark in India. 15. PW1 has further deposed that the defendants also have created and
 actively operate their domain name www.sapguru.org, through the
 internet. Internet serves as one of the most essential medium of trade and
 commerce, globally and potential customers, students and public at large,
 who search for the products, services or training of the plaintiffs, are
 deceived by the identical/deceptive name SAP GURU and are made to
 believe that defendants are affiliated/recognised/connected with the
 plaintiffs. It has also been deposed that the illegal and unauthorised use of
 plaintiffs‟ trade mark „SAP‟ in SAP GURU is nothing but a conscious and
 deliberate attempt to illegally encash upon the impeccable goodwill and
 reputation gained by the plaintiffs over the years and to cause confusion
 and deception within the trade circles and amongst the public at large.
 Defendants have deceived several potential customers, students and
 public at large and caused irreparable harm and injury to the plaintiffs in
 terms of profit, goodwill, reputation. 16. PW1, Mr. Somanath, has also deposed that the defendants are brazenly
 using the plaintiffs‟ registered trade mark SAP on its website. Moreover,
 defendants‟ trade name/trademark is virtually identical and/ or deceptively
 similar to the plaintiffs‟ registered trade mark/ trade name/ corporate
 name SAP and other SAP formative marks. It has also been deposed that
 the defendants are also using the plaintiffs‟ trademarks including SAP,
 ABAP and Netweaver as keywords and metatags for the website
 www.sapguru.org to divert the plaintiffs‟ potential customers and internet
 users to the said website. Printouts of the Defendants‟ websites have been
 exhibited as Ex. PW-1/11 (Colly). 17. PW1 has next deposed that the plaintiffs engaged an independent
 investigator to procure further information. The investigator confirmed
 that the Defendants provide training on SAP modules. Defendants
 informed the investigator that they provide SAP CRM training for INR
 Two Lakhs (2,00,000) and that the training is provided on plaintiffs‟
 software mySAP CRM 7.0. Defendants further informed that the
 plaintiffs‟ software can be installed on additional payment of INR Three
 Thousand (INR 3,000). The Defendants also provided information
 brochure, pamphlets and visiting cards to the independent investigator and
 the same have been exhibited as Ex. PW-1/12 (colly). 18. Further, pursuant to the order dated 23.12.2011, the local commissioner
 visited the defendants‟ premises and on inspection found plaintiffs‟ SAP
 software on the computer installed at defendants‟ premises. The local
 commissioner also noted that at least Thirty Two (32) students were
 enrolled for the SAP training and the defendants charged the said students
 fees ranging from INR Twenty Five Thousand (INR 25,000) to INR
 Seventy Five Thousand (INR 75,000). Moreover, the Local
 Commissioner also noted that as per the printout on the notice board in
 the defendants‟ premises, the defendants were offering the unauthorised
 training on SAP CRM 7.0 for a fee of INR Two Lakh Twenty Four
 Thousand Seven Hundred and Twenty (INR 2,24,720). 19. PW1 has also deposed that although there are no known means to
 calculate the actual damages suffered by the plaintiffs, yet an appropriate
 figure can be determined on the basis of the following criterions: Therefore, the plaintiffs have suffered a loss of around INR
 Rs.2,85,00,000/- (Two Crores Eight Five Lakhs Only) due to the
 use of infringing activities by the defendants for unauthorised
 training. (b) Defendants enrolled at least Thirty Two (32) students for training
 on SAP software and as per the placement list available on its
 website www.sapguru.org, the defendants have placed about One
 Hundred and Thirty (130) students who undertook SAP CRM
 training from the defendants. The Plaintiffs charges Rs.3,30,000/
 (Three lakhs thirty Thousand) as the course fee for CRM and hence
 the plaintiffs suffered the damages of about Rs.4,29,00,000/- (Four
 Crores and twenty Nine Lakhs) due to the unauthorised training
 provided by the defendants to the 130 students. (c) The unauthorised and illegal use of the trade mark / trade name/
 corporate name „SAP‟ by the Defendants have caused confusion to
 several consumers and internet users, causing immense loss of
 revenue and goodwill to the plaintiffs. Moreover, various students
 have lodged complaints on third party online forums for cheating
 and fraud against the defendants. Although the loss of revenue,
 goodwill and reputation thus caused is incalculable, the plaintiffs
 quantify the damages thus caused to the tune of atleast
 Rs.10,00,000/- (Rs. Ten Lakhs). 20. Plaintiffs have also filed affidavit by way of evidence of Mr.Nitin Mishra
 (PW2), who is working with the software audit team of the plaintiff
 company since the year 2008. PW2 has deposed in his affidavit that in
 pursuance to the direction given vide order dated 23.12.2011, being
 appointed as technical expert of plaintiff company, he accompanied the
 local commissioner to assist him. 21. PW2 has also deposed that on 29.12.2011, he visited the defendants‟
 premises at the given address along with the local commissioner and the
 plaintiffs‟ counsel. On learning that the defendants have relocated to a
 new address, they visited the said new address on 30.12.2011 and found
 that the defendants were operating their training centre from the said
 address. They noticed a few printouts pasted on the notice board, which
 are mentioned as follows: 22. PW2 has further deposed that they met Ms.Monika Rathore, PRO at SAP
 GURU and Mr.Debnath, student. The local commissioner enquired about
 Mr.Rohit Sharma (defendant), who was not available at the centre at that
 instance. The local commissioner informed Mr.Rohit Sharma(defendant)
 through telephone about the local commission and requested him to attend
 the proceedings. However, Mr. Rohit Sharma did not appear for over half
 an hour and in view of the same, the proceedings were initiated in his
 absence. 23. PW2 has next deposed that he inspected the computer machines being one
 CPU and four laptops for locating infringing software and study materials.
 The hard disc bearing name 5LJ1TMNQ, found in the said CPU, carried
 SAP CRM 7.0 software. Furthermore, three laptops were found with
 logon pads to access the software from the said CPU. In one laptop, which
 was located at the reception, only study material was found. 24. Further, after the completion of the proceedings Ms. Monika signed and
 stamped the Superdarinama. The local commissioner also noticed a file
 containing copies of fee receipts and on perusal found fee receipts issued
 to thirty two students, towards the payment for SAP CRM Course. PW2
 also noted that the students have paid fee for the course in range of INR
 Twenty Five Thousand to INR Seventy Five Thousand. 25. I have heard counsel for the plaintiffs and carefully perused the
 documents which have been placed on record along with the affidavit by
 way of evidence which have been filed. Evidence of plaintiffs have gone
 unchallenged and un-rebutted. Copyright registration certificates issued in
 favor of plaintiff have been exhibited as Ex. PW1/7(colly). Copy of
 registration certificates, issued by trademark registry, in favor of plaintiffs
 have been exhibited as Ex.PW1/8(colly). A copy of Education/Training
 License Agreement and list of authorized partners of plaintiffs in India
 have been exhibited as Ex. PW1/5 and Ex.PW1/6, respectively. Printouts
 from defendants‟ websites and brochure, pamphlets and visiting card of
 defendants have been exhibited as Ex. PW1/11(colly) and
 Ex.PW1/12(colly), respectively. 26. On the basis of the documents place on record, plaintiffs have established
 that plaintiff no.1 is the sole owner of copyright in the computer programs
 within the meaning of section 2(ffc) of the Copyright Act, 1957 and is
 included in the definition of literary work as per Section 2(o) of the said
 Act. Section 17 of the Copyright Act, 1957 gives exclusive rights to the
 plaintiffs to exploit all rights emanating from the ownership of their
 copyright. These rights are set out in Section 14 of the said Act. Plaintiff
 no.1 is also the registered proprietor of the trademark/trade
 name/corporate name SAP and has the exclusive right to use the same.
 Plaintiffs have also established that the defendants by using the
 trademark/domain name SAPGURU, are infringing the copyright and
 trademark SAP of plaintiffs and also encashing the goodwill and
 reputation earned by the plaintiffs over a period of many years. Plaintiffs
 have also established that the defendants are also infringing the copyright
 of plaintiff in SAP computer programs by reproducing/installing and
 providing unauthorized training on software programs of plaintiff.
 Defendants have not been granted any license of any software to provide
 any training to third parties/students by the plaintiffs. 27. Further, defendants by using deceptively similar/ identical trademark SAP
 GURU are attempting to create an impression of connection or affiliation
 with the plaintiffs, in the minds of potential customers and public at large.
 Furthermore, internet serves as one of the most essential medium of trade
 and commerce and potential customers of plaintiff are deceived by the
 domain name "www.sapguru.org" of defendants and are made to believe
 that defendants are affiliated/recognized/connected with plaintiffs and the
 illegal and unauthorised use of plaintiffs‟ trade mark „SAP‟ in SAP
 GURU is nothing but a conscious and deliberate attempt to illegally
 encash upon the impeccable goodwill and reputation gained by the
 plaintiffs over the years and to cause confusion and deception within the
 trade circles and amongst the public at large. 28. In a very recent judgment delivered by another bench of this court, The
 Indian Hotels Company Ltd. Vs. Ashwajeet Garg and Ors. CS(OS )
 394/2012, decided on 01.05.2014, following observations were made: 29. In the case of Laxmikant V. Patel Vs. Chetanbhai Shah And Another ,
 reported at (2002) 3 SCC 65, Apex court made following observation: 30. In view of the aforesaid, the plaintiffs are entitled to a decree of
 permanent injunction in terms of prayer (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 42 of
 the plaint. 31. The plaintiffs have also claimed damages on account of illegal activities
 of the defendants along with delivery up of all unlicensed/pirated
 plaintiffs‟ software lying in possession of the defendants. Plaintiffs have
 further claimed rendition of accounts of profits illegally earned by
 defendants, however, plaintiffs have restricted its prayer to punitive
 damages. I have no hesitation to state that the Defendants have
 deliberately stayed away from the present proceedings as a result of which
 an enquiry in the accounts of defendants for determination of charges
 could not take place. 32. In Microsoft Corporation v. Deepak Raval reported at MIPR 2007 (1) 72,
 this Court observed that in our country the Courts are becoming sensitive
 to the growing menace of piracy and have started granting punitive
 damages even in cases where due to absence of Defendant, the exact
 figures of sale made by them under the infringing copyright and/or
 trademark, exact damages are not available. The justification given by the
 Court for award of compulsory damages was to make up for the loss
 suffered by the plaintiff and deter a wrong doer and like-minded from
 indulging in such unlawful activities. 33. In Larsen and Toubro Limited v. Chagan Bhai Patel reported at MIPR
 2009 (1) 194, this Court has observed that it would be encouraging the
 violators of intellectual property, if the Defendants notwithstanding
 having not contested the suit are not burdened with punitive damages. 34. In case of Time Incorporated v. Lokesh Srivastava and Anr. , reported at
 2005 (30) PTC 3 (Del), the court has recognized third type of damages as
 punitive damages apart from compensatory and nominal damages. The
 court has held that: 35. Based on the report of the Local Commissioner and the investigator,
 leaves no room for doubt that the computers were installed at the premises
 of the defendants with the SAP Software, various students were enrolled
 and fees were being charged from them. This is a fit case where the
 plaintiff is entitled to damages of Rs.5.00 lakhs. 36. For the reasons stated above, the plaintiffs have made out a case for grant
 of decree as prayed in the plaint. Accordingly, the order dated 23.12.2011
 is confirmed and the suit is decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against
 the defendants. Plaintiff is also entitled to damages to the tune of Rs.5.00
 lacs. 36. Decree sheet be drawn up accordingly. 37. Present application is dismissed in view of the above. (G.S.SISTANI)
 JUDGE
SEPTEMBER 12, 2014
ssn