Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned AGA for the State and perused the record. In the FIR, it has been alleged that near Sultanpur Road, one Ajay Pratap approached the informant and disclosed information regarding Satyam Tiwari, who was allegedly involved in several Chinese fraud telegraph groups and maintained contact with Chinese fraudsters. It is alleged that these fraudsters, in connivance with Satyam Tiwari and his associates, used fake bank accounts to deposit proceeds of cyber fraud, which were subsequently withdrawn through ATMs and cheques. For these transactions, Satyam Tiwari and his associates allegedly received substantial commission. On the basis of the aforesaid information, recovery was made by the police, wherein 16 mobile phones, 2 laptops, 2 cheque books, 4 four-wheeler vehicles and certain cash were seized. Eight persons were arrested, and an FIR was lodged under Sections 317(2), 318(4), 61(2), 111(2)(b) of the BNS and Sections 66C and 66D of the IT Act at Police Station- Cyber Crime, Lucknow. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that except for Section 111 BNS, the remaining offences are punishable with imprisonment up to seven years. He further submits that no offence under Section 111(2)(b) BNS is made out inasmuch as the said provision requires proof of continuous unlawful activity, i.e., filing of charge sheets in more than one case. In the present matter, except for the instant case, no charge sheet has been filed. Therefore, registration of FIR under Section 111 BNS is unwarranted and section 111 BNS has been added only to enhance the severity of the punishment. It is further submitted that as per the recovery memo, one Vivo phone has been shown to be recovered from the applicant. It is submitted that the co-accused Krish Shukla has already been granted bail by this Court vide order dated 25.8.2025 passed in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 7822 of 2025. Hence, the present applicant claims parity. It is further submitted that the applicant is languishing in jail since 21.6.2025 having no criminal history. There is no possibility of the applicant of fleeing away after being released from jail or tampering with the witnesses. In case the applicant is enlarged on bail, he shall not misuse the liberty of bail. Learned AGA has opposed the bail application but could not demonstrate from the record that, till the filing of the charge sheet, any other charge sheet had been filed against the applicant. However, he submits that the present case pertains to a large-scale cyber fraud scam unearthed by the police. On due consideration to the provisions of Section 111 BNS, the admitted position that except for the present case no other charge sheet exists against the applicant, the fact that the remaining offences are punishable with imprisonment up to seven years, the applicant has no previous criminal antecedents, charge sheet has already been filed and the applicant is in custody since 21.06.2025, I find it to be a fit case for granting bail to the applicant on the ground of parity. Accordingly, the bail application is allowed. Let the applicant-Diwakar Vikram Singh involved in Case Crime No. 98/2025, under Sections 317(2), 318(4), 61(2) , 111(2)(b) of the BNS and Sections 66C and 66D of the IT Act at Police Station- Cyber Crime, Lucknow, be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions which are being imposed in the interest of justice:- It is clarified that the observations made in this order are confined to the present bail application and shall have no bearing on the merits of the trial. August 26, 2025
 
Shravan