The question involved in this Civil Revision is as to whether this Court, in exercise of its power under Article 227 of The Constitution of India, can order for striking of the proceedings pending before the Courts, which are subordinates to it, when fraud was committed by a party to such proceedings to deceive the Court and obtain orders in his favour to dispossess the person who was in lawful possession of a property. 2. 	The striking facts, which are relevant and germane for disposal of this Civil Revision Petition is that the respondent herein has filed R.C.O.P. No. 1881 of 2003 before the learned IX Judge, Small Causes Court at Chennai under Section 10 (2) (i) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act against the revision petitioner herein for eviction of the respondent herein on the ground of wilful default in payment of rent. In this Original Petition, an exparte order was passed on 10.02.2004 against the revision petitioner herein. On coming to know about the said order, the respondent herein filed M.P. No. 612 of 2004 in RCOP No. 1881 of 2003 for condonation of delay of 125 days in filing an application to set aside the exparte order dated 10.02.2004. The learned Rent Controller, after hearing both sides, condoned the delay and allowed M.P. No. 612 of 2004 on 06.10.2004. Subsequently, the petition filed by the respondent for setting aside the exparte order was also allowed on 14.10.2004. Therefore, the Rent Control Original Petition was taken up for final disposal. The learned Rent Controller, after hearing both sides, dismissed the RCOP No. 1881 of 2003 on 28.10.2004 on the ground that the revision petitioner failed to prove his title to the petition mentioned property and that there was no landlord-tenant relationship between the parties to the Original Petition. In the order dated 28.10.2004, the learned Rent Controller also observed that the respondent herein has given a written complaint to the Police against the revision petitioner herein complaining that the revision petitioner is compelling and coercing him to sell the petition mentioned property. The learned Rent Controller further observed that the respondent herein has not produced any document to prove that he is the owner of the Petition Mentioned Property. As against the Order dated 28.10.2004 passed in RCOP No. 1881 of 2003, the revision petitioner has not preferred any appeal. Thus the Rent Control Original Proceedings initiated by the respondent herein has reached a finality. 3. 	While so, after about 9 years from the date of dismissal of the Rent Control Original Petition on 28.10.2004, the respondent herein has filed E.P. No. 250 of 2013 on 06.07.2013 to execute the exparte decree dated 10.02.2004, which was subsequently set aside and the Rent Control Original Petition itself was dismissed on 28.10.2004. In this Execution Petition, the respondent herein has stated that an exparte decree was passed in RCOP No. 1881 of 2003 against which no appeal has been filed. In the Execution Petition, notice was taken to the revision petitioner herein through Court as well as privately. The notice sent through the Court was returned as served and an Affidavit of Service was filed to show that the private notice sent to the revision petitioner was received by him. Based on the alleged service of notice, the learned Rent Controller, by order dated 19.07.2013, ordered for delivery and batta was ordered to be paid on 30.07.2013. Thereafter, at the instance of the respondent herein, a petition for advance hearing was filed and the Execution Petition was taken up for hearing on 02.08.2013. On 02.08.2013, the respondent filed Petitions for Police Aid and Break Open and they were also allowed and fresh delivery was ordered returnable by 07.08.2013. On the same day, possession was taken by the respondent herein and after taking possession, the warrant was returned with an endorsement "possession taken". On the same day i.e., on 07.08.2013, the Execution Petition was ordered to be terminated in view of the fact that possession was taken by the respondent herein. 4. 	At this stage, the revision petitioner herein, who is shown as Judgment Debtor in E.P. No. 250 of 2013, filed a Memo before the Executing Court to the effect that the Execution Petition is not maintainable in law inasmuch as the Rent Control Original Petition itself was dismissed on 28.10.2004, after contest and that the Execution Petition was filed only on the basis of the Exparte Order passed in the RCOP No. 1881 of 2003 on 10.02.2004. On the basis of the memo filed by the revision petitioner, the Executing Court posted EP No. 250 of 2013 for clarification and the respondent was directed to file an objection. In the Objection, the respondent only stated that the Memo filed by the revision petitioner is not maintainable and for re-delivery or re-possession of the petition mentioned property and that he has to only file a petition seeking such prayer. 5. 	The learned Rent Controller, after hearing both sides, passed an order dated 12.08.2013 directing the respondent herein to re-deliver possession of the petition mentioned property to the revision petitioner herein within 3 days. As against this order, the respondent herein filed R.C.A. No. 392 of 2013 before the Rent Control Appellate Authority on 13.08.2013 and obtained an interim order on the same day. Aggrieved by the order dated 13.08.2013, the revision petitioner has filed the present Civil Revision Petition invoking Article 227 of The Constitution of India. 6. 	The learned counsel appearing for the revision petitioner would contend that when it is established by the revision petitioner that possession of the property was taken from him by adopting deceitful means and by playing fraud on the Court, this Court, under Article 227 of The Constitution of India, has wide and sweeping powers to set at naught the illegality committed by the respondent and order for re-delivery of possession of the property. The learned counsel for the revision petitioner would further contend that under Article 227 of The Constitution of India, this Court has got unfettered powers for ordering re-delivery of possession especially when it is established that the possession was taken by the respondent by playing fraud on the Court. 7. In this context, the learned counsel for the revision petitioner relied on several decisions of this Court as well as the Honourable Supreme Court of India namely (i) ( J. Sivasubramanian and another vs. N. Govindarajan and another ) 1998 1 CTC 470 (ii) ( Renuka Devi vs. D. Manoharan ) 1997 (III) CTC 567 (iii) ( Roshan Deen vs. Preeti Lal ) 2002 1 CTC 183 and prayed this Court to restore possession of the Petition Mentioned Property in favour of the revision petitioner herein. 8. 	Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent would contend that the present prayer of the revision petitioner for re-delivery of possession cannot be considered by this Court while exercising jurisdiction under Article 227 of The Constitution of India. According to the learned counsel for the respondent, Section 2 (2) of the Code of Civil Procedure, which defines the term 'decree' and any decree passed in terms of Section 2 (2) of CPC can be deemed to include the rejection of a plaint and the same can be questioned only by filing an appeal and a Revision under Article 227 of The Constitution of India is not maintainable. Further, the respondent herein has already filed R.C.A. No. 392 of 2013 before the Appellate Authority and the same is pending, therefore also, the present Civil Revision Petition is not maintainable. The learned counsel further argued that this Court has no jurisdiction to entertain this Civil Revision Petition and for passing an order thereof for re-delivery of possession. 9. In support of his argument, the learned counsel for the respondent relied on the decision of this Court reported in (M/s. Mahaveer Electric Corporation vs. D. Ashok Kumar and 2 others) 1997 2 CTC 107 to contend that power of re-delivery or restitution can be exercised by Rent Controller in terms of Section 144 of Code of Civil Procedure and a Civil Revision Petition is not maintainable. The learned counsel for the respondent also relied on the decision of this Court reported in ( Balakrishnan vs. Rathinam ) 1988 Madras 379 to argue that there is a bar under Section 18 (2) of the Act in respect of restitution provided under Section 144 of CPC and therefore only an appeal will lie and the Civil Revision Petition is not maintainable. 10. 	I heard the counsel for both sides and perused the materials placed on record. At the outset, it must be stated that the respondent herein has filed the Execution Petition before the learned Rent Controller with unclean hands by adopting deceitful means and taken delivery of possession on the basis of an exparte order dated 10.02.2004 passed in RCOP No. 1881 of 2003 which was subsequently set aside on 06.07.2004 at the instance of the revision petitioner herein after condoning the delay in filing the petition to set aside the exparte order dated 10.02.2004. 11. 	After restoration of RCOP No. 1881 of 2003, the learned Rent Controller heard the argument of both sides and dismissed RCOP No. 1881 of 2003 on 28.10.2004 holding that the respondent has not proved and established his ownership over the property in question and that there is no proof to show that the relationship of landlord-tenant exist between the parties to the lis. The best part of the order dated 28.10.2004 is that there was no existence of landlord-tenant relationship between the respondent and revision petitioner herein. Thus, even on 28.10.2004, the Rent Control Original Petition filed by the respondent was dismissed and it reached a finality inasmuch as it was not appealed against. 12. 	While facts are so as stated above, after 9 years from the date of dismissal of RCOP No. 1881 of 2003 on 28.10.2004, the respondent herein has filed E.P. No. 250 of 2013 on the basis of the exparte order dated 10.02.2004 passed in RCOP No. 1881 of 2003. Inasmuch as the exparte decree dated 10.02.2004 was subsequently set aside and the Rent Control Original Petition itself was dismissed on 28.10.2004, I hold that the Execution Petition itself is not maintainable as it was filed by playing fraud on the Court. The respondent has filed the Execution Petition by claiming himself to be a decree holder by tracing his position on the basis of the exparte order dated 10.02.2004 which was subsequently set aside. Therefore, the respondent ought not to have filed the Execution Petition and the Execution Petition itself is non-est in the eye of law. 13. 	It is alleged by the respondent that notice was served on the revision petitioner herein in the Execution Petition No. 250 of 2013, which averment has been denied by the revision petitioner. Be that as it may, first of all, the question arise is as to whether the Execution Petition is maintainable in the eye of law when there is no decree at all in existence to be executed. Curiously, when the revision petitioner filed a memo before the learned Rent Controller after delivery was taken, the Execution Petition was posted for clarification and the respondent herein was directed to file his objections. In the objection filed by the respondent herein, he only states that the memo filed by the revision petitioner is not maintainable and that the revision petitioner must be directed to file a Petition seeking re-delivery of possession, in which event, the respondent should be given an opportunity to defend the same legally. No where in the objection, the respondent stated that he was not aware of the order of dismissal passed in RCOP No. 1881 of 2003 on 28.10.2004. 14. 	The learned Rent Controller, after considering the memo filed by the revision petitioner and the objections filed thereof by the respondent, passed an order dated 12.08.2013, as follows:- 15. 	It is evident that the learned Rent Controller categorically held, on perusal of the records that the Execution Petition filed on the basis of exparte order dated 10.02.2004 is non-est in the eye of law and this would only indicate that the respondent herein has taken delivery of possession by adopting deceitful means and by playing fraud on the Court. The respondent has not approached the Executing Court with clean hands. 16. 	The further fallacy committed by the respondent notwithstanding the fact that he has committed fraud on the Court is that he has filed an appeal in R.C.A. No. 392 of 2013 against the order dated 12.08.2013 of the learned Rent Controller, ordering re-delivery. Unfortunately, the appellate authority entertained the appeal filed by the respondent and also granted interim stay on 13.08.2013. The order dated 13.08.2013 reads as follows:- 17. 	It is evident that the Appellate Authority, in the order dated 13.08.2013 has not adverted to any of the findings rendered by the learned Rent Controller relating to fraud committed by the respondent herein and granted interim stay. I am unable to see as to how the appellate authority, could state that the Rent Controller, without adverting to the facts of the case, passed the order dated 12.08.2013. Whereas, the learned Rent Controller, has examined the records and clearly stated that the Execution Petition itself is non-est in the eye of law as there is no decree to be executed. Therefore, the order passed by the appellate authority on 13.08.2013, stating that if interim stay is not granted, the respondent herein will be put to loss is a fallacy. The appellate authority ought not to have entertained the appeal filed by the respondent herein especially when there is no decree to be executed. Therefore, I am of the view that this order passed by the Appellate Authority is per se illegal and cannot be legally sustained. 18. 	Let me now analyse the position of law required for disposal of the Civil Revision Petition. In the decision relied on by the learned counsel for the respondent reported in (M/s. Mahaveer Electric Corporation vs. D. Ashok Kumar and 2 others) 1997 2 CTC 107 this Court took note of the fact delivery was taken by the respondent after contest, the respondent therein obtained order for demolition and re-construction of a building. In those circumstances, the Bailiff returned the warrant with an endorsement stating that there is no building with the description given in the warrant and that the warrant could not be executed. In para-16, this Court culled out the facts of the case as mentioned below:- 19. 	After appreciating the factual matrix, as mentioned in para-16 above, this Court held that at the time of purchase , there was no proceedings pending before the Rent Controller and therefore, the doctrine of lispendence will not apply. In those circumstances, this Court observed that a new building has been put up and in view of such peculiar circumstances, re-delivery could not be ordered. The relevant paragraphs is extracted hereunder:- "20. The right granted under the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 is not a common law right as enunciated by the Transfer of Property Act . But it is only a statutory right created under the said enactment. The purpose of the said Act is only to give protection from eviction. The said protection from eviction is found in the preamble of the Act itself, which is as follows:- The rights conferred under the statute cannot be extended to a person from whom the building has been recovered. It is also very difficult to extend the benefit of the Act to a new building, which was not at all let out to any tenant. It is worthwhile to remember here that as per Section 30 , new buildings are exempted from the purview of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 . Whatever may be said, as on today, the building stands exempted from the purview of the Act. When the Act itself is not applicable to the building in question, it will not be possible for this Court to make this Act applicable and grant redelivery to the petitioner. The redelivery by itself implies that what is to be redelivered is something which was delivered, when what was delivered is not there, the redelivery is impossible." 20. 	In the above decision , this Court held that the very Act itself is not applicable as a new building has come up which is exempted under the Act. Therefore, taking into consideration the facts involved in that case , this Court held that the application for restitution will not fall under Section 18 (1) of the Act and the Revision Petition is not maintainable. Above all, the main reason for such conclusion is that the revision petitioner therein has not pursued his remedy within a reasonable time and that he filed the Civil Revision Petition after lapse of time. Therefore, this decision relied on the counsel for the respondent does not apply to the facts of this case especially where in this case, the respondent committed fraud and obtained possession of the property by adopting deceitful means. 21. In the other decision relied on by the learned counsel for the respondent reported in ( Balakrishnan vs. Rathinam ) 1988 Madras Law Journal 379 this Court took note of the fact that the revision petitioner therein was dispossessed and delivery was taken. Thereafter, the tenant filed a petition for re-delivery. The Rent Controller dismissed it on the ground that the eviction was ordered pursuant to an order passed by contest and not an exparte order. As against the same, the Revision Petition was filed before this Court. In this case, a preliminary question as to maintainability of the Civil Revision Petition was raised before this Court. In those circumstances, this Court held that restitution will not fall under Section 18 (1) of the Act, the revision petition is not maintainable and only a statutory appeal will lie. Therefore, this decision will also not apply to the facts of the case on hand. 22. 	In the present case, the entire proceedings relating to delivery of possession are vitiated by fraud. When an order is obtained by resorting to fraud, all the subsequent proceedings thereto will also render it vitiated. In this context, I am fortified by the decision of this Court reported in ( J. Sivasubramanian and another vs. N. Govindarajan and another ) 1998 1 CTC 470 relied on by the learned counsel for the revision petitioner. In that case, this Court took note of the fact that the suit was filed by suppressing material facts and by not impleading the proper and necessary parties. This Court held that fraud and collusion are palpable and that the decree was obtained by power of attorney agent as against his own principal thereby depriving his right over the property, which was purchased by him from the original owner. As the power agent filed the suit by suppressing the material facts, this Court held that "....in such cases, it is the duty of the Court to see that the suit itself is wiped off from the file." It was also held by this Court that in such circumstances the revision petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India is very much maintainable. In that case, this Court, relying on the decision of the Honourable Supreme Court reported in S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu (dead) by Lrs vs. Jagannath (dead) by Lrs and others, 1994 (1) SCC 1 culled out the legal propositions as follows:- Their Lordships have further said thus:- In the earlier portion of that Judgment, their Lordships have held thus:- The effect of such a decree obtained in such cases is also stated in that judgment thus:- In Mahboob Sahab v. Syed Ismail and others , of the judgment, Their Lordships declared thus:- In paragraph 10, Their Lordships further declared thus:- In Indian Bank v. Satyam Fibres (India) Pvt. Ltd. , it was declared thus:- 23.	By referring to the above decisions, this Court went to the extent of holding that the suit itself has been filed by committing fraud and therefore it was ordered to be struck off as it was non-est in the eye of law. 24. In yet another decision of this Court reported in ( Renuka Devi vs. D. Manoharan ) 1997 (III) CTC 567 relied on by the counsel for the revision petitioner, this Court took note of the fact that interim order was obtained by a person claiming himself to be a tenant and restrained the original owner from interfering with his possession. This Court held that the interim order was obtained by resorting to fraud and based on forged document. It was further held that when the suit itself was filed by resorting to fraud, the revision under Article 227 of the Constitution of India is maintainable. In that case, ultimately, this Court ordered to struck off the suit from the file, directed the plaintiff to handover possession which he took from the defendant fraudulently. In that case also, this Court referred to the decision of the Honourable Supreme Court reported in P.T. Chengalvaraya. This Court also further relied on the decision of the Honourable Supreme Court wherein the scope and nature of proceedings under Article 227 of the Constitution of India was discussed by the Honourable Supreme Court. In para-13 of the decision, this Court relied on the decision of the Honourable Supreme Court reported in Indian Bank vs. Satyam Fibers (India) Pvt Ltd. , 1996 (5) S.C.C. 550 extracted in the earlier paragraph and in the same paragraph, this Court relied upon Para No.23 of the decision of the Honurable Supreme Court wherein it was held as follows:- In paragraph 28, their Lordship said that fraud is an essential ingredient of forgery. In paragraphs 24 to 27 of the Judgment, Their Lordships considered whether forgery is a fraud and whether forgery and fraud were proved in that case . In paragraph 25, it is stated as hereunder:-- 15. In a recent decision of the Supreme Court, this question was considered and the same is reported in Puran Singh and others vs. State of Punjab and others , 1996 (2) S.C.C. 205. In Paragraph 11 of the judgment, their Lordships observed thus: 26. 	Ultimately, this Court even directed to surrender possession and to report compliance before this Court and if possession is not surrendered, this Court held that further directions will be issued. Therefore, when fraud is committed before the Court, the power of the Court to pass appropriate orders under Article 227 of The Constitution of India to subserve the interest of justice is unfettered and re-delivery can also be ordered in a Revision Petition by confirming the order passed by the learned Rent Controller and by setting aside the order of the appellate authority. 27. In the decision reported in ( Roshan Deen vs. Preeti Lal ) 2002 1 CTC 183 which was also relied on by the learned counsel for the Petitioner, the Honourable Supreme Court dealt with the powers that could be exercised by the Courts under Article 227 of The Constitution of India and held that no man should be subjected to injustice by violating the Rule of law. In para Nos. 13, 16, 19, 20 and 21, it was held as follows:- 20. 	We cannot allow the order of the Commissioner dated 19.3.1999 to remain alive even for a moment. It is the byproduct of fraud and cheating. We, therefore, set aside the impugned judgment and restore the order passed by the Commissioner on 11.10.1999. As already a long period of six years has been wasted we direct the Commissioner to expedite the proceedings and dispose of the claim without any further delay. 21. 	Before disposing of this appeal we deem it necessary to make one more direction which, in our opinion, is required for completion of the even course of justice. The Bar Council of the State of Haryana should hold an inquiry into the allegations made by the petitioner against the advocate Rajpal Panwar of Jagadhri as to whether he had played a chicanery to defraud the petitioner by obtaining his thumb impression and paying Rs.9,500/-. We restrain ourselves from making any observation on the merits of the allegations made against the aforesaid advocate. We direct the Registry of this Court to forward a copy of this judgment to the Secretary of the Bar Council of the Haryana. This is to enable the said Bar Council to adopt such steps as they deem fit and necessary for disposal of the disciplinary proceedings as against the said Rajpal Panwar, Advocate, Jagadhri. 28. 	In the above case , the Honourable Supreme Court issued appropriate direction to the Bar Council of Haryana to take necessary action to subserve the interest of justice. 29. In this context, it is worthwhile to refer to the decision of the Honourable Supreme Court reported in ( S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu (dead) by LRs vs. Jagannath (dead) by LRs and others) 1994 1 Law Weekly 21 wherein it was held that when a fraud on the Court is committed, the evidence adduced therein was a nullity and fraud avoids all judicial acts, ecclesiastical or temporal. Any decree or order obtained from Court by playing fraud has to be treated as a nullity by every Court, whether superior or inferior. 30. 	In the present case on hand, the respondent not only cheated the revision petitioner and taken delivery of the property in question but played fraud on the Court by taking advantage of the exparte order initially passed and which was set aside later. Therefore, such an act done by the respondent is per se illegal. Under those circumstances, in exercise of powers conferred under Article 227 of The Constitution of India, this Court can set at naught the illegality committed by the respondent even by striking off the Execution Petition No. 250 of 2013 from the file of the learned XIV Judge, Small Causes Court at Chennai as the filing of the Execution Petition itself is by resorting to fraud on the Court and it is per se illegal. Consequently, the orders passed in the Execution Petition for delivery of possession in favour of the respondent herein is vitiated and delivery cannot be recorded. The delivery of possession, therefore, is also vitiated by an act of fraud committed by the respondent and the delivery alleged to have been effected has no force of law. Under law, the revision petitioner alone is entitled to remain in possession of the property in question and therefore, this Court is of the view that the order dated 12.08.2013 of the learned Rent Controller for re-delivery of possession is upheld and the order dated 13.08.2013, passed in R.C.A. No. 392 of 2013 by the Rent Control Appellate Authority and VIII Judge, Court of Small Causes, Chennai. which is impugned in this Civil Revision Petition, is set aside. The order passed in the Execution Petition No. 250 of 2013 on the file of the learned Rent Controller (IX Judge, Court of Small Causes, Chennai) for delivery of possession and the R.C.A. No. 392 of 2013 on the file of the learned Rent Control Appellate Authority (VIII Judge, Court of Small Causes, Chenai) are hereby ordered to be struck off from their respective files. 31. 	In the result, the Civil Revision Petition is allowed as prayed for. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petition is closed. As the revision petitioner had underwent enormous mental strain and agony for not fault on his part, due to the act of the respondent herein in dispossessing the revision petitioner by playing fraud on the Court, the respondent is liable to compensate the revision petitioner by paying exemplary costs. Accordingly, the respondent is directed to compensate the revision petitioner by paying exemplary costs of Rs.50,000/-.	The respondent is also directed to forthwith handover the possession of the property in question to the revision petitioner, as found in the Execution Petition, namely residential house and ground measuring 300 square feet bearing Old Door No.120, New Door No.9/115, Valluvar Street, Mettukulam, Koyambedu, Chennai  600 092. For reporting compliance, office is directed to post this Civil Revision Petition on 23.10.2013 and if possession is not handed over by the respondent to the revision petitioner herein on or before 22.10.2013, further directions will be issued by this Court on 23.10.2013. The Commissioner of Police, Greater Chennai is hereby directed to give necessary police protection to the revision petitioner to enable him to get peaceful possession of the property in question from the respondent. Office is also directed to place this case before the Honourable Acting Chief Justice, High Court, Madras for passing appropriate orders to take necessary action against the erring officials for having committed fraud on the Court and this should be separately dealt with. 21-10-2013
rsh

Index : Yes / No

Internet : Yes / No

To 1. The VIII Judge
 Court of Small Causes
 Chennai. 2. The IX Judge
 Court of Small Causes
 Chennai 3. The XVI Judge
 Court of Small Causes
 Chennai 4. The Commissioner of Police
 Egmore, Chennai

B. RAJENDRAN, J

rsh C.R.P. (NPD) No. 3402 of 2013 21.10.2013