2. The brief facts of the case of the petitioner are that in the year 2014,

 when the petitioner was studying at XXX University as an M.Sc.

 student, he came across the opposite party no. 2, whom he met on

 Facebook. The petitioner and the opposite party no. 2 became

 acquainted with each other through Facebook and, thereafter, began

 communicating regularly on the said platform. Over time, their 3 2025:CHC-AS:2274

 acquaintance developed into a close relationship, culminating in a

 romantic association between them. They started meeting frequently

 at various public places, including malls, restaurants, etc. They even

 went on short trips together to places such as Digha and Bakhkali,

 during which they took photographs together, intended to be

 preserved as personal memories. It is stated that the said relationship

 was accepted by the families of both parties. 3. In the year 2020, owing to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic

 and the consequent lockdown imposed throughout the State, both

 the petitioner and the opposite party no. 2 returned to their

 respective homes. All of a sudden, the opposite party no. 2 abruptly

 severed all ties with the petitioner, which caused him considerable

 anxiety and concern regarding her unexplained disappearance. 4. Driven by such anxiety and emotional distress, the petitioner sent her

 an email on July 28, 2022, asking about her whereabouts and

 sudden disappearance when he was informed by the opposite party

 no. 2 that she had been forcibly married to one Firojul Islam three

 days back by her parents because they wanted her to settle down as

 soon as possible. 5. The petitioner contacted the mother of the opposite party no. 2 over

 the telephone when he was informed by her that they had found a

 good match for their daughter, for which they got her married to him. 4 2025:CHC-AS:2274

 The mother of the opposite party no. 2 further requested the

 petitioner not to contact her daughter any further, as it would affect

 her marital life. 6. The petitioner wanted some answers from the opposite party no. 2,

 for which he contacted her on Facebook sometime in August 2020,

 asking her why she had done this to the petitioner and also

 reminiscing about the beautiful memories that were shared by them.

 The opposite party no. 2 also indulged in the conversation with the

 petitioner, but she told him that her husband does not know

 anything about their relationship or their free mixing so it was better

 if he stayed quiet about the same. 7. In the meantime, the husband of the opposite party no. 2 came to

 know about his wife's previous relationship and that she had physical

 relations with her ex-boyfriend, being the petitioner and upon

 knowing the same, he became enraged and threatened the petitioner

 that he would have to face dire consequences for these deeds. He also

 directed the opposite party no. 2, being his wife that whether she was

 willing to support him in teaching the petitioner a lesson and as

 such, upon such direction, the opposite party no. 2 started acting on

 the direction of her husband. 8. Upon witnessing such problems, the petitioner deleted the Facebook

 account and cut off all ties with the opposite party no. 2 and blocked 5 2025:CHC-AS:2274

 her from all accessible social media accounts so that both of them

 could lead their lives peacefully. 9. On November 12, 2020, the petitioner received a notice from Suri

 Cyber Crime police station asking the petitioner to appear before the

 Inspector-in-Charge of Suri Cyber Crime police station, wherein he

 appeared and after asking some relevant questions, his laptop and

 mobile phone were taken by the concerned police station, but later

 on, his laptop was again returned to the petitioner. 10. Subsequently, the petitioner got to know that one FIR was registered

 against him by the opposite party no. 2 based on some false and

 frivolous allegations. He was taken into custody by the concerned

 police station in connection with Birbhum Cyber Crime Police Station

 Case No. 03 of 2021 dated January 05, 2021 under Sections

 376 / 417 of the IPC as well as Section 66 of the Information

 Technology Act, 2000 and initiated investigation against the

 petitioner. 11. Though the petitioner is innocent and he has been falsely implicated

 in this case of the alleged offences as both the petitioner and the

 opposite party no. 2 had love affairs for a long period. She also got

 married to another person and is leading the life of her own choice,

 she lodged a false and frivolous complaint alleging several allegations.

 Hence, this Criminal Revisional application. 2025:CHC-AS:2274

 SUBMISSION ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER: 12. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submitted that

 despite being innocent and the fact that he had love affairs since long

 with the opposite party no. 2, the learned trial court framed charge

 against the petitioner under Sections 376 / 417 of IPC and Sections

 66A (a) , (b) and 66E of the IT Act, after filing charge sheet. The

 opposite party no. 2 had already married with someone else.

 Therefore, the entire proceeding is only initiated to ruin his life. If

 such a complaint is allowed to be continued, the petitioner would be

 highly prejudiced, and his whole life would be spoiled; therefore, the

 same would be an abuse of process of law. 13. It was further submitted that the opposite party no. 2 lodged the

 complaint only on such false allegations to save herself from her

 married life, if he disclosed her photos which was taken during visit

 of different places prior to her married life. But, the petitioner had no

 intention to damage her future life when she has already married to

 someone else. 14. He never disclosed such photos either on Facebook or on other social

 media. He never disturbed the happy and healthy married life of the

 opposite party no. 2. Whatever allegations have been made in her

 written complaint are false, fabricated and manufactured. Despite the

 said facts, he suffered incarceration of 40 days. 7 2025:CHC-AS:2274 15. He was released on bail by the Learned Sessions Judge on February

 15, 2021 and, thereafter, filed this Criminal Revisional application

 after framing of charge. The allegations against the petitioner were

 not actually corroborated by the opposite party no. 2 during the

 investigation. 16. The investigating officer had neither recorded any statements of the

 opposite party no. 2 under section 161 of the Cr.P.C. nor her

 statements under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C. during investigation and

 solely relying upon certain seized devices being the laptop and mobile

 phone of the petitioner, the investigating officer, only on his table

 work, perfunctory manner, submitted the charge sheet. 17. The learned Trial Court did not consider their earlier love relations.

 They had a love affair which became well-known to her family

 members and her parents. Petitioner had always intended to marry

 her, but rather the opposite party no. 2, went ahead and got married

 to someone else without informing the petitioner. Therefore, the

 petitioner never committed any offence under Sections 376 / 417 of

 IPC; even those sections are not at all attracted. The other Sections of

 the IT Act is also not attracted against the present petitioner even

 though the learned trial court without assessing all these admitted

 facts, framed charges as aforesaid. Although, at the time of framing 8 2025:CHC-AS:2274

 charge, his lawyer objected the same. Therefore, he prays for

 quashing the proceeding. 18. Learned counsel submitted that no offence, as alleged by the opposite

 party no. 2, committed by the petitioner, when she herself consented

 her physical relation and, subsequently, she herself married to

 someone else. Therefore, sexual intercourse on the false promise of

 marriage is not attracted at all against the present petitioner. To

 support of his contention, he placed reliance of the following

 judgments: 19. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State produced the case

 diary and on his usual fairness submitted that there was a love affair

 between the parties since long. However, after hearing the marriage of

 opposite party no. 2, the petitioner tried to disturb her by different

 manner. That is why the opposite party no. 2 compelled to lodge

 complaint against the petitioner alleging offences as aforesaid and on

 the basis of material available in the charge sheet, the learned trial 1 (2003) 1 C Cr LR (SC) 555; 2019 (1) AICLR 662 (S.C.); 2022 (4) AICLR 578 (S.C.). 2025:CHC-AS:2274

 court had rightly framed charge against the petitioner. He prays for

 dismissal of this Revisional application. DISCUSSION AND FINDINGS BY THIS COURT: 20. Having heard the arguments and submissions made by the learned

 counsels appearing on behalf of both the parties and upon perusal of

 the record, including the case diary, it is revealed that they were

 involved in a love affair since 2015. Admittedly, they started chatting

 on Facebook almost six years ago. 21. From the perusal of the FIR itself, this Court finds the

 petitioner/accused, while doing his Ph.D. from XXX University

 (Department of Physics), allegedly pretended to be a friend of the

 opposite party no. 2 and started chatting on Facebook almost six

 years ago. From the beginning, he tried to earn her trust as a good

 and helpful young man by suggesting good things and avoiding bad

 things. Finally, when she felt alone and, by his apparent helping

 nature, trusted him as a good friend and started sharing a few of her

 personal events with him. Ultimately, it reached to the physical

 relations. However, she realised and requested him to marry as her

 parents are searching for a match. But, his response was purely

 avoidance and insulted her by saying your degree is lower and has no

 value as a wife of his. At that point of time, he started putting

 conditions that he never mentioned to her when he used to sexually 10 2025:CHC-AS:2274

 exploit her with the promise of marriage. That is why she cut off all

 the relations from him and finally got married on 22 nd July, 2020 to a

 good man from a good family background. But, she is afraid that he

 may disrupt her married life. 22. It was further alleged in the FIR that her husband got know about

 her past affairs, and from one photo, his doubt was confirmed. She

 had no option but to admit the truth. He warned against her any

 further contact with the petitioner. On 28.07.2020, she texted the

 petitioner that she got married and all her affairs are disclosed to her

 husband. If he tried to communicate with her any further, she would

 have no option but to commit suicide. In spite of that request, the

 petitioner made a fake account resembling his name and started

 sending continuous messages in Facebook Messenger on 22.08.2020.

 The fake account is named "M........ Y..........". 23. She further disclosed in her written complaint that she is extremely

 insecure that he may take revenge on her marriage by disclosing her

 private photos and damaging her future life. She requested the

 petitioner to delete and destroy all the photos that he took of her,

 either partially or completely unclothed. But, he did not pay any heed

 to that. She also narrated that he threatened to destroy her family if

 she took any action against him. The petitioner tried all means to 11 2025:CHC-AS:2274

 drag her out of her marriage and continue his ill practice of satisfying

 his lust. 24. From the perusal of the aforesaid contention of the opposite party no.

 2, it is very clear that there was a love affair and they had physical

 relations prior to her marriage. Now, she is married to someone else. 25. The allegation under section 376 of the IPC is grounded on the claim

 that the opposite party no. 2 had engaged in sexual relations with the

 petitioner under a promise of marriage which the petitioner never

 intended to fulfil. In order to establish the allegation under the above

 section, the law requires that the promise must be shown to be false

 from the inception, and the victim must have been induced into the

 sexual relationship solely on such false representation. In the instant

 case, even the FIR acknowledges a long-standing relationship. There

 is no allegation that at the inception of the relationship, the petitioner

 deceitfully induced the opposite party no. 2 into intimacy on the basis

 of a fabricated assurance of marriage. Rather, the complaint

 demonstrates that the relationship progressed voluntarily, and

 differences arose only when issues regarding marriage surfaced. The

 fact that the petitioner was allegedly reluctant to marry her, even if

 assumed to be true, does not establish that the promise was false

 from the beginning because it is an admitted fact that they had

 physical relations and occasionally they also took photos. She was 12 2025:CHC-AS:2274

 well aware about the consequence as she was well matured and

 educated. 26. Furthermore, the record reveals that during the investigation, neither

 the statement of the opposite party no. 2 under sections 161 and 164 of the Cr.P.C. was recorded, nor is there any independent material

 corroborating the allegation of alleged offences. 27. As regards the allegation under section 417 of IPC, the prosecution

 must show that the petitioner dishonestly induced the opposite party

 no. 2 to do something she would not have otherwise done. In

 consensual romantic relationships, the element of "dishonest

 inducement" must be clearly established. The material on record,

 even if accepted at face value, does not prima facie make out an

 offence of cheating. 28. With respect to the offences under the Information Technology Act ,

 especially Section 66A , it is pertinent to note that Section 66A of the

 IT Act has been declared unconstitutional and struck down by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India4 .

 Therefore, the charge framed under Sections 66A (a) and 66A (b) is ex

 facie illegal. 29. Coming to section 66E of IT Act, which pertains to violation of privacy

 through capturing, publishing or transmitting images of a private 4 (2015) 5 SCC 1 13 2025:CHC-AS:2274

 area, the opposite party no. 2 does not allege that the petitioner ever

 published or transmitted any such image. Her apprehension that he

 might disclose photographs taken during their relationship does not

 constitute an offence unless there is an overt act of transmission,

 publication, or misuse. The complaint itself states that the

 photographs were taken mutually during their trips and outings, and

 there is nothing on record to suggest that the private image of the

 opposite party no. 2 had been disseminated by the Petitioner. 30. This Court is conscious that offences involving women must be

 approached with sensitivity and seriousness. However, judicial

 sensitivity cannot replace the requirement of legal sufficiency of

 material. When a complaint arises or lodges after the complainant

 has entered a new marital relationship with someone else, and the

 allegations pertain largely to past consensual activities and

 subsequent apprehensions, the Court must cautiously examine

 whether the criminal process is being invoked to settle personal

 scores or to mitigate pressures arising from matrimonial

 circumstances. 31. The facts in this case reflect a relationship that ended on an

 unpleasant note, followed by marital complications of the opposite

 party no. 2 and consequent misunderstandings. The materials

 collected during the investigation do not reveal the essential 14 2025:CHC-AS:2274

 ingredients of the offences alleged. The continuation of the criminal

 proceeding, therefore, would amount to misuse of the criminal justice

 system and cause undue prejudice to the petitioner. 32. Even from alleged fake account, this court does not find any private

 image of the opposite party no. 2 had been disseminated by the

 Petitioner or anybody else. Upon meticulous perusal of all messages,

 this court is of the opinion that those messages do not attract the

 offences punishable under Section 66 E of the I.T. Act. 33. In the light of the above discussion and analysis, this Court is of the

 clear view that the allegations, even if accepted in totality, do not

 constitute offences under Sections 376 or 417 of IPC , nor do they

 establish the ingredients of Section 66E of the IT Act, while charges

 under Section 66A are legally unsustainable in view of the decision in Shreya Singhal (supra). The order dated 16.05.2023 framing charge

 thus cannot be sustained. 34. Accordingly, CRR 2783 of 2024 is, thus, allowed. Connected

 pending applications, if any, are also, thus, disposed of. 35. Consequently, the proceeding being Sessions Case No. 49 of 2021,

 Sessions Trial No. 02(05) of 2023 arising out of Birbhum Cyber Crime

 Police Station Case No. 03 of 2021 dated January 05, 2021 under Sections 376 / 417 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Section 66 of

 the Information Technology Act, 2000, corresponding to G.R. Case 15 2025:CHC-AS:2274

 No. 21 of 2021, subsequently charge sheet has been submitted on

 January 29, 2021 being Charge Sheet No. 03 of 2021 under Sections

 376 / 417 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66 of the Information

 Technology Act pending before the Court of the Learned Additional

 Sessions Judge, 4th Court at Suri, Birbhum is quashed insofar as the

 petitioner is concerned and the order dated May 16, 2023 passed by

 the learned Additional Sessions Judge, 4th Court at Suri, framing

 charge against the petitioner under Sections 376 / 417 of the IPC and Section 66A(a) , (b) and Section 66E of the IT Act is hereby set aside. 36. Let a copy of this Judgment be sent to the learned Trial Court for

 information. 37. Interim order, if any, stands vacated. 38. Case diary, if any, be sent back to the learned counsel for the State. 39. Parties shall act on the server copies of this Judgment uploaded on

 the website of this Court. 40. Urgent photostat certified copy of this Judgment, if applied for, is to

 be given as expeditiously to the parties on compliance of all legal

 formalities. (Ajay Kumar Gupta, J)

 P. Adak (P.A.)