1. It would be trite to quote that a dynamic civil society having Rule of

Law requires strong and efficient criminal justice system. Bounden duty of the State

is that Rule of Law is guaranteed to every citizen of the country. However, criminal

proceedings cannot be instituted/initiated invoking State machinery as a short cut to

other civil remedies, which may otherwise be available in law, merely because the

 1 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -2- same are not equally efficacious. Neither the criminal proceedings are to be resorted

for settling personal civil disputes between the parties nor to get even with an

opposite party or for criminal inculpation to satisfy personal grievance. The rampant

tendency of invoking State criminal machinery in the disputes arising out of

commercial contracts, which are essentially civil in nature, needs to be deprecated. In this context, the Apex Court in case titled as " Sheo Nandan Paswan v. State of

Bihar and others " 1987(1) SCC 288 observed thus: 2. The petitioners herein seek quashing of FIR No. 245 dated 05.08.2015

registered under Sections 406 and 420 IPC read with Sections 3 and 4 of the Prize

Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 (for brevity, Act of

1978), at Police Station Sector 31, Chandigarh. As a sequel thereof, quashing of

consequential proceedings of investigation by the Economic Offences Wing,

Chandigarh has also been sought. I propose to dispose of both the above petitions by

this common order. 3. Petitioner in CWP No. 19355 of 2015, namely, Tupperware India

Private Limited' (for brevity, the Company) is registered under the Companies Act . It

is engaged in the business of manufacturing and selling various products, including

design centric preparations, storage and serving solutions for the kitchen and dining

through its internationally and domestically known brand "Tupperware". 4. Parent company of Tupperware India entity is incorporated in United

States of America (USA). In 1942, Earl Tupper developed his first bell shaped

container; the brand products were introduced to the public in 1948. The worldwide

 2 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -3- sales of the products under the brand name 'Tupperware' from 2012 to 2014 were

2.6 billion USD, 2.7 billion USD and 2.6 billion USD, respectively. The Indian entity

was set up some time in year 1996 after obtaining various statutory approvals from

the Government of India as also from the Reserve Bank of India. 5. Petitioner company subsequently set up a manufacturing unit in State

of Uttrakhand sometime in year 2009. For marketing of its products, the company

uses a methodology what is called in common parlance "person to person" selling, as

the uniqueness of its products and technology, claims the company, requires personal

explanation. The company appoints distributors for sale of its products who are

assigned their respective sale territories. These distributors in turn create a sales

network consisting of Managers and Sale Consultants who are so designated as per

the sales turnover undertaken by them. The relationship between the company and its

distributors is stated to be on principle to principle basis. It is marketed by means of

approximately 1.9 million direct sales people on contract. 6. In CWP No. 19354 of 2015, petitioner Ms. Shilpa Ajwani is the

Managing Director, Ms. Vandita Batta is the Director of Finance, Mr. Chandan Deep

Singh Dang is the Director of Marketing, Mr. Jaideep Abhichandani is the Regional

Sales Head(North) of the Company whereas petitioner No.5 Mr. Michael Lazaro is

the Head Emerging Markets. 7. Before proceeding further, it is appropriate to advert to the background

of the case and the circumstances under which the dispute has arisen inter se the

complainant and the petitioners, though they may be at variance on some of the

factual aspect. 8. The impugned FIR dated 05.08.2015 was got registered by Ms. Seema

Arya (hereinafter referred to as the complainant), who had earlier served the

Company as its Sales Development Manager at Chandigarh from 10.10.2011 to

28.02.2013. The complainant was interested to avail the distribution rights of the

 3 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -4- company products for the area of Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali, Kharar and

Shimla. She entered into a distribution agreement with the Company on 05.03.2013,

which was later renewed on 01.07.2013. Since a previous distributor of Company,

namely Ms. Remy Kakkar, having distribution rights for the same area, wanted to

quit the business, an assignment deed was entered between her and the complainant

on 18.08.2013 under which the former transferred her business in favour of the

complainant for a goodwill amount of Rs.22,28,409/-. It was followed by execution

of a tripartite agreement dated 18.08.2013 inter se the complainant, the outgoing

distributor and the Company. Certain dispute arose qua payment of money, inter se

parties, leading to the issuance of legal notice dated 12.06.2015 by the Company

seeking invocation of arbitration in terms of Clause 26 of the Renewal Distribution

Agreement dated 01.07.2013 (Annexure P-4). Consequently, an Arbitrator has been

appointed to adjudicate upon the disputes between the Company and the

complainant. 9. The complainant submitted a complaint dated 12.02.2015 Annexure

P/12 to the police. On its basis, impugned FIR (Annexure P-24) was registered by

name against petitioners No. 1-5 in CWP 19354/2015 and also two non petitioners

namely CEO Rickgoing and Ms. Asha Gupta. The investigating officer issued notice

under Section 160 Cr.P.C. to CEO Rickgoing, Tupperware Brands Corporation, USA,

Ms. Asha Gupta, Group President, Asia Pacific, Tupper Brands(Singapore), Mr. Michael

Lazaro, MD, Tupperware Bangladesh Private Ltd., Ms. Shilpa Ajwani, Managing Director,

Tupperware India Private Limited (w.e.f. 05.06.2015), Ms. Vandita Batta, CFO,

Tupperware India Private Limited, Mr. Chandan Dang, Director Marketing, Tupperware

India Private Ltd., Mr. Jaideep Abhichandani, Regional Sales Manager, North Region,

Tupperware India Private Limited, Ms. Gagan Anand, Sales Development Manager,

North Region, Tupperware India Private Ltd. The relevant contents of the FIR are reproduced hereunder : Subject : Complaint against the Managing Director, Tupperware
India Pvt. Ltd. A 1, Udyog Vihar, Sector 18 Gurgaon, (Hr.).

Respected Sir,
I was approached by the company representative with an idea to start
the business of Tupperware product, which is direct selling from one
person to one person and that through open market. This concept was
unique and seems to be profitable. Since the product can be sold in the
region through me and mine sales force only as the same cannot be
sold in an open market as per the company policy. 2. That as per the statement and assurance given by the
representative of the company, I was appointed as Distributor by the
Tupperware company in view of agreement dated 05.03.2013 for
Chandigarh region. In the said agreement it was stated therein that the
sale of the Tupperware product will be through direct marketing
system and will be operated through distributor appointed by the
company and their sales force in accordance with policies.
Accordingly I had been informed that I will be appointed for
Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali, Kharar and Shimla. I had been
shown that I will be the only eligible distributor of the area and sale
with 45 managers will yield more than 2.5 lac per month. It has also
been disclosed that the product can only be sold through direct
marketing to a person and not through retail. As per the agreement
Clause 7, it was stated that the company will assist the distributor in
promoting and marketing of the product. It was also assured that no
other person will be allowed to sale the product through retail or
directly to the force team. My client on this allurement entered into the
agreement. 3. That I took a shop on rent (bigger in size as per the direction
of the official) and renovate the same (as per direction by the officials)
by taking huge loan. 4. That I have also been directed to enter into a tripartite
agreement between the company, outgoing distributor (Mrs. Remy

 5 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -6- Kakkar proprietor of M/s Jhimli arty Sales) with regard to facilitate
her. I objected to it but then was threatened that contract will be
cancelled and no team force will be given. I had already spent a lot of
money in the business. Thus under the compelling circumstances, as I
have invest a lot of money and thus entered into a settlement. As per
the said agreement it was decided that I will pay `22,28,409/- as
goodwill amount to the outgoing distributor against the transfer of her
sale force/distributorship to me. I have been shown that approximately
75 managers are there at the time of interview. But there after while
calculating goodwill amount, it was reduced to 35 managers, who
were transferred and according to that the said was calculated. It
shows that approximately 40 managers were fake. It is relevant to
mention herein that I have not even seen the faces of the so called
managers, who vanished. It is submitted herein that the said managers
were not be actual one rather it was shown to be excessive. The same
is proved from the fact that the only first entry was ut by them/their
sales force in the sale account and thereafter they vanished because
they were the forged one. It is submitted that after two months, only 18
managers left. It clearly shows that I have been defrauded by the
outgoing distributor by showing the excessive unit manager in
collusion with the company. 5. That not only this, the outgoing distributor is still doing the
business of the present company and she is representing herself to be a
distributor of your company. I along with company representative had
gone to the office of outgoing distributor in Sector 34, Chandigarh and
caught her red handed selling the products on the asking of company's
representative. The display board of Tupperware was removed from
her office. It clearly shows that she is still into the business and
showing her to be a distributor of Tupperware. As per Clause 10 of the
agreement, the outgoing distributor is not entitled for goodwill amount
as she has violated the terms and conditions of the agreement. I made
a complaint against her to the company and their goodwill amount.
The company instead of helping me, started threatening me of dire
consequences. It clearly shows that the company has played fraud with
me by showing me only distributor in the region and the outgoing
distributor has resigned and will not be working and for this I am

 6 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -7- paying the goodwill amount. 6. That not only this the company has promised that the product
will be sold through distributor only in the area. But beside sale
through outgoing distributor, I came to know that the product is being
sold through internet by various companies. It clearly shows that the
company has played fraud with me. Not only this the sales force as
well as the members made by me are complaining fraud against the
company. A copy of the said complaint is attached for your kind
consideration. 7. That now scenario is that the person including sales force of
my client is getting the product of Tuppeware at more than 40%
discount from the other person to whom the company is supplying the
product. The Tupperware product as stated to be not to sell through
retail is in fact a misnomer. It is open and everybody can buy the
product through internet or through outgoing distributor. This clearly
shows that I have been defrauded by the Tupperware company, which
has put me into a loss of more than 50 lacs. 8. That I called the company to settle the final amount with me
on breach of the agreement by the company, but the company has
refused and secondly admitting the fraud that the Tupperware item is
being sold openly but has stated that nothing can be done against it is
not only me rather all the other female members have been defrauded
by the company by showing it to be sale through person to person and
no retail. 9. That a bare perusal of these facts clearly shows that the
company has played a fraud upon me by showing me a business of
sale of Tupperware through direct to direct person only and not to
open market. Whereas the product is being sold openly. Secondly, the
company has played a fraud upon me by directing me to give
approximately Rs.22 lacs to outgoing distribution for giving the sale
force to me and for not selling the product. But the company in
collusion with the outgoing distributor to sell the product openly and
when I apprised the fact, the company threatened me instead of
stopping the goodwill amount of outgoing distributor. Thus the
company has played fraud on me by misrepresenting and even
threatening me. 7 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -8- 10. That I have also come to know that the business of company
 is against the Prize and Chits and Money Circulation Scheme Act,
 1978. The same may be investigated. I therefore request you to take
 legal appropriate action against the company as they have played
 fraud on me." Pursuant to the above FIR, the investigation was later transferred to Economic

Offence Wing, Chandigarh. 10. The petitioners case is that by registering the FIR, their fundamental

rights have been violated. The complaint does not disclose any offence and

complainant has lodged the police report as an arm-twisting measure to settle a civil

dispute by resorting to criminal proceedings, irrespective of the fact that there was

arbitration clause in the distributorship agreement entered between the parties and

the same was invoked by the Company. 11. In the reply filed by the investigating agency, it is averred that on

receipt of the complaint, preliminary enquiries were conducted and after taking legal

opinion in the matter, FIR was registered. During investigation it was found that not

only the complainant but various other persons were cheated and defrauded by the

Company and its Management by presenting illusionary facts and figures concerning

sale and man-power. The complainant was misled by assuring her to be the sole

distributor of the Chandigarh region and was forced to pay goodwill amount to the

outgoing distributor, whereas the latter despite entering into the agreement to quit,

continued doing business of the Company representing herself to be the distributor

and all this was done by her in connivance with the Company. Not only this, the

Company in connivance with different entities permitted the sale of its products

online, which resulted in loss to the complainant and wrongful gain to the Company.

It is also mentioned that the Company is doing the business by enrolling new

members by charging `800/- as membership fee/ recruitment kit charges by alluring

 8 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -9- that the sale of its products would be on principal to principal basis. Every member

has to further make new members under him/ her. Members achieving higher

position in pyramid by recruiting more members and higher sale of products are

allured with easy and quick money in cash and kind in the form of prizes like

televisions, air conditioners etc., whereas, the reality is otherwise. The gullible

women fall prey to their evil design and are being cheated firstly, by purchasing the

products of the Company at higher rates and then secondly, by being forced to sell

the same at loss because the same products are available online at a heavy discount.

The Company indulged in this pyramid scheme without taking approval from the

competent authority viz., Reserve Bank of India. It is averred that the Company not only cheated the innocent people but

they also violated the instructions/guidelines issued by the Government from time to

time concerning their business. According to the investigating agency, a prima facie

case for commission of offences under Sections 406 , 420 IPC read with Sections 3 and 4 of the Act of 1978 is made out against the petitioners. The matter requires in-

depth investigation, which has been put at halt due to non-cooperation of the

petitioners. Dismissal of the petitions has thus been sought. 12. In the return filed by the complainant/ respondent, it is admitted that

she remained employed with M/s Tupperware as whole time Sales Development

Officer at Chandigarh from 10.10.2011 to 28.02.2013; distribution agreement dated

05.03.2013 Annexure P/3 and Distribution Renewal Agreement dated 01.07.2013

Annexure P/4 were entered into between the complainant and the Company; deed

of assignment dated 18.08.2013 Annexure P/5 was also executed between the

outgoing distributor Ms. Remy Kakkar and the complainant and it was followed by

execution of tripartite agreement dated 18.08.2013 Annexure P/6 inter se the

complainant, the outgoing distributor Ms. Remy Kakkar and the company. Per complainant, she was given false assurance of sole distributorship

 9 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -10- of the Company, whereas the Company in connivance with other online companies

sold its product in the open market at heavy discounts. The intention of the

Company, right from the beginning, was to cheat and defraud her. Deliberately,

wrong facts and figures were shown only to extract maximum possible good-will

amount from the complainant. Even the outgoing distributor, despite having received

the goodwill amount, continued running the business showing herself to be the

distributor of the Company which disentitled her to claim good-will amount. Still,

the Company forced the complainant to pay the goodwill amount. The action of the Company in selling the products by recruiting

members after charging `800/- as membership fee, without any approval and alluring

them by providing incentive amounts/prizes, is in violation of the provision of Act of

1978. The members are being misled that the sale of the products would be on

principal to principal basis, whereas online sale of products was done at heavy

discount, which amounts to cheating and causing wrongful loss to the members. Complainant has also averred that there was no condition of giving of

distributorship on non-exclusive basis in the initial agreement dated 05.03.2013 and

that the Company got the agreement renewed under coercion, which is evident from

the fact that in the renewal agreement it was mentioned in Clause 9.25 that the

Company would have full control over sale of the products via internet, whereas the

Company forbid the distributors and sales teams from selling the products through

internet, which is illegal. Complainant has alleged that all the petitioners are responsible for day to

day affairs of the Company and all of them are vicariously liable for the acts of

omission and commission done on behalf of the Company. It is not denied that there

was arbitration clause in the agreement between the parties, but it is averred that

arbitration proceedings were opted by the petitioners to save themselves from the

criminal proceedings. Even otherwise, both the proceedings viz. Criminal and

 10 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -11- arbitration, can go on simultaneously and merely because an act has a civil profile is

not sufficient to denude it of its criminal outfit. There are specific allegations against

the petitioners, substantiated during the investigation, which is going on fairly and in

a right direction. According to the complainant, there is no violation of fundamental

rights of the petitioners. The present writ petitions are not maintainable as only one

forum i.e. either Article 226 of Constitution of India or Section 482 Cr.P.C. is

available to them and not both. 13. I have heard learned Senior counsel for the petitioners as also learned

Standing counsel for UT Chandigarh and learned counsel for the complainant and

have carefully gone through the respective pleadings as also the documents

appended therewith. 14. Opening his arguments, learned Senior counsel for the petitioners

would contend that a perusal of the FIR reveals that no criminality is made out

against the petitioners, who are even not named in the complaint and merely by

mentioning that cheating has been done, does not suffice to attract the penal

provisions. According to him, the complainant has failed to show commission of any

offence, as the petitioners never cheated or committed any breach of trust. The

allegations in the complaint, do not constitute any offence under Sections 406 and 420 IPC. He pointed out that despite no one being named by the complainant in the

FIR, the police with malafide intention has arraigned the top office bearers of the

Company even without knowing their roles and responsibilities. Learned Senior counsel further contended that while lodging the FIR,

the complainant concealed the material facts of her previous employment with the

Company prior to taking distributorship. According to him, she was well versed with

the business module and functioning of the Company and of her own volition she

opted to become distributor of the Company and it was on 'non-exclusive basis'. It

 11 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -12- does not now lie in her mouth to stage a volte face and say that she was kept in dark

about the business pattern and was thus cheated. Learned Senior counsel for the petitioners further submitted that the

dispute is purely of civil nature, arising out of business transactions and the matter is

subjudice before the Arbitrator as per the provisions in the agreement. According to

him, shoe is in fact on the other foot and it is a classic case where process of criminal

law has been abused by the complainant just to wriggle out of her contractual

obligation to pay the goodwill amount and dues of the Company. To generate

pressure on the petitioners, she lodged the complaint with the police on false and

baseless allegations. Learned Senior counsel for the petitioners also argued that the

complainant has miserably failed to show that there was an entrustment of the

property, and if at all such entrustment was there, then also she has to show that there

was misappropriation or conversion or disposal of the same for the petitioners' use.

Regarding Section 420 IPC, he argued that the essential elements of dishonest

inducement to deliver the property, to alter, to destroy the valuable security and the

mens rea are amiss in the present set of facts and circumstances. According to him, it

is a fit case where this Court should exercise the inherent powers under Article 227 of the Constitution of India read with Section 482 Cr.P.C. to quash the FIR. 15. Per contra, learned Standing counsel for UT Chandigarh sought to

justify the registration of FIR and submitted that during investigation cognizable

offences are prima facie made out against the petitioners. According to him, the

petitioners indulged in cheating and defrauding innocent people. Further

investigations are required to be conducted and no case for interference by this Court

at the threshold, is made out. 16. Learned counsel for the complainant has submitted that the complaint

prima facie discloses the commission of offences under Sections 406 , 420 IPC read

 12 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -13- with Sections 3 and 4 of the Act of 1978. In support of his submissions, he

threadbare traversed and invited my attention to the averments made in the FIR to

contend that there are specific allegations against the petitioners, who induced the

complainant to become distributor of the Company and caused financial loss to her

running in lakhs of rupees and wrongful gain to them. He has further argued that the

FIR is not an encyclopedia and the complainant is not required to detail each and

every aspect and it is for the investigating agency to unearth the truth. He has further asserted that this Court cannot assume the role of trial

Court to embark upon an enquiry as to the reliability of the material on record.

Whether the dispute is of civil nature or not, could be decided only after recording of

evidence and the petitioners would have an opportunity to prove their case at the

trial. According to learned counsel for the complainant, powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C or Article 227 of the Constitution cannot be exercised to stifle legitimate

investigation, at this stage of inception of proceedings. He further propounded that

exercise of inherent powers under the provisions ibid, is only an exception and not

the rule and that the said power has to be used very sparingly, which is not warranted

in this case. 17. The first question which arises for determination is whether this

Court can exercise its inherent powers to quash the criminal proceedings. 18. Let us have a glance of the law enunciated from time to time, relating

to the ambit for exercise of the inherent powers of the High Court under Section 482

of the code read with Articles 226/ 227 of the Constitution to quash the criminal

proceedings. 19. Broad guidelines have been postulated by the Apex Court for exercise

of the powers under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution or under Section 482 of

the Code in the case of State of Haryana and others Vs. Ch. Bhajan Lal and others ,

AIR 1992 SC 604, which read as under:- 20. The Apex Court in M/S. Pepsi Foods Ltd. & Anr v. Special Judicial

Magistrate & Ors. , 1998 AIR (SC) 128, has clearly held that though the Magistrate

can discharge the accused at any stage of the trial if he considers the charge to be

groundless, but that does not mean that the accused cannot approach the High Court

under Section 482 of the Code or Article 227 of the Constitution to have the

proceeding quashed against him when the complaint does not make out any case

against him and still he has to undergo the agony of a criminal trial. 21. Similarly, in Madhavrao Jiwaji Rao Scindia & Ors. v. Sambhajirao

Chandrojirao Angre & Ors. , 1988 AIR 709, the Apex Court has observed that when a

prosecution at the initial stage is asked to be quashed, the test to be applied by the

Court is as to whether the uncontroverted allegations made prima facie establish the

offence. It is also for the Court to take into consideration any special features which

appear in a particular case to consider whether it is expedient in the interest of justice

to permit a prosecution to continue. This is so on the basis that the Court cannot be

 15 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -16- utilized for any oblique purpose and where in the opinion of the Court chances of an

ultimate conviction are bleak and, therefore, no useful purpose would be served by

allowing a criminal prosecution to continue, the court may, while taking into

consideration the special facts of a particular case also quash the proceedings, even

though it may be at a preliminary stage. 22. It is thus clear that this Court has sufficient powers to quash the criminal

prosecution if it finds that initiation or continuance of the criminal proceedings amounts

to abuse of the process of Court or quashing of the proceedings would otherwise serve

the ends of justice, when no offence is disclosed by the complaint. This Court, in a given

case, can indubitably exercise its constitutional jurisdiction under Articles 226/ 227 read

with the power vested under Section 482 of Code in a given case, as in the case in hand,

where violation of fundamental rights as enshrined under Articles 14 , 19(1)(g) and 21 of

Constitution of India is involved. The very purpose for exercising such power is to

avoid agony of undergoing a criminal trial to the concerned persons, especially when the

complaint and/ or FIR makes out no case against them or a dispute is of a civil nature. 23. Adverting to the case in hand, it may be noted at the outset that as per the

head note (subject) of the complaint Annexure P/12, the complaint was lodged only against

the Managing Director, Tupperware India Limited,Gurgaon. However, while registering the

FIR Annexure P/24, the concerned police official recorded the following note: 24. As already noted above, the complainant had lodged the complaint of

her grievance only against the Managing Director of Tupperware, Gurgaon. In the

complaint, it was no where indicated if petitioners No.2-5 in CWP 19354/2015 and

the aforesaid two non petitioners namely CEO-Rickgoing and Ms. Asha Gupta had

done or omitted to do anything in the developments, dealings and transactions with

the complainant, which could give rise to her grievance against them. Police

proceedings ( reproduced above) recorded while registering the FIR also do not

show if any of the petitioners No.2-5 in CWP 19354/2015 and the aforesaid two

non petitioners namely CEO-Rickgoing and Ms. Asha Gupta had done or omitted

to do anything to warrant registration of the FIR against them. There is thus

nothing at all, either in the complaint or the aforesaid proceedings recorded by

the police while registering the FIR, to show any role and criminality of the

aforesaid other petitioners No.2-5 and the two non-petitioners namely CEO-

Rickgoing CEL Ms. Asha Gupta, Group President. Neither is it recorded as to how

they were identified and/ or found liable and thus named in the impugned FIR

 17 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -18- Annexure P/24 as the accused persons. 25. FIR Annexure P/24 does not even show, if before its registration, the

police had held any inquiry and, if yes, on that inquiry, the police found that they

were also liable for the offences in question. 26. It is intriguing to note that while the complaint was only against the

Managing Director of the Company, yet the police went out of the way and also

roped in and registered the FIR by name against petitioners No. 2-5 and the two

non-petitioners namely CEO-Rickgoing from USA and CEL from Singapore Ms.

Asha Gupta, Group President. That too, without showing on record any material at

all, let alone justifiable incriminating material for registering the FIR by name

against them. The manner in which petitioners No. 2-5 and the said two non-

petitioners namely CEO-Rickgoing, CEL Ms. Asha Gupta, Group President were

roped in and named as accused in FIR registered by the police is far from the

usual and leaves much to be desired. 27. Settled law seems that mere presence of formal words in the

complaint alleging the ingredients of a particular offence, even when such

allegations are ex facie unbelievable and unacceptable, would not justify the

registration of the FIR on patently unbelievable and unacceptable allegations. 28. Let us now examine whether allegations in the complaint taken at their

face value, are believable and acceptable to a reasonably prudent person. If yes,

whether the same constitute the offences as defined under Sections 406 , 420 IPC

and/ or Sections 3 and 4 of the Act of 1978. 29. Admitted facts are that the complainant remained employed as whole

time Sales Development Officer with M/s Tupperware at Chandigarh from

10.10.2011 to 28.02.2013; distribution agreement dated 05.03.2013 Annexure P/3

and Distribution Renewal Agreement dated 01.07.2013 Annexure P/4 were executed

between the complainant and the Company; deed of assignment dated 18.08.2013

 18 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -19- Annexure P/5 was executed between the outgoing distributor Ms. Remy Kakkar

and the complainant and it was followed by a tripartite agreement dated 18.08.2013

Annexure P/6 inter se the complainant, the outgoing distributor Ms. Remy Kakkar

and the company. 30. Succinctly, the relevant factual allegations in the complaint are that : (c) It was disclosed that the product can only be sold through direct
 marketing and not through retail. (d) Complainant was compelled to enter into tripartite agreement with
 the outgoing distributor (Remy Kakkar) and the company on threat of
 cancellation of contract. (e) Complainant was shown that there were approximately 75
 managers at the time of interview but thereafter while calculating the
 goodwill amount, it was reduced to 35 managers and thus 40 managers
 were fake. (f) Outgoing distributor was still representing herself to be a distributor
 and doing the business in the area in violation of clause 10 of the
 tripartite agreement. (g) Complainant came to know that the product was being sold through
 internet by various companies. (h) Persons including members of sales force of the complainant, are
 getting the product at more than 40% discount from other persons, to

 19 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:09 ::: -20- whom the company is supplying the product. Any body can buy the
 product through internet or through outgoing distributor. It has put the
 complainant to loss of more than Rs. 50 lacs. In the background of aforesaid allegations, the complainant accused

the company of playing fraud on her by showing her a business of sale of

Tupperware through direct to direct person only and not in open market. Whereas,

the product was/ is being sold openly. Secondly, company has played a fraud on the

complainant by directing her to give approximately Rs.22 lacs to outgoing distributor

for giving her sales force to the complainant and for not herself selling the

product. The company is in collusion with the outgoing distributor to sell the

products openly. When apprised of this fact, instead of stopping payment of the

goodwill amount to the outgoing distributor, the company threatened the

complainant. Complainant also alleges that she came to know that that the business

of the company is in violation of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schems

(Banning) Act, 1978. 31. Question is whether or not the allegations at (a) to (h) or any of

them, are believable and acceptable to a person of ordinary prudence. In my

opinion, the answer to this question is in the negative for the following reasons:. (a) Admittedly, the complainant remained employed with M/s
 Tupperware as whole time Sales Development Officer at
 Chandigarh from 10.10.2011 to 28.02.2013. Ms. Remy Kakkar
 was the distributor for the same area from 2004 till
 18.08.2013, when she assigned her distributorship to the
 complainant vide assignment deed dated 18.08.2013. It is
 unbelievable that the complainant, having worked as a whole
 time Sale Develoment Officer at Chandigarh from 10.10.2011
 to 28.02.2013 with M/s Tupperware, would not have known,
 when she took the distributor ship on 05.03.2013 from the
 company, that Ms. Remy Kakkar was already working as
 distributor for the same area. Furthermore, both of them were

 20 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -21- simultaneously and independently holding the distributorship
of the company for the same area from 05.03.2013 to
18.08.2013. There is not even a whisper in the complaint that
the complainant was ignorant of this reality. In the
circumstances, the Court is inclined to assume and proceed on
the premise that when the complainant took the distributor
ship on 05.03.2013 from the company, she was well aware
of the reality that Ms. Remy Kakkar was already working as
distributor for the same area. (b) Tripartite Agreement dated 18.08.2013 Annexure P/6
contains specific recital ( A) that the company had appointed
the outgoing distributor as a distributor for its products in
terms of a distribution agreement dated 09.12.2004 on a non-
exclusive basis. It was during the subsistence of the said
distribution agreement dated 09.12.2004 on a non-exclusive
basis between the company and Ms. Remy Kakkar that the
complainant entered into the distribution agreement dated
05.03.2013 Annexure P/3 with the company for the same
distribution area. (c) While the distributorship of Ms. Remy Kakkar was
still continuing, the complainant took the distributorship for the
same distribution area from 05.03.2013 vide distribution
agreement Annexure P/3. It is unbelievable that during the
subsistence of distributorship of Ms. Remy Kakkar on non-
exclusive basis till after 05.03.2013 and known to the
complainant, the Company would have represented to the
complainant that her distributorship would be on an
exclusive basis for the same area and would/could have
thereby induced the complainant to enter into the distribution
agreement dated 05.03.2013. (d) Distributor's agreement dated 05.03.2013 Annexure
P/3 was admittedly executed between the complainant and the
company. It is quite an elaborate and formal document running
into 28 pages, specifying in detail the terms and conditions
agreed upon between the parties. If, as alleged by the
complainant, it had been represented to her that the product

 21 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -22- could be sold in the region only through her and her sales force
 and not in open market as per the company policy, such a
 condition would have definitely been incorporated in the
 distribution agreement itself, which was/is quite formal in
 nature and contains elaborate and detailed terms and conditions
 agreed upon. In fact, to the contrary, as per clause 9.25 of this
 agreement, the complainant had acknowledged that the national
 and international nature of the internet requires the company or
 the related company to assume full control over the promotion
 and sale of the products via the internet. There is no recital
 and/or condition- express sor implied- in the distribution
 agreement that it was represented to her that the product could
 be sold in the region only through her and her sales force and
 could not be sold in open market as per the company policy.
 Learned counsel for the respondents could not point out to any
 thing in this document - express or impled- to show if thereby
 it had been represented to the complainant that the product
 could be sold in the region only through her and her sales force
 and by none else and could not be sold in open market as per
 the company policy. (e) There is absolutely nothing -express or implied- in
 the distributor's agreement Annexure P/3 to show that
 complainant was informed that she will be the only eligible
 distributor of the area; the sale with 45 managers will yield
 more than 2.5 lacs per month or that it was disclosed that the
 product can only be sold through direct marketing and not
 through retail. Any policy of the company has not been produced, whereby the sale of

the products in open market was prohibited. All this shows the patent falsehood of

the complainant's allegations in this behalf. Facts and circumstances show that the

complainant very well knew, when she entered into the initial distribution

agreement, that her distributor ship was on non-exclusive basis. 32. Same and/ or similar is the position qua the allegations that the

complainant was informed that she will be the only eligible distributor of the area; 22 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -23- the sale with 45 managers will yield more than 2.5 lacs per month and that it was

disclosed that the product can only be sold through direct marketing and not

through retail. 33. It cannot, therefore, be said , on the basis of complaint allegations,

that it was falsely represented to the complainant that the distributorship was on

an exclusive basis, or that the sale with 45 managers will yield more than 2.5 lacs

per month or that it was disclosed that the product can only be sold through direct

marketing and not through retail. and/or on such representation, she was induced

to execute the initial distribution agreement dated 05.03.2013. 34. Thus, in the execution of distribution agreement(Annexure P-3), no

offence under section 405 or 420 IPC can be said to have been committed. 35. Coming to the Distribution Renewal Agreement dated 01.07.2013

(Annexure P-4) executed between the complainant and the Company. It recites that

upon the expiry of the original distribution agreement, the parties were entering

into this Distribution Renewal Agreement and same (shall) stand expired on

30.06.2016. Thus the initial Distribution Agreement dated 05.03.2013 Annexure

P/3 remained in force only from 05.03.2013 to 30.06.2013. 36. It is not even alleged in the complaint and not even a single instance

has been specified to show that during the period covered by the initial

Distribution Agreement Annexure P/3 ( from 05.03.2013 to 30.06.2013), the

Company had sold the product in the complainant's distribution area in open

market or that such sale was in violation of its contract with the complaint.

Assuming for a moment, without holding, that there was some implied condition in

the initial distribution agreement or there was any oral agreement or representation

made to the complainant that the company would not sell the product in the

complainant's distribution area in open market and that such sale was in violation of

its contract with the complaint, the same being a breach of agreement, would at the

 23 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -24- most give rise only to civil consequences and would not attract any criminal liability

at all. 37. There is categorical recital in the Distribution Renewal Agreement

dated 01.07.2013(Annexure P/4) that the Company had thereby renewed the

appointment of the distributor (complainant) on non-exclusive basis and the

Company shall have the right to appoint one or more additional distributors within

the same distribution area. Further, it provides that the company may sell the

products to large accounts for resale to consumers within the distribution area.

Thus, it had been specifically agreed vide distribution renewal agreement dated

01.07.2013(Annexure P/4) between the parties thereto that for the period from

01.07.2013, the complainant's distributorship was on non-exclusive basis. In the

execution of this distribution renewal agreement dated 01.07.2013 Annexure P/4

also, no offence under section 405 or 420 IPC can be said to have been committed. 38. Next comes the deed of assignment dated 18.08.2013 (Annexure P/5)

executed by the outgoing distributor Ms. Remy Kakkar in favour of the

complainant. It may be noted here that vide this assignment deed, the parties thereto

( the complainant and the outgoing distributor Ms. Remy Kakkar) had fixed and

settled the good will amount at Rs. 22,28,409/-. The complainant had obligated

herself to pay the same to the assignor (outgoing distributor Ms. Remy Kakkar).

There is no role , let alone any criminality, ascribed to the company or any of the

petitioners, in its execution. 39. Coming now to the tripartite agreement dated 18.08.2013(Annexure

P/6) inter se, the complainant, the outgoing distributor (Ms. Remy Kakkar) and the

company entered into on 18.08.2013. Its perusal shows that the deed of assignment

by the outgoing distributor Ms. Remy Kakkar in favour of the complainant had

already been executed prior to the execution of this tripartite agreement. 40. Recitals A to F and the terms and conditions No. (1) and (10) of the

 24 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -25- tripartite agreement dated 18.08.2013 Annexure P/6, which are relevant, are

reproduced below: 25 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -26- pay an amount of Rs.22,28409/- (Rupees Twenty Two Lacs Twenty
 Eight Thousand Four Hundred and Nine Only) (hereinafter referred to
 as the "Goodwill Amount") to the Outgoing Distributor against
 transfer of her Sales Force/Distributorship to the Successor
 Distributor in terms of the Deed of Assignment, subject to the terms
 thereof. 2. Xxx... 10. The Outgoing Distributor agrees and accepts that her
 entitlement to claim Goodwill Amount is against a fair and effective
 transfer of her Sales force to the Successor Distributor, and therefore,
 after termination of and/or effective transfer of her distributorship, the
 Outgoing Distributor shall not represent herself as a Distributor of the
 Company, nor shall the Outgoing Distributor deal with products in
 any manner without prior written consent of the Company. The
 Outgoing Distributor acknowledges that her indulgence in any
 marketing of the products after termination of her distributorship, or
 in unethical activities like poaching members of the Sales Force of the
 Successor Distributor or of any other Distributor, shall disentitle her
 from claiming the Goodwill Amount from the Successor Distributor. As
 such, upon receipt of a communication from the Successor Distributor
 in writing informing any such unethical activity on part of the
 Outgoing Distributor, the Company shall discontinue payment of
 further Goodwill Amount to the Distributor without prejudice to its
 rights against the Outgoing Distributor otherwise. The Outgoing
 Distributor shall have no right to claim any outstanding Goodwill
 Amount or any such amount from the Company whatsoever." 41. As noted above, vide Assignment deed dated 18.08.2013 Annexure

P/5, the parties thereto ( the complainant and the outgoing distributor Ms. Remy

Kakkar) had already agreed upon and determined a sum of Rs. 22,28,409/- as the

good will amount, payable by the complainant to the assignor (Ms. Remy Kakkar).

The tripartite agreement was executed subsequent to the assignment deed dated

18.08.2013. 42. The recitals/terms of the tripartite agreement, reproduced above, show

 26 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -27- that it was at the request of the outgoing distributor and the complainant that the

company had agreed only to act as the facilitator for the payment of goodwill

amount already fixed/determined by and between the complainant to the outgoing

distributor. Of course, this tripartite agreement provides that " upon receipt of a

communication from the successor distributor in writing informing any such

unethical activity on the part of the outgoing distributor, the company shall

discontinue payment of further goodwill amount to the distributor without

prejudice to its (Company's) rights against the outgoing distributor otherwise. The

outgoing distributor shall have no right to claim any outstanding goodwill amount or

any such amount from the company whatsoever." 43. In relevant para 4 of the complaint (incorporated in FIR), the
complainant has alleged as under: Perusal of record as above shows that firstly, vide Assignment deed dated

18.08.2013 (Annexure P/5), the parties thereto ( the complainant and the outgoing

distributor Ms. Remy Kakkar) had already fixed the good will amount at

`22,28,409/- payable by the complainant to the assignor (outgoing distributor Ms.

 27 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -28- Remy Kakkar). This being the situation, the company and/or the petitioners had no

role to play or occasion to project the wrong number of the managers/work

force for fixation of the goodwill amount. It follows that the petitioners cannot

be made liable for colluding with the assignor in defrauding the complainant of

the goodwill amount. Secondly; the complaint itself shows that the first entry was

put by the managers/their sale force in the sale account after the commencement of

the complainant's distributorship. Obviously, the concerned managers and their sale

force were actually in position at the commencement of the complainant's

distributorship and even subsequently, when they put their the first entries in the

sale account after the commencement of the complainant's distributorship. Merely

because, later on some of them discontinued the work, it does not mean that they

were not in position at the commencement of the complainant's distributorship.

Thirdly; as per complainant's own allegations, qua the number of the

managers/sales force, it was the outgoing distributor (Ms. Remy Kakkar) who had

defrauded her. The complaint does not show what role, if any, was played by the

petitioners in showing the allegedly wrong number of the managers/ work force. It

also does not disclose any facts and circumstances to show how the company

and/or the petitioners had colluded with the outgoing distributor to defraud her of

the goodwill amount. 44. Even tripartite agreement dated 18.08.2013(Annexure P/6) clearly

shows that it was executed only to facilitate the compliance of the assignment

agreement, already executed between the complainant and the outgoing distributor

Ms. Remy Kakkar. The role of the company was only to act as a facilitator. In this

situation, the allegation that the complainant was compelled to enter into tripartite

agreement with the outgoing distributor (Remy Kakkar) and the company on threat

of cancellation of contract, is patently absurd and unacceptable, to say the least. 45. The goodwill amount, in terms of the assignment deed, was payable

 28 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -29- by the complainant to the assignor, of course through the company. The relevant

allegations in the complaint are that the company had defrauded the complainant in

collusion with the assignor. Criminality cannot be attributed to the petitioners,

merely because on the basis of tripartite agreement, the Company performed its

obligation of receiving the good will amount from the complainant in trust and it

discharged that trust by paying the same further to the assignor. Ex facie, there is

absolutely no warrant for attributing criminality to the petitioners for the same. It is not even the case of complainant that any contractual amount thus

entrusted to the company and/or the petitioners was not actually passed on by

them to the assignor. In the absence of an allegation to that effect, which is the

essential element for offence under section 406 IPC, the registration of an FIR

against the petitioners for the said offence was/is wholly unwarranted. 46. It is no where alleged in the complaint dated 12.02.2015 (Annexure

P/12) that the complainant had ever sent a communication to the company in

writing informing it of any unethical or prohibited activity on the part of the

outgoing distributor. This being the situation, the complainant cannot invoke the

clause of obligation of the company or of the petitioners herein, for

discontinuing payment of further goodwill amount to the outgoing distributor or

make any grievance against them on this score. 47. Even if assumed for sake of arguments, that the complainant had sent

any written communication to the company and/or the petitioners complaining of any

breach of the terms and conditions of the assignment deed on the part of the

assignor sufficient to oblige the company/petitioners to discontinue /withhold any

further payment of good will amount to the assignor and they (the

company/petitioners) failed to perform that obligation, even then the same, at best,

would give rise only to civil consequences and not attract any criminal liability. 29 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -30- 48. Section 406 IPC deals with criminal breach of trust. A careful reading

thereof shows that a criminal breach of trust involves the following ingredients: 49. For attracting Section 406 IPC, the sine qua non is the initial entrustment

of the property with the free consent of the prosecutor. The essential ingredients to

constitute a criminal breach of trust are: A trust implies confidence placed by one man in another. It implies

necessarily that the confidence was freely given and there is a true consent. There is no

true consent, if confidence is obtained as a result of a trick. Hence, a person cannot be

said to be 'entrusted' with property when he obtains possession thereof by means of a

trick or cheating. The word 'entrusted' when used with respect to money means that the

money has been transferred to the accused in circumstances which show that that

notwithstanding the delivery to the accused, the property in it continues to vest in the

prosecutor and the money remains in the possession or control of the accused as a

 30 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -31- bailee, to be restored to the bailor or applied in accordance with his instructions. 50. Essential ingredients of the offence of cheating under Section 420 of

IPC are: and (iii) in cases covered by, (ii)(b) the act of omission should be one
 which causes or is likely to cause damage or harm to the person
 induced in body, mind, reputation or property. 51. Thus, for applicability of the offence u/s 420 IPC, ibid the inception

itself the possession of property is obtained by the accused by deception and trick on

the complainant/ prosecutor. For this, to be noted, there can be and is no question of

free consent from the prosecutor/ complainant/ aggrieved. 52. On the other hand, in criminal breach of trust, in the first instance, the

property is lawfully acquired or acquired with the consent of the owner. But

thereafter, it is dishonestly misappropriated by the person, to whom it is entrusted. In

case of criminal breach of trust as contemplated/ punishable u/s 406 IPC, at the time

of entrustment possession of the property, a free and informed consent flows from

the aggrieved/ prosecutor. There is no element of dishonesty at the time of taking its

possession. As against this, in case of the offence under section 420 IPC, the element

of dishonesty at the inception itself is the sine qua non whereby, the aggrieved/

prosecutor is induced to deliver possession of the property. Cheating, therefore,

 31 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -32- means that in the first instance itself, the accused by deceiving person fraudulently

or dishonestly, induces the person deceived to deliver any property or make him do

or make him omit anything/ something which he would not do or omit, if he were

not so deceived. 53. Hence, there is a fundamental inconsistency between the offences

under Sections 406 and 420 IPC . On the same set of facts, the offences under section 406 and 420 IPC cannot stand together, being the anti-thesis of each other. 54. As regards the offences under the Prize Chits and Money Circulation

Scheme (Banning) Act, 1978 , the only allegations in the complaint Annexure P/12

(as incorporated in the FIR Annexure P/24) are as under: 55. The 'money circulation scheme' and 'prize chit' are defined in the

1978 Act as under: namely:- Xxx ...." 56. Section 3 of the 1978 Act, inter alia, provides that that no person shall

promote or conduct any prize chit or money circulation scheme and Section 4 is the

 32 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -33- relevant penal provisions for violation of this prohibition. 57. The business module of the petitioners is well explained in the

brochures placed on record by the parties. The case of the petitioners is that by

enrolling members, which amount to fraction of its turnover(about 2%) and by

indulging in a direct sale model, it has not offended any provision of the 1978 Act. 58. What is a direct sale model? Multi-level marking, also known as

Network marketing/ direct selling/ social selling/ referral marketing, is stated to be

an alternate form of distributing products and services. Instead of using the

traditional distribution channel, the Multi-level Marketing companies sell their

products and services directly to consumers using word of mouth and/ or referrals

from existing consumers. For this reason, it is called direct selling. In this form of

marketing, customer/ consumer is given an opportunity to become a distributor and

earn retail commission for the sales generated by the referrals. The customers might

like the products/ services and decide to become distributors. When distributors

referred by a consumer refer other customers, they earn retail commission/ team

commission or group commission according to the total sales generated by the

network of distributors. Likewise, every multi-level marketing distributor can earn retail

commission for the sales generated by personal referrals and team commission for

the sales generated by multiple levels of distributors in their network. In the scenario,

it cannot be held that a distributor is paid only to recruit people, whereas he is paid

depending on the total sales volume generated by the entire team. It is a sort of sales

promotion reward by the companies to their consumers turned distributors for their

word of mouth advertisement effort, perhaps to save money on traditional

advertisement. 59. There is an inherent distinction between multi-level marketing

companies and pyramid schemes. If a business plan focuses on rewarding

 33 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -34- participants for recruitment only, rather than for selling products/ services to the end

customers, and makes money from things other than selling products, then it may be

illegal. On the other hand, legitimate direct selling companies do not require large

upfront investment or buying a large quantity of inventory and the services provided

by them are legitimate one. Companies like Amazon, Flipkart and eBay etc. are the

examples of direct selling modules. Since these were not traditional marketing

modules world-wise, there is/ was certain confusion in relation to channelizing of

multi level marketing/ network marketing etc. Multi level marketing being

unchartered territory in India, an advisory was issued by the Government of India to

the States and Union Territories by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and

Public Distribution vide notification dated 26.10.2016, which envisages the

principles to be considered for regulating the business of direct selling and multi-

level marketing(MLM) and strengthening the existing regulatory mechanism on

direct selling and multi-level marketing in order to prevent commission of any fraud

and protect the legitimate right and interests of consumers. In the said advisory,

network of direct selling and Pyramid schemes has been defined as below:- 6 to 10 XXXX

 "11."Pyramid Scheme" means: A multi layered network of
 subscribers to a scheme formed by subscribers enrolling
 one or more subscribers in order to receive any benefit,
 directly or indirectly, as a result of enrolment, action or
 performance of additional subscribers to the scheme. The
 subscribers enrolling further subscriber(s) occupy higher
 position and the enrolled subscriber(s) lower position,
 thus, with successive enrolments, they form multi-layered
 network of subscribers. Provided that the above definition of a "Pyramid Scheme" Explanation 1 - For the purposes of this proviso the term
 "material terms" shall means buy-back or repurchase
 policy, cooling-off period, warranty and refund policy."

 A perusal of the above reflects that the network of direct selling

and/ or multi-level marketing is not per se prohibited as long as the

parameters/ safeguards notified by the Government of India have been

adhered to. 35 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -36- What emerges out from the above discussion is that the basic principles

of multi level marketing should be 'sale' amenable to various provisions of VAT(as it

stood then) and GST(as it stands now), which, inter alia, implies that the heart and

soul of a multi level marketing or direct selling should be sale of goods. 60. Adverting to the facts of case, it has come on record that the

turnover of the Company from the selling of kits, for the last about ten years, is less

than 2%of its total turnover. The Company has a manufacturing unit and it is

amenable to GST(VAT earlier). It is neither a fly-by-night operator nor its whole

sole agenda is to give loans or circulate money. Company which sells its products by

multi level marketing or direct selling or even traditionally selling, always gives

incentives to its customers, representatives as well as the staff, sales managers and

higher officials. Promotion on the basis of sales made is a well known phenomenon

in any industry. The Company herein would sell a start up kit for Rs.800/-

containing various commodities and if otherwise purchased from the market, it

would be at a much higher price. On purchase of a start up kit, a person would

automatically be enrolled as a member. The sale of the start up kit is also against the

deduction of VAT/GST, as applicable, meaning thereby that the same is also a sale. 61. In the light of above-mentioned facts, for understanding the true

meaning and spirit of the 'money circulation scheme' and 'prize chit', as defined in

the 1978 Act, it would be useful to notice the relevant part of the Statement of

objects and reasons of the Act ibid . For ready reference, the same is reproduced

hereunder :- A perusal of the above shows that the basic object of the 1978 Act is/

was to cover prize chits, which would cover any kind of arrangement under which

moneys are collected by way of subscriptions, contributions etc. and prizes, gifts

etc. are awarded, which is really a form of lottery. By legislating the 1978 Act, the

Government, therefore, wanted to ban prize chits and money circulation schemes. 62. Section 2(a) of the 1978 Act, which defines "Conventional Chit",

which means a transaction whether called chit, chit fund, kuri or by any other

name by or under which a person responsible for the conduct of the chit enters

into an agreement with a specified number of persons that every one of them

shall subscribe a certain sum of money by way of periodical installments and

how the subscriber then be entitled to a prize amount. Section 2(c) of the 1978

Act thus defines money circulation scheme for the purpose of making quick or

easy money, or for the receipt of any money or valuable thing as the

consideration for a promise to pay money etc. 63. Section 3 of the 1978 Act mandates that no person shall promote or

conduct any prize chit or money circulation scheme or enroll as a member to any

such chit or scheme, or participate in it otherwise, or receive or remit any money in

pursuance of such chit or scheme. Section 6 of the 1978 Act relates to offence under this Act and, inter

alia, provides that if an act is committed by a Company, every person, who, at the time

the offence was committed, was in charge of and was responsible for the conduct of

the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of

the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. A bare reading of the aforesaid provisions of the 1978 Act would

clearly indicate that once the entire turnover of the

 37 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -38- company is dependent upon sales (out of which less than 2% is based upon sale of

start up kits), by no stretch of imagination, could the company be held allegedly

liable for violating the provisions of the 1978 Act. If sale incentives, selling of a

start up kit, sales promotion, would become an offence under the 1978 Act, then any

sale whether direct, indirect, by retail, discount scheme, enrolment for credit cards,

travel holidays etc. would become an offence within the law of the land. The

provisions of the 1978 Act were purely to curtail the illegal lotteries and investment

of persons in a money circulation scheme for a promotion to be made in future

without any product etc. actually being sold to them. At this stage, it is relevant and pertinent to mention here that the same/

similar module of marketing/ sales is followed by the petitioner Company in the

other countries globally viz. United States, Malaysia, Korea, Australia, New

Zealand, Brazil, Mexico, Columbia, Poland, Morocco, France, Bulgaria, Iberia,

Turkey, Germany, Austria, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Latvia, Netherlands, Belgium,

Italy, Russia, Egypt, Lebanon and Tunisia. 64. Admittedly, the complainant remained employed whole time as the

Sales Development Officer from 10.10.2011 to 28.02.2013 with M/s Tupperware.

While lodging the FIR the complainant concealed the factum of her previous

employment with the Company. By resigning from that post, she took and had been

running the distributor ship of the company from 05.03.2013. Throughout this

period from 10.10.2011, till the termination of her distributorship by the company

vide one month's termination notice dated 24.08.2015 Annexure P/22, effective

from 23.09.2015, she herself had also been promoting, participating in and

running the same business on the same pattern. Upto the lodging of the complaint

Annexure P/12 dated 12.02.2015 with the police, the complainant did not make

any grievance to the effect that the company/petitioners had been/were doing their

business in violation of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Scheme (Banning)

Act, 1978 or any other law. Obviously, she did not find any thing wrong or

 38 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -39- unlawful in the business pattern of the company till 12.02.2015. It is surprising that

she found nothing wrong or unlawful by herself promoting , carrying out and

participating in the same business on the same pattern from 10.10.2011 to

23.09.2015, but while filing the complaint dated 12.02.2015, she suddenly found

that business of the company was unlawful and prohibited by the Prize Chits and

Money Circulation Scheme (Banning) Act, 1978 . Own conduct of the complainant/

respondent No. 3 is incompatible and inconsistent with her allegations that the

business of the petitioners was/is in violation of and constituted offences Sections

3 / 4 of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978. 65. In my opinion, the allegations in the complaint and the FIR , as

reproduced in preceding paras above, are too cryptic, vague, non-specific and

without any particulars at all, to show even prima facie how the business of the

Company is against the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Scheme (Banning) Act,

1978 . 66. Apart of complaint/ FIR, the relevant part (preliminary objections para 2) of the reply respondent No. 3(complainant), in answer to the writ petition is as

under: 67. There is thus, not even an allegation of any element of speculation or

lottery. The reply of respondent No. 3, Annexure R-3/1 to Annexure R-3/4 read

with the reply of respondents No. 1-2 show that the Company offers various

incentives/gifts at different levels on achieving specified targets. No doubt, as per

averments in the respondents' pleadings filed in this Court, a person desirous of

selling the products of the company has to become a consultant on purchase of a

joining kit for Rs. 800/- and in the event of its de-activation/termination, the

person concerned has the option of its re-activation by purchase of a reactivation

kit for Rs. 160/-. 68. It is obvious that this is being done by the company for promoting

sale of its products and expansion of business and the Company offers various

incentives/gifts at different levels on achieving specified targets This pattern of

business, in my opinion, is to encourage performance, promote efficiency and

discourage complacency and expand the business, which is for the common

benefit of all participants in the business. It has no element of speculation like

lottery. This pattern of business, to my mind, does not come within the ambit of

"money circulation scheme" or "prize chit" as defined in section 2 of the Prize

Chits and Money Circulation Scheme (Banning) Act, 1978. 69. That in similar circumstances, in CRM-M No. 32862 of 2016, titled as Vasant Raj Pandit Vs. The State of UT Chandigarh , this Court has been pleased

to quash the FIR registered under 1978 Act read with Section 420 IPC. The

allegation against the petitioner therein was that he was the Sole Proprietor of M/s

Frontier Traders and Distributor of Japan Life and Marketing and a plan was

 40 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -41- launched by prescribing enrollment of three members against commission of 10% of

the sale value of the product directly sold by him, with the increase in the number of

enrollment o members, the percentage of commission goes higher and higher

attracting more customers and therefore, this is a scheme for making quick or easy

money under the plan of the Company. The argument raised in the above-mentioned

petition was for direct sale of goods and services rendered was by direct selling, the

Company does not fall within the definition of 1978 Act. This Court while referring

to the 1978 Act coupled with the letter dated 23.05.2002 issued by the Government

of India, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food, Public Distribution, Consumer Affairs

Department, concluded that the above-mentioned marketing module does not offend

the 1978 Act. It was also held that once a Company is respectfully doing its business

by paying Sales Tax, Income Tax, Invoice-cum-Delivery challan etc. and shows

transparency of the business and legitimate conduct of the petitioner, even no

offence can be attributed to it. The activities undertaken by the petitioner are

business and commercial activities and do not fall within a money circulation

scheme as defined in Section 2(c) of the Act. This Court further held that giving

monetary benefits by joining new Distributors for selling qualitative products in the

market and giving incentives on that basis, cannot be called a money circulation

scheme. The case of the petitioners herein is para materia and identical to the case of Vasant Raj (supra). 70. In an identical case titled/ reported as Naresh Balasubramaniam Vs.

State of Karnataka & Anr. 2017 SCC Online Kar 843, the FIR was quashed by

Karnataka High Court. I am in respectful agreement with the reasoning given by

learned Brother Anand Byrareddy, J. The case of the petitioner is squarely covered

with the aforesaid decision. Relevant of the judgment is as below:- 71. In the case of State of West Bengal Vs. Swapan Kumar Guha ,

reported as 1982(1) SCC 561, the Hon'ble Apex Court quashed the FIR, inter alia, on

the ground that the FIR did not allege directly or indirectly that the firm was

promoting or conducting a Scheme for making quick or easy money. It was further

held that an FIR which does not allege or disclose that the essential requirement of

penal provisions are prima facie satisfied cannot form the foundation or constitute

the starting point of a lawful investigation. 43 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -44- In the case in hand, in the last paragraph of the complaint, the

complainant has mentioned that the Company is violating the provisions of 1978

Act. Except for the above-mentioned isolated line/ assertion, no allegation is

mentioned as to how there is violation of provisions of 1978 Act and in the

considered opinion of the Court, the same cannot form the foundation or constitute

the starting point of a lawful investigation. The Apex Court while interpreting the provision of Section 2(c) of the

1978 Act has held that it is not a one ingredient in Section 2(c) of the Act, which

makes an offence, but one has to look perforce to the adjectival clause which

qualifies the word "for making of quick or easy money." Therefore, two conditions

must be satisfied before a person can be held guilty of an offence under Section 4 read with Section 3 & 2(c) of the Act. Firstly, it must be proved that he is promoting

or conducting a scheme for making of quick or easy money and secondly, the charge

of opportunity of making quick or easy money must be shown to depend upon an

event or contingency relative or applicable to the enrollment of members into that

scheme, which are totally lacking in the case in hand. 72. In Lalita Kumari Vs. Government of Uttar Pradesh , 2014(2) SCC 1

Hon'ble the Supreme Court has held that once a complaint is made to the concerned

police officer and a preliminary enquiry should be made time bound and in any case

it should not exceed 7 days. The fact of such delay and the causes of it must be

reflected in the general diary entry. The entire purpose of laying down the law by the Apex Court is that if

an Investigating Officer does not find any material to hold that a complaint discloses

a cognizable offence, he would hold a preliminary enquiry in commercial matters. In

the present case, it is apparent that the Investigating Officer did not find any

credence in the complaint at the first blush and therefore, wanted to hold a

preliminary enquiry. As noted above, there is variance in the complaint and the

 44 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -45- registration of the FIR as well as the affidavit filed by respondent No.2. The

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Tupperware Brands Corporation, USA

never stepped his foot in India and surprisingly he has been arraigned as a accused

despite the fact that Tupperware India Pvt. Ltd, a subsidiary company and

Tupperware Brands Corporation, USA are different entities. How his name figured

in the FIR is an unknown fact. Another accused named in the FIR, Ms. Asha Gupta

was Managing Director of Tupperware India Private Limited and it is nobody's

assertion that the complainant had any interaction with her in relation to her being

appointed as a Director. Still she has been roped in the case. It has also been brought

during the arguments that Mr. Chandan Dang, Ms. Vandita Bhatta, Mr. Jaideep, Mr.

Abhichandani and Mr. Michael Lazaro are no longer working with the Company.

They have had tough times in relation to explaining their position being arraigned as

accused in the present case, in the society or for the purpose of their employment etc.

The casual approach of the Investigating Officer in roping in the petitioners in the

FIR without even there being any averment against them or having found anything

in relation to their role, smacks of total illegality. The economic policy of India is to

invite big foreign companies to come and invest in India and FIR like this becomes a

great deterrent in the economic development of the country. It may be borne in mind

that Government of India has set up a special autonomous organization "Invest

India" to take initiatives of promoting foreign investment. Similarly, to promote

manufacturing and indigenous products it has set up "Make in India" and likewise

for entrepreneurs "Start up India. The State ought to use extra caution before

initiating criminal proceedings against global conglomerates/ foreign investors in

India to avoid a cascading and ripple effect on the general economy of country. For

any such action, conveys wrong message in Business/Industry circles and is fraught

with perils of jeopardizing government initiatives and dissuades foreign investors to

set up Business/Industry/Investment in India for fear of frivolous civil and/ or

 45 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -46- criminal litigation without accountability. 73. It is apt to mention here that after registration of the present FIR, the

bank accounts of the company were also seized and are till date frozen despite the

fact that the Company is not an accused in the present case. 74. Section 6 of the 1978 Act prescribes offences by the Companies and

the same reads as under:- 75. The provisions of Section 6 of the 1978 Act would have applied only

in case the Company was an accused, which is not the position in the case in hand. 46 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -47- The complaint is only in the name of Company, whereas in the FIR the petitioners

have been roped in. There is no applicability of Section 6 of 1978 Act and no

vicarious liability can be fastened upon the petitioners unless and until the Company

itself was an accused in the FIR. 76. There is another aspect of the matter. Clause 29.1 of the Distribution

Renewal Agreement clearly provides reference of dispute to arbitrator and the same

reads as under:- 77. It was a case where both the parties are alleging violation of terms and

conditions of agreement entered between them and are claiming dues from each

other, for which the arbitration clause has already been invoked by the petitioners

and admittedly the arbitrator is seized of the matter. The Company has already

terminated the distributorship of the complainant. The continuance of criminal

proceedings against the petitioners is sheer abuse of process of law. I am satisfied

that the dispute between the parties was/is of civil nature and it would be highly

unjust if the criminal proceedings are allowed to continue and the petitioners are

made to undergo the agony of trial which may take a number of years to end. 78. In the light of above discussion, I am of the opinion that the

registration of impugned FIR against the petitioners is wholly unwarranted and an

abuse of the process of law and that the continuance of its investigation would

 47 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 ::: -48- mean undue further harassment to the petitioners. Accordingly, both these

petitions are allowed and the FIR No. 245 dated 05.08.2015 registered under Sections 406 and 420 IPC read with Sections 3 and 4 of the Prize Chits and Money

Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978 at Police Station Sector 31, Chandigarh

and the consequential proceedings of investigation are quashed,

 (ARUN MONGA)
 JUDGE
June 27, 2019
shalini/Jiten 1. Whether speaking/ reasoned: Yes/ No 2. Whether reportable: Yes/ No

 48 of 48 ::: Downloaded on - 21-07-2019 02:27:10 :::