PER: VIKRAM SINGH YADAV, A.M. 2 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

 These are cross appeals filed by the assessee and the Revenue

against the order passed by the ld CIT(A), Alwar dated 04.12.2013 for

A.Y. 2008-09. The effective grounds of appeal are as under:- Ground of Revenue's appeal:- 2. In respect of Ground no. 1 of assessee's appeal, during the year
under consideration, the Assessing officer, on perusal of details of
administrative expenses debited in the P&L account by the assessee
company, noticed that a sum of Rs. 54,74,250/- has been claimed
under the head 'short and excess recovery account'. The assessee was
was asked to furnish complete details in this regard and to explain the
nature and allowability of this claim of Rs. 54,74,250. In response, the
assessee stated that the assessee company has claimed the deduction
of Rs. 54,74,250 in respect of the amount of recovery made by the Axis
Bank Limited and ICICI Bank. He filed a copy of legal notice dated
08.11.2007 of the Axis Bank, which reads as under: As a result of this, our Bank through its various officials, repeatedly
called upon you to regularize your account from time to time. However,
in spite of the repeated request, your company failed and neglected to
pay the amount overdue to the Bank, even though at every point you
gave assurance and promises to do so. In view of the defaults and
breach of contracts committed by your company, our Bank hereby
demands the outstanding dues of Rs. 1.16 Crores payable by our
company to the Bank. By this notice, we hereby do and call upon you to pay forthwith pay an
aggregate sum of Rs. 1.16 Crores with SEVEN DAYS from the date of
receipt of this notice, falling which we shall be constrained to initiate
necessary recovery/legal proceeding against your company, which will
be entirely at your risks, costs and consequences, which please note." The assessee was specifically required to furnish the complete details of
these transactions with Axis Bank and ICICI Bank and the working of 7 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

short recovery of Rs. 54,74,250 as claimed. The assessee was also
required to produce complete books of accounts for verification and
state the present position of the legal dispute. Further, the assessee
was required to explain as to whether any claim/suit was filed against
RTDC or any other party. The assessee was also requested to prove the
allowability of the claim. In this regard, the assessee has submitted a
written reply on 29.12.2010 stating as under: The AO considered the facts of the case mentioned in the legal notice of
Axis Bank and also perused the reply of the assessee dated 23.11.2007
to the legal notice dated 08.11.2007 and stated that the said legal
notice and reply shows that the assessee has not accepted the claims of
Axis Bank in this regard. As per the assessee it has lodged the claim
and entangled on legal front with the bankers for recovery of the
amount. However no documentary evidence in this regard has been
filed. The assessee has also not filed the complete details in this regard
& has not disclosed full facts. After the query on the above points the
assessee has also not produced the account books. Therefore, the facts
are not fully crystallized and are not verifiable. The assessee was
required to furnish present status of the assessee's case. The necessary
details were not produced. Looking to the facts of the case it cannot be
said that the amount of Rs. 66,91,000 (Rs. 54,74,250+12,17,000=Rs.
66,91,250) claimed to have been recovered by the bank was
crystallized. It is pertinent to mention here that the assessee has
debited net amount of Rs. 54,74,250 in the P&L account and
commission receipts of Rs. 12,17,000 in the trading account. It is
evident that the assessee has prematurely claimed these expenses.
Since the assessee failed to substantiate its claim, the expenses to the
tune of Rs. 66,91,250 were disallowed and added to income of the
assessee company. 2.1 On appeal, the Ld. CIT(A) confirmed the disallowance of Rs.
66,91,250 made by the AO and his relevant findings are as under:- M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar (b) The said activity becomes illegal, ultra-vires and as outside
the purview of the scope of the contract entered into in this
behalf. 5.9. In view of the above discussion, I uphold the action of the
AO in making the disallowance under this head on account of the
following reasons: Further, I do not agree with the remand report of the AO
wherein it is stated that as regards claimed made by the company
for bad debts of commission income to the tune of Rs.
12,17,000/- may be allowed. On the other hand in the same
remand report the AO has proposed for disallowance of Rs.
66,91,250. In response to the query in the course of appellate
proceedings regarding the present status of the claim, it was
informed that it is still pending before the Courts at the admission
stage and has not been admitted till today. M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

 5.10. Considering the material available on record and reasons
 given above, I confirm the disallowance of Rs. 66,91,250 made
 by the AO under this head." 2.2 During the course of hearing, the ld AR submitted that the issue
which arise for consideration is whether the loss incurred by the
assessee is on account of contravention of contractual obligation and
thus a penal liability not allowable under the Act and whether the
amount of Rs.66,91,250/- recovered by Axis Bank from the assessee is
a crystallised liability or a contingent liability. 2.3 It was submitted that the assessee in course of its business has
entered into Internet Gateway Merchant Agreement dt. 11.12.2006 with
Axis Bank whereby the assessee was allowed to conduct buying and
selling activities from its website and recover credit/debit cards
payments for the same over the internet. Therefore, as per this
agreement there was no restriction that assessee would only receive
the payment of the customer is respect of transaction with RTDC.
Therefore, finding of the Ld. CIT(A) that the assessee also carried out
transaction of internet telephonic cards through this payment gateway
and thus that the activity become illegal, ultra virus and outside the
scope of the contract and is a penal liability is incorrect and on this
account, the claim of deduction of the amount recovered by the bank
cannot be disallowed. It was further submitted that the another contention of the lower
authorities that the claim of deduction made by the assessee on 11 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

account of recovery of Rs.66,91,250/- by the bank is premature and
contingent is also incorrect. This is because as per the legal notice dt.
08.11.2007 send by the bank, it demanded Rs.1.83 crores from the
assessee and since Rs.66.91 lacs was already recovered, the legal
notice was issued for Rs.1.16 crores. In course of appellate hearing,
assessee filed order of Mumbai Debt Recovery Tribunal dt. 25.08.2009
whereby the assessee was held to be liable to make payment of Rs.1.22
crores to the bank. Thereafter, on Miscellaneous Application filed by the
assessee, the order dt.25.08.2009 was recalled and vide order dt.
24.03.2010, assessee was required to deposit a sum of Rs.20 lacs on or
before 31.03.2010. All these facts shows that as on 31.03.2008 the
liability of the assessee was certain. As Rs.66.91 lacs is already
recovered by the bank and the liability is certain ,though it disputed the
further claim of Rs.1.16 crores made by the bank in the legal notice, the
assessee as a matter of prudence rightly claimed the amount of
Rs.66.91 lacs in the P&L A/c which is allowable as a business loss. The
Supreme Court in case of Dr. T.A. Qureshi Vs. CIT 287 ITR 547 has
held that business loss are allowable on ordinary commercial principles
in computing profit and therefore the heroine seized and confisticated
as a part of stock in trade of assessee has to be allowed as a business
loss. Therefore, the findings of the CIT(A) that the claim is not
crystallised and is a contingent liability is by drawing incorrect inference
from the facts on record. It was further submitted that otherwise also, assessee on such
transaction has earned commission of Rs.12.17 lacs which is offered for
tax. Therefore, if in course of such business, the bank has recovered 12 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

Rs.66.91 lacs from the assessee, it is allowable as bad debt u/s
36(1)(vii) , once the amount is written off in the books of accounts. For
this reliance is placed on the decision of Bombay High Court in case of CIT Vs. Shreyas S. Morakhia 342 ITR 285 where assessee, a share
broker, engaged in the transactions of sale & purchase of shares for his
clients claimed deduction by way of bad debts u/s 36(1)(vii) r.w.s.
36(2) of IT Act in respect of amount which could not be recovered from
its clients. The same was disallowed by the AO. It was held that
deduction on account of bad debt can be allowed only where such debt
or part thereof has been taken into account in computing the income of
the assessee. In present case, the debt comprises, inter alia, of the
value of the shares transacted & the brokerage payable by the client on
whose behalf the transaction takes place. Since, the brokerage from the
transaction of purchase of shares has been taxed in the hands of the
assessee as business income, it is evident that within the meaning of sec. 36(2)(i) , debt or part thereof has been taken into account in
computing the income of the assessee & therefore assessee is entitled
to deduction u/s 36(1)(vii) . 2.4 The ld DR is heard who has relied on the order of the lower
authorities. 2.5 We have heard the rival contentions and pursued the material
available on record. There is a dispute which has arisen between the
assessee company and Axis Bank in terms of compliance to the terms
and conditions of Internet Gateway Merchant Agreement dated
11.12.2006. Axis Bank has issued a legal notice dated 8.11.2007 for
recovery of Rs 1.16 crores and thereafter a petition has been filed 13 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

before the Debt Recovery Tribunal for Rs 1.22 crores with interest,
which is pending adjudication. In the said legal notice, Axis Bank has
also stated that total chargeback received as at 3 October 1.83 crores
(gross liability) and after adjusting Rs 66.91 lacs so far recovered by the
bank from the assessee company, net liability of Rs 1.16 Crores was
demanded. The assessee company has disputed the said net liability of
Rs 1.16 Crores before the DRT. It has also filed a civil suit being No. 38
of 2008 (earlier no. 1049 of 2007) against the Axis Bank before the Civil
Judge (Junior Division) of Jaipur City (East) for recovery of Rs 67.12
lacs which has already been recovered from assessee company by the
bank. Though there is minor difference between the two amounts of
Rs 67.12 lacs and Rs 66.91 lacs, it seems likely that it relates to the
same amount of Rs 66.91 lacs which has been recovered by the bank
from the assessee company as mentioned in the legal notice. Overall,
the facts that have emerged are that the subject dispute has been
pending adjudication before the Debt Recovery Tribunal as well as
before the Civil Courts and the whole of the liability of the assessee
company either towards Rs 66.91 lacs which has already been
recovered or the balance sum of Rs 1.22 Crores has not accepted by
the assessee company and has not attained finality. 2.6 In the above factual matrix, the issue before us relates to claim of
Rs 66.91 lacs made by the assessee company as an allowable
expenditure for tax purposes. The ld AR has contended that as on
31.03.2008 the liability of the assessee was certain. As Rs.66.91 lacs is
already recovered by the bank and the liability is certain, though it
disputed the further claim of Rs.1.16 crores made by the bank in the 14 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

legal notice, the assessee as a matter of prudence rightly claimed the
amount of Rs.66.91 lacs in the P&L A/c which is allowable as a business
loss. 2.7 The law in this regard is well settled that for claiming an
expenditure arising out of an contractual obligation, the liability to pay
such sum should crystallised, in terms of the said contractual obligation,
during the relevant period. In other words, there should be a liability
existing during the relevant period and where the liability itself is in
doubt or has not been accepted and challenged as in the instant case,
and the outcome of which is uncertain, such liabilities cannot be subject
matter of deduction. Merely putting aside the money or providing for
the same in the financial statement or as in the instant case, mere
recovery of the said money is not sufficient enough to claim the
deduction. The fact remains that the assessee company has not
accepted its liability at first place and the liability is not certain. The
said non-acceptance of the liability is not just in respect of sum of Rs
1.22 Crores which is pending adjudication before the Debt Recovery
Tribunal but also in respect of recovery of Rs 66.91 lacs which has been
challenged by the assessee company in the Civil Court. Therefore, we
are unable to agree to the contentions raised by the ld AR. At the same
time, the assessee company would be at liberty to claim the said
amount in the subsequent period once it has accepted its liability and
the liability thus becomes certain though it has been recovered in the
instant year. M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

2.8 We now refer to the another contention of the ld AR that the
assessee on such transactions has earned commission of Rs.12.17 lacs
which is offered for tax. Therefore, if in course of such business
transactions, the bank has recovered Rs.66.91 lacs from the assessee, it
is allowable as bad debt u/s 36(1)(vii) , once the amount is written off in
the books of accounts. For this reliance is placed on the decision of
Bombay High Court in case of CIT Vs. Shreyas S. Morakhia (supra). 2.9 Before the ld CIT(A), it was submitted by the assessee company
that Rs 66.91 lacs represents the realisation of the proceeds from its
activity whereupon the assessee company has earned the commission
of Rs 12.17 lacs, thus the said recovered amount is in the nature of
sales proceeds and written off amount is in the nature of bad debt. The
AO in his remand report has agreed with the assessee's contention to
the extent of Rs 12.17 lacs and stated that this amount of Rs 12.17 lacs
is on account of services rendered by the assessee company to the Axis
Bank and has subsequently been written off in the books of accounts
treating the same as bad debt and thus allowable u/s 36(1)(vii) of the
Act. 2.10 To appreciate the contentions raised by the ld AR, it would be
relevant to refer to the provisions of section 36(1)(vii) and section 36(2) of the Act which reads as under: M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar (iii) any such debt or part of debt may be deducted if it has already been
written off as irrecoverable in the accounts of an earlier previous year (being
a previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing on the 1st day
of April, 1988, or any earlier assessment year), but the Assessing Officer had
not allowed it to be deducted on the ground that it had not been established
to have become a bad debt in that year; (iv) where any such debt or part of debt is written off as irrecoverable in the
accounts of the previous year (being a previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1988, or any earlier
assessment year) and the Assessing Officer is satisfied that such debt or part
became a bad debt in any earlier previous year not falling beyond a period of
four previous years immediately preceding the previous year in which such
debt or part is written off, the provisions of sub-section (6) of section 155 shall apply; (v) where such debt or part of debt relates to advances made by an assessee
to which clause (viia) of sub-section (1) applies, no such deduction shall be
allowed unless the assessee has debited the amount of such debt or part of
debt in that previous year to the provision for bad and doubtful debts account
made under that clause." 2.11 On perusal of above provisions, what is required to be examined
is firstly, there should be a debt due which has become bad. Secondly,
the amount of such bad debt or part thereof is written off as
irrecoverable in the accounts of the assessee for the previous year.
Thirdly, such debt or part thereof has been taken into account in
computing the income of the assessee of the previous year in which the
amount of such debt or part thereof is written off or of an earlier
previous year. 2.12 In the context of the aforesaid third condition, the decision of the
Hon'ble Bombay High Court in case of CIT Vs. Shreyas S. Morakhia (supra) 342 ITR 285 has been brought to the notice of the Bench. In
that case, the facts of the case were that the assessee was a share 18 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

broker. The assessee claimed a deduction of Rs. 28.24 lacs representing
an amount due to him by his clients on account of transactions of
shares effected by the assessee on their behalf. The assessee claimed
that the amount had become irrecoverable. The amount was claimed as
a deduction after having been written off as irrecoverable from the
books of account. The Assessing Officer disallowed the deduction
holding that the business in respect of which the debts had arisen had
ceased to exist in the year under consideration and also on the ground
that no action was taken against the clients to recover the amounts due
from them. In appeal, the Commissioner (Appeals) held that though the
assessee had sold the membership card of the Mumbai Stock Exchange,
he continued to carry on broking business as a sub broker and hence
the business of the assessee had not ceased to exist but continued
during the year under consideration. The Commissioner held that the
failure of the assessee to initiate recovery proceedings could not be a
ground for denying a claim for bad debts under Section 36(1)(vii) . The
claim of the assessee was accordingly allowed. An appeal was filed by
the Revenue before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal; the contention
of the Revenue being that since the assessee had credited only the
amount of the brokerage to the profit and loss account, the amount of
bad debts claimed was not taken into account in computing the total
income of the relevant previous year or of any earlier previous year.
Hence according to the Revenue the condition stipulated in Section
36(2) was not satisfied and the assessee was not entitled to claim a
deduction in respect of the bad debts under Section 36(1)(vii) . M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

In the above factual matrix, the question of law referred for
consideration before the Hon'ble High Court was as under: The Hon'ble High Court thereafter laid down the following legal
proposition: 2.13 In light of above legal framework, let's examine the facts of the
instant case. In the present case, there is finding of fact by the AO in
his remand report that the amount of Rs 12.17 lacs is on account of
services rendered by the assessee company to the Axis Bank and has
subsequently been written off in the books of accounts treating the
same as bad debt. The said amount of Rs 12.17 lacs is thus clearly a
debt due from its customers and the fact that the same has been
written off in the books of accounts is allowable u/s 36(1)(vii) of the Act
and to this extent, we agree with the ld AR and the claim of the
assessee company is hereby allowed. 2.14 As far as the remaining amount of Rs 54.74 lacs is concerned, as
we have noted above, it was submitted by the assessee company
before the ld CIT(A) that Rs 66.91 lacs (which includes Rs 54.74 lacs)
represents the realisation of the proceeds from its activity whereupon
the assessee company has earned the commission of Rs 12.17 lacs,
thus the said recovered amount is in the nature of sales proceeds and
written off amount is in the nature of bad debt. There is a difference
between the amount in the nature of sale proceeds and the amount
actually pertaining to sale proceeds. What is relevant to determine is
that the amount should either relates to services rendered by the
assessee company in form of commission or it should relates to amount
which could not be recovered from its clients (being disputed by the
latter) in respect of transactions effected by the assessee company on 22 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

behalf of its clients and in relation to such transactions, the commission
income has accrued to the assessee company. There has to be a
linkage between the commission income taken to the profit/loss account
and the amount of debt which is written off as irrecoverable and in that
scenario, the test of whether the debt or part thereof has been taken
into account in computing the income of the assessee can be said to
have been satisfied. Therefore, it is not sufficient that in course of such
business, where the bank has recovered certain amount from the
assessee, it is allowable as bad debt u/s 36(1)(vii) . The exact nature of
recovery done by the banks is therefore to be examined. The recovery
should relate to transaction undertaken by the assessee company on
behalf of its clients and which is now been disputed and a charge back
is claimed by the respective clients through the Bank. Further, in either
case, the amount has to be written off as irrecoverable in the books of
accounts of the assessee's company. The treatment and entries passed
in the books of accounts thus become equally relevant and it would be
relevant to examine whether the assessee has debited the amount of
doubtful debt to the profit/loss account and credits the sundry debtors
account. There is no finding recorded by the AO or the ld CIT(A) in this
regard. We accordingly set aside the matter to the file of the AO for the
limited purposes of verifying the exact nature of Rs 54.74 lacs and the
accounting treatment thereof in the books of accounts of the assessee
company in light of above discussions. In the result, the ground no. 1
of the assessee company is allowed for statistical purposes. 3. Now, coming to ground no. 2 of the assessee's appeal as well as
of the revenue's appeal. Briefly the facts of the case are that the 23 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

assessee company incurred an expenditure of Rs.15,99,923/- under the
head "plant running & maintenance" expenses. The AO held that in AY
06-07, against expenditure of Rs.9,09,262/-, a disallowance of
Rs.50,000/- was confirmed in the first appeal. Accordingly, he made
disallowance of Rs.75,000/-. On appeal, the Ld. CIT(A) considering that
in AY 2006-07, disallowance of Rs.50,000/- was confirmed out of
disallowance of Rs.1,50,000/- (correct amount Rs.2 lacs) made by the
AO, restricted the disallowance of Rs.75,000/- to Rs.25,000/-. Now,
both the parties are in appeal before us against the order of the ld
CIT(A). 3.1 During the course of hearing, the ld AR submitted that from the
ledger account placed at PB 115-134, it can be noted that each and
every expenditure claimed under this head is supported by proper
details, bills and vouchers. No specific defect is pointed out in the
expenses incurred by the assessee either by AO or by the CIT(A). The
adhoc disallowance, without basis, is unjustified as held in the following
cases:- There is no basis for adhoc disallowances in the eye of law. In the
result, the disallowance made by the AO is deleted. The assessee's
ground no. 2 is allowed and the Revenue's ground no. 2 is dismissed. 4. Now coming to ground no. 3 of assessee's appeal. Briefly, the
facts of the case are that during the year under consideration, the AO
observed that from 01.04.2007 to 31.08.2007, assessee made purchase
of 85,82,190 kg of soyabean which is sold as such and therefore there
is no shortage upto 31.08.2007. However, in the month of September
2007, the assessee made purchase of 80,76,361 kg of soyabean and
sold 80,30,235 kg and claimed 46,126 kg as shortage. He further
observed that shortage is claimed in respect of purchases made on
01.09.07 of 3,19,431 kg of which 1,79,430 kg was sold on the same
date and 93,875 kg was sold on 05.09.07. No evidence is furnished for
such shortage on purchase of a single day within a short span of 4-5
days. Accordingly, he treated the shortage as unaccounted sale and
made addition of Rs.6,96,964/-. 4.2. On appeal, the ld CIT(A) held that decision of purchase and sale of
soyabean is taken by aditya's. The aditya's raise the sale invoice on the
assessee on the date, when it decides to sale the same to some other
person. Thereafter, sale invoice would be issued by the assessee in
favour of the buyer and delivery of the same would be made by the
aditya's directly but it is strange that purchase invoice in the favour of
assessee would be of the same date or a day before the sale by the
assessee. It means that assessee has not made the purchases before 25 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

the date of sale. It is only the aditya who remains the owner of the item
till the date of sale by him to the assessee. Therefore, there cannot be
any question of shortage in the hands of the assessee. Accordingly, the
addition on account of shortage is confirmed. The relevant findings of
the ld. CIT(A) are as under:- 9.8. A careful reading of the above, indicate that the decision
for purchase and sale of Soyabean is taken by the Adatiyas
depending upon the market conditions. This proposition is
acceptable as a normal business practice. Adatiyas raised the
sale invoices upon the assessee company on the date, when it
decides to sale the same item to some other person. The sale
invoice would be than issued by the appellant company in favour
of the buyer of item and the delivery of the same would be made
by the Adatiyas directly. However, what is strange in the above
submission is that the purchase invoice of the item in favour of
the appellant company would be of the same date or a day
before to the sale of the same item by the appellant company. It
means the appellant company have not purchased the item
before the date of sale. It is only the Adatiya who remains the
owner of the Soyabean item, till the date of sale by him in the
name of appellant company. Thus, the question of shortage in
the hands of the appellant company does not arise. Therefore,
this claim of shortage of stock though appearing to be negligible
in percentage terms as compared to the total volume of stock, is
not allowable as loss. This fact is further substantiated by the
copy of stock register which was examined by the AO and 27 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

 enclosed as an Annexure to the order of the A.O. I agree with the
 reasoning given by the AO that this amount has been debited in
 the month of September with a view to suppress the profit
 earned by the appellant. 9.9. In view of the above discussion, I confirm the disallowance
 of Rs. 6,96,964 made on account of shortage of Soyabean stock." 4.3 During the course of hearing, the ld AR submitted that both the
lower authorities have not properly appreciated the nature of the
transaction. In the normal course of business, assessee give margin
money to the aditya's and direct him to purchase the goods on his
behalf. The goods are purchased by the aditya's and are kept in his
godown. Thereafter, when the assessee sales the goods considering the
market condition, it directs the aditya to deliver the goods to the
customers. At this point of time, the aditya raises the purchases bills in
the name of the assessee at the rate at which the goods was purchased
by him and raises separate debit note by way of rate difference to cover
his commission, interest cost, godown rent, labour charges and other
expenses. The shortage is determined at the time when the entire
goods so purchased are sold. It was further submitted that the assessee has purchased soyabean
through the aditya's, M/s Mukesh Kumar Jain & Bros., M/s Mahaveer
Trading Co., Surendra Trading Co. and M/s Julaniya Bros. during FY
2006-07 and 2007-08. During the year, assessee purchased
1,66,585.51 qtl. soyabean (PB 165-167) and sold 1,66,124.25 qtl.
soyabean (PB 168-182). The entire purchases were sold. On such sale it
was found that there is shortage of 461.26 qtl. This represents 0.27% 28 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

of total quantity purchased. This shortage is not of one day but of the
purchases made during the year but determined only when the entire
goods were sold. Therefore, in the stock sheet which is compiled and
submitted in course of assessment proceedings and made as Annexure
A of the assessment order (DPB 70-75), no shortage is shown from
April to August, 2007 but the shortage is shown between 01.09.2007 to
28.09.2007 at a fixed percentage of the receipt quantity so that the
entire shortage of 461.26 qtl. is reflected in the month of September,
2007 by which the entire goods were sold. Thus, it is only the manner
in which the shortage is shown in the stock register compiled and
submitted before the AO and not that the shortage is only in respect of
the receipt shown on that date. It was further submitted that the Ld. CIT(A) has wrongly observed that
the decision for purchase and sale of soyabean is taken by the aditya's.
All these decisions are taken by the assessee and the aditya's only
execute the same. The shortage in such huge quantity is inevitable. The
Ld. CIT(A) has accepted that shortage in percentage terms in only
negligible but still he confirmed the addition which is without
appreciating the facts properly. Further there is neither any allegation
nor any evidence that the shortage has been sold out of books of
accounts. 4.4 The ld DR is heard who has relied on the order of the lower
authorities. 4.5 We have heard the rival contentions and pursued the material
available on record. The assessee has claimed shortage of 461.26 qtl. of 29 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

soyabean stock valued at Rs 6,96,964. It is the assessee's case that
the aditya's are purchasing and selling soyabean on behalf of the
assessee. The soyabean stock was kept with aditya's and the delivery
of the same to the assessee's customers were made directly from
aditya's premises/godown. In lieu of purchasing the goods, the aditya's
are charging the commission and other expenses like labour charges,
godown rent, interest, etc. The adityas are investing their own money in
the purchases with receipt of margin money of approx 20% to 25%
from the assessee. Whenever, the assessee finds the market conditions
favourable to them, on its direction the aditya's raises the invoice on the
assessee and assessee in turn raise the invoice on the customers to
whom goods are sold and ask aditya's to deliver the goods directly to
the customers. At the time of delivery of goods by the adityas, the
aditya's raises the invoice on the assessee at the rate at which goods
were purchased and the assessee raises its sales invoices in favour of
its customers. This is evident from the fact that on the same day of
raising of the invoices of purchases and sales, there is price difference
of Rs.150 to 200 per qtl. which is possible only under circumstances
when there is sufficient time lag between purchase and sale. We find
force in the argument of the ld AR. 4.6 Per contra, the crux of the arguments of the Revenue is that the
purchase invoice of the goods in favour of the appellant company is of
the same date or a day before to the sale of the same item by the
appellant company. It means the appellant company have not
purchased the item before the date of sale. It is only the Aditya who
remains the owner of the Soyabean item, till the date of sale by him in 30 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

the name of appellant company. Thus, the question of shortage in the
hands of the appellant company does not arise. Therefore, this claim of
shortage of stock though appearing to be negligible in percentage terms
as compared to the total volume of stock, is not allowable as loss. 4.7 In our view, merely the timing of the raising of the invoice is not
sufficient to determine the ownership over the goods and what is
relevant to determine is the exact nature of relationship between the
assessee and its Adityas and whether the latter are acting on behalf of
the former or on their own. Further, the goods are not transported to
assessee's company's premises (which would require the ownership
documents for carriage purposes) and are delivered directly to the
customer's from adityas. As noted above, the assessee has submitted
that the Adityas are acting on its behalf as demonstrated through
placing of margin money with them, giving them instructions to buy and
deliver the goods directly to the customers and the fact that they
charge commission and other expenses from the assessee company.
These facts remain uncontroverted before us. In any case, the
assessee company has disclosed profits on the sale of the soyabean in
its books of accounts. The shortage of such stock would thus pertain to
the assessee company and has been rightly claimed in its hands. In the
result, the addition of Rs 6,96,964 on account of shortage of soyabean
stock is deleted. The ground no. 3 of the assessee's appeal is thus
allowed. 5. Now, coming to ground no. 4 and 5 of the assessee's appeal. The
facts of the case are that the AO observed from the details of purchases 31 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

from Mahaveer Trading Co., Kota and Mukesh Kumar Jain & Bros., Kota
that purchase of soyabean is made from these two concerns between
17.05.2007 to 01.09.2007 at a rate ranging from 1391.09 per qtl. to
1391.92 per qtl. but thereafter both the parties vide debit note dt.
31.12.2007 has increased the purchase rate to 1471.75 per qtl. and
accordingly raised debit note of Rs.17,00,119/- and Rs.28,13,042/-
respectively aggregating to Rs.45,13,161/-. No documentary evidence
or acceptable reasons for increasing the cost of purchase after 4-5
months of purchase is furnished. Similar debit note of Rs.9,49,097/- is
obtained from M/s Julaniya Bros. on account of labour charges. The
assessee was required to produce the above parties for examination.
Summons was also issued but neither the assessee produced them nor
they attended for examination. Accordingly, the AO held that these
debit notes are obtained to reduce the income with an intention to
avoid proper incidence of tax and made addition of Rs.45,13,161/- and
Rs.9,49,097/- on account of inflation of purchases. 5.1 In appellate proceedings, the Ld. CIT(A) called for a remand report.
Thereafter, the AO considering the affidavit of Sh. Chandra Prakash
Jain, Manager of M/s Sh. Mahaveer Trading Co. and M/s Mukesh Kumar
Jain & Bros. send his remand report dt. 07.05.2012 to the CIT(A) where
he observed that the affidavit and the copy of stock register do not
support the assessee's contention in the absence of books of accounts
of the parties. The Ld. CIT(A) after considering the remand report and
the explanation of the assessee observed that no evidence was
produced by the assessee as to how and on what basis the rate
difference/debit notes has been arrived at/ issued by the seller. M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

Accordingly, he confirmed the addition made by the AO. The relevant
findings of the ld. CIT(A) is as under:- 5.3 During the course of hearing, the ld AR submitted that the
allegation of the lower authorities that assessee has accounted for the 34 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

debit notes for rate difference/ labour charges to inflate the purchases
and thereby to reduce the profit and that no evidence for the same is
furnished is factually incorrect. This is because in course of remand
proceedings, the assessee produced Sh. Chandra Prakash Jain, Manager
of M/s Sh. Mahaveer Trading Co. and M/s Mukesh Kumar Jain & Bros.
Kota along with stock register. The AO, however, did not record his
statement. Accordingly, his affidavit was filed. In the affidavit, Sh.
Chandra Prakash Jain at Para 8, 9 & 10 categorically stated as under:- It was further submitted that it is a settled law that the burden to prove
that what is apparent is not real is on the person who alleges so. In the
present case it is the allegation of the department that assessee has
inflated the purchases by obtaining debit notes. In such situation, the
AO should bring material on record that on the date on which the
purchases is recorded by assessee in the books of accounts/ the date
on which aditya's raised the bills on the assessee, the purchase price
was lower than what is recorded in the books considering the debit
note. No evidence in brought on record that even after such debit note
the market is lower. Hence, the allegation of AO is without any basis.
For this reliance is placed on the following cases:- Chandra Prakash Jain, the manager of the two parties who supplied the 38 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

soyabean, it was submitted that "at the time of sale, the bills were
raised at the purchase price without including therein the godown rent,
interest and other expenses inadvertently, which should have been
included therein. That subsequently, on realising the above said
mistake, debit notes were raised by both the above said parties upon
Data Infosys Ltd. for a sum of Rs.17,00,119/- by M/s Mahaveer Trading
Co. on 31.12.2007 and for Rs.28,13,042/- by M/s Mukesh Kumar Jain &
Bros. on 31.12.2007." It was further submitted that the above said
parties have deposited the VAT on the difference amount of the debit
note and have included the above said amount in their income in books
of accounts. It was further submitted that assessee has made the
purchases from Mahaveer Trading Company, Kota and Mukesh Kumar
Jain, Kota at the rate ranging from Rs.1,391.09 per qtl. to Rs.1,391.92
per qtl. and even after the debit note raised by the parties, the
purchase rate works out to around Rs.1,472 per qtl. As against this, the
rate prevailing in the month of May to August 2007 was Rs.1,545 per
qtl. to Rs.1,549 per qtl. as evident from the market data. Based on the
same, it was submitted that the allegation of the AO that assessee has
obtained the debit note to inflate the purchases is without any basis. 5.6 The ld CIT(A) has however found the factual matrix relating to
raising of the debit notes strange and noted that a party who has been
purchasing Soyabean stock through the Adatiyas and booking the same
in the books of accounts when the item is proposed to be sold by the
Adatiya could agree for the payment of rate difference and that too of
about Rs.80 per quintal at such a later date. The sale and purchase
invoice are either on the same date or on consecutive dates. Thus, it 39 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

leaves no scope for settlement of purchase price at a later date when
the item has already been sold in the books of accounts. 5.7 As noted above, the assessee has submitted that the debit notes
relates to the godown rent, interest and other expenses which are
claimed as not raised earlier inadvertently by these two concerns and
now being raised and accounted for in its books of accounts. It is
further noted that the assessee has existing arrangement with two
concerns for purchasing and sale of soyabean on its behalf and in such
background, similar expenses have been claimed and paid by the
assessee company in the past. Therefore, what is relevant to
determine is whether there is any inconsistency in these expenses vis-a-
vis expenses incurred in the past. There is no finding of the AO
highlighting any such inconsistency in claim of such expenses. 5.8 Further, since the assessee is involved in trading of soyabean, it
is expected that it will earn a decent margin on its sales. The assessee
has tried to demonstrate before us that the purchase price after
including the debit notes is less than the market price. It is further
claimed that the sale price after considering these debit notes is also
higher and there is enough margin that has been claimed and reported
by the assessee. In this regard, in our view, earning decent margins is
a subjective term and what would be relevant is to see how such
margins are bench marked against the rates prevailing in the open
market and then only such a contention can be accepted. What is
therefore relevant to determine is the cost of purchase of soyabean
after including these debit notes during the specified period, and the 40 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

sale price of soyabean so purchased and sold ultimately and whether
both the purchase and sale correspond to the rates prevailing in the
open market during the relevant period. Further, since both the
purchases and sales are accounted for almost on the same day as
claimed by the assessee, we donot think it will raise substantial
challenge to the assessee to correlate both the purchase and the sales
and whether the same correspond to market rates during the specified
period. Whether through such an exercise, it can be determined that
the margins are reasonable vis-a-vis margins earned on the sales in the
open market factoring in the seasonal market conditions, it would
further prove the bonafide of these debit notes in the hands of the
assessee company. 5.9 In the result, we deem it fit to set aside the matter to the file of
the AO to carry out the necessary verification in light of above
directions. In the result, both the grounds of the assessee are allowed
for statistical purposes. 6. Now, coming to ground no. 1 of the revenue's appeal, briefly the
facts of the case are that the AO observed that assessee has claimed
deferred revenue expenditure of Rs.7,69,315/- which is stated to be
covered by the decision of ld CIT(A) in AY 2006-07. The AO however,
disallowed the same holding that deferred revenue expenditure is
allowable u/s 35D and the assessee claims do not fall in that section.
Further, the decision of CIT(A) is challenged before Hon'ble ITAT. M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

6.1 The Ld. CIT(A) deleted the disallowance holding that issue stands
covered by the order of his predecessor for AY 2006-07 and his findings
are as under: 6.2. During the course of hearing, the ld AR submitted that in AY
2001-02, assessee incurred expenditure on advertisement, consultancy
charges and foreign travelling expenses of Rs.45,89,096/- which instead
of claiming in that year was deferred and only 1/10th of such expenses
i.e. Rs.4,58,910/- was claimed in the P&L A/c. Again in AY 2002-03,
assessee incurred expenditure on advertisement and consultancy of
Rs.31,04,045/- which instead of claiming the expenditure in that year
was deferred and only 1/10th of such expenses i.e. Rs.3,10,405/- was
claimed in the P&L A/c. Accordingly, in all subsequent years,
Rs.7,69,315/- (4,58,910+3,10,405) is claimed in the P&L A/c on
deferred basis. These expenses are not of the nature falling under section 35D but assessee on the basis of its accounting policy deferred
these expenditures and claimed 1/10th of these expenses each year.
Therefore, the expenses of Rs.7,69,315/- claimed on deferred basis is
rightly allowed by CIT(A). It was further submitted that similar issue came up for consideration in
AY 2006-07 where the CIT(A) allowed the claim in view of its decision in 42 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

AY 1998-99 where 1/5th of the expenditure on product development
was allowed on deferred basis and the same is upheld by Hon'ble ITAT.
However, in the appeal filed by the revenue against that order, the
Hon'ble ITAT vide its order dt. 22.10.2010, in the absence of the order
of ITAT for AY 1998-99 dt. 13.12.2002 restored the issue to the file of
CIT(A). It is submitted that similar issue came up for consideration in case of
M/s Vijay Solvex Ltd. for AY 1995-96 where product development
expenditure claimed on deferred basis over the period of 5 years was
held allowable in view of the decision of Supreme Court in case of Madras Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd. Vs. CIT 225 ITR 802. It is not in dispute that in all other years, the deferred revenue
expenditure claimed by the assessee has been allowed and therefore in
view of the decision in case of CIT Vs. Excel Industries Ltd. 358 ITR
295, the claim of the assessee is rightly allowed by CIT(A). 6.3 The ld. D/R has supported the order of the AO and also
submitted that the department has not accepted the order of the ld
CIT(A) for AY 2006-07 and the same has been challenged before the
Hon'ble Tribunal. 6.4 We have heard the rival contentions and pursued the material
available on record. The ld CIT(A) has relied on the order of his
predecessor for AY 2006-07 in allowing the relief to the assessee which
is stated to be challenged before the Tribunal. There is nothing on 43 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

record to throw light on the status of the appeal filed before the
Tribunal for AY 2006-07. We accordingly set aside the matter to the file
of the AO to consider and decide the matter afresh. In the result, the
ground of Revenue is allowed for statistical purposes. 7. Now, coming to revenue's ground of appeal no. 3 challenging the
action of the ld CIT(A) in deleting the disallowance of Rs 15,37,860
made by the AO under section 10A of the Act. Briefly, the facts of the
case are that the assessee claimed exemption u/s 10A at
Rs.1,07,32,784/- on profits of export of software for which Form No.56F
was filed. The AO observed that for working out the net profit of the
software division, assessee has claimed expenditure of Rs.35,38,030/-
wherein under various heads 10% of total expenses has been allocated
towards software export business and no allocation is made towards
certain expenses. No separate books of account of computer export
business are maintained. He therefore, held that assessee has inflated
the profits of the software business and diverted the expenses related
to the software export business to its other business and accordingly
considered 10% of the total expenses of Rs.3,90,07,697/- as per P&L
A/c as tabulated at Pg 8 & 9 of the order, i.e. Rs.39,00,770/- as
relatable to the software export business as against Rs.23,40,074/-
allocated by the assessee and disallowed the claim of exemption u/s
10A by Rs.15,37,860/-. 7.1 On appeal, the Ld. CIT(A) considering the judicial decisions filed
by the assessee and also CBDT Circular in form of Instruction No.1 of
2013 held that expenses should be allocated in the ratio of turnover 44 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

from the export of software business to the total business turnover and
on that basis the expenses allocated by the assessee is more in
computing the profit from software export business. He therefore,
deleted the addition and his findings are as under:- "8.8 I have considered the detailed submissions made along
 with the judicial citations file by the appellant and also the CBDT's
 Circular (FAQs) on this subject issued in the form of Instruction
 No.1 of 2013 (copy filed by the appellant). I agree with the
 contention of the appellant that the expenses could be allocated
 in the ratio of turnover from the export of software business to
 the total business turnover. The expenses allocated by the
 appellant against the turnover from the export of software
 business work out to be more than the allocation possible in the
 ratio of turnover. Thus, I do not find any merit in the arguments
 taken by the AO while making the disallowance and accordingly
 delete the addition of Rs.15,37,860/- made under this head". 7.2. During the course of hearing, the ld AR submitted that assessee
maintains separate ledger of software division which was submitted
before the AO. The law does not envisage maintenance of separate
books of accounts and the CBDT in Circular No.1/2013 dt. 17.01.2013
has also clarified that there is no requirement in law to maintain
separate books of accounts in respect of eligible units for claiming tax
benefit u/s 10A and therefore the same cannot be insisted upon. So far
as allocation of expenses is concerned, the assessee has taken same on
actual basis wherein certain expenses has been allocated at 100%,
some expenses are allocated at more than 10%, some expenses are
allocated lower than 10% and some expenses which has no relationship
with the export of software are not allocated at all. On this basis, 45 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

assessee allocated expenses of Rs.23,40,074/- for working out the
profit from the business of export of software which is also certified by
the Chartered Accountant in Form No.56F. No discrepancy is found by
the AO in such allocation. Otherwise also, allocating 10% of the
expenses as done by the AO is not correct in as much as the expenses
needs to be allocated on the basis of total turnover to the turnover of
the export of software. The ratio of export turnover to total turnover is
4.60% and on that basis allocable expenses would be Rs.17,94,354/- as
against Rs.23,40,074/- already allocated by the assessee. In these
circumstances, the Ld. CIT(A) has rightly deleted the disallowance of
Rs.15,37,860/- made by the AO in the claim of deduction u/s 10A . 7.3 The ld. D/R has submitted that during the year under
consideration the assessee has claimed exemption u/s 10A for
Rs.1,07,32,784/- on profit of export of software. On perusal of
statement of profits on Software business, it was found that the
assessee has claimed total expenditure of Rs. 35,89,030/- to arrive at
net profit of Rs. 1,08,92,154/-. While examining these expenses, it was
found that the assessee has claimed expenditure under various head at
the flat 10% of total expenses claimed in the P&L A/c and even some of
the expenses debited in the P&L A/c has not been accounted for to
arrive at the net profit from Software export business. During
assessment proceeding, it was also noticed that the assessee has not
maintained separate books of account for the software export business
for which the assessee was entitled for deduction u/s 10A . The AO also
observed that the assessee has shifted the expenses related to software
export business in the business where no exemption is available with 46 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

the intention to enhance the exempt income and reduce the taxable
one. Therefore, the AO disallowed Rs. 15,37,860/- on account of
excess exemption claimed u/s 10A . 7.4 We have heard the rival submissions and pursued the material
available on record. There is no specific finding given by the AO as to
why the the basis of allocation of expenses as has been done by the
assessee company is not acceptable and what is the basis of allocating
10% of total expenses to software export division. Further, the ld
CIT(A) has also applied the turnover ratio test and has found the
expense allocation as done by the assessee as reasonable. In light of
the same, we donot see any merit in disturbing the expense allocation
as done by the assessee company. Hence, we confirm the order of the
ld CIT(A) in this regard and the ground no. 3 of revenue's appeal is
dismissed. 8. Now, coming to ground no.4 of the revenue's appeal challenging
the action of the ld CIT(A) in deleting the addition of Rs 20,25,856 on
account of purchase/consumption of packing material. 8.1 Briefly the facts of the case are that the AO observed that
assessee has purchased 1,46,260 bags of soyabean from 01.04.2007 to
13.09.2007. It is claimed by the assessee that soyabean is purchased
from Kota, Bhawani Mandi & Ramganj Mandi for which bardana is
supplied by the assessee. However, during the period 01.04.2007 to
13.09.2007, only 19,353 bags of bardana was purchased. Thereafter,
1,61,500 bags (71,000+53,000+37,500) was purchased between 47 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

14.09.2007 to 18.09.2007 of which 90,500 bags were purchased from
sister concern of the assessee M/s Vijay Solvex Ltd. No documentary
evidence regarding transportation of bardana purchased from M/s Vijay
Solvex Ltd. to Kota, Bhawani Mandi & Ramganj Mandi was filed. The
assessee also did not produce the parties from whom bardana was
purchased for examination. Therefore, the AO held that source of
consumption of 1,26,907 bags of bardana (1,46,260-19,353) remains
unexplained for which he made addition of Rs.20,25,856/-. 8.2. On appeal, the Ld. CIT(A) held that the quantum of purchase and
sale of soyabean has not been doubted by the AO and therefore
requirement of bardana for packing cannot be denied. The evidence
furnished by the appellant is also not denied by the AO. He therefore,
deleted the addition made by the AO and his findings are as under:- 8.3. During the course of hearing, the ld AR submitted that at the time
of purchase of soyabean, the aditya's send the soyabean in their own
bardana and subsequent thereto the assessee purchased the bardana
from M/s Vijay Solvex Ltd. and delivered to aditya's. M/s Vijay Solvex
Ltd. has already purchased the bardana which was lying at Kota, 49 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

Bhawani Mandi & Ramganj Mandi and out of the said bardana, assessee
subsequently replaced the bardana in which soyabean is supplied by the
aditya's. In remand proceedings, assessee has submitted affidavit of Sh.
Chandra Prakash Jain, Manager of Sh. Mahaveer Trading Co. and M/s
Mukesh Kumar Jain & Bros. (PB 150-151) from whom the soyabean was
purchased where he admitted that they sold the soyabean seed in the
bardana lying with them which was subsequently received by them
from the assessee. Assessee also filed confirmation from M/s Vijay
Solvex Ltd. to this effect. Both the affidavit and the confirmation
remained uncontroverted by the AO in the remand report. In these
facts, the Ld. CIT(A) has rightly deleted the addition by holding that
evidence furnished by the assessee has not been denied by the AO. 8.4 The ld. DR has argued the matter and relied upon the decision of
the lower authorities. 8.5 We have heard the rival submissions and pursued the material
available on record. The AO observed that the assessee has purchased
1,46,260 bags of soyabean from various parties from 1.4.2007 to
13.9.2007. And as on 13.9.2007, the assessee has in stock 19,353
bags of bardana (packing material). The question that arose for
consideration was source of consumption of 126,907 bags (146,260 -
19353) of bardana from 1.4.2007 to 13.9.2007. It was also observed
that there is a subsequent purchase of bardana from M/s Vijay Solvex
of 90,500 bags and there is no evidence regarding transportation of
such bardana from M/s Vijay Solvex to Bhawani Mandi, Ramganj Mandi
and Kota. As noted by the ld CIT(A), there is no dispute regarding 50 ITA No. 58 &137/JP/2014 M/s Data Infosys Ltd. vs.DCIT(Hqrs.), Alwar

purchase and sale of 146,260 bags of soyabean which means that
146,260 nos. of bardana were consumed. Regarding the purchase of
such bardana, the assessee has certain stock in hand and the balance
was purchased from M/s Vijay Solvex and others. The modus operandi
of utlisation of such bardana and replacement of the same with the
bardana initially belonging to aditya's has also been explained and in
remand proceedings, assessee has submitted affidavit of Sh. Chandra
Prakash Jain, Manager of Sh. Mahaveer Trading Co. and M/s Mukesh
Kumar Jain & Bros. The stock of bardana purchased by M/s Vijay
Solvex Ltd. was lying at Kota and therefore, this stock was delivered to
the Adatiyas was also explained along with the confirmation from M/s
Vijay Solvex Ltd. to this effect. In light of all these facts which have
been duly considered by the ld CIT(A), we donot see any infirmity in his
order on this account and the same is hereby confirmed. In the result,
revenue's ground no. 4 is dismissed. In the result, the appeal of the assessee as well as the appeal of the
revenue are partly allowed for statistical purposes. vkns'k dh izfrfyfi vxzfs 'kr@Copy of the order forwarded to: