(PER : HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE J.B.PARDIWALA) 1. By this writ application under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India filed in public interest, the writ applicant, a
practicing advocate, has prayed for the following reliefs: (C ) To pass any other and further orders as may be
 deemed fit and proper to this Hon'ble Court." 2. The case put up by the writ applicant, in public interest,
may be summarized as under: Article 246 of the Constitution of India refers to the legislative
power between the Union and the State Legislatures and the
distribution of such power is to be found in the 7 th Schedule of
the Constitution. "Betting and Gambling" fall within the Entry
No. 34 of List II (State List) in the 7 th Schedule of the
Constitution of India, which would empower the State
Legislature to legislate in respect to the subject matter. Each
State Legislature is empowered to enact the laws in so far as
gambling is concerned. 2.3 It is pointed out to us by the learned counsel appearing for
the writ applicant that one would get to see several
advertisements of the gambling websites while accessing mobile
applications and social media on smart phones. Such
advertisements would entice individuals with small amount as
credit to start playing rummy promising lakhs of rupees in
return. Such incentives lure the people to indulge in gambling
and, ultimately, get addicted to the same. 2.4 It is in the aforesaid context that according to the writ
applicant, the present legal framework in reference to the
gambling should be regulated to include the virtual or
online/Cyber space aspect. This, according to the learned
counsel, would ensure that the online activities, so far as
gambling is concerned, would be amenable to the jurisdiction of
the law enforcing authority. 2.5 The writ applicant has placed on record ample materials to
indicate the growing menace of "online gambling". 3. Mr. Hasurkar has also brought to our notice many Page 3 of 13 Downloaded on : Mon Mar 01 03:34:33 IST 2021 C/WPPIL/146/2020 JUDGMENT

important articles on the subject. One such article at
Annexure-G, Page 80/A reveals that the online Rummy is a
Rs.2,200/- Crore industry in India, accounting for half of the
country's online gaming business. It is further stated that it
comes with serious problems. The players tend to get addicted
to it, often exhausting themselves and their money. The players
tend to game the system by colluding with other players. 4. A lot was argued as regards the issue whether Rummy is a
game of skill or not. There need not be any debate on this issue
as Rummy is a game of skill as held by the Supreme Court, for
the first time, in the case of State of Andhra Pradesh vs. K.
Satyanarayana & Ors. , reported in AIR 1968 SC 825 and later
followed in the case of K.R. Lakshmanan vs. State of Tamil
Nadu & Ors. , reported in AIR 1996 SC 1153. However, the moot
question is whether what is being played is "Rummy" in its true
sense or it is just pure and simple gambling. This again would
depend on individual facts of the case. 5. The problem today is that in the absence of appropriate
amendments in the provisions of the Act, 1887, no check or
action is being taken when it comes to "online gambling". 6. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to the definition of
the term "Common Gaming-House" as defined under Section 4 of the Act, 1887. The same reads thus; 7. The plain reading of the aforesaid definition would indicate
that it is completely silent on the aspect of "online gambling",
more particularly, "online rummy", meaning thereby that an
individual would get arrested only if he is caught playing
rummy/cards outside/in a gambling den in the State of Gujarat,
whereas an individual playing "online rummy" cannot be
arrested or booked for the offence of gambling. 8. Mr. Hasurkar, the learned counsel is right in his own way
that a comprehensive regulatory framework is necessary to
regulate the "online gambling/rummy" and to curb any illegal Page 5 of 13 Downloaded on : Mon Mar 01 03:34:33 IST 2021 C/WPPIL/146/2020 JUDGMENT

activities as well. 9. We have also indicated above that rummy, in its true
sense, if played, is not gambling but then it is always argued
that what was being played was rummy and not gambling. 10. In the aforesaid context, our attention has been drawn to a
Division Bench decision of the Madras High Court in the case of The Director General of Police, State of Tamil Nadu vs.
Mahalakshmi Cultural Association , reported in 2012 (2) CTC
484, wherein the Court has observed as under: 11. Our attention has also been drawn to one order passed by Page 7 of 13 Downloaded on : Mon Mar 01 03:34:33 IST 2021 C/WPPIL/146/2020 JUDGMENT

the Delhi High Court dated 28th November, 2019 in the Writ
Petition (C ) Nos. 5661 of 2019 and 11472 of 2019 respectively
in the case between M/s. Deepati Bhagat vs. Union of India
& Anr. , wherein the Delhi High Court disposed of the writ
petitions, observing as under; 12. What is important for us to take note of is the Telangana
Gaming Act, 1974 . The amended definition of "Common
Gaming-House" in the Act, 1974, more particularly, Section 2(1) (i)(f) reads thus; [(ii) in the case of any other form of gaming, any house,
 room, tent, enclosure, vehicle, vessel, cyber space or any
 place whatsoever in which any instruments of gaming are
 kept or used for the profit or gain of the person owning,
 occupying, using or keeping such house, room,
 tent,enclosure, vehicle, vessel, cyber space or any place,
 whether by way of charge for the use of such house, room,
 tent, enclosure, vehicle, vessel, cyber space or any place or
 instruments of gaming or otherwise howsoever; Explanation:- For the purpose of sub-clause (ii), any
 premises or place or cyber space belonging to or occupied
 by a club, society, company or other association of persons,
 whether incorporated or not, which is used or kept for
 purposes of gaming shall be deemed to be a common
 gaming house notwithstanding that there is no profit or gain
 for the club, society, company or other association of
 persons on account thereof;] Page 9 of 13 Downloaded on : Mon Mar 01 03:34:33 IST 2021 C/WPPIL/146/2020 JUDGMENT

(2) "gaming" means playing a game for winnings or prizes
in money or otherwise and includes playing a game of
mutka or satta [or online gaming for money or any other
stakes] and lucky board and wagering or betting, except
where such wagering or betting takes place upon a horse-
race- (i) on the day on which the horse-race is to be run ; (ii) in an enclosure which the stewards controlling the
horse-race 6[or race meeting] have, with the sanction of the
Government set apart for the purpose ; and (iii) (a) with a licensed book maker ; or (b) by means of a totalisator ; but does not include a lottery ; Explanation.--For the purpose of this clause- [(i) Wagering or betting shall include,- (a) collection or soliciting of bets; (b) the receipt or distribution of winnings or prizes in money
or otherwise in respect of any wager or bet; (c) any act which is intended to aid, induce, solicit or
facilitate wagering or betting or such collection, soliciting,
receipt or distribution; (d) any act of risking money, or otherwise on the unknown
result of an event including on a game of skill; (e) any action specified in sub-clause (a) to (d) carried out
directly or indirectly by the players playing any game or by
any third parties;] (ii) "totalisator" means a totalisator in an enclosure which
the stewards controlling a race meeting have set apart in
accordance with sub-clause (ii) and includes any
instrument, machine or contrivance known as the totalisator
or any other instrument, machine or contrivance of a like
nature or any scheme for enabling any number of persons Page 10 of 13 Downloaded on : Mon Mar 01 03:34:33 IST 2021 C/WPPIL/146/2020 JUDGMENT

 to make bets with one another on the like principles; [(iii) "race meeting‟ means a meeting held for the purpose of
 horse racing at a race course within the State of Telangana
 and includes a meeting held at such race course for the
 purpose of betting on any horse race at any other race
 course outside the State.] " 13. The plain reading of the amended definition of "common
gaming-house" in the Telangana Act of 1974 would indicate that
"gaming" includes online gaming for money or any other stakes.
The explanation , referred to above , would indicate that for the
purpose of sub-clause (ii), any premises or place or cyber space
belonging to or occupied by a club, society, company or other
association of persons used or kept for the purposes of gaming is
deemed to be a common gaming-house. The definition of the
term "common gaming-house" as defined under Section 4 of the
Act, 1887 also needs to be amended appropriately so as to
include the "online gambling" within its ambit. 14. Internet gambling presents essentially many of the same
concerns that the traditional gambling activities have raised
throughout the years: uneasiness about the morality of the
activity; the likelihood of addiction; the possibility of fraud; and
the conflict between the state versus central regulations. The
questions of morality primarily surface in connection with the
Internet gambling's accessibility to children because children
have potentially unlimited access to the computers and the
Internet. It is possible that without proper monitoring they may
access to the gambling Websites as readily as they could access
the indecent materials. The supporters of a ban of Internet
gambling maintain that outlawing the activity for all individuals
is the only way to ensure that a segment of the population, Page 11 of 13 Downloaded on : Mon Mar 01 03:34:33 IST 2021 C/WPPIL/146/2020 JUDGMENT

children, will be adequately protected from corruption. 15. Thus, in the overall view of the matter, we have reached to
the conclusion that the writ applicant has pointed out something
very important in public interest, but the question is, to what
extent, we can impose upon the State Government to do the
needful. It is not permissible for us, in exercise of our writ
jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution, to direct the
State Government to enact a particular type of legislation to take
care of the situation. However, we can always draw the attention
of the State Government to all the aforesaid facts so that the
State Government can look into the matter at the earliest and do
the needful in accordance with law. 16. Ms. Manisha Luvkumar Shah, the learned Government
Pleader has appeared on behalf of the State on an advanced copy
of the petition being served in the office of the Government
Pleader. Ms. Shah fairly submitted that the issue raised in this
public interest litigation is of utmost importance and the
Government shall look into the same at the earliest in
accordance with law. Ms. Shah would submit that let this writ
application be treated as a representation and the same shall be
duly considered by the Government in accordance with law. 17. We propose to dispose of this writ application on the very
same line like the one of Delhi High Court , referred to above , by
directing the State of Gujarat to treat this writ application as a
representation and do the needful in the larger public interest. 18. Our final order is as under: (VIKRAM NATH, CJ)

 (J. B. PARDIWALA, J)

Vahid Page 13 of 13 Downloaded on : Mon Mar 01 03:34:33 IST 2021