(Per: HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE)

 Date : 20-06-2024

 Equality of opportunity pitted against reparations for

 long years of deprivation of equality, has been the subject of

 judicial discourse while adjudicating affirmative action;

 introduced both by the Central and State Governments within

 this country. One of such affirmative action exceeding the 50%

 limit; as prescribed by a 9 Judge Constitution Bench in Indra

 Sawhney v. Union of India , 1992 Supp (3) SCC 217,

 enhancing reservation to 65% within the State of Bihar, is

 challenged in these batch of writ petitions. The State has

 brought in such reservation based on the Caste Survey, which

 found the majority of the population within the State, belonging

 to the marginalized and deprived communities of Backward &
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 8/87 Extremely Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled

 Tribes. The petitioners cry foul on the perceived sacrifice of

 merit, thus, frustrating the fundamental right of equality of

 opportunity in public employment & admissions to educational

 institutions, guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution of

 India. 2. Shri Mrigank Mauli, learned Senior Counsel led the

 arguments for the petitioners which commenced with the

 statement that the entire edifice of the Amendment Act and the

 enhancement in reservation, is built upon the Caste Survey, the

 results of which were published just a few days before the

 Amendment Bill was introduced in the Legislature. The Caste

 Survey notified on 06.06.2022 was completed by 05.08.2023

 and the report published on 02.10.2023. The caste wise socio-

 economic report was brought out on 07.11.2023 and the bill was

 tabled hastily on 09.11.2023. There was hence, no analysis

 carried out despite the Preamble of the Act referring to such an

 analysis. The automatic escalation of the percentage for each

 and every caste referred to in the Bihar Reservation of Vacancies

 in Posts and Services (for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled

 Tribes and Other Backward Classes) Act, 1991, (hereinafter

 referred to as 'Reservation Act'), was mechanically carried out
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 9/87 without reference to the real facts & figures coming out of the

 Caste Survey. It is specifically argued that though land holding

 of every individual was one of the terms of reference in the caste

 survey, there was no analysis of the economic status of each

 community granted reservation, based on the details of the land

 holdings collected in the survey or an examination of the

 productive nature of such holding. 3. The Preamble was read over to us which according

 to the learned Senior Counsel speaks of a proportional

 representation having been attempted, as is the provision of

 reservation in elections to local bodies. It is pointed out that

 such proportional representation, confined to SC and ST, as

 coming out from 243D and 243T, based on Article 330(2) cannot be imported automatically into Article 16. Article 16(4) specifically speaks of adequate representation as the yardstick to

 determine the benchmark, for providing reservation in

 appointments in posts, to any backward class of citizens.

 Though the word 'adequate' is not employed in Article 15(4) ,

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held it to be a valid basis for

 understanding the social and educational standards of backward

 class of citizens and of the SC and ST. The economic criteria

 hence, is an important index on which the percentage of
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 10/87 reservation has to be considered which has been totally ignored

 while bringing out the present amendment. It is also pointed out

 that the rejoinder of the petitioner makes a better analysis of the

 facts and figures coming out of the caste survey; which also

 would belie the contention of the State in support of

 enhancement of the percentage of reservation. 4. Referring to the Preamble, the learned Senior

 Counsel also points out the casual manner in which drafting was

 carried out, employing words without any meaning, especially

 in the portion where the very object of the amendment is

 proclaimed. The affirmative measure has been wrongly termed a

 'major' and for data, the word 'date' has been used. The

 Legislation proceeds on the basis that the population of the State

 is divided into 85%; comprising of SC, ST and Backward

 Classes and the balance 15% alone from the unreserved

 category. The entire substratum of the amendment turns on the

 computation of reservation percentage available to the

 unreserved category; which is an exercise of determining

 proportionate representation. It is patently illegal and irregular

 and there is no constitutional sanction for making such

 proportional reservation under Article 15 and 16; akin to that

 made under Article 243 D and 243 T.
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 11/87 5. Indra Sawhney (supra) was specifically referred to

 and the history of Article 15 and 16 was traced, to point out that

 whenever there was an interference caused by a decision of the

 Courts, the Constitution itself was amended for maintaining the

 affirmative action. In fact, the 50% rule as brought in by Indra

 Sawhney (supra) has been accepted by the Union Parliament

 while introducing clause (4-A) in Article 16 which has been

 upheld in K. Krishna Murthy v. Union of India , (2010) 7 SCC 202. Under Article 16(4-A) , the backlog vacancies were

 specifically held to be not violating the 50% rule and this is the

 only situation in which the ceiling of 50% would not be

 applicable. Specific reference was made to clause (6) of both Articles 15 and 16 , wherein the 10% reservation was made for

 the Economically Backward Communities of the unreserved

 category by the 103rd amendment. This was upheld by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Janhit Abhiyan v. Union of India

 (EWS Reservation), (2023) 5 SCC 1. The decision was relied on

 to argue that proportionality can never justify excessive

 reservation above the 50% limit. Once more emphasis was laid,

 insofar as the said measure having been brought in by a

 Constitutional Amendment, which is lacking in the present case.

 The source of the power of the State is Article 15(4) and 16(4) Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 12/87 which has to be regulated by the authoritative pronouncements

 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court regarding the breach not being

 possible of 50% reservation. Otherwise, it would be in total

 frustration of merit, which would violate the constitutional

 guarantee of equal opportunity. 6. Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil v. State of Maharashtra ,

 (2021) 8 SCC 1 is relied on, which reaffirmed the maximum of

 50% in reservations as laid down in Indra Sawhney (supra);

 binding under Article 141. The prayer for reference of Indra

 Sawhney (supra) to a larger bench was rejected clearly finding

 that the thumping majority of five judges out of nine was in

 favour of the reservations being limited to 50% while three

 dissenting judges held that reservation can only be lesser than

 50%. Only one of the judges differed from this and found it

 possible even above 50%. It was found that M. Nagaraj v.

 Union of India , (2006) 8 SCC 212 also did not lay down any

 ratio that ceiling of 50% reservation can be exceeded by

 showing contemporary data regarding backwardness. The

 Commission which approved the reservation in excess of 50%,

 impugned in the cited decision, was found to have completely

 misconstrued the ratio of a number of Constitution Bench

 decisions, while taking the view that ceiling of 50% can be
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 13/87 breached merely on the basis of quantifiable data. M. Nagaraj (supra) was also read over to us where tests were laid down to

 judge the validity of affirmative action, which the impugned

 legislation herein fails to pass. The mere existence of power to

 implement an affirmative measure cannot justify an over-

 breadth, especially when there is a breach of the 50% limit. 7. The Mandal Commission report was referred to

 from the rejoinder, in which the three factors considered were

 social, educational & economic. In the present survey, though

 there was emphasis on the economic factors regarding income,

 land holding etc: the details of land holdings and whether they

 are productive and/or unproductive were not at all disclosed in

 the report, thus undermining the development which has been

 achieved by certain of the communities. The economic aspect,

 which is crucial in determining the social and educational status

 of castes or communities, has been completely ignored while

 considering the need for enhancement of reservation. Definitely,

 there would have been improvement in the status of a

 community by the affirmative action which has been in place for

 the last 75 years which had to be reckoned and at least certain

 castes excluded from the category of marginalized and deprived;

 thus ensuring their exit from the backward classes.
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 14/87 8. Shri Mrigank Mauli, learned Senior Counsel also

 took us to the rejoinder filed in CWJC No. 17770 0f 2023, in

 which a detailed analysis is provided regarding the data as

 discernible from the Caste Survey, which, according to him,

 would belie the contention of the State that no proportionate

 representation has been provided based on the inclusion in the

 various services. On the aspect of judicial review, Jaishri

 Laxmanrao Patil (supra) is referred to and para-261 specifically

 pointed out where the Hon'ble Supreme Court had looked into

 the data produced. As held in the cited decision, the present

 exercise attempted by the State is a fraud on the Constitution.

 The affirmative action is intended at providing a level playing

 field and not a device to provide facilities to certain

 communities, who may not be necessarily marginalized or down

 trodden. The concept of proportionate representation is alien to Article 15(4) and Article 16(4); which aspect, when intended,

 was specifically referred to in the Constitution of India, as

 disclosed from Articles 243-D , 243-T , 330 and 332. 9. Adequate representation, as held in M. Nagaraj (supra), can only be to ascertain the backwardness and the

 affirmative action should be only to such an extent as to not

 compromise the efficiency in administration. Reference was
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 15/87 made to Chebrolu Leela Prasad Rao v. State of Andhra

 Pradesh ; (2021) 11 SCC 401, wherein 100% reservation was

 found to be proportional when the area was comprised fully of

 tribals. The words of Dr. B.R.Ambedkar, as extracted in Para-

 104, was specifically read out and reliance was placed on Para-

 109 to emphasize that adequate representation does not mean

 proportionate representation. Para-810 of Indra Sawhney (supra) was emphatically pointed out as the only circumstance

 in which there could be more than 50% reservation; which is not

 available in the present case. 10. Union of India v. Rakesh Kumar ; (2010) 4 SCC

 50 was relied on to contend that more than 50% is possible only

 when there is a proportionate representation permitted by the

 Constitution, as in Article 243D. With respect to the subjective

 satisfaction regarding the backwardness of one community or

 the other and the principles of judicial scrutiny involved, heavy

 reliance is placed on Barium Chemicals Ltd. vs. Company Law

 Board ; AIR 1967 SC 295. In conclusion, it is reiterated that

 there is absolutely no thought or deliberation, which went into

 such excessive reservation being granted and there was not even

 a reference to the Backward Commission constituted by a

 statute. Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 16/87 11. Shri Gopal Shankaranarayanan, learned Senior

 Counsel appearing in CWJC No. 16760 of 2023, pin pointed the

 historical evolution of the judicial precedents with respect to

 affirmative action by first distinguishing those decisions under Articles 15 and 16 and then co-relating them. In a challenge

 made with respect to an affirmative action under Article 16(4) , it

 was upheld in B. Venkataramana v. State of Madras & Anr. ;

 AIR 1951 SC 229. Later in State of Madras vs. Champakam

 Dorairajan ; 1951 SCR 525 it was held that there is no provision

 under Article 15 akin to Article 16(4); upon which by

 amendment, clause (4) was brought into Article 15. M.R.Balaji

 Vs. State of Mysore ; 1962 SCR Supl. (1)439, for the first time,

 dealt with the 50% limit in reservations, which was followed in Devadasan vs. Union of India ; (1964) 4 SCR 680, under Article

 16 and R.Chitralekha v. State of Mysore ; (1964) 6 SCR 368,

 under Article 15. M.R.Balaji (supra), under Article 15 , though

 upheld the principle of reservation to educational institutions,

 found that 50% is reasonable and adequate. State of Kerala &

 Ors. v. N.M.Thomas ; (1976) 2 SCC 310, while upholding the

 two years exemption granted for promotion from test

 qualification to SCs/STs, all the same held that the reservation at

 no point should cross 50%. Indra Sawhney (supra) saw a
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 17/87 confluence of the principles laid down in the decisions under Articles 15 and 16 and harmonized the seeming distinction in N.M.Thomas (supra) from M.R.Balaji (supra). 12. The learned Senior Counsel specifically pointed

 out that the 50% reservation has a history of 120 years, it having

 been first legitimized by Rajarshi Sahoo Maharaj of Kolhapur

 who brought in quotas in the appointments to the government; a

 full 48 years before Independent India adopted the Constitution.

 The learned Senior Counsel emphasized that none of the cited

 decisions applied proportionality to Article 15 or Article 16 and

 the term was glaringly absent in the said provision. Referring to

 Indra Sawhney (supra), again on the scope and reach of judicial

 scrutiny in matters within the subjective satisfaction of the

 executive; the principles as stated in Barium Chemicals (supra), was emphasized. The principle in Indra Sawhney (supra) applies equally in the case of the constitutional

 provision at Article 15(4) , like Article 16(4) , which expressly

 places the particular fact of inadequate representation within the

 subjective judgment of the State/Executive. Referring to

 Paragraph-81 of Indra Sawhney (supra), it was emphasized that

 the special circumstances stated therein does not arise at all in

 the present case. Reference was made to the various provisions,
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 18/87 which were already placed before Court to point out that when

 proportionate representation was intended, it was spelt out in the

 Constitution and there can be no importation of the term where

 it is absent. Where there is no such mention, the principle is not

 applicable and applying it would create excessive reservation,

 thus frustrating the cause of equality. 13. In Jarnail Singh & Ors. v. Lachhmi

 NarainGupta & Ors. ; (2018) 10 SCC 396, the learned Judges

 refused to refer the decision in M. Nagraj (supra) to a larger

 Bench and it was clarified that there can be no determination of

 backwardness for SC/ST, which, however, is the necessary

 ingredient to include the communities and classify them as

 backward communities. The five Judge Bench noticed the

 difference in language between Article 16 (4-A) and that in Articles 330 and 332. 14. Under Articles 15 and 16 , there can be no

 distinction insofar as the applicability of the limit of 50% for

 reservations. The question of adequacy in representation, under Article 16(4) , applies only when backwardness has to be

 ascertained, which alone could result in affirmative action being

 applied for backward communities. In summing up, the learned

 Senior Counsel would emphasize that there can be no
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 19/87 reservation granted beyond the 50% limit except in exceptional

 circumstances, as referred to in Indra Sawhney (supra).

 Consistently for the last 70 years, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 has fixed the ceiling of 50% in reservations; to ensure that there

 is no compromise of merit. Indra Sawhney (supra) achieved a

 confluence of the two strands of principles delineated in the

 decisions on Articles 15 and 16 and emphasized that adequacy

 of representation can only be to provide reservation and it

 cannot be equated with a proportionate representation enabling

 the 50% limit to be exceeded. Article 16(4-B) was introduced to

 ensure that the carry forward vacancies within the reservation

 quota of a year was not included in the quota for a subsequent

 selection year, which indirectly provided a constitutional

 imprimatur to the 50% ceiling in reservations as declared by the

 decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Arguments were also

 addressed on the National Backward Commission having not

 been consulted, which, according to the learned Senior Counsel,

 is a mandate as per Article 338. Reliance is also placed on Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil (supra) to further the said argument. 15. Shri Sanjay Singh, learned Senior Counsel who

 appeared in CWJC No. 18008 of 2023, pointed out that equality

 is the foundational argument, both for and against reservation.
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 20/87 Indra Sawhney (supra) was referred, to point out that equality

 forms a basic structure of the Constitution and to breach the

 50% limit in granting reservations would cause interference to

 the basic structure. Referring to the data placed before this

 Court, it is argued that it does not suggest lack of adequate

 representation. The common thread of challenge that there is no

 recommendation made to a Backward Commission, either at the

 national level or that constituted within the State and the

 legislature too acted in haste, was adopted fully. The data as

 revealed from the Caste Survey would make it imperative that

 certain castes are excluded from the backward communities. But

 rather than considering exclusion, further benefits have been

 granted to them, thus depriving other backward communities

 from such benefits and also impinging into the merit-based

 considerations. Paragraph-422 was referred, to point out the test

 laid down for adequacy, which has not been fulfilled in the

 present exercise. The interjection made by the learned Advocate

 General regarding the subject petitions, not agitating exclusion

 or inclusion of castes in the OBC list; was resisted on the ground

 that, without such consideration, reservation would be excessive

 and impinge upon the equality clause. The data; at least with

 respect to certain communities now entitled to enhanced
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 21/87 reservation, projects the illegality of protection offered to those

 not suffering from any lack of representation in government

 employment. Even considering proportional representation there

 is no reason to continue reservation at least for some of the

 castes who have made long strides in coming to the mainstream. The term backward does not mean that one remains so forever

 as held in Paragraph 629 of Indra Sawhney (supra). In the 75

 years of independence, the benefits granted to the various

 marginalized communities would definitely have resulted in

 certain communities having benefited largely and progressed

 both socially, educationally and economically. This is the

 foundation for bringing in the principle of creamy layer and if

 the exclusion of such progressed communities, groups, classes

 and individuals is not being considered, then it would be a fraud

 on the power conferred for affirmative action. Not only would

 merit be compromised but those who still wallow in

 backwardness would also stand denied of their right to be

 uplifted. It is pointed out that the data from the Caste Survey

 reveals that four communities have progressed considerably in

 the past years and they do not require any more reservation. Dr.

 Ambedkar's words from Indra Sawhney (supra), Paragraph 693

 was specifically read out. Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 22/87 16. Shri Dinu Kumar, learned Counsel appearing in

 CWJC No. 18007 of 2023, argued that by the present enactment,

 the reservation due to economically weaker sections of 10%, as

 granted in the Act of 1991, is completely obliterated. It is

 pointed out that separate enactments were brought in for

 admission to educational institutions and appointment in

 services, both of which violate the basic principles of

 affirmative action. 17. Shri Abhinav Shrivastava, learned Counsel

 appearing in CWJC No. 17916 of 2023, argues that the

 decisions, as referred to by the learned Senior Counsel, speak in

 the same tone, profess an identical ideology and declare a like

 proposition. They eulogize and propound, with a uniform tenor

 and spirit, a balance between equality and affirmative action;

 strikingly the need of the hour. The State's attempt to overreach

 and overstep the 50% limit is a clear abuse of the enabling

 provision under the Constitution. The fact that the close

 proximity within which the legislation was brought out; two

 days after the caste survey report came, disclose the undue haste

 and clearly indicates that there was no deliberation on the new

 measure adopted. The Preamble of the Act was read over to

 again point out that the entire exercise is carried out very
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 23/87 casually. Barium Chemicals Ltd. (supra) was reiterated to

 emphasize the principles governing the exercise of a power

 conferred by the Constitution or a Statute, which cannot at all be

 on a subjective satisfaction. The present exercise is

 constitutionally impermissible, especially when the State

 argument is anchored on proportional representation. Not every

 community aspires for a government job and the proportional

 representation in any event is beyond the constitutional

 framework. Affirmative action has been held to be a recompense

 for the long deprivation, which cannot, all the same,

 compromise merit and efface it totally or even considerably. In a

 democracy, the Government propounds the majority will, but a

 constitutional governance ensures the protection of minorities. It

 is pointed out from judicial pronouncements that Judges have

 often, with some dismay, spoken of the tendency in this country

 to clamour for being included in the backward classes.

 Disadvantages suffered over the years, is not necessarily the

 measure employed in determining backwardness and extraneous

 considerations, for immediate appeasement, reign supreme. 18. The learned Counsel would also argue on the non-

 disclosure of the land holding, which is the basis of an equitable

 consideration to bring out a more egalitarian society, wherein
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 24/87 the persons who labour on the lands also get a right over it.

 Agriculture is one of the major activities and is a very important

 economic factor, at least, within the State of Bihar. It is also

 pointed out that there are many horizontal reservations, like 35%

 for females, 2% for grand-children of freedom fighters and 4%

 for persons with disabilities, which further reduces the quota for

 unreserved category. 19. Shri Nirbhay Prashant, learned Counsel appearing

 in CWJC No. 16882 of 2023, adopted the arguments of the other

 counsel. Shri Vikash Kumar, a young lawyer appeared in person

 and argued vehemently on the concepts of equality and the

 attempt to strike a balance by the affirmative action as provided

 in Articles 15(4) and 16(4). The right to reservation is not a

 super fundamental right and the 50% limit, as imposed by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court, arise also from Article 335. Insofar as

 the data collection is concerned, the same is argued to be a

 complete fraud since the Caste Survey shows only 1.15% of the

 State population having internet connection whereas 56% of the

 people in the State are said to possess smart phones, as revealed

 in a survey. 20. The learned Advocate General commenced with a

 profound statement that just as inventions and research have
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 25/87 contributed significantly to evolution of human society, the

 unique Caste Survey as carried out by the State of Bihar is an

 exercise which would open new vistas and new dimensions

 redefining the philosophy of social milieu. It would also tread a

 new path in achieving the goal of an egalitarian society and in

 its wake, of course would be brought forth new challenges

 which are henceforth unknown. For this very reason, the learned

 Advocate General submitted that he would be relying heavily on

 the decision of this Court which upheld the exercise of Caste

 Survey, to substantiate the reservation percentage now brought

 in by the State which is exceptional in its own way and cannot

 be compared to the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 which dealt with 'Jatt' and 'Maratha' reservations. 21. The significant revelations with respect to the

 social milieu in this State, discernible from the details disclosed

 on the Caste Survey is unparalleled and for that reason alone

 would be the foundation of the arguments to substantiate the

 breach of 50 per cent which even according to the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court is not an unimpeachable rule. The ground raised

 of a hasty decision cannot be validly put forth against a

 legislation and the learned counsel for the petitioners have read

 the Preamble only to point out certain spelling mistakes. This
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 26/87 accusation cannot form the basis of the contention that the

 present amendment made to the reservation policy of the State,

 is motivated on the proportion of the Backward and Extremely

 Backward Communities. Constitutional validity of a legislation

 can be challenged only on two grounds, one of lack of

 legislative competence and the other of infraction of any of the

 fundamental rights or the provisions of the Constitution. No

 arguments were addressed on these two aspects and the

 petitioners had unnecessarily laboured only on the spelling

 mistakes in the Amendment Act and also the concept of

 proportionality which they believe is solely relied upon, for the

 subject enhancement of the reservation percentage. The question

 of inclusion or exclusion of a caste is alien to the amendment

 and also not relevant in the context of the challenge made in the

 batch of cases. 22. Indra Sawhney (supra) itself holds that 50 per

 cent is not an inviolable rule. The mere introduction of Article

 16(4B) is not a pointer to the fact that the Constitution has

 accepted that 50 per cent reservation or that it can never be

 breached. In fact Article 16(4B) is an instance of breach and the

 50% reservation, as brought in by the Constitution Bench

 decision, is capable of being overlooked in exemplary
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 27/87 circumstances as provided in that decision itself. The petitioners

 challenge to the legislation on grounds of haste, a Commission

 not having been constituted or consulted to look into the details

 of the Caste Survey, spelling mistakes and the reference to

 proportionate representation in the Preamble are to be rejected at

 the outset as untenable. It is pointed out that in none of the

 decisions, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has said that the 50%

 limit for reservation is an inviolable rule and often it has been

 clarified that it is otherwise; capable of being overreached by the

 State, if there is sufficient cause shown. Janhit Abhiyan,

 Jarnail Singh and Dr. Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil (all supra), are

 in quite distinct situations from that available in the present

 case; wherein the details as discernible from the Caste Survey

 clearly indicates the requirement for an enhanced reservation. 23. The original Reservation Act has not been

 challenged and the challenge is only with respect to the

 amendment made enhancing the percentage of reservation to

 each of the marginalized categories as identified in the

 enactment. The present litigation is not with respect to inclusion

 or exclusion of any caste or community in the reservation net.

 The reference to the Mandal Commission and the parameters

 reckoned are not at all relevant since Mandal Commission was
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 28/87 with respect to identification of backward communities. The

 Caste Survey has reckoned the entire population within the State

 of Bihar and assessed their social, educational and economic

 status. In Dr. Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil (supra), the 'Marathas',

 a new group was included under the backward communities,

 while under the subject amendment to the Reservation Act, there

 is no such inclusion or exclusion and the State continues with

 the identified backward classes as has been occasioned in the

 year 1991. The decision in Dr. Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil (supra),

 hence, is not applicable to the facts of the present case. Dr.

 Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil (supra) also held; on a reference to the

 Gaikwad Commission, which was the basis of the inclusion of

 'Marathas', that there was inadequate material to hold that the

 entire Marathas were enabled of classification as backward

 communities under Articles 15(4) and 16(4). 24. Insofar as Janhit Abhiyan (supra) is concerned,

 there was an economically weaker section identified who was

 granted a percentage of reservation; which also makes it

 inapplicable to the present case. The learned Advocate General

 took us through the details of the Caste Survey and pointed out

 that it was based on an analysis of the data supplied; which is an

 empirical objective data not based on any subjective opinion and
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 29/87 collected on a real-time basis, that the present enhancement of

 percentage in reservation has been carried out. Despite the

 reservation granted in the past so many years, the SC, ST and

 BC lagged behind by miles. It is pointed out that 98 lakh

 families, as per the Caste Survey, still exist at a monthly income

 of Rs. 6000/- per month. The condition in Bihar is not

 comparable to the other States and is below the national average

 in all parameters of development. There are schemes launched

 by the State to uplift the economically weaker sections of

 society by providing facilities and also monitory assistance, but

 all these do not meet the required standard to ensure upliftment

 of the marginalized. It is on deep contemplation of the ground

 realities, immediate steps were taken to make equality a reality

 and not an abstract concept, by ensuring spread of education and

 reasonable distribution of employment opportunities to the

 marginalized, for which purpose the impugned exercise has

 been undertaken. The intention to ensure upliftment of the

 marginalized sections is very clear and the analysis of data

 collected in the Caste Survey justifies the affirmative action,

 which is only a revisit of the existing Reservation Act. The

 interim order in the Maratha case, as is evident from Dr. Jaishri

 Laxmanrao Patil v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. , (2021) 2
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 30/87 SCC 785, is pointed out to argue that if the facts were similar,

 the State of Bihar would not have any case, but the facts are

 quite distinct & different; clearly justifying the enhanced

 reservation of 65%. The 50% rule, it is reiterated, is not a rule

 of uniform and universal application and the numerical bench

 mark has been breached to achieve the long-desired need of

 social capital for the down trodden to empower them and evoke

 in them an aspiration to achieve equality. This, according to the

 learned Advocate General is the surest immunity against

 discrimination, especially in the special circumstance existing in

 the State of Bihar. 25. The Caste Survey and the report prepared; based

 on collection of empirical data has not been challenged whereas

 in the Maratha case, the reliance on the report of the Gaikwad

 Commission was held to be erroneous. While the Maratha case

 does not support an extraordinary circumstance; insofar as the

 State of Bihar is concerned, it is on a totally different set of

 facts. The Caste Survey reached almost 12 crore people and the

 data collected is real time with every family being surveyed and

 only a negligible portion of the population not participating.

 Again, exclusion and inclusion are not the subject matter of the

 present case. The confluence of all religions in a federal State;
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 31/87 where the legacy of feudalism continues to plague ownership of

 lands conferred by permanent settlements, impedes

 development. Backwardness, characterized by mere birth into

 communities, refuses to die down, despite the varied and

 numerous endeavours by the State to bring in social reform. The

 numerically vast population and the marginalized majority

 confronts the State with a grave challenge in its constant

 struggle to achieve the goal of an egalitarian society. 26. The State has the plenary sovereign power to

 legislate, which is not dependent on the recommendations of a

 Backward Commission; whether it be at the National or State

 level. The enhanced reservation is on the legislative wisdom

 garnered from the wealth of past experience and also the

 immediate & present empirical data collected from the vast

 population within the State. There is no reason to bring in

 standards laid down by other Commissions, including the

 Mandal Commission. The objective considerations as would be

 discernible from the Caste Survey undertook, marks out the

 present legislation impugned in the batch of writ petitions, as

 not only justifiable but also valid. The learned Advocate General

 took us through the Caste Survey report and the minute details

 of the various communities, as coming out from the said report;
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 32/87 which is stated to be history in the making, though proportionate

 representation is not permissible. Understanding proportion will

 be a relevant measure for determining adequacy, which has

 resulted in the increased reservation granted to the backward

 communities, who are the majority of the vast population of the

 State. The parameters of judicial review as has been laid down

 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, was specifically pointed out to

 urge that the impugned legislation is not perverse, per se

 defective or illegal or irrational by any stretch of imagination. It

 is a sad situation that 15% of the population gets 50%

 reservation and this alone is the extraordinary aspect which

 marks out the situation in the State requiring affirmative action

 to take in the extraordinary circumstances. Adequacy does not

 mean mere numbers and there is more to it, often invisible and

 unnoticed, which can only be brought to light by unique

 measures of social engineering; as done in the case of the

 singular Caste Survey. It is on a social test based on the details

 collected in the survey, that the legislature formed the opinion,

 to enhance the percentage of reservation even beyond the 50%

 mark to achieve the ultimate aim of totally effacing inequality.

 The collective objective opinion formed by the legislature led to

 the legislation, which is beyond judicial review.
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 33/87 27. The learned Advocate General's arguments were

 impassioned, inspired with deep introspection and laced

 abundantly with rare insights of the social milieu. The Caste

 Survey and the empirical data collected therein eloquently cries

 out for more reservations to the backward including the SCs and

 the STs. He summed up that the State has a responsibility to take

 measures to uplift those who were deprived for long, left to

 abject destitution and thus grossly disadvantaged; the landless,

 the homeless and the jobless, the undernourished, the

 downtrodden and the marginalized, which require drastic steps.

 Such steps should evoke in them a sense of belonging and

 enable them to aspire for better times, better opportunities and

 better facilities, raising the expectation of adequacy; in

 determining which proportionality cannot be wholly and entirely

 ignored. When 10% reservation for the unreserved category is

 considered, it cannot be said that there is breach of the 50% rule

 by 15%. If at all there is breach, it would only be a mere 5%.

 Arguing further on the breach being not an inviolable rule, the

 learned Advocate General pointed out that the reliance placed by

 the petitioners is on the decisions in Indra Sawhney, Janhit

 Abhiyan, and Dr. Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil (all supra). All of

 these, viewed through the constitutional prism and understood in
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 34/87 the ethos of reality; the underlying philosophy of affirmative

 action, according to the learned Advocate General, support the

 present amendment made to the Reservation Act. It is pointed

 out that the petitioners have relied only on paragraphs here and

 there and a reading of the decisions in its entirety, would clearly

 show that breach is possible but has to be substantiated when it

 is challenged before a Court of law. 28. Shri Y.V.Giri, learned Senior Counsel, in support

 of the State action, argues that there is no role for the Preamble

 if there is no ambiguity in the enactment; as has been held in Maharishi Mahesh Yogi Vedic Vishwavidyalaya v. State of

 Madhya Pradesh & Ors. ,(2013) 15 SCC 677. Exclusion or

 inclusion is not a matter coming within the scope of the subject

 writ petitions and there is no mandate that the Backward

 Commission has to be approached in every circumstance where

 an affirmative action is brought out by the State. The Bihar State

 Backward Commission Act, 1993 and the functions of the

 Commission, as delineated therein, were read out along with Paragraph 667 of Indra Sawhney (supra). Reliance was also

 placed on the Caste Survey to assert legislative compulsion and

 no conflict arising with the constitutional provision. Reliance is

 placed on Janhit Abhiyan and Dr. Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 35/87 (both supra) to further urge that proportionate representation is

 one of the relevant factors in determining reservation. 29. In reply, Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan submits

 that the entire approach of the State Government is erroneous;

 linking adequacy and proportion to breach the 50% limit in

 reservations. It is also pointed out that the Caste Survey itself is

 challenged in the Hon'ble Supreme Court and in none of the

 judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the breach of 50%

 rule was approved and the permission was confined to special

 circumstances as has been read out from Paragraph-810 of

 Indra Sawhney (supra), which is not available in the present

 case. Shri Mrigank Mauli refers to Articles 338 and 338A , to

 emphasize the significance of a National Commission. It was

 pointed out from the details of the Caste Survey that there is

 adequate representation of the backward communities. Shri

 Abhinav Shrivastava points out that adequacy is based on social

 backwardness and there is no reference to a far flung or

 backward area which justifies the breach of 50% limit.

 In Our Judgment: - 30. The history of reservations in this country is

 chronicled in the various decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court wherein there was a challenge made to the affirmative
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 36/87 action brought out by the State and the Union Parliament.

 Before we refer to the decisions, we have to first notice the

 provisions in the Constitution, which provides for such

 affirmative action. Article 14 speaks of equality before law and Article 15 prohibits discrimination on grounds of religion, race,

 caste, sex or place of birth. Article 15 as it originally stood did

 not provide for the special provision for advancement of any

 socially and educationally backward class of citizens or for the

 Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes as was later

 introduced by the Constitution (1st Amendment) Act 1951. Article 16 which provided for equality of opportunity in matters

 of public employment, at the inception itself, contained clause

 (4) wherein, it was provided that nothing in this Article shall

 prevent the State from making any provision for the reservation

 of appointments or posts in favour of any backward class of

 citizens, which, in the opinion of the State, is not adequately

 represented in the services under the State. Article 29 provided

 for protection of interest of minorities and clause (1) speaks of

 the right to conserve a distinct language, script or culture.

 Clause (2) provides that no citizen shall be denied admission

 into any educational institution maintained by the State or

 receiving aid out of State funds on grounds only of religion,
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 37/87 race, caste, language or any of them. 31. B. Venkataramana (supra) was a case under Article 16(4) where the reservations in a selection to the post of

 District Munsiffs was challenged; brought in by a government

 order; popularly termed the 'Communal G.O'. Therein specific

 number of posts were reserved for various castes, religions and

 communities. Looking at clause (4) of Article 16 , it was

 specifically held that there was express permission to the State

 to make provisions for reservation of appointments or posts in

 favour of any backward class of citizens; which in the opinion

 of the State is not adequately represented in the services of the

 State. Reservation of posts in favour of any backward class,

 (this term is used in this judgment alternatively for the entire

 category of reserved and also as distinguished from SC & ST;

 which has to be understood from the context in which the term is

 used) could not, therefore, be regarded as unconstitutional. The

 petitioner was a Brahmin and his ineligibility to be considered

 for such reserved posts, it was found, cannot be regarded as one

 arising on the ground of religion, race or caste but by reason of

 the necessity to make reservation for the backward class of

 citizens. However, the ineligibility created by the 'Communal

 G.O' was also by reason of the express reservation made for
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 38/87 categories other than backward class; including Muslims,

 Christians and non-Brahmin Hindus and Brahmins. The

 ineligibility of the petitioner for any of the posts reserved for

 communities other than Harijans and Backward Class Hindus

 could be regarded as founded only on the ground of his being a

 Brahmin. This ineligibility created by the 'Communal G.O'; it

 was held, was not sanctioned by clause (4) of Article 16 and led

 to a clear infringement of the fundamental right guaranteed to

 the petitioner as an individual citizen under Article 16(1) & (2). 32. Champakam Dorairajan (supra); a case under Article 15 , was delivered on the same day and by the very same

 Constitution Bench of 5-Judges who decided B.

 Venkataramana. Therein, the reservations made to Medical &

 Engineering Colleges by the State of Madras was under 33. The learned Judges noticed that while clause (1)

 of Article-29 of the Constitution of India protects language,

 script, culture etc: of a citizen, clause (2) guarantees the

 fundamental right of an individual citizen. The right to get

 admission into an educational institution of the kind mentioned

 in clause (2) is a right which an individual citizen has as a

 citizen and not as a member of any community or class of

 citizens. This right could not be denied to a citizen on grounds

 only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them. The

 contention of the State that the provisions of Article 29 have to

 be read along with the other Articles in the Constitution and

 would be superseded by Article-46; which promotes with special

 care, the educational and the economic interest of the weaker

 sections of the people and in particular of the Scheduled Castes

 and the Scheduled Tribes from social injustice and all forms of

 exploitation, was specifically rejected. 34. It was categorically held that the Directive

 Principles of State Policy which, by Article 37 , are expressly

 made unenforceable by a Court, cannot override the provisions

 found in Part-III. The provisions under Part-III on the other

 hand; notwithstanding other provisions, are expressly made
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 40/87 enforceable by appropriate writs, orders or directions under Article 32. The Chapter of Fundamental Rights was held to be

 sacrosanct and not liable to be abridged by any legislative or

 executive act or order except to the extent provided in the

 appropriate Article in Part-III. Directive Principles of State

 Policy according to the learned Judges have to conform to and

 run as subsidiary to the Chapter of Fundamental Rights. Specific

 reference was made to clause (4) of Article 16; which, it was

 observed, was unnecessary, if the arguments founded on Article-

 46 were sound. It was held that clause (4) was inserted in Article

 16 which insertion coupled with the omission of a like express

 provision in Article 29 was very significant. The distinction in

 so far as Article 16 dealing with public employment and Article

 29 (2) dealing with admissions to educational institutions

 maintained or aided by the State was emphasized; juxtaposed

 with the fact that a provision similar to clause (4) of Article 16 was absent in Article 29(2). It was held that protection of

 backward class of citizens would require appointment of

 members of backward classes in state-services for which power

 has been given to the State to provide for reservation in

 appointments. Such conferment of power was not obviously

 considered necessary in the case of admission into an
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 41/87 educational institution and this was held to be the reason for the

 omission from Article 29 , a clause similar to Clause (4) of

 Article-16. 35. The First Amendment of the Constitution

 introduced clause (4) to Article 15 of the Constitution as a direct

 consequence of the decision in Champakam Dorairajan (supra). The reservation made of a total 68% in the Colleges

 affiliated to the Universities in the State of Mysore was tested

 against Article 15(4) in M.R. Balaji (supra) and held to be bad

 for reason of it being excessive and a fraud on the Constitution.

 Many of the arguments made therein, in support and against the

 challenge, were addressed before us and we refer to them briefly

 so as to put in perspective the dicta coming out of the decision;

 applicable squarely in the instant case. 36. The contention advanced for the petitioners that

 the affirmative action was incompetent unless a Commission

 was appointed under Article 340 and a copy of its report is

 placed before the Parliament; pursuant to which the President

 alone can make the special provision for reservation was

 rejected as misconceived. The Constitution, though

 contemplated the appointment of a Commission, it was only for

 the assistance of the Union and the State Governments, who at
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 42/87 their discretion would implement the recommendations; which

 procedure was also held to be not a condition precedent to an

 action under Article 15(4). Hence the arguments addressed by

 the petitioners herein regarding the absence of a

 recommendation or report from a Commission as contemplated

 under the Constitution, cannot be accepted; to declare bad, the

 impugned reservation. The argument canvassed, of the

 mandatory requirement of a legislation was also negatived on

 the premise that the State under Article 12 includes the

 Legislature and the Government; which in the context of the

 challenge herein is irrelevant as the impugned action is one by a

 legislation itself. 37. M.R. Balaji (supra) considering the scope and

 extent of the expression 'backwardness' under Article 15 (4) ,

 declared that caste cannot be the predominant or sole basis for

 determination of social and educational backwardness, since it

 would be illogical and lead to further perpetuation of an evil

 which had to be wiped out. It was also held to be impracticable

 of application to many groups existing in the Indian society.

 Social backwardness primarily would be a result of poverty;

 which is also aggravated by caste, making both relevant for

 determination of this aspect. Along with these, various factors
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 43/87 like occupation, many of which are perceived as inferior; place

 of residence, often when the location is rural; makes the

 identification of a proper criteria difficult. The intermix of social

 and economic considerations hence require elaborate

 investigation and collection of data, which has to be examined

 in a rational and scientific way. The mode adopted of

 determining educational backwardness, of computing the State

 average of student population and classifying those who fall

 below it as backward and those who are less than half of

 average, to be most backward, was held to be flawed, since it

 eventually included those groups who were slightly above or

 below the average, even in the same category. 38. Examining the extent of the special provision

 under Article 15(4) , the State's contention that it could be

 without limitation was rejected. The Constitution Bench held

 that Article 15(4) is in the nature of an exception and if it is

 capable of completely excluding the rest of the society, then it

 would be extremely unreasonable and would be an infringement

 of the fundamental rights of those citizens constituting the rest

 of society. A total exclusion of qualified and competent students

 from the Universities, without any consideration of merit, on

 grounds only of reservation of entire seats, was held to be
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 44/87 against the national interest. Emphasizing the duty of the State

 to proceed with affirmative action in an objective and rational

 manner; while advocating reasonable and even generous steps in

 advancement of the weaker sections, it was cautioned that the

 State has to keep in mind and not ignore the requirements of the

 community at large. 39. The reservation laid down of 68% was struck

 down and a bench mark of 50% was prescribed; less than which

 was held to be reasonable; with a caveat that how much less

 would depend on the relevant prevailing circumstances. It was

 categorically opined that "what is true in regard to Article 15(4) is equally true in regard to Article 16(4)" (sic) , thus deprecating

 any excessive, unreasonable and extravagant reservation under

 both provisions since it would create wide-spread dissatisfaction

 and materially affect efficiency. 40. Another Constitution Bench by majority in T.

 Devadasan (supra) approved the ratio in M.R.Balaji (supra),

 ' ... that reservation of more than half the vacancies is per se

 destructive of the provisions of Art. 15(1) which is to the effect

 that the State shall not discriminate against any citizen on

 grounds of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of

 them' (sic). It was found that equal protection of laws and
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 45/87 equality before law, as provided in Article 14 means 'equality

 among equals'(sic). It was reiterated that clause (4) of Article 16 is a proviso or an exception to clause (2). The promotions

 assailed, which exceeded the 50% rule of reservation; justified on

 the ground of 'carry forward vacancies', was declared invalid

 relying on the 50% rule propounded in M.R.Balaji. The

 dissenting opinion; to the majority, found the 50% rule in

 M.R.Balaji to be a mere general observation intended to be only

 a workable guide and not an inflexible rule of law and held that Article 16(4) was not an exception to Article 16(1) , but an

 emphatic way of stating the principle inherent in the main

 provision. It was also held that the doctrine of destruction of

 fundamental right depends upon the entire cadre strength and the

 percentage reserved, out of that strength. 41. The dissenting interpretation of Article 16(4) was

 accepted by the majority in N.M. Thomas (supra) and also in Indra Sawhney (supra); larger Benches, respectively of seven

 and nine Judges. It was held that Article 16 does permit

 reasonable classification for ensuring attainment of equality of

 opportunity; the assurance of which is possible, only if unequally

 situated persons are treated unequally and not equally, in certain

 situations. Not doing so, according to the majority judgment in
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 46/87 Indra Sawhney (supra), 'would perpetuate and accentuate

 inequality'. Article 16(1) being a facet of Article 14; implicitly

 permits classification and the minute that is recognized, clause

 (4) becomes an instance of classification inherent in clause (1)

 and the theory of it being an exception becomes untenable. This

 was the only deviation from the dicta in M.R. Balaji (supra). In

 N.M. Thomas two out of the seven judges alone expressed an

 opinion on the 50% rule in M.R.Balaji; that it is more a rule of

 caution and not a hard and fast one to be reduced to a

 mathematical formula. The majority hence affirmed the 50%

 limit on reservations making it the dictum of the seven judge

 bench. 42. Indra Sawhney (supra) considered the question of

 the extent to which reservations can be made and the efficacy of

 the 50% rule as propounded in M.R. Balaji (supra). M.R.Balaji

 was found to have negatived the plea that the reservation as per Article 15(4) is limitless, finding it to be a 'special provision'

 requiring it to be applied within reasonable limits. Devadasan (supra) applied it as declared law in the case arising under Article 16(4) to strike down the carry forward rule. There was

 no clear declaration coming out of N.M. Thomas (supra); two

 learned judges in N.M.Thomas, having termed it a mere rule of
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 47/87 caution while two others passingly referred to it, without

 expressing a positive opinion. This led to the argument that

 N.M. Thomas overruled M.R Balaji. On whether the 50% rule

 stood overruled, a two-judge bench, in K.C Vasanth Kumar v.

 State of Karnataka 1985 Supp SCC 714, differed. N.M

 Thomas, on this point, was argued to be an obiter; especially

 when one of the two judges who expressed a contrary opinion;

 affirmed it in Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karmchari Sangh v.

 Union of India (1981) 1 SCC 246. 43. Indra Sawhney (supra) categorically held that

 '... clause (4) speaks of adequate representation and not

 proportionate representation.' (sic-para 807). One cannot be

 read as the other, and the latter was accepted only in Articles

 330 & 332. It was held so in para 807 to 809, 811, 813 & 814: Together with reservation in favour of Scheduled Castes
 and Scheduled Tribes, it comes to a total of 49.5%. In this
 connection, reference may be had to the Full Bench
 decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in V.
 Narayana Rao v. State of A.P. [AIR 1987 AP 53 : 1987
 Lab IC 152 : (1986) 2 Andh LT 258] , striking down the
 enhancement of reservation from 25% to 44% for OBCs.
 The said enhancement had the effect of taking the total
 reservation under Article 16(4) to 65%. 808. It needs no emphasis to say that the principal
 aim of Articles 14 and 16 is equality and equality of
 opportunity and that clause (4) of Article 16 is but a
 means of achieving the very same objective. Clause (4) is
 a special provision -- though not an exception to clause
 (1). Both the provisions have to be harmonised keeping in
 mind the fact that both are but the re-statements of the
 principle of equality enshrined in Article 14. The
 provision under Article 16(4) -- conceived in the interest
 of certain sections of society -- should be balanced
 against the guarantee of equality enshrined in clause (1)
 of Article 16 which is a guarantee held out to every
 citizen and to the entire society. It is relevant to point out
 that Dr Ambedkar himself contemplated reservation being
 "confined to a minority of seats" (See his speech in
 Constituent Assembly, set out in para 693). No other
 member of the Constituent Assembly suggested otherwise.
 It is, thus, clear that reservation of a majority of seats
 was never envisaged by the Founding Fathers. Nor are
 we satisfied that the present context requires us to depart
 from that concept. 809. From the above discussion, the irresistible
 conclusion that follows is that the reservations
 contemplated in clause (4) of Article 16 should not
 exceed 50%. xxx xxx xxx 811. In this connection it is well to remember that
 the reservations under Article 16(4) do not operate like a
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 49/87 communal reservation. It may well happen that some
 members belonging to, say, Scheduled Castes get selected
 in the open competition field on the basis of their own
 merit; they will not be counted against the quota reserved
 for Scheduled Castes; they will be treated as open
 competition candidates. xxx xxx xxx 813. It is, however, made clear that the rule of 50%
 shall be applicable only to reservations proper; they shall
 not be -- indeed cannot be -- applicable to exemptions,
 concessions or relaxations, if any, provided to 'Backward
 Class of Citizens' under Article 16(4). 814. The next aspect of this question is whether a
 year should be taken as the unit or the total strength of
 the cadre, for the purpose of applying the 50% rule.
 Balaji [1963 Supp 1 SCR 439 : AIR 1963 SC 649] does
 not deal with this aspect but Devadasan [T. Devadasan v.
 Union of India , (1964) 4 SCR 680 : AIR 1964 SC 179 : On the other hand is the approach adopted by Ray,
 CJ in Thomas [(1976) 2 SCC 310, 380 : 1976 SCC (L&S)
 227 : (1976) 1 SCR 906] . While not disputing the
 correctness of the 50% rule he seems to apply it to the
 entire service as such. In our opinion, the approach
 adopted by Ray, CJ would not be consistent with Article 16. True it is that the backward classes, who are victims
 of historical social injustice, which has not ceased fully
 as yet, are not properly represented in the services under
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 50/87 the State but it may not be possible to redress this
 imbalance in one go i.e., in a year or two. The position
 can be better explained by taking an illustration. Take a
 unit/service/cadre comprising 1000 posts. The reservation
 in favour of Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and
 Other Backward Classes is 50% which means that out of
 the 1000 posts 500 must be held by the members of these
 classes i.e., 270 by Other Backward Classes, 150 by
 Scheduled Castes and 80 by Scheduled Tribes. At a given
 point of time, let us say, the number of members of OBCs
 in the unit/service/category is only 50, a short fall of 220.
 Similarly, the number of members of Scheduled Castes
 and Scheduled Tribes is only 20 and 5 respectively,
 shortfall of 130 and 75. If the entire service/cadre is taken
 as a unit and the backlog is sought to be made up, then
 the open competition channel has to be choked altogether
 for a number of years until the number of members of all
 backward classes reaches 500 i.e., till the quota meant for
 each of them is filled up. This may take quite a number of
 years because the number vacancies arising each year
 are not many. Meanwhile, the members of open
 competition category would become age barred and
 ineligible. Equality of opportunity in their case would
 become a mere mirage. It must be remembered that the
 equality of opportunity guaranteed by clause (1) is to
 each individual citizen of the country while clause (4)
 contemplates special provision being made in favour of
 socially disadvantaged classes. Both must be balanced
 against each other. Neither should be allowed to eclipse
 the other. For the above reason, we hold that for the
 purpose of applying the rule of 50% a year should be
 taken as the unit and not the entire strength of the cadre,
 service or the unit, as the case may be. [underlining by us for emphasis] 44. Indra Sawhney a nine-judge Bench thus gave

 further judicial imprimatur to the 50% rule. The nine-judge

 Bench also held Devadasan to be correctly decided and declared

 that a carry forward rule, in whatever manner it is operated,
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 51/87 shall also not result in breach of the 50% rule. This alone; the

 50% rule in carry forward vacancies, was rendered inapplicable

 by the constitutional amendment, incorporating clause (4-B) in Article 16. It dealt with only the carry forward rule, applicable

 both in direct recruitment and promotions but left untouched the

 50% rule otherwise; as held in R.K Sabharwal v. State of

 Punjab (1995) 2 SCC 745. Only when there is a carry forward

 could the reservation exceed 50%; that too the limit being

 exceeded only by reason of the carry forward of the unfilled

 vacancies in the previous years, in which previous years again

 the reservation was applied following that rule. This was another

 facet of equality; fostering enough opportunities to those

 categories who would not have had enough qualified candidates

 amongst themselves for reason only of their backwardness. 45. M. Nagaraj v. Union of India reported in

 (2006) 8 SCC 212 was concerned with the 77th Amendment Act,

 1995 inserting Article 16(4-A) enabling accelerated seniority to

 the roster point promotees and the Constitution (85 th Amendment) Act, 2001 , providing accelerated promotion with

 consequential seniority. Both these were challenged as

 unconstitutional and violative of the basic structure of the

 Constitution. Relying on the majority opinion in Minerva Mills
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 52/87 v. Union of India reported in 1983 SCC 625; the observation

 that Articles 14 and 19 are not fanciful rights and are elementary

 rights for functioning of democracy, the principle emerging was

 found to be that equality is the essence of democracy and

 accordingly a basic feature of the Constitution. Reservation, as

 is used in Article 16(4); which word was (and still is) absent in Article 15(4) was considered in the context of Article 335 of the

 Constitution providing relaxation of the standards of evaluation.

 Reservation as a subject of Article 16(4) was held to be different

 from the word 'reservation' as a general concept. The concept of

 equality of opportunity in public employment concerns an

 individual; both belonging to the general category or the

 backward classes and the conflicting claims that arise under Article 16(1) has to be balanced with the preferential treatment

 given to a backward class under Article 16(4). The reasonable

 balance, thus must be struck between claims of backward

 classes and claims of other employees as well as the requirement

 of efficiency of administration. 46. In the matter of application of the basic

 structure, the twin test, namely the width test and the test of

 identity had to be satisfied. In applying the width test, the

 boundaries were held to be (i) the ceiling limit of 50%
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 53/87 (quantitative limitation); (ii) principle of creamy layer

 (qualitative exclusion); (iii) the compelling reasons of backward

 class & inadequacy of representation; and (iv) the overall

 administrative efficiency; which principles are not to be

 obliterated or sacrificed completely at the altar of reparations.

 On applying the test of identity, it was held that there is no

 alteration in the existing structure of the equality code

 comprising of Articles 14 , 15 & 16. The limitations of equity

 justice and efficiency survive the impugned amendments; which

 incorporated clause(4-A) & (4-B) in Article 16. The controversy

 as to whether the Article 16(4) was an exception to Article 16(1) was settled in Indra Sawhney which held that both Article 16(1) and (4) are re-statement of the principles of equality under Article 14; the former being individual specific and the later

 enabling and permitting a positive discrimination in favour of a

 class which is characterized by its 'backwardness' and

 'inadequacy of representation'. Backwardness had to be based

 on the objective factors while inadequacy has to factually exist. 47. In fact, M. Nagaraj in paragraph 49 held so: - However, whether reservation in a given case is desirable or
 not, as a policy, is not for us to decide as long as the
 parameters mentioned in Articles 16(4) and 16(4-A) are
 maintained. As stated above, equity, justice and merit (Article 335)/efficiency are variables which can only be identified
 and measured by the State. Therefore, in each case, a
 contextual case has to be made out depending upon different
 circumstances which may exist State wise. 48. Referring to M. R. Balaji, N. M. Thomas and

 Indra Sawhney (all supra), it was held that the 9 Judge Bench

 in Indra Sawhney held that Article 16(4) speaks of adequate

 representation and not proportionate representation, although

 proportion of population of the backward classes to the total

 population would certainly be relevant. Balancing equality of

 opportunity available under Article 16(1) for each individual

 citizen, with the special provision under Article 16(4) for the

 socially disadvantaged classes, the majority opinion of the 50%

 rule to be applied to each year in Indra Sawhney was re-

 affirmed finding that equality clause and the special provision

 should be balanced and neither allowed to eclipse the other. 49. Article 16(4-A) was held to be inspired by the

 observations in Indra Sawhney that in order to avoid lumping of

 OBCs, SCs and STs which would enable the OBCs to take away

 all the vacancies leaving STs and SCs high and dry. The State
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 55/87 concerned was entitled to categorize and sub-classify SCs/STs

 on the one hand, vis-a-vis OBCs on the other. While Indra

 Sawhney protected equality with a rule of 50%, balancing the

 rights of the general category vis-a-vis the rights of backward

 class enbloc Article 16(4-A) ensured that not only OBCs but

 also SCs and STs would be enabled the preferential treatment

 available under Article 16(4). The sub-classification in favour of

 SCs and STs within the egalitarian equality enabled by that

 clause was held to be constitutionally valid. 50. On the 50% limit, M. Nagaraj held so in

 paragraph 122, which is extracted below: - 51. Union of India v. Rakesh Kumar & Others reported in ( 2010) 4 SCC 50 and K Krishna Murthy v. Union

 of India reported in (2010) 7 SCC 202 were concerned with the

 reservations in local self-government institutions & bodies. Both

 these decisions held that barriers to political participation is not

 of the same character; as barriers that limit access to education

 and employment, thus attempting a comparison between the
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 56/87 constitutional provisions at Article 243-D and 243-T on the one

 hand and Article 15(4) and 16(4) on the other. Rakesh Kumar (supra) held Article 243-D to be a distinct and independent

 constitution basis for reservation in Panchayati Raj Institutions,

 which cannot be readily compared with affirmative action

 measures enabled by Article 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution.

 It was found that Indra Sawhney though declared an upper limit

 of 50% for reservations in public employment, all the same the

 said decision did recognize the need for exceptional treatment in

 special circumstances. The said circumstances were laid down

 in paragraph 810 of Indra Sawhney, which was emphasized by

 the State before us too; which we will refer to a little later. 52. Continuing the narration from Rakesh Kumar;

 it was held that under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) , the reservation

 of seats in favour of socially and educationally backward classes

 (SEBC, being the all-inclusive deprived classes) is

 '... ordinarily done on the basis of proportionate representation

 and an upper ceiling of 50% allows for considerable flexibility

 in distributing the benefits of higher education and public

 employment among a wide range of intended beneficiaries such

 as ...' (sic-para-45) the SC, ST, women and OBC. An upper

 ceiling limit of 50% allows for considerable flexibility in
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 57/87 distributing the benefits of higher education and public

 employment among a wide range of extended beneficiaries only

 enables proportionate aspects to be considered within the limit

 of 50%. This was distinguished from the reservations in

 Panchayats, in scheduled areas pointing out the inherent

 distinction, between, the nature of benefits that accrue from

 access to education and employment, on the one hand, and

 political participation, on the other. "While access to higher

 education and public employment increases the likelihood of

 gradual socio-economic empowerment of the individual

 beneficiaries; involvement in local self-government is intended

 as a more immediate measure of protection for the individual as

 well as the community he or she belongs to." (sic para 45). The

 reservation provided for half of the citizens in Panchayats

 located in scheduled areas, in favour of SCs was held to be a

 measure of compensatory discrimination which goes beyond the

 ordinary standards of adequate representation; which sanctions

 proportionate representation and even goes beyond that. 53. The concept of adequate representation comes

 into play when it is found that a particular community is under-

 represented in a certain domain and a specific threshold is

 provided in order to ensure that a beneficiary group is enabled to
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 58/87 be adequately represented with the passage of time. It was held

 that in instances where the Constitution does not specify the

 quantum of reservations, the idea of proportionate reservation is

 the rule of thumb. 54. Immediately, we have to notice that while Article 243-D and 243-T refers to proportionate representation, Article 16(4) specifically speaks of adequate representation in

 the services under the State. We will have to notice that though Article 15(4) does not specify adequacy, the provision is akin to

 that in clause (4) of Article 16. K Krishna Murthy (supra) also

 held that the principles evolved for conferring reservation

 benefits under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) cannot be mechanically

 applied in the context of reservation enabled by Article 243-D and 243-T. 55. Jarnail Singh & Others v. Lachhmi Narain

 Gupta reported in (2018) 10 SCC 396 refused to refer M

 Nagaraj (supra) to a larger bench. But the conclusion in M.

 Nagaraj that the State has to collect quantifiable data showing

 backwardness of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe was

 held to be contrary to the nine-Judge Bench in Indra Sawhney.

 The five judge Bench in Jarnail Singh while refusing to refer

 for reconsideration the decision in M.Nagaraj quoted from the
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 59/87 decision the following paragraphs, with approval: However, if they wish to exercise their discretion and
 make such provision, the State has to collect
 quantifiable data showing backwardness of the class
 and inadequacy of representation of that class in
 public employment in addition to compliance with Article 335. It is made clear that even if the State has
 compelling reasons, as stated above, the State will
 have to see that its reservation provision does not
 lead to excessiveness so as to breach the ceiling limit
 of 50% or obliterate the creamy layer or extend the
 reservation indefinitely. 124. Subject to the above, we uphold the
 constitutional validity of the Constitution (Seventy-
 seventh Amendment) Act, 1995; the Constitution
 (Eighty-first Amendment) Act, 2000 ; the Constitution
 (Eighty-second Amendment) Act, 2000 and the Constitution (Eighty-fifth Amendment) Act, 2001 ."

 [underlining by us for emphasis]
 [paragraph 122 in the above extract already quoted in para 50 above] 56. Chebrolu Leela Prasad Rao (supra) was

 concerned with an office memorandum issued by the State of

 Andhra Pradesh providing 100% reservation to the Scheduled

 Tribe candidates for the post of teachers in the schools of

 scheduled areas within the State. Inter alia considering the
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 61/87 question whether 100% reservation is permissible under the

 Constitution, in paragraph 109, Indra Sawhney (supra) and

 paragraph 807 was referred, to hold that reservation under Article 16(4) is not a proportionate representation but an

 adequate one. The government order providing for 100%

 reservation was held to be not permissible under the

 Constitution; the outer limit being 50% as specified in Indra

 Sawhney. 57. Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil (supra) again

 considering the extent to which reservations are permissible,

 reiterated and reaffirmed the maximum upper limit of 50% as laid down in Indra Sawhney and held it to be binding under Article 141 , which had to be implemented. A reference sought to

 a larger bench was declined by the five-Judge Bench. The

 Commission, whose report was subject matter of the

 consideration was found to have completely misread the ratio of

 a number of Constitution Bench decisions, when it took the

 view that, the ceiling of 50% can be breached merely on the

 basis of quantifiable data. We specifically extract paragraph 10

 of the aforesaid decision: - However, there is unanimity in the conclusion by all seven
 Judges that an outer limit for reservation should be 50%.
 Undoubtedly, the other two Judges, Ratnavel Pandian
 and P.B. Sawant, JJ. indicated that there is no general
 rule of 50% limit on reservation. In these circumstances,
 given the general common agreement about the existence
 of an outer limit i.e. 50%, the petitioner's argument about
 the incoherence or uncertainty about the existence of the
 rule or that there were contrary observations with respect
 to absence of any ceiling limit in other judgments (the
 dissenting judgments of K. Subba Rao, in T. Devadasan v.
 Union of India [T. Devadasan v. Union of India, (1964) 4
 SCR 680 : AIR 1964 SC 179] , the judgments of S.M.
 Fazal Ali and Krishna Iyer, JJ. in State of Kerala v. N.M.
 Thomas [State of Kerala v. N.M. Thomas, (1976) 2 SCC
 310 : 1976 SCC (L&S) 227] and the judgment of
 Chinnappa Reddy, J. in K.C. Vasanth Kumar v. State of
 Karnataka [K.C. Vasanth Kumar v. State of Karnataka,
 1985 Supp SCC 714 : 1985 Supp (1) SCR 352] ) is not an
 argument compelling a review or reconsideration of Indra Sawhney [Indra Sawhney v. Union of India , 1992
 Supp (3) SCC 217 : 1992 SCC (L&S) Supp 1] rule. 58. It has been argued by the learned Advocate

 General, that the issue of whether the Marathas can be included

 or not is not relevant to the instant case. Suffice it to notice that

 the reservation of 12% and 30% conferred on the Maratha

 community in addition to the 50% social reservation was held to
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 63/87 be not covered by any exceptional circumstances, as

 contemplated by the Constitution Bench in Indra Sawhney's

 case; which was a unanimous declaration of the 5 Judge Bench. 59. Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil (supra) also held that

 Indra Sawhney is equally applicable to Article 15 (4) and we

 extract hereunder paragraphs 13 & 14:- 14. The tenor of all the judgments shows the anxiety of
 this Court to decisively rule on the subject of reservations
 under the Constitution -- in regard to backward classes
 and socially and educationally backward classes. This is
 also evident from the history of Article 15(4) which was
 noticed and the phraseology adopted (socially and
 educationally backward classes) which was held to be
 wider than "backward classes" though the later
 expression pointed to social backwardness. Such
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 64/87 conclusions cannot be brushed aside by sweeping
 submission pointing to the context of the adjudication
 in Indra Sawhney [Indra Sawhney v. Union of India , 1992
 Supp (3) SCC 217 : 1992 SCC (L&S) Supp 1] . 60. The decisions we have dealt with as referred at

 the Bar, are consistent in upholding the principle propounded by M.R. Balaji (supra) that reservations which is a special

 provision for the advancement of the weaker sections of society,

 would require the State, when making such affirmative action,

 to approach its task objectively and in a rational manner. The

 special provision in Article 15(4) which was found to be akin to

 that in Article 16(4) should be within reasonable limits and

 should be less than 50% was consistently upheld and affirmed.

 The only departure from the principles enunciated in M. R.

 Balaji has been insofar as finding Article 16(4) to be not an

 exception; but one in affirmation of the equality clause under Article 16(1). This does not digress from the rule that

 reservation, unless it is with respect to carry-forward vacancies,

 has to be confined to 50% which has to be based on adequate

 representation; proportionate representation being applicable

 only insofar as the reservation percentage applicable to the

 various groups coming within the backward classes, i.e. OBCs,

 MBCs, SCs and STs. It is with this principle in mind; especially
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 65/87 the emphasis on the concept of adequate representation being

 the relevant consideration, insofar as clause (4) under both Article 15 and 16 are concerned, we look at the facts as pointed

 out from the caste survey; a copy of which has been placed

 before us. 61. The details, as seen from the caste survey

 pointed out by the learned Advocate General is more insofar as

 the proportionate ratio of the backward classes to the total

 population of the State. The benefits that have accrued to the

 backward castes, looking at the figures, in the perspective of

 proportionality, we cannot but say, are meager and it is far from

 the goal of egalitarian society. We have to emphasize that in the

 present case, we are not concerned with the various schemes and

 benefits which would be conferred on the backward classes so

 as to achieve the goal of equality, both socially and

 economically. We are, in the present case, only concerned with

 the enhancement of reservation beyond the 50% limit, invoking

 the power under clause (4) of both Article 15 and 16; in

 admissions to educational institutions and appointments to

 public employment. 62. Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil (supra) referred to

 M.R. Balaji in which it was held that "... Courts often consider
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 66/87 the substance of the matter which has to be examined and not its

 form, and in ascertaining the substance of the matter, the

 appearance or the cloak, or the veil of the executive action is

 carefully scrutinised ..." (sic-para 502). Barium Chemicals Ltd

 was relied on to find that though the formation of opinion is

 subjective, the existence of the circumstances relevant to the

 inference as the sine qua non for action must be demonstrable.

 Holding that the opinion formed with respect to grant of

 reservation is not beyond judicial scrutiny altogether, one of the

 parameters of scrutiny of a Commission's report was stated to be

 whether on the basis of the data and materials available; the

 conclusions arrived at are justified. 63. We would now look at the Caste Survey report

 relied on by the State to project inadequate representation of the

 various backward castes and the general category people, for

 which we extract the following columns from the Caste Survey: - 64. Only 1.57% of the total population is employed

 under the Government and when we look at the proportion of

 the employees in each of the categories, as compared to the total

 population of each such category, definitely the open category

 has an edge with 3.19%. However, when we compare the ratio

 of representation of the backward classes in government

 employment, which has to be computed on the total number of

 government employees, we find the backward classes to be

 adequately represented. The Other Backward Classes have a

 presence of 6,21,481 out of a total of 20,49,370 government

 employees; which makes their representation at 30.32%. Insofar

 as the extremely backward community, the percentage of

 representation is 22.53%, the SCs 14.19% and STs 1.47%. The

 backward classes together occupy 14,04,374 posts out of a total

 20,49,370 government employees which is a whooping 68.52%

 of the total employees, which leaves the un-reserved category

 with 31.48% of the total posts in government employment. We

 perfectly realize that the percentage of the backward

 communities in government employment, is not sourced solely

 through appointments by virtue of reservation. There definitely

 would be appointments made from meritorious candidates. Be

 that as it may, the fact remains that backward communities are
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 68/87 adequately represented in public employment, by virtue of

 reservation and also merit; which is an indication of one or other

 caste or community having reaped the benefits of reservation

 and the various beneficial welfare schemes implemented by the

 State; in achieving an element of social capital. There is no

 requirement for an enhancement of reservations, as adequate

 representation now exists and there is no valid ground for breach

 of 50% rule; which in any way is not permissible. 65. In fact, the State should introspect on the

 reservation percentage within the 50% limit as conceded to the

 various categories which could be on the basis of proportionate

 representation within the reservation categories; which is also to

 say that the 'creamy layer' should be excluded. We say that as a

 mere observation and not a positive direction, but, however,

 cannot find a way to uphold the reservation percentage beyond

 the 50% limit, as has been brought in by the State. In revisiting

 the percentage of reservation, the State should look into and

 objectively analyze as to which of the castes or communities

 within the OBC & EBC have more representation and which of

 them are more likely to be appointed on merit. This would give

 an indication of which of the casts or communities have in the

 past years reaped the benefits of the affirmative action and the
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 69/87 beneficial schemes implemented for the upliftment of the poor

 and the marginalized. This inevitably takes us to the inference

 that exclusion and inclusion of castes or communities on the

 basis of the development or the lack of it, in the past years, is an

 inextricably linked relevant consideration while enhancing the

 reservation percentage. But still the law is clear that even that

 would not permit breach or overreach of the 50% limit. 66. The following extract is made from the

 category wise educational data, also found in the Caste Survey

 report specifically pointed out by the learned Advocate General.
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 70/87 The above table only indicates the student population in each of

 the categories; general and backward and the percentage of

 students studying in the various stages from primary to

 graduation (professional and otherwise) as also post-graduation,

 Doctorate/CA and others. The summary of educational data

 shows 100% as distributed between the various stages of

 education which only indicates the number of students carrying

 on studies in the various stages. We cannot find a large disparity

 among the various categories and we cannot discern either a

 case of proportionate representation or an adequate

 representation from the above details. 67. In this context, specific reference is to be made

 to paragraph 810 from Indra Sawhney which was emphasized

 by the learned Advocate General, as extracted hereinbelow: - 68. K Krishna Murthy (supra) after extracting

 paragraph 810 held so in paragraph 66 and 67: - Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 72/87 69. The exception provided under paragraph 810 is

 with respect to far flung and remote areas. The inhabitants of

 such areas, who remain out of the mainstream of national life

 and the conditions peculiar and characteristic to them, could

 lead to different treatment being meted out to them, even

 justifying a breach of the 50% rule. We also look at the specific

 areas; the North-East, where such breach was permitted, as

 noticed in K Krishna Murthy which falls under the exception

 provided in paragraph 810 of Indra Sawhney. We do not find

 ourselves persuaded to hold the situation in the State of Bihar,

 especially looking at the Caste Survey, to be of such extenuating

 nature for reason of it being far flung and away from the

 mainstream of national life. The Caste Survey, on the contrary,

 definitely paints a different picture from what was argued,

 insofar as the adequate representation in public employment.

 The State of Bihar is neither a far flung or remote area nor is it

 out of the mainstream of national life making an overbreadth of

 the 50% limit an imperative measure. 70. Examining the Second Backward Classes

 Commission (Mandal Commission); Indra Sawhney (supra)

 specifically referred to the socio-educational field survey and

 criteria of backwardness, in paragraph 667. We cannot but
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 73/87 express a reservation to the submission of the learned Advocate

 General that in the present case we are not concerned with the

 inclusion or exclusion of a caste or community and the criteria

 of backwardness would not be a relevant consideration. Even in

 the case of enhancement, we found an objective analysis should

 take in, the relevant aspects for a better understanding of the

 change in social milieu, aided actively by the long years of

 measures and schemes for the upliftment of the deprived, the

 marginalized and the downtrodden. 71. We refer to paragraph 667 from Indra

 Sawhney (supra) also to emphasize the manner in which a

 methodology was evolved for collection of data and scientific

 analysis of the same. We extract paragraph 667: - In every district, two villages and one urban block was
 selected and in each of these villages and urban blocks, every
 single household was surveyed. The entire data collected was
 tabulated with the aid of National Informatic Centre of
 Electronics Commission of India. The Technical Committee
 constituted a Sub-Committee of Experts to help the
 Commission prepare "Indicators of Backwardness" for
 analysing the data contained in the computerised tables. In
 para 11.23 (page 52) the Commission sets out the eleven
 Indicators/Criteria evolved by it for determining social and
 educational backwardness. Paras 11.23, 11.24 and 11.25 are
 relevant and may be set out in full: 72. We find no such analysis having been made of

 the data collected in the Caste Survey. True, a massive exercise

 of a survey was conducted by the Government, of the entire

 population of the State and the data collated in a report. It was

 the contention of the petitioners that there was no analysis of

 such data and merely based on the lack of proportionate

 representation in government employment and educational
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 75/87 institutions, the percentage of reservation was enhanced. There

 was no scientific analysis conducted nor was any expert

 appointed to make analysis of the data collected. An expert's

 views or a reference to a legally constituted Commission, we

 have held, is not essential in every such exercise. What worries

 us is the fact of no such exercise or analysis having been done

 by the Government or the Legislature in bringing about the

 Amendment Acts. After the collection of data, there was a frog

 leap into the amendment enhancing the reservations beyond

 50%, which we found was again on proportionate representation

 in the services of the State and educational institutions, clearly

 not permissible under Articles 15(4) & 16(4). 73. The different judgments of the learned Judges

 in Indra Sawhney (supra) specifically emphasized the words

 adequate as found in Article 16(4). Paragraph 422 of one

 judgment which found that there was no general rule of a 50%

 limit held so: - Secondly, and this follows from the first, even that
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 76/87 backward class of citizens would cease to be the
 beneficiary of the reservation policy, the moment the State
 comes to the conclusion that it is adequately represented in
 the services. 74. We also extract the answer to Question 4 in

 that very same judgment from paragraph 552: Question 4: 75. In paragraph 629 of a dissenting opinion in Indra Sawhney (supra) exclusion of creamy layer was found to

 be a social purpose. It was also found that income apart,

 provision should be made that wards of those backward classes,

 who have achieved a particular status in the society either

 political, social or economic or their parents are in higher

 services, then, such individuals should be precluded to avoid
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 77/87 monopolization of the services reserved for the backward

 classes by a few. This again projects a need for examination of

 the relative conditions and status of individuals in each of the

 castes which have been given reservation under the Reservation

 Act, the percentage of which was enhanced; in this case

 mechanically. The only consideration that weighed with the

 legislature was that the backward classes constitute the major

 part of the population and that their representation in the various

 services and educational institutions are lesser in proportion than

 the unreserved category of government employees bear with

 their total population. Even when enhancement of reservation is

 considered, it is imperative that the status of the people at large

 in a caste and the economic and social status they achieved

 based on the reservations & beneficial schemes, should be

 considered. A particular caste which had developed considerably

 or even marginally would not need an enhancement while

 another caste which had not developed marginally or not at all,

 would require a better percentage of reservation. Otherwise

 within the backward caste and most backward caste there would

 be situations in which one or more of the castes which had

 developed better than the others would continue to appropriate

 the benefits because of the social and financial capital they had
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 78/87 achieved over the years. 76. In this context, we refer to paragraph 693 of

 Indra Sawhney and the words of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar quoted

 therein: - [underlining by us for emphasis] 77. Reference was made to the formula adopted by
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 80/87 the drafting committee to reconcile the different points of view

 and produce a formula that that shall ensure equality of

 opportunity, but enabling reservations in favor of certain

 communities who had not so far participated in the

 administration. Merit, hence, cannot be sacrificed completely

 but there should also be participation ensured of groups of

 people who were long deprived any role in the administration.

 The emphasis was on reconciling the need for efficiency in

 administration while enabling reparations by way of affirmative

 action. 78. In explaining the content of the word

 'backward', Shri K. M. Munshi's words were extracted in

 paragraph 692 of Indra Sawhney (supra) which again

 emphasized the need to ensure efficiency in the services of the

 State while providing the backward communities so far deprived

 to have a better status and an opportunity to serve the country. We extract from paragraph 692 of Indra Sawhney (supra): - 79. It is to break the stranglehold hold of a few at

 the expense and to the detriment of the many, that reservation to

 backward classes was envisaged. But merit cannot be

 completely effaced and sacrificed at the altar of reparations.

 This was the principle on which the 50% limit was laid down for

 reservations. Though, a reference order, we deem it appropriate

 to refer to paragraph 16 from Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil v. State

 of Maharashtra , (2021) 2 SCC 785, which is extracted

 hereinbelow: - Implementation of the Act for admissions in
 educational institutions and appointments to public
 posts during the pendency of these appeals will cause
 irreparable loss to the candidates belonging to the
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 82/87 open category. It will be difficult to cancel the
 admissions made in the educational institutions and
 appointments made to the public posts by implementing
 the reservations as per the Act. 80. Janhit Abhiaan (supra) found economic

 disabilities and economic backwardness to be valid criteria for

 reservation or compensatory discrimination. The framers of the

 Constitution, according to the majority judgment, laid stress on

 the principle of economic democracy, complimenting the

 political democracy and contemplating reservation to deal with

 the deprivations arising out of economic disadvantages, which

 has the sanction of our Constitution and our jurisprudence. On

 the issue relevant to the instant case, which is breach of 50%

 ceiling on reservation, it was held so in paragraph 156-158,

 which are extracted hereinbelow:- 81. The cap of 50% was hence reiterated to be a

 inviolable rule within the bracket of categories who are termed

 backward class. The paragraph extracted from Dr. Jaishri

 Laxmanrao Patil (supra) hereinabove was specifically extracted

 with approval. We also notice paragraph 171-173 which are

 extracted hereinbelow:- 82. The rule of 50% limit in reservation, thus,

 applies to the Backward Classes, Scheduled Caste and

 Scheduled Tribes, which is equally applicable under Article

 15(4) and Article 16(4) and in the present case, we see no

 extenuating circumstance enabling the State to breach the rule,

 as found in paragraph 810 of Indra Sawhney. Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 85/87 83. Having dealt with the various decisions relied

 on at the Bar, we have to notice that there is no requirement that

 a Commission should be appointed or reference made to the

 already constituted Commission at the National or State level

 for the purpose of considering reservations, or its percentage; as

 held in M.R Balaji (supra). But it has to be emphasized that

 even as early as in M.R Balaji, on ascertaining the

 backwardness, it spoke of the relevance of various factors and

 the intermix of aspects like poverty, caste, occupation, location

 of residence etc; which reflects the social and economic

 situation, requiring an elaborate investigation by collection of

 data and in-depth analysis in a rational and scientific manner.

 We have already found that such an analysis was absent insofar

 as the enhancement of the quota for reservations. Article 15(4) and Article 16(4) were equated in M.R Balaji (supra) and Devadasan (supra) applied 50% limit even to Article 15(4). Paragraph 814 of Indra Sawhney (supra) approved Devadasan (supra) to the extent of its majority decision regarding the limit

 of 50% being applied to Article 15(4). N.M.Thomas (supra) was

 differed from and it was held that to apply the 50%, the year has

 to be taken as a unit and not the service as a whole. There can be

 no filling up of the deficiency of service in one single year was
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 86/87 the authoritative pronouncement. 84. That, adequate representation is the core of both Articles 15(4) & 16 (4); was reiterated and the rule of 50% limit

 in reservations was reaffirmed by the various decisions. That,

 the exception provided, to exceed the 50% limit, was confined

 and restricted to extenuating circumstances and

 characteristically inherent aspects akin to far flung areas thus

 being kept away from the mainstream of National life, is

 undisputed. That, these conditions do not exist and was not

 demonstrated in the instant case is abundantly clear. That, the

 State attempted no in-depth study or analysis before providing

 for enhancement of the reservation percentage is established

 from the records. That, the State proceeded on the mere

 proportion of population of different categories as against their

 numerical representation in government services and

 educational institutions is the admitted position and is the

 pivotal argument of the State. That, this argument works against

 the core principles of Articles 15(4) & 16(4) is a given fact. In

 our judgment hence, the enhancement of reservations beyond

 the 50% limit is bad in law based on the principles of equality

 emanating from the Constitution, as laid down by the wealth of

 precedents discussed in this judgment; binding on us and the
 Patna High Court CWJC No.16760 of 2023 dt.20-06-2024 87/87 State equally. We, hence, set aside the Bihar Reservation of

 Vacancies in Posts and Services (for Scheduled Caste,

 Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes) Amendment

 Act, 2023 and the Bihar Reservation (in Admission to

 Educational Institutions) Amendment Act, 2023 as ultra vires

 the Constitution and violative of the equality clause under Articles 14 , 15 and 16. The Writ Petitions are allowed leaving

 the parties to suffer their respective costs. (K. Vinod Chandran, CJ)

 Harish Kumar, J: