1. This petition has been preferred under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India, seeking the following relief (s) :- 2. The grievance of the petitioner is that he is having a bank account with
 respondent No.1 Kotak Mahindra Bank. He has been investing in the share market
 in which he made some transaction in the sum of Rs.1,50,000/-. His account has

 been frozen at the instance of respondent No.2 Station House Officer IV Town PS,
 Vishakhapatnam, District Vishakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh) as has been
 informed to him by the respondent No.1. The fact that account of the petitioner
 has been frozen can also be demonstrated by his statement of account in which it
 has been so stated. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that as per the
 information received, there has been some transactions by certain persons which Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHAILESH MAHADEV SUKHDEVE Signing time: 3/7/2025 6:31:20 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:6031

 2 WP-8028-2025
 have been found to be illegal by respondents No.2 and alleging deposit of amount
 in the account of petitioner, his account has been frozen. 4. Counsel has also drawn the attention of this Court to an order passed in
 an identical case, in the case of Gautam Bhandari and Others Vs. State Bank of
 India and Others W.P. No.30822/2024 dated 25.10.2024 wherein also this Court
 had granted relief to the petitioner that the amount which is disputed may be kept
 in a fixed deposit by the bank, with further direction that the competent Judicial
 Magistrate shall proceed in accordance with law under Section 102 of Cr.P.C. It is
 submitted that the petitioner also agrees that the amount relating to questionable
 transaction may be kept in a fixed deposit, and the petitioner may be allowed to
 operate his account. 5. Heard. On due consideration of submissions and on perusal of the

 documents filed on record, this Court finds the prayer reasonable and innocuous,
 as no prejudice would be caused either to the Bank or to respondent No.2 if the
 disputed amount is kept in fixed deposits, as has been ordered by this Court in the
 case of Gautam Bhandari (Supra). Thus maintaining parity, this Court is inclined
 to allow the present petition as well. 6. So far as the order passed by this Court in the case of Gautam Bhandari
 (Supra) is concerned, the same reads as under :- 2. The grievance of the petitioners is that their accounts have been freezed on account of some fraudulent
 activity. 3. Counsel for the petitioners has submitted that the petitioners are medical students, studying in fourth
 semester in Aurobindo College, Indore and were also trading in Crypto currency, in which the aforesaid
 transactions were made in their accounts. It is submitted that the petitioners may be allowed to operate
 their accounts, as the disputed entries are already on hold. 4. Counsel for the respondent No.1/ SBI has submitted that no case for interference is made out,
 however, it is not denied that on earlier occasions, this Court had passed various orders and one such
 order was passed in the case of Malcolm Murayis and Others Vs. State Bank of India and Others, W.P.
 No.1100/2024 dated 26.04.2024. 5. Heard. On due consideration of submissions and on perusal of the documents filed on record, it is
 found that so far as the order passed in the case of Malcolm Murayis (Supra) is concerned, it has been
 observed as under :- NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:6031

 4 WP-8028-2025
 (Emphasis Supplied) 6. On due consideration of the reliefs sought by the petitioners, as also
 the aforesaid order, this Court is inclined to dispose of this petition with a
 direction to the respondents/Bank to keep the disputed amount as informed to
 them by various cybercrime agencies, in fixed deposits, which shall be allowed
 to be liquidated only after the orders are passed by the competent Judicial
 Magistrate within three months' time as it is expected from the cybercrime
 police to proceed in accordance with law under Section 102 of Cr.P.C., or any
 other law on which they are relying upon, failing which the amount so kept in
 FDs may also be allowed to be withdrawn by the petitioners under intimation to
 the cybercrime agencies." 7 . Accordingly, the present petition stands allowed with a direction to
 respondent No.1/Bank to keep the disputed amount as informed to them by
 cybercrime agency (respondent No.2), in a fixed deposit, which shall be allowed
 to be liquidated only after the order is passed by the competent Judicial Magistrate
 within four months' time as it is expected from the Cybercrime Police to proceed
 in accordance with law under Section 102 of Cr.P.C., or any other law on which
 they are relying upon, failing which the amount so kept in fixed deposit may also
 be allowed to be withdrawn by the petitioner under intimation to the Cyber crime
 agency. 8. With the aforesaid, the petition stands allowed and disposed of

 (PRANAY VERMA)
 JUDGE

 SS/-