Through: Mr. Ashok Desai, Sr. Advocate
 with Mr. P.R. Chopra and Mr.
 S.K. Mendiratta, Advocates. CORAM :- HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE A.K. SIKRI
 HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW

A.K. SIKRI, ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE: 1. We would like to start with the following quote from Mohinder Singh

Vs. Chief Election Commissioner , AIR 1978 SC 85:- 2. In Rameshwar Prasad and others (VI) Vs. Union of India and

another (2006) 2 SCC 1, Justice Pasayat struck following sound note in this

behalf:- (though it was a minority opinion rendered by Justice Pasayat,
 there cannot be any quarrel about the aforesaid observation) 3. It is for this reason that the framers of the Constitution rightly provided

for constitution of an independent body like Election Commission of India for

conducting elections to Parliament and Legislative bodies. The Election

Commission of India is a constitutional body created under Article 324 of the

Constitution of India. Article 324 of the Constitution of India sets out duties WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 2 of 23 of the Election Commission of India which specifically include an obligation

to ensure that elections conducted by it are free, fair and are true reflections of

the will of the voters. Conducting free and fair elections in a country like

India, 73 crores people of which country constitute electoral bank, is by no

means an easy task. India is the largest democracy in the world. Because of

number of factors i.e. different culture, different languages, diverse territories

with different ecology and climatic conditions, the high rate of illiteracy and

poverty as well as different societal norms, the challenges faced by the

Election Commission of India in this country are unique and unparallel. 4. The international standards that an election has to meet, to be

considered free and fair, comprehend:- 5. Here in this writ petition filed in the form of Public Interest Litigation,

we are not concerned with different facets of free, fair and transparent system

of elections. It cannot be denied that with 73 crores voters in General

Parliamentary Elections and crores of voters in each State Legislative

Elections, the system of paper ballot is quite cumbersome. Not only printing

of paper ballots of such a magnitude involves hundred tons of papers and

printing cost, manual counting of the ballots becomes a mammoth job

requiring huge manpower and man-days resulting in delays in announcing the

results. In this electronic age where science and technology are making

strides at a rapid pace which in turn is making many things easier in life, use

of electronic system instead of paper ballot is a big welcome, provided it is

not fraught with frailties and other possible dangers or shortcomings thereof

are duly taken care of. WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 4 of 23 6. We may mention here itself that in certain Election Petitions filed in

various High Courts, the propriety and legality of use of Electronic Voting

Machines (EVMs) has come up for discussion and its positive side has been

reflected in those judgments. The High Court of Karnataka in the case of Michael B. Fernades Vs. C.K. Jaffer Sharief & Ors. (EP No. 29/1999

decided on 5.2.2004) appreciated the EVM system in the following words: 7. The Madras High Court had the occasion to comment upon the EVMs

and narrate its advantages in the case of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra

Kazhagam Vs. The Chief Election Commissioner, Election Commission of

India & Ors. (W.P. Nos . 3346 etc. of 2001, decided on 10.4.2001) in the

following words:- 8. The Bombay High Court, likewise, in Election Petition No. 1 of 2004

decided on 21.10.2005 in the case of Banwarilal Vs. Shri Vilas Muttemwar

& Ors. praised the EVMs system as under:- 9. The use of technology for elections began over a century ago with

mechanical voting machines. These evolved into a variety of electro-

mechanical systems. In rare cases, there is now internet voting, which gives

voters freedom to cast their ballot from a location of their choice. EVMs are a

subset of available electronic voting technologies. The introduction of WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 8 of 23 electronic voting (also known as „e-voting‟) is usually driven by one or a

combination of the following factors: (iii) Increased accuracy and speed of results tabulation, (iv) Voting anywhere in a constituency, (v) Improved accessibility for voters with disabilities and for
 remote/overseas communities and the lure of new
 technology. 10. Presumably, for the aforesaid reasons or otherwise, the petitioner has

not suggested that EVMs be dispended or that we should revert back to the

paper ballot system. Focus is only one, viz to ensure prevention of misuse

EVMs utilized by the Election Commission of India. It‟s a matter of record

that for the last few centuries, the system of paper ballot has been developed.

This system definitely meets all the aforesaid six requirements. Whether this

is achieved by the introduction of EVMs which has replaced paper ballot is

the question which is the focus of the present petition. 11. We may repeat that the petitioner has not questioned, during the

arguments, the introduction of this system though he has some apprehension

about the vulnerability of EVMs to fraud and from security point of view. WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 9 of 23 The focus of the petitioner even is limited. His grievance is that the present

system of EVM is not transparent inasmuch as there is no guarantee/assurance

left to the voter, with convincing proof that the EVM has rightly registered

the vote cast by a voter in favour of a particular candidate. As of now, when

the voter casts a vote in favour of a particular candidate, he has to press a

button and the light against the name of a particular candidate flashes. The

petitioner contends that this is not a sufficient safeguard. According to him,

the requirement is to incorporate in the EVMs a certain obvious safeguard

which is called the "paper back up", "paper receipt" or "paper trail" 12. The petitioner specifically emphasizes that at no stage he has made the

averment that there has actually been fraud through EVMs of the Election

Commission; only that any electronic machine can be hacked or rigged and

adequate safeguards are required for conducting free and fare elections. Dr.

Swamy has invited our attention to the order dated 17.2.2010 wherein this

Court has stated thus:- Dr. Swamy submitted that this Court had restricted the issue as to paper

trail, being the hub of the matter. It is urged by him that the Election

Commission, the first respondent, has introduced the electronic voting

machine without the paper trail which travels beyond the plenary power

vested with the Election Commission. To buttress the said facet of

submission he has drawn inspiration from the three Judges Bench decision

rendered in A.C. Jose Vs. Sivan Pillai and others , AIR 1984 SC 92. He has

commended us to paragraph 25 of the said decision to highlight that the

Election Commission cannot travel beyond the power conferred by the

Statute. It is highlighted by Dr. Swamy that in the absence of a paper trail WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 11 of 23 there is a violation of the dictionary clause contained in Section 2(r), (v) and

(za) of the Information Technology Act,2000 (hereinafter referred to as the

2000 Act) read in conjunction with Section 12 specially the Subsection (2).

It is further urged by Dr. Swamy that 2000 Act stipulates how an electronic

voting machine is required to be operated inasmuch as the voter/originator is

entitled to a receipt and when there is such a command of the statute then the

Election Commission on its own could not have done away with it and

further in the absence of such paper trail the elections in a way are not

transparent as a consequence of which it tantamount to failure of free and fair

voting which is the milestone of a democracy. 13. He also drew our attention to order dated 17.8.2011 passed in this writ

petition. In that order, statement of learned counsel for the Election

Commission of India was recorded to the effect that the Election Commission

of India had been taking steps by conducting some field trials and the experts

had been engaged to evaluate the process by which field trials are being held.

His submission is that though the Election Commission of India started

conducting these field trials, the same were abandoned abruptly in the middle.

He also referred to the contents of the Affidavit dated 12th April, 2010 filed by

him in which he has highlighted that the Patent Office declined to treat the WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 12 of 23 EVMs as "classified" as the Patents Act did not permit it. Further, though

direction is given to Election Commission of India for manufacture of these

machines, the Commission had outsourced a good part of the machine

rendering the whole process of EVMs quite unsafe. According to him, vital

part of EVM namely „micro- controller‟ which can be called the „brain‟ of

the EVM is outsourced and is produced in Japan and for this reason, it is not

patentable. In fact, the International Patent was applied which was even

rejected by WIPO. Dr. Swamy also referred to the judgment of German

Court holding such a system of EVM as unconstitutional. The German

Federal Constitutional Court ruled in 2009 that „the use of electronic voting

machines requires that the essential steps of the voting and of the

determination of the result can be examined by the citizen reliably and

without any specialist knowledge of the subject. The Court indicated that the

constitution requires that „all essential steps of an election are subject to the

possibility of public scrutiny unless other constitutional interests justify an

exception‟. As a result, the use of EVMs has been stopped in Germany. 14. Mr. Desai, learned Senor Counsel has refuted the aforesaid submissions

of Dr. Swamy. We are not taking note of those submission separately at this

stage but will refer to the same in our discussion. WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 13 of 23 15. Having considered the matter in depth and from what is stated above, it

becomes clear that there are various positive gains which are promised by the

introduction of EVMs and for this reasons it is not even suggested that we

should abandon the system and revert back to the system of paper ballot. At

the same time, the petitioner has highlighted the requirement of transparency

in the system. 16. No doubt, transparency is essential in an election process. Unless stake

holder can see that the process is being conducted correctly and the results are

being accurately aggregated, it is difficult to have confidence in the results

and the outcome. The trust and confidence in the electoral process is an

essential pre-requisite and the results and outcome being expected. 17. The question is as to whether this confidence can be achieved only with

the introduction of paper trail and present system lacks that? Other related

question would be as to whether there is any mandate for the Election

Commission to introduce such a system of paper trail. Mr. Desai has

emphasized that elections also require high level of confidentiality so that

the choice of each voter remains secret. That is also equally essential

component for conducting free and fair elections. He rightly submitted that WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 14 of 23 if system of paper trail is introduced and the receipt is given indicating the

candidate in whose favour a particular voter has voted, the confidentiality in

the system would be lost. That would negate the very essence of free and fair

elections. 18. Thus, the challenge is to reconcile the competing requirements of

transparency of the process and the secrecy of the vote. 19. Before discussing this aspect, we may note the difficulties in

introducing this „paper trail‟ as pointed out by Mr. Desai. The Election

Commission of India in its affidavit has stated that there is no provision to

attach a printer directly to the existing EVMs and it would require

modification by way of an additional device to interface the printer with the

ballot unit for all the 1.3 million EVMs currently in use. It is also stated that

the use of printer is fraught with following problems:- Mechanical failure is a more commonplace
 occurrence than electronic failures. Therefore,
 printers are more prone to mechanical failure like
 paper jamming, paper loading problems, alignment
 etc. This will disrupt polling process. (ii) Printers will require special power back up, which
 many polling stations in rural areas are not
 equipped with. Even printers with battery backup WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 15 of 23 may require regular charging and therefore need
 power outlet which is not available everywhere. EVMs, on the other hand, run on special battery
 backup with very long life. (iii) Handling of printers needs expertise and trained
 personnel. Installing paper rolls, replacing jammed
 papers, replacement of ribbons, etc. requires
 technical expertise. 20. That apart, the Election Commission has also highlighted the cost

factor as it may result into whopping expenses of ` 1040 crores (though by

itself this may not be a relevant factor inasmuch as for conducting fair and

free elections, cost cannot be the deterrent). The Election Commission has

also stated that it would be difficult to find the required number of technically

competent and dependable manpower to handle the printers for conduct of

elections; the system of paper trail would mean two parallel processes which

would require more time per voter and there are various other practical

difficulties namely the printed trail will necessarily be a small sized paper.

Checking every elector before he leaves the polling station after casting of

vote, to ensure that no one takes the paper slip out of the polling station, will

be a difficult exercise. There will also be the risk of electors dropping look

alike paper in ballot box instead of the actual printed paper from the EVM

leading to violation of secrecy of votes, possible intimidation, allurement etc. WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 16 of 23 This will provide an opportunity to the electors to carry the paper trail

outside. Such a possibility could encourage bribing of electors and also

intimidation of the electors. At the same time, the polling personnel cannot

be permitted to take the paper slip from the elector and physically examine it

(to ensure that they are dropping the actual paper trail in the box) since such

intervention will violate the secrecy of votes. 21. We also find that the present system is in tune with the provisions of

the People of the Representation Act, 1951 as well the Conduct of Election

Rules, 1961. Section 61A of the PR Act reads as under:- 22. Likewise, Rules 49A, 49B, 49E, and 49M to which our attention is

drawn by Mr. Desai are to the following effect. 49E. Preparation of voting machine for poll.-(1) The
 control unit and balloting unit of every voting machine
 used at polling station shall bear a label marked with- (a) the serial number, if any, and the name of the
 constituency; (b) the serial number and name of the polling station or
 stations as the case may be; (c) the serial number of the unit; and (d) the date of poll. (2) Immediately before the commencement of the poll,
 the presiding officer shall demonstrate to the polling
 agents and other persons present that no voter has been
 already recorded in the voting machine and it bears the
 label referred to in sub-rule (4). (3) A paper seal shall be used for securing the control
 unit of the voting machine, and the presiding officer
 shall affix his own signature on the paper seal and
 obtain thereon the signature of such of the polling agents
 present as the desirous of affixing the same. (4) The presiding officer shall thereafter fix the paper
 seal so signed in the space meant therefor in the control
 unit of the voting machine and shall secure and seal the
 same. (5) The seal used for securing the control unit shall be
 fixed in such manner that after in unit has been sealed, it
 is not possible to press the ``result button'' without
 breaking the seal. (6) The control unit shall be closed and secured and
 placed in full view of the presiding officer and the WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 19 of 23 polling agents and the balloting unit placed in the voting
 compartment. 49M. Maintenance of secrecy of voting by electors
 within the polling station and voting procedures.-

 (1) Every elector who has been permitted to vote under
 rule 49-L shall maintain secrecy of voting within the
 polling station and for that purpose observe the voting
 procedure hereinafter laid down. (2) Immediately on being permitted to vote the elector
 shall proceed to the presiding officer or the polling
 officer incharge of the control unit of the voting
 machine who shall, by pressing the appropriate button
 on the control unit, activate the balloting unit; for
 recording of elector's vote. (3) The elector shall thereafter forthwith- (a) proceed to the voting compartment; (b) record his vote by pressing the button on the
 balloting unit against the name and symbol of the
 candidate for whom he intends to vote; and (c) come out of the voting compartment and leave the
 polling station. (4) Every elector shall vote without undue delay.

 (5) No elector shall be allowed to enter the voting
 compartment when another elector is inside it. (6) If an elector who has been permitted to vote under
 rule 49-L or rule 49-P refuses after warning given by
 the presiding officer to observe the procedure laid down
 in sub-rule (3) of the said rules, the presiding officer or WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 20 of 23 a polling officer under the direction of the presiding
 officer shall not allow such elector to vote. (7) Where an elector is not allowed to vote under sub-
 rule (6), a remark to the effect that voting procedure
 has been violated shall be made against the elector's
 name in the register of voters in Form 17-A by the
 presiding officer under his signature." 23. Once we accept that with paper trail system, secrecy of the ballot is

suspect, it would not be possible to give such directions. On that note, we

consider as to whether the present system of EVM lacks transparency. 24. As noted in the beginning by us, even Dr. Swamy does not suggest

that there has actually been any fraud through the EVMs in the elections. He

has also not advocated for the strap of the system and, therefore, reference to

the judgment of the German Court may not be of any avail. He was candid

in stating that at no stage such an averment is made. His entire argument and

justification for paper trail system is passed on the apprehension that any

electronic machine can be hacked and rigged and, therefore, adequate

safeguards are essential to meet the constitutional mandate of conducting free

and fair elections. It will be difficult to accept the prayer only on the basis of

such an apprehension. WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 21 of 23 25. The obligation of the Election Commission is to conduct election as per

the provisions of law which is being done. If the politicos want change in

law, the appropriate course of action is to make suitable provisions in the law

by appropriate amendments. We are also of the opinion that provisions of IT

Act have no application to such a case/system. Therefore, it is difficult to

issue a mandamus directing the Election Commission to introduce the

system of paper trail. 26. Having held so, we would like to make certain parting observations.

Dr. Swamy is right to the extent that it cannot be ruled out that EVMs may

be vulnerable to frauds. There may be security issues as well. Though, there

is no evidence that such things have happened so far and it is not even

suggested by Dr. Swamy, the Election Commission had itself started the

exercise of experimenting this and to improve the system to make it

foolproof. For certain reasons that is abandoned midway. Such a major

policy decision needs thorough deliberations by all the stake holders

including the legislative process. There should be wide consultation which

should allow ample and meaningful opportunity to all the stake holders to

achieve sufficient understanding of both the issues and the technology.

Technology is making advancement at rapid pace and, therefore, more and WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 22 of 23 more consultation to the challenges of voting by EVMs can be found.

Policy decision based on full discussion, research and consultation may

therefore be needed. However, it would be for the Legislature or the

Election Commission to consider the aforesaid or other related aspects. 27. This writ petition is disposed of in the aforesaid terms. ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE

 (RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW)
 JUDGE

JANUARY 17, 2012
skb WP(C) No.11879/2009 Page 23 of 23