Heard with the aid of case diary. This is the second bail application filed under section 439 Cr.P.C.
 Applicant Jaspreet Singh Sachdeva @ Jassi was arrested on 27/4/2019 in
 Crime No. 119/2018 registered at Police Station Cyber Crime Branch
 Bhopal, District Bhopal for the offence punishable under Section 419 , 468 , 471 , 120B of IPC and Section 66C and 68D of I.T. Act 2008. The first bail application of the applicant has been dismissed on merit
 by the co-ordinate Bench of this Court vide order dated 30/8/2019 passed in
 M.Cr.C.No.34917/2019. As per prosecution story, complainant Vineeta Bajpayi lodged a
 written complaint at P.S. Cyber Crime Branch Bhopal averring that she was
 contacted by a person on her mobile phone who told her that he was from
 Shinework consultancy and she might get a job as an accountant in a
 company like Godrej or Mahindra for which she is required to get herself
 registered with the website namely www. Shinework.in, after paying the
 registration charge of Rs. 10/-. It is further averred that when she tried to pay
 the aforesaid registration fee of Rs. 10/- an extra amount of Rs.10000/- got
 deducted from her account. The complainant came to know about the
 mischief when she received a message from her credit card company. On
 that report, police registered crime No. 119/2018 at Police Station Cyber
 Crime Branch Bhopal, District Bhopal for the offence punishable under Section 419 , 468 , 471 , 120B of IPC and Section 66C and 66D of I.T. Act
 2008 and investigated the matter. During the investigation, it was found that

 ` Digitally signed by VARSHA SINGH Date: 2020.08.29 13:08:35 +05'30' co-accused Ajay Kumar in connivance with other co-accused persons Vishal
 Goswami, Sahil Dagar, Sonal Singh Rathore, Jayant and Gazal @ Sofiya
 created a website "www. Shinework.in" to cheat innocent people. Co-
 accused Vishal Goswami created that website and registered it on
 "Godaddy. com." For registering that site sim number 8800750951
 belonging to co-accused Ajay Kumar and the sim number 8860357318
 belonging to co-accused Sofiya were used and registration fee was paid by
 co-accused Sahil Dagar. Co-accused Vishal Goswami also prepared 50 fake
 IDs on Gmail and sent a list of those IDs to co-accused Ajay Kumar by
 Email on his email ID [email protected] , who forwarded that
 message to Sahil on his Email ID [email protected] . Modus
 Operandi of the co-accused persons was that they used to call people and tell
 them that they could get jobs in big companies, but for that, they will have to
 register themselves on their website by paying ₹ 10 as fee. When people
 deposited the fee with their card to register they took note of their card
 number, account number, card expiry date etc. and by using that data
 transferred the money from victim's accounts to other wallet and thus
 cheated people. Applicant Jaspreet Singh Sachdeva @ Jassi provided them
 internet connection, space and other facilities to run the centre. The static IP
 address used in the crime was to applicant Jaspreet Sachdeva. So the police
 arrested the applicant and other co-accused. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is
 innocent and has falsely been implicated in this case. It is further submitted
 that there is no direct evidence on record to connect the applicant with the
 crime. It is alleged that the Static IP address which was used to commit the
 crime was allotted to the applicant but in this regard, there are many
 contradiction and omissions in the statement of prosecution witnesses i.e.
 Deepak Kumar Mehto (PW-8), Sunil Chaturvedi (PW-9), Rohit Kumar
 Dwivedi (PW-10) and Suprabhat Majhi (PW-11). Even from the Statements
 of Kuldeep Singh (PW-6) and Ashutosh Sharma (PW-5), it is clear that at the
 time of incident applicant Jaspreet Singh Sachdeva @ Jassi was not in India,
 he was in Georgia which clearly shows that the Police falsely implicated the

 ` Digitally signed by VARSHA SINGH Date: 2020.08.29 13:09:06 +05'30' applicant in the crime. Even the statement of complainant Vinita Bajpayi
 has been recorded by the trial court. She did not depose anything against the
 applicant. She clearly deposed that due to her fault Rs. 10010/- got deducted
 from her account in place of Rs.10 which was refunded to her in 3 days.
 Charge-sheet has been filed. The applicant has been in custody since
 27/4/2019 and the conclusion of the trial will take time, hence prayed for the
 release of the applicant on bail. Learned counsel for the State opposed the prayer and submitted that
 applicant in connivance with other co-accused persons created a phishing
 website through which they committed fraud upon innocent persons. The
 static IP address which was used in the crime belonged to applicant Jaspreet
 Singh Sachdeva @ Jassi and from the statement of prosecution witnesses, it
 is clearly proved that the said static IP address belongs to the applicant. The
 earlier bail application of the applicant has been dismissed on merits by the
 co-ordinate Bench of this Court. There has been no change of circumstance
 since then. Even Hon'ble Apex Court vide order dated 09/12/2019 passed
 in SLP No.9/12/19, dismissed the bail application of the applicant, so he
 should not be released on bail. Cybercrime is rising day by day. Cybercrime is a serious threat to
 innocent people who conduct their money transactions through the internet.
 Because of cybercrime the innocent people are not only losing their hard-
 earned money but also losing faith in the process of online money
 transactions which is not good for the economy of the country. The
 investigation of cybercrime is also difficult because it is committed by the
 miscreants from remote places and investigating agencies are not fully
 equipped and skilled to collect evidence against accused persons who
 commit cybercrime. So it is not always possible to get direct evidence
 against the accused persons who have committed Cybercrime. In this case
 also the crime was committed from New Delhi while the victim was at
 Bhopal. So the evidence collected by the prosecution should be seen as a
 whole to see the role of every miscreant who is allegedly involved in the
 crime. ` Digitally signed by VARSHA SINGH Date: 2020.08.29 13:09:17 +05'30' In this case complainant Vinita Bajpayi (PW-2) in her examination-in-
 chief clearly deposed that she paid Rs.10/- through her credit card, but
 instead a sum of Rs. 10,010/- got deducted from her account, regarding
 which she had logged a written report (Ex.P-1). It is also alleged that the IP
 address allotted to the applicant was used in committing the crime and from
 the statements of prosecution witnesses i.e. Deepak Kumar Mehto (PW-8),
 Sunil Chaturvedi (PW-9), Rohit Kumar Dwivedi (PW-10) and Suprabhat
 Majhi (PW-11) it is clear that the said IP addresses belonged to the applicant
 Jaspreet Singh Sachdeva @ Jassi. At this stage, this court cannot ascertain
 the veracity of the statements of the prosecution witnesses by evaluating
 their statements on merit. Earlier bail application of the applicant has been
 dismissed on merits by the Coordinate Bench of this Court. His bail
 application has also been dismissed by the Hon'ble Apex Court vide order
 dated 09/12/2019 passed in SLP No.9/12/19. Since then there has been no
 change in circumstance except the period of detention and only on that
 ground of custody period, the applicant is not entitled to get bail. Apex Court in the case of Rajesh Ranjan Yadav alias Pappu Yadav
 v. CBI Through its Director reported in (2007) 1 SCC 70 held that bail,
 can not be granted solely on the ground of long incarnation in jail and
 inability of accused to conduct the defence. Apex court in the case of State
 of M.P. v. Kajad , (2001) 7 SCC 673 observed "It is true that successive bail
 applications are permissible under the changed circumstances. But without
 the change in the circumstances, the second application would be deemed to
 be seeking review of the earlier judgment which is not permissible under
 criminal law" as has been held by this Court in Hari Singh Mann v.
 Harbhajan Singh Bajwa [(2001) 1 SCC 169: 2001 SCC (Cri) 113] and
 various other judgments. So, looking to the overall facts and circumstances of the case and the
 allegations, this Court is not inclined to grant bail to the applicant. Hence, M.Cr.C. is rejected. (Rajeev Kumar Dubey)
 JUDGE
 vs

 ` Digitally signed by VARSHA SINGH Date: 2020.08.29 13:09:28 +05'30' `