Hon'ble Attau Rahman Masoodi,J. ( By Hon'ble Attau Rahman Masoodi,J. )
 

 
	A manifestation of man's eternal quest to conquer space, time and distance is about to be historically witnessed and achieved with the launching of the Lucknow Metrol Rail Project in the capital city of the State of Uttar Pradesh, which moment has been supplemented with the flutter and excitement of this legal battle between two commercial giants, vying against each other, to bag the prestigious contract of commissioning the project to be executed by the Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation. On the project becoming functional, the vision of reducing and eliminating traffic jams as well as environmental pollution is likely to be fulfilled if not entirely, at least upto the aspirations of the people in their endeavour to preserve the culturally rich heritage city of Lucknow. The petitioner alleges an unfair treatment meted out to it by the 'Corporation to non suit its tender midway in spite of its lowest bid having been found to be technically and financially sound, on a ground that is unsupportable on any legal principles, and simultaneously complains of award of contract to the third respondent's consortium by deliberately avoiding to investigate the disqualification of the said respondent and negotiating the contract by extending the facility of lowering its bid to match it with that of the petitioner. In short, the entire decision making process to eliminate the petitioner and award the contract to the third respondent is alleged as an unfair deal that reflects a questionable and unlawful stand taken by the Corporation. The Corporation has defended its action to have treated the participants fairly, and in its affidavits has pointed out a default in the petitioner's tender about non-disclosure of its debarment in other commercial transactions that squarely attracted the fatal disqualification clause under the terms of tender. This discovery of a relevant fact, that was concealed by the petitioner, authorised the Corporation to terminate all negotiations with the petitioner without anything further. The petitioner contests this position primarily on the ground that such disclosure was not essential and, therefore, irrelevant which was suitably explained prior to the impugned action, but even otherwise, if the same did require consideration then any adverse decision ought to have been preceded followed by a conscious determination on a consideration of the version of the petitioner. This having not been done, the decision making process is in violation of principles of natural justice that attracts infringement of the rights of fair treatment guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Coupled with this, no genuine effort was made by the Corporation to embark upon any enquiry to find out any concealment of relevant information about the alleged disqualification of the third respondent, either before eliminating the petitioner or preceding the award of contract, which came to be finalised by comfortably suiting the conditions as desired by the third respondent in undue haste. The third respondent has defended the award of contract in its favour by contending that it does not suffer from any disqualification of non-disclosure and it does not suffer from any such disqualification in fact, about which baseless allegations have been made that remain unsubstantiated. The decision taken is just and no terms of the tender have been violated. The petitioner has not laid any foundation to establish the authenticity of the allegations made and has attempted for a fishing and roving enquiry to create a mountain out of a molehill. We have been very ably assisted by Sri Jaideep Narain Mathur, Senior Advocate alongwith Sri Dhruv Mathur, Advocate for the petitioners, Sri Vijay Bahadur Singh, learned Advocate General for the State of U.P. alongwith his team of State counsel, Sri P.S. Patwalia, learned Senior Counsel and Addl. Solicitor General of India alongwith Sri Kumar Ayush for the Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation and Sri Rakesh Dwivedi, Senior Advocate assisted by Sri Ashish Mishra for the respondent no. 3. The Tender
 

 
	The term 'contract' and 'contract agreement' have been distinctly defined in the tender document according to which tenders were invited on 12.12.2014 by Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the 'LMRC'), codifying the same as LKRS01 for design, manufacture, supply, testing, commissioning and training of 80 no. standard gauge cars, electrical multiple units including train control, signalling and telecommunication system for N-S Corridor of Lucknow Metro Rail Project. The due date for submission of tenders complete in all respects was 21.4.2015. This writ petition has come to be filed at a stage when negotiations for award of contract agreement had already materialised between LMRC and respondent no. 3 (consortium of companies) on 2.9.2015 which is alleged to have come to the knowledge of the petitioners by surprise on the basis of some publication made in the newspaper on 8.9.2015. Disqualification of the petitioners (consortium of companies), in the tender process being resorted to without any prior notice to the petitioners and notwithstanding that the financial bid offered by them was found to be the lowest, is essentially the subject matter of challenge in the present writ petition. The prayer made in the writ petition thus, reads as under: LMRC is a joint venture company (SPV-Special Purpose Vehicle) of the Government of India and Government of Uttar Pradesh incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 , wherein the respective governments hold equal shares. The company has been constituted to implement Lucknow Metro Rail Project. The financial control of 100% shares as well as management being within the pervasive control of the respective governments, as such, the company is the instrumentality of the State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India. The appropriate cost of the entire project is about 6880 crores out of which 47% of financial investment is internal and 53% by external funding agencies. The State Government in order to streamline the transport service in the capital city of Uttar Pradesh i.e. Lucknow, took up the cause in Public Interest with the Government of India, as a result LMRC was constituted in order to carry out the Lucknow Metro Rail Project. The Corporation in the pursuit of its objects invited the instant tenders by making due advertisement in the news papers, in response to which as many as three bidders including the petitioners (consortium of companies), offered their tenders. For the evaluation of tenders which involves multi level evaluation, the process of evaluation commenced after receipt of tenders. All informations relating to the tender process were to be kept confidential and not disclosed as would be evident from the relevant part of clause E.2 in the tender document, reproduced below: The Covenant of Integrity is the central point of dispute in relation whereof, parties were to make necessary disclosures on the due date having regard to its contents in the form extracted above. The tender document further obligates the tenderers of making certain more declarations on the due date. Apart from Covenant of Integrity as mentioned above, the tender document contains a check list of information for the purpose of initial filter evaluation and the relevant items of check list informations are extracted below: S.No.
 
Criteria
 
Yes
 
No 1 Has the Applicant abandoned any work in the last ten (10) years ? Deleted. Has the Applicant delayed any work in the last ten (10) years by more than 75% of the original period of completion due to his default? Has the Applicant delayed by more than 50% of original period of completion in more than 20% of the number of works in the last ten (10) years due to his default? Has the applicant suffered bankruptcy / insolvency in the last ten (10) years? Has the Applicant been debarred by Government of India / any State Government in India / Central or State Government undertaking as on the due date of submission of bid? (Bidder to furnish a specific undertaking to this effect) 7 Deleted. Has any misleading information been given in this application? Is the Applicant financially sound to perform the work as per criteria T1 and T2? 9A
 
Is the Net Worth of the applicant (to be obtained from Balance Sheets / Annexure 5 of Initial Filter Questionnaire) in the last financial year positive? Has the applicant certified that no agent / middleman has been or will be engaged or any agency commission been or will be paid? Has the Applicant submitted duly filled verification statement no. - 29
 

 

 

 
"2. A "YES" answer to any question 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 or 15 will disqualify the Applicant. 3. A "NO" answer to any question 9, 9A, 10, 11, 12, 12.1, 13 or 14 will disqualify the Applicant. 4. In the case of a Joint Venture / Consortium / each Individual member must qualify individually in the 'Filter of Applicants - Check List' except for Criteria at serial number 9, 9A, 12 and 12.1. The Criterion at Serial Number 13 applies only to the manufacturer of the Propulsion Equipments, who can be either a member of the Consortium/JV or a sub-contractor." 31.
 
Applicant and each member of the JV or Consortium shall verify, confirm & declare about DEBARRED as on the due date of submission of bid as noted below. (Here DEBARRED means that the applicant applies to each member of the JV/Consortium) has been blacklisted or debarred by Government of India /any State Government in India / Central or State Government undertaking from participating in the tenders for a notified period of time. Copy of the notification of such debarment shall be submitted in the bid). By virtue of my signature below, I confirm and verify to my best knowledge and belief that the company represented by me for submitting bid against this tender is not DEBARRED as on the due date of submission of bid. Signed :____________________
 
(to be signed by applicant and each member of the group)
 

 
Date:_______________________
 
 
 
	The successful bidders in the initial filter evaluation are bound to inform LMRC about any debarment by the funding agency/Government of India/State Government/Government undertakings after the due date and before opening of financial package and non-disclosure thereof, if any, results into automatic disqualification and financial package of such a tenderer will not be opened and shall be returned unopened. Apart from this, clause E4.9 is relevant, which is extracted below: Clause 4.33 and 4.33.1 of the tender document that deal with the corrupt or fraudulent practices, for our purpose are extracted below: b.	Will reject the Tender for the Work or rescind the Contract if the Employer determines that the Bidder/Contractor has engaged in corrupt or fraudulent practices. c.	Will declare a Contractor ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time, to be awarded a Contract/s if he at any time determines that the Contractor has engaged in corrupt or fraudulent practices in competing for, or in executing the Contract. d.	Should any employee of the Contractor be determined to have engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practice during the execution of the Works, then that employee shall be removed. e.	The successful Bidders/Contractors shall apprise the Employer through Chief Vigilance Officer, LMRC of any fraud/suspected fraud as soon as it comes to their notice." Relevant facts
 
	In the aforesaid background, a total number of three tenders came to be received in response to the advertisement which fell for consideration in the initial filter evaluation and technical evaluation. The technical evaluation was held on 21.4.2015 and only two tenders qualified in the technical evaluation i.e. the petitioner and respondent no. 3 (both consortium of companies). The technical evaluation was, therefore, approved by the Board of LMRC in its 17th meeting held on 16.7.2015. The qualification in technical bid was intimated to the parties, as is evident from the letter dated 17.7.2015 contained in Annexure-2 to the writ petition, wherein the date for opening of the financial bids was intimated to be scheduled on 24.7.2015. The financial bids were opened on 24.7.2015 and the petitioners were found to have offered the lowest bid whereas the respondent no. 3 stood as L-2 being the only second qualified bidder. The financial bid of the petitioners being lowest gave rise to a legitimate expectation of being called for the execution of contract agreement, particularly when the Director Level Tender Committee of the LMRC on 28.7.2015 made a recommendation favouring petitioners' financial bid for acceptance. The respondent LMRC has taken a stand on affidavits filed that in order to ensure financial support, it had started negotiations with the European Investment Bank as the agency that had agreed to fund the project. The said bank was, therefore, kept informed of every stage of the tender evaluation so that their concurrence was available to the LMRC for a smooth availability of finances to execute the project. The tender process sailed smooth till the end of July, 2015 when, all of a sudden, the situation took a new turn upon the alleged receipt of an information by the LMRC from the European Investment Bank (hereinafter referred to as 'EIB') on 30.7.2015. This communication is significant and being relevant, is reproduced below: http://www.jica.go.jp/english/notice/150311 01.html
 

 
As the tender submission was within this period of time, we believe that this debarment should have been disclosed on the covenant. In addition ITT E4.9, E5.7 and Annex FT 16 further requires such disclosure. Hence LMRC may like to reconsider their position in the light of this new information. We await you response. Kind regards
 

 
Zoltan Donath
 
Piers Vickers" (on fraud and deceit) 2. (1998) 5 SCC 170: S.K. Bhargawa v. Collector, Chandigarh . (on compliance of natural justice during determination) 3. (1991) 3 SCC 273: Poddar Steel Corporation v. Ganesh 		 Engineering Works and others . (no strict adherence required on disclosure) 4. 2013 (10) SCC 95: Rashmi Metaliks Limited and another Vs. 	 Kolkata Metropolitan . Development Authority
 

 
	The arguments on behalf of the respondents opened with an equally categorical response by the learned ASGI, Mr. Patwalia, Senior Advocate, who invited the attention of the Court to the various terms of the bid documents to urge that the petitioner was treated fairly and equally at par with all bidders. Upon receipt of three bids, one of them did not qualify and it was only the bid of the petitioner and the respondent no. 3 that survived the initial filtration of tender documents. It is these two bidders whose technical bids were found to be in order and accordingly their financial bids were opened where the petitioner was found to have offered the lowest bid. Upto this stage, not only the petitioner's bid was under active consideration but was also processed and cleared by the Board of the Corporation for being put up for final consideration. However, before that, the Board decided to also inform the EIB, that was the funding agency associated with providing the proposed project finances, and obtain its concurrence as per the tender evaluation conditions. Sri Patwalia also emphasized that the entire decision making process was by the Board consisting of eight members four of whom were responsible high ranking Central Government and State Government civil servants including the Chief Secretary of U.P. and four very highly reputed technocrats under the able guidance of Sri E. R. Sreedharan who pioneered the successful Delhi Metro Rail Project. He urges that the petitioner has not alleged any personal mala fides against the Board or its constituent members having deliberated upon in any impartial manner to either eliminate the petitioner or award the contract to the respondent no. 3. He also points out that no mala fides have been attributed by the petitioner to the funding agency, namely, the EIB, to have dwelt upon the LMRC to take any decision either way. The information received from the EIB on 30.7.2015 was independently assessed by the Board and the fact of debarment of the petitioner by JICA upon discovery came to be fortified by the admission of the petitioner voluntarily through its letter dated 1.8.2015 addressed to the LMRC. It is then that the Board in its meeting dated 2.8.2015 resolved unanimously to disqualify the petitioner in view of the clauses of the tender documents disclosed hereinabove. Sri Patwalia, advancing his submissions, urged that the decision of the Board was a collective decision after considering each and every document and the bona fides of the Board is absolutely clear that right up to the stage of opening of the financial bid, the petitioner had not raised any complaint or alleged any irregularity in the tendering process. The information which was received from the EIB was only a source of material which was considered independently by the Board and the decision was taken after the said information was found to be correct. This is clearly substantiated by the own admission of the petitioner in the letter dated 1.8.2015 including the fact of dismissal of its employees on account of their misconduct. Sri Patwalia then contends that the information of the finalisation of the negotiations ought to have been brought to the notice of the High Court in Writ Petition No. 7548 of 2015 but that does not, in any way, come to the advantage of the petitioner nor is it of any disadvantage to the answering respondent on the facts of the present case. He submits that the respondent no. 2 Corporation has filed all its affidavits in the present case and he also submits that the entire records are available as per the disclosure made about the decision making process, which can be perused by the Court. He has further submitted that the affidavits which have been brought on record not only by the respondent no. 2 but also by the respondent no. 3, clearly indicate that JICA is a multinational funding agency, which clearly falls within the definition of a funding agency as defined in the Covenant of Integrity reproduced hereinabove. The deletion of JICA's name from the final tender documents was only to widen the definition of funding agency and not to exclude JICA from the same. There is no declaration either by the government nor is there any material so as to construe that JICA is not a multinational funding agency. Even the petitioner has not been able to demonstrate the same. The question of any incorrect understanding by the petitioner, therefore, does not arise and JICA, in no way, ceases to be a funding agency. He, therefore, contends that the argument of the petitioner that JICA's deletion from the tender documents amounts to its exclusion from the definition of funding agency is misconceived and misdirected. He then submits that the contention of violation of principles of natural justice while determining the offer of the petitioner and its elimination does not arise as the moment it is established that the facts were deliberately not disclosed about the debarment, the same entails a complete disqualification and the tender has to be simply rejected. He submits that on the admitted position of non-disclosure, this was a clear fraudulent practice as facts were misrepresented by the petitioner about its debarment and, therefore, the elimination clause was attracted. he contends that in matters of award of contract, such principles are not attracted and he has relied on the following decisions to substantiate his submissions: Jagdish Mandal v. State of Orrisa & Ors. (2007) 14 SCC 518
 
2 to 6, 10, 11, 17 to 22, 27 to 29 and 33 to 35. 2.
 
Siemens Public Communication Networks Private Ltd.& anr. v. Union of India and others
 
(2008) 16 SCC 215
 
2, 19 to 26 and 35 to 41. 3. Asia Foundation v. Trafalgar House Construction (1997) 1 SCC 738
 
2 to 11 4.
 
Maa Binda Express Carrier & anr. v. North-East Frontier Railway & ors. (2014) 3 SCC 760
 
2 to 5 and 9 to 12 5. W.B. Electricity Board v. Patel Engineering Co. Ltd . (2001) 2 SCC 451 33 6. Reliance Airport Developer Ltd. v. Airport Authority of India Ltd . (2006) 10 SCC 1
 
88 to 99
 
	
 
	Apart from the aforesaid submissions, he also submits that such a negotiation which is clearly above board and does not suffer from any infirmity, does not require any interference even in the larger public interest, where the contract has already been set into motion and the project is to be concluded within a year. Sri Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Counsel for the respondent no. 3 has also advanced his submissions supporting the stand of the LMRC, supplementing it with the aid of the affidavits that have been filed on behalf of respondent no. 3. He contends that the petitioner did not raise any objection to the participation of the respondent no. 3 consortium clearly because this consortium had absolutely no adverse material against it. He submits that the allegation about the parent company of the respondent no. 3 is totally misplaced and on a complete misunderstanding of the corporate status of the respondent no. 3 consortium vis-a-vis the present contract. For this, he has relied upon the judgement in the case of Vodafone International Holdings BV vs. Union of India & others , (2012) 6 SCC 613, particularly paragraphs 57 to 82, 97 to 109, 127, 254 to 260 and 277 to 280 in support of his submissions. He further submits that the argument of lifting of the veil raised by the petitioner's counsel and then trying to understand the legal entity of respondent no. 3 is a misconceived argument and is not available on the facts of the present case, for which reliance is placed on the case of Balwant Rai Saluja and another vs. Air India Ltd. and others , (2014) 9 SCC 407. He further submits that this understanding about the status of JICA, as pleaded by the petitioner, is a camouflaged argument because all the bidding parties had a clear understanding about what is a multinational funding agency. It is for this reason that the petitioner company is also completely silent about their global activities including their holding companies throughout the world. It is for this reason that he contends that the petitioner had full knowledge about the allegations which have now been made against the respondent no. 3 when a similar project at Cochin came to be executed in 2014 that was also a matter of participation of bid by the petitioner and the respondent no. 3, and similar unsubstantiated allegations had been published in the newspapers. The contract was finally awarded to the respondent no. 3 at Cochin and these allegations nowhere found favour, which were already known to the petitioner at the time of the bid in the present project. Yet the petitioners did not choose to raise any complaint which clearly explains their dishonest and mala fide intention of trying to level allegations that too long after the filing of this petition which, in no way, concerns the consortium of the respondent no. 3. He further submits that the petitioner was well aware about the letter of EIB which was immediately followed by the voluntary disclosure by the petitioner in the letter dated 1.8.2015. This letter also does not level any allegations against the respondent no. 3. Not only this, such allegations have come forward in a desperate mood during the pendency of this petition and not prior to that. Sri Dwivedi submits that if at all such information was relevant then the petitioner ought to have made the same allegations against the respondent no. 3. It is, therefore, clear that the allegations have now been made with a view to prejudice the mind of this Court on the strength of newspaper reports and articles which are baseless. He further submits that internet material information relied on by the petitioner no where establishes any relation of the activities of the respondent no. 3 consortium so as to disqualify either the third respondent on account of its activities or any of its Directors, agents or servants. he has invited the attention of the Court to the entire information in rebuttal placed in the shape of an additional affidavit filed on behalf of the respondent no. 3. He contends that the consortium of the respondent no. 3 and its activities have nowhere been established to be controlled or influenced by those companies about which allegations have been made by the petitioner. Supplementing the arguments in relation to the disqualification of the petitioner, he submits that any suppression by the petitioner would invite disqualification and there is no discretion left with the employer to grant any leverage to the petitioner for further participation as the petitioners do not qualify on account of non-disclosure including the violation of the terms of the Covenant of Integrity. He submits that the significance of disclosure at every stage is evident and the consequences are inevitable. There is no scope for granting any concession. The petitioner, once it is established that he has violated the terms of the Covenant of Integrity and the mandatory terms and conditions of the tender, does not deserve any relief as prayed for. Sri Dwivedi has relied on the following decisions to substantiate his submissions: Sri Vijay Bahadur Singh, learned Advocate General submitted that the role of the State Government is limited as the tendering process is squarely within the authority of respondent no. 2 but he submits that apart from the facts brought on record that clearly establish a transparent system of tendering process, the scope of judicial review in such matters is very limited. He has relied on the following decisions to substantiate his arguments: The sum and substance of the arguments of the respondent is that the tender conditions having been violated on account of misrepresentation and concealment by the petitioner, the petitioner stood disqualified and the tendering process being transparent without there being any element of malice, the scope of judicial review is not available on the facts of the present case. The allegations against the respondent no. 3 have also not been substantiated and, therefore, no ground has been made out for interference. Discussion and findings
 
	The disqualification of the petitioner was arrived at in terms of the resolution passed by the Board on 21.8.2015 which has been brought on record, alongwith the supplementary counter affidavit filed by LMRC on 26.11.2015. Although the said resolution passed by LMRC remains unchallenged in the writ petition, yet the prayer made in the writ petition extracted above, in our view, calls for a scrutiny of the same within the permissible scope of writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The case set up by the petitioners is that they have not indulged into any fraudulent practice so as to entail a consequence of disqualification, whereas the employer i.e. LMRC has emphatically alleged deliberate concealment amounting to a fraudulent practice being indulged into by the petitioners while submitting the tender form wherein, no details as required in the declaration of covenant of integrity were furnished as regards the debarment by JICA on the due date i.e. 21.4.2015. Replying 'No' against item-8 of the check list questionnaire without truthfully making disclosure of debarment by JICA in the covenant of integrity was wrong and misleading, therefore, such a conduct on the part of the petitioner constituted fraudulent practice defined under clause 4.33 of the tender document and disqualifies the petitioners at the threshold of tender process on 21.4.2015, is the case set up by LMRC so as to defend the resolution passed on 21.8.2015. The petitioners have also taken an alternative stand in the rejoinder and supplementary affidavits to the effect that respondent no. 3, in whose favour the contract agreement has been finalised, have also indulged into 'corrupt practices', therefore, this Court on lifting the veil would find that the award of contract agreement by LMRC in favour of respondent no. 3 (Consortium of companies) stands in violation of the same very parameters of the tender document, as have been invoked against the petitioners. The alternative submission in the rejoinder and supplementary affidavits has driven the respondent no. 3 (a consortium of companies) to respond and put up their stand in reply to the prejudice sought to be caused. The primary question that crops up for our consideration is as to whether the petitioners by the non-disclosure of their debarment have indulged into any fraudulent practice or not. If the answer to above question is 'yes' the alternative case set up by the petitioners becomes irrelevant as this Court is not supposed to enter into a roving enquiry of the matter at the instance of a litigant who fails to have established his own cause except to the extent permissible. It is crystal clear from the stipulations under the tender conditions recorded above, that a tenderer having indulged into a fraudulent practice entails a consequence of rejection of his tender. Now coming to the stand of the petitioners in the writ petition set out in paras 17 and 18, we gather that the following statements are only made in relation to disclosures and debarment: The respondent no. 2 i.e. LMRC has placed on record a copy of the declaration i.e. covenant of integrity statement alongwith the affidavit filed on 14/15.9.2015 which in verbatim is the same as appended to the tender form and no details of any description were disclosed by the petitioners about any exclusion or debarment as on the date of submitting the tender on 21.4.2015, except what has been stated in paras 17 and 18 of the writ petition. The petitioners even at the time of filing the writ petition have not stated as to why the debarment by JICA was not disclosed in the declaration of covenant of integrity nor the understanding of declaration in any particular form absolving them of disclosing the same, was detailed in the writ petition. It is also an admitted position that the answer in reply to item-8 of the questionnaire in the check list information was given as 'No'. The disclosure of debarment by Airport Authority of India, JICA and DMRC for the first time was admittedly communicated to LMRC on 1.8.2015 and this position is evident in para 26 of the writ petition which reads as under: The Board has also considered on interim order of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court dated 17.08.2015 under Writ Petition (c) 7656/2015 and LPA 547/2015 stating that order of the respondent (DMRC) dated 10.08.2015 shall not affect the participation of the appellant(Hyudnai Rotem( Tender). The above order of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court does not affect the present tender where offer of Consortium of Hyundai-ROTEM,Korea; BEML, Bengalore & Ansaldo STS S.p.A., Italy are disqualified on account of debarment of Hyundai-ROTEM by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) from March 11, 2015 to July 10, 2015, which the Tenderer has not disclosed at the time of Tender submission for Contract LKRS-01 on 21.04.2015. After consideration the Board has passed the following resolution: We may note that as per clause E3 of the tender document, it is not permissible for a tenderer to bring about any change in the price or substance of the tender or seek any such change during the tender process except the arithmetical errors, therefore, the consideration of the letter dated 1.8.2015 forwarded by the petitioners in the Board meeting was rightly resorted to so as to determine its implications and in order to level the future course of action. Sri Jaideep Narain Mathur, learned Senior Advocate assisted by Sri Dhruv Mathur, who was heard at length, has advanced his arguments on both the counts i.e. determination by the Board on the implications of letter dated 1.8.2015 as well as on the aspect of adopting future course of action by respondent no. 2 which has ultimately affected the petitioners' rights of not being treated as L-1 for the purposes of award of the contract agreement. The resolution passed by the Board has to be examined within the scope of two relevant dimensions of the tender document. The tender document maintains a distinction between 'disclosure' and 'debarment'. The check list questionnaire item-6 read with clause-31 of verification, restricts disqualification of a tenderer exclusively on the ground of debarment imposed by Government of India/States or its instrumentalities as the due date, whereas, the covenant of integrity mandates disclosures of past exclusions by the financial institutions operating globally including multilateral funding agencies. The debarment by any such financial institution in the past or operating on the due date, ipso facto does not disqualify a bidder for participation in terms of tender document but its non-disclosure alongwith necessary details, of course, amounts to tendering a misleading information if the bidder has any such history to its credit singly or jointly. Even the details of measures taken against the employees in the nature of conviction, dismissal or resignation are bound to be disclosed by the tenderer. The consequence of non-disclosure or tendering a misleading information as envisaged in item-8 of the questionnaire results into an automatic disqualification at the threshold of process and it is for this reason that non-disclosure of operative debarment imposed by JICA on 11.3.2015 against the petitioners assumes significance on the due date. Once it is conceded that JICA qualifies to be a multilateral funding agency on the global scene, there appears to be no justification as to why the debarment by such an agency though having come to the knowledge of the petitioners much before the due date, was not disclosed in the spirit of covenant of integrity. The answer 'no' against item-8 of the check list questionnaire in absence of furnishing details of past debarment by JICA (multilateral funding agency) was, thus, a clear breach of the tender document i.e. covenant of integrity amounting to concealment. Having critically examined the resolution in the light of factual narration and admissions as above, we come to an irresistible conclusion that the petitioners, for lack of understanding or whatsoever, had offered misleading information in response to item-8 of the questionnaire and had failed to disclose the requisite details in the covenant of integrity which definitely is inclusive of a declaration of exclusion i.e. debarment by any multilateral funding agency etc. We are not impressed by the stand taken by the petitioners in the rejoinder affidavit that the mention of JICA was specifically struck off in the tender document which originally mentioned JICA at the relevant places at which the information of debarment in relation thereto was to be disclosed, for the reason that the terms of covenant of integrity as they stood on the due date remained unaltered and unchanged as compared to what is said to have been circulated before. Moreover, such a stand adopted by the petitioners on a close and comparative scrutiny of the tender document, in any of the two forms, does not lead to the one and only conclusion that the petitioners were not under a bounden duty to disclose the debarment by JICA as on the due date and no such explanation is offered in the letter dated 1.8.2015. The communication of disclosures on 1.8.2015, it is true, became necessary on account of DMRC debarment by letter dated 29.7.2015 which had to be informed in view of clause E5.7 but this communication contains an admission on the part of the petitioner to the effect that the debarment by JICA as on the due date i.e. 21.4.2015 was fully known to the petitioners. The action taken by the petitioner against its erring employees is a further testimony to the debarment which fact also required disclosure. Thus it is clear that the petitioners had failed to disclose the correct information in the spirit of covenant of integrity and a case of giving misleading information is made out. The next submission made by Sri Mathur, learned Senior Advocate is to the effect that in any view of the matter, it was obligatory on the part of LMRC to have entered into the exercise of determination of establishing fraudulent practice amounting to concealment and failure on the part of the LMRC to issue a notice and observe the principles of natural justice vitiates the resolution dated 21.8.2015. In support of the argument, learned counsel has placed reliance upon a judgement reported in (1998) 5 SCC 170: S.K. Bhargawa v. Collector, Chandigarh (Paras 8 and 9). The argument advanced by the learned counsel is attractive but the same has to be considered in the light of communication of disclosures made by the petitioners on 1.8.2015. Two paragraphs viz. paras 9 and 10 of the communication dated 1.8.2015 being relevant, are extracted below: We gather that the information on 01.08.2015 was tendered to LMRC in the context of debarment by DMRC but not to rectify any shortcoming of the covenant of integrity which expressly is impermissible. It remains a truth that the petitioner (HRC) was facing a debarment as on the due date i.e. 21.4.2015 which was not disclosed at the time of submitting the bid. The requirement of determination as envisaged under clause 4.33.1 (b) may arise in a situation where the party to whom any prejudice is caused may have a reason to dispute the fact or may have a reason to justify, if the existence of such a fact is irrelevant. As observed hereinabove the disclosure of debarment by JICA being a multilateral funding agency was obligatory, and its non-disclosure had a bearing on the conduct of the petitioners on the due date. The right of opportunity, as claimed, therefore, even if the same can be read in the above provision would have been an empty formality in as much as the petitioners could not resile from the statement of having knowledge of the debarment by JICA imposed by letter dated 11.3.2015 as is sufficiently admitted in the communication dated 1.8.2015. Non-disclosure in the covenant of integrity of any such detail is admitted even at this stage. In the facts and circumstances of the present case, the argument so advanced by the learned counsel for the petitioners claiming benefit of opportunity would be asking for a futile exercise. In law, an admission being the best evidence, the submission on behalf of the petitioner, being devoid of merit, is disapproved. Sri Mathur has also argued that the funding agency i.e. EIB, even not being disclosed to the parties has vitally influenced the tender process on the strength of its communication dated 30.7.2015, therefore, once such a communication was made to be the basis of petitioner's ouster, the matter ought to have been subjected to determination by putting him to notice. It is lastly argued that any negotiation resorted to by LMRC by sidetracking the lowest bidder is in clear violation of the tender process as well as the guidelines of Central Vigilance Commission. We would have appreciated all these arguments including the argument of any influence exercised by an undisclosed funding agency provided the petitioner was a valid participant, but to say the least, we observe that in commercial matters, the right of opportunity has to be tested on a different criteria and the element of service to public interest is the decisive factor. The communication by EIB, in the light of petitioners' letter dated 1.8.2015, does not constitute a material unknown to the petitioners and to insist that LMRC should have heard the petitioners on this issue, being against the spirit of law of notice and opportunity propounded in the spirit of Article 14 of the Constitution of India, deserves rejection. Once the surviving bidder remains the lone bidder, reference to the CVC guidelines becomes irrelevant and the submission so made, therefore, carries no weight. The case law cited by the petitioners, is not attracted in the facts and circumstances of the present case. The following portion of clause 4.33.1 deserves reiteration: