1 This petition has been filed under Section 439 Cr.P.C. for

grant of regular bail in case F.I.R. No.38 dated 26.09.2022 registered

under Sections 384 IPC and Section 67-A of the Information Technology

(Amendment) Act ( Sections 420 / 120 B IPC added later on) at Police

Station Cyber Crime, Hisar. 2 Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner

has been nominated on the basis of disclosure suffered by Krishan Kant

Runthla who stands admitted to bail by this Court vide order dated

09.01.2024 passed in CRM-M-65161 of 2023 observing as under :- 3 Custody certificate has been filed. The same is taken on
 record. 4 Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that all the offences
 are triable by Magistrate. Investigation stands concluded. Challan
 stands presented. Petitioner is a young boy who is an undergraduate
 student of 18 years age. There cannot be any apprehension that he
 shall tamper with the evidence and his custody cannot be prolonged as
 a punitive measure and thus he would be entitled for bail.
 5 Per contra, learned State counsel and counsel for the
 complainant have opposed the bail plea by claiming that the
 allegations levelled against the petitioner are serious in nature. The
 allegation is also in respect of serious cyber fraud wherein on the
 pretext of extending loan, the privacy of the complainant has been
 breached by hacking his mobile and thus the petitioner is not entitled
 for release on bail. 6 Having heard rival contentions and after going through the
 records of the case, this Court finds that indeed the allegations levelled
 in the FIR do point out towards the serious scam and the same being
 cyber scam has a wide-sweep. However, purely keeping in view the
 fact that the petitioner is a young student and has clean antecedents,
 present bail plea is accepted. 7 Without commenting on the merits of the case, the petitioner is
 ordered to be released on bail on his furnishing bail/surety bonds to
 the satisfaction of the Ld. Trial Court/Duty Magistrate, concerned
 subject to the following conditions :- 8 In case, any of the aforementioned conditions is breached, the
 prosecution or complainant shall be at liberty to move an appropriate

 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 31-01-2024 06:28:26 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:012455

CRM-M No.3926 of 2024 (O&M) 4 2024:PHHC:012455

 application seeking cancellation of bail. 9 Needless to say anything recorded herein shall not be construed as
 an expression of opinion on the merits of the case."
3 Custody certificate has been filed. The same is taken on

record. As per the custody certificate, the petitioner has been in custody

for 3 months and 25 days and has clean antecedents.

4 Learned State counsel does not dispute that the petitioner

has been nominated by aforementioned Krishan Kant Runthla. However

submits that the allegations levelled against the petitioner are serious in

nature and the bank account of Krishan Kant Runthla was being

managed by the present petitioner and the present petitioner is also said

to have received amounts from Krishan Kant Runthla.

5 I have heard learned counsel for the parties and have gone

through the records of the case. 6 Without commenting on the merits of the case and keeping

in view the nature of evidence against the petitioner, his age,

incarceration suffered and considering the fact that he is a young student,

the present petition is allowed. The petitioner is ordered to be released

on bail on his furnishing bail/surety bonds to the satisfaction of the Ld.

Trial Court/Duty Magistrate, concerned. 7 Needless to say that anything observed herein shall not be

construed to be an opinion on the merits of the case.