and background of the case: The CPIO, Ministry of Home Affairs vide letter dated 29.01.2024 replied as
 under:- 2. Cyber Crime Volunteer Framework has been rolled out as a
 part of cyber hygiene promotion to bring together citizens to
 contribute in the fight against cybercrime in the country and

 Page 1
 assist State/UT LEAs in their endeavour to curb cybercrimes.
 Cyber volunteers are registered and their services are utilized by
 the respective State/UT Police Agencies, as per their
 requirements. Cyber Volunteers are registered, following the due
 process and they will be required to furnish ID proof, address
 proof, photograph etc. MHA has no role in registration of
 volunteers. It has provided the framework for utilization by the
 respective States/UTs. 3. Further, citizens can report cybercrime online on National
 Cybercrime Reporting Portal on www.cybercrime.gov.in. action
 on the complaints reported on National Cybercrime Reporting
 Portal is taken by the concerned LEA i.e. Police officials of
 concerned States/UTs as per the jurisdiction." Dissatisfied with the response received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a
First Appeal dated 02.03.2024. The FAA vide order dated 14.03.2024 upheld
the reply of CPIO. Aggrieved and dissatisfied, the Appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal. Written submission dated 01.08.2025 has been received from the CPIO and
same has been taken on record for perusal. The relevant extract whereof is
as under: 04.01.2024, seeking information related to his joining at MHA
 for Cyber Volunteer. 3. The CPIO disposed of his application on 29.01.2024 and
 informed the applicant that: 4. Cyber Crime Volunteer Framework has been rolled out as a
 part of cyber hygiene promotion to bring together citizens to
 contribute in the fight against cybercrime in the country and
 assist State/UT LEAs in their endeavor to curb cybercrimes.
 Cyber volunteers are registered and their services are utilized
 by the respective State/UT Police Agencies, as per their
 requirements. Cyber Volunteers are registered, following the
 due process and they will be required to furnish ID proof,
 address proof, photograph etc. MHA has no role in registration
 of volunteers. It has provided the framework for utilization by
 the respective States/UTs. 5. Further, citizens can report cybercrime online on National
 Cybercrime Reporting Portal on www.cybercrime.gov.in. action
 on the complaints reported on National Cybercrime Reporting
 Portal is taken by the concerned LEA i.e. Police officials of
 concerned States/UTs as per the jurisdiction. Page 2 6.Shri Debajit Ghosal had filed First Appeal dated 02.03.2024.
 The First Appellate Authority in the matter after having checked
 the available information and relevant provisions of the RTI Act found that the reply of the CPIO was appropriate and in order.
 Accordingly, the appeal was disposed of on 14.03.2024..." Facts emerging in Course of Hearing: