These matters have been heard through video

 conferencing because of COVID-19 pandemic. Heard Dr. K.N. Singh, learned Additional Solicitor

 General of India assisted by Sri Manoj Kumar Singh, learned

 C.G.C., for the Union of India, Sri Arvind Datar, learned Senior

 Advocate assisted by Sri Pavit Singh Katoch, Mr. Aasish

 Somasi, learned Advocates, for respondent no.9-WhatsApp,

 LLC, Sri Gauhar Mirza and Sri Tejas Karia, learned Advocates

 for the respondent No.5-Instagram LLC, Sri Mukul Rohatgi,

 learned Senior Advocate assisted by Sri Ajit Warrier, Mr. Varun

 Pathak, Smt. Ekta Sharma and Smt. Sheniza Farid, learned

 Advocates for respondent no.11-Meta Platforms, Inc., Sri P.N.
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 3/29 Shahi, learned Senior Advocate assisted by Sri Apurv Harsh, Sri

 Sujit Kumar and Sri Prashant Bhardwaj, learned Advocates for

 the State Bank of India, Sri Amit Shrivastava, learned Senior

 Advocate, assisted by Sri Girish Pandey, Smt. Mamta Rani,

 Smt. Shrruttima Ehersa, Sri Rohan Ahuja, Sri Vatsalya Vishal

 and Smt. Riya Gupta, learned Advocates, for the respondent

 nos. 8 and 12, Youtube LLC & Google LLC., Sri Kaushal

 Kumar Jha, learned Senior Advocate assisted by Sri Amit

 Prakash, learned Advocate for the Reserve Bank of India (for

 short "R.B.I.), Sri Ajay, G.A.-5 assisted by Sri Shailendra

 Kumar, Sri Binod Kumar, Sri Tarkeshwar Nath Thakur, learned

 APPs for the State along with Senior Superintendent of Police,

 Muzaffarpur, Sri Bhaskar Shankar and Smt. Prakritita Sharma,

 learned counsel for the Intervenors, Sri S.A. Narayan, learned

 Senior Advocate with Sri Suresh Prasad Singh, learned

 Advocate for the Punjab National Bank (for short "P.N.B."), Sri

 Harendra Prasad Singh, learned Advocate for the B.S.N.L., Sri

 Shailesh Thakur, Additional Director of Financial Intelligence

 Unit and Sri Vishwanath Prasad Sinha, learned Senior Counsel

 assisted by Smt. Soni Srivastava, learned counsel for the

 Economic Offences Unit (for short "EOU"). The Superintendents of Police Nawada, Nalanda
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 4/29 and Sheikhpura have also joined the proceeding virtually and

 have been represented by Sri Ajay, G.A.-5. Sri Amit Srivastava, learned Senior Advocate has

 submitted that at page no.5 of the order dated 21.01.2022 the

 name of the branch of S.B.I. has wrongly been typed as

 "Kidwaipuri Branch" in place of "S.B.I. PBB S.K. Puri". Let the name of the branch of S.B.I. mentioned at

 page no.5 of the order dated 21.01.2022 be read as "S.B.I. PBB

 S.K. Puri" in place of "Kidwaipuri Branch". Matter being investigated by the E.O.U.
 pursuant to the order of this Court. Sri Amit Shrivastava, learned Senior Advocate

 assisted by Sri Girish Pandey, Smt. Mamta Rani, Smt. Shruttima

 Ehersa, Sri Rohan Ahuja, Sri Vatsalya Vishal and Smt. Riya

 Gupta, learned Advocates for the respondent nos. 8 and 12,

 Youtube LLC & Google LLC has informed this Court that they

 have blocked all the URLs, the details of which were shared by

 the E.O.U. with respondent nos. 8 and 12 namely, Youtube LLC

 & Google LLC. He also submits that Youtube LLC and Google

 LLC are fully cooperating with the E.O.U. in investigation of

 E.O.U. P.S. Case No.30 of 2021. He further submits that in case

 any further details are required by the E.O.U., the Youtube LLC
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 5/29 and Google LLC will supply the same to the E.O.U. at the

 earliest, and in order to facilitate the same, he has requested that

 a copy thereof may be marked to him also when E.O.U. sent e-

 mail to Youtube LLC and Google LLC. Sri Vishwanath Prasad Sinha, learned Senior

 Advocate assisted by Smt. Soni Srivastava, learned Advocate

 for the E.O.U. has submitted that henceforth Mr. Amit

 Srivastava, learned Senior Advocate will be forwarded all the e-

 mails which are being sent by the E.O.U. to Youtube LLC and

 Google LLC seeking information in connection with E.O.U. P.S.

 Case No. 30 of 2021. At the very outset, Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned

 Senior Advocate appearing for the respondent no.11-Meta

 Platforms, Inc. submits that he wants two weeks' time to file an

 affidavit on behalf of respondent no.11-Meta Platforms, Inc. He

 further submits that the names of five URLs, details of which

 have been provided by the E.O.U., may also be provided to

 respondent no.11-Meta Platforms, Inc. so that the said URLs can

 be blocked or taken down by the respondent no.11-Meta

 Platforms, Inc.

 E.O.U. is directed to send the details of five URLs

 which are to be taken down and blocked by Meta Platforms, Inc.
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 6/29 or Sri Samir Ali Khan, learned Advocate representing the Meta

 Platforms, Inc.

 By order dated 27.01.2022, respondent no.11-Meta

 Platforms, Inc. was granted ten days time to file its affidavit to

 consider the submission of Sri Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior

 Advocate, that they cannot block or take down the objectionable

 videos without any Court order. In the opinion of this Court, when the objectionable

 posts/videos are uploaded by individuals which are prima facie

 and per se abusive of the judiciary in which even abusive

 language is being used against the Judges of the Supreme Court

 of India, Judges of the High Court and Officers of the State

 Judiciary, no Court order is required to block or take down the

 objectionable posts/videos or materials from the public

 platforms. Respondent No.11-Meta Platforms, Inc. is to

 specifically file its affidavit on the aforesaid issue. On the request of Sri Mukul Rohatgi, learned

 Senior Advocate, two weeks' time is granted to respondent

 no.11-Meta Platforms Inc. to file its affidavit with regard to the

 aforesaid observations so that this issue can be decided at the

 earliest. This Court is of the opinion that Ministry of
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 7/29 Information and Broadcasting is also a necessary party in the

 facts of this case when this Court is dealing with the

 objectionable posts/videos abusing the judiciary and therefore,

 they should also be heard in this proceeding. Office is directed to add the Ministry of

 Information and Broadcasting, Government of India through its

 Secretary as opposite party to this proceeding. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting will

 be represented by Dr. K.N. Singh, learned Additional Solicitor

 General of India. He is directed to file affidavit about the stand

 of the Ministry as to whether abusive posts/videos against the

 judiciary should be removed from the social medial platforms or

 they will do it only after a Court order. Sri Arvind Datar, learned Senior Advocate,

 appearing for the respondent no.9-WhatsApp LLC has also

 submitted that WhatsApp LLC is also providing full cooperation

 with the investigating agency and they shall also, in future, be

 providing full cooperation with the E.O.U. He also prays for

 two weeks' time to file his affidavit and the same is allowed. Matter relating to illegal wealth of cyber criminals. The reports of the Superintendents of Police,
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 8/29 Nawada, Nalanda and Sheikhpura, have been received, in which

 they have given the details of properties of cyber criminals. Dr. K.N. Singh, learned Senior Advocate and

 Additional Solicitor General of India along with Mr. Manoj

 Kumar Singh, learned advocate for the Enforcement Directorate

 appear and have been heard on the issue. Sri Daulat Kumar, Deputy Director, Enforcement

 Directorate, has also participated in the proceeding virtually. Sri

 Sanjeev Sharma, Principal Director (Investigation) has also

 participated in the proceeding virtually along with Mr. Rishi Raj

 Sinha, learned Advocate for the Income Tax Department. Both; Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax

 Department, have assured this Court to take action against the

 cyber criminals under the relevant provisions of the Income Tax

 Act and Prevention of Money Laundering Act, if applicable. Sri. Rishi Raj Sinha, learned advocate for the

 Income Tax and Sri Sanjeev Sharma, Principal Director

 (Investigation) have jointly submitted that they have manpower

 constraints, and in order to resolve the same, Sri Sanjeev

 Sharma, Principal Director (Investigation) will request the

 Central Board of Direct Taxes (C.B.D.T.) to provide more

 officers under him so that the enquiry into the source of
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 9/29 properties acquired by cyber criminals is done and action is

 taken under the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act against them including prosecution under the Income Tax Act . Sri Daulat Kumar, Deputy Director, Enforcement

 Directorate, has also assured this Court that they will take

 appropriate action under the relevant provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act against the cryber

 criminals. Dr. K.N. Singh, learned Senior Advocate and

 Additional Solicitor General of India and Mr. Rishi Raj Sinha,

 learned advocate for the Income Tax Department are directed to

 produce action taken reports from the Enforcement Directorate

 and Income Tax Department by 08.02.2022 as directed earlier. In the opinion of this Court, the concerned Senior

 Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police particularly

 the Senior Superintendents of Police/Superintendents of Police,

 Nalanda, Nalanda, Sheikhpura and Patna should interact with

 Joint Director/Deputy Director of Enforcement Directorate and

 the Director General (Investigation), Income Tax Department

 regularly atleast once a month and share the details of the cyber

 criminals so that suitable action may be taken by the Income

 Tax Department and the Enforcement Directorate against the
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 10/29 cyber criminals. The Director General Police or the Additinal

 Director General of Police (Headquarter), Bihar, Patna, are

 directed to issue a letter to all the Senior Superintendents of

 Police/ Superintendents of Police of various districts in Bihar

 that in case cyber crime is reported in their jurisdiction they

 must share the details of the cyber crime to the Enforcement

 Directorate and the Investigation Wing of the Income Tax

 Department, as directed above, so that suitable legal action is

 taken against them. With regard to the matter of Punjab
 National Bank, Muzaffarpur. Sri S.A. Narain, learned Senior Advocate and Mr.

 Suresh Prasad Singh, learned Advocate have appeared for the

 P.N.B. and have filed affidavits. It has been informed that Sri Manu Tripurari,

 amicus curiae, is ill and therefore, on his behalf Sri Rajeev

 Ranjan, learned Advocate, appeared and prayed for some time

 to file reply to the affidavit of the P.N.B.

 Sri Ajay, G.A.-5 appearing for the State is directed

 to file his reply to the affidavit of P.N.B. by 10.02.2022. In view of illness of Sri Manu Tripurari, learned
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 11/29 amicus curiae, Sri Santosh Kumar, learned Advocate is also

 appointed as amicus curiae to assist in these matters. Both; Sri

 Manu Tripurari and Sri Santosh Kumar will assist this Court in

 these cases as amicus curiae. The matter of P.N.B. is adjourned to 11.02.2022.

 The Senior Superintendent of Police, Muzaffarpur,

 is to file his report with regard to fraud committed in various

 branches of P.N.B. under his jurisdiction as well as fraud

 committed by the cyber criminals in nearby districts by

 04.02.2022. With regard to the matter of State Bank of India.

 Heard Sri P.N. Shahi, learned Senior Advocate

 assisted by Sri Apurv Harsh, Mr. Sujit Kumar and Sri Prashant

 Bhardwaj, learned Advocate for this State Bank of India on the

 Interlocutory application filed by the applicant- Atul Kumar

 Verma, whose money has been cheated from the State Bank of

 India by the cyber criminals. Put up this matter on 11.02.2022. With regard to the matter of R.B.I. and F.I.U..

 Due to paucity of time, the issues raised with

 regard to R.B.I. and F.I.U. is to be heard on 07.02.2022.
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 12/29 Sri Kaushal Kumar Jha, learned Senior Advocate

 has requested for exempting the personal appearance of the

 R.B.I. officials who are appearing virtually pursuant to the

 direction of this Court. In the opinion of this Court, this is a very important

 matter and this cyber crime is to be controlled not only by the

 law enforcement agencies but also by the regulations made by

 the R.B.I. to protect the bank accounts of the individuals and

 therefore, their personal appearance in virtual mode is

 necessary. Hence, the prayer of Sri Kaushal Kumar Jha, learned

 Senior Advocate, for exempting the appearance of R.B.I.

 officials is rejected for the present and the officials of the R.B.I.

 are directed to appear on the next date of hearing i.e. on

 07.02.2022. Violation of TRAI guidelines by the
 Telecom Companies. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior Advocate

 appears in Interlocutory application filed by the Cellular

 Operators Association of India for being added as party

 respondent in the present proceeding. He submits that he will

 make his arguments on this Interlocutory Application on a

 subsequent date. Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 13/29 The Court has no objection in accepting the prayer

 of Sri Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior Advocate. Accordingly,

 Interlocutory Application filed by the Cellular Operators

 Association of India is adjourned. In the order dated 11.01.2022, this Court had made

 following observations, which are reproduced herein-below:- Clause - 10 of Circular dated 09.08.2012 requires

 that the service provider is to lodge F.I.R. in the concerned

 Police Station or complaint in the competent Court if any forged

 document is found with CAF (Customer Application Form). It
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 14/29 would be useful to quote Clause-10 of the Circular dated

 09.08.2012 issued by the TRAI, which is as follows:- "10. Lodging Complaint / FIR: The other Licensees after getting any such intimation
 shall terminate / not appoint any such point of sale. (viii) No penalty shall be imposed on the Licensee, if the
 laid down process of activation / verification
 applicable at the time of activation has been followed
 and the forgery is done by subscriber. In case where
 activation/verification process is not followed by the
 Licensee, the penalty shall be imposed even if the
 documents are found to be forged." Cyber crimes begin with the sale of SIMs to cyber

 criminals on the basis of forged documents. Once this forgery is

 committed, the cyber criminals, who use the SIM by obtaining
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 16/29 the same on the basis of forged documents, cannot be traced

 and it is the public at large who has to suffer. The guideline

 particularly for registration of the F.I.R./complaint by the

 Telecom Companies is not merely a procedure to be followed by

 them but once the F.I.R./complaint is filed by a particular person

 with regard to a particular crime, the Police will be activated

 and persons using the SIMs on the basis of forged and fabricated

 documents can be traced and arrested. If no F.I.R. is registered

 on the complaints made by the Telecom Companies then the

 cyber criminals operating in the State can never be traced and

 arrested. The Telecom Companies cannot be allowed to operate

 in complete violation of the guidelines of the Department of

 Telecommunications (DoT). It seems that neither the D.G.P. nor

 the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has acted when

 the guidelines of the Department of Telecommunications were

 being violated with impunity. However, the Telecom Companies

 have found a novel way of not filing F.I.R. but by filing written

 complaints in the D.G.P. office and taking acknowledgment of

 the same. In the opinion of this Court, since the officers of the

 Department of Telecommunications posted in Bihar for last

 many years have accepted this practice, they are also

 responsible for violation of their own circular. This Court had
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 17/29 already directed the Telecom Companies to act as per the

 aforesaid circular dated 09.08.2012 and file complaint/F.I.R.

 before the competent Court/ concerned Police Stations and not

 in any other manner. In the above circumstances, the Director General of

 Police, Bihar, is directed to file an affidavit within a period of

 two weeks from today as to what actions were taken on the

 complaints made by the Telecom Companies in his office. The Department of Telecommunications is also to

 explain as to why it allowed the violation of the guidelines and

 allowed the Telecom Companies to operate without registration

 of the F.I.R./complaint as provided under the guidelines. The Telecom Companies are also to explain as to

 why they have adopted this method of filing complaints in the

 office of the Director General of Police as the same is neither a

 complaint nor an F.I.R. under the Cr.P.C . The Telecom

 Companies should also show cause as to why PENALTY should

 not be levied upon them for violation of the guidelines of the

 Department of Telecommunications since the very beginning,

 which has resulted in spurt in cases of cyber crimes, which has

 made the State of Bihar and particularly the districts of Nawada,

 Nalanda and Sheikhpura in famous in the entire country as
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 18/29 everyday some Police team from other parts of the country are

 visiting the State of Bihar to arrest the cyber criminals. The

 Telecom Companies cannot be allowed to act in such a manner

 which has resulted in giving bad name to Bihar. Today, Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior

 Advocate, submits that the Telecom Companies will face

 difficulty if they are asked to file F.I.Rs in the various Police

 Stations under whose jurisdiction the crimes have been

 committed and therefore, the Telecom Companies be allowed to

 file complaints before the Superintendents of Police of the

 concerned districts in which the crime was committed. In

 support of his submissions, he has relied upon a judgment of

 Madras High Court rendered in the case of Seethalakshmi vs.

 State of Tamil Nadu and Ors. reported in 1989 SCC Online

 Mad 272 : 1991 Cri LJ 1037, more particularly paragraph no.

 19 onward of the judgment and submitted that under law an

 F.I.R. can be filed under Section 36 of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure (for short " Cr.P.C .") before the Superintendent of

 Police of the concerned district. I have considered the submissions of Sri Mukul

 Rohatgi, learned Senior Advocate and gone through the

 aforesaid judgment of the Madras High Court.
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 19/29 Chapter-XII of the Cr.P.C . deals with information

 to the Police and their powers to investigate. For proper

 appreciation of the facts, it would be relevant to quote Sections

 154 to 160 of the Cr.P.C. which read as under:- B, section 354-C, section 354-D, section 376, section
 376-A, section 376-AB, Section 376-B, section 376-C,
 section 376-D, section376-DA, Section 376-DB, section
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 20/29 376-E or section 509 of the Indian Penal Code(45 of
 1860) is alleged to have been committed or attempted,
 is temporarily or permanently mentally or physically
 disabled, then such information shall be recorded by a
 police officer, at the residence of the person seeking to
 report such offence or ata convenient place of such
 person's choice, in the presence of an interpreter or a
 special educator, as the case may be; (b) the recording of such information shall be
 videographed; (c) the police officer shall get the statement of the
 person recorded by a Judicial Magistrate under clause (a) of sub-section (5A) of section 164 as soon as
 possible.]
 (2) A copy of the information as recorded under sub-
 section (1) shall be given forthwith, free of cost, to the
 informant. (3) Any person aggrieved by a refusal on the part of an
 officer in charge of a police station to record the
 information referred to in sub-section (1) may send the
 substance of such information, in writing and by post,
 to the Superintendent of Police concerned who, if
 satisfied that such information discloses the
 commission of a cognizable offence, shall either
 investigate the case himself or direct an investigation to
 be made by any police officer subordinate to him, in the
 manner provided by this Code, and such officer shall
 have all the powers of an officer in charge of the police
 station in relation to that offence. 155. Information as to non-cognizable cases and
 investigation of such cases.-- (1) When information is
 given to an officer in charge of a police station of the
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 21/29 commission within the limits of such station of a non-
 cognizable offence, he shall enter or cause to be
 entered the substance of the information in a book to be
 kept by such officer in such form as the State
 Government may prescribe in this behalf, and refer the
 informant to the Magistrate. (2) No police officer shall investigate a non-cognizable
 case without the order of a Magistrate having power to
 try such case or commit the case for trial. (3)Any police officer receiving such order may exercise
 the same powers in respect of the investigation (except
 the power to arrest without warrant) as an officer in
 charge of a police station may exercise in a cognizable
 case. (4)Where a case relates to two or more offences of
 which at least one is cognizable, the case shall be
 deemed to be a cognizable case, notwithstanding that
 the other offences are non-cognizable. 156. Police officer's power to investigate cognizable
 case.--(1)Any officer in charge of a police station may,
 without the order of a Magistrate, investigate any
 cognizable case which a Court having jurisdiction over
 the local area within the limits of such station would
 have power to inquire into or try under the provisions
 of Chapter XIII. (2) No proceeding of a police officer in any such case
 shall at any stage be called in question on the ground
 that the case was one which such officer was not
 empowered under this section to investigate.
 (3) Any Magistrate empowered under section 190 may
 order such an investigation as above-mentioned. 157. Procedure for investigation.--(1) If, from
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 22/29 information received or otherwise, an officer in charge
 of a police station has reason to suspect the
 commission of an offence which he is empowered under section 156 to investigate, he shall forthwith send a
 report of the same to a Magistrate empowered to take
 cognizance of such offence upon a police report and
 shall proceed in person, or shall depute one of his
 subordinate officers not being below such rank as the
 State Government may, by general or special order,
 prescribe in this behalf, to proceed, to the spot, to
 investigate the facts and circumstances of the case,
 and, if necessary, to take measures for the discovery
 and arrest of the offender: [Provided further that in relation to an offence
 of rape, the recording of statement of the victim shall
 be conducted at the residence of the victim or in the
 place of her choice and as far as practicable by a
 woman police officer in the presence of her parents or
 guardian or near relatives or social worker of the
 locality.]
 (2) In each of the cases mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) of the proviso to sub-section (1), the officer in
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 23/29 charge of the police station shall state in his report his
 reasons for not fully complying with the requirements
 of that sub-section, and, in the case mentioned in
 clause (b) of the said proviso, the officer shall also
 forthwith notify to the informant, if any, in such manner
 as may be prescribed by the State Government, the fact
 that he will not investigate the case or cause it to be
 investigated. 158. Report how submitted.-- (1)Every report sent to a
 Magistrate under section 157 shall, if the State
 Government so directs, be submitted through such
 superior officer of police as the State Government, by
 general or special order, appoints in that behalf.
 (2) Such superior officer may give such instructions to
 the officer in charge of the police station as he thinks
 fit, and shall, after recording such instructions on such
 report, transmit the same without delay to the
 Magistrate. 159. Power to hold investigation or preliminary
 inquiry.-- Such Magistrate, on receiving such report,
 may direct an investigation, or, if he thinks fit, at once
 proceed, or depute any Magistrate subordinate to him
 to proceed, to hold a preliminary inquiry into, or
 otherwise to dispose of, the case in the manner
 provided in this Code. 160. Police officer's power to require attendance of
 witnesses.-- (1)Any police officer making an
 investigation under this Chapter may, by order in
 writing, require the attendance before himself of any
 person being within the limits of his own or any
 adjoining station who, from the information given or
 otherwise, appears to be acquainted with the facts and
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 24/29 circumstances of the case; and such person shall attend
 as so required: Chapter IV of the Cr.P.C . deals with powers of

 superior officers of Police and Sections 36 thereof reads as

 follows:- The Supreme Court in the case of Priyanka

 Srivastava & Another vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Ors. reported in (2015) 6 SCC 287 while dealing with the power of

 the Magistrate to be exercised under Section 156(3) of the

 Cr.P.C., has held that there has to be prior applications under Section 154 (1) and 154 (3) while filing a petition under Section
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 25/29 156 (3) of the Cr.P.C. The Supreme Court in the case of Lalita Kumari

 vs. State of U.P. reported in (2014) 2 SCC 1 has issued the

 following guidelines for registration of the F.I.R. 120. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we hold: Action must be taken against erring officers who do not
 register the FIR if information received by him
 discloses a cognizable offence. 120.5. The scope of preliminary inquiry is not to verify the
 veracity or otherwise of the information received but
 only to ascertain whether the information reveals any
 cognizable offence. 120.6. As to what type and in which cases preliminary
 inquiry is to be conducted will depend on the facts and
 circumstances of each case. The category of cases in
 which preliminary inquiry may be made are as under: The aforesaid are only illustrations and not
 exhaustive of all conditions which may warrant
 preliminary inquiry. 102.7. While ensuring and protecting the rights of the
 accused and the complainant, a preliminary inquiry
 should be made time bound and in any case it should
 not exceed 7 days. The fact of such delay and the
 causes of it must be reflected in the General Diary
 entry. 102.8. Since the General Diary/Station Diary/Daily Diary is
 the record of all information received in a police
 station, we direct that all information relating to
 cognizable offences, whether resulting in registration
 of FIR or leading to an inquiry, must be mandatorily
 and meticulously reflected in the said Diary and the
 decision to conduct a preliminary inquiry must also be
 reflected, as mentioned above." The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sakiri

 Vasu vs. State of U.P. & Ors. reported in 2008 (2) SCC 409 has

 observed in paragraph no.25 as under:- From reading of the decisions i.e. Priyanka

 Srivastava (supra) Lalita Kumari (supra) and Sakiri Vasu

 (supra) and also the relevant provisions of the Cr.P.C., it is clear

 that registration of F.I.R. is provided under Chapter-XII of the

 Cr.P.C. and not under Section 36 of the Cr.P.C. In the opinion of

 this Court Section 36 of the Cr.P.C. comes into play only when

 no action is taken by the concerned Police for registration of the

 F.I.R., on a complaint and thereafter the complainant may

 approach the superior authority under Section 36 of the Cr.P.C.

 who may direct for registration of the F.I.R. In the opinion of this Court, the judgment of

 Madras High Court rendered in the case of Seethalakshmi (supra) relied upon by Sri Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior

 Advocate, is not applicable in the facts of the present case. The

 complainant cannot be allowed to approach the police officer

 superior in rank to an officer in-charge of a Police Station, who
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 28/29 may exercise the same powers throughout the local area to

 which they are appointed, as may be exercised by such officer

 within the limits of his station. Unless and until, an F.I.R. is

 lodged by the complainant and if the same is not registered by

 the Station House Officer of the concerned Police Station, under

 whose jurisdiction the crime has been committed, the

 complainant cannot approach the superior police officer in rank

 to the Officer-in-Charge of the Police Station. In the opinion of

 this Court, filing of F.I.R. is most essential and the same should

 be done chronologically. Initially, the complainant must try to

 lodge the F.I.R. under Section 154 of the Cr.P.C. as primary duty

 to register F.I.R. is of the Station House Officer of the concerned

 Police Station and if the Station House Officer of the concerned

 Police Station refused to register the F.I.R. then the complainant

 must move under Section 154(3) and under Section 36 of the

 Cr.P.C. by filing a written complaint to the Superintendent of

 Police of the concerned district, who may exercise the same

 powers as being exercised by the Station House Officer of the

 concerned Police Station and on refusal of the same by the

 Superintendent of Police, the complainant may move the Court

 under Section 156 (3) of the Cr.P.C. for registration of the

 complaint and sending it to the Police Station for registration of
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(15) dt.01-02-2022 29/29 the F.I.R. and investigation. Considering the above, the submission of Sri

 Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior Advocate that Telecom

 Companies be allowed to file their complaints directly before

 the Superintendent of Police of concerned district is hereby

 rejected. The Telecom Companies are directed to register the

 F.I.R. in the local police stations under whose jurisdiction the

 offence has been committee and if the Station House Officer of

 the concerned Police Station does not register the F.I.R. only

 then the Telecom Companies can approach the concerned

 Superintendent of Police for registration of the F.I.R. The

 Telecom Companies cannot approach the Superintendent of

 Police or the D.G.P. directly for registration of the F.I.R. List this matter for further hearing on 07.02.2022. (Sandeep Kumar, J)

pawan/- U