For the Petitioner : Mr. Baibhaw Gahlaut, Adv. For the State : Ms. Bandana Kumari, Addl. P.P.

 Order No.05/Dated- 12.07.2024
 Heard learned counsel for the parties. 2. The petitioner has been made an accused in connection with
 Harla P.S. Case No. 51 of 2024 registered for the offences under Sections
 12(1) 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and Section
 66(C) , 66(D) of the Information Technology, 2000, pending in the Court
 of learned J.M. 1st Class, Bokaro. 3. As per FIR, allegation is that on 29.04.2024, while informant
 along with other police personnels were on night patrolling then he
 received information that in quarter no. 678, street 13, sector IX/B some
 boys were doing cybercrime and then they reached there found and
 interrogated Sagar Das and Rohit Kumar, who admitted to scamming
 customers by obtaining OTPs under the pretense of providing Axis
 Bank credit cards. They transferred the scammed money into their
 accounts with help from Cyber Cafe owner Dhanjee Sharma
 (petitioner). A Redmi mobile phone with SIM card was recovered from
 the petitioner's house. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that petitioner
 is innocent and has committed no offence at all rather he has been
 falsely implicated in this case only on the basis of recovery of mobile
 with SIM card in his house. No material has been collected to show any
 connectivity with commission of any cyber offence by the petitioner. It
 is further submitted that co-accused person with similar allegation has
 already been extended privilege of regular bail by this Court passed in
 B.A. No. 5417 of 2024 vide order dated 25.06.2024. The petitioner is
 languishing in Judicial custody since 29.04.2024 without any rhymes
and reasons. Petitioner undertakes to co-operate in the trial of the case
by remaining physically present as and when required and shall not
indulge in any manner in tampering with the prosecution evidences or
influencing the witnesses of prosecution, hence, the petitioner may be
enlarged on bail. 5. On the other hand, learned Addl.P.P appearing for the State has
opposed the prayer for bail of the petitioner but so far the matter of
parity is concerned, it is admitted that the case of present petitioner
stands on similar footing with the co-accused person who has been
granted regular bail in this case. 6. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, nature of
allegation coupled with the materials available against the petitioner
and period of custody of the petitioner, I am inclined to release the
petitioner on bail. Accordingly, the petitioner named above is directed
to be released on bail on furnishing of bail bond of Rs.20,000/- (Twenty
thousand) with two sureties of the like amount each to the satisfaction
of learned J.M. 1st Class, Bokaro in connection with Harla P.S. Case No.
51 of 2024 subject to the conditions:- In case of violation of the aforesaid conditions, the bail of the
 petitioner shall be cancelled and shall be taken into custody by
 the learned Trial Court itself. (Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, J.)

Sachin