% 26.08.2025 1. The present bail application is filed by the applicant
 seeking pre-arrest bail in FIR No. 7/2025 dated 14.06.2025,
 registered at e-Police Station Crime Branch, for the offences
 under Sections 318(4)/319/340 of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita,
 2023 ('BNS'). 2. The FIR was registered pursuant to a complaint given by
 one Bharat Bhushan Vatwani, who alleged that he has been
 cheated for a sum of ₹48,35,000/- in an online investment scam. 3. It is alleged that on 20.05.2025, the complainant came in
 touch with a woman on Facebook, who introduced him to an
 online trading platform, namely, fxprovip.com. On the
 assurances of potential high returns on investment, the BAIL APPLN. 3256/2025 Page 1 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/08/2025 at 22:08:44
 complainant invested a total amount of ₹48,35,000/- in 18
 instalments up to 13.06.2025 on the said platform. Thereafter, the
 complainant realised that he has been deceived into investing in
 an online scam and cheated out of his entire invested amount,
 which led to him lodging a complaint on 14.06.2025. 4. During the course of investigation, the money trail led to
 the arrest of four accused persons, namely, Sunny Mishra,
 Kuldeep Kumar, Gaurav and Sumit Pradhan. 5. It is the case of the prosecution that during his
 interrogation, co-accused Gaurav disclosed that he was involved
 in arranging bank accounts and SIM cards for use in fraudulent
 transactions at the behest of co-accused Sumit Pradhan, the
 applicant, co-accused Yatin Nanda (the brother of the applicant)
 and some other persons. 6. During investigation, police has also examined the mobile
 phones and WhatsApp of the arrested accused persons. As per
 the prosecution, the WhatsApp chats between the applicant and
 co-accused Sumit clearly establishes that the applicant was
 directly involved in facilitating the mule bank accounts. Several
 voice chats have also been found which allegedly corroborate the
 same. It has also been found that the applicant was exchanging
 Aadhar Cards and Pan Cards of multiple individuals for
 fraudulent use. 7. The learned counsel for the applicant submits that the
 applicant is innocent and he has been implicated in the present
 case on the basis of the disclosure statement of co-accused
 Gaurav, which is inadmissible as evidence. 8. He submits that the applicant is not the beneficiary of the BAIL APPLN. 3256/2025 Page 2 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/08/2025 at 22:08:44
 offence and none of the bank accounts used in the scam are
 linked to the applicant or traceable to him. He submits that the
 only allegation against the applicant is that he facilitated in
 opening of the mule bank accounts, however, none of the
 accounts are in the name of the applicant. He further submits that
 the mobile number attributed to the applicant. 9. He further submits that the applicant stands on a similar
 footing as his brother Yatin Nanda, who has been granted interim
 protection by this Court by order dated 11.08.2025, in Bail
 Application No. 3033/2025. 10. Per contra, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for
 the State vehemently opposes the grant of any relief to the
 applicant on account of the gravity of the offence. She submits
 that non bailable warrants have been issued against the applicant
 as well. She submits that the accounts in which the money was
 transferred after receiving the same from the complainant have
 been found to be involved in multiple complaints registered n
 various parts of the country. 11. She further submits that the applicant was making use of
 alternative numbers and the number attributed to the applicant
 was being used by him. She submits that the applicant had sent
 certain signed cheque leaves on WhatsApp to the co-accused
 Sumit and on verification of the said accounts on NCRP Portal, it
 has been found that several complaints are registered in relation
 to the same as well. 12. She submits that the material found on investigation
 indicates that the accused persons have been using a number of
 accounts to facilitate cyber crimes across various jurisdictions BAIL APPLN. 3256/2025 Page 3 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/08/2025 at 22:08:44
 and the custodial interrogation of the applicant is imperative to
 unearth the entire conspiracy. 13. I have heard the counsel and perused the record. 14. It is trite law that the power to grant a pre-arrest bail is
 extraordinary in nature and is to be exercised sparingly. Thus,
 pre-arrest bail cannot be granted in a routine manner. The
 Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of State of A.P. v. Bimal
 Krishna Kundu : (1997) 8 SCC 104, held as under: 9. Similar observations have been made by us in a recent
 judgment in State v. Anil Sharma [(1997) 7 SCC 187 : The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/08/2025 at 22:08:44
 himself of the nature and seriousness of the criminal
 conspiracy and the adverse impact of it on "the career of
 millions of students", learned Single Judge should not
 have persuaded himself to exercise the discretion which
 Parliament had very thoughtfully conferred on the
 Sessions Judges and the High Courts through Section 438
 of the Code, by favouring the respondents with such a pre-
 arrest bail order." 15. It is the case of the prosecution that the applicant was
 actively involved in facilitating mule bank accounts for the
 purpose of cheating victims by way of an online investment
 scam. It is alleged that certain texts and voice chats have been
 found between the applicant and one of the co-accused persons
 which indicates his complicity in the alleged offence.
 Furthermore, it is alleged that several complaints are registered in
 relation to the accounts linked to the signed cheque leaves sent
 by the applicant to the co-accused Sumit. 16. Although it is disputed that the mobile number attributed
 to the applicant belongs to him, it is contested by the prosecution
 that the number was being used by the applicant at the relevant
 time. While the said aspect can only be ascertained after further
 investigation, at this juncture, the facts of the case do not indicate
 that the applicant is being falsely implicated in the present case
 and it does not appear that the investigation is being carried out
 with the intention to injure or humiliate the applicant. 17. Insofar as the argument in relation to none of the bank
 accounts used in the offence being in the applicant's name and
 him not being a beneficiary of the offence is concerned, from a
 perusal of the Status Report handed over in Court, it appears that
 the accused persons have employed a complex modus operandi
 to cheat the victims in the present case and the applicant was BAIL APPLN. 3256/2025 Page 5 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/08/2025 at 22:08:44
 responsible for facilitating the mule accounts. It is alleged that
 the applicant was also sharing the Aadhar and Pan cards of
 multiple individuals with the co-accused for the aforesaid
 purpose. 18. At this stage, prima facie, the material presented by the
 prosecution indicates the complicity and active involvement of
 the applicant in the commission of the offence. 19. It is also important to note that multiple complaints have
 been received in relation to the accounts used in the present
 offence as well as the accounts linked to the cheque leaves
 allegedly shared by the applicant. The same suggests that the
 complainant is not the only person who has been cheated by the
 accused persons, including the applicant. On a number of
 occasions, this court has observed the proliferation of cyber
 frauds, wherein the accused exploit the vulnerability of gullible
 individuals by enticing them on false pretexts and dupe them out
 of their hard-earned money. 20. Moreover, it is important to note that the FIR was only
 registered on 14.06.2025 and the investigation is currently at a
 nascent stage. It is also pointed out that non bailable warrants
 have been issued against the applicant and he has deliberately
 avoided appearing before the Investigating Agency. In the
 present case, a network of mule accounts in the name of
 financially vulnerable individuals are alleged to have been used
 to complicate the money trail and to cheat multiple victims.
 Looking at the manner which is alleged by the State to have been
 employed by the accused persons, the task of the investigating
 agency to unearth the full extent of the crime appears to be BAIL APPLN. 3256/2025 Page 6 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/08/2025 at 22:08:44
 arduous. In such a scenario, in the opinion of this Court, it cannot
 be expected that the investigating agency would be through with
 the investigation at such a nascent stage and some play in the
 joints has to be provided to the State. Granting pre-arrest bail to
 the applicant would undoubtedly impede further investigation.
 An order of bail cannot be granted in a routine manner so as to
 allow the applicant to use the same as a shield. 21. It is argued that the applicant is entitled to interim
 protection on the ground of parity with his brother Yatin Nanda.
 The role attributed to the applicant, as well as the material
 against him, is significantly more severe than his brother and the
 applicant cannot be granted any relief on parity. 22. In view of the aforesaid discussion, considering the nature
 of the offence as the possibility of multiple victims who have
 been cheated and stage of investigation, in the opinion of this
 Court, the applicant is not entitled for grant of pre-arrest bail. 23. The present application is accordingly dismissed. Pending
 applications also stand disposed of. 24. It is clarified that any observations made in the present
 order are for the purpose of deciding the present bail application
 and should not influence the outcome of the trial and also not be
 taken as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 AUGUST 26, 2025 BAIL APPLN. 3256/2025 Page 7 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/08/2025 at 22:08:44