(Judgment was delivered by T.S.Sivagnanam, J.)

 This appeal filed by the assessee under Section 260A of the Income Tax

 Act, 1961 ('the Act' for brevity) is directed against the order dated 10.02.2016

 passed by the Income Tax Appellant Tribunal, 'B' Bench, Chennai (hereinafter

 referred to as 'the Tribunal') in I.T.A.No.1876/Mds/2015 for the assessment year

 2012-13. 2.The assessee has raised the following substantial questions of law for

 our consideration: 3.The assessee is a non-resident individual and during the assessment

 year under consideration (2012-13) derived income from capital gains and

 interest income assessed under the head 'other sources'. The assessee's father

 owned land and residential house at Bangalore and died on 11.06.2011 leaving

 his last will and testament dated 30.10.2008. The assessee's father appointed

 an executor to execute the directions contained in the will. In terms of the

 recitals in the will, the property at Bangalore was sold on 10.11.2011 for a

 gross sale price of Rs.8,80,00,000/-. In the will executed by the assessee's

 father, there was a direction to the executor of the will, upon sale of the

 property to pay a sum of Rs.10,00,000/- to Sri Sai Spiritual Center Trust, a sum

 of Rs.25,00,000/- to Helpage India, Bangalore, a sum of Rs.15,00,000/- to CRY-

 Child Rights and You, Bangalore and a sum of Rs.10,00,000/- to Sri Ramana

 Ashram, Thrivannamalai. Apart from these payments, there was a direction

 that the executor will be entitled to a sum of Rs.50,000/-. The balance

 amount was to be paid to the assessee and accordingly, the assessee received a 3/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 sum of Rs.8,19,50,000/-. The assessee filed his return of income on 13.07.2012

 admitting total income of Rs.6,22,63,973/- comprising of Long Term Capital

 Gains computed as Rs.5,99,21,346/- arising on sale of the Bangalore property

 by adopting the sale consideration as Rs.8,19,50,000/- and claiming a sum of

 Rs.7,52,500/- as expenditure incurred in connection with the sale. The

 Assessing Officer completed the assessment by order dated 25.09.2014 under Section 143(3) of the Act considering the sale consideration as mentioned by

 the assessee in his return of income, namely, Rs.8,11,97500/- (Rs.8,19,50,000 -

 Rs.7,52,500/-). The Commissioner of Income tax (CIT), International Taxation,

 Chennai issued a show cause notice under Section 263 of the Act proposing to

 disallow the sum of Rs.68,02,500/-, being the payment made to charitable

 institutions and the claim of the expenditure of Rs.8,02,500/-. The assessee

 submitted their objections dated 18.03.2015, firstly on the ground that the

 power under Section 263 of the Act could not have been invoked as well as on

 merits. The CIT by order dated 02.07.2015 disallowed the exclusion of

 Rs.68,02,500/- and directed the Assessing Officer to recompute the total

 income and tax thereon. The assessee carried the matter by way of appeal to

 the Tribunal which affirmed the order of the CIT holding that the exclusion of

 the payment made by the assessee by applying the diversion of income by

 overriding title cannot be allowed and there is no evidence for professional 4/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 fee, commission paid, etc. Aggrieved by the same, the assessee is before us by

 way of this appeal raising the aforementioned substantial questions of law. 4.We have heard Mr.T.N.Seetharaman, learned counsel appearing for the

 appellant/assessee assisted by Mr.R.Kumar, learned counsel and Mr.Karthik

 Ranganathan, learned Senior Standing Counsel appearing for the

 respondent/revenue. 5.Substantial Questions of law 1 and 4 can be bunched together as it

 pertains to the jurisdiction of the CIT to invoke Section 263 of the Act. For

 deciding the Substantial Question of law No.2, certain factual aspects need to

 be looked into, more particularly, the intention of the testator in his will and

 testament dated 30.10.2008. The Substantial Question of law No.3 is with

 regard to the expenses claimed by the assessee which was disallowed by the

 Tribunal on the ground of lack of proof. As noticed above, the assessment was

 completed by the Assessing Officer by order dated 25.09.2014. The order was

 passed under Section 143(3) of the Act after the assessee's case was selected

 for scrutiny and notice under Section 143(2) of the Act was issued on

 23.08.2013. The Assessing Officer issued notice to the assessee under Section

 142(1) of the Act along with questionnaire dated 12.05.2014. In response to 5/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 the said notice, the assessee submitted the details including the last will and

 testament executed by his father dated 30.10.2008, a copy of the sale deed

 dated 10.11.2011, legal opinion obtained from his counsel regarding eligibility

 for exclusion of payments to charitable institutions and remuneration to the

 executor in computing the long term capital gains on sale of Bangalore

 property. All these documents were forwarded to the Assessing Officer through

 the assessee's Chartered Accountant along with their letters dated 28.05.2014

 and 14.06.2016. After perusal of all the records placed by the assessee and

 after noting the submissions of the Chartered Accountant/authorized

 representative of the assessee, the assessment was completed and the stand

 taken by the assessee was accepted by the Assessing Officer. However, the

 plea raised by the assessee with regard to the cost of indexation benefit was

 not accepted and the Assessing Officer held that the assessee is allowed cost of

 indexation benefit only from the financial year 2011-12 as per Explanation (iii)

 in Section 48 of the Act. The Commissioner had issued show cause notice

 dated 12.03.2015 under Section 263 of the Act. In the show cause notice, the

 Commissioner states that the figures mentioned by the assessee were culled

 out from the records, thus there was no other independent material which

 formed the basis of the show cause notice. The CIT opined that the expenses

 claimed by the assessee towards payment to the charitable institutions and 6/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 others were not incurred wholly and exclusively in connection with the transfer

 of Bangalore property and the same is not allowable. According to the CIT, the

 order passed by the Assessing Officer under Section 143(3) of the Act is

 erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of revenue and therefore, he

 proposed to revise the assessment under Section 263 of the Act. The power

 under Section 263 of the Act can be invoked in cases where the twin conditions

 stipulated therein are combinedly satisfied, namely, the order of the Assessing

 Officer should be erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of revenue. Every

 erroneous order may not be prejudicial to the interest of revenue and every

 order prejudicial to the interest of revenue may not be erroneous. The CIT

 while issuing show cause notice points out that the expenses claimed by the

 assessee were not incurred wholly and exclusively in connection with the

 transfer of the Bangalore property. In the preceding paragraphs, we have

 noted the manner in which the Assessing Officer proceeded with the

 assessment. To be noted the assessment was under Section 143(3) of the Act.

 The Assessing Officer issued notice under Section 142(1) of the Act along with

 the questionnaire which had been complied with by the assessee by submitting

 necessary particulars along with documents which includes the last will and

 testament of his father dated 30.10.2008. After examining the same, the

 Assessing Officer accepted the stand taken by the assessee towards expenses. 7/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 The CIT while issuing the show cause notice did not rely upon any independent

 material nor on any interpretation of law but on perusal of the records was of

 the view that the expenditure cannot be allowed as deduction. Along with the

 filled in questionnaire, the assessee had filed the copy of the last will and

 testament of his father, sale deed of the Bangalore property and the legal

 opinion given by the learned counsel for the assessee. After perusal of the

 same, the Assessing Officer has taken a stand and passed the order. Therefore,

 it cannot be stated that the Assessing Officer did not apply his mind to the

 issue, after all the Assessing Officer cannot be expected to write a judgment.

 Admittedly there was an inquiry conducted by the Assessing Officer and it is

 not the case of the CIT that there was a lack of inquiry or inadequate inquiry. 6.In the case of Commissioner of Income Tax vs. Gabriel India Ltd. [(1993) 203 ITR 108 (Bom)], it was held that suo motu revision under Section

 263 of the Act can be exercised only if on examination of the records of any

 proceedings under the Act, the Commissioner considers that an order passed by

 the Income Tax Officer is erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to the interest

 of revenue. It was further held that this power is not arbitrary or uncharted

 power, it can be exercised only on fulfilment of the requirements laid down in Sub-section (1), that an order is erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to the 8/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 interests of the revenue, must be based on materials on the record of the

 proceedings called for by the Commissioner and if there are no materials on

 record, the basis on which it can be said that the Commissioner acting in a

 reasonable manner could have come to such a conclusion, the very initiation of

 proceedings will be illegal and without jurisdiction. It was further held that

 the Commissioner cannot initiate proceedings with a view to start fishing and

 roving enquiries into the matters or orders which are already concluded as

 such an action will be against the well accepted policy of law that there must

 be a point of finality in all illegal proceedings, stale issues should not be

 reactivated beyond a particular stage. Section 263 of the Act does not

 visualize a case of substitution of the judgment of the Commissioner for that of

 the Income Tax Officer, who passed the order unless the decision is held to be

 erroneous. Merely because the Commissioner is not fully satisfied with the

 conclusion of the Income Tax Officer, the order cannot be turned to be

 erroneous. On a reading of the order dated 01.07.2015/22.07.2015 passed

 under Section 263 of the Act one can easily form an opinion that the order is

 based upon the interpretation which the CIT has given to the terms and

 conditions of the last will and testament of the assessee's father dated

 30.10.2008. Thus, it is evident that the CIT has made a roving enquiry and

 substituted his view to that of the view taken by the Assessing Officer who had 9/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 done so after conducting an enquiry into the matter and after calling for all

 documents from the assessee, one of which is the last will and testament

 executed by the assessee's father. Therefore, we are of the clear view that

 this is not a case where the Commissioner could have invoked the power under Section 263 of the Act. For all the above reasons, the Substantial Questions of

 Law 1 and 4 are answered in favour of the assessee. 7.It is the argument of Mr.Karthik Ranganathan, learned Senior Standing

 Counsel for the revenue that the will dated 30.10.2008 clearly states that the

 assessee's father has bequeathed the entire sale consideration received from

 the sale of the Bangalore property to the assessee, the second son born to his

 first wife. It is the submission that the sale consideration has been received by

 the assessee from and out of which payments were effected to the charitable

 institutions, etc and therefore the payments can neither to be considered as

 diversion by overriding title nor expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively in

 connection with the transfer. In this regard, the learned counsel has drawn the

 attention of this Court to the findings of the Tribunal, wherein the Tribunal

 referred to the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Commissioner

 of Income Tax, Bombay City II vs. Sitaldas Tirathdas [(1961) 41 ITR 367

 (SC)]. 10/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 8.We have gone through the last will and testament of the assessee's

 father dated 30.10.2008. He had appointed Mr.M.S.Narayan, Advocate as the

 executor to give effect to the terms and conditions of the will and dispose of

 his properties as stated by him in the will. The executor was entitled to a sum

 of Rs.50,000/- as professional fee and all expenses for the due execution of the

 will from and out of the estate of the deceased testator. After setting out the

 details of his family and the property possessed by him, the testator states

 that he bequeaths the sale consideration received from the sale of the

 immovable property absolutely to the assessee, his second son. Then the

 testator proceeds to state that the executor of the will shall arrange to sell the

 property after a period of one year from the date of his demise so as to

 accommodate his wife for her stay and after she vacates the property, the

 executor shall sell the property as already mentioned and distribute the sale

 proceeds by effecting payments in favour of the four charitable institutions

 specifying the amount to be paid to each of them and defray the necessary

 expenses towards stamp duty, etc., fees to the executor and the remaining

 sale consideration be paid to the assessee who shall repatriate the said amount

 so received for the education of his children as per RBI rules. To gather the

 intention of the testator the will has to be read in its entirety and not in bits 11/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 and pieces as done by the revenue. The word 'absolutely' in the second line of

 paragraph 7 of the will is heavily relied on by Mr.Karthik Ranganathan to state

 that the entire sale consideration has been bequeathed to the assessee

 absolutely and the payments to the charitable institutions is from and out of

 the said amount and therefore it is only the application of the said sale

 consideration and not diversion of income by creating overriding title. What

 has been lost sight of by the revenue is that the usage of the expression

 'absolutely' occurring in the second line in paragraph 7 of the will dated

 30.10.2008 is to disinherit the testator's third wife from being entitled to any

 portion of the funds and all that the testator stated was not to sell the

 property for one year till his wife vacates the same. The Tribunal found fault

 with the assessee for having sold the property much earlier. The sale deed

 dated 10.11.2011 clearly records that the step mother of the assessee had in

 unequivocal terms agreed for the sale and she vacated from the property and

 also granted No objection for transfer of “Katha” of the Bangalore property.

 Therefore, the interpretation given by the Tribunal is wholly erroneous. In

 paragraph 21 of the impugned order passed by the Tribunal, it has been stated

 that "the entire sale consideration received from the sale of immovable

 property absolutely to his second son i.e. Kumar Rajaram and thereafter he

 said he has to distribute the sale proceeds after paying property taxes if 12/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 found due and shall make payment out of the sale consideration and also said

 how to distribute the sale consideration". We find that the word 'thereafter'

 used in paragraph 21 of the order of the Tribunal nowhere occurs in paragraph

 7 of the will dated 30.10.2008. However, the testator's direction to sell the

 property was to the executor of the will and there was a specific direction to

 the executor to pay specific sums of money to the charitable institutions, clear

 the property tax arrears, claim his professional fee, meet the stamp duty

 expenses and the remaining amount shall be paid to the assesee. Therefore,

 the misinterpretation of the intention of the testator in his will dated

 30.10.2008 has resulted in an erroneous order passed by the CIT dated

 01.07.2015 which order was erroneously confirmed by the Tribunal by the

 impugned order. 9.Mr.Karthik Rangathan, learned Senior Standing Counsel placed reliance

 on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of R.M.Arunachalam

 vs. Commissioner of Income Tax [(1997) 93 Taxman 423 (SC)]. In the said

 case, the question was whether the estate duty paid in respect of the estate of

 one 'R' and the estate of one 'V' to the extent of such duty related to the assets

 in question, could be claimed as a deduction as cost of acquisition or as cost of

 improvement. The question was answered against the assessee as the capital 13/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 asset became the properties of the assessee under the will executed by 'U' i.e.

 under clause (ii) of sub-section (1) of Section 49 ; the capital assets became the

 property of 'U' under sub-clause (a) of clause (iii) of sub-section (1) of section

 49 by succession after the death of her husband 'R' and by virtue of the

 explanation in sub-section (1) of Section 49 'R' had been treated as the previous

 owner of the assets by the ITO. On facts, it was found that the assessee

 admittedly became the full owner of the assets even before the payment of

 estate duty and on payment of the same, he had not acquired a new right,

 tangible or intangible, in the assets and therefore the amount proportionate to

 the estate duty paid by the assessee on the properties that were transferred

 should be treated as cost of acquisition of the assets under Sections 48 and 49 read with section 55(2) cannot be accepted since the title of the assessee to

 the immovable properties acquired was not incomplete and imperfect in any

 way and as a result of payment of estate duty by the assessee there was an

 improvement in the title of the assessee and the said payment could be

 regarded as cost of improvement under Section 55(1)(b) of the Act. 10.In our considered view the said decision can have no application to

 the facts of the present case as at no point of time the assessee raised any

 dispute with regard to the cost of acquisition of the asset. That apart, the 14/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 case on hand requires to be interpreted based on the intention of the testator

 for which purpose we have read the will dated 30.10.2008 as a whole to gather

 the intention of the testator which is clear and lucid. The testator bequeathed

 only portion of the sale consideration left over after effecting payments

 directed to be made by him. If the executor failed to honour the

 commitments then the sale itself would be invalid. Furthermore, in the

 recitals in the sale deed dated 10.11.2011, it has been clearly mentioned about

 the payments effected to all the charitable organisations which are all through

 bankers cheques drawn in the name of the concerned organisations by the

 purchaser. 11.The Hon'ble Supreme in the case of Provat Kumar Mitter vs.

 Commissioner of Income Tax [(1961) 41 ITR 624(SC)] held that the

 fundamental principle is that an application of income is allocation of one's

 own income after it accrues or has arisen, although such application may be

 under a contract or obligation, whereas diversion of income is that which

 diverts away or deflects before it accrues to or reaches the assessee, and it is

 received by him only for the benefit of the person who is entitled to the

 income under an overriding charge or title. This position was explained by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Motilal Chhadami Lal Jain vs. 15/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 Commissioner of Income Tax [(1991) 190 ITR 1 (SC)] stating that what has to

 be seen is the nature of obligation by reason of which the income becomes

 payable to a person other than the one receiving it; where the obligation

 flows out of an antecedent and independent title it effectively slices away a

 part of the corpus of the right to receive the entire income and thus it would

 be a case of diversion. In the case of Commissioner of Income Tax vs.

 Imperial Chemical Industries (India) (P .) LTd. [(1969) 74 ITR 17], it was held

 that where there is an obligation to apply an income in a particular way before

 it is received by the assessee or before it has accrued or arisen to the assessee,

 it is a case of diversion of the income. In the case of Sitaldas Tirathdas

 which decision was referred to by the Tribunal, it was held that where by the

 obligation income is diverted before it reaches the assessee, it is deductible;

 but where the income is required to be applied to discharge an obligation after

 such income reaches the assessee, the same consequence, in law, does not

 follow. 12.In the preceding paragraphs, we have set down the factual position

 which clearly shows that the amounts were specifically earmarked by the

 testator to the charitable institutions and other expenses. The sum of monies

 so allocated were to reach the respective charitable institutions/entity before 16/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 the reminder of sale consideration reaches the assessee. In other words, the

 assessee at no point of time was entitled to receive the entire sale

 consideration. The sale was to be executed by the executor of the will who

 was directed to distribute the money to the respective organisations, defray

 the expenses, pay the property tax, deduct his professional fee and the

 remaining amount was directed to be paid to the assessee. Therefore, to

 interpret the will in any other fashion would be doing injustice to the intention

 of the testator and the interpretation given by the CIT is wholly erroneous as

 the CIT appears to have done the same "cherry picking" in the last will and

 testament which is not the manner in which a will needs to be interpreted.

 The intention of the testator was very clear as the assessee was not entitled to

 the entire sale consideration. In fact if the interpretation of the CIT and the

 Tribunal were to be accepted, we would be rewriting the last will and

 testament. The testator did not bequeath the Bangalore property but

 bequeathed part of the sale consideration which was left behind after meeting

 the commitments mentioned in the will to be truly and faithfully performed by

 the executor of the will. Thus, we can safely conclude that the major portion

 of the sale consideration on being received from the purchase of the property

 stood diverted before it reached the assessee and under the will there was no

 obligation cast upon the assessee to receive the sale consideration and 17/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 distribute the same in the manner desired by the testator. For the above

 reasons, we answer the Substantial Question of law No.2 in favour of the

 assessee. 13.The Substantial Question of law No.3 is with regard to the

 expenditure claimed by the assessee. The assessee had produced documents

 before the Assessing Officer who had scrutinized the same and accepted the

 genuinity of the claim and granted the benefit. The CIT disallowed the

 expenses on the ground that the Assessing Officer did not make an indepth

 inquiry. A similar finding was tested for its correctness by the High Court of

 Delhi in the case of Commissioner of Income vs. Sunbeam Auto Ltd. [(2011)

 332 ITR 167 (Delhi)] and it was held that one has to keep in mind the

 distinction between "lack of inquiry" and "inadequate inquiry". If there was an

 inquiry, even adequate that would not by itself give occasion to the

 Commissioner to pass orders under Section 263 of the Act merely because he

 has a different opinion in the matter and it is only in cases of lack of inquiry

 that such a course of action would be open. As mentioned by us in the

 preceding paragraphs, the assessee has responded to the notice issued under Section 142 of the Act and produced documents and records including their

 statement of total income wherein they had given the entire details including 18/20 http://www.judis.nic.in T.C.A.No.415 of 2019 the receipts issued by the respective persons to whom payments were

 effected, all of which were through banking channels. Therefore, in our

 considered view the finding rendered by the CIT was perverse which ought not

 to have been affirmed by the Tribunal more so for the reason that there was no

 evidence with regard to the expenses like professional fee, etc. The Tribunal

 failed to note that the assessee had produced the copies of the receipts signed

 by the respective party before the Assessing Officer who was satisfied with the

 same and in the absence of any fraud being alleged with regard to the

 authenticity of those documents, the CIT could not have revised the

 assessment by invoking Section 263 of the Act. For the above reasons, the

 Substantial Question of law No.3 is answered in favour of the assessee. 14.In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee is allowed and the

 Substantial Questions of law are answered in favour of the assessee. No costs.