AMIT BANSAL, J. I.A. 1560/2022 (u/O.XXXIX R. 1 & 2 of CPC ) 1. By the present order, I propose to dispose of the application filed on
behalf of the plaintiff under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 of the Code of Civil
Procedure , 1908 ( CPC ), seeking grant of interim injunction. 2. Summons in the suit and notice in the present application was issued
on 28th January, 2022 and a note was made of the submission on behalf of
the plaintiff, that the plaintiff has also filed an application under section 17
CS(OS) 49/2022 SignaturePage
 Not Verified
 1 of 22
 Digitally Signed By:AMIT
 BANSAL
 Signing Date:31.05.2022 17:48:14
 of Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of
Security Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI act), before the Debt Recovery
Tribunal (DRT), which was coming up for hearing on the same date at 2.00
P.M. 3. In the order dated 2nd February, 2022, it was noted that the DRT vide
order dated 28th January, 2022, has restrained the defendant no.5 Bank from
taking possession of the plaintiff's property and posted the matter for 9th
February, 2022. On 11th February, 2022, it was noted that the plaintiff shall
make a deposit of Rs.20,00,000/- before this Court and the defendant no.5
Bank was restrained from taking possession of the plaintiff's property.
Later the written statement along with the reply to the present application,
was filed on behalf of the defendant no.5 Bank. 4. Office noting reveals that the summons sent to the defendants no.1
and 4 are unserved and the service report in respect of the defendant no.3 is
awaited. Vakalatnama has been filed on behalf of the defendant no.2, but he
has only been represented on 2nd February, 2022 and not on any subsequent
hearing. 5. The case set up by the plaintiff in the plaint is that: xvi. On 13th January, 2022, the plaintiff received a Notice from the Court
 Receiver appointed by the CMM, Karkardooma Courts, East District
 vide order dated 9th December, 2021, directing the plaintiff to
 handover peaceful possession of the suit property. 6. Accordingly, the present suit has been filed seeking the following
reliefs: ii. The jurisdiction of the DRT is wider than the jurisdiction of the Civil
 Court and therefore, the DRT is competent to adjudicate upon all
 allegations of fraud and forgery. Reliance in this regard has been
 placed on the Judgment of Supreme Court in Industrial Credit and
 Investment Corporation of India Ltd. v. Grapco Industries Ltd ,
 (1999) 4 SCC 710. iii. Similar reliefs have been claimed by the plaintiff in the Securitization
 Application No.21/2022 filed by the plaintiff, before the DRT. iv. The plaintiff along with the defendants no.1 to 4 had approached the
 defendant no.5 Bank, to take over the existing loan they had with the
 Standard Chartered Bank and had further sought additional facilities.
 Representative of the Bank had met the plaintiff at her residence on
 8th May, 2017 and based on that, he submitted his collateral visit
 report dated 8th May, 2017, which shows that the plaintiff had the
 knowledge of the loan being availed by the borrowers and that she
 had consented for the same. v. The plaintiff has admitted in her plaint that she had signed the loan
 application forms. Based on the said loan application forms, the
 defendant no.5 Bank had got the valuation of the plaintiff's property
 done and also obtained the KYC documents of the plaintiff. May, 2017, confirming that she had applied for the loan facilities
 along with the other borrowers. The claim of forgery has been made
 at the belated stage. 9. Both sides have relied extensively upon various judgments in support
of their submissions. Therefore, at the outset, I propose to refer to the said
judgments. Judgments cited by the plaintiff 10. On behalf of the plaintiff, strong reliance has been placed on the
judgment of the Supreme Court in Mardia Chemicals Ltd. & Ors. v. Union
of India , (2004) 4 SCC 311. Paragraphs 50 and 51 of the said judgment are
set out below: 11. In the very same judgment, the Supreme Court also made the
following observations in paragraph 81, which is reproduced hereinafter: vii. 12. Further, reliance has been placed on behalf of the plaintiff on the
judgment of the Supreme Court in Nahar Industrial Enterprises Ltd. v.
Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation , (2009) 8 SCC 646, to
contend that the DRT does not have the powers of a Civil Court and
therefore, the jurisdiction of a Civil Court cannot be completely barred.
Paragraph 97 of the said judgment is set out below: 13. It may be noted that in Nahar Industrial (supra), the Supreme Court
was dealing with the issue of transfer of a suit pending in a Civil Court in
one State to a DRT situated in another State and therefore, the observations
made were in that context and would not be applicable in the present case. 14. Next, reliance has been placed on behalf of the plaintiff on the
judgment dated 9th December, 2013 passed by a Coordinate Bench of this
Court in Ashok Kumar Raizada v. Bank of Rajasthan & Anr. , 2013 SCC
OnLine Del 4961, in support of her contention that in case of a fraud, the
civil suit would be maintainable. The said judgment dealt with a case where
there were several sale deeds floating in respect of the said property and
therefore, the Court was of the view that the case would fall within the
exceptional category of cases, in terms of the judgment of the Supreme
Court in Mardia Chemicals (supra). In the case at hand, there is no dispute
with regard to the title documents of the suit property. 15. Next, reliance has been placed on behalf of the plaintiff, on the
judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in Gurdeep Singh vs. Punjab
& Sindh Bank & Ors. , 2015 SCC OnLine Del 6724. In this case, the
Division Bench was seized of a writ petition filed on behalf of the borrower
against the order of the Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal (DRAT), where a
stay of recovery proceedings was sought on the ground that the civil suit had
been filed on behalf of the borrower. In the said case, it was the case of the
borrower that the sale deed, which was the subject matter of equitable

CS(OS) 49/2022 SignaturePage
 Not Verified
 11 of 22
 Digitally Signed By:AMIT
 BANSAL
 Signing Date:31.05.2022 17:48:14
 mortgage in favour of the bank, was a fraudulent document and therefore, a
nullity. Further, it was also noted that the suit had reached an advance stage
and issues had already been framed. Under these circumstances, the Court
held that the recovery proceedings should not go on till the suit is finally
decided one way or the other. The Division Bench was not dealing with a
question of maintainability of the suit in the aforesaid case. 16. Reliance has also been placed on the judgment of the Calcutta High
Court in Kaaiser Oils Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. v. Allahabad Bank & Ors.,
MANU/WB/0713/2017 , to contend that both civil suit and proceedings
before the DRT can proceed simultaneously. It is to be noted that the
aforesaid observations were made by the Calcutta High Court in the context
of recovery proceedings filed by the bank before the DRT and the recovery
proceedings filed on behalf of the plaintiff/borrower in the suit, which is not
the position in the present case. Judgments relied upon by the defendant no.5 Bank 17. On the other hand, the counsel for the defendant no.5 Bank has placed
reliance on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation. of India Ltd. v. Grapco Industries Ltd. & Ors. ,
(1999) 4 SCC 710, to contend that sufficient powers have been vested on the
DRT under Section 22 of the Recovery of Debts and Bankruptcy Act, 1993
(RDB Act) and therefore, the matters which fall under the jurisdiction of the
DRT cannot be entertained by the civil court. Section 22 of the RDB Act is
set out below: 1[(4)For the purpose of proof of any entry in the „bankers books‟,
 the provisions of the Bankers‟ Books Evidence Act, 1891 (18 of

CS(OS) 49/2022 SignaturePage
 Not Verified
 13 of 22
 Digitally Signed By:AMIT
 BANSAL
 Signing Date:31.05.2022 17:48:14
 1891) shall apply to all the proceedings before the Tribunal or
 Appellate Tribunal.]" which a DRT or an Appellate Tribunal is empowered by or

CS(OS) 49/2022 SignaturePage
 Not Verified
 14 of 22
 Digitally Signed By:AMIT
 BANSAL
 Signing Date:31.05.2022 17:48:14
 under the Securitisation Act to determine. The expression 'in
 respect of any matter' referred to in Section 34 would take in the
 "measures" provided under Sub-section (4) of Section 13 of the
 Securitisation Act. Consequently if any aggrieved person has got
 any grievance against any "measures" taken by the borrower
 under Sub-section (4) of Section 13 , the remedy open to him is to
 approach the DRT or the Appellate Tribunal and not the civil
 court. Civil Court in such circumstances has no jurisdiction to
 entertain any suit or proceedings in respect of those matters
 which fall under Sub-section (4) of Section 13 of the
 Securitisation Act because those matters fell within the
 jurisdiction of the DRT and the Appellate Tribunal. Further, Section 35 says, the Securitisation Act overrides other laws, if
 they are inconsistent with the provisions of that Act, which takes
 in Section 9 Code of Civil Procedure as well." ix. 19. Next, reliance has been placed on behalf of the defendant no.5 Bank
on the judgment of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court in V.
Thulasi v. Indian Overseas Bank, 2011 SCC OnLine Mad 670. In the said
case, the main contention on behalf of the borrower was that where there is a
dispute with regard to creation of security interest in favour of the creditor,
this would not go within the purview of the DRT and therefore, the Civil
Court has jurisdiction to adjudicate the same. Reliance was placed on the
judgments in Mardia Chemicals (supra) and Nahar Industrial (supra) on
behalf of the borrower. The Division Bench observed that the judgment in Nahar Industrial (supra) would have no application in the facts of the said
case and therefore, it was observed that the said case would not fall within
the exceptions laid down in Mardia Chemicals (supra). Relevant
observations of the Division Bench are set out below: Therefore, the Courts have a greater responsibility to scan
 the pleadings and see if the allegations of fraud and
 collusion made in the Plaint are actually a product of fraud
 and collusion between the borrowers and those making such
 claims." We fully endorse the above views of the learned Single
 Judge. 30. In the present case, Plaintiffs seek for a declaration that the
 alleged guarantee created in the Plaintiff's name for the loan
 advanced to the 1st Defendant is null and void and seeks for
 permanent injunction restraining the Defendants from
 proceeding against the Plaintiff or the plaint schedule property.
 The Plaintiff has brought out the averments in the Plaint to bring
 the Suit within the purview of the exception carved out by the
 Supreme Court in Mardia Chemicals Ltd. v. Union of India , 2004
 (2) CTC 759 (SC) : 2004 (4) SCC 311. In determining whether
 such a plea has to be accepted, the Plaint as a whole has to be
 read. In Popat and Kotecha v. State Bank of India Staff
 Association , 2005 (4) CTC 489 : 2005 (7) SCC 510, the Supreme
 Court held that Plaint averments cannot be compartmentalised
 or dissected, nor can the averments be read in isolation. As
 pointed out earlier, the limited exception, which is carved out by
 the Supreme Court, is whether the action of the secured creditor

CS(OS) 49/2022 SignaturePage
 Not Verified
 17 of 22
 Digitally Signed By:AMIT
 BANSAL
 Signing Date:31.05.2022 17:48:14
 is so absurd and untenable that it would not require any probe,
 what so ever. 31. As held by the Supreme Court, the pleadings in an action for
 restraining a sale by a mortgagee must "clearly disclose a fraud
 or irregularity on the basis of which the relief is sought. The
 observations of the Supreme Court in Mardia Chemicals
 Ltd. v. Union of India , 2004 (2) CTC 759 (SC) : 2004 (4) SCC
 311, emphasized that the exception, which is carved out is a
 limited exception. Like all exceptions, the exception carved out by
 the Supreme Court has to be strictly construed. A borrower or a
 third party cannot be permitted to defeat the provisions of the Act
 merely by alleging the "gross misuse of the trust reposed" and
 "misuse of the documents executed by the Plaintiff. The above
 expressions used in the Plaint cannot be compartmentalised and
 read in isolation. The Plaint has to be read as a whole along with
 the documents produced by the Plaintiff. Considering the Plaint
 averments, we are of the view that the learned Single Judge
 rightly held that in view of the specific bar under Section 34 of
 SARFAESI Act, the Civil Suit filed by the Plaintiff is barred." x. xi. 20. Next, reliance has also been placed on behalf of the defendant no.5
Bank on the judgment of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in HDFC
Bank v. K. International MANU/PH/1210/2012. The Court, while taking
note of the judgments in Mardia Chemicals (supra) and Nahar Industrial (supra), rejected the pleas of fraud and misrepresentation on the ground that
the document in question was signed on behalf of the plaintiff/borrower. The
SLP (C) No.31343/2012 against the aforesaid judgment was dismissed by
the Supreme Court vide order dated 16th December, 2016, by holding that
the defense taken by the borrower of not having signed the agreement
could be considered by the DRT. 21. Now, I propose to examine the facts of the present case in light of the
aforesaid judgments. A reading of the plaint would disclose that the plaintiff
CS(OS) 49/2022 SignaturePage
 Not Verified
 18 of 22
 Digitally Signed By:AMIT
 BANSAL
 Signing Date:31.05.2022 17:48:14
 had voluntarily mortgaged her property with the Standard Chartered Bank,
in order to avail financial facilities in respect of the defendant no.4
company. It is also stated in the plaint that at the behest of the defendant
no.2, the plaintiff signed blank loan application forms of the defendant no.5
Bank. It does not stand to reason that the plaintiff admits signing of the loan
application form of the defendant No.5 Bank, but at the same time denies
the creation of security interest in favour of the defendant No.5 Bank. 22. A holistic reading of the plaint would disclose that the fraud, if any,
committed upon the plaintiff was by the defendants no.2 and 3. It was the
defendants no.2 and 3, who were the business partners of the plaintiff, and
who approached the plaintiff to avail financial assistance from the defendant
no.5 Bank and took the loan for the defendant no. 4 company and defendant
no.1 company. 23. Though, in the plaint, the plaintiff has made allegations of forgery
against the defendants no.2 and 3 in collusion with the officials of the
defendant no.5 Bank, it may be noted that the initial police complaint filed
by the plaintiff on 6th August, 2019, was only against the defendants no.2
and 3 and not against the officials of the defendant no.5 Bank. Therefore, the
allegation of fraud and collusion against the officials of the defendant no.5
Bank were in the nature of an afterthought. The pleadings of fraud and
collusion against the defendant no.5 Bank have only been made, so as to
cover the case within the exception provided in Mardia Chemicals (supra).
In my prima facie view, there is nothing to substantiate the pleadings of
fraud and/or forgery against the officials of the defendant no.5 Bank. A
reading of Mardia Chemicals (supra) would show that only cases for which

CS(OS) 49/2022 SignaturePage
 Not Verified
 19 of 22
 Digitally Signed By:AMIT
 BANSAL
 Signing Date:31.05.2022 17:48:14
 an exception has been carved out is where the action of the secured creditor
has been fraudulent or so absurd or untenable. Therefore, in my view, the
present case will not fall within the exception provided in Mardia
Chemicals (supra). Further, as noted above, the judgments in Nahar
Industrial (supra), Ashok Kumar Raizada (supra), Gurdeep Singh (supra)
and Kaaiser Oils (supra), were in a totally different factual context and
therefore, the same would not be applicable in the facts and circumstances
of the present case. 24. On the other hand, the facts in the present case are almost identical to
the facts in V.Thulasi (supra). In the said case also, the contention of the
borrower was that there was a dispute with regard to creation of security
interest in favour of the secured creditor. The observations of the Madras
High Court in the said case as set out above, would be squarely applicable to
the facts of the present case. Through clever drafting, the plaintiff has sought
to cover her case in terms of the exception in Mardia Chemicals (supra),
which cannot be permitted. A meaningful reading of the plaint reveals that
fraud, if any, has been committed against the plaintiff by the defendants no.2
and 3. 25. It is an admitted position that the plaintiff has filed an application
under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act, before the DRT claiming similar
reliefs and in fact, an ad interim stay had also been granted in favour of the
plaintiff by the DRT. Yet, the plaintiff has chosen to continue with the
proceedings in the present suit. Clearly, the plaintiff cannot be entitled to
invoke two parallel remedies simultaneously for same set of reliefs. I do not
agree with the submission made on behalf of the plaintiff that the scope of

CS(OS) 49/2022 SignaturePage
 Not Verified
 20 of 22
 Digitally Signed By:AMIT
 BANSAL
 Signing Date:31.05.2022 17:48:14
 two proceedings is different and therefore, the proceedings before the DRT
and this Court, can continue simultaneously. This view is fortified by the
observations of the Supreme Court in Jagdish Singh (supra). The judgment
of the Calcutta High Court in Kaaiser Oils (supra) was in a totally different
context, where the borrower had also filed recovery proceedings against the
bank. 26. Filing of the proceedings before the DRT show that the plaintiff was
well aware of her legal remedies and therefore, she had approached the DRT
under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. As noted by the Supreme Court in Industrial Credit (supra), sufficient powers have been vested with the DRT
to decide all issues including the defence taken by the plaintiff, of not
having signed the loan documents. Therefore, the jurisdiction of DRT is
wider than that of a civil court. 27. In light of the above, I am of the prima facie view that the present suit
filed on behalf of the plaintiff, is not covered under the exception provided
in Mardia Chemicals (supra) and is therefore, not maintainable. I am also of
the prima facie view that in the facts and circumstances of the present case,
the plaintiff cannot simultaneously pursue the present suit as well as the
remedy under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. The DRT is already seized
of the proceedings filed on behalf of the plaintiff under Section 17 of the
SARFAESI Act. Therefore, no irreparable harm or injury would be caused
to the plaintiff. 28. In view of the discussion above, I am not inclined to allow the present
application for the grant of interim relief. Dismissed. 29. The deposit of Rs.20,00,000/- made by the plaintiff before this Court
shall be subject to the orders that may be passed by the DRT in the S.A. No.
21/2022. 30. Needless to state, the observations made herein would not come in the
way of the DRT considering on merits the application filed on behalf of the
plaintiff under section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. AMIT BANSAL, J.