V. KAMESWAR RAO, J

 W.P.(C) 9864/2017 1. This petition has been filed by M/s Stelling Technologies Pvt.

 Ltd., which operates the website known as Railyatri.in. 2. There are two petitioners in this writ petition. It is the case of the

 petitioners that petitioner No.1 is an e-commerce entity providing digital

 platform services to act as a facilitator between e-ticket booking

 passenger and authorized Retail Service Providers (hereinafter referred

 to as RSPs). Petitioner no.2 is a shareholder of petitioner no.1. It is

 stated by the petitioners that petitioner No.1 is not in the business of

 actually booking railway tickets. It is their case that petitioner No.1

 hosts a website called "RailYatri.in" and a related phone app. It is with

 the help of this digital platform that the petitioner No.1 provide what is

 called an e-market place for potential buyers, i.e., train travelers and

 sellers to come together for ticket booking. It is their case that on the

 digital platform potential buyers of products and services amongst them

 those seeking to book railway e-tickets from the authorized RSPs get in

 touch with legitimate third party / sellers / vendors and RSPs who have W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 4 of 99 voluntarily and contractually associated with petitioner no.1 on the said

 digital platform including the service of booking e-tickets through the

 respondent IRCTC‟s booking engine / interface after following all extent

 rules of the respondent. It is stated that the RSPs have contractually

 warranted to the petitioners for such contractual relation. 3. It is stated that the respondent (IRCTC) enjoy a monopolistic

 position for issuing railway e-tickets. Pursuant to which it has floated

 various schemes for their sale. Under one such scheme, which is B2B

 Scheme, the respondent has appointed several Principal Service

 Providers (hereinafter referred to as PSPs) for the purpose of booking

 railway tickets on its web portal. Each PSPs would in turn have several

 hundred agents working under it as Retail Service Providers (for short

 „RSPs‟). These RSPs, for the purpose of booking railway e-tickets on

 the respondent‟s (IRCTC) booking engine / interface, are provided a

 unique identification number and a dongle which is their access

 credential to the said booking engine / interface. The RSPs are required

 to follow certain rules and regulations as mandated by the respondent

 (IRCTC) in relation to this activity. 4. The petitioner No.1 having set up its digital platform somewhere

 in the year 2015 entered into contractual agreements with several RSPs

 in 2017 governing the use of its digital platforms and the service to be W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 5 of 99 provided by the contracting parties thereto, i.e., RSPs. It is stated that

 the said agreements contained specific clauses ensuring compliance with

 IRCTC‟s rules and regulations about payments and adherence to RBI‟s

 notifications governing digital payments. It was agreed therein that

 every potential e-ticket booking rail traveler (customer) using petitioner

 No.1‟s digital platform would be directed to the RSPs for them to book

 the said e-ticket using authorized booking credential / access code only

 through the respondent‟s booking engine / interface. 5. It was on June 19, 2017, that a complaint was filed with the

 Deputy Commissioner of Police, Railways and Crime, Delhi ostensibly

 on charge of the petitioner No.1 carrying on illegal booking and

 providing meals in trains. The said complaint is said to be presently

 subject matter of CS (OS) 519/2017 filed by the respondent (IRCTC)

 against the petitioner. On July 27, 2017, the respondent (IRCTC) also

 filed a complaint with the Cyber Crime Cell, Delhi Police bearing DD

 No. 675 alleging therein that the petitioner No.1 was involved in

 procuring e-tickets without authorization of the respondent. 6. It is stated that despite the said complaints pending, on

 August 8, 2017, 8-9 personnel of the respondent IRCTC along with a

 Sub-Inspector of Delhi Police one Mr. Ajit Singh barged into the

 petitioner‟s office in NOIDA and threatened the petitioner‟s W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 6 of 99 management with jail if they did not stop their allegedly illegal activities

 and also procured under pressure the only copy of the agreement that the

 petitioner had with one of the RSPs. It was vide letter dated August

 11, 2017 that the petitioner No.1 recorded the respondent‟s illegal and

 high-handed conduct and conveyed the same to the respondent‟s CMD

 with copies to the Minister of Railways, Minister of State for Railways,

 DG Railway Protection Force, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime

 and Railways and the Group GM and Assistant Manager of the

 respondent (IRCTC). On the same day the respondent (IRCTC) also

 issued a notice to the petitioner calling upon them to stop booking e-

 tickets and stop directing passengers to the RSPs while also claiming

 damages of `50 lacs. 7. It is stated that the respondent (IRCTC) has also complained to

 and pressurized One97 Communications Pvt. Ltd. (Paytm) to suspend

 their e-payment gateway services which were being provided to the

 petitioner No.1 following which Paytm vide its letter dated August 11,

 2017 sought a response from the petitioner No.l. The petitioner

 explained to Paytm that all the petitioner‟s business activities were

 legitimate. 8. Vide letter dated August 16, 2017, the petitioner No.1 sent a W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 7 of 99 detailed reply to the DCP Cyber Crime Cell setting out its business

 operations and showing how the petitioner‟s business activities

 surrounding the e-ticket booking services were all legitimate and within

 ambit of all laws. In response to the petitioner No.1 letter dated August

 11, 2017, the respondent (IRCTC) vide letter August 23, 2017 is said to

 have stated that its alleged illegal entry into the petitioner No.1 office in

 NOIDA on August 8, 2017 was merely a preventive check based on a

 complaint of non-refund of money against a PNR and it was during that

 check that the petitioner shared a copy of their commercial agreement

 with an RSP. It was further stated therein that no company or

 organization not registered with the respondent (IRCTC) could book e-

 tickets and therefore called upon the petitioner to provide certain

 documents. 9. It is stated that the respondent (IRCTC) unilaterally de-activated

 the access credentials of several RSPs associated with the petitioner‟s

 rail e-tickets business without affording any opportunity of being heard

 to them supposedly for booking tickets through the petitioner‟s digital

 platform. Four such RSPs having been de-activated abruptly have filed

 petitions being WP(C) nos. 8570/2017, 8562/2017, 8613/2017 and

 8598/2017 before this court and another RSP apprehending such de-

 activation filed a petition being W.P.(C) 8562/2017 seeking interim W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 8 of 99 protection against such action. It is stated that action on part of the

 respondent (IRCTC) has only resulted in loss of business reputation of

 the petitioners and has also brought great amount of suffering to

 potential passengers who would have booked tickets through these RSPs. 10. The petitioner No.1, vide counter notice dated September 5,

 2017, replied to the respondent‟s (IRCTC) letters dated August 11 and

 23 of 2017 and set out therein, its business; how the respondent (IRCTC)

 had perhaps not understood the nature of petitioner‟s business; that the

 petitioner No.1 had not violated any provisions of the Railways Act,

 1989 ; its reply to the Cyber Crime Cell and illegal pressurizing of Paytm.

 The petitioner No.1 further called upon the respondent (IRCTC) to recall

 its complaints made to the Cyber Crime Cell and Paytm, restoration of

 de-activated RSP‟s access credentials and not to issue any further threats

 or disruptive letters to any associate of the petitioner while also claiming

 damages of `2 Crores. It is also stated that sometime in October, 2017,

 the petitioner No.1 also learnt that M/s. Payworld a PSP appointed by the

 respondent IRCTC had put up a notice online stating that the petitioner‟s

 digital platforms were illegal and not authorized by the respondent

 IRCTC. The petitioners have initiated separate legal action against

 them. W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 9 of 99 11. According to the petitioners the arbitrary and illegal actions of

 the respondent (IRCTC) and the coercive steps being taken by them to

 pressurize and dismember all business associates of the petitioner No.1

 there is real likelihood that the very running of the business of the

 petitioner No.1 would be at stake. It is stated that the above mentioned

 coercive actions of the respondent IRCTC have already had the effect of

 causing serious loss to business reputation as well as financial losses and

 grave harassment to the petitioners which might ultimately even lead to

 the petitioner No.1 being forced to close down its business. 12. It is the case of the petitioners that IRCTC‟s action is in gross

 violation of the petitioner‟s fundamental rights guaranteed under Article

 14 , 19(1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution of India as they have been

 singled out for such coercive treatment whereas other digital platforms

 hosts like Google, Justdial, Sulekha, Quikr who also provide similar lead

 generating services to authorized RSPs continue to do so without

 hindrance from the respondent. According to them respondent IRCTC

 has lost sight of the fact that it, being a Government enterprise has a

 higher duty cast upon it to not act in the arbitrary manner as it has been

 alleged to have been doing. 13. It is their case that the petitioner No.1 does not stock any product

 or service but simply acts as a facilitator or a go-between entity and W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 10 of 99 through its digital platforms simply bring together a potential customer

 with a seller of the products / service, which the said potential customer

 using the petitioner‟s digital platforms may express interest in

 purchasing. The petitioner No.1 additionally provides certain value-

 added services to the customers to use its digital platforms such as

 provision of e-payment gateway facilities for which the petitioner No.1

 tied up with service providers such as Paytm, Airtelmoney etc. for

 providing such services; the petitioner No.1 charges a nominal amount

 equivalent to 1.25% of the ticket price as a convenience fee for use of its

 e-commerce market place which is also transparently and prominently

 disclosed to the said customers in the terms and conditions displayed on

 the digital platforms and also noted as a separate entry on the receipt

 issued to the customers. It is the petitioners‟ case that petitioner No.1

 being a largely foreign funded entity, it is covered by the guidelines for

 FDI in e-commerce issued vide press note - 3 dated March 29, 2016,

 issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and is therefore

 permitted to undertake all such activities as noted above. 14. It is further their case that in no condition does the RSP charge

 over and above the railway authorized ticket charge and the convenience

 fee is to the benefit of the petitioners and not the RSP which is also

 agreed to be paid by the customer. According to the petitioners it has W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 11 of 99 prominently disclaimed on its portals that it is an independent self-

 funded entity and is in no way connected with the respondent (IRCTC)

 or the Railways. The petitioner No.1 endeavours to make railway ticket

 booking and rail travel accessible easily and a pleasurable exercise for

 the masses. The services as provided through the petitioner No.1‟s

 digital platforms cater to real needs of train travelers, wherein they get

 access to genuine e-ticket booking agents, real time train position,

 likelihood of a wait-listed ticket getting confirmed, facilities available in

 and around railway station, hotel rooms, taxi and bus booking facilitation

 etc. and also providing their digital platforms to book online food and

 other articles from the petitioner‟s associated vendors. 15. The petitioners‟ business model helps potential rail travelers find

 genuine authorized agents (RSPs) who can assist in booking the rail

 tickets in a quick, efficient and transparent manner while also protecting

 them from being overcharged, from the comfort of their homes. The

 petitioner‟s website and mobile application are stated to have been

 designed in such a manner that any potential traveler may even be

 connected to an RSP having the preferred language skills as preferred by

 the customer. The traveler is put in touch with such RSP through mobile

 phone which is also stated to be the preferred mode by a large number of

 travelers who may otherwise be unable or unwilling to undertake a W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 12 of 99 purely online transaction. 16. It is their case that the petitioner No.1 conducts its business

 strictly in compliance with the extent rules and regulations set in place

 by the respondent IRCTC as well as by other Govt. / regulatory entities.

 They ensure digital safety and security of all their customers by

 following all RBI regulations in relation to online payment services. It

 is stated that the RSPs follow a strict protocol while issuing Electronic

 Reservation Slip to the customers which conforms to prescribed IRCTC

 format. In other words, there is no difference between the manner in

 which the RSPs book e-ticket, whether for physical walk-in customers or

 for customers that are directed to the RSPs through the petitioner‟s

 digital platforms. 17. It is further stated that the RSPs using the petitioner No.1‟s

 digital platform never solicit the customer as is prohibited by the

 respondent‟s rules. It is only the potential ticket purchaser who on

 expressing interest to purchase a railway ticket is directed through the

 petitioner‟s platform to contact the authorized RSPs, who are associated

 with the petitioner No.1. The booking procedure as followed by the

 petitioner No.1 is that when contacted by a potential customer, the RSP

 confirms the availability of the ticket sought for and upon confirmation

 by the passenger books the same using its own access credential on the W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 13 of 99 respondent‟s booking engine / interface. The petitioner No.1 does not

 book any ticket but merely facilitates such booking and payment

 therefor. The petitioner No.1 charges a nominal "market access fee" on

 the tickets so purchased and in case of cancellation, the cancellation

 charge as stipulated by the respondent IRCTC is refunded to the

 customer. 18. It is their case that action of respondent (IRCTC), as noted above

 smacks of arbitrariness, malafides and high-handedness apart from being

 illegal and have caused grave loss both of reputation and money to the

 petitioners. The loss of business reputation is not only limited amongst

 its associates but also among the large number of consumers, who use

 the petitioner No.1‟s platform. Nowhere in any of the respondent‟s

 rules is a RSP prohibited from using his own initiative and enterprise to

 expand his business by seeking legitimate lead generating avenues. 19. According to the petitioners the respondent has failed to see the

 public good done by them and is acting as if all aspects of railway ticket

 booking howsoever remote they may be from the respondent‟s mandate

 under the MOU entered into with the Ministry of Railways are its

 personal fiefdom and is intimidating and bullying the petitioners. 20. In the affidavits dated November 10, 2017 the petitioners have

 mentioned cases of certain RSPs associated with them that have been W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 14 of 99 targeted by the respondent on several grounds mainly (i) booking

 through unauthorized website / app Railyatri.in and (ii) sharing ID

 credentials with Railyatri.in and consequently their respective accounts

 have been de-activated. It is also stated that no show cause notice was

 issued to any of the RSPs prior to such action. 21. The petitioners have additionally filed an affidavit dated

 November 14, 2017 wherein case of Mr. Deepak Suri, an RSP operating

 under the RSP, ITZ Cash has been brought to light. It is stated that the

 said RSP has already filed W.P. (C) 8625/2017 before this court wherein

 an interim order dated September 25, 2017 was passed whereby he was

 protected against de-activation by the respondent. It is stated that on

 October 9, 2017, the said RSP received a ticket booking enquiry through

 the petitioner No.1‟s website from one Mr. Vishal Singh. An Electronic

 Requisition Slip was electronically filled out and electronically signed by

 him and accordingly, a ticket was booked and sent to the customer.

 Additionally, the said RSP also asked the customer to provide a copy of

 his ID proof via e-mail. Despite efforts, the said RSP could not obtain a

 copy of the customer‟s valid ID. It is stated that said customer was only a

 decoy and a ploy of the respondent IRCTC with an ulterior motive of

 leading the said RSP into violating one of the rules of the ticket booking

 policy whereby RSPs are mandated to maintain customer IDs. It is W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 15 of 99 stated that nowhere in any of the respondent‟s policies is it mandated

 that a ticket would be supplied by an agent only on production of an ID

 proof by the concerned passenger. It is stated that following the inability

 of the RSP to maintain the said customer‟s ID, his access credentials

 were de-activated w.e.f November 9, 2017. This action of the

 respondent according to the petitioner is in clear violation of the

 undertaking given and recorded in this court‟s order dated September 25,

 2017. Further on November 13, 2017, another RSP associated with the

 petitioners namely Ms. Annu Kumari has been blacklisted and prevented

 from accessing her booking account seemingly on similar grounds. An

 RTI query was filed with the respondent by another RSP namely Ms.

 Geetika Suri asking about the specific rule that prohibits an RSP from

 booking tickets for online customer. In response dated September 22,

 2017, the respondent has stated that an RSP can only "book ticket in the

 normal flow in which customer will physically approach at the outlet of

 the RSP and RSP should maintain the written / electronic requisition slip

 at their outlet and copy of ID proof of the customer is to be kept for six

 months". A further follow up RTI query regarding specific rule

 prohibiting a customer from booking a ticket with an RSP without

 actually being physically present evoked the response that "ticket can

 only be booked when customer approaches". It is stated that no such W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 16 of 99 specific rule exists whereby a customer is mandated to approach the

 concerned RSP physically. 22. In the affidavit dated December 22, 2017, the petitioners have

 brought to light similar cases of other RSPs whose accounts have been

 de-activated on one pretext or the other by the respondent / IRCTC.

 Counteraffidavit by IRCTC 23. The case of the Respondent IRCTC in its counter-affidavit is that

 it is a wholly owned Public Sector Enterprise of the Indian Railways

 which operates Railways in India and permits carriage of passengers on

 the railway trains by way of licence issued to them in the form of railway

 tickets as prescribed in Chapter-VIII of the Railways Act, 1989 . The

 respondent managed e-commerce business on behalf of the Ministry of

 Railways and has been given the mandate to issue e-ticket / i-ticket

 through its e-commerce website. It is stated that for the said purpose the

 respondent has set up its web portal, i.e., irctc.co.in which is in addition

 to the physical counters which are still operated by the Railways. It is

 stated that the petitioner No.1 does not offer any independent e-ticket to

 passengers through its platform due to lack of an independent

 relationship with the Ministry of Railways but seeks to sell the

 respondent‟s property, i.e., e-tickets owned by the respondent IRCTC

 from its website by charging an additional fee from the passengers. It is W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 17 of 99 pointed out that the petitioner No.1 has not obtained any permission

 from the respondent IRCTC to book / sell its e-tickets. 24. According to the respondent it does not owe any public or

 statutory duty towards the petitioners arising out of any previous

 commercial relationship and therefore the present writ petition is not

 maintainable for lack of an underlying foundation in law to maintain an

 action under Article 226 of the Constitution. Further, locus standi of the

 petitioners to challenge the respondent‟s action in safeguarding its own

 property from third parties is challenged. It is also stated that the facts

 as averred in the writ petition are highly disputed in nature and can be

 tested only by way of evidence in appropriate proceedings and the same

 cannot be determined in proceedings under Article 226. 25. The respondent is stated to have entered into an MOU with the

 Railways for carrying out certain functions as noted above and with the

 employment of advanced technologies, the respondent has expanded its

 operations to provide more ways and means for booking a railway ticket

 to members of the public. For the said purpose respondent has put in

 place various business models through the following three schemes: 26. It is stated that according to the respondent‟s rules and

 regulations and contractual stipulations as referred to above, a PSP / RSP

 cannot share his ID (access credentials) with any third person as this is

 essential to maintain the integrity of the system being operated by the

 respondent as well as to prevent misuse of any confidential information

 to the benefit / advantage of any third party. This is in light of the fact

 that the respondent‟s website is connected to Indian Railways

 Information System maintained by CRIS (Central Railway Information

 System) which is confidential in nature. 27. Access to the respondent‟s website is given by a PSP to an RSP

 under a separate agreement but with the essential condition remaining

 that a PSP has to ensure that all activities of an RSP are also within the

 ambit of the principal grant by the respondent to the PSP as well as in

 compliance with the Railways Act, 1989 and various commercial

 circulars issued by the Railway Board. As such a PSP is bound under the

 agreement to control the activities of its RSPs. RSPs associated with the

 respondent‟s website through a PSP are required to follow certain

 mechanism for booking tickets, which includes accepting and

 maintaining electronic requests alongwith copy of ID proof from

 customers for both booking and cancellation of tickets. An RSP is

 further required to issue an Electronic Reservation Slip (ERS) according

 to the prescribed format; a receipt for the amount collected from the

 customer on its own stationery (including the railway fare); IRCTC

 service charges; agent service charges; and payment gateway charges

 etc. 28. It is stated that a complaint was received on the twitter handle of

 the then Railway Minister from one Mr. Raj Kumar Gupta who claimed

 to have booked a ticket from the petitioner‟s app, but a refund for the

 same had not been received back upon cancellation despite a significant

 period having been passed. Upon enquiry the respondent found that the W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 20 of 99 said ticket had been booked by an RSP M/s. Sahara Tours and Travels

 Hub registered in the name of Mr. Vijay Tiwary and registered with the

 PSP M/s. G.I. Technology Pvt. Ltd. It was further found that the said

 RSP was sharing its access credentials with the petitioner for the purpose

 of booking tickets. Consequently in accordance with e-ticketing service

 provider policy a penalty was imposed upon the PSP for sharing access

 credentials with the petitioner and for the non-refund of cancellation

 amount to the customer by its RSP. It was at this stage that the

 respondent became aware of the misappropriation of its property by the

 petitioner in collusion with several RSPs. 29. It is stated that the respondent conducted a check of the ticket

 booking process flow on Railyatri.in and a ticket was booked on its

 website by respondent‟s team. During further investigation by the

 respondent‟s anti-fraud team several instances of misuse of access

 credential by various RSPs came to surface and the natural step of

 safeguarding its own property was carried out by the respondent, i.e., de-

 activation of IDs (access credentials) of various RSPs. In this context, it

 is the respondent‟s case that all concerned PSPs have accepted the

 penalty as imposed and have also deposited the same. 30. A preventive check is stated to have been carried out by the

 respondent along with CIB/RPF, Delhi (E) on August 8, 2017 at the W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 21 of 99 petitioner‟s office on the basis of complaint of non-refund of

 cancellation amount against a booked ticket. Subsequently a notice was

 issued to the petitioner on August 23, 2017 asking it to stop the

 unauthorized service immediately. A complaint was also lodged with

 the Cyber Crime Cell, New Delhi. 31. It is stated that the petitioner No.1 itself is unauthorized for

 conducting the e-ticketing business and therefore all the content

 displayed on its digital platform is without permission of the railways

 and the respondent. The petitioner is therefore stated to be deriving

 undue commercial gains and benefits from property of the respondent.

 The information as used and displayed are the sole property of Indian

 Railways and the respondent and use without any prior permission

 amounts to misinterpretation / fraud and overcharging to the customer.

 Further, information regarding rail e-tickets given on the petitioner‟s

 platforms is false and misleading and in such eventualities the

 respondent becomes responsible to address the customer‟s complaints.

 The respondent‟s action of imposing penalty on PSP and de-activation of

 RSP‟s IDs is stated to have been taken to avoid situations of non-refund

 cases to customers and safeguard interest of the respondent / railways. 32. The average cost of a ticket is said to be `1,200/- and on a daily W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 22 of 99 basis 20-25% of e-tickets are said to be cancelled which leads to the

 involvement of a huge amount of money which has to be refunded to the

 customers. Significant finances are at the disposal of RSPs and other

 agents booking on behalf of the respondent and therefore the chances of

 fraud in case of unauthorized agencies getting involved in collection of

 money for ticket booking process and non-refunding in case of

 cancellation are enormous. Since the respondent is currently responsible

 for the e-ticket booking process, the action of permitting an unauthorized

 agency to accept money from the customer would tantamount to fraud

 being played on member of unsuspecting public. Non refund of

 concession amount at a large scale would lead to serious financial fraud

 the magnitude of which would only surface at a later stage when a large

 number of customers have been cheated of their money. 33. Reliance is placed on Section 143 of the Railways Act, 1989 to

 state that all activities pertaining to sale of railway tickets including the

 activities of procuring and supplying them is barred and consequently

 any arrangement providing for procurement of railway tickets would also

 be illegal. According to the respondent, the petitioners business model

 even as contended by them would be barred as is expressly covered by

 the said provision. It is the case of the respondent that it would be

 incorrect to state that the petitioner is merely providing a digital platform W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 23 of 99 to facilitate market place based e-commerce business activity and is in

 no way involved in the business of actual booking of railway tickets.

 According to the respondent, the petitioner provides for railway tickets

 to be booked on its website as opposed to the booking being done by a

 potential passenger with the concerned RSP independently. Further, a

 potential customer is required to call a landline number which is

 maintained by the petitioner and after giving the necessary details he has

 to make a decision based on ticket availability and price information as

 collected by the petitioner No.1 and not by an authorized RSP.

 Moreover, the booking confirmation for the concerned ticket is also

 issued by the petitioner via email and SMS and not by the concerned

 RSP; the entire commercial activity right from advertising its business of

 booking tickets to actually selling it to a potential customer and the

 consequent collection of consideration for the sale is also being done by

 the petitioner. It is in light of these facts that the respondent states that

 the activity of booking a railway ticket is actually being outsourced by

 the concerned RSP to the petitioner which is completely impermissible

 under the extent of Rules and Regulations. 34. It is stated that RSPs are not permitted or authorized to associate

 engage or interact with any third party or for dealing, transacting or

 selling the respondent‟s property i.e. e-tickets and any contractual W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 24 of 99 relation entered into with regard to such activities would be void ab

 initio and illegal. It is further stated that the petitioner is also offering

 certain value added services without having obtained due permissions

 and authorization from Indian Railways or the respondents namely live

 train status, PNR status, confirmation chance, live arrival / departure and

 seat availability etc. According to the respondent, such information is

 based on dynamic data depending on the number of tickets booked or

 cancelled all over India on an hour to hour basis and accurate data in this

 regard cannot be provided without having access to either the railway

 information system or the respondent website. The petitioner is also

 stated to be overcharging the customers using the nomenclature

 „convenience fee‟ which is over and beyond the maximum permissible

 fee as has been fixed by Ministry of Railways. Yet another activity that

 is stated to be illegally carried out by the petitioner No.1 is the delivery

 of food items to passengers in train compartments and railway platforms

 which activity cannot be undertaken without having obtained due

 permission from the railways in the form of license for utilization / usage

 of their sole and exclusive property. 35. It is stated that the petitioner‟s business model is completely

 illegal being entirely based on using the respondent‟s property and the

 said activity is in direct competition with the respondents business W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 25 of 99 activities causing serious loss to them and other PSPs who have entered

 into commercial arrangements with them having paid valuable

 consideration for the same. Moreover, the petitioners activity is also

 stated to deceive members of the general public by creating an

 impression that such activities are being carried out with prior

 permission and sanction of the railways and respondents. The

 respondent has put in place B2B, B2C, and its own website

 IRCTC.CO.IN to cater to such segment of customers who would want to

 book e-tickets without having to physically go to a railway station or a

 retail outlet. According to the respondent, the fact that the petitioner is

 conducting its activity through a website while in compliance with extent

 RBI Regulations relating to online payments would not confer any

 legitimacy on its operations and it would still amount to usurping and

 misappropriating the respondent‟s property as also the enormous

 goodwill generated by them. 36. The respondent is stated to have taken only necessary steps to

 safeguard its own property as well as to protect its financial interests by

 taking such actions including deactivation of credentials of RSPs, who

 were found to have been indulging in activities as noted above. It is

 stated that the respondent does not have any direct contractual

 relationship with an RSP and therefore, the question of an RSP being W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 26 of 99 mandated to maintain a minimum balance with the respondent would not

 arise in any manner. Certain financial arrangements for the purpose of

 facilitating booking of e-tickets do exists between the respondent and a

 PSP in terms of the commercial contracts entered into between them.

 However, the same cannot be read to mean that the respondent would

 also be privy to the financial arrangements exiting between a PSP and its

 RSP. It is further denied that the respondent has pressurized any

 payment gateway service provider into discontinuing its services as

 provided to the petitioner. 37. In conclusion it is stated that during the pendency of present writ

 petition, the respondent through the course of its investigations has found

 evidence of illegal activities as referred to above on part of several RSPs

 and appropriate action has also been initiated against them.

 Rejoinder 38. The petitioners have filed rejoinder affidavit on February 22,

 2018 wherein it is stated that a railway ticket does not constitute

 „property‟ of the respondent in any manner and it is merely a license

 issued by the railways, and not the respondent, to travel on a train. It is

 further pointed out that in terms of the MOU entered into between the

 respondent and the railways more particularly Commercial Circular No.

 73/2001, the respondent is, amongst others the promoter and facilitator W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 27 of 99 for IT related ticketing services. It is reiterated that the petitioner No.1 is

 in no manner involved in the business of procurement and supply of

 railway ticket in any manner and is in fact an e-commerce market place

 facilitator providing a platform for a prospective traveler and a ticket

 booking agent to get in touch and that such activity can not fall within

 the ambit of Section 143 of the Railways Act, 1989 in any manner. It is

 stated that the actual booking of the ticket in every condition happens

 only on the respondent‟s website / portal. 39. It is their case that there are no disputed questions of facts

 involved and the only legal issue that remains to be determined is

 whether the respondent could arbitrary deactivate access credentials of

 any of the RSPs associated with it without having first given them an

 opportunity to make their case, thereby crippling the petitioner‟s e-

 commerce business even when there has been no express violation of

 any prevailing law, Rule or Regulation. 40. According to the petitioners rather than hindering business of the

 respondent it is in fact widening the reach and availability of railway

 tickets to all sections of society even in places where there are no brick

 and mortar ticket outlets or places without access to internet. Moreover,

 the petitioner No.1‟s services assist those who may not be tech savvy or

 even educated and ultimately it is the revenue of the respondent that is W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 28 of 99 optimized as more genuine passengers are booking tickets by connecting

 with the respondent‟s authorized agents. The petitioners have further

 denied that there is any sharing of access credential with any of the RSPs

 or that there is any improper access or use of the respondent‟s website.

 The petitioners further state that despite repeated allegations of the same,

 the respondent has failed to ever reveal or prove the manner in which

 such unauthorized sharing of access has been done. In any case, it is

 stated that the petitioner would not require sharing of subject access

 credential as only the initial interaction takes place between them and a

 prospective customer / the purchaser is directed to an RSP. The RSP is

 stated to provide its services to a customer directed through the petitioner

 much in the same way as it does to one who approaches it directly. The

 petitioner is merely a „lead‟ generating service engaged by an RSP. 41. In response to the instances of violations of the respondent‟s

 Rules and Regulations by various RSPs the petitioners state that as on

 date more than 97% of the refunds are processed by RSPs and paid

 through the petitioner‟s platform within 24 hours of cancellation as

 opposed to two / three days taken by the respondent IRCTC itself. The

 petitioners state that it has clearly mentioned on its website that it is not

 associated in any manner with the respondent and further that

 prospective customers would be liable to pay a „convenience fee‟ over W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 29 of 99 and above the cost of the ticket. The respondent is therefore, seeking to

 justify its illegal and arbitrary action against the petitioner and the RSPs

 under the guise of suspicion and scare mongering without there actually

 being a violation of any terms / conditions / rules or law. 42. The petitioners further deny that prospective customers are

 required to call a landline phone number maintained by them. It is stated

 that the petitioner in fact provide a virtual cloud telephony PBX service

 for the benefit of RSPs to automatically connect incoming call from a

 potential customer. Therefore, a call made by a customer is never

 handled by the petitioner but is in fact automatically routed to any RSP

 that might be available at the given time. Further, the ticket confirmation

 / status messages as sent by the petitioner are in addition to those sent by

 the respondent. Merely because payment facility, call Centre, telephony

 services or hosting of the product for sale is handled by an intermediary

 it cannot mean that it is the intermediary that has sold the product itself.

 As regards the averment of the respondent that provision of accurate data

 with regard to live train status, booking confirmation chances etc. is

 based on dynamic data which can be obtained only with access to

 railway information systems or the respondent‟s own network, it is the

 petitioners case that such information is provided, based on

 mathematical probability algorithms which have further been refined by W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 30 of 99 the petitioner by using techniques such as artificial intelligence and

 machine learning. 43. The petitioners state that the respondent is presuming the

 existence of a monopoly in its favour and by the impugned actions seeks

 to crush all competition. Moreover, once an RSP is blocked /

 deactivated / blacklisted it automatically results in money of the RSP

 also being blocked and frozen indefinitely. RSPs are nothing but sub

 agents of the respondent and this is in nature of an agency coupled with

 the subject matter which cannot be terminated to the prejudice of the sub

 agent in terms of the Section 202 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. The

 petitioner further refers to Annexure P-12 which is a legal notice dated

 August 11, 2017 sent by paytm to the petitioner wherein the

 respondent‟s role is clearly spelled out. W.P.(C) 8562/2017, W.P.(C) 8570/2017, W.P.(C) 8598/2017, W.P.(C)
 8613/2017 and W.P.(C) 8625/2017 44. W.P.(C) 8562/2017, W.P.(C) 8570/2017, W.P.(C) 8598/2017,

 W.P.(C) 8613/2017, and W.P.(C) 8625/2017 have been filed by RSPs

 associated with RailYatri.in (Stelling Technologies), whose RSP

 agencies (and related access credentials) have either been terminated /

 suspended, or are apprehending such action on part of IRCTC. The

 petitioners are all similarly placed, except for the fact that the petitioner W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 31 of 99 in W.P.(C) 8625/2017, i.e. Mr. Deepak Suri has approached this Court

 apprehending such action, while the petitioner in all other petitions have

 already been deactivated. For the purpose of convenience, and as agreed

 to by all counsels appearing, Mr. Deepak Suri‟s petition is treated as the

 lead matter, in the cases pertaining to RSPs. W.P.(C) 8625/2017 45. The petitioner herein is an RSP duly appointed by M/s

 Interactive Tradex Pvt. Ltd. respondent No.2 (a PSP) since August 2017

 and is involved in the business providing e-ticket booking services. The

 respondent No.2 is a PSP under an agreement with the respondent No.1

 in terms of its B2B scheme for the said purpose. The respondent No.3

 herein is the petitioner No.1 in W.P.(C) 9864/2017, it is stated that in

 September 2016 the petitioner and the respondent No.3 entered into an

 agreement whereby the respondent No.3 was to assist the petitioner in its

 e-ticketing business and was to direct any enquires in that regard to the

 petitioner. Consequent thereto, the petitioner was to directly book

 railway tickets for concerned passengers according to their need and

 specifications. Respondent No. 3 is stated to simply bring together

 proposed sellers and purchaser of products, and in the instant case, the

 booking of e-tickets by a passenger, with a duly authorized e-ticketing

 agent, such as the petitioner herein. Respondent No. 3 also additionally W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 32 of 99 provides support services on its digital platforms, such as logistics and

 payment collection. The respondent No.3 is therefore stated to be merely

 a facilitator of business while not actually involved in the ticket booking

 process. 46. It is stated that under the aforesaid B2B scheme, the respondent

 IRCTC appoints certain PSPs who in turn have to pay a sum of `25 Lacs

 for such appointment along with an annual deposit of `6.25 Lacs. The

 PSP may in turn further appoint 250 to 500 RSPs who also deposit

 amounts varying from `6,000/- to `10,000/- for such appointment. The

 contractual relationship as existing between the PSP and respondent

 IRCTC also mandates that the PSP has to ensure that all RSPs appointed

 by it must follow all the extent rules and regulations and commercial

 circulars issued by the respondent No.1 and the Ministry of Railways.

 As such there is no direct privity of contract between respondent No.1

 and an RSP such as the petitioner herein. It is stated that even though

 the subject Rules provide for a show cause notice to be issued for an

 irregularity, the same are quiet as to whom the said notice was to be

 issued i.e. the PSP or the RSP who is alleged to have committed the

 irregularity. 47. It is stated that in actual practice even for allegations against an W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 33 of 99 RSP respondent No.1 takes refuge in the fact that there exists no privity

 of contract between them and therefore, a show cause is issued only to

 the concerned PSP without even informing the RSP about the allegation

 and the action proposed to be taken against him. Ultimately, punitive

 action be it fine or deactivation is visited on the RSP who is condemned

 unheard. 48. It is stated that upon being appointed as an RSP a digital

 certificate also called the „access credential‟ in the form of a dongle is

 provided and the machine ID of the RSP is also registered by the

 registering authority appointed by respondent No.1. This is to check

 wrongful access of the respondent‟s system and misuse of the credential

 by any third party. Using the said credential an authorized RSP such as

 the petitioner herein can directly log on to the respondent No.1‟s web

 portal for booking a ticket. A prospective ticket buyer is directed by

 respondent No.3 to the mobile phone of the petitioner and following

 further interaction a ticket is booked by the petitioner directly according

 to the needs of the customers. 49. It is categorically denied that the petitioner has ever shared his

 access credentials with the respondent No.3 or transferred his ID. The

 petitioner only charges the rates as prescribed by respondent No.1. The

 electronic reservation slip as also the receipt of the money paid are W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 34 of 99 issued to the customers in the prescribed format. The petitioner is stated

 to have associated with the respondent No.3 only to augment his income

 by making use of the opportunity to expand his business and book more

 tickets even while strictly adhering to the extent rules and regulations as

 prescribed by respondent No.1. It is stated that at every step of the

 process disclaimers are displayed to the effect that respondent No.3 is in

 no way associated with the railways or respondent No.1 and that a

 nominal market access fee would be imposed upon the customers for

 facilities such as online payment gateway services being provided. 50. It is stated that the petitioner learnt that several RSPs associated

 with respondent No.3 were proceeded against by the respondent No.1 in

 the form of deactivation of concerned RSP agency without affording

 them any hearing whatsoever. Certain fines were directed to be paid by

 the concerned PSPs and the RSPs were to be permanently deactivated

 and debarred. Apprehending such action without following due

 procedure of law, from respondent No.1 the petitioner herein has filed

 the present writ petition. Respondent / IRCTC has not filed a counter-

 affidavit to the petitions filed by the respective RSPs, however, detailed

 submissions as addressed by Mr. Majithia, learned counsel for IRCTC

 have been dealt with below in succeeding paragraphs. W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 35 of 99 Counter-affidavit by respondent no.2 in W.P.(C) 8625/2017 51. The respondent No.2, who is the concerned PSP associated with

 the petitioner herein has taken the stand in its counter affidavit that its

 own contract and agreement with respondent No.1 is not a subject matter

 of the present writ petition and that respondent No.3 and the petitioner

 had clandestinely entered into a commercial agreement thereby creating

 an agency which was prejudicial to the interest of the other respondent.

 It is stated that the respondent No.3 while styling itself as a facilitator of

 e-commerce market place business is in fact an authorized entity trading

 and earning revenue in connivance with the petitioner. An impression is

 sought to be created wherein the petitioner is portrayed as an agent of

 respondent Nos.1 and 2 when in fact it is acting like a sovereign. Further,

 it is stated that development of an app without express authorization of

 the respondent No.1‟s portal is a glaring illegality and may have severe

 privacy issues. 52. The petitioner having diverted from the specified procedure for

 the purpose of booking tickets was issued notices by respondent No.1

 informing him of the deactivation of his access credential and therefore,

 the respondent No.2 is stated to have no role to play in the matter.

 Moreover, all the commercial contracts involved in the matter i.e.

 PSP/respondent No.1 and PSP/petitioner have incorporated arbitration W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 36 of 99 clauses and therefore, the maintainability of the present petition is

 challenged. The dispute at hand is an ordinary commercial dispute and

 would fall under the domain of private law. Submissions of Mr. Jayant Bhushan 53. Mr. Jayant Bhushan, learned Sr. Counsel appearing for the

 petitioner in W.P.(C) 9864/2017 i.e. M/s Stelling (in short) would submit

 that the notice of the IRCTC to it, asking it to stop booking of tickets on

 its website and stating that its activities in running the website are illegal

 and further suspension of access credentials of RSPs associated with the

 petitioner has had a direct effect on its business and therefore the present

 petition is certainly maintainable. He reiterates that M/s Stelling is not

 involved in the business of directly booking train tickets and merely

 operates an e-commerce platform i.e Railyatri.in for bringing together a

 purchaser and an RSP to book tickets. The payment made by the

 customer is forwarded by M/s Stelling (Railyatri) to the RSP who then

 further forwards the same to the respondent IRCTC. The ultimate

 booking is done by the RSP concerned. All electronic payments

 involved are done in accordance with Govt. of India guidelines for FDI

 on e-commerce and extend RBI guidelines. 54. He would state that none of irregularities as contemplated by

 IRCTC e-ticketing policy are attracted by the business model as set in W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 37 of 99 place by M/s Stelling. There is merely an unsubstantiated charge of

 sharing of access credentials by the concerned RSPs with M/s Stelling

 (Railyatri), however, nothing has been put on record in support of same.

 The price charged for every ticket is exactly according to the rates

 prescribed by IRCTC and only a small commission is charged to the

 customer by M/s Stelling for the convenience of using its website, which

 is a contractual relationship. 55. It is his submission that IRCTCs argument of interpreting the

 mandate, "ticket should be booked only when the customer approaches" 56. As regards the contention that M/s Stelling is usurping the role of

 Service Providers under the B2C Scheme, it is his submission that there

 is a fundamental difference between the operations undertaken by such

 Service Providers (for example Makemytrip, Justdial etc.) and M/s

 Stelling (Railyatri) inasmuch as the Service Providers booked tickets

 themselves whereas M/s Stelling has a platform (Railyatri) for bringing

 together the customer and the RSP. Further a Service Provider is paid

 `20 to `40 for every ticket booked, whereas M/s Stelling charges only a

 small convenience fee to the extent of 1.25% of the ticket amount. 57. He would state that Railway tickets are only a licence to travel

 on trains and by no stretch can such tickets be construed to mean to be

 property of IRCTC. Further assuming that M/s Stelling does get some

 profit indirectly through the sale of Railway Tickets it cannot mean that

 such benefits arise out of unauthorized use of IRCTCs property. In

 support he would present a hypothetical situation wherein an employee

 of an RSP benefits by getting salary. In such a scenario the employee is

 benefitting indirectly from the business of sale of tickets but it cannot be

 said that the said employee is benefitting on account of sale of IRCTCs W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 39 of 99 property or that IRCTC‟s permission would be required prior to hiring

 any such employee. 58. Mr. Bhushan would reiterate and emphasize that a ticket is only

 booked by an authorized agent and that the full value of the ticket is paid

 to IRCTC. As regards allegation of violations in terms of Section 143 of

 Railways Act, he would submit that M/s Stelling does not carry on the

 business of procuring and supplying tickets for travel on Railways.

 Further the context under which the said provision was framed makes it

 clear that it was to prevent touting of railways tickets and then reselling

 to customers later on. It would not apply in a situation where the

 customer is genuine and a request is made by him for booking a ticket,

 which is ultimately done by an authorized agent only. Even as per

 commercial circular no. 64 of 2002 issued by the Railway Board a

 person is permitted to purchase a ticket through an attendant or an

 authorized person and he does not himself have to be physically present

 at the point of booking. In such circumstance, according to him, a

 violation under Section 143 would never be made out. He would rely on

 a judgment of Kerala High Court in Mathew K. Cherian v. State of

 Kerala , 2016 SCC Online Ker 31556. 59. According to him the thrust of IRCTCs case is that any booking

 even though done by an RSP at the behest of a customer through M/s W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 40 of 99 Stelling would be illegal and the allegation that M/s Stelling itself is

 booking tickets through misuse of access credentials of authorized RSPs

 is merely a supplementary submission to defend its case. A simple

 investigation can easily be undertaken to pin point IP addresses of

 computer systems used for the purpose of booking tickets. In case, it is

 actually found that an unauthorized computer system has been used for

 the purpose of booking tickets, access credentials having been illegally

 shared, such misuse would be actionable and IRCTC would be within its

 rights to take action against such illegal sharing of access credentials.

 However, in the present matter no specific instance of such illegal

 sharing has been shown. 60. He would state that Railyatri provides a virtual cloud telephony

 PBX service for benefit of RSPs to automatically connect an incoming

 call from a potential customer. Such a call is not attended by M/s

 Stelling and is automatically routed to any RSP that might be free at that

 time. According to him this service is similar to that of a "Call Centre" 61. As regards complaint of non-refund of cancellation amounts as

 raised by IRCTC, he would submit that delayed refunds have been a

 perennial problem plaguing IRCTC. Specific instances as re-counted by

 the respondent IRCTC have duly been answered by M/s Stelling mainly

 on the ground that delays happened only in few cases depending on

 specific facts and circumstances of each case. He would submit that

 live train status, seat availability, PNR information and other such data is

 not proprietary to IRCTC and that such data is openly available on

 indianrail.gov.in which is managed by CRIS. Moreover, M/s Stelling

 has its own technology for the purpose of obtaining live train running

 status. Information with respect to PNR confirmation probability as

 presented by M/s Stelling to a customer is based on algorithms using

 historical data of tickets booked for the concerned period and is in no

 way accessed from confidential internal networks of the respondent

 IRCTC. 62. Mr. Bhushan would state that the petitioner cannot be excluded

 from entering into any ancillary or side business venture which has not

 been declared as a state monopoly under Article 19 (6) of the

 Constitution of India. IRCTCs stand that M/s Stelling‟s business has W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 42 of 99 caused a decline in the footfall on IRCTC‟s website cannot be a ground

 to impose restrictions on its business model. Further any such restriction

 would be contrary to the provisions of the Competition Act, 2002 . 63. In conclusion he would state that the present matter does not

 involve any disputed questions of fact but in fact rests upon disputed

 principles namely whether a market place based e-commerce entity can

 carry on a business incidental to a sector declared as state monopoly and

 whether M/s Stelling‟s business model is in fact violative of any of the

 extent policies of the respondent IRCTC. Submissions of Mr. Sanjay Jain. 64. Mr. Sanjay Jain, learned Sr. Counsel as briefed by Mr. Mandeep

 Singh Vinaik, Adv. appearing for the petitioners in W.P.(C) Nos.

 8562/2017, 8570/2017, 8598/2017, 8613/2017 & 8625/2017, apart from

 reiterating the stand taken in the respective petitions would submit that

 the crux of the respondent IRCTC‟s case is that ticket bookings were

 being undertaken through the Railyatri app, which is not an authorized

 app. Upon such allegations being leveled by the respondent IRCTC and

 without having given an opportunity to the respective RSPs punitive

 action was taken against concerned RSPs thereby de-activating their

 access credentials and debarring them from accessing the respondent‟s

 network for the purpose of booking of railway tickets. Moreover, in W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 43 of 99 certain cases IRCTC had already blocked access credentials of RSPs

 even before show cause notices were issued to them. 65. He would endeavour to portray the ticket booking process as

 conducted by an RSP as follows: 66. Mr. Jain would submit that the process undertaken by an RSP is much

simpler than the one that is available to a prospective customer, i.e., by

logging on to IRCTC‟s website and following several steps in pursuance of

booking a ticket successfully. According to him, the fewer steps as

undertaken by an RSP (as opposed to the multiplicity of steps in the process

undertaken by an individual customer) would in fact lead to lowering the

burden on the respondent‟s network. Moreover, an RSP also helps reduce the

number of simultaneously logged in customers seeking to book tickets. 67. Mr. Jain would submit that "access credentials" is not a software which

can be hacked or illegally shared but is in fact a physical dongle / pen drive

provided by PSP to an RSP. Being merely a platform developed to connect

a customer with an RSP, it would be impossible for such credentials to be

shared with M/s Stelling‟s website. 68. According to him, the petitioner / RSPs can also not be held to be guilty

of using technology to gain unfair advantage. This is because as indicated in W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 45 of 99 the procedure stated above an RSP can perform only one booking at a given

time and not multiple bookings simultaneously. He would also reiterate that

nowhere in the respondent‟s rules is it mandated that a prospective customer

must physically approach an RSP for the purpose of booking a ticket. 69. He would state that M/s Stelling charges a bare minimal amount of fee

ranging from 0.07 percent to 1 percent of the total booking fee as

"convenience fee". He points out the same is not collected by the RSP but is

in fact charged by M/s Stelling and is not included as part and parcel of the

ticketing fare. The mere representation of the fee so collected on the ticket,

not forming part and parcel of the ticketing fare, cannot be said to be

"overcharging". Moreover, such convenience fee is also charged by

contemporary websites such as Cleartrip.com, Makemytrip.com etc. 70. According to him, the respondent‟s action in de-activating the

petitioner RSPs access credentials even prior to issuance of show cause notice

smacks of malafides and it is contrary to the principle of natural justice and

therefore the entire process would stand vitiated. In this regard he would rely

on Gorkha Security Services v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi 2014 9 SCC 105,

Reliance Telecom ltd. v. Union of India 2017 4 SCC 269 and Smt. S.R.

Venkataraman v. Union of India and Anr. 1979 2 SCC 491. 71. He would state that there is no privity of contract between an RSP and

IRCTC, but even in such a case RSP is in the nature of a sub-agent. The RSP W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 46 of 99 may seek relief with respect of any decision of IRCTC which affects the RSP.

Reliance is placed on Tashi Delek Gaming Solutions Ltd. and Anr. V. State

of Karnataka and Ors. 2006 (1) UJ 209 (SC). He would further rely on Kamgar Sabha v. State of Goa and Ors. W.P. No. 243/1995 and Gulam

Abbas and Ors. v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Ors. 1982 1 SCC 71 to state

that this court in exercise of its power in writ jurisdiction can declare an RSP

such as the petitioner to be sub-agent of IRCTC. 72. It is further submitted that the respondent IRCTC‟s stand that it has an

exclusive right as regards supply of e-tickets on payment of fare on account of

such tickets being its "exclusive property" with proprietary rights attached

thereto is erroneous and misconceived inasmuch as IRCTC has no right to

refuse supply of tickets except in circumstances as prescribed under Section

56 of the Railway Act, and in terms of Section 50 of the Railway Act, IRCTC

is obligated to supply tickets on payment of fare and has no discretion to

decide whether such ticket is to be sold or not. He would also draw reference

to Clause 8 of the API agreement entered into between IRCTC and concerned

PSP to submit that in terms of the said Clause no intellectual property or any

other proprietary rights would accrue to either party and that a PSP will not

sue IRCTC for any claim (a) pertaining to intellectual property that the PSP

might develop being based on or related to the PSP agreement and (b) which

may arise in connection with use by PSP for purposes covered under the W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 47 of 99 agreement. According to him, the said clause therefore merely secures an

undertaking from the PSP against legal action. The said clause further states

that all IP rights on API Specifications and IRCTC websites (besides services

and any derivative work created thereof) would vest with IRCTC alone. Said

rights are not sub-licensable, transferrable or assignable unless otherwise

stated in the PSP agreement. Mr. Jain would further fault the respondent‟s

reliance on clauses 3.1, 3.4 and 3.7 of the PSP agreement inasmuch as

according to him the said clauses merely mandate that IRCTC‟s website

would only be accessed for lawful purposes and that a PSP would not in any

manner alter, reproduce, license or create any derivative work from sale or

transfer of any information, products or services obtained therefrom. It is

further mandated that a PSP shall not create any hyperlink to the website and

that in terms of clause 3.4 any obligation placed on the PSP would also be an

obligation placed on a customer thereof. It is therefore his submission that

such obligations therefore relate only to the PSP‟s customers and not its

agents. As regards clause 3.7 Mr. Jain would submit that only activities

which are premised on deceit, misrepresentation, misfeasance, inducement,

cheating etc. are contemplated to be covered and it in no way deals with

infringement of any IP rights. According to him in the regime of online ticket

booking where the fare amount is either pre-paid or simultaneously credited

to the account of PSP on purchase of each ticket, the possibilities visualized in W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 48 of 99 clause 3.7 do not arise. Moreover, according to him nothing would turn out

of clause 3.1 of the PSP agreement in the present context since there has been

no modification, copying, distribution, transmission, display, performance,

reproduction, publication, licensing, assignment or creation of derivative

work from the transfer or sale of any information, product or services

obtained from IRCTC‟s website. This is not even the case in the show cause

notice issued to the PSPs. 73. It is Mr. Jain‟s submission that the allegation of violation of IP rights is

therefore only vaguely referred to without identifying the exact nature of the

alleged right being violated and the manner in which such violation is alleged

to have occurred. Moreover, details of any financial loss having occurred

have also not been furnished. It is submitted that data used by Railyatri.in is

either self-generated or otherwise available in public domain and in any event

RSPs do not provide Railyatri any access to the IRCTC website nor is there

any sharing of access credentials. In terms of IRCTC‟s B2B model, a PSP

appointed thereunder pays a pre-determined amount to IRCTC for appointing

sub-agents like RSPs and it is in this manner that IRCTC expands its network

of providing de-centralized customer points to facilitate ticket booking.

According to Mr. Jain, it is therefore, none of IRCTC‟s concern as to whether

third parties like Railyatri, who are not under any contract with them, provide

ticket facilitation services on their own platform and monetize the information W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 49 of 99 available in public domain or that which is self-generated. He reiterates that

respondent IRCTC has completely glossed over the fact that every

information (PNR details, seat availability and real-time train position) is

available in public domain namely, through the website indianrailways.gov.in.

In conclusion, he would submit that the arrangement between RSPs and third

party entities such as Railyatri is only a win-win situation for IRCTC because

it is earning more revenue through RSPs and there is no guarantee that it

would have earned the same additional revenue but from the customers added

by the said third party entities. According to him, there appears to be no

motive for IRCTC to step in, in the present scenario, apart from some

collateral motive to eliminate the aforesaid third party entities at the behest of

other players such as makemytrip.com. 74. As regards the question of maintainability of the present writ petition

Mr. Jain would state that the writ petition has been filed against the

respondent No.1/IRCTC over the illegal and unlawful deactivation of

petitioner‟s ticketing account without having given a legal and lawful reason

to do so and without having afforded a reasonable opportunity to make its

case. It is submitted that respondent No.1 operates as a monopoly in the area

of railway ticketing. It appoints PSPs as its agent who further appoint RSPs

as sub agents and therefore no direct contractual relationship exist between an

RSP and respondent No.1. In case of any alleged default by an RSP, action is W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 50 of 99 taken against the PSP by respondent No.1, however, the same is effective

against the RSP as in the instant cases, they were deactivated without any

show cause notice or hearing being afforded. It is stated that there is no other

alternative and more efficacious remedy against the aforesaid action as the

concerned rules of respondent No.1 do provide for a show cause notice to be

issued prior to action being taken, however, it is not specified as to who it

must be given to. In effect therefore, a sham show cause notice is issued to a

PSP without the RSP ever being called upon for an explanation. 75. It is therefore submitted that it is in this context that the petitioner has

approached under writ jurisdiction to safeguard his own employees and

livelihood against the arbitrary, mala fide and illegal orders of deactivation

being passed by respondent No.1 being in complete violation of principle of

natural justice. 76. Reliance is placed on R.D. Shetty vs. the International Airport

Authority , AIR 1979 SC 1628; Ajay Hasia vs. Khalid Mujib Sehravarddi ,

(1981) 1 SCC 722; Som Prakash vs. Union of India , AIR 1981 SC 212 to

state that respondent No.1 is an instrumentality of state and therefore,

amenable to writ jurisdiction. Further, reliance is placed on Tata Cellular vs.

UOI , ( 1994) 6 SCC 651, Harbanslal Sahnia vs. Indian Oil Corporation (2003) 2 SCC 107; ABL Intl. Ltd. vs. Export Credit Guarantee Corporation

of India Ltd. , 2004 (3) SCC 553 to state that even where alternative remedy W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 51 of 99 in the form of arbitration clause is available the same may be subject matter of

writ jurisdiction in cases were the subject action is in violation of principle of

nature justice and fundamental rights. Reliance is also placed on ( i) Chairman

Railway Board and Anr. vs. Chandrima Das and Ors. (2000) 2 SCC 465; ( ii)

Noble Resources Ltd. v. State of Orissa and Anr. (2006) 10 SCC 236; ( iii)

M.P. State Agro Industries Development Corp. Ltd. and Anr. v. Jahan Khan (2007) 10 SCC 88; (iv) Saraswati Deswal vs. State of Haryana and Ors.

(2010) 2 SCC 126 to state that availability of alternative remedy would not be

bar to exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution by this

Court, if actions of the respondent are shown to be manifestly unfair,

arbitrary, unjust, non-transparent and discriminatory. 77. According to him, respondent No.1 has taken / wants to take coercive

action against the petitioners merely because they are accepting ticket

booking requests from genuine travelers through the web portal / app of

Railyatri (Stelling Technologies), which activity is not prohibited under any

statue, law or rules / regulations of the respondent No.1 or the Ministry of

Railways. Relying on Ambuja Hotels and Real Estate Pvt. Ltd. vs. IRCTC,

W.P. (C) 726/2009, decided on April 16, 2009; D.K. Yadav v. J.M.A.

Industries Ltd. ( 1993) 3 SCC 259 and Uptron India Ltd. v. Shammi Bhan 1998 (6) SCC 538, Mr. Jain would submit that respondent No.1 being an

instrumentality of state is bound to issue a show cause notice and duly follow W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 52 of 99 principle of natural justice even where there is automatic application of a

norm / clause. Submissions of Mr. Nikhil Majithia. 78. Mr. Nikhil Majithia, learned counsel appearing for the common

respondent IRCTC would in addition to the stand already taken in the

counter-affidavits state that IRCTC has invested `1171.05 Crores to develop

the online eco system around its website for the purpose of conducting

commercial transactions including sale of e-tickets for rail travel. IRCTC has

the exclusive mandate to sell e-tickets having also been given the rights to

authorize other persons / entities for the purpose. In order to further exploit

the use of internet and increase its outreach to sell e-tickets, IRCTC has

developed its business models namely ICS, B2B and B2C schemes. It is

under these schemes that PSPs and RSPs are appointed with the objective of

leveraging the internet and allied technologies to provide ease of access to

potential customers. Where a customer is not comfortable booking tickets

directly on IRCTC‟s website on his own he may resort to booking the tickets

through such RSPs. To execute the aforementioned models, IRCTC has

entered into commercial contracts with various commercial entities such as

Cleartrip, Makemytrip, Paytm, Justdial, Kotak Mahindra Bank, ITZ Cash

Card Ltd. and several others. He would submit that these commercial entities W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 53 of 99 have paid huge sums to be associated with IRCTC under the different

business models which is a significant source of revenue for IRCTC. 79. He would submit that M/s Stelling‟s core activity is dependent upon

sale of e-tickets and if there were no e-tickets to sell or no IRCTC website, it

would have no business activity. M/s Stelling has not paid any fees for being

associated with IRCTC or any other fee for being integrated into its network.

According to him, M/s Stelling is unauthorizedly selling tickets and operating

a business in open market by misutilizing IRCTC‟s property. M/s Stelling

has approached this court without having established any legal right to deal

with IRCTC‟s property seeking a declaration that its activities are legal.

According to him M/s Stelling‟s action in associating with different RSPs is

to the detriment of concerned PSPs who have set up their infrastructure but

the fruits of investments made by PSPs are being reaped by M/s Stelling. 80. Mr. Majithia would state that the entire ticket booking process is

carried out on M/s Stelling‟s platforms as it issues an e-ticket. The customer

logs on to M/s Stelling‟s website, fills in all the requisite details, goes through

information, availability of trains and then complete the process of booking

the railway ticket on its website only. Moreover, M/s Stelling also accepts

the money for booking the e-ticket directly from customer. In this regard, he

would make a reference to a similar case before the European Court of Justice

which had rule that Uber was not merely a phone application enabling a user W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 54 of 99 to connect with owner of a car, in fact the entire manner of process of booking

a cab on Uber resembles an actual taxi service and would therefore be bound

to comply with extent rules and regulations imposed on the traditional taxi

owners. 81. He would draw my attention to a complaint regarding non-refund of

ticket cancellation amount by M/s. Stelling on July 13, 2017. On further

investigation it was found that several RSPs had been booking e-tickets for

M/s Stelling in violation of rules and regulations set out by IRCTC and

without due authorization either from IRCTC or PSP. The violations found

were: It was after these violations being found by the anti-fraud team of

IRCTC that show cause notices were issued to concerned PSPs on account of

the fact that under the agreement between IRCTC and PSPs, a PSP was W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 55 of 99 responsible for all activities of its own RSPs. The PSPs being unable to

furnish information regarding tickets, booked by the anti-fraud team that a

decision was taken to permanently de-activate the concerned RSPs.

Consequently penalty was also imposed upon the concerned PSPs. During

the investigation it was also found that several RSPs were found sharing their

access credentials with M/s Stelling. 82. Mr. Majithia would also point out that the information regarding live

train status, seat availability, ticket confirmation probability etc. as displayed

on M/s Stelling was exactly the same as is visible on irctc.co.in. According to

him this is a clear indication of the fact that M/s Stelling is accessing IRCTCs

website and systems without due authorization or permission and such misuse

of access credentials is completely illegal and amounts to theft and

misappropriation of property. 83. Mr. Majithia has further challenged the very maintainability of the

petition filed by M/s Stelling. He would state that IRCTC having entered into

private arrangements with various PSPs with a view to expand its own

business of sale of e-tickets cannot be said to be discharging a public or

statutory duty. Further there is no privity of contract between IRCTC and M/s

Stelling and therefore there is no corresponding duty or obligation owed to it.

In such a case a writ petition cannot be used for the enforcement of a duty

which does not exist. He would also state that the present petition arising out W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 56 of 99 of commercial relationships existing between various parties would not be

maintainable on the same ground and the respective parties must be relegated

to pursue their remedies under ordinary civil law. 84. He would state that the present petition involves highly disputed

questions of facts concerning working of technical systems and other related

technologies, the workings of which cannot be ascertained without the help of

proper examination of systems by technical experts. According to him, the

arrangement of booking e-tickets from M/s Stelling‟s website has to be

examined with a view that in today‟s times technology permits control of one

computer system from another system remotely. It is submitted that the

manner of working as claimed by M/s Stelling is strongly disputed by IRCTC

and the same can be verified only by leading evidence which would be

dependent on forensic examination of M/s Stelling system along with the

concerned RSP‟s systems. According to him, all this would ouster writ

jurisdiction. 85. Mr. Majithia would submit that roughly 6.8 lac e-tickets are booked

through IRCTC‟s systems everyday with the total amount in circulation being

`816,000,000/-. It is therefore very important to control activities of

unauthorized persons / entities. Absence of regulation of their activities

would undoubtedly lead to situations where huge amounts of public money is W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 57 of 99 either siphoned off by other commercial entities or misappropriated. 86. He would draw my attention to Commercial Circular Nos. 56/2008 and

13/2010 issued by Railway Board which exempt only individual users

booking their tickets directly through IRCTC‟s website from providing

identify proof at the time of booking of the e-ticket. Such customers can

book only up to 8 e-tickets a month whereas there is no restriction on the

number of tickets that can be booked by an RSP. It is in this scenario that

rules and regulations have been framed governing the activities of PSPs /

RSPs and strict compliance is sought. It is pointed out that none of the

policies, rules or regulations have been assailed by any of the petitioner and

therefore it would not be open to anyone to obliquely avoid them. 87. Relying on Section 143 of the Railways Act, Mr. Majithia would

submit that the arrangement as set up by M/s Stelling for the purpose of sale

of e-tickets clearly involves procurement of tickets by an unauthorized

person. Challenging M/s Stelling‟s reliance on FDI policies, he would

submit that clauses 5.1 and 5.2 of the same clearly stipulates that no amount

of FDI is permissible for railway operations. Sale of tickets is an integral

process of railway operations and therefore no entity can indirectly deal with

prohibited sectors. 88. In conclusion he would submit that IRCTC has been given the

exclusive right to provide catering services on railway premises and trains W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 58 of 99 vide Commercial Circular No. 57/2015. According to him, M/s Stelling‟s

claim of providing similar e-catering services is yet another example of their

illegal and unauthorized activities indicative of an intruder seeking to unjustly

enrich itself at the cost of the owner. 89. In response to the petitions filed by the RSPs Mr. Majithia would

submit that in terms of the MOU entered into with the Railways IRCTC is the

only entity that is authorized to not only act as an authorized agent of the

Railways for the purpose of ticketing but is also vested with the rights and

responsibilities of overall development, management and marketing of IT-

based ticketing, e-commerce and allied services. Section 60 (g) of the

Railways Act gives authority to IRCTC as an extended arm of the Railways

for regulating the travelling upon, use, working and management of the

Railways. Based on these duties and authority, IRCTC has the power to

authorize a person / entity to engage in a business involving Railway

property. 90. He would submit that the sale of e-tickets is strictly regulated by

IRCTC in order to prevent any unauthorized and illegal access and usage of

railways property for the conduct of any business whatsoever which solely

thrives over the business of IRCTC, i.e., sale of e-tickets. IRCTC has, all

through these years of service to its customers, built a goodwill and reputation

in the regime of e-ticketing in India. Unauthorized and illegal usage of W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 59 of 99 IRCTC website and data available on it is most detrimental to its business

interest because it is unchecked and can lead to substantial loss of goodwill

and reputation of IRCTC. The conduct of sales of e-tickets is a subject that

ought to be strictly regulated since it involves funds of the public, and in a

welfare state, the core principle is that of the Government or State‟s liability

towards public welfare. Therefore, the regulations must be airtight, in so far

as to avoid any kind of misfeasance and defaults which may ultimately

degrade and affect the quality of service offered to the public. 91. He would submit that whole nature of business of M/s Stelling

mushrooms from years of research and hard work put in by IRCTC and

Railways in developing an appropriate electronic ticketing experience.

Website of IRCTC is its original creation and it ensues with it intellectual

property rights and related protections against unauthorized usage of all

information and data contained therein in the nature of copyright which exists

on its own and the registration of which is not mandatorily required.

According to him IRCTC would retain all IP rights including copyrights on

API specifications and IRCTC websites besides IRCTC services and any

derivative work created thereof. In this context it is absolutely clear that

express permission / authorization of IRCTC is mandatorily required for any

usage of its website and information available thereon to conduct a business

restricted to the terms and conditions of such usage as agreed upon by IRCTC W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 60 of 99 and the authorized party or licensee. 92. Mr. Majithia while referring to RSP agreement, as relied upon by the

concerned RSP, would submit that the RSP is under a clear obligation to not

modify, copy, distribute, transmit, display, perform, reproduce, publish,

license, assign, create derivate works from, transfer or sell any information,

products or services obtained from the IRCTC website. According to him, the

very act of RSPs engaging with M/s Stelling, whose whole business relies

upon IRCTC‟s website and the data/information contained thereon, is directly

in contravention of contractual obligations and terms of IRCTC. Even if RSPs

were not actually sharing their access credentials with M/s Stelling, which is

still a moot point, the mere fact that they were aware of the nature of business

activity being conducted by M/s Stelling makes the RSPs liable for each

breach of the obligations they were supposed to comply with. 93. Mr. Majithia would also point to a case wherein an RSP had been

found to be misusing the access credentials issued to him as he was

functioning as a tout. The concerned RSP also admitted to RPF that he had

made some 15 fake IDs on IRCTC website for the purpose. 94. It is submitted that show cause notice was issued to respective PSPs

when certain violations were found in the manner of operations of IRCTC

website and access granted to respective RSPs. It is only after being

unsatisfied with the responses furnished by PSPs that IRCTC took the action W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 61 of 99 of imposing penalty on them and permanently deactivating access credentials

of the RSPs concerned. In conclusion he would submit that the role of an

RSP is akin to a sub-licensee with whom there is no direct relationship with

the owner / licensor. However, the licensor still retains the right to take action

to secure the subject matter of the license which is being used by the sub-

licensee if it finds that it is being used contrary to terms of the original license

or contract. 95. Challenging the locus and maintainability of the petitions filed by the

respective RSPs Mr. Majithia would submit that an RSP being appointed by a

PSP is granted access to IRCTC‟s websites and systems by the PSP itself and

the respondent No.1 has no role to play in the matter except that the PSP is

required to ensure that all activities of the RSP remain within the ambit of

principle agreement entered into between the PSP and the respondent No.1.

Therefore, the nature of contract between IRCTC and PSP also defines and

limits the nature of activities that can be undertaken by an RSP. It is

submitted that the respondent No.1 took the natural step of safeguarding its

property by deactivating the access credentials of the concerned RSPs upon

coming to know they were also booking e-tickets for third parties without any

prior permission or authorization. 96. There is no privity of contract between the RSP and IRCTC and all the

rights accruing in favour of the RSP flow out of the commercial relationship W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 62 of 99 between the PSP and its RSPs. The alleged violation of any such right would

result in civil remedy being resorted to where the nature of alleged right

would first have to be established. In the absence of such a right existing

expressly qua IRCTC, a writ petition cannot be resorted to, to first create and

then enforce such a right. Even so under the existing commercial relationship

among the parties involved civil courts of Delhi have been conferred

exclusive jurisdiction. Reliance in this regard is placed on Rajasthan State

Industrial Development and Investment Corporation vs. Diamond and Gem

Development Corporation Ltd. (2013) 5 SCC 470. 97. It is also submitted that the RSP would further not have any locus

standi to file the present writ petition as the concerned PSPs have accepted

the penalty imposed by respondent No.1 and have also willingly deposited the

said amounts. Prior to deactivation of erring RSPs show cause notices were

duly issued to the concerned PSPs and the PSPs having opted to comply with

the order of respondent No.1, a third party such as the petitioner herein cannot

assail the same before this Court. Reliance placed on K.K. Saxena vs.

International Commissioner on Irrigation and Drainage (2015) 4 SCC 670

to submit that in respect of a commercial activity being under taken even by

state instrumentalities a writ petition would not be maintainable.

Submissions of Ms. Isha Bhalla. 98. Ms. Isha Bhalla, learned counsel appearing for respondent no.2 in W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 63 of 99 W.P.(C) 8625/2017 would submit that the present dispute is an ordinary

commercial dispute subject to jurisdiction of a civil court. According to her

the concerned RSP is hand in glove with M/s Stelling and is seeking

enforcement of contract, which is not amenable to writ jurisdiction. 99. In the face of financial commitments made by a PSP for being

associated with IRCTC, permitting a third party to avail commercial

advantage through backdoor of private agreement with an RSP is abuse of the

process of law and nothing short of jumping the queue for unjust enrichment

at the cost of the concerned PSP. 100. She would submit that the RSP as well as M/s Stelling are seeking

privileges of a tout, which is expressly forbidden by Section 143 of The

Railways Act. Mere use of creative agreements would not change nature of

the activities undertaken by them, and the same would clearly fall afoul of the

extant Rules and Regulations of IRCTC and the Railways. According to her,

the continuation of the arrangement as existing between the concerned RSPs

and RailYatri is not only illegal, but also clearly opposed to public policy. 101. Ms Bhalla would rely on Joshi Technologies International Inc. Vs

Union of India & Ors. to submit that the present disputes flow out of private

agreements, and writ jurisdiction cannot be resorted to for enforcement of the

same. Moreover, arbitration clauses being incorporated into the said

agreements, the present petitions deserve to be dismissed. W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 64 of 99 102. In conclusion, she would submit that M/s Stelling, under the garb of

"convenience fee", is imposing a levy on the general public, without the

sanction of law as required by Article 264 of the Constitution. The present

issue concerns highly disputed questions of fact, which cannot be decided in

writ jurisdiction. Reasons and conclusions. 103. Before I deal with the rival submissions advanced before me, it is

necessary to delineate some relevant facts in brief, to appreciate the

controversy, which arises in this batch of petitions. 104. The respondent IRCTC entered into an MoU with the Ministry of

Railways to carry out functions related to booking of tickets by employing

advanced technology. The IRCTC had put in place various models through

the following three schemes:- The entire hardware and software technology as well as
maintenance, development and upgradation along with the kiosks will be
looked after by IRCTC through suitable mechanism. 1.6 Separate working arrangements will be drawn up between MOR
and IRCTC from time to time which would contain the modality and
methodology of working, financing, revenue sharing (if any), respective
responsibilities and roles, code of ethics, security and connectivity
issues, and all other allied matters to provide e-services and Retail
ticketing in customer interface areas and marketing of IT related W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 67 of 99 ticketing and other products for promoting mutual business or market it
to third parties. The specific working arrangement would also specify
manner of disbursement of receipts and revenue arising out of the
activities as well as respective liabilities and deposit of the fare due to
Railways in prescribed manner. Agreement between IRCTC and PSP

(Clause 3.7)

It is obligatory on the part of the Second Party to control the activities of
their sub agent. The Second Party shall be equally liable for all civil and
criminal liabilities of their sub-agent. If at any stage the sub-agent of the
Second Party indulges in any fraudulent activity like (but not restricted to)
collection of excess charges, alteration of fares on the tickets, issue of
duplicate ticket etc. Then the second party shall also be liable for such
activity of their sub agents and IRCTC shall be free to take any action under
civil and criminal law. Termination

9.1 The Second Party will have to control the activities of their sub agents.
In case of any alteration or tampering with the ERP Slip the same is
punishable U/s 420 Indian Penal Code for which the second party as well as
the agent are liable. The second party shall also be liable for the offence
committed by their agent who indulge in any fraudulent activities including
(but not restricted to) collection of excess charges, alternation of fares on the
ticket(s), issue of duplicate tickets. The second party will have to control the
activities of their sub-agents. On receipt any complaint against sub agents W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 68 of 99 the action taken on sub agent shall also be taken on second party including
deactivation of their user id. Agreement between PSP and RSP 1. Both parties shall comply to all applicable rules / regulations of Indian
 Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC)

 Agreement between RSP and Railyatri

Recitals 1. RailYatri is engaged in the business of providing information and
 technology solutions to its users through its websites and mobile
 application, and is operating as an E-commerce market place. 2. RailYatri under this agreement is an intermediary, and acts like a
 facilitator between the traveller (Buyer) and seller (Travel Agent), to
 provide support services on its digital and electronic platforms, like
 logistics, call center and payment collection, to the Travel Agent, as
 permitted by the Government of India‟s March, 2016 Guidelines for
 conducting E-commerce. 3. Travel Agent is in the business of booking bus ticket, train tickets,
 flight tickets, travel packages & related ancillary services / products as
 is a registered Retail Service Provider with IRCTC, and desires to use
 RailYatri‟s E-commerce market place platform to expand its business,
 which Travel Agent Warrants to RailYatri it is entitled to do.

Agreement W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 69 of 99 1. RailYatri will provide its E-commerce marketplace and its attendant
digital and electronic networks to the Travel Agent, and act as a facilitator
between prospective traveller who may visit RailYatri‟s E-commerce website
or mobile application, and the Travel Agent. The ticket will be booked by the
Travel Agent (directly or through its affiliates) based on requirement
specified by the Buyer, in terms of its license with IRCTC. RailYatri will only
provide marketing information, payment, communication and support
services to Travel Agent. 2. RailYatri will provide an online dashboard to the Travel Agent for
performance management and monitoring. 3. Compliance with Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation
 (IRCTC) Regulations

 A. Travel Agent represents and warrants that he / she is an
 authorized ticket agent and is registered with IRCTC in this
 regard. B. Travel Agent will be responsible for availing / renewing all
 applicable IRCTC licenses from time to time, and will ensure
 compliance to all IRCTC rules and regulations in relation to
 ticket booking. C. Travel Agent will charge only prescribed IRCTC charges to
 users. D. Travel Agent will book tickets only using IRCTC registration /
 license. In case any booking made other than this mechanism,
 then Travel Agent will be responsible for all commercial and
 statutory / governmental liabilities, including and not limited to W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 70 of 99 refund to RY User / RailYatri a penalty equivalent to gross ticket
 price (including all charges, commission, fee, etc.)

 E. Travel Agent agrees to indemnify RailYatri in case travel agent
 violates any norm / rule / regulation of IRCTC and any directive
 / order is issued against RailYatri by any authority.

 F. Travel Agent shall ensure that all Electronic Reservation Slips
 (ERS) issued by the Travel Agent using RailYatri‟s platform
 conform to the format prescribed by IRCTC. G. Travel Agent shall ensure that cancellation procedures
 prescribed by IRCTC are followed. 4. Payments

 A. xxxxxxx

 B. Travel Agent authorizes RailYatri to collect value of products /
 services from Buyer, which RailYatri will then remit to Travel
 Agent as Settlement Amount. RailYatri will pay the Travel Agent
 the ticket booking amount and all authorized amounts charged
 by the Travel Agent to the Buyer like IRCTC‟s service charges,
 agent‟s service charges. C. Travel Agent authorises RailYatri to collect and retain with itself
 charges for marketplace services as per the guidelines issued by
 Government of India, Ministry of Commerce, Department of
 Industrial Policy and Promotion, Press Release Note No.3,
 dated March 29, 2016. W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 71 of 99 D. RailYatri will remit the settlement amount to Travel Agent within
 the time frame mentioned in RBI notification RBI/2009-10/231
 DPSS.CO.PD.No. 1102/02.14.08/2009-10 dated November 24,
 2009. RailYatri may extend line of credit or advance(s) to
 Travel Agent prior to sale of service / product, and the
 settlement amount will then be adjusted from such line of credit
 or advance(s). E. In case of refund / cancellation, the amount owed by Travel
 Agent to RailYatri will be adjusted in settlement amount.
 RailYatri will directly make a refund to the Buyer. 5. Bookings, Cancellations and RailYatri's Special Offer to Buyer

 A. xxxxxxx

 B. xxxxxxx

 C. RailYatri, in the course of providing the above-mentioned E-
 commerce services, will also be offering Buyer choosing to book
 railway tickets, the added facility (Special Offer), of making partial
 payments for booked tickets, with the balance (Balance Payment)
 being paid to the Travel Agent by RailYatri for and on behalf of the
 Buyer, on terms and conditions entered into between RailYatri and the
 Buyer, where under the Travel Agent will receive its agreed settlement
 from RailYatri. i. In case of cancellation of ticket as per contractual
 agreement between RailYatri and Buyer, the Travel Agent will
 be pre-authorized by the Buyer to deposit the cancellation
 refund to RailYatri, for onward transmission to the Buyer by W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 72 of 99 RailYatri, after deduction of the Balance Payment, paid by
 RailYatri to Travel Agent, and any facilitation / financing fees,
 as may have been contracted between RailYatri and the Buyer.

 ii. The contractually agreed cancellation schedule between
 the Buyer and RailYatri will be at least 5 days prior to the date
 of travel, in case the Buyer does not pay RailYatri the Balance
 Payment for the ticket which has been paid to the Travel Agent
 by RailYatri on behalf of the Buyer, at least 5 days before the
 date of travel. D. In case the Buyer pays the Balance Payment for the ticket
 booking to RailYatri at least 5 days prior to the date of travel, then the
 cancellation rules of the railway authorities shall apply to any
 cancellation done by the Buyer between 5 days and the date / time of
 travel, and full refund money as per railway authorities rules, which
 shall be deposited by the Travel Agent to RailYatri, will be refunded to
 the Buyer. However, the financing / facilitation fees will still be
 deducted for the availed Balance Payment made by RailYatri for and
 on behalf of the Buyer. 7. Communication

 A. RailYatri will notify the Ticket Agent through dashboard, SMS
 and E-mail. Such notifications may be service request of new
 booking cancellations, changes to existing ticket, etc. 12. The parties are entering this Agreement as independent contractors,
and this Agreement will not be construed to create a partnership, joint
venture, or employment relationship between them. Neither Party will W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 73 of 99 represent itself to be an employee or agent of the other or enter into any
agreement or legally binding commitment or statement on the other‟s behalf
or in the other‟s name. A. It is clearly agreed and understood by the Parties that Travel
 Agent is not creating any sub agency with RailYatri and
 RailYatri has no liability or privity of contract with IRCTC,
 merely by reason of entering this agreement and providing its
 platforms to the Travel Agent. B. The Travel Agent is neither providing RailYatri access
 credentials to the web services of IRCTC, nor transferring
 Travel Agent‟s ID to RailYatri. C. The Travel Agent is merely using RailYatri‟s platform to
 enhance its rail ticket booking capacity, and Travel Agent will
 be solely responsible for following all Rules and Regulations
 stipulated by IRCTC for its Retail Service Providers, including
 ensuring that using RailYatri‟s platform does not interfere with
 the software provided to the Travel Agent by IRCTC. D. The Travel Agent understands and agrees that the covenants
 agreed to herein, including the provisioning of the special offer
 by RailYatri to Buyer booking on RailYatri‟s E-commerce
 platforms, does not violate or breach any of its contractual /
 license obligations with IRCTC 13. Confidentiality

 A. xxxxxxx W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 74 of 99 B. It is expressly provided that login credentials (username - password) issued by IRCTC to Travel Agent shall never be
 disclosed or shared or provided by Travel Agent to any party
 including and not limited to RailYatri and it‟s employees.

 C. No license or conveyance of any rights to the Receiving Party
 under any discoveries, inventions, patents, trade secrets,
 copyrights, or other form of intellectual property is expressly
 granted or implied by the disclosure or exchange of information
 between the parties. Extant Rules and Regulations

Do's for the Service providers

Mandates for Registration

  Registration as an RSP (Retail Service Provider) in IRCTC is issued
 for booking of E-Tickets only (except RTSA agents, who are authorized
 by Railways). It is essential to prevent sharing of IDs by PSP/RSP. Hence, Digital
 certificate and machine ID of RSP will be mandatory for registration.
  IRCTC‟s rules and regulations are to be read properly and followed
 strictly. Ignorance of the same cannot be considered as a valid reason.
 The Principal Service Provider (PSP) / RSP must be fully aware of the
 extant rules. Mandates for Booking / Cancellation of Tickets
  The RSP must ensure that the transaction (Booking or cancellation) is
 done with the complete knowledge and acceptance of the customer. W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 75 of 99  It is mandatory for all RSPs to maintain the written / electronic
 requests and a copy of the ID proof from the customers for both
 booking and cancellation of the tickets.  The ERS issued by all the PSPs / RSPs should be strictly in the format
 prescribed by IRCTC. ERS issued by the PSP / RSP should contain
 name and full address contact details of the same RSP and the name of
 the PSP.  RSPs must issue receipt of their own stationary for the amount
 collected from the customers.  The receipt should contain details like Railway Fare, IRCTC's service
 charges, agents service charges, payment gateway charge etc. (The
 service Tax as applicable on the agents service charges should be
 shown separately in the receipt).  Service charges of PSP / RSP includes booking as well as cancellation
 transaction. Mandates for the PSP
  PSP should ensure proper antecedent and character / credential
 verification before appointing RSP and keep a record of these
 documents and should be able to provide them to IRCTC as and when
 required. A declaration to this effect has to be submitted by the PSP at
 the time of registration.  It will be obligatory on the part of the PSP to control the activities of
 their RSP. The PSP will be equally liable for all civil and criminal
 liabilities of their RSP.  PSPs with or without web services should keep a close watch on the
 conduct of their RSPs and in case of receipt of complaint against any W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 76 of 99 RSP by the customers then the agent ID should be deactivated at the
 operators end immediately under intimation to IRCTC.
  PSP must monitor each RSPs activity. PSPs will have to conduct
 decoy checks on 1% of its RSPs every month. Penalty of Rs.50,000/-
 multiplied by shortfall of decoy checks in a month will be imposed on
 PSPs.  PSPs should educate their RSPs regarding rules and regulation of
 IRCTC or about ticket booking software (in case of web services
 agents) etc.
 Dont's for the Service providers
  Sharing of access credentials to web services is strictly prohibited.
 Transfer of agent ID given to RSPs by IRCTC or PSPs is Prohibited
 and IRCTC will initiate action against the agent group if found guilty
 in such matters. Punitive action will be initiated as mentioned in the
 Annexure „A‟.  RSPs should not book tickets using any other wrong ID except only
 through IRCTC provided agent ids. RSPs if found to be using wrong
 id, then their ids will be deactivated immediately. Punitive action will
 be initiated as mentioned in the Annexure „A‟.  Book of benami e-tickets is strictly prohibited (anybody doing so will
 be prosecuted). As per clause 3.7 (B2B) and 4.5 (Internet café) agreement(s) which
 inter alia provides that the PSP shall be equally liable for all civil
 and criminal liabilities of their RSP. If at any stage the sub-RSP of
 the PSP indulges in any fraudulent activity like (but not restricted to)
 collection of excess charges, alteration of fares on the tickets, issue W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 77 of 99 of duplicate ticket etc. Then the PSP shall also be liable for such
 activity of their RSPs (and IRCTC) shall be free to take any action
 under civil and criminal law". The said clause will be applicable if
 the mandates are not followed by the PSP / RSP, and following
 punitive action will be taken by also invoking the clause 9 (B2B) and
 10 (Internet café) of agreement(s): such as faking as a normal user 2. The RSP ID of such outlet
 and booking on website using will be permanently
 multiple user IDs, Manipulation deactivated
 of ERS, sale of 1 Tickets, 3. Case will also be referred to
 Booking of benami tickets,
 RPF if found indulge in
 Transfer or resale of tickets,
 touting activity using personal
 blocking accommodation giving
 ID
 fictitious names, cancellation of
 ticket without the knowledge of
 customer, Non filing of TDR on
 request of Customer

 Minor Irregularities W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 78 of 99 1. Non compliance of other A penalty of upto Rs.5,000/- mandates Any agent outlet, if per complaint and in the first
 found without proper display of instance RSP will be given a
 sign board indicating the IRCTC warning and in the second
 instructions viz Service charges, instance RSP ID will be
 Payment gateway charges, permanently deactivated.
 without registration certificate
 being displayed, non issuance o
 money receipt etc.,

 In the case "Address Mis- match" of the agent

 Any advertisement in print or
 press media without prior
 permission from IRCTC in
 writing. Misuse of IRCTC
 LOGO without prior permission
 from IRCTC 2. If any of the RSPs found not IRCTC will deactivate such
 booking tickets (non-transacting Sub user ID permanently with
 agents) for six months after the consent of the PSP
 registration 3. If PAN No is not provided by Such RSP agency will be
 any existing PSP or RSP within disabled till such time the PAN
 the stipulated time. No. is provided to IRCTC. For irregularities committed by RSP, necessary action will be
 taken against respective PSP also in addition to whatever action
 (like deactivation of RSP as decided by competent authority)
 taken against RSP. However, in case of criminal activity of
 RSP, necessary action will be taken by IRCTC through RPF
 against RSP. 105. From the above, it can therefore be concluded that IRCTC has been

mandated by the Ministry of Railways (MOR) with a sole aim of developing

and implementing advanced technologies for the purpose of modernizing its

ticketing processes. MOR is further seen to be interested in developing its

business in the said area by utilizing technology and further aims to market

the expertise so developed. IRCTC has been authorized to sell tickets on its

digital platforms and for the same, it may develop suitable systems and

processes while also engaging third party entities to maximize business. The

responsibility to maintain, operate and with time upgrade the said systems and

processes rests solely with IRCTC. IRCTC has been given the exclusive

mandate to sell tickets to prospective travelers (which is in addition to MOR

operated ticket counters). 106. Under concerned policies, IRCTC has been permitted to engage certain

PSPs, who act as its agents, in furtherance of the stated objectives being the

provision of IT enabled ticketing services to the masses. The PSP is

mandated to follow all the extant rules and regulations relating to rail

ticketing set in place by IRCTC. The PSP may further appoint RSPs to

maximize its own reach while also further acting on and aiding the aforenoted

objective. 107. It is, however, seen that IRCTC obligates the PSP to control the

activities of its RSPs while also ensuring that the RSP complies with the W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 81 of 99 extant rules and regulations set in place by IRCTC. Accordingly, in their

agreement PSPs and RSPs mutually agree that both parties shall at all times

comply with applicable rules and regulations of IRCTC. 108. IRCTC has set in place detailed guidelines with regard to the standards

of confidentiality to be followed by both the PSPs and RSPs relating to login

and access credentials provided to them, the violation of which entails various

penalties and punitive action. It is to be noted that even in case of a violation

by an RSP, a PSP would be held equally liable and proceeded against. 109. In the agreement between RSPs and M/s Stelling (RailYatri) it is

recorded M/s Stelling is merely a business facilitator that provides an e-

commerce platform to its customers for efficient transaction of business and

wider reach and access into the market. For the said purpose, M/s Stelling has

developed its own set of technologies and processes and now markets the

same to prospective customers, which are the RSPs in the present matter. 110. RailYatri and the RSP have also mutually agreed that the RSP shall at

all times comply with extant IRCTC rules and regulations and that under no

circumstances shall the RSP ever share or disclose its login IDs or access

credentials provided to it by IRCTC. 111. Having noted the relevant provisions of the Rules / Regulations and the

Contract, before I answer the rival contentions of the learned counsel for the

parties on merit, it is necessary to deal with the submission raised by Mr. W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 82 of 99 Majithia on the maintainability of the writ petition in the absence of any

privity between the petitioners herein and the IRCTC. 112. The pleas advanced by the petitioners including M/s Stelling

Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and RSPs are that (1) the IRCTC has made the

agreement executed by them ineffective and (2) the access credentials of

RSPs to do the e-ticket booking are being / have been deactivated by IRCTC

by giving a sham notice to PSP. It is clear, both the pleas of the petitioners

are directed against the IRCTC. I note complaints have been filed by IRCTC

against M/s Stelling Technologies Pvt. Ltd. with the Delhi Police alleging that

they are carrying on illegal activity of booking and providing meals in trains

and e-ticket booking. That apart, lot of correspondence was exchanged

between M/s. Stelling Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and the IRCTC, which includes

a notice issued by the IRCTC calling upon M/s Stelling Technologies Pvt.

Ltd. to stop booking e-tickets and stop directing passengers to RSPs. 113. Similarly, with regard to the RSPs, there is no dispute that there is no

privity between IRCTC and RSPs. But at the same time, it cannot be denied

that the relationship between IRCTC, PSP and RSP is regulated by the Rules

and Regulations and the do‟s and don‟ts issued by IRCTC. It cannot be

denied that the access credentials have been deactivated by imposing a

penalty on the PSP by the IRCTC and the effect thereof is being felt by the

RSPs. In effect, the petitioners have a grievance against IRCTC. So, surely if W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 83 of 99 they have grievance, they are within their right to approach against IRCTC,

which they have done in these petitions. There is no dispute that IRCTC is a

"State" within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India and a

writ petition is maintainable. In so far as the reliance placed by Mr. Majithia

on the Judgments of the Supreme Court, in the case of Joshi Technologies

International Inc. (supra) is concerned, the Supreme Court held that if the

rights are purely of private character, no mandamus can be issued, even if the

respondent is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of

India as the other condition which has to be satisfied is that there should be a

public duty involved. In the case in hand, it is the IRCTC‟s own case that the

rules / regulations / policy and guidelines have been violated. So, the

violation of the rules / regulations and policy surely suggest a public law

element. In so far as the judgment in the case of Anandi Mukta Sadguru

Shree Mukatajee Vandas Swami Suvarna Jayanti Mahotsav Smarak Trust

and Ors. v. V.R. Rudani and Ors. and Ors. 1989 2 SCC 691 is concerned,

the same is not of any help to IRCTC as in that case , the Supreme Court held

no limitation can be put on the High Courts to issue writ of mandamus as the

power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is wide enough to

include issuance of writs in the nature of prerogative writs. Similarly, in Mani Subrat Jain Jain and Ors. v. State of Haryana and ors. 1977 1 SCC

486, the issue was relatable to appointment of appellants as Additional W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 84 of 99 District and Sessions Judge. The Supreme Court has held that they had no

locus standi to file the petitions as they were not appointed and they had no

right to be appointed. In other words, the Supreme Court held that there has to

be a judicially enforceable as well as legally protectable right in existence,

before a writ of mandamus can be issued. The Judgment in Kotak Mahindra

Bank v. Bank of Baroda and Ors. MANU/DE/0214/2016 has no relevance to

the facts of this case inasmuch as this court held whether the Kotak Mahindra

Bank has any cause of action is doubtful and this court has also held when the

case is not free from factual disputes for which reason also the invocation of

writ remedy is not an appropriate remedy. Similarly in Rajasthan State

Industrial Development and Investment Corporation (supra) the Supreme

Court held that a writ cannot be issued to enforce contractual obligations and

moreover when there is an alternative statutory remedy available, a writ

petition cannot be entertained. In so far as K.K. Saxena (supra) is concerned , the said judgment is distinguishable on facts, inasmuch as it was held by the

Supreme Court that it was not funded by the Government nor it was

discharging any function under any statute. Suffice it to state that IRCTC is a

"State" within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India and is

involved in the process of e-ticketing pursuant to an authorization given by

the Railways and has framed rules and regulations for the said purpose and it

is also their case that the said rules / regulations and policies have been W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 85 of 99 violated by the RSPs and M/s. Stelling. Hence the petitions per-se, are

maintainable and the plea of Mr. Majithia in that regard needs to be rejected. 114. A plea of alternative remedy of Arbitration has also been taken by

Mr. Majithia inasmuch as there is an arbitration clause between the RSPs and

M/s. Stelling and if there is any inter se dispute, the RSP must invoke the said

arbitration clause. Such a plea does not appeal to the Court. Firstly there is

no inter-se dispute between them as they both are contesting the action of

IRCTC, to order de-activation of access credentials of the RSPs. Secondly,

even if the matter goes to the arbitration, it is the action of the IRCTC which

needs to be tested and IRCTC being not a party to arbitration agreement, there

cannot be any adjudication of that aspect in any arbitration proceedings

between M/s. Steeling and RSP as IRCTC is a third party. I am of the view

that such a plea needs to be rejected. 115. Having answered the objections regarding maintainability, the issue

which needs to be decided is whether the petitioner (M/s Stelling

Technologies Pvt. Ltd.) through its e-commerce platform Railyatri.in, is

merely bringing RSP and the customer together for the purpose of booking of

e-tickets as contended by the M/s. Stelling and as such is a permissible

activity. The case of M/s. Stelling is that it acts as a facilitator or go between

the customer and seller of the tickets (RSPs) through its digital platform. It is

not involved in the business of booking train tickets. The payment made by W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 86 of 99 the customer is forwarded by the M/s. Stelling to the RSP, who then forwards

it to the IRCTC. The ultimate booking is done by the RSP concerned. The

M/s Stelling‟s platform charges nominal amount equivalent to 1.25% of the

ticket as a convenience fee for use of its e-commerce market place. The price

of this ticket is exactly according to the rates prescribed by the IRCTC. It is

the case of M/s Stelling that the RSP does not charge over and above what is

prescribed by the Railways and M/s Stelling‟s platform has prominently

disclaimed on its portal that it is an independent self funded entity and is in no

way connected with IRCTC. It conducts its business directly in compliance

with the extant Rules and Regulations set in place by the Government /

Regulatory entity. 116. The case of the RSPs is on similar lines that the M/s Stelling is only a

facilitator of business which is not actually involved in the ticket booking

process. They state that there is no privity of contract between RSPs and

IRCTC. They deny that they have shared the access credentials with

M/s. Stelling or transferred their IDs. They also charge the rates as prescribed

by the IRCTC. The electronic reservation slip as also the receipt of the

money paid are issued to the customers in the prescribed format. 117. Having noted the case of the petitioners, assuming that the platform

railyatri.in of M/s Stelling is only a facilitator and the access credentials are

not shared with M/s. Stelling, still the creation of a platform by M/s Stelling W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 87 of 99 for a customer to use and access, through RSP, the network created by IRCTC

from where the ticket is booked, would be impermissible. There is also no

dispute that IRCTC has entered into an MoU with the Railways for the

purpose of e-ticketing. The MoU authorizes the IRCTC to exploit the internet

and increase its outreach to sell e-tickets. The IRCTC has developed various

business models in that regard. There is no dispute that to operate the

Scheme, IRCTC had entered into contracts with commercial entities. The

entities have paid money to be associated with IRCTC. The entities are called

PSPs. These PSPs appoint RSPs. The RSPs are the retail outlets as the name

itself suggests. It is not disputed that the petitioner M/s Stelling which has a

platform railyatri.in is neither a PSP nor an RSP and has no privity of contract

with IRCTC. No money has been paid by M/s Stelling to IRCTC / PSP to be

involved in the process of e-ticket booking or to be integrated in the network

initiated / developed by the IRCTC, which according to this Court is a pre-

requisite to be involved in any manner in the process of e-ticketing and for

which integration fee and Annual maintenance fee is required to be paid.

Neither the petitioner M/s Stelling nor the RSPs have challenged the MoU /

relationship between the Railways / IRCTC on any ground. Further, the RSPs

have not challenged, the policy and the rules framed by IRCTC for governing

the e-ticketing Scheme. So, this Court proceeds on the premise that IRCTC

has the exclusive right with regard to e-ticketing. The IRCTC has framed W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 88 of 99 rules / regulations / policy, to govern the relationship between it and a

commercial concern in that regard. It is the case of M/s. Stelling‟s that it has

provided a virtual cloud telephony PBX service for the benefit of RSPs to

automatically connect incoming call from a potential customer. The

petitioner clarifies that the call made by the customer is never handled by the

petitioner but is in fact automatically routed to an RSP that might be available

at a given time also suggest that, through the e-commerce platform created by

the M/s. Stelling a customer is connected to the RSP therefrom to PSP and the

network of the IRCTC, which is impermissible as there is a use of

Technology for gaining unfair advantage. That even otherwise, it is conceded

/ admitted by petitioner M/s. Stelling that railyatri.in also accepts money for

booking the e-ticket directly from the customer. The fact that M/s. Stelling

through railyatri.in is collecting money itself suggests, selling of ticket by it.

The scheme evolved by the IRCTC, as stated by Mr. Jain, appearing for

RSPs, is that e-ticket booking is done on the website created by a PSP which

is a mirror image of IRCTC website and the payment is made on the PSPs

website, which functions as an online wallet, whereas, the payment in the

Railyatri app is made in the wallet of M/s Stelling. In fact, it was the

submission of Mr. Bhushan that the payment made by the customer is

forwarded by M/s. Stelling (Railyatri.in) to the RSP who then forwarded it to

IRCTC. So, it is clear that there is a deviation from the procedure as W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 89 of 99 contemplated under the scheme evolved by the IRCTC. This I say so, in view

of the following clauses in agreement executed between the RSPs and the

M/s. Stelling:- xxx xxx xxx 2. RailYatri under this agreement is an intermediary, and
 acts like a facilitator between the traveller (Buyer) and seller
 (Travel Agent), to provide support services on its digital and
 electronic platforms, like logistics, call center and payment
 collection, to the Travel Agent, as permitted by the Government
 of India‟s March, 2016 Guidelines for conducting E-commerce. xxx xxx xxx

 RailYatri will only provide marketing information, payment,
 communication and support services to Travel Agent. services from Buyer, which RailYatri will then remit to Travel
 Agent as Settlement Amount. RailYatri will pay the Travel Agent
 the ticket booking amount and all authorized amounts charged
 by the Travel Agent to the Buyer like IRCTC‟s service charges,
 agent‟s service charges. within the time frame mentioned in RBI notification RBI/2009- W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 90 of 99 10/231 DPSS.CO.PD.No. 1102/02.14.08/2009-10 dated
 November 24, 2009. Agent to RailYatri will be adjusted in settlement amount.
 RailYatri will directly make a refund to the Buyer." 118. That apart, even as per the agreement between M/s Stelling and RSPs

the bookings, cancellations and railyatri special offer to buyer stipulate as

under:- 119. The said stipulation is contrary to the mandate of Rules and

Regulations framed by the IRCTC inasmuch as it is RSP, who must refund

the money as per cancellation rules to the customer immediately in all cases.

The Rules and Regulations also stipulate whenever the cancellation ticket

amount / the TDR refund amount which is credited back in the PSP‟s / RSP‟s W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 92 of 99 account used for ticket booking, could not be refunded to the customer due to

various reasons, the money must be returned to IRCTC. The refund should be

made to the customer within3-5 days from the date of receipt from the

IRCTC. 120. Mr. Majithia is justified in saying that unauthorized agents getting

involved in collection of money for ticket booking process and non-refunding

in case of cancellation are enormous is appealing. The plea of Mr. Majithia

that if such activities are not controlled, huge amounts of public money are

susceptible of being siphoned of / misappropriated, is also appealing. In fact,

a reference is made to the case of one Raj Kumar Gupta who claimed to have

booked a ticket from railyatri.in app, but the refund for the same had not been

received back upon cancellation despite a significant period having passed

and during enquiry it was found that the said ticket had been booked by an

RSP M/s. Sahara Tours and Travels Hub registered in the name of Mr. Vijay

Tiwary and registered with the PSP M/s. G.I. Technology Pvt. Ltd. In fact, it

is conceded by M/s. Stelling that delays have happened only in few cases

depending upon specific facts and circumstances. The IRCTC has also given

reference of the case of Mr. Keppuvergan, who booked ticket from Madras to

Nizammuddin, but later on after canceling it, was not given the refund by the

petitioner Deepak Suri. In effect, a further retail outlet has been created by

the RSPs with their tie up with the M/s. Stelling. As per the Rules and W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 93 of 99 Regulations, the retail outlet can be at the level of the RSP only. 121. The plea of Mr. Bhushan that the facility provided by M/s. Stelling is

to avoid the botheration of the customer to go to the RSP physically and book

the ticket as the same can be booked from the confines of his house appears

appealing on a first blush, but on a deeper consideration of the methodology

evolved by M/s Stelling, through its platform railyatri.in connecting the

customer to the RSPs and booking tickets by collecting money in its wallet

and earning revenue, is surely unauthorized. No such arrangement is

contemplated as per the Rules and Regulations / Policy. 122. Insofar as the submission of Mr. Sanjay Jain, on the plea of Mr.

Majithia that the supply of e-tickets on the payment of fare on account of such

tickets being its exclusive property with proprietary rights, that the same is

erroneous and misconceived as IRCTC has no right to refuse supply of tickets

except in circumstances as prescribed in Section 56 and Section 50 of the

Railway Act is concerned, the plea of Mr. Majithia has to be understood from

the perspective that in terms of authorization given by the railways to IRCTC,

it is IRCTC which has the exclusive right to supply e-tickets on payment of

fare to the public at large but discretion of IRCTC is only to the extent, to

whom the task of supply of e-tickets be delegated to, on its behalf, in terms of

the Rules and Regulations / Policy framed by it. At the same time, it must be

said that the IRCTC has no right to choose the customer / consumer for W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 94 of 99 supply of e-tickets to travel in the railways. 123. At this stage, I may also deal with one of the plea of Mr. Majithia that

IRCTC has intellectual property right over the website as it is the original

creation of the IRCTC. In this regard, Mr. Sanjay Jain had, by referring to the

PSP Agreement and API Agreement, contended that IRCTC‟s website is not

accessed by the railyatri.in as, no access credentials are shared by the RSPs

and the IPR are not assignable and Clauses 3.1, 3.4 and 3.7 contemplate, the

website can be accessed for lawful purposes and in no way deal with

infringement of IPR rights. Suffice it would be to state, the said argument of

Mr. Majithia would only hold good if it is proved that the access credentials

are shared by the RSPs and M/s Stelling is unauthorizedly accessing the

website of IRCTC and booking the tickets, as the booking of the tickets would

mean that they are accessing the website of the IRCTC. 124. The stand of Mr. Majithia that M/s Stelling is usurping the role of

Service Providers under the B2C Scheme, has been controverted by Mr.

Bhushan by stating that there is a difference between the operations

undertaken by such Service Providers and M/s Stelling through Railyatri as

the Service Providers book tickets themselves whereas M/s Stelling is merely

a platform for bringing together the customer and the RSP and the ticket is

booked by the RSP. This submission of Mr. Bhushan is not at all appealing.

In effect, by resorting to the process of providing the platform to the W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 95 of 99 customers to reach the RSP, and also M/s Stelling through railyatri.in is in

fact collecting the ticket fare, the same shall have the effect of booking the

tickets, that too without paying integration charges / AMC to IRCTC. Surely,

this shall undermine the role of service providers under B2C. 125. The plea of Mr. Bhushan that the Railway tickets are only license to

travel in trains and by no stretch of imagination can be construed to be the

property of IRCTC and if M/s Stelling get some profit indirectly through the

sale of tickets, it cannot mean such benefit arise out of unauthorized use of

IRCTC‟s property, is a fallacious argument, overlooking the factual aspect

that IRCTC has evolved the network for booking tickets to travel in Railways,

pursuant to an exclusive authorization by the Railways. The same has to be in

the manner, stated by IRCTC, through its rules and regulations / Policy and

not by way of an arrangement entered into by the RSPs. The Railways,

having also outsourced the process of ticketing to IRCTC, the IRCTC has

stepped into the shoes of the Railways, the activity of booking of tickets and

earning revenue, therefrom, cannot be done without authorization from Indian

Railways / IRCTC. It would be an irrelevant plea that full value of the ticket

is being paid to IRCTC, when such an activity itself is unauthorized. It is also

relevant to note the submission of Ms. Isha Bhalla, appearing for respondent

no.2 (PSP) in W.P.(C) 8625/2017, that in the face of the financial

commitments made by a PSP for being associated with IRCTC permitting a W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 96 of 99 third party to avail commercial advantage through back door of private

agreement with an RSP is a case of unjust enrichment at the cost of PSP, is

appealing. 126. The plea of Mr. Bhushan that the petitioner cannot be excluded from

entering into any ancillary or side business venture, which has not been

declared as a State monopoly under Article 19(6) of the Constitution of India

is concerned, suffice it to state that there is no restriction imposed on the right

of the petitioner to carry out any business, trade or profession. In fact, the

petitioner M/s Stelling, if it chooses to carry out the trade of e-ticket booking,

it can do so, subject to it fulfilling all the conditions that have been put by the

IRCTC under the Rules and Regulations / Policy framed by it. But it cannot

unauthorizedly do it, in terms of agreement with RSPs, by collecting the

money itself. 127. Insofar as the submission of Mr. Sanjay Jain, justifying the RSP‟s

contract with M/s Stelling Technologies Pvt. Ltd, by stating that the process

undertaken is simpler than the one that is available to a prospective customer

i.e. by logging on to IRCTC website, is concerned, the same in any case

cannot justify the relationship when the same is in violation of the Rules and

Regulations and Policy of IRCTC, which the RSPs are required to adhere to.

The two violations, pointed by Mr. Majithia in this case are (1) the customer

is not approaching the RSP directly, and (2) the payment is being collected by W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 97 of 99 the petitioner M/s Stelling itself. 128. Insofar as the plea of Mr. Jain that the "access credential", is not a

software, which can be hacked or illegally shared, is concerned, the said plea

is inconsequential, when the relationship as entered into between M/s Stelling

Technologies Pvt. Ltd and RSPs could not have been entered into at all. The

plea of Mr. Jain that it is nowhere provided that a prospective customer has to

approach the RSP for the purpose of booking a ticket, is factually incorrect

inasmuch as the rules and regulations clearly provide that "ticket should be

booked only when the customer approaches". The word "approaches" must

be understood in terms of the rules / regulations / Policy framed by IRCTC to

mean only when a customer approaches the RSPs physically and not by

online through app railyatri.in. This I say so when a customer approaches the

RSP physically, it is the RSP, who books the ticket by collecting the payment

in the wallet of PSP unlike when he approaches online, in which case, the

payment is collected by M/s Stelling, which is impermissible. 129. On the plea of violation of principle of natural justice, there is no

dispute that any action, which entails civil consequences must be preceded by

a show cause notice, eliciting reply from the effected party. But in these writ

petitions, in view of the admitted position that the RSPs do not deny, they

have entered into an arrangement with M/s Stelling Technologies Pvt. Ltd in

the manner depicted above, which, according to this Court, is impermissible W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 98 of 99 and also the fact, this Court has not given any finding that RSPs have shared

access credentials with M/s. Stelling, it may not be necessary to remand the

matter back to IRCTC, for a fresh consideration, when the factum of

agreement between RSPs and M/s. Stelling has not been disputed. 130. In view of aforesaid conclusion, the reliance placed by Mr. Sanjay Jain

on the judgments of the Supreme Court in the case of Gorkha Security

Services (supra), Reliance Telecom Ltd. (supra) and Smt. S.R.

Venkataraman (supra) are distinguishable on facts. 131. In view of my conclusion above, I am of the view that the present writ

petitions are without any merit and the same are dismissed.

CM No. 40141/2017 in W.P.(C) 9864/2017
CM No. 35240/2017 in W.P.(C) 8562/2017
CM No. 35264/2017 in W.P.(C) 8570/2017
CM No. 35340/2017 in W.P.(C) 8598/2017
CM No. 35398/2017 in W.P.(C) 8613/2017
CM No. 35431/2017 in W.P.(C) 8625/2017
 Dismissed as infructuous. V. KAMESWAR RAO, J
APRIL 05, 2019/ak/aky/jg W.P.(C) No. 9864/2017 and connected matters Page 99 of 99