(Per Hon'ble Sri Justice K. Lakshman)

 Heard Sri A. Venkatesh, learned Senior Counsel, representing

Sri R.Anurag, learned Counsel for petitioners and Sri Swaroop Oorilla,

learned Special Government Pleader, representing Additional Advocate

General, for respondents. 2. This Writ Petition is filed by the petitioner to declare/quash the

Preventive Detention Order dated 02.06.2021 bearing No. 65/PD

CELL/CYB/2021 issued and also proclamation notice dated 24.01.2023

bearing No.65/PD.Cell/CYB/ 2021-23 issued by 2nd respondent, as

illegal. FACTS:- 3. The petitioner engaged in the garment trading business in the

State of Maharashtra for the past decade. However, he was surprised to

see proclamation notice dated 24.01.2023 bearing No. 65/PD-

Cell/CYB/2021-23 affixed to the wall of his house in the first week of 4 April 2023. Allegedly, a Preventive Detention order was issued against

him on 02.06.2021, declaring him as a Fake Document Offender under

the Act by Respondent No. 2 herein. 4. The petitioner contends that in the proclamation notice, it is

alleged that notices issued against him have been returned unserved

despite all possible efforts, and he has been wilfully absconding and

concealing himself to evade the execution of the alleged detention order

dated 02.06.2021, thereby obstructing the process of law. 5. Upon perusing the contents of the proclamation notice, he

immediately made efforts to obtain a copy of detention order No. 65

through an Advocate. He had filed an application under the Right to

Information Act, 2005 (hereinafter referred to as the " RTI Act ") to the

Public Information Officer, PD Cell of Respondent No. 2, requesting to

provide the following information: 6. The petitioner states that, subsequently, he was informed that the

RTI application was transferred to the Public Information Officer, ACP

CCRB via C.No.A6/94/RTI/Cyb/2023 dated 20.04.2023. The 2nd

respondent issued a reply dated 05.05.2023, bearing C.No.A-

6/94/RTI/Cyb/2023, stating that the information sought is related to the

Special Branch (SB) and is exempted from furnishing under sub-section

(4) of Section 24 of the RTI Act, 2005, and as per G.O. Ms. No. 667,

General Administration (GPM & AR) Department dated 30.09.2007 of

the Government of Andhra Pradesh. In the reply letter dated 05.05.2023

stated that such information cannot be furnished as it pertains to a third

party and the detention order was still not executed. 7. The petitioner contends that the Preventive Detention order is

causing serious injury to his life and liberty as a citizen. It is an extreme

measure employed by the State when ordinary criminal law is

insufficient to control activities causing disturbance to Public Order.

The State has sufficient remedies available under the general laws for

any omission or commission, and arbitrarily labelling the petitioner as a

fake document offender without specifying the alleged crimes, is unjust.

In the present case, there is no disturbance to Public Order and not

affected the maintenance of Law and Order. Therefore, the order of 6 detention based on a solitary crime and the consequential Preventive

Detention orders are unlawful. 8. The petitioner herein filed W.P.No.32202/2023 challenging the

proclamation notice dated 24.01.2023 in order to procure a copy of

Preventive Detention order. This Court, vide order dated 22.11.2023,

disposed of the same holding as follows: 9. The petitioner approached the 2nd respondent on 06.12.2023.

Respondent No. 2 served a copy of the Preventive Detention order dated

02.06.2021 and the petitioner received a copy of the detention order,

providing an undertaking that he would surrender himself immediately 7 after one week. However, instead of surrendering himself after one

week from 06.12.2023, the petitioner filed the present writ petition on

11.12.2023. 10. Respondents mechanically issued the proclamation notice

without making any attempt to serve the Preventive Detention order.

Mere allegation of creating fake documents does not warrant invoking

the Act by the respondents, which is a gross abuse of statutory power.

Therefore, the Preventive Detention order and proclamation notice

issued are ex-facie illegal and ought to be set aside as the order passed

by Respondent No. 2 is based on false and baseless allegations 11. 2nd respondent filed counter denying the allegations made by

the petitioner and contending as follows:- v. Invoking the provisions of the Act against the petitioner is

 necessary to prevent him from engaging in activities prejudicial to

 the maintenance of Public Order. Ordinary laws under which the

 petitioner is charged are deemed insufficient to curb his alleged

 dangerous and unlawful activities, necessitating his prevention

 under the detention laws. vi. Petitioner was arrested on 20.01.2021 at 1700 hours in Cr.No. 584

 of 2020 and remanded to Judicial Custody on 21.01.2021. The

 petitioner's arrest was regularized in Cr. No. 1021 of 2020

 registered for the offences punishable under Section 420 of IPC 10 and Section 66-C and D of IT Act. Now the petitioner is lodged in

 Dhanbad Prison, Kasturiba Nagar, Jharkhand, in Cr. No. 70 of

 2020 registered for the offences punishable under Section 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120(B) IPC, and Section 66 (C) and 66 (D) of

 IT Act, 2000-2008 of Cyber Crime PS, Dhanbad. vii. In Cr. No. 584 of 2020, the petitioner filed two bail petitions vide

 Crl.M.P.Nos.60 of 2021 and 121 of 2021. The Court granted bail

 imposing certain conditions that he shall execute a personal bond

 for Rs.30,000/- each with two sureties for likesum each. The

 petitioner was also required to appear before the concerned

 Station House Officer every Wednesday between 11:00 am to

 05:00 pm till filing of the charge sheet and furnish the required

 sureties to obtain the release order on 08.03.2021 in Cr. No. 1021

 of 2020. The petitioner filed a bail petition vide Crl M.P.No. 118

 of 2021. The trial Court granted bail imposing certain conditions.

viii. The petitioner was previously involved in three other offenses. Viz: Cr.Nos.107 of 2016 for the offences punishable under

 Sections 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 read with 34 IPC of Cyber

 Crime Police Station, Mumbai; Cr.No.02 of 2020 for the offences

 punishable under Sections 465 , 468 , 471 , 420 IPC, and Section 66 11 (D) and (C) of IT Act, 2000 of Cyber Crime Police Station,

 Thrissur, Kerala, and Cr.No.70 of 2020 for the offences

 punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120 (B) IPC,

 and Section 66 (C) and 66(D) of IT Act, 2000-08 of Cyber Crime

 P.S. Dhanbad. ix. In a series of forgery offenses, including swapping cards of

 unknown persons linked to their bank accounts, resulting in

 substantial financial losses to the public. Considering the bail

 petitions filed by the petitioner in the aforementioned cases and

 the possibility of the petitioner furnishing required sureties for

 release from jail, Respondent No. 2 believes that the petitioner's

 unrestricted movement poses a risk to the society. There is a

 likelihood of the petitioner engaging in similar prejudicial

 activities, such as impersonation and fraudulent financial

 transactions, which could disrupt Public Order. Thus, it is

 necessary to prevent him from doing so through appropriate

 detention. 12. Sri A.Venkatesh, learned Senior counsel appearing for the

petitioner contends as follows:- 13. Sri Swaroop Oorilla, learned Special Government Pleader,

contends as follows:- 14. With the said submissions, he sought to dismiss the present

writ petition. 15. It is relevant to note that vide order dated 22.11.2023, this

Court granted liberty to the petitioner to approach 2nd respondent for

receiving a copy of the Preventive Detention order within a period of

two weeks from that day. The impugned order was suspended for a

period of two weeks. 2nd respondent was also directed to furnish a copy

of the order to the petitioner in case the petitioner approaches him to

receive a copy of the order and also not to arrest the petitioner for a

period of one week subject to the petitioner giving undertaking that he

will surrender himself immediately after expiry of one week. 16. Thus, this Court granted protection to the petitioner for a

period of two weeks. He has filed the present writ petition on

11.12.2023 itself and this Court granted interim order. Therefore, the

said contention of the learned Special Government Pleader that the

petitioner filed the present writ petition without surrendering himself, is

not acceptable. 17. It is further contended that the Preventive Detention Order

was validly issued by the competent authority, which cannot be

invalidated due to the petitioner's evasion of arrest. The petitioner

should not be allowed to yield benefit from his own wrongdoing. 18. Perusal of the impugned Preventive Detention order would

reveal that the 2nd respondent had issued the said order relying on the

following cases:- 19. In both the said crimes, allegations levelled against the

petitioner are that he along with others committed forgery and swapping

of SIM cards of unknown persons which are linked to their bank

accounts resulting in fraudulent transactions thereby cheated the public

to the tune of Rs.2 Crores. 20. It is relevant to note that in both the crimes, learned

Magistrates have granted bail to the petitioner herein on imposition of

certain conditions. The Investigating Officers in the said crimes did not 17 file any applications seeking cancellation of bail on the ground that the

petitioner has violated the conditions imposed in the orders while

granting bail and that the petitioner has committed similar offences

while he was on bail. 21. There is no dispute with regard to the legal position that even

relying on the solitary crime, the Preventive Detention order can be

passed. At the same time, detaining authority has to consider the entire

material placed before him, the allegations levelled against the

petitioner, nature of the allegations and come to a conclusion that the

due to the said acts of the petitioner, there is disturbance to the Public

Order. He has to record the subjective satisfaction in the order. He has to

issue the Preventive Detention order, only to prevent the petitioner from

committing similar offences. 22. In the present case, there is no consideration of the said

aspects, more particularly, the aspect that the 2nd respondent on

consideration of entire material placed before him came to a subjective

satisfaction that due to the acts committed by the petitioner there is

disturbance to the Public Order. 23. As rightly contended by the learned senior counsel for the

petitioner that the aforesaid two crimes were registered basing on the 18 complaints given by two complainants and the criminal law was already

set on motion. 24. As rightly contended by Sri A.Venkatesh, learned Senior

Counsel that the Act extends to the whole of the State of Telangana. 2nd

respondent has no jurisdiction to take cognizance of the

offences/events/incidents outside his jurisdiction. 25. Section 2(p) of the Act deals with the definition of 'Fake

Document Offender' and the same is relevant and is extracted below:- 26. There is no consideration of the said contents by the 2nd

respondent while issuing the impugned detention order. 27. It is also relevant to note that Section 3(3) of the Act says that

the detention order shall remain in force for a period of 12 days after

issuing the said order unless in the meantime it has been approved by

the Government. In the present case, the impugned order is dated

02.06.2021 and it was approved by the Board vide GO.Rt.No.1266,

dated 10.06.2021. Therefore, there is no violation of Section 3(3) of the 19 Act by the respondents as contended by the learned counsel for the

petitioner. 28. Preventive Detention is often referred as Jurisdiction of

Suspicion as held by the Apex Court in State of Maharashtra Vs.

Bhaurao Punjabrao Gawande , 1 It must be remembered that in cases

of preventive detention, no offence is proved and the justification of

such detention is suspicion or reasonable probability. 29. The Constitution Bench of Apex Court in M. Nagaraj Vs.

Union of India 2 observed : 30. Three-Judge Bench of the Apex Court in Pesala Nookaraju v

Govt. of Andhra Pradesh3 examined the essential concept of

preventive detention as: 31. Nine-Judge Constitution Bench of Apex Court in I.R. Coelho

v. State of T.N. 4 observed as follows: 32. In Ashok Kumar v. Delhi Administration,5 the Apex Court

observed that preventive detention is devised to afford protection to

society. The object is not to punish a man for having done something

but to intercept before he does it and to prevent him from doing. 33. In Kuso Sah vs. The State of Bihar6 , the Apex Court held that

infractions of law are bound in some measure to lead to disorder but

every infraction of law does not necessarily result in public disorder. 4 AIR 2007 SC 861 5 (1982) 2 SCC 403 6 (1974) 1 SCC 195 21 The power to detain a person without the safeguard of a court trial is too

drastic to permit a lenient construction and therefore Courts must be

astute to ensure that the detaining authority does not transgress the

limitations subject to which alone the power can be exercised. 34. In Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar , 7 Constitution

Bench of the Apex Court held that the detaining authority has to

consider the disturbance caused by the acts committed by the detenu.

The detaining authority shall consider the distinction between "Public

Order" and "Law and Order" and further held as follows:- from "Law and Order" because the latter undoubtedly takes in all of
 them. Public Order if disturbed, must lead to public disorder. Every
 breach of the peace does not lead to public disorder. When two
 drunkards quarrel and fight there is disorder but not public
 disorder. They can be dealt with under the powers to maintain Law
 and Order but cannot be detained on the ground that they were
 disturbing Public Order. Suppose that the two fighters were of rival
 communities and one of them tried to raise communal passions. The
 problem is still one of Law and Order but it raises the apprehension
 of public disorder. Other examples can be imagined. The
 contravention of law always affects order but before it can be said to
 affect Public Order, it must affect the community or the public at
 large. A mere disturbance of Law and Order leading to disorder is thus 7 (1966) 1 SCR 709 22 not necessarily sufficient for action under the Defence of India Act but
 disturbances which subvert the Public Order are. A District Magistrate is
 entitled to take action under Rule 30(1)(b) to prevent subversion of
 Public Order but not in aid of maintenance of Law and Order under
 ordinary circumstances. 55. It will thus appear that just as "Public Order" in the rulings of this
 Court (earlier cited) was said to comprehend disorders of less gravity
 than those affecting "security of State", "Law and Order" also
 comprehends disorders of less gravity than those affecting Public Order".
 One has to imagine three concentric circles. Law and Order
 represents the largest circle within which is the next circle
 representing Public Order and the smallest circle represents security
 of State. It is then easy to see that an act may affect Law and Order
 but not Public Order just as an act may affect Public Order but not
 security of the State." 35. Similar view was reiterated by the Apex Court in Arun Ghosh

v. State of West Bengal . 8 36. The Apex Court in Harpreet Kaur (Mrs) v. State of

Maharashtra , 9 distinguished difference between 'Public Order' and

'Law and Order' 24. Crime is a revolt against the whole society and an attack on the
 civilisation of the day. Order is the basic need of any organised civilised
 society and any attempt to disturb that order affects the society and the
 community. The distinction between breach of 'Law and Order' and 8 (1970) 1 SCC 98 9 (1992) 2 SCC 177 23 disturbance of 'Public Order' is one of degree and the extent of
 reach of the activity in question upon the society. In their essential
 quality, the activities which affect 'Law and Order' and those which
 disturb 'Public Order' may not be different but in their potentiality
 and effect upon even tempo of the society and public tranquillity
 there is a vast difference. In each case, therefore, the courts have to
 see the length, magnitude and intensity of the questionable activities
 of a person to find out whether his activities are prejudicial to
 maintenance of 'Public Order' or only 'Law and Order'. 37. The Apex Court in Rekha vs. State of Tamil Nadu10 , held that:- 30. Whenever an order under a preventive detention law is challenged
 one of the questions the court must ask in deciding its legality is: was the
 ordinary law of the land sufficient to deal with the situation? If the
 answer is in the affirmative, the detention order will be illegal. In the
 present case, the charge against the detenu was of selling expired drugs
 after changing their labels. Surely the relevant provisions in the Penal
 Code and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act were sufficient to deal with this 10 (2011) 5 SCC 244 24 situation. Hence, in our opinion, for this reason also the detention order
 in question was illegal." 38. In Kanu Biswas v. State of W.B. , 11 the Apex Court relying on Ram Manohar Lohia (supra) noted that preventive detention can only

be invoked in cases of breach of Public Order. The Court explained the

difference between Law and Order and Public Order by stating that

Public Order is said to be affected when the action of the detenu is in the

nature of adversely affecting the even tempo of life of the community

which causes a general disturbance of public tranquility. The relevant

paragraphs are extracted below: (1972) 3 SCC 831 25 39. In Sushanta Kumar Banik v. State of Tripura,12 the Apex

Court held that the preventive detention is a serious invasion of personal

liberty and the normal methods open to a person charged with

commission of any offence to disprove the charge or to prove his

innocence at the trial are not available to the person preventively

detained and, therefore, in prevention detention jurisprudence, whatever

little safeguards the Constitution and the enactments authorizing such

detention provide assume utmost importance and must be strictly

adhered to. 40. In Vijay Narain Singh v. State of Bihar , 13 a three Judge

Bench of the Apex Court had an occasion to deal with the expression

'habitually' and held that the expression 'habitually' would mean

'repeatedly' or 'persistently' implying a thread of continuity, stringing

together similar repetitive acts, and a single act or omission would not

characterize as an act of 'habitual'. The Apex Court was of the opinion

that to qualify as a 'habit', a person must have grown accustomed to

leading a life of crime, whereby it would be a force of habit, inherent or 12 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1333 13 (1984) 3 SCC 14 26 latent, in an individual with a criminal instinct, with a criminal

disposition of mind, that makes him as dangerous to society in general. 41. In Banka Sneha Sheela v. State of Telangana , 14 the Apex
Court held as under: 42. In Mallada K. Sri Ram vs. State of Telangana 15, upon

examination of the facts of the case, the Apex Court held in paragraph

No.12 as follows: 14 43. The Apex Court held that a mere apprehension of a breach of

Law and Order is not sufficient to meet the standard of adversely

affecting the "maintenance of Public Order". Referring to the principle laid down by it in Ram Manohar Lohia (supra) and Banka Sneha

Sheela (supra), the distinction between a disturbance to Law and Order

and a disturbance to Public Order was discussed. 44. The Apex Court and this Court time and again held that the

detention orders shall be passed in rarest of rare cases that too, to

prevent the detenu from committing similar offences which may disturb

the Public Order. Also that there is a vast difference between "Law and

Order" and "Public Order". The offences which are committed against a

particular individual fall within the ambit of "Law and Order". It is only

when the public at large is adversely affected by the criminal activities 28 of a person, the conduct of a person is said to disturb the "Public Order".

Moreover, individual cases can be dealt with by the criminal justice

system. Therefore, there is no need for the detaining authority to invoke

the provisions of the Act, 1986 for passing order of detention against an

individual. Invoking of such law adversely affects the fundamental right

of personal liberty which is guaranteed and protected by Article 21 of

the Constitution of India. The powers of preventive detention are

exceptional and even draconian. Tracing their origin to the colonial era,

they have been continued with strict constitutional safeguards against

abuse. Article 22 of the Constitution was specifically inserted and

extensively debated in the Constituent Assembly to ensure that the

exceptional powers of preventive detention do not devolve into a

draconian and arbitrary exercise of state authority. The case at hand is a

clear example of non-application of mind to material circumstances

having a bearing on the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority. 45. In Icchu Devi Choraria vs. Union of India 16, the Apex Court

the judicial commitment to strike down illegal detention in paragraph

No.5 enumerated as in under; 16 (1980) 4 SCC 531 29 "5. .... The burden of showing that the detention is in accordance with
 the procedure established by law has always been placed by this Court on
 the detaining authority because Article 21 of the Constitution provides in
 clear and explicit terms that no one shall be deprived of his life or
 personal liberty except in accordance with procedure established by law.
 This constitutional right of life and personal liberty is placed on such
 a high pedestal by this Court that it has always insisted that
 whenever there is any deprivation of life or personal liberty, the
 authority responsible for such deprivation must satisfy the court that
 it has acted in accordance with the law. This is an area where the
 court has been most strict and scrupulous in ensuring observance
 with the requirements of the law, and even where a requirement of
 the law is breached in the slightest measure, the court has not
 hesitated to strike down the order of detention or to direct the
 release of the detenu even though the detention may have been valid
 till the breach occurred. The court has always regarded personal
 liberty as the most precious possession of mankind and refused to
 tolerate illegal detention, regardless of the social cost involved in the
 release of a possible renegade." 46. In a different context, in Sama Aruna vs. State of

Telangana17 while considering the circumstances of preventive

detention and the prognosis to be adopted by the detaining authorities

was enumerated by the Apex Court in paragraph No.16 which is as

follows:- 47. Learned Special Government Pleader relied on the principle laid down by the Apex Court in Additional Secretary to the

Government of India vs. Smt. Alka Subhash Gadia 18 and contended

that this Court cannot interfere with the order at pre-execution stage and

has a limited scope. 48. We have carefully gone through the above observations in Alka Subhash Gadia 's case (supra) and we are of the opinion that the

five grounds mentioned therein on which the Court can set aside the

detention order at the pre-execution stage are only illustrative not

exhaustive as held by the Apex Court in Deepak Bajaj vs State of

Maharashtra 19. Therefore, the contention of the learned Special

Government Pleader that the present writ petition is not maintainable at

a pre-execution stage is unsustainable. 18 1992 (Suppl.1) SCC 496 19 WRIT PETITION (CRL.) NO.77 OF 2008, Supreme Court of India. 31 49. The Apex Court in Lahu Shrirang Gatkal vs State of

Maharashtra 20 while dealing with an issue of non-mentioning the

duration of detention, after considering the principle in Cherukuri Mani

vs. Chief Secretary to Government of A.P. 21, held as follows:- section (2) of Section 3 prescribes a thing to be done in a particular
 manner following a particular procedure. Therefore, the proviso to sub-
 section (2) of Section 3 envisages a period to be specified in the order
 with a maximum cap of six months at the first instant. From the above
 analysis, it is clear that respondent No. 3 could not have passed such
 a blanket order of detention without specifying the period of
 detention, as has been done in this case." 50. In view of the above settled law, coming to the case on hand,

perusal of the detention order issued by respondent No.2 and the

subsequent approval order from Government, it is evident that there is

no mention of the duration of the detention. Thus, both the said orders

passed by the relevant authorities are not in accordance with the

provisions of law. 51. It is regrettable that despite the directives of the Apex Court and

this Court, preventive detention continues to be routinely invoked by the 20 (2017) 13 SCC 519 21 (2015) 13 SCC 722 32 authorities in the State of Telangana. As stated supra, preventive

detention should only be used in the most exceptional circumstances. It

is only when an individual's actions have the potential to affect Public

Order that preventive detention may be warranted. This Court has

observed on numerous occasions that authorities often fail to

differentiate between actions that impact Law and Order and those that

impact Public Order. Therefore, it is imperative that the officers

responsible for issuing detention orders are properly educated about the

severe nature of preventive detention. Additionally, it is expected that

authorities will accurately distinguish between situations involving Law

and Order and those involving Public Order before ordering detention. 52. In Ameena Begum vs. State of Telangana 22, the Apex Court

issued guidelines to be examined by any Constitutional Court when

called upon to test the legality of the detention order and the said

guidelines are as follows:- 53. In similar circumstances, this Court vide order dated 14.06.2023

in W.P.No.8486 of 2023 after elaborately referring to catena of

principles laid down by the Apex Court, issued the following

directions:- 54. As discussed supra, there is no consideration of the said

aspects in the present case while issuing impugned detention order by

2nd respondent. 55. Even after issuance of the said directions by this Court, the

State is issuing Preventive Detention orders in a mechanical manner

without due consideration of the said directions. 56. In catena of judgments, both the Apex Court and this Court

have consistently distinguished between "Law and Order" and "Public

Order." Offences that target specific individuals fall under the category

of "Law and Order." It is only when the criminal activities of an 36 individual adversely affect the public at large that their conduct is

deemed to disturb "Public Order." Moreover, individual cases can be

addressed by the criminal justice system without the need for resorting

to the draconian preventive detention laws against an individual. The

invocation of such laws undermines the fundamental right to personal

liberty guaranteed and protected by Article 21 of the Constitution of

India. 57. Coming to the case on hand, though the detenu was released on

bail on 08.03.2021, the detention order was passed only on 02.06.2021.

In fact, if the detenu was absconding and was not available for the

service of the Preventive Detention order, the authorities could have

taken steps for cancellation of the bail and for forfeiture of the surety

amount deposited. Admittedly, no such recourse has been taken. If the

respondents were really sincere and anxious to serve the order of

detention without any delay, it was expected of them to approach the

Court concerned which granted bail for its cancellation, by pointing out

that the detenu had violated the conditions imposed and thereby enforce

his appearance or production as the case may be. Admittedly, no such

steps were taken instead, it was explained that several attempts were

made to serve the copy by visiting his house on many occasions. 37 58. Without availing the said remedies, respondent No.2 cannot

mechanically pass orders of detention and respondent No.1 cannot

approve the same. Thus, there is no consideration of the aforesaid

aspects and the principle laid down by the Apex Court and the Division

Benches of this Court in the aforesaid decisions. Further, the

respondents have to invoke/pass Preventive Detention orders in rarest of

rare cases. 59. In the present case, the Petitioner was granted bail, after giving

an opportunity of hearing to the State. If the Petitioner subsequently

committed any offence or violated any condition of bail, the State ought

to have approached the concerned Court for cancellation of bail.

Issuance of a Preventive Detention order which drastically curtailed the

Petitioner's right to liberty under Article 21 of Constitution of India, is

certainly neither the most suitable nor the least restrictive method of

preventing the Petitioner from engaging in any further alleged criminal

activity. 60. The cases registered against the petitioner are clearly within the

purview of the standard criminal justice system and, if proved beyond

reasonable doubt, can be appropriately punished by a competent court of

law. Therefore, there was no necessity for the detaining authority to 38 issue the impugned detention order. We are of the considered view that

the regular laws of the land were adequate to address this matter, and

thus, resorting to preventive detention laws was unwarranted and is

liable to be set aside. 61. As discussed supra, vide order dated 04.09.2021, 2nd respondent

has revoked Preventive Detention order issued against the co-accused of

the petitioner. 62. In the light of the above discussion, noting that the petitioner

herein is already enlarged on bail on 08.03.2021, this Writ Petition is

allowed and the impugned Preventive Detention Order dated 02.06.2021

bearing No. 65/PD CELL/CYB/2021 and also Proclamation Notice

dated 24.01.2023 bearing No.65/PD.Cell/CYB/2021-23 issued by 2nd

respondent, are hereby set aside. As a sequel thereto, any miscellaneous petitions pending, if any in
this Writ Petition shall stand closed. _________________________
 JUSTICE K. LAKSHMAN

 _________________________
 JUSTICE P.SREE SUDHA
Date:07.06.2024. Note. L.R. copy to be marked. B/o. Vvr