[protected]@tribune.com Bhartesh Singh Thakur Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 11 The ongoing Vigilance Bureau investigation into the post-matric scholarship (PMS) scam has turned murkier, with around 400 students being questioned in Panchkula and Yamunanagar and officials of the OPJS University in Rajasthan under the scanner. The Tribune broke the story on the PMS scam on April 6 and the Chief Minister ordered a Vigilance probe on June 1. In one instance, while investigating a case of scholarship disbursal to 363 students, the Vigilance Bureau questioned 77 students in Panchkula. Of them, 48 confirmed that the account numbers shown against their names were not theirs. In case of 198 students between 2015-16 and 2017-18, money could not be transferred as Aadhaar numbers were not linked to bank accounts. An amount of Rs 12.66 lakh was fraudulently withdrawn. In Yamunanagar, while investigating a case of disbursal of scholarship to 1, 939 students, 260 students confirmed that the bank accounts shown against their names were not theirs. The quantum of fraud was Rs 51.25 lakh though it could be more had the banks not approved disbursal in case of 429 students between 2015-16 and 2017-18 as their Aadhaar number and bank accounts did not match. The police registered an FIR against officials of the Department of Welfare of SCs and BCs, including Deputy Director Anil Kumar, former Deputy Director RS Sangwan and accountant Surender Kumar. In another instance, scholarship amount was released in 2015-16 to 41 SC women of Yamunanagar, who were shown to have taken admission in the OPJS University. When the Vigilance Bureau contacted them, they said they neither took admission nor applied for scholarship. It was found that Gurdev Kaur of Yamunanagar, her daughter Ritik Singh and Mayank Chaudhary of Ghaziabad allegedly got bank accounts of women students opened in the name of providing free computer course and providing free sewing machines. They allegedly kept ATM cards and passbooks of the students. They allegedly got them admitted to the OPJS University. Cheating case against Chairman of OPJS University •	The Vigilance Bureau registered a case of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy against then Chairman of OPJS University JS Dalal, Registrar Jitendra Yadav, Gurdev Kaur, Ritik Singh, Mayank Chaudhary and Mukesh Kumar for duping the state exchequer of Rs 24.51 lakh •	 The Vigilance Bureau had earlier registered a separate FIR for embezzlement of Rs 23.06 crore in Rohtak, Sonepat and Jhajjar while Rs 5.20 crore was returned by banks over suspicious transactions All the leading authorities of this country request an action by cbi .vigilance.crime branch and not by the state police such as Rohtak. Sir Besides the various FIRs attached in an FIR No. 3 loadged by state vigilance Bureau Panchkulla vide FIR no. 3 dt.10.09.2019 under section 120 b[protected] against various persons for a scam against the govt of Haryana for rs 50 crores or so.In this regard I wish to inform that They main King Pin in this Racket are Joginder Dalal and Sarita Kawatsara 133 Ram Gopal Colony Rohtak with the main chain of Jitinder Yadav and Priyanka Kawatsara at OPJS University Churu Rajasthan. The amount you are showing i.e. 50 crore is not even one percent of the amount they have looted from the Public students youths during the past 5 years the amount comes to over 5000 crores of Rs made by Joginder Dalal and Sarita Kawatsara as benami property. They are running the entire racket sitting at Rohtak with the help of some selected looters can be found in the attached FIRS. I have reported this matter to Rohtak police DGP vigilace Haryana as well as DGP Haryana police but all vain except MR. Bali Singh SP vigilance has investigated the matter during their posting at Rohtak now in Hissar but after their transfer all vain. This should not be treated as my complaint but should be treated as commans man complaint demanding justice to the people and genuine students of this country been looted and still being looted by this man Joginder Dalal of Rohtak. No one dare to complaint against him due to his financial political and Police back-up. He has has not only looted grant from the Haryana Govt. but looted grant from the entire states of our country on the name of OBC SC candidates fakely registered in the enrollment and beside this grant he has sold degrees to over one lac fake students by his OPJS university churu and as per his own statement he is having 4 more universities in India and 18 other educational institutes and even a medical college in Haryana. Many proofs has already been sent to you and some are being enclosed for your ready refrence and if you feel that one more Assa Ram Ram Rahim Daud Ibrahim Abu Salem is not come forward then think to take quick action against this man JOGINDER Dalal. I am prem Kinra of Rohtak my numbers are [protected] and [protected] and will always be ready to help the honest vigilance officer to provide him the proof and the details that how he is still looting one to 5 crore rs per day from the govt students people of this country if not killed by this man known as Joginder Dalal. Waiting to hear from you and make his inquiry from Rohtak head quarter and the entire picture will be clear very soon if the investigating person is Honest like. Mr. Bali Singh SP Vigilance Now posted in Hissar. Regards Prem Kinra 650 subhash nagar Rohtak Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (2)