This Criminal Petition, under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. (New Section 482 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023), is

filed by the petitioner/A.9 seeking anticipatory bail in connection

with Crime No.310 of 2024 of Cyber Crime Police Station,

Visakhapatnam District, registered for the offences punishable

under Sections 111 , 319(2) , 318(4) , 61(2) , 336(2) , 336(3) and 340(2) of BNS and Sections 66-C , 66-D of IT Act, 2000-2008 and Sections 3 and 4 of the A.P.Gaming Act. 2. Heard Sri D.Purna Chandra Reddy, the learned counsel for

the petitioner and the learned Assistant Public Prosecutor for

respondent-State. 3. Perused the record. 4. In the grounds it is urged and the learned counsel for

petitioner argued that the petitioner is innocent of the offences

alleged against him and he is falsely implicated in this case. The

allegations are invented with a view to accusing this petitioner so 2 as to bring him to their terms under pressure. On baseless

suspicions the case is foisted against him and the name of the

petitioner is shown in the remand report of other accused and the

remand report of other accused would not indicate any role

played by this petitioner. Even the confessions of co-accused/A.1

and A.2 which are mentioned in the remand report do not even

disclose the name of this petitioner. Since the police are after the

petitioner, he apprehends his arrest on baseless allegations and

seeks pre-arrest bail. 5. Strong objections are raised by the learned Assistant Public

Prosecutor Sri Sandeep on behalf of the State. He argued that

this Crime pertains to an Agent involved in a Cyber Scam which is

termed as "Chinese Scam by the Cyber Crime PS.,

Visakhapatnam. The objective of the Chinese Scam is to cheat

the Indians through various cyber frauds by using Indian nationals

as agents and convert such looted Indian currency to Crypto

currency and ultimately, transfer the amounts to China. 6. So far the investigation agency has identified three types of

agents being employed by the Chinese they are: 3 7. According to prosecution, the modus operandi is in five

steps. Step 1: Secure Bank Accounts (these accounts are called mule

accounts as they are not yet activated). Step 2: Activate bank account. Activating an account means the

secured account details will be shared with Chinese people, who

activate internet banking through their specialized Chinese "TRX

Application", which will enable them to get OTP's and manage

Internet Banking Passwords so that they can further transfer the

amounts credited in their activated accounts from the victim's

account to multiple accounts hassle free without any intervention

of others. (Activated accounts give complete control to the 4 Chinese people or their agents to transfer amounts to multiple

accounts). It is stated that the TRX Application is a payment

gateway which is illegal and not an authorized payment gateway

approved by the Reserve Bank of India. Step 3: Cheating Indians (victims) by making them transfer

amounts from their accounts to activated accounts by using

various Cybercrime frauds. (The main Cybercrime frauds used

against the victims are Fedex Fraud, TRAI Fraud, Stock Market

Fraud, Part time Job Fraud, Task Fraud, Crypto currency Fraud

etc... Step 4: Transferring of the credited amounts from the Victim

accounts to layers of accounts consisting hundreds of activated

accounts in each layer, so that the accounts may not be traced by

the Indian Cyber Crime Police. Step 5: After going through number of layers of accounts, the

Victim amounts will go to one consolidated account, where the

same will be converted to Crypto Currency and from there it will

be finally converted into Chinese Currency. 5 8. In this case upon reliable information that call centers are

being maintained pertaining to this Chinese Scam in some areas

at Visakhapatnam, the Cyber Crime Police, raided a Chinese call

center at Flat No.101, 1st Floor of Sea Smile Apartments, AN

Beach Hospital and FIR vide 310 of 2024 was lodged against 7

accused on 16-10-2024. 9. On the same day, during further course of investigation, the

Cybercrime Police raided a flat situated at Visalakshinagar, near

Forest bungalow Road, where two persons were arrested and

they confessed the involvement of the present petitioner in the

above Crime. 10. During further course of investigation, adding memo was

filed on 04-11-2024, where the petitioner was arrayed as accused

No.9. 11. The petitioner/A-9 is Type-l agent, who is responsible to

secure accounts and activate the accounts for committing the

Chinese scam. He also maintained log sheet of accounts & send

data of accounts & its balances to Chinese people. 6 12. During the raids, the Cyber Crime police seized

approximately 1200 bank accounts, 17 mobiles, 5 TRX Hardware,

9 Laptops, 135 Sim cards, Desktops, Wifi Routers, Electronic

Gadgets Etc., the petitioner/A9 is solely responsible for

maintaining 400 bank accounts and also three gold rings belong

to the petitioner/A9 were found in the raided apartment. As per

the statement of LW-1, who is the house owner of raided

apartment, he gave the apartment to A8-B.Sairam and the

petitioner/ A9 herein on rental basis. As per the statement of A-8,

A-8 and the petitioner/ A9 are friends and as A8 is already in such

activities, he encouraged A9 to join him in the crime. CDR data

clearly shows that the petitioner A9 is in contact with A8, who was

arrested in one of the call centers. 13. Present Stage of Investigation: 14. It is further argued for prosecution that recently Ahmedabad

Police arrested 4 Taiwan people of Chinese nationality connected 7 to this Chinese Scam and their custody in this crime is still

pending. 15. According to prosecution, so far LWs-1 to 11 were

examined by the Cyber Crime Police, who are victims. As per

their statements, sub-agents of Surya Mohan i.e., Sasikanth,

Appikonda Anil, Kaligatla Nagesh, Sujatha, N.Srinivas are

responsible for cheating the victims. Out of 400 accounts, only

10 accounts were back traced. As per the statement of A8, some

Chinese nationals who are arrayed as accused herein, visited the

call centers for inspection and also held meeting with other

accused, where the petitioner/ A9 also participated in the

meeting. 16. The investigation is still in nascent stage. Due to the

petitioner/A9 connections and deep involvement in such national

level cybercrime, custodial interrogation of the petitioner is very

much necessary to know about his sub-agents, location of call

centers and other crucial evidences. 17. In the light of the complex web of crime though initially the

name of the petitioner was not in the reckoning, during progress

of the investigation, the investigation agency has been 8 encountering the name of this petitioner and others. In the light of

what is stated above, there appears prima facie case. Cases of

this nature require interaction for police. In such cases pre-arrest

bail is not suited. 18. In the result, this Criminal Petition is dismissed. ________________________
 Dr. V.R.K.KRUPA SAGAR, J
Date: 13.11.2024
Ivd 9 THE HON'BLE JUSTICE Dr. V.R.K.KRUPA SAGAR

 CRIMINAL PETITION No.7414 of 2024

 Date: 13.11.2024

Ivd