The Criminal Petition has been filed under Sections 480 and 483 of the

Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for brevity 'the BNSS'), seeking to
enlarge the Petitioner/Accused No.2 on bail in Crime No. 124 of 2025 of Cyber
 Crime Police Station, Visakhapatnam District registered against the

 Petitioner/Accused No.2 herein for the offence punishable under Sections
 143(1) , 140(3) , 146 , 308(2) , 127(4) , read with 61(2) of Bharatiya Nyaya
 Sanhita (for brevity 'the BNS'). CASE OF THE PROSECUTION: CONTENTIONS OF THE COUNSEL FOR THE PETITIONER: The Petitioner undertakes to abide by any condition that this Court may

impose while granting bail to the Petitioner. 4.
 It is further submitted that the Petitioner has a permanent place of
residence and there is no likelihood of him absconding or evading the process
of law. The Petitioner has cooperated with the investigation thus far and
assures continued cooperation in future proceedings. It is also urged that the
allegations are of a nature that do not warrant custodial interrogation, and if

any condition is imposed while granting the bail, Petitioner would not violate it; and it is urged to allow the petition. ARGUMENTS OF THE STATE: 5. Per contra, Ms. P. Akhila Naidu, learned Assistant Public Prosecutor

strenuously opposed the grant of bail, contending that the investigation is still
underway and several material witnesses are yet to be examined. It is

submitted that enlargement of the Petitioner on bail at this stage would

seriously hamper the progress of the investigation and may result in non
cooperation from the Petitioner. The prosecution further apprehends that the
 Petitioner, if released
 may influence or intimidate witnesses thereby
 obstructing the course of justice. It is also urged that there exists a real and
 imminent risk of the Petitioner absconding and evading the due process of
 law. Given the gravity of the allegations and the potential threat to the integrity
 of the investigation, it is submitted that the Petitioner does not deserve the
 discretionary relief of bailand it is urged to dismiss the bail petition.
 POINT FOR CONSIDERATIOM- 6.
 In the light of the case of the
 prosecution and the contentions of the
 learned Counsel for both the sides now the point for consideration is: 7. The allegation against the Petitioner/ Accused No.2 is that he with the
connivance and co-operation of the other Accused caused the defacto
complainant and other victims to travel from India to Bankok and from there to
Vietnam illegally for making them to work as Cyber Slaves to the cyber
criminals. The Petitioner / Accused No.2 was arrested on 13.06.2025. The

Petitioner has been in judicial custody for the past 90 days. Material portion of
investigation is completed. So far, no Charge Sheet has been filed. The
Petitioner has got fixed abode. He i
 IS a permanent resident of Madakapalem
Lankalapalem, Paravada Mandal, Anakapalli District.
 CONCLUSION: 8. Considering the nature and gravity of allegation levelled against the

Petitioner, his alleged role played in this case, and the period of detention

undergone by the Petitioner, this Court is inclined to enlarge the Petitioner on

bail with the following stringent conditions: 9. Accordingly, the Criminal Petition is allowed. 1. The Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Visakhapatnam. 2. The Superintendent, Central Jail, Visakhapatnam. 3. The Station House Officer, Cyber Crime P.S., Visakhapatnam District. 4. One CC to SRI. GOLLAPALLI MAHESWARA RAO Advocate [OPUC] 5. Two CCs to Public Prosecutor (AP) High Court of A.P., Amaravati
 [OUT]. 6. One spare copy
 HIGH COURT

 DR.YLR,J

DATED: 12/09/2025

BAIL ORDER CRLP.No.9088 of 2025 ALLOWED