For the Petitioner : Mr. A.K. Choudhary, Adv. For the State : Ms. Nehala Sharmin, S.P.P.

 Order No.04/Dated- 25.06.2024
 Heard learned counsel for the parties. 2. The petitioner has been made an accused in connection with
 Deoghar (Cyber) P.S Case No. 38 of 2024 registered for the offences
 under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal
 Code and Sections 66 (B) , 66 (C) , 66(D) and 84 (C) of the Information
 Technology Act, pending in the Court of learned Additional Sessions
 Judge-II-cum-Special Judge, Cybercrime, Deoghar. 3. As per FIR, it is alleged that on 22.03.2024, police received
 confidential information about cyber criminals in several villages. A
 raid was conducted, resulting in the arrest of multiple persons,
 including the petitioner. Various mobile phones and SIM cards were
 seized from the suspects, who failed to provide satisfactory
 explanations for their possession. The suspects, upon interrogation,
 confessed their involvement in cybercrimes, which was further
 supported by preliminary investigation of the seized mobiles. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that petitioner
 is innocent and has committed no offence at all rather he has been
 falsely implicated in this case. It is further submitted that similarly
 situated co-accused person has already been extended privilege of
 regular bail by the Co-ordinate Bench of this Court passed in B.A. No.
 4911 of 2024 vide order dated 23.06.2024. The petitioner is languishing
 in Judicial Custody since 23.03.2024 without any rhymes and reasons.
 Petitioner has no criminal antecedent. Petitioner undertakes to
 cooperate in the trial of the case by remaining physically present as and
 when required and shall not indulge in any manner in tampering with
 the prosecution evidences or influencing the witnesses of prosecution.
Hence, the petitioner may be extended the privilege of bail. 5. On the other hand, learned S.P.P appearing for the State has
opposed the prayer for bail of the petitioner. 6. Regard being had to the facts and circumstances of the case,
nature of allegation coupled with the materials available against the
petitioners, I am inclined to release the petitioner on regular bail.
Accordingly, the petitioner named above is directed to be released on
bail on furnishing of bail bond of Rs.20,000/- (Twenty thousand) with
two sureties of the like amount each to the satisfaction of learned
Additional Sessions Judge-II-cum-Special Judge, Cybercrime, Deoghar
in connection with Deoghar (Cyber) P.S Case No. 38 of 2024 subject to
the conditions:- In case of violation of the aforesaid conditions, the bail of the
 petitioner shall be cancelled and shall be taken into custody by
 the learned Trial Court itself. (Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, J.)

Sachin