Dear Sir/Ma'am, This is to your kind note that I Anujeet Mitra Vehicle # WB20AU6965 was returning home from Desun Hospital via Gariahat Main Road Salimpur Crossing. As I stay in Jodhpur-south kolkata I was about to take right towards Jodhpur park Cultural Club, as the signal was Red hence was waiting for the signal to turn green. In front of me there was a Traffic Police and while the signal turned green he secretly took my number plate picture for no reason. He could have taken my picture while I was waiting for the signal to turn green, but why secretly took after my vehicle started to approach right when the signal was green. The signal also has many CCTV cameras installed which might give you a clear reference of mine situation and can be cleared weather I am liable to be FINED for any reason or not. After seeing the Police Man through my mirror clicking my picture I also saw and took CCTV footage of my friends house which was next to the signal facing towards the road just to understand my fault. If by any ways I am proved to break the law then I am ready to pay the fine. Rs.100/- is not a big issue but the issue is with integrity of law and utilising it in an improper manner. Kolkata police are known for its self generated laws each day and harrasments to common people's. To my knowledge every crime is procucated with proof. But now a days we cannot see any photo evidence of traffic cases online like we used to see earlier few years back. Now my question? Is the CCTV installed in every signals in kolkata are in non working conditions. This type of frauds are common in Kolkata and it's happening daily were traffic gaurds are stalking and taking snaps secretly. Why can't they directly catch the acused and fine. Awaiting for your response. Your kind response will be highly solicited. The above stated issue was already emailed to Kolkata traffic police but no response from thier end. Regards A.Mitra +91 [protected] [protected]@gmail.com Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (3)