This petition has been preferred by the petitioner under Article 226 of
 the Constitution of India, seeking the following reliefs:- 2. The grievance of the petitioner is that he is having a bank account

 with respondent No.1, Indusind Bank. He has been playing online game on
 Trova Win Money application where he plays colour prediction game in
 which he wins different amounts and withdraws the amount from his bank
 account. His account has been frozen at the instance of respondent No.2,
 Station House Officer, Gollagudem Road, Shri Satya Sai Nagar, Road No.9
 Khammam, Telangana and respondent No.3, Circle Inspector, Police Station, Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHILPA NAAGDEVE Signing time: 27-01-2025 13:48:25 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:1886

 2 WP-2257-2025
 Telangana as has been informed to him by the Bank. The account of the
 petitioner has been frozen can also be demonstrated by his statement of
 account in which it has been so stated. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that as per the
 information received, there has been some transactions by certain persons
 which have been found to be illegal by respondents No.2 and 3 and alleging
 deposit of amount in the account of petitioner, his account has been frozen. 4. Counsel has also drawn the attention of this Court to an order passed
 in an identical case, in the case of Gautam Bhandari and Others Vs. State
 Bank of India and Others, W.P. No.30822/2024 dated 25.10.2024 wherein
 also this Court had granted relief to the petitioner that the amount which is
 disputed may be kept in a fixed deposit by the bank, with further direction

 that the competent Judicial Magistrate shall proceed in accordance with law
 under Section 102 of Cr.P.C. It is submitted that the petitioner also agrees
 that the amount relating to questionable transaction may be kept in a fixed
 deposit, and the petitioner may be allowed to operate his account. 5. Heard. On due consideration of submissions and on perusal of the
 documents filed on record, this Court finds the prayer reasonable and
 innocuous, as no prejudice would be caused either to the Bank or to
 respondents No.2 and 3, if the disputed amount is kept in fixed deposits, as
 has been ordered by this Court in the case of Gautam Bhandari (Supra) . Thus
 maintaining parity, this Court is inclined to allow the present petition as well. 6. So far as the order passed by this Court in the case of Gautam
 Bhandari (Supra) is concerned, the same reads as under:- 2. The grievance of the petitioners is that their accounts have been freezed on account
 of some fraudulent activity. 3. Counsel for the petitioners has submitted that the petitioners are medical students,
 studying in fourth semester in Aurobindo College, Indore and were also trading in
 Crypto currency, in which the aforesaid transactions were made in their accounts. It
 is submitted that the petitioners may be allowed to operate their accounts, as the
 disputed entries are already on hold. 4. Counsel for the respondent No.1/ SBI has submitted that no case for interference is
 made out, however, it is not denied that on earlier occasions, this Court had passed
 various orders and one such order was passed in the case of Malcolm Murayis and
 Others Vs. State Bank of India and Others, W.P. No.1100/2024 dated 26.04.2024. 5. Heard. On due consideration of submissions and on perusal of the documents filed
 on record, it is found that so far as the order passed in the case of Malcolm Murayis
 (Supra) is concerned, it has been observed as under:- (Emphasis Supplied) Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHILPA NAAGDEVE Signing time: 27-01-2025 13:48:25 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:1886

 4 WP-2257-2025 6. On due consideration of the reliefs sought by the petitioners, as also the aforesaid
 order, this Court is inclined to dispose of this petition with a direction to the
 respondents/Bank to keep the disputed amount as informed to them by various cyber
 crime agencies, in fixed deposits, which shall be allowed to be liquidated only after
 the orders are passed by the competent Judicial Magistrate within three months' time
 as it is expected from the cybercrime police to proceed in accordance with law under Section 102 of Cr.P.C., or any other law on which they are relying upon, failing
 which the amount so kept in FDs may also be allowed to be withdrawn by the
 petitioners under intimation to the cybercrime agencies." 7. Accordingly, the present petition stands allowed with a direction to
 respondent No.1/Bank to keep the disputed amount as informed to them by
 cybercrime agencies (respondents No.2 and 3), in a fixed deposit, which shall
 be allowed to be liquidated only after the order is passed by the competent
 Judicial Magistrate within four months' time as it is expected from the
 Cybercrime Police to proceed in accordance with law under Section 102 of
 Cr.P.C., or any other law on which they are relying upon, failing which the
 amount so kept in fixed deposit may also be allowed to be withdrawn by the
 petitioner under intimation to the Cyber crime agency. 8. With the aforesaid, the petition stands allowed and disposed off. (PRANAY VERMA)
 JUDGE

 Shilpa Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHILPA NAAGDEVE Signing time: 27-01-2025 13:48:25