This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the

 proceedings against the petitioner in C.C.No.1 of 2020 on the file of the

 Special Court No.1 for Trial of Criminal Cases related to MP's and MLA of

 Tamil Nadu, Chennai. 2. The brief facts leading to the filing of the charge sheet, are as

 follows:- 3. The prosecution has examined as many as 30 witnesses and

 recorded their statements and final report has been taken on file in

 C.C.No.1 of 2020. To quash the said proceedings, this petition has been

 filed. 3. The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner mainly

 contended that there is an inordinate delay in filing the complaint and such

 delay is with mala fide intention. The Defacto complainant selectively

 extracts few lines from the speech of the petitioner. Further, the entire

 materials collected by the prosecution would not prove the offence under Sections 3(1)(u) and 3(1)(v) of the Act and the entire prosecution has been

 made due to political animosity with an mala fide intention, since the 3/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ CRL.O.P.No.20070 of 2020 petitioner belongs to different political party. The petitioner has simply

 thought to give credit for the appointment of Judges among the members of

 the Scheduled Caste. His remarks were not intended to disrespect the

 Hon'ble Retired Mr.Justice A.Varadharajan or any other Hon'ble Judges.

 Hence, the speech of the petitioner should not be construed to mean that he

 has insulted or humiliated other Judges of the Schedule Caste or the

 members of the Scheduled Caste. Hence, it is the contention that the

 petitioner being a Member of Parliament and also a leader of Dravidian

 Progressive Federation, he did not commit any such offence. Hence, prayed

 for quashing of the FIR. 4. In respect of his submission, he placed reliance on the judgment

 of the Hon'ble Apex court in Hitesh Varma Vs. The State of Uttarakhand

 and another [Criminal Appeal No.707 of 2020] . 5. The learned Public Prosecutor appearing for the first respondent

 submitted that the entire speech of the petitioner not only disrespects the

 Judges from the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes, but also insulted

 the other members of the Scheduled Caste. His entire allegations when

 read together, the same lead to the conclusion that the accused has

 intended to mean that Scheduled Caste members have no merit to hold

 higher posts. Hence, it is the contention that the prosecution has examined 4/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ CRL.O.P.No.20070 of 2020 30 witnesses and collected several materials to prove the charge. Hence,

 as a matter of right, the charge sheet filed as against the petitioner cannot

 be quashed. 6. The learned counsel appearing for the defacto complainant /

 second respondent would submit that the petitioner, being a political

 leader, had spoken ill not only against the Scheduled Caste but also the

 Upper Caste. His entire speech is in the way of dividing the people and

 creating disharmony in the society. If such speeches are taken lightly at the

 realm of freedom of speech, the same will create hatred among the

 members of the Scheduled Caste and the general public. Hence, it is the

 contention that the entire allegations and the materials collected by the

 prosecution show that this is the case, where the petitioner has to go for

 trial. Hence, prayed for dismissal of this petition. 7. It is well settled law that the power of quashing of a criminal

 proceedings should be exercised sparingly, with circumspection and in

 rarest of rare cases. The court, is not justified in embarking upon an

 enquiry as to the reliability or genuineness of the allegations made in the

 FIR or the complaint on the basis of the evidence collected during

 investigation. 5/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ CRL.O.P.No.20070 of 2020 8. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Haryana and

 others vs. Bhajan Lal and others [1992 Supp (1) SCC 335], has held as

 follows:- 9. Similarly, it is also well settled that while exercising the power

 under Section 482 Cr.P.C., the Court is is not expected to express any views

 on merits related to the realm of appreciation of evidence to decide the

 credibility of the case put forward. 7/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ CRL.O.P.No.20070 of 2020 10. When the allegations put against the accused carefully

 perused, the remarks made by the accused prima facie show that he has

 remarked that the people, except in Tamil Nadu, are idiots. He has also

 stated that till now, no one from the Schedule Caste become Judge of the

 High Court of Madhyapradesh. Only the leader Karunanithi, made

 Mr.Varadharajan, who belongs to Schedule Caste as Judge of High Court of

 Madras. Similarly, 7 or 8 Judges from the Scheduled Caste were also

 appointed at the alms rendered by the Dravidian Progressive Federation.

 The statements prima facie indicate the allegations targeted against

 Scheduled Caste. This Court restrains itself from expressing any views as

 to whether such utterance attracts the offence or not. 11. The allegations prima facie show that such statement leads

 inference as if except the alms rendered by the Dravidian Progressive

 Federation, the members from Scheduled Caste would not have been

 become a Judge of the High Court. It is nothing but an humiliation and

 insult to the oppressed community. The entire statements made by the

 person are not in good taste. Intellectual debates have been forgotten by

 the so called leaders. On the other hand, under the guise of freedom

 guaranteed under the Constitution, the persons claiming to be public

 leaders spitting venum against opponents. It has become routine affairs.

 Such debate is not good for the society or the younger generation. The 8/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ CRL.O.P.No.20070 of 2020 leaders are required to engage with an intellectual debate and not on

 personal grudge. 12. Be that as it may, the prosecution has also examined as many

 as 30 witnesses and collected several documents also. With the available

 materials, whether the offence is made out or not, could be seen only after

 the appreciation of entire evidence and it is the domain of the trial Court to

 test the credibility of the case put forward by the prosecution. It is

 submitted by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner that

 the offence under Sections 3(1)(u) and 3(1)(v) of the Act have not been

 attracted. It is to be noted that the Investigating Officer has collected

 several materials. The fact that whether the offence is attracted or not has

 to be decided at the stage of trial and not at this stage. It is the wisdom of

 the trial Court to apply its mind to frame charges for the relevant sections

 on the basis of the available materials in the form of final report and other

 documents relied by the prosecution, even though some of the offence

 under other has not been included in the charge sheet. Therefore, this

 Court at this stage, is not making any enquiry so as to find out whether the

 materials collected will fit into the ingredients of the sections charged

 against the accused. 13. As far as the judgment relied upon by the learned Senior 9/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ CRL.O.P.No.20070 of 2020 Counsel appearing for the petitioner in the case of Hitesh Verma vs. The

 State of Uttarakhand and another [Criminal Appeal No.707 of 2020], is

 concerned, in paragraph Nos.10 and 18, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

 held as follows: 14. The facts in the present case is totally different from the above

 cases. Herein, remarks have been made in public view and not only against

 the persons holding high posts but also some other retired Judges stating

 that they have become judges only at the alms rendered by the Dravidian

 Progressive Federation, which prima facie insult and humiliate such people. 10/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ CRL.O.P.No.20070 of 2020 Therefore, this Court is of the view that it is not a fit case to exercise the

 power under Section 482 Cr.P.C., to quash the proceedings. Accordingly,

 this Criminal Original Petition is dismissed. The trial Court shall strictly

 follow the provisions under Section 309 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

 and the guidelines given by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vinod Kumar

 vs. State of Punjab [2015 (1) MLJ (crl) 288] and complete the trial on day-

 to-day basis expeditiously without any further delay. Consequently,

 connected miscellaneous petitions are closed.