The appellant has preferred this appeal under Sec.454 of
Cr.P.C., praying to set-aside the order dated 03.11.2018 in
Cr.No.167/2017 passed by the learned 1st ACMM, Bengaluru and
consequently allow the application filed by the respondent No.2
U/ Secs.451 and 457 of Cr.P.C by dismissing the applications filed
under Secs.451 and 457 filed by the appellant. 2. The appellant was the complainant and the respondent
No.2 was the accused before the trial court. For the sake of
convenience, the appellant and the respondent are assigned the
same rank in this appeal as assigned to them by the trial court. 3. The brief facts of the case of the appellant is that, the
appellant is the original complainant in Cr.No.167/2017. The said
case is registered against the accused/respondent No.2 for the
offences punishable U/Secs.120B, 465 , 468 , 471 , 474 , 420 , 419 , 107 r/w Sec.34 of IPC and Secs.66(C) and 66(D) of the I.T.Act on
the complaint lodged by the original complainant on 15.06.2017. It is submitted that, Sri.Vinod Kumar Pachiyappan, working as
Manager with SBI Cards and Payments Services Pvt. Ltd., lodged a
complaint for and on behalf of the company. It is submitted that, on
09.03.2015 respondent No.2 Niran Jaypal @ Velayudham Niran
Jaypal had approached SBI Cards and Payments Services Pvt. Ltd.,
 Crl.Apl.2262/2018 4 by furnishing all the required information through online process. In
turn the same was received by the office and accordingly the
company intimated Niran Jaypal to his mobile for production of
required application form and KYC and other documents to issue Air
India SBI Signature Card and the 2nd respondent informed the
appellant to send the executives who are dealing in the said
process. Accordingly, company instructed to the Empaneled vendors
to collect the required application form and KYC and other
documents from the 2nd respondent. A the time of issuance of such
credit card, the issuing authorities presumed that the documents
produced by the 2nd respondent and others are genuine documents
and accepted such KYC documents. But during recent internal cross
verification it came to the light that, those documents are not
genuine but fake and forged on into. On the basis of some internal
information/red flags and subsequent verification from company end,
it was suspected a syndicate of fraudsters, mostly second
respondent an some other unknown culprits have done an illegal
omission/willful concealment/distortion of some material facts related
to some customers with a criminal intent and subsequently with the
help of some other unknown racketeers, prepared some
manufactured KYC documents purportedly being used a genuine by
them. On the submitted KYC documents, 08 cards are linked to each
other with different nature of cards transactions of the mentioned
card accounts. On due verification and cross verification, it is very
well disclosed that, the said 2nd respondent and some other unknown
 Crl.Apl.2262/2018 5 racketeers have misused some of those credit cards by playing
fraud, criminal conspiracy, forgery, cheating etc., In that way, they
have cheated SBI Cards and Payments Services Pvt. Ltd., to the
tune of Rs.39,89,310.70/- and gain such amount by way of wrongful
gain and causing loss to SBI Cards and Payments Services Pvt.
Ltd., Thereby, the company requested the police to register a
criminal case against the respondent No.2 and others and to take
legal action against them. Thereby, the 1st respondent police
registered case in Cr.No.167/2017. Subsequently, during the
investigation, the police have seized Hyundai Gran i10 Sports car
bearing Reg.No.KA-01-MT070, two-wheeler bearing Reg.No.KA05-
JZ-8282, gold jewelery, silver articles, foot massager, water heater,
pen drives, memory cards, laptops, personal computers, printers,
monitors, key boards, cameras, digital cameras, statues, knives,
cash counting machines, television set of various models such LCD,
LED, Ultra HD, Gents and Ladies wrist watches and mobiles phones
by drawing seizure mahazars and subjected the same to P.F.Nos.3,
4 & 7/2017. Apart from the said seizure, the police have also seized
the bank accounts of the accused persons and cash which was in
their possession. The 2nd respondent has used the 8 credit card for
purchasing the above mentioned items and have cheated the SBI
Cards and Payments Services Pvt. Ltd., The accused have also
withdrawn cash for purchase of the materials. Thereby, the
appellant filed an application on 08.09.2017 U/ Secs.451 and 457 of
Cr.P.C for release of the items seized by the police, since they are
 Crl.Apl.2262/2018 6 purchased by using the credit cards of the appellant. During the
pendency of the application, the respondent No.3 and 4 also filed
application for release of the items seized. The trial court vide order
dated 27.01.2018, partly allowed the application filed by respondent
No.4 and directed to release original Aadhar card, pan card,
horoscope and application filed for release of items seized were
rejected. It is submitted that, respondent Nos.2 and 3 are husband and
wife and respondent No.4 is mother of respondent No.3.
Respondent Nos.2 to 4 filed another application on 24.03.2018 for
release of item seized by the respondent No.1 police. The trial court
clubbing all the application, after lapse of one year from the date of
filing the application by the appellant dismissed the application filed
by the appellant and allowed the applications filed by respondents
No.2, 3 and 4 and ordered to release items in favour of respondents
No.2, 3 and 4. 4. The appellant being aggrieved by the said order has
come up with this appeal. The main grounds urged are as under; 1) It is contended that the trial court has totally misdirected
itself while passing the order. The trial court vide order dated
27.01.2018 had rejected the application filed by the respondents
No.3 and 4 for release of the items. Now the trial court vide its order
 Crl.Apl.2262/2018 7 has allowed the application filed by the respondents No.3 and 4 for
release of the items though there is no change circumstances. 2) The trial court has totally gone into the report submitted by
the police to release the items. The police would not be the
competent authority to inform the court, in whose favour the items
will have to be released. The trial court will have to take the
independent decision considering the circumstances of the case on
hand and not merely relying on the report submitted by the I.O. 3) The trial court has totally lost sight of source of income of
respondents No.2 to 4. It is the specific case of the appellant that,
the said articles are purchased out of the credit cards issued by the
appellant and during the occurrence of the crime. When the source
of income is proved by the appellant, the trial court has erred in
taking the ownership receipt of the respondents No.2 to 4 by
ordering the release of items in their favour. 4) The trial court erred in clubbing the application filed by
respondents No.2 to 4, when there is no reasons mentioned in their
application with regard to change in circumstances. 5) The appellant has sought permission to take the items to
their custody and sell electronic goods and to deposit the money
before the trial court, since the value of the electronic goods would
depreciate, and the amount of the company would be put to stakes,
which has been misused by accused No.2. Crl.Apl.2262/2018 8 6) The trial court ought to have taken consideration with regard
to the organized crime committed by the respondent No.2 by
submitting the forged, false and fabricated documents. It is
submitted that, the trial court by releasing the items purchased out of
the amount involved in the crime, would be indirectly encouraged the
accused to involve in such activities in future. 7) The trial court failed to consider the source of income of the
respondents No.2 to 4. The application filed by the respondent Nos.2
to 4 does not show the source of income and the income to
purchase the items now released. In all events, the trial court has
erred in dismissing the application filed by the appellant and
consequently allowing the application filed by the respondents No.2
to 4. 8) The trial court in a hurriedly manner has passed the
impugned order, which is wholly perverse and not maintainable in
the eye of law and hence the order is liable to be set-aside. Hence, on these and among other grounds, the order passed
by the court below is liable to be set-aside in the interest of justice
and equity. 5. This appeal was presented before the Honb'le Prl. City
Civil & Sessions Judge, Bengaluru, it was registered as Criminal
Appeal No.2262/2018 and made over to this Court for disposal
according to law. After the receipt of the records this court has
 Crl.Apl.2262/2018 9 issued notice to the respondents. The learned P.P. takes notice on
behalf of respondent No.1. The notice sent to respondents No.2 to 4
returned as insufficient address. Thereafter the LCR was secured. 6. Heard arguments. Perused the available records. 7. The points that arise for my determination are as under: 8. On appreciation of the reasons assigned by the trial
court in its order, my findings to the above said points are as follows: together, as they could be disposed off by common reasoning and
also to avoid repetition of facts. Crl.Apl.2262/2018 10 On perusal of the appeal memo and documents and other
records, it is noticed that, the present appellant had filed application
before the trial court U/ Secs.451 and 457 of Cr.P.C. At the same
time, the respondents No.2, 3 and 4 have also filed same application
before the trial court. The trial court heard both sides and rejected
the application filed by the appellant and allowed the application filed
by the respondent Nos.2, 3 and 4. Thereby, the appellant has
preferred the present appeal. 10. On going through the trial court order sheet it is noticed
that, the appellant had filed a case against Niran Jaypal and another
for the offences punishable U/ Secs.120(B) , 465 , 468 , 471 , 474 , 420 , 419 , 107 r/w 34 of I.P.C and Secs.66(C) and 66(D) of the I.T.Act.
Based on the said complaint the respondent No.1 registered case
against respondent No.2 and another. The investigation is going on.
In the meantime, the respondent Nos.2, 3 and 4 filed application for
release of the properties seized by the first respondent by
conducting mahazar. In the meantime, the present appellant being
the bank also claiming the properties seized by the 1st respondent in
P.F.Nos.3, 4, 7/2017. Both the parties are made rival claim regarding
the properties seized by the first respondent. The trial court observed
the contentions raised by both the parties and come to the
conclusion that, "the application filed by the petitioner Nos.1 and 2
namely Smt.Jyostna Rani Sahoo and Smt.Sathyabhama U/ Secs.451 and 457 of Cr.P.C are hereby allowed. The application filed by
 Crl.Apl.2262/2018 11 petitioner No.3 Niran Jaypal U/ Secs.451 and 457 of Cr.P.C is partly
allowed. The application filed by the present appellant U/ Secs.451 and 457 of Cr.P.C is rejected." The trial court observed that, though
the first respondent being the I.O in the said case has seized the
properties in P.F.Nos.3, 4 and 7/2017. On perusal of the records, the
2nd respondent and others are able to place some documentary
evidence to show that the seized articles are belong to them. On the
other hand, the present appellant claiming to release the said
properties. The trial court observed that, the 2 nd respondent and
others are able to place documents to show that, they have
purchased the said properties by placing receipt. At the same time,
the appellant bank is not able to place any documentary evidence to
show that the respondent No.2 has purchased the said property by
using their credit card. Thereby, trial court come to the conclusion
that, once the present 1st respondent being the I.O seized the
articles from the possession of the 2 nd respondent and others who
are the owners of the said properties. Thereby, the trial court has
allowed the application filed by 2 nd respondent and directed the first
respondent to release the property by taking indemnity bond. 11. It is the first and foremost contention of the appellant that,
the 2nd respondent created fake documents and obtained the credit
card. The 2nd respondent made criminal conspiracy and forged the
documents and cheated the complainant bank to the tune of
Rs.38,89,310.70. He has caused loss to the bank. If it so, the bank is
 Crl.Apl.2262/2018 12 having every right to take legal action against respondent No.2 and
another. Accordingly, the complainant bank has filed case against
the respondent No.2 and another for the above said offences. 12. It is pertinent to note that, at the time of releasing the
properties in favour of the appellant or respondents, the Court has to
ascertain the said properties seized by the I.O from the possession
of the persons who being the owner of the said properties. Here in
this case, the 2nd respondent Niran Jayapal, 3rd respondent
Smt.Jyostna Rani Sahoo, the wife of 2nd respondent and respondent
No.3 Smt.Sathyabhama are also seeking to release the gold articles
seized by the police at the time of investigation. Thereby, the trial
court properly noticed about the receipts and other documents and
come to the conclusion that the 2nd respondent and respondent
Nos.3 and 4 are able to place documentary evidence that the seized
properties are belonged to them. Thereby, the trial court has rightly
come to the conclusion and allowed the application filed by
respondents No.2, 3 and 4 and directed the I.O to release the
properties in their favour. 13. The case of the appellant is that, the 2nd appellant created
fake documents and obtained credit card from the complainant bank
and purchased the above articles by using the credit card. Thereby,
these properties belong to them. It is not sustainable under law.
Once the property is seized by the police from the possession of the
 Crl.Apl.2262/2018 13 2nd respondent and others, they are having right to file application to
release of the properties. Here in this case, on going through the
entire trial court records as well as the reason assigned by the trial
court, one thing is clear that the complainant being the applicant
before the trial court file the application for release of the properties.
It has not placed any documents evidence to show that the said
properties are belong to the bank. Thereby, the trial court has rightly
negatived the contention of the appellant and come to the right
conclusion of the case on hand. Thereby, in view of the discussions,
I am of the opinion that there are no materials to interfere in the
order of the trial court. As such, I hold Point Nos.1 & 2 in the
NEGATIVE. 14. POINT NO.3: In view of my findings on Point Nos.1 &
2, I proceed to pass the following: Send back the LCR to the trial court
with a copy of this judgment forthwith. LXVIII A.C.C & S.J,
 Bengaluru City. Crl.Apl.2262/2018
16