S.M.SUBRAMANIAM, J. FACTS IN BRIEF: 2. The petitioner was placed under suspension on 14.03.2013

 in contemplation of enquiry into grave charges vide High Court's

 proceedings dated 13.03.2013. The petitioner was not permitted to retire Page 3 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 from service on the date of his superannuation on 30.06.2013 and kept

 under suspension. 3. A letter dated 05.08.2011 had been received from one

 Mr.S.Doraisamy, Advocate addressed to the Registrar (Vigilance) by

 enclosing a compact disk, requesting for certain information under the Right

 to Information Act , with regard to the identification of voices in the compact

 disk, which contained the alleged telephonic conversation among three

 persons, viz., Mr.Sankaracharya Jayendra Saraswathi of Kanchi Mutt,

 Mr.T.Ramasamy, the then Sessions Judge, Puducherry and Ms.B.Gowri

 Kamatchi related to Mr.Sankaracharya Jayendra Saraswathi. Subsequently

 on 18.08.2011, a complaint has been received from one Mr.P.Sundarrajan,

 Advocate, addressed to the Registrar Vigilance, requesting to register a case

 and to probe the tapes circulated, with regard to the telephonic conversation

 purported to be made between viz., Mr.Sankaracharya Jayendra Saraswathi,

 who was arrayed as the prime accused in Sankar Raman's murder case in SC

 No.94 of 2005 on the file of the Sessions Court, Puducherry,

 Mr.T.Ramasamy, the then Sessions Judge, Puducherry, devotee and another

 person, discussing monetary payments and promised payments. Page 4 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 4. The complaint was placed before the Hon'ble Administrative

 Committee. On 24.08.2011, Mr.N.Authinathan, formerly Administrator

 General and Official Trustee, Chennai, was nominated as Enquiry Officer to

 conduct preliminary enquiry into the complaint. Mr.N.Authinathan

 submitted his report on 19.09.2011 and it was placed before the Hon'ble

 Administrative Committee. 5. The enquiry report contained the Expert's opinion of the

 Deputy Director, Forensic Sciences Department dated 15.09.2011. The

 Expert has opined that contextual discontinuity and abrupt ending of the

 conversation found in the audio files forwarded for examination indicate the

 possibility of editing of the source audio files. The Expert has further opined

 that the content of the audio can be authenticated only after examining the

 actual recording devices (carrying the source audio files), which were used

 to record the original conversation. The Expert has further stated that the

 complainant had not cooperated with the enquiry and concluded that the Page 5 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 materials gathered during the enquiry do not contain even the materials

 relating the facts in issue which merit any further action. 6 In the meantime, Mr.P.Sundarrajan, Advocate filed WP

 No.19894 of 2011 before the High Court of Madras on 22.08.2011 praying

 for Writ of Mandamus, directing the Registrar (Vigilance), High Court of

 Madras to commence statutory investigation by registering the FIR on his

 complaint dated 18.08.2011 and to submit a preliminary report about the

 alleged bribe tapes and financial transactions discussed in the tapes and if

 the report confirms payment of bribes paid to the Trial Court Judge by the

 accused, then to order for re-trial of SC No.94 of 2005 on the file of the

 Sessions Court, Puducherry by any other Judge in Puducherry. 7. The Hon'ble Administrative Committee in the meeting held

 on 14.10.2011, directed the Registry to place the enquiry report dated

 19.09.2011 submitted by Mr.N.Authinathan, before the Division Bench,

 which was hearing the Writ Petition No.19894 of 2011 filed by Mr.P.

 Sundarrajan. Page 6 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 8. The Hon'ble Division Bench in WP No.19894 of 2011 vide

 order dated 27.02.2012, observed that to ascertain the truth and genuineness

 of the alleged conversation contained in the compact disk produced by

 Mr.S.Doraisamy, Advocate and the compact disk said to have been in

 possession of Mr.P.Sundarrajan, the petitioner in WP No.19894 of 2011,

 which was not produced before the Preliminary Enquiry Officer, are to be

 subjected to further enquiry by a skilled and specialised person in the field of

 Cyber Crime and directed the Director General of Police, Tamil Nadu, to

 nominate Dr.M.Sudhakar, Former Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cyber

 Crime Cell or any other Competent Police Official, who is having experience

 in dealing with Cyber Crime, not below the rank of Assistant Commissioner

 and disposed of the said writ petition with a direction to the nominated

 Enquiry Officer to hold a detailed enquiry and submit report to the

 Registrar-General, High Court of Madras for further action by the High

 Court. 9. Pursuant to the directions of the Division Bench,

 Dr.M.Sudhakar, former Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cyber Crime Cell

 was appointed as Enquiry Officer, to conduct a detailed enquiry to ascertain Page 7 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 the truth. Dr.M.Sudhakar seized all the materials and conducted a detailed

 enquiry and submitted his report, wherein, inter alia, the Enquiry Officer had

 given a specific finding that the utterances in the alleged conversation were

 made by Thiru Jayendra Saraswathi Sankaracharya of Kanchi Mutt,

 Ms.B.Gowri Kamatchi, CEO of Sree Uthradom Thirunal Academy of

 Medical Sciences, Thiruvanandapuram and Mr.N.Ramesh Kumaar, Section

 Officer, High Court of Madras and Mr.A.Rajasekaran, the then V Additional

 District Judge of Erode at Bhavani. The said report established the fact that

 the alleged conversation did not contain the voice of Thiru T.Ramasamy, the

 then Trial Judge of the Sessions Court, Puducherry. Thus, the Hon'ble

 Administrative Committee resolved to drop the further proceedings against

 Mr.T.Ramasamy, the then Sessions Judge, Puducherry and resolved that

 prima facie case is made out for further enquiry against the writ petitioner

 viz., Mr.A.Rajasekaran, the then IV Additional District Judge, Erode at

 Bhavani and Mr.N.Ramesh Kumaar, then working as Section Officer in the

 Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, Madurai and directed the Registry to

 conduct further enquiry against both of them and to submit a report. 10. In compliance of the directions issued by the Hon'ble Page 8 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 Administrative Committee, enquiry was conducted by the then Registrar

 (Vigilance) and a report was submitted on 10.03.2016 stating that the

 petitioner and Mr.N.Ramesh Kumaar Section Officer had involved in the

 conference call conversation with Mr.Sankaracharya Jayendra Saraswathi,

 the prime accused in SC No.94 of 2005 on the file of the Sessions Court,

 Puducherry and Ms.B.Gowri Kamatchi, CEO of Sree Uthradom Thirunal

 Academy of Medical Sciences, Thiruvananthapuram. Consequently, the

 Hon'ble Administrative Committee directed the Registry to call for

 explanation from the petitioner and Mr.N.Ramesh Kumaar, Section Officer.

 The petitioner submitted his interim reply dated 11.05.2016 and requested

 to furnish details of SIM Cards and call details. As directed by the Hon'ble

 Administrative Committee, the petitioner was directed to submit his

 explanation by providing the extract of the compact disk vide High Court's

 Official Memorandum dated 29.07.2016. The petitioner submitted his

 explanations on 11.08.2016. 11. Meanwhile, the writ petitioner filed WP No.29198 of 2015

 before the High Court of Madras on 10.09.2015 for issuance of Writ of

 Certiorarified Mandamus to call for the entire records and to quash the same Page 9 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 and consequently direct the Registry to permit the petitioner to retire

 peacefully from service with all attendant benefits. The writ petition was

 dismissed as withdrawn on 09.08.2016. 12. The Hon'ble Administrative Committee in its meeting held

 on 30.08.2016, considered the materials available on record and the

 explanations submitted by the writ petitioner as well as Mr.N.Ramesh

 Kumaar, Section Officer and rejected the same as not being satisfactory.

 Accordingly, it was ordered to frame charges. 13. Pertinently, all the above procedures were followed to

 ascertain the prima facie case, if any, made available for initiation of

 departmental disciplinary proceedings. Only after considering all the

 materials available on record, the Hon'ble Administrative Committee took

 decision to frame charges against the writ petitioner and Mr.N.Ramesh

 Kumaar, Section Officer. Accordingly, five charges were framed against the

 petitioner and issued in proceedings dated 07.09.2017. The petitioner

 submitted his written statement of defence on 10.11.2017. Initially, Hon'ble

 Thiru Justice T.Ravindran, the then Sitting Judge was appointed as Page 10 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 Enquiring Judge and Mr.V.Thanga Mariyappan, the then Registrar (District

 Judiciary) was appointed as Presenting Officer to conduct the departmental

 enquiry, Mr. Justice T.Ravindran recused from conducting the enquiry. In

 the meantime WP No.21521 of 2017 filed by the petitioner, this Court vide

 order dated 18.03.2019, directed the Registry to appoint the Enquiring

 Judge, within a period of four weeks from the date of receipt of a copy of the

 order and further direction was issued to complete the enquiry, within a

 period of three months. Accordingly, on 28.06.2019, the Hon'ble

 Administrative Committee resolved to nominate Hon'ble Mr. Justice

 N.Sathishkumar of Madras High Court as the Enquiring Judge. The

 departmental enquiry commenced on 27.08.2019. The enquiry was delayed

 due to the outbreak of Corona pandemic, closure of Courts and non-

 appearance of certain witnesses, delinquents etc. 14. The Hon'ble Enquiring Judge had rendered his findings on

 05.01.2022, holding that out of five charges, charge Nos.1 and 4 are proved

 against the writ petitioner. Charge No.1 relates to the petitioner is close

 proximity with Thiru N.Ramesh Kumaar, Section Officer, High Court,

 Madras, knowing fully well that he has close contacts with Advocate Page 11 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 Mr.C.Antony Selvaraj, Mr.N.Arun Raj, close acquaintance with Mr.Jayendra

 Saraswathi, who was the prime accused in Crime bearing SC No.94 of 2005.

 Charge No.4 relates to the petitioner having attended the Conference Call

 which was organised by Thiru N.Ramesh Kumaar, while he was working as

 Section Officer in Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, on the directions

 of Advocate Thiru Antony Selvaraj and the audio files bring out the

 assurance given by Thiru Jayendra Saraswathi to settle the balance amount

 within a period of one week to 10 days. The copy of the enquiry report was

 furnished to the petitioner, seeking further objections on the findings on the

 proved charges. The petitioner submitted his further representation on

 16.02.2022. In the meeting held on 21.06.2022, the Hon'ble Administrative

 Committee resolved to impose the punishment on the petitioner. The Hon'ble

 Full Court in the meeting held on 07.07.2022 approved the decision of the

 Hon'ble Administrative Committee. Accordingly, the Registry addressed the

 Government for orders of the Appointing authority. The Government

 initially passed G.O.Ms.No.688, Public Department, dated 20.10.2022

 imposing the punishment of removal from service, since certain errors crept

 in the said order passed by the Government, the High Court addressed the

 Government to correct the errors and issue a fresh Government Order and Page 12 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 consequently, the Government cancelled G.O.MsNo.688, dated 20.10.2022

 and issued revised Government Order in G.O.Ms.No.742, Public (Special A)

 Department, dated 07.11.2022, imposing the punishment of removal from

 service. The said order came to be challenged in the present writ

 proceedings. ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER: Proceeding thereafter without any material evidences is perverse and

 therefore, the entire process of further enquiry conducted is vitiated and

 consequently, the punishment of removal from service is to be set aside. 18. Mr.V.Prakash, learned Senior Counsel, is of an opinion that

 deposition of witnesses and certain conversations, which could have

 happened casually cannot be the basis for imposing the major penalty of

 removal from service. The proximity with the Advocates or the staff

 members of the High Court, cannot be a ground to frame charges against the

 Judicial Officers. It would be a dangerous proposition that such conversation

 between the Judges and the Advocates or the staff members, are considered

 as source for initiation of departmental disciplinary proceedings, then the

 Judicial Officers may not be in a position to perform their duties peacefully. 19. Contextually, Mr.V.Prakash, learned Senior Counsel, drew

 the attention of this Court with reference to the observations made by the

 Division Bench of this Court, vide its order dated 27.02.2012 in WP Page 15 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 No.19894 of 2011, filed by Mr.P.Sundarrajan, Advocate. Even before

 conclusion of the preliminary enquiry by Mr.N.Authinathan, Enquiry

 Officer, the writ petition was filed before the High Court. The Division

 Bench further observed about the reference made by the Director of Forensic

 Sciences Department, Mylapore, Chennai, wherein the Experts opined that

 contextual discontinuity and abrupt ending of the conversation found in the

 audio files forwarded for examination indicate the possibility of editing of

 the source audio files. When such a categorical finding is given by the

 preliminary Enquiry Officer Mr.N.Authinathan, which was considered by

 the Division Bench of this Court, further actions ought to have been dropped

 by the Competent Authorities, but a charge memorandum was issued against

 the writ petitioner under Rule 17(b) of the Tamil Nadu Civil Services

 (Discipline and Appeal) Rules. 20. The learned Senior Counsel solicit the attention of this

 Court with reference to certain contradictions in the statements of the

 witnesses and the cross-examinations. Pertinently, Forensic Sciences

 Department's Report indicates that the authenticity of recording of the

 alleged conversation with certainty is possible only after examining the Page 16 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 original recording device, which were used during the alleged conversation.

 Admittedly, the original recording device was not examined. In the absence

 of examining of the original recording device, the statements made by the

 witnesses cannot be considered for the purpose of imposing the major

 penalty of removal from service on the petitioner. Despite the fact that the

 original audio files were not even examined and based on unauthenticated

 audio files, a decision taken by the Enquiry Officer, which was erroneously

 accepted by the Disciplinary Authority. Thus the writ petition is to be

 allowed. 21. In support of the contention, Mr.V.Prakash, learned Senior

 Counsel, relied on the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Delhi

 Cloth and General Mills Company vs. Ludh Budh Singh [(1972) 1 SCC

 595], wherein in paragraph-38, the following observations are made:- 22. Mr.V.Ayyadurai, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on

 behalf of the second respondent, would strenuously oppose the contentions

 of the petitioner by stating that the procedures as contemplated under the

 Discipline and Appeal Rules were scrupulously followed in the case on

 hand. Sufficient opportunities were provided to the delinquent Officials even

 while conducting the preliminary enquiry and during the domestic enquiry,

 conducted after issuance of charge memorandum under Rule 17(b) of the

 Tamil Nadu Civil Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules. Admittedly, the

 charge Nos.1 and 4 are proved before the Enquiry Officer. Proved charges

 are grave in nature and the writ petitioner acted unbecoming of a Judicial

 Officer. The proved charges are touching upon his integrity and therefore, no

 exception can be drawn. Thus the penalty of removal from service is just and

 deserves no interference from the hands of this Court. 23. Though the original audio records were not available, the

 Enquiry Officer appointed by the Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court vide

 its order dated 27.02.2012 in WP No.19894 of 2011 viz., Dr.M.Sudhakar, Page 19 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 former Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cyber Crime Cell, conducted a

 detailed enquiry. Dr.M.Sudhakar, former Assistant Commissioner of Police,

 Cyber Crime Cell, was appointed by the High Court in judicial proceedings,

 who in turn conducted a detailed enquiry by examining the witnesses and

 scrutinising the documents in a scientific manner. Dr.M.Sudhakar, in his

 report, had given a specific findings that the utterances in the alleged

 conversations were made by Thiru Jayendra Saraswathi Sankaracharya of

 Kanchi Mutt and Ms.B.Gowri Kamatchi, CEO, Sree Uthradom Thirunal

 Academy of Medical Sciences, Thiruvanandapuram and Mr.N.Ramesh

 Kumaar, Section Officer, High Court of Madras and Mr.A.Rajasekaran, the

 then IV Additional District Judge, Erode at Bhavani. 24. Since the voice of Thiru T.Ramasamy, the then Trial Judge,

 Sessions Court, Puducherry was not found, all further actions against him

 were dropped by the Hon'ble Administrative Committee. The Report of

 Dr.M.Sudhakar was considered by the Hon'ble Administrative Committee

 and found a prima facie case is made out for further enquiry against the writ

 petitioner and Mr.N.Ramesh Kumaar, Section Officer of Madras High

 Court. Page 20 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 25. Mr.V.Ayyadurai, Learned Senior Counsel, reiterated that

 the preliminary enquiry was conducted at several stages to ascertain the

 truth behind the genuinity of the audio files and the conversation between

 the petitioner Mr.N.Ramesh Kumaar and others. The Conference Call details

 and its genuinity are also ascertained by conducting the preliminary enquiry.

 During the conduct of preliminary enquiry, the departmental disciplinary

 proceedings were not initiated. Thus, the arguments on behalf of the

 petitioner that two enquiries are conducted in departmental disciplinary

 proceedings, is incorrect. The departmental disciplinary proceedings enquiry

 commences only after issuance of charges under Rule 17(b) of the Tamil

 Nadu Civil Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules. The preliminary

 enquiries conducted prior to framing of charges cannot be construed as

 departmental disciplinary proceedings and thus, it is not a case of two

 different enquries on the same set of charges. Even for framing of charges,

 efforts were taken by the High Court to ascertain the truth behind the

 complaint. Since merely based on certain complaint, charges cannot be

 framed against the Judicial Officer. The High Court took utmost care to cull

 out the truth before framing of charges under the Discipline and Appeal Page 21 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 Rules. 26. In this context, Mr.V.Ayyadurai, learned Senior Counsel,

 would rely on the judgment in the case of Union of India and Others vs.

 Anil Kumar Sarkar [(2013) 4 SCC 161], wherein in paragraphs 19 to 21,

 the Supreme Court held as under:- 27. Ms.M.Jayanthy, learned Additional Government Pleader,

 appearing on behalf of the first respondent, would also adopt the arguments

 made by Mr.V.Ayyadurai, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of

 the second respondent. The learned Additional Government Pleader would

 contend that the Government considered the seriousness of the charges

 proved against the writ petitioner and further considered the decision taken

 by the Hon'ble Administrative Committee and the Hon'ble Full Court and

 accordingly decided to implement the resolutions passed by the Full Court to

 remove the petitioner from service. Since the decisions are supported with

 the materials available on record, the Government issued the order impugned

 and there is no infirmity. Consequently, the present writ petition is to be

 rejected. Page 23 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 DISCUSSIONS: 28. The preliminary arguments as advanced on behalf of the

 petitioner that two enquiries are conducted in departmental disciplinary

 proceedings, is incorrect. The preliminary enquiry conducted by the

 Competent Authority to ascertain the truth behind the allegations in the

 complaint, cannot be equated with the domestic enquiry conducted after

 framing of the charges under Rule 17(b) of the Tamil Nadu Civil Services

 (Discipline and Appeal) Rules. Thus no two enquiries are conducted in

 departmental disciplinary proceedings. As rightly pointed out by the second

 respondent, the departmental disciplinary proceedings commences only

 when charges are framed under the Discipline and Appeal Rules. 29. In the present case, Mr.N.Authinathan was appointed as

 Preliminary Enquiry Officer to verify the truth behind the allegations set out

 in the complaint filed by Mr.P.Sundarrajan, Advocate and the disk produced

 by Mr.S.Doraisamy, Advocate. Such preliminary enquiry is conducted to

 avoid initiation of unnecessary departmental disciplinary proceedings Page 24 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 against the Judicial Officers and the staff members. Even during the

 preliminary enquiry, opportunities were afforded to all the persons to place

 the facts and the materials. 30. That apart, Dr.M.Sudhakar, the then Assistant

 Commissioner of Police, Cyber Crime Cell, was appointed as Enquiry

 Officer by the Division Bench order of this Court in WP No.19894 of 2011.

 Dr.M.Sudhakar was appointed as Enquiry Officer to ascertain the genuinity

 of the conversations contained in the compact disk produced by

 Mr.S.Doraisamy, Advocate and the allegations set out by Mr.P.Sundarrajan,

 Advocate and the petitioner in WP No.19894 of 2011. The said enquiry was

 a fact finding enquiry. Admittedly, no charges were framed under the

 Discipline and Appeal Rules against the writ petitioner, at the time of

 appointment of Mr.N.Authinathan or Dr.M.Sudhakar as Preliminary

 Enquiry Officers. 31. The report submitted by Mr.N.Authinathan was found not

 sufficient enough to frame charges against the Judicial Officer. The

 complainant Mr.P.Sundarrajan, Advocate filed WP No.19894 of 2011. The Page 25 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 Division Bench passed an order appointing Dr.M.Sudhakar, former

 Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cyber Crime Cell, for conducting enquiry

 and submit report to the Registrar-General, High Court of Madras.

 Dr.M.Sudhakar conducted a detailed enquiry by considering the Forensic

 Sciences Department's report and other materials available on record. Based

 on the said report of Dr.M.Sudhakar, the Hon'ble Administrative Committee

 of the High Court, resolved that a prima facie case is made out for further

 enquiry against the writ petitioner, the then IV Additional District Judge,

 Erode at Bhavani and Mr.M.Ramesh Kumaar, Section Officer. Only after

 taking a decision by the Hon'ble Administrative Committee, to commence

 the departmental disciplinary proceedings, the charges were framed against

 the petitioner in proceedings dated 07.09.2017. Thus the contention of the

 petitioner that two enquiries were conducted is unacceptable. The fact

 finding enquiries or the preliminary enquiries, conducted to ascertain the

 truth, cannot be construed as an enquiry as contemplated under the

 Discipline and Appeal Rules. The departmental disciplinary enquiry

 commences only on the point from framing of the charges. Page 26 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 32. The contention of the petitioner that the original recording

 devices were not examined and therefore, the charge itself is vitiated, has to

 be considered in the context of the departmental disciplinary proceedings. 33. Dr.M.Sudhakar, the then Assistant Commissioner of Police,

 Cyber Crime Cell, conducted a detailed enquiry and submitted an elaborate

 report to the High Court. The Forensic Sciences Department's report reveals

 that an analysis was made with the control speech samples with the

 utterances. It is relevant to extract the following findings in the Forensic

 Sciences Department's report:- Jayendrar Saraswathi, Tmt. Gowri Kamakshi, Tr. A.
 Rajasekarn and Tr. N. Ramesh. The content of the alleged
 conversation showed that it was recorded during telephonic
 conference call. The study of content, back ground noise,
 wave form and voice spectrum of the alleged conversation did
 not reveal any conspicuous anomalies or discontinuity in the
 said conversation. However, establishing the authenticity of
 recording of the conversation, with certainty, is possible only
 after examining the original recording device which was used
 during the alleged conversation. 4.3. The disputed utterances indicated as 'A', 'B', 'C'
 and 'D' in the verbatim transcription of the audio files of
 items 1, 2, 3 and 11 (Annexure I, II, III and V) are the
 utterances made by Tr. N. Ramesh, Tr. A. Rajasekaran, Tr.
 Jayendrar Saraswathi and Tmt. Gown Kamakshi,
 respectively.” 34. Regarding the deposition of witnesses and analysis of the

 documents produced before the Enquiring Judge, it is relevant to consider

 the findings of the Enquiring Judge in his Final Enquiry Report filed in

 Roc.No.247/2015/VC. A detailed enquiry was conducted by the Enquiring

 Judge by affording sufficient opportunities to all the delinquent officials Page 30 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 statement of witnesses were recorded. The Forensic Sciences Department's

 report was considered. The findings of the Enquiry Officer, in his Final

 Report, reveals that charge Nos.1 and 4 are held proved against the writ

 petitioner. PW-9 Dr.M.Sudhakar, in his evidence, clearly spoken about the

 statement recorded from PW-7 and PW-8. They have not denied the use of

 mobile phone in the cross-examination. Therefore, the conduct of the

 delinquents with the witnesses PW-7 and PW-8 (Mr.P.Arun Raj and

 Mr.M.Antony Selvaraj) were established. PW-6 (Ms.B.Gowri Kamatchi), in

 her evidence, has clearly identified the voices of herself and Mr.Jayendra

 Saraswathi Sankaracharya, who was the main accused in the murder charge.

 Therefore, the Enquiring Judge found that the facts established clearly show

 that there was no reason whatsoever to have a conference call to discuss

 about the money transactions. All the documents and voice samples

 established scientifically show that the complexity of the delinquents in the

 alleged demand of money for settling the criminal case pending against

 Mr.Jayendra Saraswathi Sankaracharya in SC No.94 of 2005. 35. Only when the financial deal has not fructified, there arose

 some dispute between the parties, the conversation recorded during the deal Page 31 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 has been circulated to the Press by one of the Advocates. Therefore, when

 the probabilities clearly show the complexity of the delinquents with the

 crime, that itself is sufficient to prove the charges in the departmental

 disciplinary proceedings. Thus, the strict rule of evidence cannot be expected

 in the departmental disciplinary proceedings. 36. The findings of the Enquiry Officer are as under:- .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. It is also submitted by the Department that the
 Delinquent No.2 Section Officer had frequent
 contact with Delinquent No.1 Judicial Officer.
 There were 189 calls made by the D2 Section
 Officer to the Judicial Officer, from his two
 different mobile numbers in the year 2011
 alone. Similarly, the Delinquent Judicial
 Officer also made 164 calls. This has been
 admitted by the Delinquent in his written
 statement and there were several calls made
 between them. These facts coupled with the
 voice samples clearly show that they have in
 connivance with P.W.7 and P.W.8 advocates
 finalised the illegal deal for claiming, amount Page 32 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 more than a Crore to some how or other to get
 the A1 released from the Sessions case. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Voice samples have been identified and
 admitted by them which have been compared
 by the experts. The report of the P.W.10 and
 his evidence clearly show that the voice found
 in the audio tape belongs to them along with
 P.W.6 and Jeyandra Saraswathi. There was no
 reason as to why Delinquent No.1 Judicial
 Officer, who was working in Erode to be
 implicated unnecessarily for the case pending
 in Pondicherry. That itself clearly indicate that
 the delinquents have hand in glove and made
 an attempt to extract money from the main
 accused in a sensational murder case which
 was pending against him. Therefore, submitted
 that prosecution established the charges
 against the delinquent officer and staff. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. The evidence of P.W.9, the Investigating
 Officer, Specially appointed by this Court, who
 is Cyber Crime Expert, clearly show that there
 were frequent phone calls from P.W.7 and Page 33 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 P.W.8 and Delinquent No.2 did not handover
 mobile phone and destroyed it. Further, his
 evidence also indicate that during his enquiry
 by way of statements recorded from P.W.7 and
 8 and one Venkatesan, it came to light that
 there were financial dealing to escape from the
 criminal case pending. As the dispute arose
 between parties in financial transaction, the
 conversation recorded by one of the
 unscrupulous element lead to the release of the
 audio files outside. The Investigation of the
 P.W.9 clearly shows that the entire scheme is
 orchestred with the help of P.W.7 and P.W.8
 with the active help of Delinquent No.2 Section
 Officer and Delinquent No.1 who was the
 Sessions Judge, working in Bhavani at the
 relevant point of time. There was huge demand
 of money as there were some dispute arose in
 payment of amount the matter has leaked to the
 public. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. It is admitted by P.W.10 that Ex P.5 CD is
 edited, but it is not the case that the voice has
 been tampered by way of mimicry or somebody Page 34 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 has spoken. What was stated by P.W.10 is only
 editing of CD. Though the entire conversation
 has not been released, only few portion of the
 conversation in the CD file has been released,
 as long as voice of the persons contained in
 CD has not been tampered and it tallied with
 the original voices of the persons who actually
 spoke in that, I am of the view that the entire
 report of the forensic cannot be ignored
 altogether. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. When enquiry officer also in his findings
 recorded that after demand of huge money in
 this regard there arose dispute between
 Delinquent No.2 and P.W.6, as P.W.6 insisted
 for return of money, the audio clip has been
 published in order to prevent her claiming
 money further. Though one of the witnesses
 examined by the Investigating Officer, one
 Venkatesh spoken about the receipt of money,
 however, he died. Therefore, he could not be
 examined. Therefore, possibility of releasing
 the audio as found by the Enquiry Officer
 cannot be ruled out. From the above Page 35 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 circumstances, particularly, close proximity
 Delinquents No.1 and 2. Charges No.1 against
 the Delinquent No.1 is proved.” 37. The above findings of the Enquiring Judge, in his Final

 Enquiry Report, would be sufficient to form an opinion that the proved

 charge Nos.1 and 4 against the writ petitioner, are serious in nature,

 touching upon his integrity as a Judge. 38. The standard of proof required for departmental

 disciplinary proceedings and criminal trial, are distinct and different. High

 standard of proof is essential to convict an accused in a criminal trial.

 However, no such strict proof is required for punishing a public servant

 under the Discipline and Appeal Rules. The preponderance of probabilities

 are sufficient to punish an employee. Therefore examination and deposition

 of witnesses in the context of the Evidence Act , would not arise at all in

 departmental disciplinary proceedings. Even the moral turpitude or acting

 unbecoming of a public servant are misconducts warranting punishment

 under the Discipline and Appeal Rules. Thus the arguments of the petitioner

 that there are certain contradictions in the deposition of witnesses, are Page 36 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 unacceptable. More specifically, departmental disciplinary proceedings are

 initiated under the Discipline and Appeal Rules. 39. In the present case, the preponderance of probabilities are

 established beyond any pale of doubt. The clear findings of the Enquiring

 Judge, in his Final Report, would be sufficient to held that the charge Nos.1

 and 4 are proved against the delinquent Officer. The non-examination of

 original recording devices is not a ground to exonerate the writ petitioner in

 the presence case, since the Enquiry Officer appointed by the Division

 Bench, Dr.M.Sudhakar, the then Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cyber

 Crime Cell, in his report, categorically made a finding that voice samples

 have been identified and admitted by them, which have been compared by

 the Experts. Further, the voice of the persons contained in CD has not been

 tampered and it tallied with the original voices of the persons, who actually

 spoke in that. When the voice samples have been identified and admitted by

 the parties, the findings of the Enquiring Judge that charge Nos.1 and 4 are

 proved, are based on some evidence, which is sufficient for the purpose of

 punishing a public servant under the Discipline and Appeal Rules. Page 37 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 40. Regarding the compliance of rule of natural justice, it was

 followed scrupulously by the Disciplinary Authority. A preliminary enquiry

 was conducted to ascertain the truth with the assistance of the Forensic

 Sciences Department's report, after finding a prima facie case for initiation

 of departmental disciplinary proceedings, the charges were framed under

 Rule 17(b) of the Discipline and Appeal Rules. The delinquent Officials

 submitted their explanations and participated in the process of enquiry. The

 documents were produced and witnesses were examined. The delinquent

 Officials were permitted to cross-examine the witnesses and to peruse the

 records. The enquiry report submitted by the Enquiring Judge, was served

 on the delinquent officials, seeking their further objections on the findings.

 The explanations thereafter submitted were taken into consideration by the

 Disciplinary Authority. The decision was taken by the Hon'ble

 Administrative Committee to impose the penalty of removal from service and

 the said resolution was approved by the Hon'ble Full Court. Therefore, the

 case of the petitioner was considered at all levels, including the High Level

 Committee of the High Court. Thus this Court do not find any infirmity in

 respect of the procedures followed in the departmental disciplinary Page 38 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 proceedings. 41. Finally, regarding the quantum of punishment, we are of the

 opinion that the Judicial Officers are expected to maintain high level of

 integrity and in the present case, the charge Nos.1 and 4 against the writ

 petitioner, were held proved. The proved charges, viz., charge Nos.1 and 4

 are grave in nature, touching upon the integrity and honesty of the Judicial

 Officer. Therefore, the punishment of removal from service, cannot be

 construed as disproportionate to the gravity of the proved charges. Thus, we

 are not inclined to interfere with the quantum of punishment. Consequently,

 the present writ petition stands dismissed. However, there shall be no order

 as to costs. The connected miscellaneous petition is also dismissed. (S.M.SUBRAMANIAM,J.)
 (K.RAJASEKAR,J.)
 18-03-2024
 Index : Yes/No
 Internet: Yes/No
 Speaking order/Non-Speaking order
 Neutral Citation : Yes/No
 Svn

 To Page 39 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 1.The Chief Secretary to Government,
 State of Tamil Nadu,
 Public (Special-A) Department,
 Secretariat,
 Chennai-600 009. 2.The Registrar-General,
 Madras High Court,
 Madras. S.M.SUBRAMANIAM, J. AND
 K.RAJASEKAR, J. Svn

 Order in
 WP 1162 of 2023 Page 40 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP No.1162 of 2023 18-03-2024 Page 41 of 41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis