The appellant, the Alliance University, is aggrieved by

the order dated 10-8-2016, passed by the XXVII Additional

City Civil Judge, Bangalore city (CCH-9), whereby the

learned Judge has rejected the temporary injunction

application filed by the appellant, but has allowed the

temporary injunction application filed by the respondent-

defendants in their counter-claim. The appellant has filed

two Miscellaneous First Appeals, namely M.F.A. No.

6011/2016, and M.F.A. No. 6012/201. In the former MFA,

the appellant has challenged the rejection of its application

for temporary injunction; in the latter MFA, the appellant

has challenged the grant of temporary injunction to the 6 respondents. Since these two MFA's arise out of the same

factual matrix, since the legal issues overlap, since the

contentions raised by the learned Senior Counsel are

interconnected, the two MFA's are being decided by this

common order. 2. The appellant is also aggrieved by another part of

the impugned order, namely the rejection of its application

under Order I, Rule 10, read with Order VI, Rule 17 of the

CPC , for amending the plaint. The appellant has challenged

this part of the impugned order by filing a Writ Petition,

namely W.P.No. 48506/2016. Since the writ petition deals

with a separate application, since it involves a different set of

contentions, it is being decided by a separate order. This

order is concerned only with the two aforementioned MFA's

filed by the appellant University. 3. This case has a long and a chequered history

which, out of sheer necessity, needs to be narrated. For, the

events are relevant in order to understand the myriad

contentions and counter-contentions subsequently raised

by the learned Senior Counsel for the parties. 7 4. Mr. Madhukar Angur, the alleged Chancellor of the

appellant University, and Mr. Sudhir Angur, the respondent

No. 1, are real brothers. Mrs. Shaila Chebbi, respondent No.

2, and Mrs. Mala Gouda, respondent No. 3, are their real

sisters. Mr. Abhay Chebbi, respondent No. 4, is a son of

Mrs. Shaila Chebbi, and thus, the nephew of Mr. Madhukar

Angur. Mr. Prakash Siddappa, respondent No. 5, on the

other hand, is an ex-employee of the appellant University.

The bone of contention in the present case is the

management of the Alliance University. The contest is

between Mr. Madhukar Angur, who claims to be the

Chancellor of the University, appointed for life, and Mr.

Sudhir Angur who equally claims to be the lawfully

appointed Chancellor of the University. The other

respondents, named above, claim to be the directors of the

Alliance Business School Pvt. Ltd, the Sponsoring Body of

the appellant University. They are supporting the case of Mr.

Sudhir Angur. 5. Way back in 1997, Mr. Sudhir Angur had

established the Sainath Education Trust. Mr. Sudhir Angur

was the Managing Trustee. The Managing Trustees operated 8 the Alliance Business Academy. On 16-6-2005, the Alliance

Business School, ('the Company', for short), a private limited

company, was registered under the Company Act, 1956 . The

founding shareholders of the said Company where the two

sisters of Mr. Sudhir Angur, namely Mrs. Mala Gouda, who

held 5000 shares, and Mrs. Shaila Chebbi, who also held

another 5000 shares. Thus, the Company began with 10,000

shares. 6. Around 2007, Mr. Madhukar Angur was teaching at

the University of Michigan in the United States of America.

On 25-4-2007, he was inducted as a Director of the

Company. On 27-11-2008, he was appointed as the

Managing Director of the Company. Thus, on 20-5-2009, the

Board of Directors consisted of Mr. Madhukar Angur, as the

MD, Mrs. Mala Gauda and Mrs. Shaila Chebbi as the

Directors. During the period of 2005 to 2009, the shares of

the Company increased exponentially. On 20-5-2009, the

Board allotted 2,40,000 shares in favour of Mr. Madhukar

Angur. Subsequently, on 16-10-2009, Mrs Mala Gouda

transferred 2500 shares of hers to Mr. Madhukar Angur. On

the same day, she also transferred her remaining 2500 9 shares to Mr. Sachindananda Machineni. He was also

inducted as a Director of the Company. Likewise, on16-10-

2009, Mrs. Shaila Chebbi transferred her 5000 shares to Mr.

Madhukar Angur. On 16-10-2009 itself, both Mrs. Mala

Gouda and Mrs. Shaila Chebbi resigned from the Board of

Directors of the Company. 7. But on 6-4-2010, Mr. Madhukar Angur transferred

38% of his shares to his real sister, Mrs. Mala Gouda, and

5% of his shares to her husband, Mr. Srinivas Gowda, his

brother-in-law. 8. On 4-6-2010, the Company, the ABS Pvt. Ltd, was

converted into a non-profit Company; it was brought under Section 25 of the Company Act, 1956. 9. On 28-7-2010, the Alliance University Act, 2010 ('the Act", for short) was published in the Official gazette. The

said Act came into force on 2-8-2010. Under the Act , the

Company was declared as the "Sponsoring Body". According

to Section 15 (2) of the Act, the Managing Director of the

Sponsoring Body is to be appointed as the First Chancellor

of the University. The appointment was to be "for life". 10 Since at the relevant time, Mr. Madhukar Angur was the MD

of the Company, he was appointed as the First Chancellor of

the University; the appointment was "for life". On 16-9-2010,

the Government of Karnataka approved the establishment of

a private university in the name and style of "Alliance

University", at Anekal. 10. According to the Annual Returns of the Company,

for the years 2011-12 and 2012-13, Mrs. Mala Gouda and

Mr. Srinivas Gowda were shown to have the shares to the

extent of 43 %. However, when the Annual Returns of the

Company were published in 2013-14, Mrs. Mala Gouda

allegedly learnt that her shares and the shares of her

husband, Mr. Srinivas Gowda were transferred to Mrs.

Prinyanka B. S., the wife of Mr. Madhukar Angur. After the

year 2013, things get murky within the Company. The affairs

of the Company will eventually affect the functioning of the

Alliance University as well. 11. On 30-1-2015, Mr. Madhukar Angur, as the MD,

separately wrote to Mr. Sachidananda Rao Machineni, Mrs.

Priyanka B. S., Mr. Krishna Mohan Ramineni (who was one 11 of the Directors inducted on 5-3-2009), with regard to

offering his shares. On 16-2-2015, a notice was also issued

for calling a meeting of the Board of Directors of the

Company on 4-3-2015 and 5-3-2015. In the meeting held on

4-3-2015, Mr. Abhay Govind Chebbi, respondent No. 4 and

Mr. Prakash Siddappa, respondent No. 5, were appointed as

Additional Director of the Company. 12. After the meeting of 4-3-2015, the facts of the

case become unclear as both the sides, the appellant and the

respondents, have different versions of the events. According

to the appellant University, no meeting was called for on 5-3-

2015, and no meeting took place on that date. According to

the appellant, henceforth, the facts alleged by the

respondents are full of falsehood and fraud. 13. But according to the respondents, on 5-3-2015,

Mr. Madhukar Angur resigned from the office of Managing

Director, and from the Board of Directors of the Company.

Further, Mr. Madhukar Angur allegedly offered to transfer

1,22,500 shares of his to Mrs. Mala Gouda, respondent No.

3, and to Mr. Abhay Govind Chebbi, respondent No. 4. 12 Consequently, while 58, 800 equity shares were transferred

to Mrs. Mala Gouda, 63,700 equity shares were transferred

to Mr. Abay Govind Chebbi. Similarly, Mrs. Priyanka B. S.

also informed the Board of her intention to transfer her

1,70,500 shares to Mr. Prakash Siddappa, respondent No. 5

and to Mr. Shivappa Mantur. Thus, according to the

respondents, 56,000 equity shares were transferred to Mr.

Prakash Siddapa and 51,500 equity shares to Mr. Shivappa

Mantur. Moreover, Mr. Krishna Mohan Ramineni also

resigned from the office of Director of the Company. Further,

according to the respondents, on 5-3-2015, the Board of the

Company accepted the resignations of Mr. Madhukar Angur

and of Mr. Krishna Mohan Ramineni. 14. However, as Mr. Madhukar Angur was of the

opinion that the alleged transfer of his shares and his alleged

resignation were staged managed by the respondents, on

6-3-2015, he lodged a criminal complaint against some of

the respondents. In the criminal complaint, he claimed that

he was forced to resign from the Board, and was equally

forced to transfer his shares to Mrs. Mala Gouda and

Mr. Abay Govind Chebbi. However, after a thorough 13 investigation, the Police has filed a negative Final Report and

closed the case. 15. The respondents further claim that in April 2015,

Mrs. Priyanka also declared her intention to resign from the

Board of the ABS Company. Her resignation was accepted on

11-4-2015. On the same date, Mrs. Shaila Chebbi,

respondent No. 2, and Mrs. Mala Gouda, respondent No. 3,

were appointed as the Additional Director of the Company. 16. Moreover, according to the respondents, the

information with regard to Directors of the Company, and

with regard to the shares of the Company were uploaded to

the Registrar of Company ('the ROC', for short) through

e-filing on 13-4-2015. The e-fling was done under the digital

signature of Mr. Madhukar Angur, Mr. Krishna Mohan

Ramineni and Mr. Abhay Chebbi. However, as Mr. Madhukar

Angur, and Mr. Krishna Mohan Ramineni were aggrieved by

the misuse of their digital signature, they filed a complaint

with the ROC with regard to the illegal uploading of such

documents. They also lodged FIRs against the respondents

for illegally using their digital signature for uploading the 14 documents. The FIRs were registered as Crime Nos.

97/2015, 104/2015 and 105/2015. However, the said FIRs,

were quashed qua Mr. Sudhir Angur, Mrs. Shaila Chebbi,

Mrs Mala Gouda, Mr. Abhay Chebbi and Mr. Prakash

Budoor, by this court, by its order dated 4-10-2016, in Writ

Petition No. 19462-466/2016. 17. With regard to the uploading on 13-4-2015, the

ROC issued a notice to the Company and to Mr. Abhay

Chebbi, Mrs. Shaila Chebbi, Mrs. Mala Gouda and Mr.

Prakash Sidappa, on 7-5-2015, as to why the uploading

done by them on 13-4-2015 should not be invalidated and

why the constitution of the Board of Directors should not be

restored? By letters dated 2-6-2015, and 3-6-2015, the

above named persons gave their consent for invalidating the

DIR-12 forms, namely the information which was uploaded

on 13-4-2015. By order dated 8-6-2015 the ROC informed

the Company that the DIR-12 Forms have been marked as

"invalid". Further, on 9-6-2015, the Ministry of Corporate

Affairs informed Mr. Abhay Chebbi, respondent No. 4, that

the filing pertaining to the uploading done on 13-4-2015 is 15 "defective", and rectification of the same should be done

within a period of thirty days. 18. According to the respondents, on 30-9-2015,

Mrs. Shaila Chebbi, respondent No. 2, and Mr. Abhay

Chebbi, the respondent No. 4, were appointed as the

Directors of the Company from the post of Additional

Directors of the Company. 19. On 5-2-2016, Mr. Madhukar Angur was arrested

in an alleged case of rape purportedly committed on a

mentally challenged woman. According to the respondents,

on 11-2-2016, the Board of Directors of the Company

re-accepted the resignation of Mr. Madhukar Angur and

Mrs. Priyanka B. S. 20. On 23-2-2016, Mr. Krishna Mohan Ramineni

uploaded the DIR-12 Forms about the position of the

Directors, and about the position of the Shares of the

Company. 21. On 4-3-2016, an employee of the Company lodged

another criminal complaint against Mr. Madhukar Angur

wherein she claims that she has been raped by him. 16 Presently, according to both the parties before this court, the

investigation is still continuing in the said case. 22. On 14-3-2016, Mr. Madhukar Angur lodged a

complaint with the ROC requesting him to initiate a

criminal case against Mr. Sudhir Angur, Mr. Abhay Chebbi,

Mrs. Shaila Chebbi, Mrs. Mala Gouda, and Mr. Prakash

Budur for the offences of cheating, falsification of

documents, forgery, impersonation, using gorged documents

as genuine and for tampering with electronic records.

However, so far, the ROC has not initiated any action against

the aforementioned persons. 23. Further, according to the respondents, on

7-4-2016, the Company, as the Sponsoring Body of the

Alliance University, removed Mr. Madhukar Angur from the

post of Chancellor. Although this fact is being hotly

contested by the appellant before this court, but Mr.

Madhukar Angur has not challenged the resolution of the

Company ousting him from the said post before any court,

so far. 24. On 11-4-2016, one Ms. Shreya Sanjeev filed a civil

suit against the University, the Company, Mr. Madhukar

Agngur and others, namely O. S. No. 2911/ 2016 wherein

she claimed that she had purchased shares from Mr.

Shivappa Mantur. She has sought a declaration from the

civil court that her shareholding is valid. By order dated 30-

8-2016, the learned Civil Court has restrained Mr.

Madhukar Angur, Mrs. Priyanka B. S. and others from

interfering with the management of the Company and the

University. 25. The respondents further claim that Mr. Sudhir

Angur, respondent No. 1, was appointed as an Additional

Director of the Company on 15-4-2016. Subsequently, on

16-4-2016, he was appointed as the Chancellor of the

University. On 28-5-2016, he was appointed as the

Managing Director of the Company. Hence, according to the

respondents, presently, Mr. Sudhir Angur, the respondent

No. 1, is the MD of the Company, and the Chancellor of the

University. 26. Since the University was aggrieved by the

interference of Mr. Sudhir Angur and of others in its affairs

of the University, since Mr. Madhukar Angur claimed to be

the Chancellor for life, the University filed a civil suit

through the Chancellor for injunction against Mr. Sudhir

Angur and others, namely O. S. No. 3006/2016 before the

learned Civil Judge. Along with the civil suit, the University,

as the plaintiff, filed an application under Or. XXXIX, Rules

1 and 2 of CPC . The respondents not only filed their written

statements, but also filed their counter-claim. Along with

the counter-claim, the respondents also filed an application

under Or. XXXIX, Rules 1 and 2 of CPC . Subsequently, Mr.

Madhukar Angur also filed an application under Or. I, Rule

10 read with Or. VI, Rule 17 for amending the cause title

and the plaint of the civil suit. The three applications, so

filed, were decided by a common order, namely the

impugned order. Hence, the two MFAs, and the writ petition

filed before this court. 27. The two MFAs, mentioned hereinabove, shall be

decided separately by this common order. M. F. A. No. 6011/2016: 28. This Miscellaneous First Appeal has been filed by

the Alliance University challenging the Order dated

10-8-2016, whereby the learned Civil Judge has rejected the

appellant's application for temporary injunction filed under

Or. XXXIX, Rules 1 and 2 CPC . 29. Mr. Lakshminarayan, the learned Senior Advocate

for the appellant, has raised the following contentions before

this court:- Chancellor has to be with the consent of the Chancellor.

Under Section 19 of the Act, the Registrar is also appointed

by the Chancellor. Hence, the Chancellor is the supreme

authority in the University. 3) Section 4 (4) of the Act spells out the constituent

members of the body corporate. The body corporate includes

the Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor, members of the Board

of Governors, members of the Board of Management and the

Academic Council for the time being holding office. The body

corporate can sue and be sued in the name of the University.

But the right to sue depends on the cause of action. If the

University as a whole has a cause of action, then the

University will sue through the Registrar as prescribed by Section 4 (6) of the Act. But if a constituent part of the body

corporate has a cause of action, then the constituent part

has the right to sue under Section 4 (4) of the Act. In such a

scenario, Section 4(6) of the Act does not come into picture.

Further, Section 19 of the Act defines the powers of the

Registrar. Section 19 read with Section 4 (6) of the Act

clearly demonstrates that the Registrar performs merely a

clerical role under the latter provision. For, Section 4 (6) of

the Act merely requires that the Registrar should sign and

verify the pleadings, and all processes in the suits, and

"proceedings shall be issued to and be served on the

Registrar." If the Registrar were to refuse to sign and verify 22 the pleadings, then the University is not helpless. It can sue

through its Chancellor under Section 4 (4) of the Act.

Moreover, even under Or. XXIX, Rule 1 of CPC , a pleading

may be signed and verified on behalf of a corporation by any

director. Hence, the finding given by the learned Civil Judge

that the suit is not maintainable as it has been presented

through the Chancellor, such a finding is clearly belied by Section 4 (4) of the Act. 4) Since the suit could be presented through the

Chancellor, the learned Civil Judge is unjustified in

concluding that the suit was not maintainable. Hence, the

further conclusion drawn by the learned Civil Judge, that

the appellant has failed to make out a strong prima facie

case in its favour, is equally misplaced. 5) The learned Civil Judge has ignored the fact that

Mr. Madhukar Angur was appointed as the first Chancellor

under the Act. Since he was the first Chancellor of the

University, under Section 15(2) of Act, he was appointed for

life. Since the appointment was for life, since he had been

appointed under the statute, he could not be removed from 23 the office of Chancellor by the respondents, or by the

Sponsoring Body. Yet, the learned Civil Judge has concluded

that by order dated 7-4-2016, Mr. Madhukar Angur was

removed from the post of Chancellor of the University by the

Sponsoring Body. Such a finding clearly shows a poor

understanding of Section 15 (2) of the Act, in particular, and

of Section 15 of the Act in general. 6) Both in the plaint and in the oral arguments, the

appellant had pleaded that a great fraud was played by the

respondent Nos. 1 to 4. According to Article 15 of the

Articles of Association of the Company, only the MD has the

power to convene the Board meeting. The appellant has

denied that Mr. Madhukar Angur, as the MD, had ever called

a meeting on 5-3-2015. Further, the appellant has denied

that the shares of Mr. Madhukar Angur and Mrs. Priyanka

were ever transferred to the respondents. Thus, the alleged

transfer of shares on 5-3-2015 is merely a fraud played by

the respondents. 7) The allegation of fraud is further buttressed by the

fact that on 7-5-2015 the ROC had issued a notice to the 24 respondents that he had received information that the

uploading done by the respondents on 13-4-2015, with

regard to the transfer of shares of Mr. Madhukar Angura and

Mrs. Priyanka, was fraudulent. Thus, the ROC had asked

the respondents to show cause as to why the said uploading

should not be invalidated. Since their fraud was discovered,

therefore by letters dated 2-6-2015 and 3-6-2015, the

respondents had informed the ROC to invalidate the

uploading of 13-4-2015. Consequently, the uploading was

invalidated by Order dated 8-6-2015. 8) The learned Civil Judge has also ignored the fact

that once the uploading was invalidated on 8-6-2015, the

second uploading was done on 23-2-2016 by Mr. Krishna

Mohan Ramineni. However, so far, even the second

uploading has not been approved by the ROC. In fact, on 2-

6-2016, the ROC has informed the respondents that the

groups of directors would not be approved unless Mr.

Madhukar Angur and the respondents settle their disputes.

Thus, according to the said letter even the uploading of 23-2-

2016 is yet to be approved by the ROC. Therefore, unless the

transfer of shares is approved, unless the appointment of the 25 directors is approved, the respondents cannot claim to be

either the directors of the Company, or to be members of the

Sponsoring Body. Thus, they cannot interfere with the

functioning of the appellant University. However, these

glaring facts have been totally ignored by the learned Civil

Judge. But once the allegation of fraud was leveled against

the respondents, the learned Civil Judge should have been

on his guard. However, the learned Civil Judge has accepted

the transfer of shares on 5-3-2015 as the gospel truth.

Hence, the learned Civil Judge has misapplied himself. 9) The learned trial court has ignored the relevant

provisions of the Companies Act for a valid transfer of

shares. The Companies Act provides an elaborate procedure

for transfer of shares. Firstly, the transfer of shares is

subject to the Article of Association of the Company.

According to Section 56 of the Companies Act, a company

shall not register a transfer of securities of the company,

unless the deed of the transfer of shares is delivered to the

company along with the Share Certificate. However, in the

present case, the Share Certificates have never been 26 produced by the respondents either before the company, or

before the learned Trial Court. Moreover, the Companies (Registration Offices and

Fees) Rules, 2014 deals with the power of the ROC, with the

manner of filing of declarations or intimations etc. which are

required to be made by a company before the ROC. Rule 5 of

the said Rules bestows powers on the ROC as conferred by

the Act, or the rules made thereunder. Rule 7 of the said

Rules deals with "Manner and conditions of filing" of

declarations, or intimation etc to the ROC. Rule 8 of the said

Rules deals with "Authentication of documents." Rule 10 of

the said Rules prescribes the "Procedure on receipt of any

application or form or document electronically." Under Rule 10

(4) of the said Rules, the ROC has the power to invalidate

the declaration, or intimation etc. Thus, the transfer of

shares has to be approved by the ROC. But in the present

case, there is no evidence to show that the alleged transfer of

shares from Mr. Madhukar Angur or from Mrs. Priyanka

Angur were approved by the ROC. 10) Furthermore, the appellant has denied that Mr.

Madhukar Angur has ever resigned from the Board of the

Company. Yet despite these denials, the learned Judge has

failed to examine the relevant provisions of law, and the

relevant documents. Section 168 of the Companies Act, 2013

prescribes the procedure for acceptance of a resignation by a

Director. The provision requires that the Director should give

a notice to the company, the company should intimate the

ROC, in such manner, and in such form as may be

prescribed, the Director shall also forward a copy of his

resignation along with detailed reasons for the resignation to

the Registrar. Likewise, Rule 16 of the Companies

(Appointment of Directors) Rules, 2014 requires that the

copy of the Director's resignation should be sent to the ROC

within thirty days of his resignation. However, the said

procedures, contained in the Companies Act and the Rules

of 2014, have not been followed. Thus, the alleged

resignation by Mr. Madhukar Angur is a fraud played by the

respondents. Yet, the learned Civil Judge has accepted

Mr. Madhukar Angur's resignation as a fait accompli.

Although the learned Civil Judge is supposed to cull out the 28 truth about the case, yet the learned Judge has accepted

the documents submitted by the respondents as the gospel

truth. If the learned Civil Judge had probed a little deeper,

rather than relying on the face value of the documents

submitted by the respondents, he would have realized that

the court was being taken out for a ride. But the learned

Civil Judge has failed to examine the case in the proper

perspective. Hence the perversity of the order is writ large on

the face of the record. 11) The learned Civil Judge has, thus, ignored the

existence of a strong prima facie case in favour of the

appellant University. Moreover, since the respondents are

alien both to the Company and the Sponsoring Body, they

are alien to the functioning of the University. Thus, the

balance of convenience is also on the side of the University to

ensure that the respondents, who are unconnected with the

University, are not permitted to meddle with the affairs of the

University. Most importantly, if the administration of the

University is permitted to be high-jacked by the respondents,

an irreparable loss would be caused to the University.

Therefore, all the three ingredients for grant of temporary 29 injunction exist in favour of the appellant. Yet the learned

Civil Judge has dismissed the application for Temporary

Injunction filed by the appellant. Hence, the impugned order

deserves to be set aside by this court. 30. On the other hand, Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the

learned Senior Counsel for the respondents, has raised the

following counter-arguments:- Once the trial court has exercised its discretion to grant, or

refuse to grant a temporary injunction, based on an objective

consideration of the material placed before it, and as

supported by cogent reasons, the appellate court should be

slow to interfere based on a de novo consideration of the

matter which could yield a different opinion on the issues of

prima facie case, balance of convenience , irreparable injury

and equity. The appellate court could interfere with an order

granting or refusing to grant a temporary injunction order if

the order suffers from perversity, or manifest arbitrariness. 30 However, the appellate court would not be justified in

substituting its discretion with that of the trial court. In

order to buttress this plea, the learned Senior Counsel has

relied upon the case of Wander Ltd. v Antox India [1990

(Supp) SCC 727]. 2) A suit by a body corporate can be filed only by the

competent authority. According to Section 4 (6) of the Act,

the Registrar of the University is the only competent

authority to file a suit. Moreover, since the Act is a special

legislation, it would override the general provision contained

in Or. XXIX, Rule 1 of CPC . Therefore, only the Registrar of

the University could have filed the suit. Arguendo, if it were

accepted that Or. XXIX, Rule 1 CPC would be applicable,

even then, Mr. Madhukar Agnur has not been authorised by

the University to file the suit. Thus, the learned Civil Judge

was justified in concluding that the suit has not been filed by

a competent person. Hence, the suit is not maintainable.

Therefore, the University does not have a strong prima facie

case in its favour. 3) While considering the grant of a temporary

injunction in favour of a party, the learned court is required

to consider the question with regard to the maintainability of

the suit. Hence, the learned trial court was justified in

examining the said issue, and in concluding that the suit

was not even maintainable as it had been filed by an

incompetent authority. 4) Although the Chancellor of the University may be

the supreme authority, although Mr. Madhukar Angur was

appointed as a Chancellor for life, but such an appointment

is not inviolable. In order to understand the appointment of

the first Chancellor and the power of the Sponsoring Body to

remove him, one would need to comprehend the architecture

of the Act. According to the Act, the Sponsoring Body has

both the administrative and financial control over the

University. Section 11 of the Act prescribes the powers of the

Sponsoring Body. According to Section 11 (i) of the Act, the

Sponsoring Body, "at its discretion, shall appoint, or

reappoint, or terminate the appointment of the Chancellor."

According to Section 15 (1) of the Act, "the Chancellor shall

be appointed by the Sponsoring Body." Both the provisions 32 use the word "the Chancellor" without making any

distinction between "the first Chancellor" and the

"subsequent Chancellor". Hence, the power to appoint and

terminate the service of the Chancellor is bestowed upon the

Sponsoring Body. Even otherwise, the power to appoint

would necessarily include the power to terminate the service. In order to support this plea, the learned Senior Counsel has

relied upon the case of Heckett Engineering Co. v. Their

Workmen [(1977) 4 SCC 377]. Moreover, although at the

first blush Section 15 (2) of the Act seems to suggest that the

appointment of the first Chancellor is for life, but it is not an

inviolable appointment. Relying on the case of Dr. Bhool

Chand, Chancellor v. Kurukshetra University [AIR 1968

SC 292], the learned Senior Counsel has pleaded that even if

the appointment of a Chancellor were for life, even then he

can be removed from the post if "he is physically decrepit,

mentally infirm, or grossly immoral." Thus, the Sponsoring

Body has ample power to terminate the services of Mr.

Madhukar Angur from the post of Chancellor. Further, since there were allegations of having

committed gross irregularities with the affairs of the 33 University, since there were allegations of rape upon Mr.

Madhukar Angur, the Sponsoring Body was well justified in

terminating his service from the post of Chancellor.

Furthermore, Mr. Madhukar Angur has not even challenged

the termination order so far. Thus, the learned Civil judge

was well justified in concluding that Mr. Madhukar Angur

was legally terminated from his post of Chancellor. Hence, he

is alien to the running of the university. Thus, he could

neither have filed the suit on behalf of the University, nor

can be permitted to run the University. Therefore, the

University does not have a strong prima facie case in its

favour. 5) There is sufficient evidence to prove that Mr.

Madhukar Angur and Mrs. Priyanka Angur had transferred

their shares to some of the respondents on 5-3-2015. The

transfer deed, signed by the transferor and the transferee

were duly produced before the learned trial court by the

respondents. Even if the first uploading of 13-4-2015 had

been invalidated by the ROC by its order dated 8-6-2015,

even then such invalidation would not make the transfer

illegal. What has been invalidated is the uploading, and not 34 the transfer of shares. Moreover, while invalidating the

uploading, the ROC had given time of thirty days to the

respondents to upload the fresh DIR-12 forms. This clearly

proves that only the uploading was invalidated and not the

transfer of shares. 6) According to Section 168 of the Companies Act, the

resignation of a director takes effect from the date on which

the notice is received by the Company. Any subsequent non-

compliance with the procedural filing will have little

consequence on the validity of the resignation. In order to

support this plea, the learned Senior Counsel has relied on

the case of Mother Care (India) Limited v. Prof.

Ramaswamy P. Aiyar [ ILR 2004 Kar 1081]. According to

the learned Senior Counsel, since Mr. Madhukar Angur had

resigned from the Board of Directors on 5-3-2015, the

resignation came into effect on the said date. Hence, even if

the subsequent procedure were not followed, it would not

dilute the legality of the resignation. Moreover, since the

resolution accepting the resignation was submitted by the

respondents, at the threshold stage of adjudication, the

learned trial court could not have gone beyond the said 35 resolution. Prima facie there was documentary evidence that,

indeed, Mr. Madhukar Angur had resigned, on 5-3-2015,

from the Board of Directors. Thus, the learned Civil Judge

was justified in concluding that Mr. Madhukar Angur was no

longer on the Board of Directors. 7) Despite the elaborate arguments raised by the

learned Senior Counsel for the appellant that the learned

trial court should have considered the relevant provisions of

the Companies Act with regard to transfer of shares, and

with regard to the resignation of a director from the Board of

Directors, the learned trial court is not expected to hold a

mini-trial at the initial stage of considering the temporary

injunction application. At the initial stage, the learned Judge

can only consider the pleas raised and the documents

submitted by the parties. The documents are to be treated as

prima facie evidence for the pleas raised by a party. Hence,

the learned Civil Judge was justified in not considering the

provisions of the Companies Act while hearing the temporary

injunction application. 8) Although much has been made of the alleged fraud

committed by the respondents, but the pleadings in the

plaint are bereft of any details. The learned Senior counsel

for the appellant, Mr. Laxminarayan, has stressed that the

respondents have not denied the claim about fraud in

specific terms, therefore, they have admitted the same. But

relying on the case of Bishundeo Narain v Seogeni Rai [

AIR 1951 SC 280], the learned Senior Counsel for the

respondent has pleaded that a party pleading fraud must

give particulars about the commission of fraud. For, general

allegation of fraud cannot be taken note of by the trial court,

no matter how strong the language is while alleging fraud.

Since, the pleading in the plaint was vague, the same could

be denied only in general terms. Hence, the question of the

respondents "admitting fraud" does not even arise. Thus,

even the allegation of fraud has not created a strong prima

facie case in favour of the appellant. Therefore, Mr. Sajjan Poovayya, the learned Senior

Counsel has supported the impugned part of the order

dismissing the temporary injunction application filed by the

appellant. 31. Heard the learned Senior Counsel for the parties,

examined the impugned order, and considered the case law

cited at the Bar. 32. The following issues arise for the consideration of

this court: 33. While examining the existence of prima-facie case,

the learned Civil Judge was justified in considering the issue

about the maintainability of the suit through the Chancellor.

After all, the locus of the plaintiff and the maintainability of

the suit are the two most essential issues to be examined,

even at the threshold of the suit. In case, the suit is found to

be non-maintainable, it would directly affect the grant or 38 refusal of the temporary injunction. Although it is true that

during the course of trial, the issue of maintainability of the

suit would be a preliminary issue to be framed by the

learned trial court, but nonetheless even at the initial stage

of considering the temporary injunction application, the

learned trial court is required to consider the issue, albeit in

a prima facie manner. The observations made with regard to

the maintainability of the suit while dealing with a temporary

injunction application is, thus, not a judicial finding binding

on the parties. It is merely an opinion expressed as one of

the reasons for granting or for refusing the temporary

injunction. 34. Section 4 of the Act deals with establishment of the

University. The relevant portion of the Section, dealing with

the University "suing or being sued", is as under: 35. A bare perusal of the said provisions clearly leads

to certain conclusions: firstly, Section 4 (4) of the Act merely

prescribes the constituent members of the body corporate.

Secondly, it neither bestows the right to sue, nor imposes

the liability to be sued on the constituent members. Thirdly,

the right to sue, and the liability of being sued is specifically

bestowed on the University, which is a body corporate.

Fourthly, according to Section 4 (6) of the Act, all the suits

by the University shall be signed and verified by the

Registrar. Therefore, reading both the provisions co-jointly

makes it abundantly clear that a suit can be filed only in the

name of the University, the suit shall be signed and verified

by the Registrar. Thus, a suit filed by the University can be

filed only through the Registrar and not through the

constituent members, including the Chancellor. 40 36. The contention raised by Mr. Laxminarayana, the

Senior Counsel for the appellant, that each member of the

corporate body would be free to sue and be sued under Section 4 (4) of the Act is clearly untenable. For, such a wide

interpretation of Section 4 (4) of the Act would make Section

4(6) of the Act otiose. An interpretation which renders

another provision of the Act otiose cannot be accepted.

Moreover, Section 15 (5) of the Act bestows different powers

upon the Chancellor. But the power to sue on behalf of the

University is conspicuously missing in Section 15 (5) of the

Act. Thus, Mr. Laxminarayana, the learned Senior Counsel,

is unjustified in pleading that the suit can be filed by the

University through the Chancellor. 37. Of course, the learned Senior Counsel has tried to

buttress his plea with the help of Or. XXIX, Rule 1 of CPC ,

but even the said contention is unacceptable for two

reasons: firstly, once there is a special law specifically

dealing with the right to file a suit by the University, the

special law would prevail over the general law. Therefore, the

provisions of the Act, namely Section 4 (6) of the Act, would

over-ride Or. XXIX, Rule 1 of CPC . Secondly, even if the 41 Chancellor could file the suit under Or. XXIX, Rule 1 of CPC ,

the Chancellor would need to be authorised by the body

corporate. However, in the present case, Mr. Madhukar

Angur has not been authorised by the body corporate to file

the suit on behalf of the University. Therefore, the reliance

on Or. XXIX, Rule 1 of CPC does not buttress the appellant's

case. 38. Mr. Laxminarayana, the learned Senior Counsel,

has also raised a hypothetical plea that in absence of the

Registrar, the University would be entitled to file a suit

through the Chancellor. Firstly, there is no evidence to show

that the Registrar was unavailable when the suit was filed.

Secondly, this contention was not raised before the learned

trial court when the application for temporary injunction was

argued before the said court. Therefore, a new plea, that too

based on facts, cannot be raised before this court for the first

time. Thirdly, even if the Registrar were unavailable, the

officer in-charge of the post of Registrar would be available to

file the suit for the University. Hence, the contention raised

by the learned Senior Counsel is unsustainable. 42 39. Thus, prima facie, the suit could not have been

filed by the University through the Chancellor. Therefore, the

learned Civil Judge was justified in concluding that one of

the main ingredients for making out a prima facie case in

favour of the appellant is conspicuously missing in the case. 40. Mr. Laxminarayana, the learned Senior Counsel,

has vehemently contended that the learned Trial Court has

misapplied itself while concluding that Mr. Madhukar Angur

is no longer the Chancellor of the University as he was

removed from the said post by the Sponsoring Body. Thus,

Mr. Madhukar Angur could not file the suit on behalf of the

University. But according to the learned Senior Counsel,

since Mr. Madhukar Angur was appointed as the Chancellor

for life, he could not be removed from the said post either by

the respondents, or by the Sponsoring Body. Hence, the

conclusion drawn by the learned Civil Judge is against the

provisions of the Act. 41. Sections 11 and 15 of the Act deal with the powers

of the Sponsoring Body, and with the post of the Chancellor,

respectively. In order to answer the issue whether a 43 Chancellor appointed for life could be removed or not, it is

imperative to interpret both these provisions. The relevant portion of Section 11 of the Act is as

under: The relevant portions of Section 15 of the Act is
 as follows: (2) The current Chairperson of the
 Sponsoring Body shall be the first Chancellor,
 who shall hold the office of the Chancellor for life. (3) The subsequent Chancellor shall be
 either the Chairperson of the Sponsoring Body
 or such other person including the Director of the
 Sponsoring Body, at the relevant time, when such
 an appointment is being considered, as may be
 decided by the Sponsoring Body. (4) The subsequent Chancellor so
 appointed shall hold office as determined by the
 Sponsoring Body. 42. Mr. Laxminarayana, the learned Senior Counsel,

has harped on Section 15 (2) of the Act in order to plead that 44 since Mr. Madhukar Angur was appointed as a Chancellor

for life, he could not be removed from the said post either by

the Sponsoring Body, or by the respondents. According to

the learned Senior Counsel, Section 15 (2) of the Act is a

provision by itself, and is unconnected to either Section 11

(1) of the Act, or to Section 15 (3) of the Act. For, Section 15 of the Act makes a distinction between the first Chancellor

and the "subsequent" Chancellor. While the first Chancellor

is appointed by virtue of the fact that he is "the current

Chairperson of the Sponsoring Body", the "subsequent

Chancellor" is appointed by the Sponsoring Body. Hence, the

first Chancellor is not appointed by the Sponsoring Body,

but is appointed under the statute. Secondly, while the first

Chancellor is appointed "for life", the "subsequent Chancellor" 43. However, the pleas raised by the learned Senior

Counsel are unacceptable. For, firstly, not only the Act has 45 to be read as a whole, but even the provisions dealing with

appointment of the Chancellor would have to be read co-

jointly. As one provision would affect the scope and ambit of

other provisions, for they cover the same sphere. To interpret

provisions individually, while ignoring their inter-

relationship, is to deviate from the well established rules of

interpretation; a course this court is weary of treading. 44. Section 11 of the Act bestows powers on the

Sponsoring Body. It further empowers the Sponsoring Body

to exercise these powers separately and "at its discretion." Section 11 (1) of the Act emphatically bestows the power "to

appoint or re-appoint or terminate the appointment of the

Chancellor." Interestingly, the provision uses the words "the

Chancellor". It does not distinguish between "the first

Chancellor", or "the subsequent Chancellor". The power

granted to the Sponsoring Body in Section 11 (1) of the Act is

further reiterated in Section 15 (1) of the Act. According to Section 15 (1) of the Act, "The Chancellor shall be appointed

by the Sponsoring Body." Again even this sub-section of Section 15 of the Act uses the words "the Chancellor". This

provision also does not distinguish between "the first 46 Chancellor" and "the subsequent Chancellor". Thus, a co-

joint reading of Sections 11 (1) and 15 (1) of the Act makes it

abundantly clear that all the Chancellors, whether the first

one or the subsequent ones, would have to be appointed by

the Sponsoring Body. 45. Further, Section 11 of the Act prescribe that the

Sponsoring Body may invoke its power "at its discretion".

Similarly, while dealing with the appointment of "the

subsequent Chancellor", the word used are "as may be

decided by the Sponsoring Body". Thus, the appointment of

the Chancellor is at the discretion of the Sponsoring Body.

However, Section 15 (2) of the Act controlled the discretion of

the Sponsoring Body when the question of appointment of

the first Chancellor arose. According to Section 15 (2) of the

Act, the Sponsoring Body has no other option but to appoint

"the current Chairperson of the Sponsoring Body" as the first

Chancellor. Since Section 15 (2) of the Act curbed the

discretion of the Sponsoring Body, it is an exception to Sections 11 (1) and 15(3) of the Act. But merely because the

discretion is limited by Section 15 (2) of the Act, the said

sub-section does not denude the Sponsoring Body of its 47 power to appoint "the Chancellor". The power to appoint

continues, although in the case of appointment of the first

Chancellor the discretion is cribbed, cabined and confined. 46. Undoubtedly, under Section 15 (2) of the Act, the

tenure for the first Chancellor is "for life"; under Section 15

(4) of the Act, the tenure for "the subsequent Chancellor" is

to be determined by the Sponsoring Body. However, the

issue is whether the appointment "for life" deprives the

Sponsoring Body of its power to "terminate the appointment

of the Chancellor" as bestowed under Section 11 (i) of the Act

or not? Moreover, does the appointment "for life" mean the

appointment shall continue till the last breath of the first

Chancellor? 47. A bare perusal of Section 11 (i) of the Act clearly

reveals that it is not subject to the provision of Section 15(2) of the Act. If the power to terminate the appointment of the

first Chancellor were not to be given to the Sponsoring Body,

then Section 11 (1) of the Act would have begun with the

words, "subject to Section 15 (2) of the Act". However, these

words are conspicuously missing from Section 11 (i) of the 48 Act. Thus, the power "to terminate the appointment of the

Chancellor" is intact and is bestowed unconditionally upon

the Sponsoring Body under Section 11 (i) of the Act. 48. Furthermore, if Section 15 (2) of the Act were to

deprive the Sponsoring Body of its power to terminate the

service of the first Chancellor, the said sub-section would

have begun with a non-obstante clause and would have

clearly stated that "Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 11 (i) of the Act", the appointment of the first

Chancellor is for life. However, Section 15 (2) of the Act does

not contain any non-obstante clause. Thus, the power to

terminate the appointment of the Chancellor, as granted

under Section 11 (i) of the Act, is applicable even on the first

Chancellor. Thus, the appointment of the first Chancellor

"for life" does not deprive the Sponsoring Body of its power to

terminate the service of the first Chancellor, if necessary. 49. Of course, Mr. Laxminarayana, the learned Senior

Counsel, has argued that unless the Act is amended, the

appointment of the first Chancellor is for life. Hence, his

services cannot be terminated from the said post. However, 49 this argument is unsustainable, as it leads to absurd

results. Merely because an appointment is meant "for life", it

does not mean that the appointment cannot be set at

naught. For, in case the Chancellor were to become mentally

or physically incapacitated, or become insolvent, or is

convicted of offence involving moral turpitude, or is facing a

criminal trial for a grave offence, would the University still be

saddled with such a Chancellor only on the ground that his

appointment is for life? Obviously, the legislature in its

wisdom could not have given a carte blanche tenure to the

first Chancellor. Since a University is a temple of learning,

since the aim and object of the Act was to establish a

University of national repute, therefore, the Act has granted

ample power to the Sponsoring Body to terminate the service

of "the Chancellor", which would also include "the first

Chancellor", in its discretion. Undoubtedly, the discretion

would have to be exercised objectively, and reasonably.

Therefore, the wide interpretation being given to Section 15

(2) of the Act is unacceptable as it would lead to absurd and

anomalous situations. It is trite to state that an 50 interpretation that may lead to absurdity cannot be

accepted. 50. The main issue is not whether the first Chancellor

could be appointed by the Sponsoring Body or not, or

whether his services could be terminated by the Sponsoring

Body or not? The basic question before the learned Trail

Court was whether Mr. Madhukar Angur has been removed

from the Chancellorship legally or illegally? For, if he has

been removed illegally, then Mr. Sudhir Angur, the

respondent No. 1, would not be justified in claiming that, in

fact, he is the legally appointed Chancellor of the University. 51. The appellant had both pleaded and argued before

the learned Trial Court that the respondents had played

fraud on the Sponsoring Body, and on the University. The

appellant had also argued that a fraud was being played by

the respondents upon the court. However, despite the said

pleas, the learned Trial Court has not taken the said plea

seriously. Once the said submissions were made, in fact, the

learned Civil Judge should have been on his guard. The

learned Civil Judge should have examined the pleading with 51 care and caution, should have scratched the surface of the

case, and probed a little deeper. But the learned Civil Judge

has failed to do so. 52. Mr. Laxminarayana, the Senior Counsel, is

justified in claiming that once the said stand was taken in

the plaint, the respondents were duty bound to specifically

deny the same. However, they have failed to do so. Thus,

they have admitted the submissions made in the plaint.

However, Mr. Sajjan Poovayya, the learned Senior Counsel

for the respondents, has contended that only vague

allegations of fraud have been leveled against the

respondents, therefore only a general denial could be had

from the side of the respondents. Therefore, a vague denial

does not amount to an admission of the allegations. 53. A bare perusal of the plaint clearly reveals that

the appellant has not made vague allegations against the

respondents with regard to the alleged fraud played by them

on the Sponsoring Body, the Company and upon the ROC. In

fact, Paras 8, 9, 10, 11 and 15 of the plaint deal specifically

with the allegations of fraud being played by the 52 respondents. Yet, the learned Trial Court has ignored these

relevant paragraphs of the plaint. As stated earlier, the

learned Trial Court is duty bound to go through the plaint

and the written statement, if any, before granting or refusing

to grant a temporary injunction. However, the learned Trail

Court has totally ignored the same. Instead, the learned Trial

Court has relied upon documents which were produced by

the respondents, although the appellant had questioned

their genuineness and legal validity. 54. Although the approach of the learned Trial Court

while dealing with questionable documents may not be

correct, but nonetheless, as discussed above, the learned

Civil Judge is well justified in concluding that the suit is not

maintainable as it has been filed by the Chancellor. Once the

learned Trial Court has concluded that the suit is prima

facie not maintainable as it has not be filed by the Registrar

as required by Section 4 (6) of the Act, then it was well

justified in dismissing the temporary injunction application

filed by the appellant. For, if the prima facie case is not made

out by the appellant, there was no need for the learned Trail

Court to enter into the issues of balance of convenience and 53 irreparable loss or even into the issue of the alleged fraud

being played by the respondents. 55. Mr. Laxminarayana, the learned Senior Counsel

for the appellant, has raised certain contentions with regard

to the learned Trial Court not considering the relevant

provisions of the Companies Act dealing with acceptance of

resignation of a director, and with transfer of shares.

However, once the learned Trial Court has concluded that

prima facie the suit is not maintainable, there is no need for

it to probe the case further. To examine the case further

would have been an exercise in futility. For, even if the

learned Trial Court were convinced of the pleas raised by the

learned Senior Counsel, even then the main relief could not

be granted to the appellant. Since the main relief could not

be granted, the question of granting the temporary

injunction in favour of the appellant does not even arise. 56. For the reasons stated above, this court does not

find any merit in the present Miscellaneous First Appeal.

It is, thus, hereby dismissed. Misc. First Appeal No. 6012/2016: 57. The appellant, the Alliance University, has

challenged the part of the impugned order dated 10-8-2016,

passed by the XXVII Additional City Civil Judge, whereby the

learned Civil Judge has granted the temporary injunction to

the respondents in the counter-claim filed by them. Since

the relevant facts have already been narrated, hereinabove,

they are not being repeated again. Although in their counter-

claim the respondents would be the plaintiff, but they shall

continue to be referred to as 'the respondents', since they are

respondents before this court. 58. Mr. Ashok Haranahalli, the learned Senior

Advocate, and Mr. Vivek Reddy, the learned Senior Advocate,

have led the frontal attack on the respondents in this appeal.

Mr. Laxminarayana, the learned Senior Counsel, has merely

elaborated on the contentions raised by him in the previous

Miscellaneous First Appeal, discussed above. 59. Reiterating the earlier plea of Mr. Laxminarayana,

the learned Senior Counsel, Mr. Ashok Haranahalli, the

learned Senior Counsel, has also pleaded that while dealing 55 with the temporary injunction application filed by the

respondents in their counter-claim, the learned Civil Judge

is legally bound to consider the pleadings and the

documents. However, the learned Civil Judge has not

examined the pleadings in proper perspective. Moreover, the

temporary injunction can be granted only if the respondents

make out a prima facie case in their favor. However, they

have failed to do so. Yet still, the learned Civil Judge has

granted a temporary injunction in their favour. Secondly, relying heavily on Or. VIII, R. 6 A of the CPC ,

Mr. Ashok Harnahalli, the learned Senior Counsel, has

pleaded that the counter-claim filed by the respondents was

not even maintainable under the said provision. For, the suit

was filed by the Alliance University. The reliefs sought in the

suit were in relation to the University. Thus, the University

was the plaintiff, and not Mr. Madhukar Agnur. Mr.

Madhukar Angur was merely the presenter of the suit. But

nonetheless, it is the University which is the plaintiff.

However, the counter-claim has been filed against

Mr. Madhukar Angur, "against his wives, his associates and

anyone claiming under him". However, neither 56 Mr. Madhukar Angur is the plaintiff, nor his wives, or

associates, or anyone claiming under him are the plaintiffs.

According to Order VIII, Rule 6-A of CPC , a counter-claim

can be filed only against the plaintiff and not against any

other person. Thus, the counter-claim is not maintainable. Thirdly, since the counter-claim has been filed against

Mr. Madhukar Angur, who is not the plaintiff in the suit, the

main reliefs prayed against him cannot be granted by the

learned Civil Court. Thus, the question of granting the

temporary injunction in favour of the respondents does not

even arise. Hence, the grant of temporary injunction in

favour of the respondents is illegal. Fourthly, even while arguing against the counter-claim

and against the temporary injunction application filed by the

respondents, the appellant had repeatedly pointed out that

the respondents had played fraud both with the Sponsoring

Body, and with the ROC. Moreover, the appellant had

questioned the genuineness of the documents produced by

the respondents. But despite the plea raised by the

appellant, the learned Civil Judge has accepted the 57 questionable documents as genuine. Therefore, the learned

Civil Judge has misapplied himself. 60. On the other hand, Mr. Vivek Reddy, the learned

Senior Counsel for the appellant, has pleaded that the

respondents have suppressed material facts in the counter-

claim. Thus, they are committing fraud on the court. Firstly, the respondents have nowhere mentioned as

to how, and on what date they became directors in the

Company, the Sponsoring Body. They have not placed any

evidence to show how the shares were transferred in their

favour, whether the transfer of shares were ever approved by

the ROC, when was Mr. Sudhir Angur inducted as a director

of the Company. The absence of these essential facts proves

the appellant's case that the alleged proceedings after 5-4-

2015 are all fake and forged. Thus a fraud was played by the

respondents upon the Company. Secondly, the respondents have not mentioned that

the first uploading by them, on 13-4-15, was invalidated by

the ROC. They have not mentioned that Mr. Madhukar

Angur had filed a complaint before the ROC that his digital 58 signature was used illegally, that the ROC had discovered

their fraud, that they had given their consent to have the

uploading of 13-4-2015 declared as 'invalid', that

subsequently, by order dated 8-6-2015 the ROC did declare

the uploading as 'invalid'. In fact, they have cleverly skipped

over the entire episode. By suppressing these essential facts,

the respondents have played fraud on the learned trial court. Thirdly, they have not mentioned the date on which

Mr. Madhukar Angur was allegedly removed from the post of

Chancellorship. They have baldly claimed that he was

removed from the post of Chancellor. Although the learned

Civil Judge has relied upon the order dated 7-4-2016 for

holding that by the said order Mr. Madhukar Angur was

dismissed from the post of Chancellor, but no such order or

date has been mentioned in the counter-claim. Thus, the

said order has no factual foundation in the pleadings. Most

interestingly, although the suit was filed on 15-4-2016, and

the counter-claim was filed on 5-7-2016, yet in the counter-

claim the dismissal order dated 7-4-2016 is not even

mentioned. This itself creates a genuine doubt about the

dismissal order dated 7-4-2016. Since the learned Civil 59 Judge has not examined the counter-claim closely, the

learned Trial Court has over-looked this essential lacunae in

the respondents' case. Instead, the learned Civil Judge has

relied upon the dismissal order dated 7-4-2016 as though it

were a genuine document. Fourthly, in absence of the fundamental facts of the

case, the respondents have failed to establish a prima facie

case in their favour. Yet, the learned Civil Judge has

concluded that the respondents have established a prima

facie case in their favour. Such a finding is belied by the

counter-claim itself. Fifthly, the learned Civil Judge has relied upon the

notification dated 16-4-2016 in order to conclude that

Mr. Sudhir Angur was appointed as the Chancellor of the

University. However, the learned Civil Judge has overlooked

the fact that the counter-claim does not even mention the

said notification. Since the learned Civil Judge has not

examined the counter-claim minutely, as is required by law,

the learned Trial Court has failed to perform its legal duty. 60 Sixthly, since the respondents have failed to establish

a prima facie case, neither the balance of convenience, nor

the question of irreparable loss is on their side. Still the

learned Civil Court has granted the temporary injunction in

their favour. 61. Mr. Laxminarayana, the learned Senior Counsel,

has reiterated his elaborate arguments with regard to the

fact that the learned Civil Court should have considered the

relevant provisions of the Companies Act in order to decide if

the alleged resignation of the Mr. Madhukar Angur was in

consonance with the provisions of the law, whether the

shares were legally transferred to the respondents, and

whether the respondents were legally inducted in the Board

of Directors of the Company or not. According to the learned

Senior Counsel, since the learned trial court has failed to

examine these issues, it has failed to perform its judicial

function in accordance with law. Therefore, the part of the

impugned order granting the temporary injunction in favour

of the respondents is arbitrary, capricious, and perverse. It

deserves to be interfered with. 62. On the other hand, Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the

learned Senior Counsel for the respondents, has forcefully

argued that the counter-claim is, indeed, maintainable

against Mr. Madhukar Angur. For, the denotation of the

cause title itself reveals that the real plaintiff is not the

University, but Mr. Madhukar Angur himself. Further, in the

plaint, in the temporary injunction application, and in the

written statement filed against the counter-claim, at

numerous places, Mr. Madhukar Angur has claimed to be

the plaintiff. Furthermore, it has been the consistent effort of

Mr. Madhukar Angur to assert his alleged rights ostensibly

through the University. It is for this reason that the relief

prayed for in the counter-claim is not only against

Mr. Madhukar Angur, but also against anyone claiming

through him. Moreover, Order VIII, Rule 6-A of the CPC ,

uses the words, "cause of action", and not "the same cause of

action." Therefore, the respondents are justified in raising

other causes of action against the appellant. In order to

buttress this plea, the learned Senior Counsel has relied

upon the case of Jag Mohan Chawla v Dera Radha Swami

Satsang [(1996) 4 SCC 699]. Secondly, there is no question of the respondent

suppressing any material facts from the purview of the

learned trial court. In fact, the learned Civil Judge has noted

the fact about the first uploading in the impugned order.

According to the learned Civil Judge, the respondents had

pointed out the said fact to the court. Moreover, according to

the learned Civil Judge, the letter dated 2-6-2015, whereby

the respondents had given their consent to the ROC to

invalidate the uploading of 13-4-2015, was produced by the

respondents. Further, according to the impugned order, it is

the respondents who had produced the letter dated 8-6-

2015, whereby the ROC had granted the respondents a

period of thirty days for uploading the information about the

Board of Directors of the Company. Similarly, the

respondents had submitted the letter dated 8-7-2015,

whereby the respondents informed the ROC about the

pendency of civil suit No. O. S. 25382/ 15 , wherein the

respondents were restrained from further uploading of the

information before the ROC without the permission of the

court. Hence, the respondents had placed the relevant and

material facts before the learned trial court. 63 Thirdly, even with regard to the transfer of shares of

Mr. Madhukar Angur and Mrs. Priyanka Angur, the relevant

information was placed before the learned Civil Court. The

shares were duly transferred; the deeds of transfer (Form No.

SH-4) were submitted before the learned Trial Court; the

minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors recording

the transfer of shares were also submitted before the learned

Trail Court. Thus, the respondents had placed all the

relevant facts before the learned Civil Court. Hence, the

argument raised by Mr. Vivek Reddy, the learned Senior

Counsel, should be rejected by this court. Lastly, the arguments of Mr. Laxminaryana, the

learned Senior Counsel, that the learned Trail Court should

have examined if the procedure for acceptance of

resignation, and for transfer of shares have been adhered to

or not, are premature arguments. For, at the initial stage of

dealing with an application for temporary injunction, the

learned Trail Court is not supposed to hold a mini-trial.

These are issues which need to be framed, and proven

during the regular trial. Hence, there was no need for the 64 learned Civil Judge to enter into these controversies at the

threshold. 63. Heard the learned counsel for the parties, perused

the impugned order, and examined the record. 64. Needless to say, injunction springs from equity.

Being an equitable relief, the court must not only be alive to

the requirements of law, but also should be aware of the

principles of equity while granting an interim injunction. In

the case of Lakshminarasimhiah and Others v. Yalakki

Gowda [AIR 1965 Mys 310] it was observed as under: 65. Undoubtedly, while considering the grant or

refusal of a temporary injunction, the court needs to

examine three factors, namely the existence of a prima facie

case, the balance of convenience, and the irreparable loss. In

turn, while considering the existence of prima facie case, the

court should examine the question of locus, the issue of

maintainability of the suit, the existence of a cause of action,

and the existence of a triable case. 66. Of course, in the case of Wander Ltd. (supra), the

Hon'ble Supreme Court has defined the limits of the

appellate court while dealing with exercise of discretionary

power either by the subordinate Judge or by a Single Judge.

The Apex Court observed as under: 67. Thus, the ultimate issue before this court is

whether the learned trial court has exercised its discretion

reasonably or arbitrarily, judiciously or capriciously, in

accordance with settled principles of law regulating grant of

interlocutory injunction or de hors the said principles or

not? But before this ultimate issue can be decided, this court

would have to consider whether the learned trial court has

performed its judicial duty while dealing with the application

of temporary injunction or not? 68. In the case of Maria Margarida Sequeira

Fernandes and Others (supra), the Apex Court has opined

as under: 69. Order VIII, Rule 6 A of the CPC deals with

counter-claim by defendant. It is as under: 6A. Counter-claim by defendant: (1) A defendant in a suit may, in addition to his
 right of pleading a set-off under rule 6, set up, by
 way of counter-claim against the claim of the
 plaintiff, any right in respect of a cause of action
 accruing to the defendant against the plaintiff
 either before or after the filing of the suit but
 before the defendant has delivered his defence or
 before the time limited for delivering his defence
 has expired, whether such counter-claim is in the
 nature of claim for damages or not: 70. A bare perusal of Order VIII, Rule 6A of the CPC clearly reveals that the counter-claim is to be filed "against

the claim of the plaintiff". It can be filed with regard to "any

right or cause of action accruing to the defendant", but

"against the plaintiff". That the counter-claim can be filed

only "against the plaintiff" is further borne out by Or. VIII,

Rules 6 B to 6 F of the CPC . Thus, the counter-claim cannot

be filed against any other person or entity who is not the

plaintiff. It is, indeed, trite to state that the purpose of

permitting a counter-claim to be filed in a suit is to lessen

multiplicity of litigation. Since the suit and the counter-claim

are to be tried together, the common trial permits the same

court to decide the issues which may not only be common, 69 but also may be proved by same or similar evidence.

Therefore the counter-claim can be filed only qua the

plaintiff. Of course, it is true that through the counter-claim

the defendant is permitted to raise other cause of action,

besides the ones raised by the plaintiff. But nonetheless, the

focus of the other cause of action still has to be "against the

plaintiff", and not against others. 71. A bare perusal of the suit clearly reveals that it is

a suit filed by the Alliance University. Even if the suit has

been filed through the Chancellor, nonetheless, it is a suit

filed by the University. Hence, the plaintiff is the Alliance

University. Moreover, it is the Alliance University which is

seeking certain reliefs for itself from the court. It is not

seeking any relief qua Mr. Madhukar Angur. In fact, it is

because the plaintiff is the University, that the learned Civil

Judge had dismissed the application filed by Mr. Madhukar

Angur for amending the cause title and the plaint in the

impugned order. Thus, even according to the learned Civil

Judge, the University is the plaintiff, and not Mr. Madhukar

Angur. 72. Even if Mr. Madhukar Angur is the presenter of

the suit, he is not the plaintiff. For he is merely like a

postman who has brought the suit to the court. But a

postman cannot be treated as the author of the letter.

Mr. Madhukar Angur, thus, remains a presenter and cannot

be treated as the plaintiff. Interestingly, in the counter-claim

the respondents themselves address Mr. Madhukar Angur as

"the presenter of the suit". Yet, they have filed the counter-

claim not against the University, but against Mr. Madhukar

Angur. In fact, the reliefs sought by the respondents in the

counter-claim are squarely against Mr. Madhukar Angur,

and not against the University. Since Mr. Madhukar Angur is

not the plaintiff, the counter-claim cannot be filed against

him. 73. Mr. Sajan Poovayya, the learned Senior Counsel

for the respondents, is certainly not justified in claiming that

Mr. Madhukar Angur is the plaintiff. According to him, since

in the plaint, in the application for temporary injunction,

and in the written statement to the counter-claim, Mr.

Madhukar Angur has repeatedly claimed himself to be the

plaintiff, therefore, he is the plaintiff. But mere bad drafting 71 would not change the legal position that the suit is filed by

the Alliance University through its Chancellor for reliefs qua

itself. The University as the plaintiff has not sought a single

relief in favour of Mr. Madhukar Angur. If Mr. Madhukar

Angur were the real plaintiff, he would have sought some

relief for himself. Yet, the suit is silent qua him. 74. Moreover, the respondents cannot be permitted to

blow hot and cold simultaneously. For, in the prayer clause

of the counter-claim, they refer to Mr. Madhukar Angur as

"the presenter of the suit." Thus, they themselves admit that

Mr. Madhukar Angur is not the plaintiff, but is merely "the

presenter of the suit." 75. Further, when Mr. Madhukar Angur had filed an

application for amending the suit, and for treating him as

the plaintiff, the respondents had opposed the said

application. At the time of consideration of the said

application, the respondents had argued that since the relief

is sought by the University for itself, Mr. Madhukar Angur

should not be permitted to come on the record as the

plaintiff. According to the respondents, the University is the 72 plaintiff. Yet, curiously, the respondents have not only filed

the counter-claim against Mr. Madhukar Angur, but have

also sought reliefs against him. Clearly, the counter-claim is

not maintainable as it has been filed against Mr. Madhukar

Agnur. 76. Although the learned Civil Judge has considered

the issue with regard to the maintainability of the suit, but

when it came to the issue of maintainability of the counter-

claim, the learned Civil Judge has turned a Nelson's eye. If

the learned Civil Judge had examined the counter-claim, it

would have been obvious that the counter-claim was not

filed against the University, the plaintiff, but was filed

against Mr. Madhukar Angur who is not the plaintiff before

the court. While considering the issue of prima facie case in

favour of the respondents, while dealing with the counter-

claim, the learned Civil Judge was required to examine the

maintainability of the counter-claim. But the learned Civil

Judge has failed to do so. Thus, the impugned order suffers

from non-application of judicious mind, from arbitrariness,

and from perversity. 77. Once it is concluded that the counter-claim was

not maintainable as it has not been filed against the plaintiff,

the University, naturally the main reliefs sought for in the

counter-claim could not be granted. Since the main relief

cannot be granted in favour of the respondents, naturally,

the temporary relief could never have been granted in their

favour. This crucial aspect, too, has been ignored by the

learned Civil Judge. Once the foundation of maintainability

of counter-claim goes, the edifice of prima facie case falls

apart. Thus, the learned Civil Judge was not justified in

concluding that the respondents have a prima facie case in

their favour. 78. In the case of Jag Mohan Chawla (supra) the

Hon'ble Supreme Court dealt with the issue whether a

counter-claim could be made on a different cause of action

than the one brought by the plaintiff? The Hon'ble Supreme

Court opined as under: 79. There can be no quarrel with the principle

established by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Jag Mohan Chawla (supra). Therefore, Mr. Sajan Poovayya,

the learned Senior Counsel, is justified to the limited extent

that the respondents could bring other independent cause of

action by filing a counter-claim. However, still the trees are

missed for the wood. What is still pertinent to notice is that

even the other independent cause of action must relate to

"the plaintiff", and not to someone else. In the present case,

as discussed above, the plaintiff is the University, and not

Mr. Madhukar Angur. Therefore, the counter-claim must be

against the University, and not against Mr. Madhukar 75 Angur. However, the counter-claim filed by the respondents

is, plain and simple, against Mr. Madhukar Angur. Thus,

prima facie it is not maintainable. 80. Since the counter-claim is not maintainable

against the University, neither the learned Civil Judge, nor

this court needs to go into the questions if any material facts

were hidden from the purview of the learned Trial Court, or

whether any fraud was practiced by the respondents either

on the Sponsoring Body or on the ROC, or on the Civil Court

itself, or whether the provisions of the Companies Act were

followed by the respondents while accepting the alleged

resignation of Mr. Madhukar Angur, or while allegedly

transferring the shares of Mr. Madhukar Angur, or whether

Mr. Sudhir Angur was legally inducted as a director of the

Company or not. These issues do not survive for

consideration when the counter-claim is found to be non-

maintainable. For, the questions of balance of convenience,

and of irreparable loss would arise only after the

respondents first establish that they have a prima facie case

in their favour. In the absence of existence of prima facie

case in their favour, to go into the questions of balance of 76 convenience, and of irreparable loss would be again an

exercise in futility. 81. Hence, the learned Civil Judge was not justified in

concluding that the respondents have a prima-facie case,

and the balance of convenience in their favour. The learned

Civil Judge was equally unjustified in concluding that in

case the temporary injunction were not granted in favour of

the respondents, then they are likely to suffer irreparable

loss. The learned Civil Judge has drawn these conclusion

without examining the issue of maintainability of the

counter-claim against the University, the plaintiff. Therefore,

the finding of the learned Civil Judge is not only arbitrary,

but is also perverse. Thus, the part of the impugned order

granting the temporary injunction in favour of the

respondent is legally unsustainable. 82. In conclusion, this court is of the opinion that

there is no merit in the M.F.A. No. 6011/ 2016. It is, hereby,

dismissed. However, since the part of the impugned order

dated 10-8-2016, granting temporary injunction in favour of

the respondents, is legally unsustainable, the said part of 77 the order is set aside. Resultantly, the M.F.A. No. 6012/2016

is allowed. 83. But before this court parts with this case, this

court would like to pass certain observations and directions

for the learned Trail Court. Firstly, the pleadings of both the

parties are rather confusing, and are wanting in the art of

drafting. If the parties do move any application for amending

the pleadings so as to set the record straight, the learned

Trial Court should consider the application (s) in accordance

with law. If the amendments are allowed, the parties shall be

free to move their respective applications under Order

XXXIX, Rules 1 and 2 of the CPC . The learned Trial Court is

directed to decide the same strictly in accordance with law. Secondly, any observation made hereinabove on the

factual aspect of the case is merely prima facie in nature.

For, the said observations are not based on appreciation of

evidence. Thus, the observations do not amount to binding

judicial findings. Therefore, the learned Trial Court should

not be influenced by any such observations, on facts of the

case, as made by this court. The learned Trial Court is 78 expected to decide the suit independently, and strictly in

accordance with law. Thirdly, although the fight appears to be between the

appellant and the respondents, but the real fight is between

two real brothers over the management of the University.

However, the real victims of this in-fight are the students,

the faculty, and the staff of the University. It is they who are

caught in the cross-fire. Thus, it is imperative that the civil

suit be decided as expeditiously as possible, and preferably

within six months from the date of the receipt of the certified

copy of this order. If necessary, to decide the case within the

stipulated period of six months, the learned Trial Court shall

hold day to day hearing of the case. Needless to say, the

parties are expected to cooperate with the learned Trial

Court for bringing the dispute to a speedy end. Sd/- JUDGE

Np/-