Date : 20.11.2023

 Heard Mr. A. K. Bhuyan, learned counsel for the petitioner. Also heard Mr.
R. J. Baruah, learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State. Page No.# 2/4

 This application under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 has been filed by the petitioner, namely, Mahendra Chand, who has been
detained behind the bar since 31.10.2023 in connection with Chandmari P. S.
Case No. 353/2023 under section 306 of the IPC. The gist of the accusation in this case is that on 24.9.2023, one Shipra
Sarkar, SI of Police lodged an FIR before the Officer-in-charge of Chandmari
Police Station, inter-alia, alleging that one committed Suicide on 16.09.2023 at

about 5.10 PM by jumping from the flat which was situated at the 6 thfloor of an
apartment known as Subansiri Apartment which belongs to the petitioner. It is also stated that in the FIR that the said Tangchi K. Sangma was
employed in Medicare Call Centre as a service representative and said call
center was involved in a cybercrime in Cyber P. S. Case No. 08/2023 under Section 120B / 419 / 420 / 385 / 467 / 471 / 468 / 507 , of the IPC read with Section
65 / 66 / 66B / 66C and 66D of the Information Technology Act, 2000. It is also alleged in the FIR that the deceased was working in the said
Medicare Call Centre at the instigation of the present petitioner and another co-
accused named in the FIR in order to make more profit and thinking that the
work she has been engaged in is legal. However, when the deceased came to
know about the arrest of the present petitioner in a cyber-fraud case, she
apprehended that she may also be arrested in the said case and also
apprehended that her reputation would be lost and hence, she committed
suicide. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that there is no allegation of
aid or instigation on the part of the present petitioner in the FIR. It is further submitted by the learned counsel for the petitioner that the
petitioner is ready to co-operate in the investigation if he is released on bail. Page No.# 3/4

On the other hand, learned Additional Public Prosecutor has produced the case
diary of Chandmari P. S. Case No. 353/2023 and has submitted that the
petitioner had engaged the deceased to work in the Medicare Call Centre and
which was involved in Cyber scam without the knowledge of the said deceased. It is further submitted by learned Additional Public Prosecutor that the
investigation of the case is at initial stage and the petitioner has been detained
behind the bar only for last 21 days and on that ground he has opposed the
grant of bail to the present petitioner. I have considered the submissions made by learned counsel for both the
sides and have gone through the materials placed before this Court including
the case diary of Chandmari P. S. Case No. 353/2023. It appears from the record that apart from the allegations made in the FIR
and suspicion that the petitioner might have abetted and aided in commission of
suicide by the deceased, there is no material on record at this stage of
investigation to suggest that there was any aid or instigation by the present
petitioner in commission of the suicide by the deceased Tangchi K. Sangma. In view of the above, further custodial detention of the present petitioner
is not justified for sake of investigation in this case regarding the allegations
levelled against the present petitioner in the FIR lodged by the SI Shipra Sarkar
Therefore, the present petitioner, namely, Mahendra Chand, is hereby allowed to
go on bail of Rs. 30,000/- (Rupees Thirty Thousand only) with one surety of like
amount subject to the satisfaction of the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Kamrup (M)with the following conditions: