Prathiba M. Singh, J. 1. The present suit is one of 27 connected suits, all of which relate to
disputes between the Plaintiff - M/s MS Shoes East Ltd. (now known as
Tommorrowland Limited) and various Defendants/Respondents who were
Underwriters of a public issue brought out by the Plaintiff-Company in 1995.
The background of the cases is the same but the underlying facts vary from
case to case, hence separate judgements are being delivered.
Background and Summary of the proceedings 2. The background of the disputes is that the Plaintiff had launched a
public issue sometime in 1995 for issuance of Fully Convertible Debentures
(hereinafter 'FCDs') to public in India as well as Non-Resident Indians. The
public issue was underwritten by various Underwriters, including the
Defendant herein. The public issue was closed on the earliest closing date on
the basis that it was over-subscribed. However, subsequently SEBI found CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 1 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

some irregularities and directed the Plaintiff to give an option to all the
subscribers to either continue their offers or withdraw the same. Pursuant
thereto, several subscribers withdrew the offers and the issue was under-
subscribed. The Plaintiff then sought to raise a demand against the
Underwriters to subscribe to their respective portions of the underwritten
FCDs. The Underwriters only partially subscribed, which led to disputes
between the Plaintiff and the Underwriters. There was an arbitration clause in
the Underwriting Agreements which was invoked by the Plaintiff. A ld. Single
Judge of the Delhi High Court had appointed a Sole Arbitrator - Justice
(Retd.) Ms. Manju Goel to adjudicate the disputes between the Plaintiff and
all the Underwriters who were 267 in number. Several of the Underwriters
settled their disputes during arbitral proceedings. However, the Defendants in
the present 27 disputes herein, for various reasons, did not appear or remained
ex parte in the arbitral proceedings, resulting in ex parte awards being passed
against them. The said awards are the subject matter of the batch of cases
being currently dealt with by the Court. The Plaintiff has filed suits seeking
judgment in terms of the awards and the Defendants have resisted the same.
Some of the Defendants have raised objections under Sections 30 and 33 of
the Arbitration Act, 1940 and some Defendants have sought remand under Section 16 of the Act. Brief Facts of the Present Case: 3. The Plaintiff launched a public issue for 1,75,84,800 zero interest
unsecured Fully Convertible Debentures (hereinafter, 'FCDs') of Rs.199
each for cash and at par aggregating to Rs.349,93,75,200/- to the public and
issue of 31,28,500 FCDs of Rs.250/- each for cash at par aggregating to
Rs.78,21,25,000/- to non-resident Indians / persons of Indian origin resident CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 2 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

abroad / OCBs on firm allotment basis together aggregating to
Rs.428,15,00,200/- (hereinafter 'public issue'). The disputes in these cases
relate only to FCDs issued to the public in India. The issue was publicized
along with a prospectus, which was duly vetted by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (hereinafter 'SEBI'). 4. The issue was opened on 14th February, 1995 and the closing date for
the issue was to be not later than 24th February 1995. The earliest closing date
was 18th February, 1995. The Lead Managers to the issue were SBI Capital
Markets Ltd., Tourism Finance Corporation of India Limited, Lloyds Finance
Limited, Indian Merchant Banking Services Ltd. and Bank of Baroda. The
Registrar to the issue was MAS Services Pvt. Ltd. The FCDs, which were to
be allotted to the subscribers, were to be compulsorily and automatically
converted into one equity share of Rs. 10/- each fully paid up, at a premium
of Rs. 189/- in the case of Indian public, on the date of conversion i.e. on the
expiry of seventeen and a half months from the date of allotment of these
debentures. Each debenture was to have a face value of Rs.199/-. No interest
was payable thereon. 5. Until the allotment of shares, no rights and privileges were to be
enjoyed by the debenture holders. The sums received in respect of the public
issue were to be retained in a separate bank account and the Company would
not have access to the fund unless the approval of the Delhi Stock Exchange
was obtained for allotment. The Letters of Allotment / Debentures
Certificate(s) /Share Certificate(s) were to be delivered within three months
from the date of allotment. In the event of over-subscription, the allotment
was to be made by the Board in consultation with the Regional Stock
Exchange at Delhi and a SEBI nominated representative was to be associated CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 3 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

in the process of finalisation of the basis of allotment, in case of over-
subscription by more than two times. In case of non-allotment of the
debenture(s) applied for, the excess amounts were to be refunded to the
concerned applicants within 70 days from the closing of the Subscription List. 6. The entire issue was underwritten, insofar as the component offered to
the Indian public for subscription was concerned. The clause relating to
underwriting in the prospectus reads as under: 7. There were 267 Underwriters in total, including the abovenamed
Defendants - V. Jethalal Ramji/V. Jethalal Ramji Share Brokers Pvt. Ltd. and
its Partners. The prospectus specified the exact amount which was
underwritten by each of the Underwriters. It was certified by the Board and
the Lead Managers that the resources of the Underwriters are adequate to meet
their respective underwriting obligations. 8. In the case of the present Defendant, the amount which was
underwritten was to the tune of Rs.49,99,000/- (25,125 FCDs of Rs. 199/-
each for cash at par aggregating to the total figure of Rs. 49.99 lakhs) by
Underwriting Agreement dated 10th January, 1995. The ld. Arbitrator has
considered it to be 25,121 FCDs. 9. The public issue opened on 14th February, 1995, as scheduled. On 17th
February, 1995, a communication was issued by the Registrar and Lead
Manager to the issue informing the Plaintiff that the issue was fully CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 4 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

subscribed. Accordingly, on 18th February, 1995, an advertisement was issued
by the Plaintiff in various print outlets stating that the issue would be closed
on the said date and the issue was closed on the earliest closing date i.e., 18th
February, 1995. 10. However, SEBI noticed certain anomalies in the public issue offer price
of Rs.199/- and accordingly directed the Plaintiff-Company to disclose to the
public that the shares were quoted on cum-rights basis, which means that it
was not adjusted for the higher equity that would result from a rights issue
that was scheduled to follow the public issue. Corrigenda are stated to have
been issued by the Plaintiff on 13th February, 1995, prior to the opening of the
issue. However, some advertising continued to allegedly reflect the market
price. SEBI is then stated to have issued a letter dated 6th March, 1995
addressed to the Lead Manager of the issue, directing that an option be given
to investors to either withdraw their applications or continue to subscribe to
the issue. The said letter reads as under: 11. The above letter is disputed by the Plaintiff. However, from the
contemporaneous evidence available on record, there is no doubt that, in fact,
letters were addressed by SEBI to the Plaintiff directing it to give an option to
the investors to get refund of money paid by them with interest. Public
announcements/notifications were also issued by SEBI asking the company
to refund application monies to all those who wanted to withdraw from the
public issue. Subsequent to the said direction, a large number of the
subscribers withdrew their applications and the subscription fell below the
minimum of 90% of the total issue stated in the prospectus. 12. Devolvement notices were issued by the Plaintiff to all the
Underwriters on 15th March, 1995, informing them that the issue had been
undersubscribed, and hence, the underwriters' obligations as per the CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 6 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

Agreements entered into therewith, are triggered. Again, on 24th March, 1995
and 17th April, 1995, letters/notices were sent by the Plaintiff-Company to the
Underwriters informing them of their liability. Since the Underwriters did not
subscribe and pay the said amount within the stipulated period of 60 days after
the closure of the issue, the Plaintiff-Company had to refund the entire
application money collected from the public. 13. The Plaintiff then sought the intervention of the Delhi Stock Exchange
and requested for reference of the disputes between the Plaintiff and the
Underwriters to arbitration, vide letter dated 2nd May, 1995. However, vide
letter dated 26th April, 1997, the Delhi Stock Exchange refused to conduct the
arbitration proceedings, which led the Plaintiff-Company to file petitions
under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 before the High Court of Delhi.
Vide the initial order dated 14th March, 2007 in two suits filed by the Plaintiff
under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act i.e. CS (OS) No. 1299A/1997 and
CS(OS) No. 845-1076/2006, Hon'ble Ms. Justice (Retd.) Manju Goel was
appointed as the ld. Sole Arbitrator. The relevant extract of the order dated
14th March, 2007 reads as under: 14. Thereafter, by order dated 22nd April, 2010 in CS(OS) No.
1199A/1998, similar disputes were also referred to the same Ld. Arbitrator.
Cumulatively, there were total of 267 claim petitions, which were referred to
the ld. Arbitrator. 15. In respect of 103 Respondents against whom claims were settled and
withdrawn, awards were passed on 25th September, 2010. Similar awards
were passed qua 3 Respondents on 14th May, 2011 and qua 34 Respondents
on 21st January, 2012. The awards under challenge in the present 27 connected
suits before the Court were passed on various dates between May to July,
2012. 16. In the case of the present Defendant, the Ld. Arbitrator pronounced the
Award on 28th May, 2012, by which the Ld. Arbitrator awarded a total sum
of Rs. 25,94,082/- along with pendente lite and future interest in favour of the
Plaintiff-Company in the following terms: The respondent did not pay even his share of the fees of
 the Arbitration, which the claimant has paid. The
 claimant incurred further expenses on behalf of the
 Arbitration towards service of notice and publication in
 the newspaper. The venue for the Arbitration has always
 been the PHD House at Khelgaon, August Kranti Marg
 and total expenses towards venue charges comes to Rs.
 5,05000/-. Further Amicus Curiae was also engaged to
 ensure that no injustice is done to any respondent who
 is proceeded exparte. Further there have been costs
 involved for keeping records and bringing them to the
 venue. The claimant has assessed such cost per
 respondent at Rs. 11,050/- which I assess as reasonable.
 Further an administrative cost of Rs. 2500/- is also
 being assessed for the Arbitrator for the entire
 proceedings since throughout the course of this matter
 no such cost has been charged by the Arbitrator. Further the stamp paper of Rs. 4,880/- is annexed to the
 award. Hence the total cost is assessed at Rs. 18,430/- This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

 payable by the respondent to the claimant for the entire
 proceedings. Needless to say that the administrative cost
 of Rs. 2500/-is initially payable by the claimant to the
 Arbitrator." 17. Similar awards have been passed against all the Underwriters who are
Defendants in the 27 suits presently being decided. The said awards are sought
to be enforced by the Plaintiff under Sections 14 and 17 of the Arbitration
Act, 1940, seeking pronouncement of judgment and decree in terms of the
respective Awards for the aforesaid amount along with interest @18% p.a. till
the date of realisation of payment. 18. The Defendants/Respondents, upon being served, have resorted to
filing two different types of objections to the Awards. One set of Respondents
have filed objections under Section 16 of the Arbitration Act, 1940,
challenging the legality of the award and other Respondents have filed
applications under Sections 30 and 33 of the Act, seeking setting aside of the
awards and opposing the prayer for pronouncement of judgment in terms of
the awards. The present case is one where objections under Sections 30 and 33 of the Arbitration Act have been filed by the Defendants/Respondents. 19. The broad grounds raised by the Defendants are: This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582 d) That the computation of damages and award of interest is not as per
 law. 20. In the present case, an application being I.A. No. 12983/2012 filed
under Section 28 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 seeking post-facto extension of
time for passing of award was already allowed and disposed of by order dated
2nd September, 2014. I.A. No. 4180 of 2020 (filed by the Plaintiff on 30.05.2020 for fixation of a
date for virtual hearing) 21. The present application has been rendered infructuous and is disposed
of. I.A. No. 4181 of 2020 (for exemption) 22. For the reasons stated in the application, exemption is allowed.
Application is disposed of. CS(OS) 2159 of 2012 (under Sections 14 and 17 of the Arbitration Act)
and Objections filed by the Defendant under Sections 30 and 33 of the
Arbitration Act 23. The present suit has been filed by the Plaintiff under Sections 14 and 17 of the Arbitration Act, seeking judgment and decree in terms of the Award
passed by the ld. Sole Arbitrator, dated 28th May, 2012 passed in arbitration
case being M/s MS Shoes East Limited v. V Jethalal Ramji & Ors. The
Defendant has filed an application under Sections 30 and 33 of the Arbitration
Act, 1940, seeking setting aside of the impugned award. 24. One of the objections raised by the Defendant is in respect of service in
the arbitral proceedings and for having been proceeded ex-parte. An objection
is taken that the Defendants were wrongly proceeded ex-parte without being
served the notice of arbitration. It is submitted that the Plaintiff failed to prove CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 12 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

the proper service of notice of arbitration on the Defendants and therefore the
award is not sustainable in law. 25. Mr. Sachdeva however submits that the Defendant was all along aware
of the reference to arbitration in Suit No. 1299/1997 as also proceedings
before the ld. Arbitrator. The Defendant was duly served. Repeated notices
were issued by the ld. Arbitrator to the Defendants. 26. A perusal of the records in the present case would show the service that
was effected upon the Defendant: NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

 of which is the same as the Authorised Signatory for the present
 Defendant. e) Copy of the order dated 3rd April, 2010, by which the Ld. Arbitrator
 proceeded ex-parte, since there was non-appearance despite service. f) Notice dated 2nd June, 2012 sent by the Ld. Arbitrator informing the
 Defendants of the passing of the Award dated 28th May, 2012, issued
 at the same address as the underwriting agreement, which was duly
 delivered to 'Vijay Dalal, Partner', as seen from the postal receipt on
 the India Post Website. 27. In view of such an irrefutable record of service and Defendants' own
participation in the reference to arbitration, this Court holds that it is evident
that the Defendants voluntarily chose not to appear before the ld. Arbitrator
and that service can no longer be disputed in this matter. The impugned Award
does not deserve to be set aside due to any such alleged legal misconduct on
part of the ld. Arbitrator. The objection as to service is therefore completely
untenable and is rejected. 28. The principal question that now arises is to the legality and validity of
the impugned award. Submissions of the Defendant on Merits 29. The principal objection raised by the Defendant in challenging the
impugned award, is that there was no devolution of liability upon the
Underwriters, after the public issue was closed on the earliest closing date and
once the issue was admittedly, fully subscribed. It is submitted that there was
an obligation in the underwriting agreement to keep the public issue open for CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 14 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

at least 10 calendar days. The company on its own chose to close the public
issue on 18th February, 1995 as it was over-subscribed. 30. It is further submitted that though this issue was specifically
highlighted and raised in the orders referring the matter to arbitration and
though specific issues were also framed by the Ld. Arbitrator vide order dated
6th December, 2008, the said issues have not been adjudicated in a mechanical
manner by the ld. Arbitrator. 31. Mr. Siddharth Mehra, ld. Counsel appearing for the Defendants points
out various discrepancies in the Award. His submission is that in paragraphs
32 & 33 of the Award, the Ld. Arbitrator notices that 232 claims are being
adjudicated together. However, most of the cases where the Respondents had
appeared were settled. It is only in respect of such parties, who did not appear
before the Ld. Arbitrator that the award of damages has been passed. 32. He thereafter relies upon paragraph 28 of the Award to argue that the
Ld. Arbitrator has come to the conclusion that the total loss was to the tune of
Rs.349 crores and only Rs.2.80 crores was recovered. On that basis, the
division of the damages has been done on all the Respondents. He submits
that thus it was clear that the strategy of the Claimant before the Ld. Arbitrator
was to indulge in `Respondent shopping'. With those Respondents who
appeared before the Ld. Arbitrator, the matter was settled and those who did
not appear before the Ld. Arbitrator had to face the consequences of the
Award against them. He further submits that the assistance given by the
Amicus Curiae was only towards the calculation of damages etc. and that
none of the defences including the submission that the issue was fully
subscribed and was not kept open for 10 days, have been considered in the
Award. He further submits that the award is contradictory to the effect that in CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 15 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

paragraph 2 of the Award, it is noticed that the issue was fully subscribed but
in paragraph 11, the Ld. Arbitrator arrives at a finding that the issue is 90%
subscribed. Mr. Mehra, ld. counsel submits that the Respondents were not
given a fair chance to present their case. 33. The counsels for the Defendant have further submitted that the Ld.
Arbitrator did not consider that the Plaintiff was guilty of playing a fraud on
the investors, which is clear from a perusal of the letter of SEBI dated 6th
March, 1995, wherein SEBI clearly called upon the Plaintiff to refund the
monies to all such investors who opted to withdraw. It is submitted that the
fraud played by the Plaintiff was that the value of the share was artificially
increased and projected as Rs.505 per share, which was not the true value of
the share. The Plaintiff had sought to project the price of the share as being
on a cum-rights basis, which is with a number of benefits, whereas in fact it
was only on an ex-rights basis. The minute this fact was disclosed to investors,
almost 61% of the investors had withdrawn their intention to subscribe to the
rights issue. Reliance is placed on the affidavit in evidence filed by the
Petitioner/Claimant wherein it was concluded as under: This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582 34. It is submitted that the said paragraph is completely silent as to the role
played by the letter dated 6th March, 1995 issued by SEBI, which was a result
of the withdrawal of applications. It is submitted that even if the Plaintiff
disputes this letter, the press clippings filed by the Defendant clearly establish
that it was under SEBI's directions that the withdrawals took place. It is
further submitted that the stand of the Delhi Stock Exchange in its Reply to
the Plaintiff's Section 20 petition, wherein it is averred that various market
malpractices were indulged in by the Plaintiff was also not considered by the
ld. Arbitrator. 35. Ld. Counsels further emphasised that the obligations of the
underwriters under the agreement are governed or clearly restricted by the
terms and conditions contained in the agreement. Clause No. 10 of the
Underwriting Agreement, which was relied upon by the Ld. Arbitrator would
be triggered only "if the issue is under subscribed" and not otherwise. Once
the issue is fully subscribed, the obligation of the underwriters comes to an
end. This was the main dispute, which ought to have been decided by the ld.
Arbitrator. However, there is no such discussion in the impugned award.
Reliance is placed on Naini Gopal Lahiri v. State of UP (1965) 35 Comp Cas
30 (SC) and Satwant Kaur Sanndhu v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd. (2009)
8 SCC to canvass the proposition that underwriting is a form of insurance,
where utmost good-faith would be required to be considered on behalf of both
parties. On the basis of the aforesaid grounds, it is submitted by Ld. Counsel
for the Defendant that the impugned award is contrary to the terms of the
Underwriting Agreement and the law governing the liability of underwriters
and accordingly, deserves to be set aside. This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

Submissions of Plaintiff on Merits 36. On the other hand, Mr. Pawan Sachdeva submitted that the earliest
closing date as per the prospectus, which had been sent to all the Underwriters
and also approved by SEBI, was 18th February, 1995. Once the issue was
subscribed for more than 90%, it was mandatory for the issue to be closed and
therefore, the stand of the Underwriters, that the issue should have been kept
open for the full period of 10 days is incorrect. He further submitted that the
Lead Manager to the public issue had submitted two reports - first at the end
of 7 days, and again at the end of 45 days. It is his submission that the
underwriters' obligation would continue till the final report of the Lead
Manager is received. The first report dated 17th February, 1995 at the end of
7 days had stated that the issue is over-subscribed/subscribed more than 90%,
whereas the report dated 4th April, 1995 received at the end of 45 days clearly
stated that the issue was undersubscribed. 37. It is submitted that upon the Lead Manager reporting under-
subscription, the auditors computed the obligation of the underwriters and
made pro-rata distribution. The exact amount, which devolved on each of the
underwriters as their responsibility, was communicated on 24 th March, 1995
within 35 days of the closure of the issue. Thereafter, on 30 th March, 1995 the
Auditor Certificate was also sent. However, devolvement notices, which were
issued, were not replied to by the underwriters, which itself shows that the
underwriters were well aware of their obligations due to under-subscribed
issue. 38. It is submitted by the Plaintiff that as per the Rules and Regulations of
SEBI and the Model Underwriting Agreement prescribed by SEBI,
underwriting is mandatory for every public issue, since it is like an insurance CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 18 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

from under-subscription. Reliance is placed on Naini Gopal Lahiri v. State
of Uttar Pradesh [(1965) 35 Comp Cas 39 (SC)] to argue that unless and until
the underwriting contract is executed, public issue cannot be proceeded with. Reliance is also placed on Pioneer Co. v. Kaithal Cotton & General Mills
Ltd. [(1970) 40 Comp Cas 562 (P&H), to submit that an underwriting
agreement is not just a guarantee, but is itself an application for allotment of
shares, which are underwritten. 39. The second proposition canvassed by the Plaintiff is that as per SEBI's
Rules and Regulations governing the aspect of minimum subscription, once
90% of the issue is subscribed, the issue is to be closed. It is only if the
Company does not receive 90% of the amount within 60 days from the date
of closure of subscription list, that the company has to refund the entire
amount to the underwriters and the same would be without prejudice to the
claims of the company against the underwriters. In the present case, on 22 nd
April, 1995 the refund was made to all the underwriters without prejudice to
the company's rights to raise a dispute and to claim damages. Insofar as the
provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 are concerned, reliance is placed on Section 69(4) of the Act to argue that the said provision requires subscribers
to be fully safeguarded, by keeping all monies received from applications for
shares in a separate bank account. The said amount cannot be used by the
Company in any manner and can only be utilized for the purpose of refunding
the applicants' subscription amounts. In fact, if there is any delay in the said
refund, interest is also liable to be paid. 40. A third proposition, which is assailed is that allotment of shares is not
a direct step, immediately upon the subscription. There are three stages i.e.
creation of the shares, issue of the shares and allotment of shares. It is only CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 19 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

upon the final allotment being made that the underwriters' obligation is
discharged. It is submitted that the letter dated 6th March, 1995, which is not
admitted by the Plaintiff, wrongly uses the word 'allotment', whereas in fact
at that stage, the allotment was yet to take place. As per the judgment in Morgan Stanley v Kartick Das (1994) 2 CTJ 385 (SC) (CP), the Supreme
Court of India has clearly held that shares come into existence only when the
allotment takes place. 41. The fourth proposition, which is canvassed, is that the closure of the
issue being mandated upon 90% subscription, the underwriters' argument that
the issue ought to have been kept open for 10 days is completely contrary to
the rules. Reliance is placed on Bharat's Compendium of SEBI Capital
Issues & Listing, 3rd Edition by Dr. K.R. Chandratre to argue that it is only
if the issue is under-subscribed, that the subscription should be left open for
the entire period. As per the schedule, the earliest closing date was 18 th
February, 1995. Thus, closing of the issue after 90% subscription on 18 th
February, 1995 was as per prescribed and agreed schedule. 42. Mr. Sachdeva relied heavily upon a judgment of the Division Bench of
this Court in MS Shoes East Ltd. v. R. K. Singh and Co., RFA(OS ) 83/2008: 43. Mr. Sachdeva also relies upon the statement dated 22nd June, 1995 of
Mr. Hiromony Kundu, the Deputy General Manager of SBI Capital Markets
Ltd - which was the first Lead Manager. The said statement of Mr. Kundu
shows that the issue was subscribed for over 90%, and hence, the same was
closed on the earliest closing date. 44. On a query from the Court, Mr. Sachdeva relied upon various
guidelines of SEBI to argue that the period during which the subscription has
to be checked is 30 days i.e., if within a period of 30 days the issue is not
subscribed, it would devolve upon the underwriters, who have to discharge
their consequent obligations. Reliance is placed on the Model Underwriting
Agreement, prescribed by SEBI, especially on Clauses 10 to 14. It is his
submission that since at the end of the period of 30 days after the date of the
closure of the subscription, the issue remained undersubscribed, the
obligations of the underwriters were not discharged. Since the obligation of
the underwriters was not discharged, the Plaintiff is entitled to claim
compensation and damages in terms of the Clause 11(d) of the Model
Underwriting Agreement. Under clause 17 of the Underwriting Agreement,
the Underwriters had an option of termination, which they could have invoked
if the company had breached any clause of the Agreement. However, none of
the Underwriters invoked the said clause. 45. Mr. Sachdeva further submitted that the impugned award specifically
records in paragraphs 2 and 3, the facts leading up to the closure of the issue
and the responsibilities of the underwriters. According to him, the finding of
the ld. Arbitrator is that since the public issue was under-subscribed, the
underwriters had to make good the loss suffered by the claimant-Company.
Reliance is also placed upon paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Award, wherein the CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 21 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

Arbitrator concludes that within 35 days of intimation by the company, the
underwriters have to procure subscriptions and if they fail to do so, the
Company is free to take measures against the underwriters. 46. It is finally submitted that the reasonableness of the ld. Arbitrator's
reasoning cannot be challenged in a petition under Sections 30 and 33 of the
Arbitration Act, 1940. The ld. Arbitrator was within her competence to
construe the contract and decide the damages. Unless there is perversity or
legal misconduct, the impugned Award does not deserve to be set aside. The
definition of 'perverse' as held by the Supreme Court in Arulvelu and Ors. v.
State represented by the Public Prosecutor & Ors. MANU/SC/1709/2009
and Sumitomo Heavy Industries Limited v Oil and Natural Gas Commission
of India MANU/SC/0540/2010 is relied upon. Analysis and Discussion on Merits 47. The facts leading up to the public issue have already been captured in
the introductory paragraphs hereinabove. In 1995, when the subject public
issue was launched, Underwriters were governed by SEBI (Underwriters)
Regulations, 1993, under which they were registered. As per the said
Regulations, "underwriter" and "underwriting" are defined as
 "2.(f) 'underwriter' means a person who engages in the
 business of underwriting of an issue of securities of a
 body corporate; (fa) "underwriting" means an agreement with or
 without conditions to subscribe to the securities of a
 body corporate when the existing shareholders of such
 body corporate or the public do not subscribe to the
 securities offered to them; 48. As per the above Regulations all Underwriters have to be duly
registered under these Regulations, in order to conduct their businesses as CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 22 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

Underwriters. The SEBI, after taking into notice the relevant criteria under Regulation 6 grants the Certificate of Registration under Regulation 8 . Such
criteria include necessary infrastructure, office space, equipment, manpower,
past experience, no earlier disqualification, capital adequacy (Rs.20 lakhs),
reserves, etc. Every underwriting contract has to be a valid agreement. All
Underwriters have to abide by the Code of Conduct, as specified in Schedule
III of the Regulations. Under Regulation 14 , the Underwriting Agreement has
to specify the period for which the agreement shall be in force, the allocation
of duties and responsibilities between the Underwriter and the client, the
amount of underwriting obligations, the amount of commission or brokerage
payable and details of other arrangements. The said Regulation is relevant and
is set out below: [(ia) the allocation of duties and responsibilities
 between the underwriter and the client;] (ii) the amount of underwriting obligations; (iii) the period, within which the underwriter has to
 subscribe to the issue after being intimated by or on
 behalf of such body corporate; (iv) the amount of commission or brokerage payable to
 the underwriter; (v) details of arrangements, if any, made by the
 underwriter for fulfilling the underwriting obligations." 49. As per Regulation 15 , when called upon to subscribe for securities
pursuant to an agreement under Regulation 9A, the Underwriter has to CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 23 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

subscribe to such securities within a period of 45 days of the receipt of such
intimation. The said Regulation reads as under: regulation (1) of regulation 9A] shall subscribe to such
 securities within 45 days of the receipt of such
 intimation from such body corporate." 50. The Code of Conduct for Underwriters is prescribed in Schedule III,
some of the relevant Clauses of which are set out below: 51. In order to appreciate the objections raised against the award, it is
necessary to note some of the important clauses in the Underwriting CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 24 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

Agreement. In the present case, the Underwriting Agreement was entered into
between V. Jethalal Ramji with the Plaintiff on 10th January, 1995. Some of
the clauses of the Underwriting Agreement are as under: a) Applications which have been accepted
 excluding those withdrawn before allotment; and b) applications received from the underwriter or
 any of his sub-underwriters including those
 applications which bear the stamp of the
 underwriter or any of his-underwriters. 3. After making adjustments as provided in sub- clause (2) above, the underwriting obligation of the
 underwriter and other underwriters shall be subject
 to following further adjustments. a) The applications received from the public
 independently i.e. those applications not covered
 under sub-clause (2) above, shall be apportioned
 amongst all the underwriters, where underwriting
 obligations have not been fully satisfied after
 adjustments under sub-clause (2) above in
 proportion to their respective underwriting
 obligations and to that extent their respective
 underwriting obligation shall stand reduced. b) If, after the adjustments made under sub-clause
 (2) and (3) (a), above, it is found that the shares
 available for adjustments are in excess of the
 shares required to be subscribed in fulfilment of CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 26 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

 the underwriting obligations of one or more
 individual underwriters, then such excess amount
 required to meet the underwriting obligations of
 any underwriter shall be further apportioned
 amongst such other underwriters, whose
 underwriting obligations have not been fully
 discharged, in proportion to their respective
 underwriting obligations. 11. Procedure for effecting / discharge of
 underwriting obligations - The underwriting
 obligations as determined under clause 10 shall be
 discharged in the manner mentioned below: d) In the event of failure of the underwriters to make
 the application to subscribe to the shares as
 required under clause (C) above, the company
 shall be free to make arrangement(s) with one or
 more persons to subscribe to such shares without
 prejudice to the rights of the company to take such CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 27 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

 measures and proceedings as may be available to
 it against the underwriter including the right to
 claim damages for any loss suffered by the
 company by reason of failure on the part of the
 underwriter to subscribe to the shares as
 aforesaid. xxx xxx xxx 13. Underwriting commission 1. In consideration of the underwriter agreeing to
 underwrite the shares/debentures as mentioned in
 clause (1) above, the company shall pay to the
 underwriter a commission @ 1% on the amount
 underwritten by them and subscribed by the Public.
 In case, of devolvement the Company shall pay to the
 underwriter a commission at the rate of 2.5% on the
 issue price of the shares for the amount underwritten
 and devolving on them. 2. The underwriting commission shall be payable by
 the company within 15 days from the date of
 finalisation of allotment and proof of such payment
 within the specified time should be available with the
 company. The obligation to pay underwriting
 commission shall arise only upon the Underwriter
 fulfilling his underwriting obligation and duly
 subscribing to the shares, if any, devolved on him. 14. Obligation of the Company 1. The company shall immediately after the
 closure of the subscription list, take expeditious steps
 for processing the application and complete the
 allotment within the time limit prescribed under the Companies Act, 1956 and also comply with other
 listing requirements. 2. If the company fails to receive 90% of the issue
 amount including the amount received from the
 Underwriter's towards devolvements, within 60 days
 from the date of closure of subscription list, the
 company shall refund the amount paid by the CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 28 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

 underwriter in fulfillment of his underwriting
 obligations. The obligation to refund the moneys
 shall be without prejudice to the disputes if any in
 regards to the underwriting obligation of the
 underwriter. In such event, it will however, be
 obligatory for the company to pay the underwriter,
 underwriting commission payable in terms of clause
 13(1) and (2) thereof. xxx xxx xxx 16. Right of termination under special
 circumstances- Notwithstanding anything contained
 herein, the underwriters shall have the option, to be
 exercised by him, at any time prior to the opening of the
 issue as notified in the prospectus of terminating this
 agreement under any or all of the following
 circumstances - i) If any of the representations / statements made by
 the Company to the underwriter and/or in the
 application forms, negotiations, correspondences,
 the prospectus or in this letter are or are found to
 be incorrect. ii) a complete breakdown or dislocation of business
 in the major financial markets, affecting the cities
 of Calcutta, Bombay, Madras, or New Delhi. iii) declaration of war or occurrence of insurrection,
 civil commotion or any other serious or sustained
 financial political or industrial emergency or
 disturbance affecting the major financial markets
 of Calcutta, Bombay, Madras or New Delhi. xxx xxx xxx 20. Reference to arbitration - Any dispute arising
 out of this agreement between the underwriter and the
 company shall be referred to the Arbitration Committee
 constituted by the Regional Stock Exchange in which the
 shares are to be listed and the decision of the Arbitration
 Committee shall be final and binding on both the
 parties." This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582 52. As per the Underwriting Agreement, copies of the prospectus were
supplied to all Underwriters, along with the application forms which were to
be subscribed by the Underwriters, in the eventuality of the issue not being
fully subscribed. The Underwriters thus had complete knowledge of the
factual position relating to the Plaintiff as also the various obligations and
rights as set out in the prospectus. As per the Underwriting Agreement, the
public issue was to open within three months from the date of the Agreement.
The issue, unless fully subscribed, was to be kept open for a maximum period
of ten calendar days. It is only if the issue remained undersubscribed that the
underwriting obligation was to be triggered as per Clause 10 of the
Underwriting Agreement. However, under Clause 11 of the Agreement, the
manner in which the Underwriters would be discharged of their obligations
was clearly prescribed. As per Clause 11, the total number of shares which
were unsubscribed was to be communicated to the Underwriter within 30 days
of the closure of public issue subscription. On the basis of the unsubscribed
shares, the shares that were to be procured by the Underwriter were to be pro-
rata distributed among all the Underwriters. The manner in which the
computation of the Underwriters' obligation was to take place was to be
furnished by the auditors of the company, who had to issue notices to the
Underwriters. The said notice, which is to be issued within 30 days of closure,
is referred to as the `devolvement notice' which sets out the responsibility that
devolves upon each of the Underwriters. Upon receipt of such a notice, not
later than 30 days, the Underwriter has the obligation to subscribe to the shares
and submit the same along with the application money to the company. As
per Clause 11(d) of the Agreement, if the Underwriter does not make such an CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 30 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

application, the company would have the right to claim damages for any loss
suffered due to such failure. Furthermore, if 90% of the issue is not
subscribed, even after receiving the Underwriters' application money, then
the company is to refund the amount to the respective Underwriters as per
Clause 14(2) of the Agreement. If as per the Underwriter, any of the
representations or statements made by the company either in the application
forms, negotiation clause, prospectus agreement or any other documents are
found to be incorrect, the Underwriter has the right to terminate the agreement
itself. 53. On 17th February, 1995, the Registrar of the subject Public Issue
communicated to the Lead Manager that on the basis of figures
communicated, the issue has been subscribed for more than 90%.
Accordingly, the company closed the public issue on 18 th February, 1995,
which was previously declared as the `earliest closing date'. This date was
fully within the knowledge of the Underwriters, as the said date was contained
in the prospectus. 54. However, subsequently, for whatever reasons, SEBI directed the
company to give the option to each of the subscribers to withdraw their
applications. The reasons why SEBI issued such directions are not within the
scope of the present proceedings. Suffice to say that a large number of
subscribers withdrew their applications upon receiving notices from the
company, in compliance with SEBI's directions. Criminal investigations are
stated to have been launched against the promoters of the Plaintiff. However,
it is not disputed that the case which was registered against the promoter of
the Plaintiff-Company by CBI, was eventually closed. This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582 55. It is relevant to note that even though SEBI directed the Company to
give its investors the option to withdraw, it did not direct discharge of the
Underwriters' obligations in relation to the public issue. 56. Thus, upon the withdrawal of the applications by the subscribers,
devolvement notices were issued on 15th March, 1995 by the Plaintiff to the
Underwriters. In these notices, the Underwriters were informed that the issue
has been undersubscribed and the Underwriters were called upon to procure
the applications to subscribe to their shares of the FCDs and submit the
application along with the amounts in terms of the Underwriting Agreement.
The said devolvement notices were also issued to the Underwriters within the
30 days as prescribed i.e., on 15th March, 1995. 57. The factum of the devolvement notice having been issued is not
disputed by the Defendant. It is also not the case of the Defendant that it
terminated the agreement due to any incorrect information which was referred
to it as per the prospectus or other related documents. No document has been
placed on record to show that upon receiving the devolvement notice, the
Defendant refuted the claim of the Plaintiff. The only submission canvassed
on behalf of the Defendant is that since the issue was closed within four days
after being launched and it was more than 90% subscribed, the obligation of
the Underwriter was automatically discharged under Clause 2 of the
Underwriting Agreement. 58. In order to answer whether the obligation of the Defendant-Underwriter
stood discharged, the scheme of the Underwriting Agreement is relevant. It is
well-settled that an Underwriting Agreement is in the nature of an insurance
contract wherein the Underwriter performs the role of an entity providing
insurance to the public issue i.e., if the issue fails for any reason, the CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 32 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

Underwriter is bound to subscribe to the FCDs/shares. The nature of the
Underwriting Agreement is clearly set out in the aforementioned Regulations
which defines underwriting as extracted above. As per the said definition, if
the public does not subscribe to the securities offered to them, the Underwriter
has to subscribe to the same. In Naini Gopal Lahiri and Ors. v. State of Uttar
Pradesh [1965] 35 CompCas 30 (SC), the Supreme Court, while considering
the nature of an underwriting agreement observes: 59. As per Clause 2 of the Underwriting Agreement, the issue had to be
kept open for a maximum period of ten calendar days. However, the
Underwriters were well aware that the ten-day period is only the maximum
period and that the minimum period is as stated in the prospectus till the
earliest closing date which in this case was 18th February, 1995. It cannot,
therefore, be said that the Plaintiff was to blame for not keeping the public
issue open for the entire period of ten days. It was clearly the understanding
of all the parties concerned that the issue was already subscribed by the
earliest closing date as per the communication of the Lead Manager. 60. Even considering that the issue became under-subscribed later due to
various allegations and the issuance of the notices to the subscribers, pursuant
to the directions of SEBI, even then the under subscription of the issue took
place within the 30-day period as prescribed under Clause 11A of the CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 33 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

Underwriting Agreement. A reading of Clause 2 along with Clause 11 of the
Agreement, makes it clear that the underwriters' obligations would not stand
discharged until the 30-day period from the date of closure of subscription list
is communicated. 61. For ease of reference, the process of subscription to public issue and
until the issuance of the FCDs is illustrated as under: 62. The above flow chart makes it clear that it is only after the closure of
the subscription list that the company has to communicate to the Underwriters
within a period of 30 days, as to whether any liability has devolved upon the CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 34 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

Underwriters and if the obligations of the Underwriters are to be discharged
or not. The said letters have to be accompanied with the auditor's certificate
showing the computation. After receiving the said letters, the Underwriters
have to take the necessary steps to subscribe within 30 days. 63. Thus, as per the Underwriting Agreement, it is clear that the obligations
of the Underwriters are not discharged simply upon the issue being fully
subscribed in the first instance. Various steps have to be followed through to
determine as to whether the issue is fully subscribed or not. In this case,
though the impression at the initial stage when the public issue was closed
was that the issue was fully subscribed; when the subscribers were given the
option to withdraw, as per the directions of SEBI, a large number of them
withdrew their applications. Thus, the issue remained unsubscribed. 64. It is in order to cater to such kind of situations and for reducing the
various risks involved in a public issue, that Underwriting Agreements are
entered into. Underwriters who are in the business of underwriting are fully
aware of the various steps that are to be completed before the Underwriters
are finally discharged of their obligations. 65. In any Underwriting Agreement, either of the following has to happen
in order for the Underwriter's obligations to be discharged: This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582 66. Unless and until any of the above events occurs, the Underwriters'
obligations cannot be held as having been discharged. The stand of the
Defendant that the Underwriter's obligation would be discharged upon the
issue being initially closed on the earliest closing date i.e., 18th February, 1995
is contrary to the scheme of the Underwriting Agreement. The question
whether the issue remains undersubscribed or not is to be determined after the
closure of the subscription list and not before that. This is because a 30 days'
window has been provided for the subscribers to send their applications duly
filled in along with the application money, which is to be kept with the Lead
Manager. It is only once the application monies and the applications are
received that the subscription list is generated and finally closed. After the
subscription list is closed, if no communication is received by the Underwriter
within 30 days, then the obligation of the Underwriter would stand discharged
and not before that. Thus, the stand of the Defendant is contrary to the
Underwriting Agreement itself. 67. The next question is whether this has been finally considered by the ld.
Arbitrator or not. The ld. Arbitrator in the present case has passed awards in
respect of a large number of Respondents. The ld. Arbitrator in paragraphs 17
and 20-22 of the impugned award observed as under: 68. From a perusal of the paragraphs of the Award extracted above, it is
clear that though there is no detailed discussion of each of the clauses of the
Underwriting Agreement, broadly the rationale and the reasoning of the ld.
Arbitrator is that the Underwriters did not pay for all the FCDs that devolved
upon them. The ld. Arbitrator noticed that as per SEBI's instructions, the
Plaintiff had to refund the application monies received from the subscribers.
The ld. Arbitrator also noticed that in terms of the contract, the Plaintiff would
be entitled to claim damages for the loss suffered which is clearly provided
for in Clause 11(d) of the Agreement. The ld. Arbitrator further notes that no
provision for liquidated damages has been made in the Agreement. Thus, it
cannot be said that the ld. Arbitrator failed to decide the issue as to whether
the Underwriters' obligations were discharged or not. 69. Enormous emphasis has been laid on the fact that the ld. Arbitrator did
not discuss the letter dated 6th March, 1995 and the effect thereof. This letter
dated 6th March, 1995 is subject of vehement contest between the parties.
Firstly, it is the Plaintiff's case that this letter was never produced before the
ld. Arbitrator, though the Underwriters place enormous reliance on the same. This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

The said letter allegedly issued by SEBI to the Lead Manager has been filed
in these proceedings. The language of the said letter reads as under: This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582 70. It is relevant to notice that one of the issues framed by the ld. Arbitrator
vide order dated 6th December, 2008 was as under: 71. Thus, clearly the letter dated 6th March, 1995 was within the knowledge
of the ld. Arbitrator, even though it does not find a mention in the Award. The
purport of the 6th March, 1995 letter is that the Plaintiff was to write to
subscribers giving them the option to withdraw their subscription. The
subscribers were in fact given the option to withdraw, which led to the issue
becoming under-subscribed. The fact that the Plaintiff actually wrote to the
subscribers and gave them an option to withdraw is not disputed. The
directions given by SEBI in the letter dated 6th March 1995, are also clearly
reaffirmed by the Lead Manager in its letter 21st April, 1995 which is exhibit
number PW-1/60. 72. The said letter (Fax Message) dated 21st April 1995 reads as under: With reference to the captioned issue, we forward
 herewith for your information and necessary action,
 copy of letter No. PMD/PVK/95 dated April 21, 1995
 received from SEBI stating inter alia that as the CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 40 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

 Company has failed to receive 90% of the minimum
 subscription amount within 60 days of the closure of the
 issue, as mentioned in the prospectus, it has become
 incumbent upon the Company to refund the entire
 amount forthwith to all the applicants. Kindly ensure compliance of the instructions of SEBI
 contained in the aforesaid letter. Deputy General Manager" 73. This letter of the Lead Manager was on record of the ld. Arbitrator
which confirms two facts - a) That SEBI had informed the Lead Manager that the Plaintiff -Company
 had failed to receive 90% of the minimum subscription amount; b) That the entire amount was to be refunded forthwith to all the
 Applicants. 74. Post the closure of the public issue on the ground that it was more than
90% subscribed, the above situation arose because SEBI had directed the
Plaintiff to give an option to subscribers to withdraw if they so choose. Upon
the option being given by the Plaintiff, a large number of subscribers in fact
withdrew their subscriptions, which then led to the Lead Manager to issue the
above letter. The entire claim of the Plaintiff is based on the fact that since the
issue was not subscribed, the Underwriters are liable to pay damages. Thus,
denying the letter of SEBI dated 6th March 1995 would be a self-contradictory
stance of the Plaintiff. 75. The ld. Arbitrator, instead of referring to the letter dated 6th March,
1995, which was a disputed letter, has referred to the letter of the Lead CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 41 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

Manager dated 21st April, 1995 in arriving at her conclusion. The letter dated
21st April 1995 was a consequence of directions issued by SEBI vide letter
dated 6th March 1995. The purport and intent of both the letters i.e., the letter
of SEBI and letter of Lead Manager being identical, the question whether
SEBI's letter was considered by the ld. Arbitrator or not would become an
academic issue, as it was well within the knowledge of the ld. Arbitrator that
SEBI had issued directions which were complied with by the Plaintiff. 76. The Underwriters cannot be seen to argue that the correct letter was not
considered by the ld. Arbitrator as they did not make any submissions before
the ld. Arbitrator and it is also not clear whether the said letter was even filed
before the ld. Arbitrator or not. The ld. Arbitrator having considered the letter
dated 21st April, 1995 of the Lead Manager, this Court cannot conclude that
the ld. Arbitrator did not consider the correct letter in the overall context. 77. An argument has also been made by the Defendant that the
Underwriting Agreement was vitiated by fraud. In order to support this
submission, press clippings are relied upon to show that one of the promoters
of the Plaintiff was, in fact, arrested. However, an allegation of fraud cannot
be raised in a sketchy manner. Proper pleadings of fraud ought to exist which,
in effect, make out a case of a criminal offence. Recently, the Supreme Court
in Union of India & Anr. v. M/S K.C. Sharma & Co. & Ors [Civil Appeal
No. 9049-9053 of 2011, judgment dated August 14, 2020]. has held as under: 78. Thus, allegations of fraud would require the parties to specifically
plead and then lead evidence before the ld. Arbitrator, which has admittedly
not happened in the present case. Allegations of fraud also go to the root of
the matter on whether the dispute is arbitrable. However, it has been well-
settled by the Supreme Court in its judgment of Ayyasamy v. A. Paramasivam (2016) 10 SCC 386 that
 "the mere allegation of fraud simplicitor may not be a
 ground to nullify the effect of arbitration agreement
 between the parties. It is only in those cases where the
 Court, while dealing with Section 8 of the Act (1996
 Act), finds that there are very serious allegations of
 fraud which make a virtual case of criminal offence or
 where allegations of fraud are so complicated that it
 becomes absolutely essential that such complex issues
 can be decided only by civil court on the appreciation
 of the voluminous evidence that needs to be produced,
 the Court can sidetrack the agreement by dismissing
 application under Section 8 and proceed with the suit
 on merits.". 79. The allegations in the present case were not of such a nature which
involve or require a complex investigation. Moreover, the Plaintiff has not
been held guilty of any criminal offence. The Defendants have failed to make
out a case for non-arbitrability of the disputes. 80. Similar awards, as are under challenge in the present proceedings, have
been passed by the ld. Arbitrator in a large number of cases. Such awards have
also been satisfied or settled before this Court in various proceedings and no CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 43 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

allegation of fraud has been made in the arbitral proceedings or before the
Court. Therefore, the allegations of fraud raised by the Defendants are
untenable and do not constitute a valid objection under Sections 30 and 33 of
the Act. 81. It is also pertinent to note that as per the Underwriting Agreement, the
Defendant had the option of terminating the Agreement under Clause 14, if
any of the facts disclosed by the Company in the Prospectus or related
documents were found to be incorrect. However, despite receiving the
devolvement notice, termination was not resorted to. Moreover, the
Defendant did not even reply to the devolvement notice. The Defendant also
chose not to appear before the ld. Arbitrator after a certain stage and contest
the matter, despite being aware of the proceedings. 82. On the question of the scope of interference by courts in arbitral awards
passed under the Arbitration Act, 1940 , the Supreme Court has recently held
in Atlanta Limited Thr. Its Managing director v. Union of India represented
by Chief Engineer, Military Engineering Service [Civil Appeal
No.1533/2017 decided on 18th January, 2022 that the Court does not sit in
appeal over an Award passed by an Arbitrator, and the only grounds on which
it can be challenged are those that have been specified in Sections 30 and 33 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 namely, when there is an error on the face of the
Award, or when the learned Arbitrator has misconducted himself or the
proceedings. The said judgement has also reiterated the settled principle of
law that challenge cannot be raised against the Award only on the ground that
the Ld. Arbitrator has drawn his own conclusion or has failed to appreciate
the relevant facts. This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582 83. This Court cannot lose sight of the fact that disputes arose in 1995 i.e.,
almost 26 years back. The stand of the Defendants is, in effect, that the
impugned award should be set aside or that the matter ought to be remitted
back to the ld. Arbitrator. Considering the nature of the disputes, the reasoning
of the ld. Arbitrator cannot be faulted with and that there is no perversity in
the impugned award, this Court is of the opinion that the impugned award
deserves to be upheld to the extent that it holds that the Underwriters failed to
discharge their obligations and that liability under the Underwriting
Agreement devolved upon the Defendants. The only outstanding issue would
be the question of damages and the interest which has been awarded.
Computation of Damages and Interest in the Award 84. On the question of computation of the damages and interest awarded
by the Ld. Arbitrator, Mr. Sachdeva submitted that the said issue falls within
the domain of the Arbitrator and the Court cannot interfere in the same. The
judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Arosan Enterprises Ltd. v. Union
of India (UOI) & Ors. [AIR 1999 SC 3804] was relied upon. 85. It is submitted that the calculation of the total damages, which were
awarded, can be easily explained by the manner in which the ld. Arbitrator
has divided the total FCDs into 'subscribed' and 'under-subscribed' FCDs.
The ld. Arbitrator has, after considering the various amounts, merely awarded
Rs.15.85 crores, and in respect of the remaining amount of FCDs, the disputes
already stand settled with other Underwriters. 86. It was further submitted that losses were fully established by the
Plaintiff before the Ld. Arbitrator by filing detailed affidavits of evidence and
also by giving all the relevant documents in respect of the Hotel project and
Yarn project that the Plaintiff was to undertake had the issue succeeded. It is CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 45 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

submitted that though the claim of the Plaintiff was much higher, the Award
is only limited to the Hotel project and expenses related to publication of the
issue. Paragraphs 8 and 9 of the Award clearly set out the details of the various
exhibits and the expenses incurred by the Company for the purpose of the
public issue. It is submitted that it is evident from the impugned award that
the ld. Arbitrator has clearly applied her mind as to how damages ought to be
computed. 87. Insofar as the award of interest is concerned, Mr. Sachdeva relied upon
various judgments to argue that the ld. Arbitrator is entitled to award both
interest future as well as pendente lite in view of Section 29 of the Arbitration
Act, 1940. He finally urges that in view of the decision in Hindustan Prefab
Ltd. v. Union of India [(1987) 2 ArbiLR 123 (127)] the Court would have no
jurisdiction to interfere, even if interest was wrongly awarded. Mr. Sachdeva
also relied upon the Ex.PW-1/72 to argue that in view of the loans which were
taken by the Company where 18% interest was being charged, the Award of
the ld. Arbitrator is sustainable, inasmuch as the 18% interest was being paid
by the Company itself. 88. On the other hand, the ld. counsels for the Defendants submit that the
manner in which damages have been calculated by the Ld. Arbitrator, is
contrary to the settled legal position. It is submitted that the Ld. Arbitrator has
failed to consider the fact that the underwriters were not responsible for any
damages or compensation after they stood discharged under the agreement. It
is submitted that under Sections 73 and 74 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872,
actual loss had to be established by the claimant. It is further pointed out that
the Ld. Arbitrator makes a categorical finding in the impugned award that the
claimant-Company had not quantified the losses suffered. Accordingly, it is CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 46 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

submitted that since losses were not quantified and/or proved by the Plaintiff,
the Ld. Arbitrator could not have arrived at the figure with a conjectural
calculation for awarding damages in favour of the Company. Ld. counsel
urges that in the absence of any evidence, as required under Sections 73 & 74,
even the damages could not have been awarded. Reliance is placed on Kailash
Nath Associates v. Delhi Development Authority & Anr. (2015) 4 SCC 136
to argue that where it is possible to prove actual damages/losses such proof
cannot be dispensed with by the Ld. Arbitrator. It is further submitted that
under Section 29 of the 1940 Act, interest can be awarded only from the date
of decree and pre-suit interest cannot be awarded. It is thus put forth that the
Ld. Arbitrator has, clearly, erred in awarding not just interest pendente lite but
also prior to the filing of the claim petition i.e. 2nd May, 1995, which according
to ld. counsel is completely contrary to the Act. 89. On the issue of damages, a perusal of the impugned award shows that
the ld. Arbitrator has considered the claims of the Plaintiff under Sections 73 and 74 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. The Ld. Arbitrator rightly observed
that since the contract made no provision for liquidated damages against the
respondents/underwriters in the event of failure of the issue, the tribunal had
to assess the 'reasonable damages/compensation'. For the purpose of
computing damages, the following factors have been considered by the Ld.
Arbitrator: 81.20 crores (including bills for issuing prospectus @Rs. 1.6 crores; bills CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 47 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

 for conferences @Rs. 0.23 crores and bills for advertisements @Rs.6.58
 crores) 90. The fact that the Plaintiff was to launch its Hotel project and had
already got land allotted for the said purpose, was mentioned in the Prospectus
for the public issue itself, which was an admitted document among the parties.
The fact that amounts were forfeited by HUDCO and DDA was also not in
dispute. The Ld. Arbitrator also observed that the cost of the public issue was
available on record, as were the bills for issuing prospectus, bills for
conferences, and bills for advertisements approved by the Lead Managers.
Thus, contrary to what has been submitted by the Defendants, it cannot be
said that actual loss was not proved by the Plaintiff/Claimant, even if such
loss was not quantified. The Ld. Arbitrator notes in paragraph 26 of the
impugned award that the Claimant may not have brought on record various
other bills and expenses as its case was based on the assumption of liquidated
damages. Therefore, the Ld. Arbitrator herself proceeds to assess 'reasonable
damages', based on the factors enumerated above. 91. The total loss quantified by the Ld. Arbitrator in paragraph 26 of the
Award was proportionately distributed over the deficit procurement of shares
viz 1,06,42,000 which amount came to Rs. 76.30/- per defaulting share
approximately. However, the Ld. Arbitrator assessed reasonable damages at
Rs. 80/- per share on the ground that the Claimant's actual damages would
have been higher. Thus, the total loss was pro-rata apportioned between the
various Underwriters on the basis of the Underwriting Agreements and the
subscriptions declared thereunder. In the present case of V. Jethalal Ramji, as
per the Underwriting Agreement, the number of shares subscribed was 25,121
FCDs/ shares. Out of these, presumably V. Jethalal Ramji subscribed to CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 48 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

14,972 FCDs/shares. Thus, the final devolvement on the Defendant was
10,149 FCDs/shares. By fixing the amount of compensation as Rs.80 per
FCD/share, the Ld. Arbitrator calculated damages as Rs.8,11,920/- along with
the interest. 92. Upon conclusion of submissions, both parties have submitted that
disputes with a large number of the underwriters had been settled by the
Plaintiff, at much less the amount than what was claimed. The Plaintiff was
accordingly directed to place on record charts showing the amounts which
were recovered during settlements with various Underwriters. A perusal of
the same shows that during the course of arbitral proceedings, the Plaintiff
settled with 66 parties against whom claims were awarded. The Plaintiff
further settled with 26 Underwriters during the course of pendency of
petitions for pronouncement of judgment / objections. 93. Moreover, during the pendency of the present suit, a without prejudice
offer dated 8th February, 2017 was made by the Plaintiff to the Defendant in
the following terms: 94. A perusal of the various settlements already entered into and the
settlement offer made in the present case shows that the Plaintiff has settled
with various underwriters from arbitral proceedings for varying percentages.
In some cases, it is at 10% of the awarded amount and in other cases, it is 20%
to 25% of the awarded amount. Though, such settlements are with the consent
of parties, since the entire dispute has been adjudicated on the basis of
obligations of Underwriters and damages have been awarded on a pro-rata
basis which has been divided amongst the Underwriters, these out of court
settlements would also be relevant in order to determine as to what should be
the reasonable damages that ought to have been awarded qua the present
Defendants. The ld. Arbitrator has simply proceeded on the basis that qua
each share, the assessment of reasonable compensation would be Rs.80/-. 95. The law on compensation for breach of contract under Sections 73 and 74 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 has been laid down in a number of
judgments. In Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited v. Saw Pipes Ltd. (2003) 5 SCC 705, Hon'ble Supreme Court held in the context of liquidated
damages that: NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

 required to pay such compensation and that is what
 is provided in Section 73 of the Contract Act. (3) Section 74 is to be read along with Section 73 and,
 therefore, in every case of breach of contract, the
 person aggrieved by the breach is not required to
 prove actual loss or damage suffered by him before
 he can claim a decree. The court is competent to
 award reasonable compensation in case of breach
 even if no actual damage is proved to have been
 suffered in consequence of the breach of a contract.
 (4) In some contracts, it would be impossible for the
 court to assess the compensation arising from breach
 and if the compensation contemplated is not by way
 of penalty or unreasonable, the court can award the
 same if it is genuine pre-estimate by the parties as the
 measure of reasonable compensation." 96. For the purpose of assessing unliquidated damages under Section 73 of
the Act, it would be pertinent to refer to the locus classicus English judgment
in Hadley v. Baxendale [1854] EWHC J70, wherein the principle embodied
in Section 73 was enunciated as under: - 97. The Supreme Court reiterating the principle of remoteness of damages
in Kanchan Udyog Ltd. v. United Spirits Ltd. (2017) 8 SCC 237 has relied
on paragraph 1785 of Chitty on Contracts 26th edn (1989) Vol. 2, p. 1128-
1129 as extracted below: 98. Therefore, the settled legal position is that a party cannot be made
responsible for indirect or remote loss that may have been caused to the
claimant as a result of breach on the part of the Respondent/Defendant. In the
opinion of this Court, the Underwriters could not have been made responsible
for the entire loss suffered by the Plaintiff. The allegations and the history of
these litigations shows that there was an interference by SEBI after the public
issue for whatever reason, which led to withdrawal of the subscriptions by the
initial subscribers. The losses and confusion that prevailed due to the letter
issued by SEBI directing the Plaintiff to give investors the option to withdraw
from the public issue and the withdrawal of subscriptions thereafter cannot be
the sole responsibility of the Underwriters. The Plaintiff also appears to have
contributed by its own conduct in the loss suffered by it, as is evident from
the facts on record, though no criminal culpability may have been found by
the investigating authorities. Moreover, the Ld. Arbitrator ought to have
considered if the Plaintiff made any bona fide attempt to mitigate its losses. 99. Thus, based on the facts and circumstances that have emerged, the
question that would arise is what is the reasonable compensation or damages
to be awarded against the Underwriters. This Court is of the opinion that a
large number of Underwriters have already settled their disputes with the CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 52 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

Plaintiff, even during pendency of arbitral proceedings. After passing of the
Awards, several parties have settled. The Plaintiff has to clearly shoulder a
substantial part of the blame for the losses which it may have suffered. The
liability to pay compensation/damages qua the Underwriters ought to thus be
reduced to a reasonable amount i.e. 1/4th of the losses per share as computed
by the ld. Arbitrator i.e., Rs.20/- per FCD/share. Further, the award of 18%
interest p.a. by the Ld. Arbitrator is highly onerous and unsustainable,
especially considering the prevalent market conditions. The said rate is also
liable to be reduced to a reasonable percentage. 100. In a petition for pronouncement of judgment in terms of the Award
under Sections 14 and 16 of the Arbitration Act, 1940, and while considering
objections under Sections 30 and 33 , it is the settled legal position that the
Court has to apply its mind to arrive at the conclusion whether there is any
cause to modify the award under Section 15 of the Arbitration Act, 1940
( Union of India v. Manager , M/s Jain and Associates (2001) 3 SCC 277). It
has further been held by the Supreme Court in Naraindas Lilaram Adnani v.
Narsingdas Naraindas Adnani & Ors. 1995 Supp (1) SCC 312 that under Section 15(b) of the Arbitration Act, 1940, the Court, may, by order, modify
or correct an Award. 101. Accordingly, in the facts and circumstances of the present case, while
upholding the responsibility of the Underwriters to discharge their
underwriting obligations, this Court holds that only reasonable damages
which arose in the natural course of things or were in the direct contemplation
of the parties could have been awarded by the Ld. Arbitrator for the failure of
the Underwriters to discharge their obligations under the Agreement. Thus,
applying the principles of computation of damages as per settled law as also CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 53 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/001582

taking the account the settlements that have been entered into by the Plaintiff
with similarly placed underwriters in the interest of justice, the damages
awarded qua the Defendant are modified as under: 102. Insofar as award of interest is concerned, the Underwriters cannot be
held fully responsible for the delay in appointment of arbitrator or for the
period when the arbitral proceedings of the present proceedings have
remained pending. Accordingly, the amount awarded above as damages, shall
be paid along with interest @7% p.a. from the date of pronouncement of the
award i.e., 30th May, 2012 till today. If the entire awarded amount is paid
within a period of 8 weeks, no further interest would be liable to be paid.
However, in case of non-payment, simple interest on the entire awarded sum
[i.e., principal amount + the interest @ 7% per annum from the date of award
till today] would be liable to be paid @ 4.5% per annum. The costs of
proceedings as awarded by the ld. Arbitrator are upheld. 103. The suit and the objections under Sections 30 and 33 of the Arbitration
Act, 1940 are disposed of in the above terms. All pending applications are
also disposed of. 104. Judgment and decree as per the Award with the modification as set out
above is pronounced. 105. Decree sheet be drawn accordingly. PRATHIBA M. SINGH
 JUDGE
APRIL 27, 2022
Rahul/AAD CS(OS) 2159/2012 Page 54 of 54 This is a digitally signed Judgement.