On 26 june 2016 near, i requested tikona customer care to shift my connection to new places, but they did not shifted even after following up with them for 15 days. Then on 11 july 2016, i sent an email & requested to disconnect the connection. But they did not closed it. Then i got bill including next month which i had not used it all. (Attached image of email) Then i started getting calls regularly from tikona, every time i requested them to adjust the bill and send the updated bill to me, iso that i could pay it. But they didnot sent me the updated bill. Then next i got a mail regarding legal notice. Immediately i called to tikona senior customer care, and spoke him regarding my concern it seems he understood my concern, but nothing changed and also sent written concern over the mail to tikona dated 17th sep 2016 (Attached),. Even still i was getting calls from them. Matters came to the same point where it started. Today 17th oct 2016, i got call from some advocate that, tikona, has filled a legal case against me in session court in delhi, and told me it could be resolved if i pay the rs[protected] + 700 (Some penality), so i paid the amount and requested him to close the matter here and ensure connection should get closed. After that, to verify the status of connection of tikona, i called to tikona customer care, he said my connection is active, i asked him how my connection can be active since my connection is in suspended state from july 2016. Then i asked him to close the connection, he forwarded the call to senior, now a girl picked the phone, she tried to persuade me to continue the connection, but i refused and i said that now i have deposited all the pending amount, connection should now get closed. I am not sure /believe, they will close it or not, thats why i have written here complaint, to close the connection. She has given me request id :1-[protected]. The better resolution would be if they deduct 4 days usage of my internet from 27 to 30 june, refund the remaining which i have deposited today 17th oct 2016. Tikona user id:[protected]