1. Petitioners herein have sought for quashing of proceeding being GR

case no. 670 of 2019 pending before learned ACJM, Siliguri, arising out of 1 Siliguri Cyber Crime PS case No. 46 of 2019 under section 490 / 471 / 120B of

the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ) read with section 66 /66C of the information

Technology (I.T.) Act, 2000. Simultaneously petitioners also prayed for

quashing of other proceeding being GR case of 670 of 2019 presently

pending before learned ACJM, Bidhannagore, arising out of Bidhannagore

cyber crime PS case no. 75 of 2019 under sections

418 / 419 / 420 / 465 / 468 / 471 / 506 / 120B / 34 of the IPC read with section

66 / 66C of the I.T. Act 2000. Though the facts alleged in both the cases are

same but two Applications pertains to complaints lodge by two separate FIR

maker stated to be erstwhile directors of company. 2. Petitioners' case is that the petitioner no.1, 2 and 3 are the directors

of Greenzenbio Pvt. Ltd. (in short company). In the said company petitioner

no.1 is having 46.12% share-holding and petitioner no.2 is holding 43.65%

share. 3. Their further contention is that the petitioner no.2 had come up with

the idea of setting of the said company in Siliguri in 2008 and petitioner

no.2 introduced his brother as the initial share holder and

promoter/director of the said company. In 2007, husband of opposite party

no.2 (CRR 2243 of 2022) had approached the petitioner no.2, with the object

of entering into business relationship with the petitioner no.1 and his

brother. Accordingly opposite party no.2 herein in CRR 2243 of 2022 Laxmi

Tantia was appointed as director of the said company on 2nd May, 2007

along with one Mahesh Kumar Khaitan, thereby the group of said Tantia

held 66.66% shareholding in the said company and the Barman family had

33.33% of the paid up share-capital in the said company. At the relevant 2 point of time, the said company had three directors namely Monohar Kant

Barman i.e. brother of petitioner no.2, shri Mahesh Kumar Khaitan i.e.

uncle of Tantia's and the opposite party no.2 i.e. Laxmi Tantia. In fact from

2009 till 2015, the affairs of the said company was looked by shri Manohar

Kant Barman. Though the said opposite party no.2 was one of the directors

of the said company but the petitioner no.1 and 2 had to look after entire

day to day business of the said company. 4. Petitioners further case is that said Manohar Kant Barman had

tendered his resignation on 1st June, 2015 because of his personal issues

and the petitioner no.1 was appointed as a director in the Board of the

company on 29th September, 2015. After the resignation of shri Manohar

Kant Barman, the petitioner no.1 and 2 were looking after the business of

the said company and the opposite party no.2 Laxmi Tantia Became a

sleeping director of the said company without having much interest in the

affairs of the business of the said company. Thereafter on 16th August, 2016

Shri Mahesh Kumar Khaitan had tendered his resignation as a director of

the said company and in his place Shri Binod AjitSaria (complainant of CRR

161/2022) was appointed as the director of the said company on 29th

September, 2016. 5. Petitioners specific allegation is that the dispute arose between the

group of petitioner no.1 and 2 and the opposite party no.2 when without the

knowledge and consent of the other directors, a new director was appointed

by the opposite party no.2 in breach of contract Since 2016, the petitioner

no.2 was the sole nominee of the members of the Barman family in the

Board of the said company. All the directors of the said company had been 3 drawing salary during their tenure as the director of the said company.

According to the petitioner it was detected that during that period several

illegalities wrongful financial irregularities, defalcation of fund of the said

company at the instance of both the opposite party no.2 of the two revisional

applications. This was primarily because of the fact that these two persons

were signatories in the bank account of the said company and they jointly

siphoned of money from the bank account of the said company without

bringing it to the notice of the petitioner no. 1 and 2. The petitioner no.2 had

throughout raised his objection against such financial irregularities, causing

harm to the company. 6. The petitioners' specific case is that both the said opposite party no.2

in the aforesaid two Applications had siphoned off an amount of Rs.

1,78,60,228/- from the accounts of the said company between 1st April,

2017 and 31st October, 2019. The petitioners claimed when they objected

about such illegalities and irregularities committed by said Laxmi Tantia

(opposite party no. 2 of CRR 2243 of 2022) and Shri Binod Ajit saria

(opposite party no.2 of CRR 161 of 2022) they have decided to voluntarily

tender their resignation from the directorship of the company after having

accepted their guilt. In fact such resignation of both the above mentioned

persons were required for the purpose of protecting the existence of the said

company and the assets of the said company. Such resignation letters

offered by them are part of the company petition filed before the learned

National company Law Tribunal, Kolkata Bench. The resignation tendered

by the aforesaid two namely Laxmi Tantia and Binod Ajit saria was duly

accepted by the Board of Directors of the said company, on 28th August 4 2019. Accordingly after such resignation petitioner no.2 and 3 herein were

appointed as additional directors of the said company pursuant to the Board

meeting held on 1st August, 2019 and there appointments as directors were

affirmed in the Extra Ordinary General Meeting held on 26th August, 2019. 7. The Specific contention of the petitioner is that the aforesaid opposite

party no.2 in both Revisional Applications had voluntarily resigned as

directors of the said company and soon after tendering their resignation,

started involving in several illegal activities by creating disturbance both at

the office and plant of the said company. The petitioner no.2 accordingly

lodged a complaint on 20th September, 2019 to the Commissioner of Siliguri

Police Commissionerate. 8. The opposite party no.2 in both the cases along with their associates

have tried to capture the plant of the said company. Petitioners' further

contention is suppressing the aforesaid material facts, aforesaid two

opposite party no. 2 lodged two different complaints in two different police

stations and seeking quashment of both the proceedings, common

petitioners/accused persons have preferred the present two Applications. 9. After registration of FIR involved in the Revision Petition being CRR

No. 3392 of 2019, this High Court was pleased to direct that the

investigation of both the above-mentioned cases being Bidhannagore

Cybercrime police station case no. 75 of 2019 and Siliguri Cybercrime police

station case no. 46 of 2019 be transferred to the Cybercrime police station

CID West Bengal. 10. The allegation levelled in the First Information Report reveals that the

petitioners herein in collusion and conspiracy with other accused persons 5 manufactured a resignation email allegedly issued by the private opposite

party no.2 of both the cases through the alleged e-mail of the company being

" [email protected] " to " [email protected] " thereby

expressing intention to resign from the management of the company and the

e mail had been issued from the e mail ID being " [email protected] ",

which does not belong to the concerned FIR maker. It is further alleged in

the FIR that surprisingly the alleged Emails were sent at 10:43 a.m. on

August 24th, 2019, whereas the Board Meeting in which the alleged

resignation was accepted, had already commenced from 10.30 a.m. on

August 24th, 2019. Further FIR allegation is that based on those fake

documents, the accused persons/petitioners also uploaded Form DIR-12

along with the forged resignation letter in the website of ROC which were

purportedly certified by the Company Secretary. The total numbers of

directors in the company were three i.e. two from the Tantia group while one

of the Barman group. With the uploading of the fake resignation letters of

the two directors of the Tantia Group, there remained only one director and

a singly Director could not have conducted any valid meeting of the Board of

Directors of the company, as the corum of two directors could not be made.

It is further alleged in FIR that despite being the sole director, the petitioner

no.1 in a completely illegal manner appointed the petitioner no.2 and 3 as

the directors. It is further alleged that immediately thereafter the share

capital of the group of the private opposite party no. 2 in the company was

diluted by the petitioners by way of unilateral increase/issuance of the

share capital of the company, whereby the authorized share capital of the

company was illegally enhanced from Rs. 20,00,000,/- divided into equity 6 shares of Rs. 10/- each to Rs. 57,28,000/- divided into equity shares of Rs.

10/- each, thereby adding 3,72,800/- equity shares of Rs. 10/-, all of which

were allotted to the petitioners and other related parties, without giving the

option of purchase to the group to the private opposite party no.2. 11. Therefore in view of the creation of complaint's fake resignation letter

and uploading the same on the private portal, the private opposite party

no.2 in CRR No. 2243 of 2022 namely Laxmi Tantia lodged FIR with the

officer in charge Bidhannagore Cyber Crime police station and the private

opposite party of CRR 161 of 2022 namely Binod Ajit saria lodged the FIR

with the O.C. Siliguri cybercrime police station with the allegations as has

been stated above. 12. Being aggrieved by the said impugned proceedings, Mr. Sabyasachi

Banerjee learned senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners

argued that on plain reading of FIR, it would reveal that at its height the

dispute pertains to affairs of a company, which is a commercial dispute and

the ingredients of none of the penal sections mentioned in the FIR has been

made out. The O.P no.2 had already preferred a company petition before the

National Company Law Tribunal, Kolkata Bench with same allegation of

obtaining their resignation by practicing fraud. The opposite party/FIR

maker has also preferred an appeal before the National Company Law

Appellate Tribunal and both NCLT and NCLAT had only passed orders with

regard to maintain status quo over the bank accounts of the company

during the course of hearing of the application and the Tribunal has not

prevented the running of the said company and the petitioner no.2 was 7 allowed to carry on the business of the said company and operate a bank

account for the same purpose. 13. He further submits, after completion of investigation the investigating

authority has submitted charge sheet in the instant case. The cyber forensic

report dated 25.06.2021 reveals that the email of the petitioners no.2 was

used by the Opposite party no.2, but while accessing the email of the said

company, the opposite party no.2 was at their residence and as such the

respective FIR maker had raised absolute frivolous allegations against the

petitioners and the police have also acted on such baseless and frivolous

allegation to harass the petitioners without any cogent reason. The

petitioners no.2 while allowing access to the FIR maker to use the email ID

of the said company, then the FIR maker was acting as a director.

Accordingly the petitioner no.2 cannot have any knowledge about the

contents of the email and he has only given access. 14. Mr. Banerjee strenuously argued that the entire allegation is a

product of after-thought, since the respective opposite party no.2 had

wilfully offered their resignations and having accepted the same by the

Board of Directors, the opposite party no. 2 cannot accuse the petitioners of

any wrong committed against the complainant. The conduct of the

complainants shows that their intention is to misuse the process of the

criminal law to harass and humiliate the petitioners, so that they can extort

from the petitioners and the said company. His further contention is that

since the dispute is a commercial dispute which has already been referred

to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, the self same issue cannot

be the subject matter of criminal court's jurisdiction to adjudicate, in as 8 much as no ingredient of criminality is involved. In fact entire allegations

made in the instant complaint are within the domain of the Companies Act 2013, which is a special statute enacted for the affairs of the companies and

as such there is an efficacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved

party and therefore the instant criminal proceeding has no leg to stand. 15. His further contention is in the absence of any allegation of deception

or representation, exercised on the complainant by the petitioners, resulting

in any wrongful loss to the complainant, the ingredients of the offence under sections 418 / 419 / 420 of the IPC are not made out. The allegation of

deception since inception of transaction is also absent in view of the fact

that admittedly the petitioner no.1 was a director of the said company from

the very inception and the petitioner no. 2 and 3 were subsequently

inducted as directors of the company whereas the complainant is the

erstwhile director of the said company. Therefore, the question of possessing

dishonest intention from inception of the transaction does not arise. The

basic ingredients to constitute offence of forgery under sections

465 / 468 / 471 of IPC is also absent in as much as there is no materials to

show that the signature of the FIR maker was forged in any document

including electronic document on record. The investigating authority during

investigation did not consider certain relevant documents, which were

brought to their notice and which includes certain screenshots taken from

the device and also the existence of another device and thereby they have

arrived at an erroneous understanding and thereby have filed the erroneous

charge sheet 9 16. In this context he also emphasized that the email

" [email protected] ", was accessed and used by all directors and two

staff of the company at Siliguri namely Binod Ajit saria, Laxmi Tantia,

Ramakant Barman, Sandip Basak being the manager and Lilawati Chand

being the accountant of the company. On the date of resignation both Laxmi

and Binod were reportedly at Siliguri office of Greenzen, while the petitioners

were in Kolkata. The Private opposite party no.2 accessed the email account

of the company, on being given access from the Samsung device as the

Samsung device was the connected device with the company Email ID. The

email ID " [email protected] ", was already configured in the

Samsung device of petitioner no.2, therefore, there is no question of sending

email from Samsung device by allowing access. Access is always allowed for

another/alternative device. The other device which was allowed access had a

separate IP address and the said device was never recovered by the police as

this device was within the control of FIR maker Vinod and Laxmi. The IP

address of the internet connection to that device was different from

Samsung mobile Vodafone IP address of the petitioner no.2. The petitioner

no. 2 herein has not only access to the official email of the company but all

the other directors have access to the same. On the date of incident access

was sought for from the petitioner no.2 and he permitted access to the

concerned complainants to avail the email. However, while granting access

neither petitioner no. 2 had asked the reasons nor the opposite party no.2

had offered any explanation. 17. Mr. Banerjee in this context tried to take a point that a security alert

was raised for the link google account being the personal e mail account of 10 the petitioner no.2 [email protected] . Petitioner no. 2 received said

google alert in his said e mail address wherein intimation was given for

access made in " [email protected] ", from a window device. In fact it

is shocking that while access was granted to the Samsung device of

petitioner no.2 to enter " [email protected] ", at 11.42 a.m., much

prior to that at 10:42 a.m., password was changed for the linked account

being " [email protected] ". Since the petitioner no. 2 has his

personal google account, linked with the company's google account,

therefore had received a separate intimation in his personal email account.

His specific case is when such resignation was being submitted by the

complainant during that span of time i.e. from 10.45 a.m. to 11.45 a.m., all

other devices including that of the petitioner no.2 were logged out

automatically from the company's e mail account, since the password was

changed. 18. His further grievance is during the course of investigate the

investigating officer has seized the mobile phone of the petitioner no.2

assuming that such mail was sent from the personal device of the petitioner

no.2. However IO has completely failed to fathom that mail was sent from a

window device likely to be a desktop or a laptop as the Samsung device of

the petitioner no.2 was already logged out of the company e mail Id at the

time when resignation e mail was sent. During investigation the IO failed to

seize the window device from where the email was sent and such material

fact was brought to the notice of the investigating officer, who ignored the

same and therefore submission of the charge sheet in the instant case is a

result of biased and mechanical investigation conducted by the IO. Therefore 11 the instant case is devoid of any criminality and initiated with malafide

motive and if allowed to be continued will be mere abuse of the process of

the court. 19. Mr. Sandipan Ganguly, learned senior counsel, appearing for opposite

party no.2 in both the cases submits that the materials collected during

investigation and as stated in the charge sheet discloses clear involvement of

the petitioners and others in commission of the alleged offences. Cumulative

appreciation of the facts demonstrated in the FIR, materials collected during

investigation, specially the seized contemporaneous materials and

independent opinion of the forensic expert along with the motive of the

petitioners to commit the offence, leaves no room of doubt as to the

involvement of the petitioners in commission of the offences complained.

Accordingly after thorough investigation police has submitted charge sheet

which discloses that the accused persons entered into an evil design and

acted hand in glove together for illegally removing the private opposite party

no.2 in each case from the post of directorship as well as to reduce their

respective shareholding of Tantia Group in the company and thereby

capturing the entire company. In the process of executing such evil design

the accused /petitioner no.2 sent fake resignation letter of the FIR makers

from the directorship of the company from the email account of the

company to the personal mail address of [email protected] by

using his cell phone. Therefore, the documents itself speaks about its false

execution and contents both, which brings the same within the scope of

false documents as defined under section 464 of the IPC. The forged

documents have been used for relinquishing the status/position of the 12 private opposite party as well as their right in the company and as such

comes within the definition of "valuable security" as defined u/s 30 of IPC. 20. Mr. Ganguly alleged that uploading Form DIR-12, thereby intimating

the resignation of private opposite party along with such fake and fabricated

resignation letter had been prepared and had been validated by the accused

/petitioner no.1 under her digital signature and subsequently the same was

uploaded by the company secretary to the website of ROC. The accused

persons in the entire process impersonated the private opposite parties for

perpetrating the fraud complained of and falsely represented that private

opposite party no.2 issued letter for their resignation from the company. 21. Mr. Ganguly further argued that the ill motive of the accused

persons/petitioners is easily fathomable from their subsequent conduct i.e.

fraudulent incorporation /introduction of the petitioner no.2 and 3 in the

company as directors for taking the entire control of the business and the

management of the company. Cumulative appreciation from the facts

demonstrated in the FIR as well as materials collected during investigation

discloses prima facie commission of the cognizable offences, alleged in the

FIR. He further submits that the defence of an accused cannot be

considered in a petition under section 482 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure. Moreover appreciation of veracity of the prosecution case qua the

defence version and/or defence case, which is yet to be proved in

accordance with law is impermissible. 22. He also submits that the contention of the petitioners is largely based

on alleged malafide of private opposite parties, which is not to be considered

at this stage. Since both the Revisonal Application are largely based on 13 private untested documents annexed to the respective Revisional

Applications, there is hardly any scope of consideration of such documents,

when the fate of the application of the quashing has to be determined only

on the basis of the FIR, charge sheet and materials collected during

investigation. 23. In reply to the petitioners allegation that the dispute between the

parties at best can be categorized as civil dispute and opposite parties opted

for civil proceeding which is pending and as such criminal proceeding does

not lie, Mr. Ganguly on behalf of the opposite party submits that mere

pendency of the proceeding before NCLT Kolkata Bench pertaining to

identical issue does not bar continuation of the subject proceeding towards

its logical conclusion. Once from the materials on the record it is prima facie

established that accused persons committed forgery and used forged

documents to remove the private opposite party no. 2 from the directorship

of the company, the pendency of the proceeding before Tribunal cannot oust

the criminality involved therein nor the penal consequences arising from

such action. Infact a bundle of facts may give rise to both civil cause of

action as well as commission of offence and therefore both civil proceeding

and criminal proceeding can run parallelly and there is no conflict in this

proposition of law. 24. He strenuously argued that the manner in which, the petitioners by

impersonating the private opposite parties and by creating forged

resignation documents removed them from the directorship of the company

and subsequently reduced their shareholding in the company for causing

wrongful loss to opposite parties and corresponding wrongful gain to 14 themselves as well as for capturing the ownership of the company,

jeopardising the right and interest of the property of the private opposite

parties herein it cannot be generalized as a principle that pendency of civil

proceeding originating from identical issue always eclipses the scope of

criminal proceeding. Therefore, the facts involved in the subject FIR as well

as materials collected during investigation does not satisfy the tests

prescribed by the Hon'ble Apex Court, as well as by this Hon'ble Court in

several authorities including State of Haryana Vs. Bhajanlal. Reported in

1992 supp (1) SCC 335 and as such this is not a fit case where the

proceeding can be quashed by the court invoking its jurisdiction under section 482 of the Cr.P.C. 25. Having heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of both the parties

it appears that the FIR case interalia is based on an allegation that the

petitioners herein/accused persons manufactured a resignation email

allegedly issued by the private opposite party through alleged email of the

company thereby expressing intention to resign from the management of the

company and the emails had been issued from the email ID which does not

belong to the private opposite party. Their further case is that, based on

those fake documents, the accused persons also uploaded Form DIR 12

along with forged resignation letter, in the website of the ROC, which were

purportedly certified by the company secretary. Accordingly in view of the

creation of fake resignation letters in the name of the complainant and

uploading the same on the public portal, the petitioners herein committed

cognizable offences. 15 26. On the contrary petitioners accused/persons who have come before

this court for quashing the proceeding specifically alleged that the

complainant and his /her associates had issued several fictitious bills upon

the said company from April, 2017 for purported payment being made to

several persons whose existence were never brought to the notice of

petitioner no.1 and thereby they had allegedly siphoned off huge amount of

money from the accounts of the said company during the period of 1st April,

2017 and 31st October, 2019. Their further case is when petitioner no.1 had

come to learn of such gross illegalities and irregularities committed by the

complainants, he raised strong objection and as such the

complainants/opposite parties herein decided to voluntarily tender there

resignation from the directorship of the company after having accepted there

guilt and such resignation was duly accepted by the Board and in their

place petitioner no. 2 and 3 were appointed as additional directors. 27. It further appears from record that investigation has already been

culminated into a charge sheet, submitted against five accused persons

including the present petitioner. It further appears that police had recorded

in the charge sheet:- 28. In the charge sheet police have also cited the name of 23 witnesses

whom prosecution wishes to examine during trial to establish the case of the

prosecution which are as follows:- (vi) Form DIR 12 had been prepared along with fake and fabricated

 resignation, which had been validated by petitioner no.1 under

 her digital signature and the same was uploaded to the website

 of ROC (vii) The petitioner /accused persons had also diluted the

 shareholding of the group of the private opposite parties in the

 company by way of unilateral increase/issuance of the share

 capital of the company to cause wrongful loss to opposite 18 parties and wrongful gain to the petitioners. Their modus

 operandi is reflected by their subsequent conduct of

 introduction of petitioner no. 2 and 3 in the company as

 directors for taking the entire control of the business and the

 management of the company. 29. Now whether the opposite party no. 2 voluntarily resigned or not is a

serious factual dispute. The correctness of the defence case which states

that being guilty of misappropriating huge amount of money, they were

compelled to resign from the post of directorship is also a serious factual

dispute. The correctness of such defence of the petitioners is to be gone into

only after appreciating the evidence during the trial. Merely by referring to

statements made herein and the defence document supplied before this

court during hearing and which are not part of the case diary, can hardly be

taken into consideration for the purpose of quashing the proceeding. 30. Mr. Banerjee lerned Counsel for the petitioners heavily relied upon

Rukmini Narvekar Vs.Vijay Sataredkar and Ors. reported in (2008) 14

SCC 1 to demonstrate that though ordinarily defence materials cannot be

looked into by the court while framing of the charge but there may be some

cases where some defence material can be looked into by Court and

therefore it cannot be said as an absolute proposition that under no

circumstance the court can look into the materials produced by the defence

at the time of hearing application under section 482 Cr.P.C. Having

thoughtful consideration made on this subject, I am constrained to say that

in the said judgment it has also made clear that the defence materials can

be looked into by the court in very rare cases i.e. where the defence 19 produced some materials which convincingly demonstrate that the whole

prosecution case is totally absurd or totally concocted. In the instant case

from the statements made in the FIR and the materials collected during

investigation, there is hardly any scope to say that the prosecution case is

totally absurd or totally concocted. 31. In Nitya DharmaNanda Vs. Gopal Sheelum Reddy reported in

(2018) 2 SCC 93, the court held that at the stage of framing of charge the

accused cannot ordinarily invoke section 91 of Cr.P.C, however, the court

being under the obligation to impart justice and to uphold the law can

exercise its power under section 91 , if the interest of justice in a given case

so requires but for that also the court is required to be satisfied that the

materials available with the investigator, not made part of the charge sheet,

has crucial bearing on the issue of framing of charge. In the present two

Applications, the parties have come up for quashing of the impugned

proceeding after filing of the charge sheet and it is too early to say whether

the trial court would think it fit to invoke it's jurisdiction under section 91 considering such documents as crucial for consideration of charge at the

appropriate stage. 32. On the other hand there appears to be positive assertion that in order

to illegally remove the complainant from the post of directorship as well as

to reduce their respective shareholding, with an evil motive, accused person

had sent fake resignation letter which has been impersonated as if the

complainant sent the same from the email ID of the company. Now whether

or not the complainant had voluntarily sent their resignation is a question of

utmost importance in answering a charge of the nature indicated in the 20 complaint. Merely because a commercial dispute may have also involved in

the present context, it cannot be said that the ingredients of none of the

penal sections mentioned in the FIR has not been made out in the instant

case. For example section 416 of IPC which deals with cheating by

personation stated in illustration B as follows:- 33. Accordingly it may be that the facts narrated in the present complaint

would also reveal a dispute among the directors of the company for which

the parties had also approached before the Company Law Tribunal but that

can hardly be a reason for holding that the offence of cheating by

personation or offence of forging document, would elude from such a

company dispute. In fact many a times offences under the Indian Penal

Code could have been committed in the course of company affairs. 34. It is trite law that in exercising courts power under section 482 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure, this High Court is not supposed to evaluate the

veracity of allegation. The allegations levelled in the FIR as well as contents

of the charge sheet, if taken into consideration it constitutes prima facie

cognizable offence at this stage. Detailed examination of materials supplied

by the defence, which are not part of the case diary cannot be undertaken

nor its probative value can be considered at this stage. In fact the petitioners

demonstrated their prayer for quashing solely based on the documents and

contentions which are not part of the investigation report and on the 21 contrary it cannot be said that the materials disclosed in the charge sheet

and the accompanying documents do not satisfy the ingredients of a

cognizable offence. 35. Mr. Banerjee has made strenuous argument that the allegations in the

FIR are based on malafide of the complainant and has resulted due to

business rivalry, and that the issue is subject matter of consideration before

of company Tribunal. The issue of malafide even if exists is of secondary

consideration, unless the same is explicit from the face of the record and

furthermore the issue of malafide, if any, is again an issue of fact which

requires adjudication by adducing evidence. Moreover mere pendency of the

proceeding before National Company Law Tribunal Kolkata pertaining to

identical issue does not circumvent continuation of the subject proceeding

towards its logical conclusion. This is also because the object and purport of

the proceeding pending before Tribunal and the ingredients of criminal

proceeding may have originated from similar factual matrix but they are

completely different and infact the reliefs prayed for in the said two

proceedings are also not similar and as such both the proceedings are

maintainable. The object of enquiry in the proceeding pending before

Tribunal is restricted to the legality of the procedure of removal of erstwhile

directors and introduction of new directors and has got nothing to do with

the allegation of cheating by impersonation or manufacturing of document

for the purpose of cheating. It is also well settled principle of law that merely

because dispute has a civil outfit and/or has occurred during a company

affairs, would not automatically dilute the criminality of action involved in it

and cannot be ground for quashing of a legitimate criminal proceeding. 22 36. The crux of the instant criminal proceeding is based on the allegation

that the petitioners by impersonating the private opposite parties and by

creating forged resignation documents have removed them from the

directorship of the company and subsequently reduced their shareholding in

the company for causing loss to opposite parties and corresponding

wrongful gain to themselves, which cannot be the subject matter of

consideration for a Tribunal. 37. It is also to be mentioned that whether all the ingredients of

cognizable offence have been precisely spelled out in the complaint and in

the charge sheet or not are not required to be adjudicated at this stage.

Since factual foundation for the offence has been laid, simply because

dispute regarding company affairs regarding appointment and termination

of directorship is also involved in the present case, it cannot be said that the

criminal proceeding is not maintainable. 38. In State of M.P. Vs. Awadh Kishore Gupta and others . reported in

(2004) 1 SCC 691 the Apex Court has made it clear that what is important

to bear in mind in such cases is the distinction between a case where there

is no legal evidence or where there is evidence which is clearly inconsistent

with the accusations made and a case where there is legal evidence which

on appreciation may or may not support the accusation. It is also made

clear therein that while exercising jurisdiction under section 482 of the

Code, the High Court would not ordinarily embark upon an enquiry,

whether the evidence in question is reliable or not or whether on a

reasonable appreciation of it accusation would not be sustained because

that is the function of the trial judge. 23 39. Infact in the instant case there is nothing to say that there is no legal

evidence in the materials collected during investigation or that the materials

available at the end of investigation are inconsistent with the accusation.

Thus, without going to the question as to whether the instant criminal

proceeding would be ended in conviction or acquittal, the allegations if

considered in the light of the statements and documents availed during

investigation and taken to be true, it appears that the ingredients of the

offence or offences are disclosed and there is no material to explicit that the

complaint is malafide frivolous or vexious. 40. The very parameters which are required to be applied while quashing

the FIR, the Supreme Court in State of Haryana Vs. Bhajanlal reported in

1992 (Supp) 1 SCC 335 had identified the following cases in which the

proceeding can be quashed. Relevant paragraph may be quoted in this

context:- 41. Having considered the written complaint, result of investigation and

connected materials taking them as their face value and as correct in their

entirety and judging the same with the parameters of law laid down in

Bhajanlal's case (Supra) as above, I am unable to persuade myself to hold

that the materials placed before me does not disclose any cognizable offence

or that continuance of the instant criminal proceeding against the

petitioners herein will be an abuse of the process of the court. 42. For the aforesaid reasons the CRR 2243 of 2022 and CRR 161 of

2022 along with connected applications are hereby dismissed. It would be

open for the court to proceed from the stage at which the proceedings were

stopped and to decide the same in accordance with law, uninfluenced by

any of the findings and observation made by this court. It is also made clear

that the petitioners will have full liberty to agitate all his points referred

herein before the trial court at the time of charge hearing or at any

appropriate subsequent stage. Urgent Xerox certified photocopies of this Judgment, if applied for, be given

to the parties upon compliance of the requisite formalities. 25 (DR. AJOY KUMAR MUKHERJEE, J.) 26