Heard learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Arimardan Yadav, learned A.G.A. for the State and perused the material on record. The present bail application has been filed on behalf of applicant, Farrukh, under Section 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 121 of 2023 for offence punishable under Sections 406 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 of the I.P.C. and Section 66(D) of Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008 registered at Police Station- Railway Road, District- Meerut, during pendency of the trial. The prosecution case as is borne out from the FIR dated 19.11.2023 is that the informant received a call on his number from one Shalini Verma regarding his Life Insurance of Max company and he was told that his agent is claiming profit on his policy. After this call, the informant was directed to deposit certain amounts in different bank accounts in order to prevent his policy profit. The informant by depositing small amounts, deposited total of Rs. 42,87,525/- and received fake receipt of the aforesaid transactions, in order to get his money back. The informant was assured to get his money back on 30.10.2023 at 03:00 noon, but when he tried to contact the callers, the phone numbers were switched off. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is not named in the FIR. The offence is triable by magistrate. The applicant has been falsely implicated. The applicant is languishing in jail since 09.11.2024. He has no previous criminal antecedents. It is further submitted that there is no possibility of the applicant of fleeing away after being released from jail or tampering with the witnesses. In case the applicant is enlarged on bail, he shall not misuse the liberty of bail. Per contra, learned A.G.A. has supported the order passed by the Sessions Court and vehemently opposed the prayer for grant of bail to the applicant and submits that the allegations involved are very serious in nature. He, however, submits that in case the applicant is released on bail, he will again indulge in similar activities and will misuse the liberty of bail. It is a settled law that while granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the nature of accusation, the nature of the evidence in support thereof, the severity of the punishment which conviction will entail, the character of the accused, the circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, his role and involvement in the offence, his involvement in other cases and reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with. This Court finds that in India, the rapid advancement of technology and the widespread adoption of digital infrastructure have led to a significant rise in cyber-crimes including phishing scams, ransomware attacks, cyber-stalking and data breaches. Initiatives like Digital India have accelerated the country's' digital transformation, but they have also exposed vulnerabilities that cyber-criminals exploit. Cyber-crime has been affecting the people across the nation, irrespective of religion, region, education or class. Newspapers, Magazines, You Tube Channels and Social Media are brimming with ordeals of an uncountable number of innocent victim of the cyber-crime, who are defrauded of their hard earned money. Such cyber-crimes are rampant in our society, and must be curbed. Cyber-crime in our country is like a silent virus stealthy, disruptive, and costing society more than just money, but trust, security and progress. In view of the above, the Court is not inclined to release the applicant on bail. The bail application is, accordingly, rejected. Order Date :- 23.1.2025
 
Anjali