Reserved on : 04th July, 2013. Pronounced on : 06th August, 2013. Judgment (Per Dharmadhikari, J): The complaint alleges that one Prataprao Govindrao Pawar is 
 Chairman of M/s Sakal Papers Private Limited. This Company is 
 
 incorporated and registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1956 . It is 
 engaged in the business of printing and publishing news papers in the 
 States of Maharashtra and Goa. The Company has also Website, therefore, 
 

 publications have wide circulation throughout India and abroad. One 
 

 Abhijeet Prataprao Pawar is Director on the Board of Directors of the said 
 Company. One Leelatai Parulekar is also a Director and she is daughter of 
 the founder of the said Company, namely, late Dr.Nanasaheb Parulekar. 5 It is alleged that there was function organized on 20.09.2011 
 to celebrate 114th Birth Anniversary of Dr.Nanasaheb Parulekar. That 

 programme was organized at Balgandharva Rangmandir, Pune at 06:00 
 PM in the evening. The function was attended by high dignitaries and 
 Mr.Prataprao Pawar was also personally present. When that programme 
 was going on, a person i.e. the Petitioner, intending to obstruct the same 
 and to create chaos and confusion, entered the hall although he was not 
 an invitee. He was distributing some pamphlets. He had entered the hall ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *3* wp.314.12.sxw

 after pushing several persons. The pamphlets contain the defamatory 
 material against the said Prataprao Pawar. The Petitioner was also seen 

 
 speaking in defamatory language to those present in the audience. One 

 
 such pamphlet was given to the employee of the said Company, namely, 
 Dhananjay Divakar. The said Dhananjay Divakar also saw the Petitioner in 
 the hall and at that time, the Complainant Mr.Mahendra Pisal, General 

 
 Manager of the Company, was shown this pamphlet. On reading it, he 
 found that it contains defamatory statements and also refers to websites, 
 namely, www.savelila.com and www.jeevraksha.org. The Petitioner was 

 
 calling upon the people in the audience to view these websites. On accessing those websites, the Complainant noticed that 
 
 they contained several defamatory statements and material against 
 Prataprao Pawar and whole purpose was to defame him. Thus, these are 
 the statements made by the Petitioner and some of his associates, 
 

 although these persons have no connection with the said Company or the 
 

 said Leelatai Parulekar or her social work. The statements were made to 
 malign and defame Prataprao Pawar. For all these reasons, it was alleged 
 that they have committed the offences punishable under the 

 aforementioned provisions. 7 In this Writ Petition, the Petitioner has alleged that he is a 

 spirited individual working for the betterment of animals and is also the 
 founder of the Pune Unit of People for Animals. He is also an Animal 
 Welfare Officer (Hon) with the Animal Welfare Board of India (for short 
 "AWBI") under the Ministry of Environment and Forests. He has also been 
 appointed as an Animal Welfare Officer (Hon) by the Bombay High Court 
 Committee for monitoring of Animal Welfare Laws in the State of ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *4* wp.314.12.sxw

 Maharashtra. He also runs a helpline for animals that rescues around 
 1200 animals a year. 8 It is alleged that the Information Technology Act, 2000 was 
 deliberately used purely to convert a non cognizable offence into a 
 cognizable one. The Petitioner believes that though there was no case 

 
 against him under the Information Technology Act, 2000 , he was framed 
 under pressure/ influence of politically well connected person to firstly 
 get the Petitioner arrested and tortured in police custody and to harass 

 
 him further if needed. It is alleged that all this was with an intention to 
 
 force the Petitioner to withdraw the criminal cases against the said 
 Prataprao Pawar and his men. It is stated that a plain reading of the First 
 
 Information Report makes it clear that no case is made out against the 
 Petitioner. The First Information Report does not say that the Petitioner 
 was harassing anyone. He did not send any menacing or threatening 
 

 messages nor that any content of the websites was obtained through 
 

 illegitimate means. The only complaint being repeated is that his "Saheb" 
 was defamed by the actions of the Petitioner. 9 It is stated that the Petitioner is an Animal Welfare Officer 
 appointed by the Animal Welfare Board of India as well as the Bombay 
 High Court Committee for Animal Welfare. The Petitioner is extremely 

 concerned and frustrated over the situation of animals in the shelter by 
 name "Jeevraksha". It is alleged that Claude Lila Parulekar, the owner of 
 the shelter that has over 200-300 animals, is now completely helpless. She 
 is physically disabled and cannot even lift her head on her own and her 
 two limbs are paralyzed and one limb is fractured. She is mentally 
 inconsistent due to severe dementia and other ailments of the brain and ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *5* wp.314.12.sxw

 nervous system. The said Lila Parulekar has no relatives and therefore, a 
 politically well connected person is trying to grab her land. It is claimed 

 
 that the Petitioner is fighting against this illegality. 10 It is alleged that the Petitioner is, therefore, facing 
 harassment by Police and anti-social elements since last one and a half 

 
 year to withdraw from the issue. The false and frivolous complaints were 
 filed against the Petitioner with the Animal Welfare Board of India and the 
 Bombay High Court Animal Welfare Committee to get him derecognized 

 
 as an Animal Welfare Officer. It is stated that after facing enquiry from 
 
 Animal Welfare Board of India, the Petitioner was found to have been 
 framed and the so-called Complainants said that their signatures/ 
 
 letterheads have been forged. A second set of complaints was filed in the 
 name of Lila Parulekar with the AWBI in the month of September and the 
 AWBI after perusal of medical records, found that Lila Parulekar was not 
 

 in sound disposing mind. 11 It is alleged that the Complainant, in this case, at an earlier 
 occasion has used the similar modus operandi to force an opponent 

 named Chandrashekhar Hari Joshi to withdraw all cases filed by him 
 against Prataprao Pawar and his Company. In that particular case, merely 
 on the grounds that Mr.Chandrashekhar Hari Joshi had reimbursed his 

 credit card expenses from Lila Trust, he was in police custody for 7 days 
 and after which he withdrew all cases in the Company Law Board, District 
 Court, High Court and resigned from all Trusts and flew out of India for 
 an indefinite period. Subsequently, the Police were unable to find any 
 evidence and the case was closed. of animals since last 14 years and also a friend of Claude Lila Parulekar, 

 
 who is currently under house arrest and under illegal custody of 

 
 Prataprao Pawar. The Petitioner tried to raise awareness on the plight of 
 animals and Lila Parulekar through a website www.jeevraksha.org which 
 was made together by a group of Lila's friends and animal lovers called 

 
 Jeevraksha Support Group. The Petitioner also spread the message 
 through leaflet and email so that Lila and her animals can get justice. It is 
 claimed that the Petitioner also peacefully went to the said function held 

 
 to celebrate the Birth Centenary of Dr.Nanasaheb Parulekar, father of Lila 
 
 Parulekar. The Petitioner explained people about condition of Lila and 
 how she is being neglected and her property is being usurped. The 
 
 Petitioner has annexed the copies of websites at Annexure-B. The 
 Petitioner has also referred to the notice issued to him on behalf of 
 Prataprao Pawar. A copy of notice is at Annexure-C and reply thereto is at 
 

 Annexure-D to the Writ Petition. 13 In paragraphs 10 and 11 of this Writ Petition, this is what is 
 alleged:- 14 After alleging as above and complaining that the Petitioner 
 
 was denied bail on unjustified grounds and put under arrest, what has 
 been then alleged is that it is the Petitioner who has been defamed and 
 publicly. 15 For the above reasons, what is then alleged is that a perusal 
 of the First Information Report would not disclose commission of any 
 cognizable offence. The Information Technology Act, 2000 has been 

 deliberately referred to purely to convert a non cognizable offence into a 
 cognizable one. Though there was no case under the Information 
 Technology Act, 2000 , the Petitioner has been framed under pressure or 

 influence of politically well connected persons. 16 It is then stated that the website does not disclose any 
 menacing or offensive material. It is contended that the word "menace" 
 means threat, danger and nuisance, but nothing of that sort is emerging 
 from contents of the website. In these circumstances, the First ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *8* wp.314.12.sxw

 Information Report deserves to be quashed. 17 In support of this Writ Petition, Mr.Mor, learned counsel 

 
 appearing for the Petitioner, submits that the complaint does not disclose 
 commission of any offence. The allegations in the First Information 
 Report are vague. The essential ingredients of the offences have not been 

 
 referred to leave alone alleged. There is enormous delay in registering the 
 First Information Report. The entire action is vitiated by malafides 
 because the Petitioner is stated to have defamed a highly influential 

 
 person. The person concerned is Prataprao Pawar, Chairman of M/s Sakal 
 
 Papers Private Limited. He is a powerful person and has thus managed to 
 get the First Information Report registered although a bare reading of 
 
 sections which have been invoked, would indicate that the Information 
 Technology Act, 2000 could not have been invoked. There are no 
 particulars regarding which statement attributable to the Petitioner and 
 

 appearing on the website or leaflet, is defamatory or has caused nuisance, 
 

 annoyance, etc.. Further, the word "publication" is not appearing in Section 66-A of the Information Technology Act, 2000. That word is 
 specifically to be found in Section 67 and therefore, whenever the 

 Legislature desires to make publication or act of publishing any offensive 
 or obscene material as an offence, it has specifically said so. In that 
 behalf, our attention is invited to Sections 66-E , 67 , 67-A and 67-B of the 

 Information Technology Act, 2000. For these reasons, it is submitted that 
 the complaint does not disclose commission of any offence punishable 
 under the Information Technology Act, 2000 and therefore, the First 
 Information Report be quashed to this extent. allegedly defamed is recorded, but that of an employee of M/s Sakal 
 Papers Private Limited. In these circumstances, this Writ Petition be 

 
 allowed and the First Information Report to the extent prayed be 

 
 quashed. 19 On the other hand, the learned APP submits that the First 

 
 Information Report discloses commission of offences as alleged and 
 therefore, the Writ Petition be dismissed. Her arguments are supported by 
 the Complainant's Advocate as well. For properly appreciating the rival contentions, a reference to 
 the allegations in the First Information Report would be necessary. The 
 
 gist of these allegations have been already referred by us. Suffice it to 
 state that the Petitioner is accused of entering the Auditorium where the 
 function was scheduled and on 20.09.2011. At that time, it is alleged that 
 

 the Petitioner entered the hall and with a view to disrupt the function, by 
 

 pushing some guests, started distributing pamphlets containing 
 defamatory statements. The title of that pamphlet has been reproduced in 
 the statement of the General Manager Mr.Mahendra Pisal. The website 

 has also been referred and therefore, the allegations are that the contents 
 of this website defamed the said Prataprao Pawar and Sakal Papers 
 Private Limited. It is alleged that this is the sole motive of distributing the 

 pamphlets and containing defamatory statements. Even the contents of 
 website affirmed this position. The said contents and of website 
 www.jeevraksha.org have been set out at Annexure-B page 21 and what 
 one finds is that they indicate, prima facie, as to how there were disputes 
 between Parulekars and Pawars. It has also been set out as to how the 
 Pawar Group filed the complaint. It is in these circumstances that one ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *10* wp.314.12.sxw

 finds that the Petitioner would urge that this act, though, prima facie, 
 may come within the purview of Sections 499 and 500 of the Indian Penal 

 
 Code, cannot be said to be falling within and covered by the relevant 

 
 provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 . 21 We have been taken through the contents of other website 

 
 which is entitled www.savelila.com. We have also been taken through the 
 annexures of this Writ Petition. 22 The provisions which have been invoked, insofar as the Information Technology Act, 2000 is concerned, are Sections 66-A and 67 which read as under:- Explanation:- For the purpose of this section, terms 
 "electronic mail" and "electronic mail message" 23 The argument of the Petitioner's Advocate is that the First 
 Information Report does not disclose any offence. The Information 
 Technology Act, 2000 is added merely to register the First Information 

 Report because the allegations essentially are of defamation. The 
 Petitioner is reserving his rights to urge that no offence punishable under Sections 499 and 500 of the Indian Penal Code is committed. That right 

 will be exercised by him at appropriate stage before the Trial Court. 
 However, the Information Technology Act, 2000 itself and provisions in 
 question could not have been invoked particularly because website is not 
 covered within the subject provision. invoked in this case, would make it clear that same provides for 
 punishment for sending offensive messages through communication 

 
 service etc.. Any person who sends by means of a computer resource or a 

 
 communication device and in this case, any information which he knows 
 to be false, but for the purpose of causing annoyance, inconvenience, 
 danger, obstruction, insult, injury, etc. persistently by making use of such 

 
 computer resource or a communication device, shall be punished. The 
 explanation to the same would make it clear that what is punishable with 
 imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with fine, 

 
 is an act of sending, by means of a computer resource or a communication 
 
 device, any information which the person knows to be false and he sends 
 such information persistently by making use of such computer resource or 
 
 communication device for the purpose of causing annoyance, 
 inconvenience, danger, obstruction, insult, injury, criminal intimidation, 
 enmity, hatred or ill-will. The terms "electronic mail" and "electronic mail 
 

 message" have been defined to mean a message or information created or 
 

 transmitted or received on a computer, computer system, computer 
 resource or communication device including attachments in text, images, 
 audio, video and any other electronic record, which may be transmitted 

 with the message. 25 It is, therefore, common knowledge that these terms would 

 not have been defined in the explanation, had the intent of the legislature 
 been not to include within the purview of this provision the sending of 
 any information through website. In this behalf, the definition of the term 
 "information" in Section 2(1)(v) is to be read along with the terms 
 communication device, computer, computer network, computer resource, 
 computer system which definitions are to be found in the very Section ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *13* wp.314.12.sxw

 2(1). It would be apparent that sending offensive messages through 
 communication service would include computer or website and that is 

 
 implicit therein. The word "data" as defined in Section 2(1)(o) and other 

 
 definitions referred to above, read thus:- 26 A perusal of all these definitions would indicate that had the 
 Legislature intended to leave out or exclude "website", that would have 
 

 been by specific provision. If the intent is not to bring within the net or 
 

 purview of punishing or penal provision, an act of sending, by means of a 
 computer resource or a communication device, the grossly offensive or 
 menacing information or false information for the purpose of causing 

 annoyance, inconvenience, danger, obstruction, insult, injury, etc., then, 
 the Legislature would not have included clause (c) in Section 66-A .

 27 However, the argument before us is that the explanation 
 below Section 66-A is applicable to clause (c) and not the earlier clauses. 
 However, that argument is fallacious for the simple reason that sending 
 any information of the above nature, by means of a computer resource or 
 a communication device, is pertaining to data, text, images, audio, video, 
 etc. and therefore, relatable to Section 2(1)(v) , whereas, any person ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *15* wp.314.12.sxw

 sending any electronic mail or electronic mail message, by means of a 
 computer resource of a communication device, has also to be included 

 
 and therefore, when such an act of a person is also included within the 

 
 penal provision, then, the definition of the terms "email" and "email 
 message" was required to be incorporated and was thus, incorporated for 
 completeness. That does not mean that sending information by website 

 
 alone is included. If any mail or message in electronic form has not been 
 sent through a computer resource or a communication device, then, that 
 is out of the purview of the penal provision. On the other hand, the 

 
 provision refers to both computer resource, so also, communication device 
 
 inasmuch as it is not that merely a computer resource and sending 
 something of the above nature by that means alone is punishable. Any 
 
 communication device utilized for sending information of the above 
 nature is brought in and hence, there is no merit in the submissions of the 
 learned counsel appearing for the Petitioner. There is definition of the 
 

 term "computer" and which has communication facilities and which are 
 

 connected or related to a computer or computer system or computer 
 network and equally information is transmitted and mails or messages are 
 given not only through computers, but communication devices as well. Everything that is offensive or menacing or causing annoyance, 
 inconvenience, danger, insult, injury, etc. is thus, prohibited and such act 
 is made punishable. 28 This aspect becomes very clear if one peruses Section 66 which has been substituted by the Information Technology (Amendment) 
 Act, 2008 (10 of 2009) w.e.f. 27.10.2009. That Section 66 reads as 
 under:- 29 Therefore, Chapter XI terms the acts covered in each of the 
 
 provisions therein as offences and which are punishable. These sections 
 have to be read harmoniously with other provisions so as to make a 
 
 consistent enactment of the whole. The object and purpose of the Act as 
 enunciated in the Preamble is thus to safeguard and protect those making 
 positive use of the Information Technology. Those intending to misuse it 
 

 or abuse it have to be penalised and bearing in mind its tremendous 
 

 potential. The users are of different categories and come from all strata in 
 the society. Thus, the honest use is to be encouraged and dishonest one 
 has to be discouraged. Therefore, this argument must also fail. 30 The other argument is equally untenable and that is, there is 
 no question of sending any information by merely storing it in the 

 website. It is submitted that incorporating some matter about any person 
 in website does not mean sending it. It remains in the website. This is not 
 publication or circulation and therefore, this act is not covered by the 
 subject provision at all. A person is not sending anything by merely 
 creating a website. The ordinary and plain meaning of this term belies this 
 contention. It is defined to mean computing a location connected to the ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *17* wp.314.12.sxw

 Internet that maintains one or more web pages. 31 This contention is fallacious because the definition of the 

 
 terms computer system, computer network and computer resource would 
 make it clear that the Legislature had in mind all such acts as are 
 presently attributed to the Petitioner. It is abundantly clear that we are 

 
 dealing with are computer related offences. The computer network or 
 website can be accessed by anybody. The website on which the 
 information is stored was accessed in this case by the aggrieved 

 
 Complainant. That such website was created incorporating information is, 
 
 prima facie, undisputed. That by creating itself would not mean sending 
 it, is the argument. 32 That argument is wholly misconceived. The ordinary 
 meaning of "send" is "deposit in mail or deliver for transmission". It is also 
 

 defined to mean (a) "cause to go or be taken or delivered to a particular 
 

 destination" and (b) "arrange for someone to attend". In these 
 circumstances we do not see how this act of the Petitioner will not come 
 within the purview of the subject provisions of the Information 

 Technology Act, 2000 . The argument is that whenever the Legislature 
 intended that publication or transmission of obscene material in electronic 
 form is an offence, it has incorporated specific provision to that effect in 

 the enactment. The language of Section 67 is, therefore, pressed into 
 service. In the present case, sending cannot be termed as publishing or 
 transmitting. 33 Once again this argument fails to take note of the fact that 
 the area and field covered by two provisions, namely, Sections 66-A and ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *18* wp.314.12.sxw

 67, is not the same. The act of sending offensive messages through 
 communication services, etc. is a punishable offence under Section 66-A . 

 
 Equally, the act of publishing or transmitting obscene material in 

 
 electronic form is an offence by virtue of Section 67 . That is dealing with 
 the obscene material and the act of publishing and transmitting it, has 
 been referred and included. Section 66-A provides for punishment for 

 
 sending offensive messages. The message, which is in the form of 
 information, is of offensive and menacing character or false or causing 
 annoyance, inconvenience, danger, obstruction, etc. is covered by first two 

 
 clauses of Section 66-A and by clause (c), electronic mail or electronic 
 
 mail message has been brought within the purview and for obvious 
 reasons. It is not just an offensive, menacing or false information intended 
 
 to cause annoyance, inconvenience, obstruction, etc. which is dealt with, 
 but the resource or device utilized are also specifically referred. In other 
 words, without identifying the resource or device used for sending 
 

 information and message, it will not be proper to make it punishable. In 
 

 other words, the Legislature intended that the information emanating 
 from computer resource meaning thereby computer system, computer 
 network, computer database or software, must be included and that is 

 how it used the term "computer resource". When the act of sending 
 offensive message is emanating from communication device, then, for the 
 sake of clarity and completeness, the Legislature referred to the 

 communication device and thus, referred to Section 2(1)(ha) of the 
 Information Technology Act, 2000. The Information Technology Act, 2000 has brought in a legislation so as to provide legal recognition for 
 transactions carried out by means of electronic data interchange and 
 other means of electronic communication, commonly referred to as 
 "electronic commerce", which involve the use of alternatives to paper- *19* wp.314.12.sxw

 based methods of communication and storage of information, to facilitate 
 electronic filing of documents with the Government agencies and further 

 
 to amend the Indian Penal Code, the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 , the Banker's Books Evidence Act, 1891 and the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
 1934 and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. 34 The statement of objects and reasons of the Amendment Act 
 10 of 2009 clarifies that the Information Technology Act, 2000 was 
 enacted with a view to give a fillip to the growth of electronic based 

 
 transactions, to provide legal recognition for e-commerce and e- transactions, to facilitate e-governance, to prevent computer based crimes 
 and ensure security practices and procedures in the context of widest 
 
 possible use of information technology worldwide. The statement of 
 objects and reasons of the Amendment Act 10 of 2009 reads as under:- transactions, protection of personal data and 
 information and implementation of security practices 
 and procedures relating to these applications of 
 electronic communications have assumed greater 
 importance and they require harmonisation with the 
 provisions of the Information Technology Act . Further, 
 protection of Critical Information Infrastructure is 
 pivotal to national security, economy, public health 
 and safety, so it has become necessary to declare such ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *20* wp.314.12.sxw

 infrastructure as a protected system so as to restrict 
 its access. 3. A rapid increase in the use of computer and internet 
 has given rise to new forms of crimes like publishing 

 
 sexually explicit materials in electronic form, video 
 voyeurism and breach of confidentiality and leakage 
 of data by intermediary, e-commerce frauds like 
 personation commonly known as Phishing, identity 
 theft and offensive messages through communication 

 
 services. So, penal provisions are required to be 
 included in the Information Technology Act, the 
 Indian Penal Code, the Indian Evidence Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure to prevent such crimes. 4. The United Nations Commission on International 
 Trade Law (UNCITRAL) in the year 2001 adopted the 
 
 Model Law on Electronic Signatures. The General 
 Assembly of the United Nations by its resolution 
 No.56/80, dated 12th December, 2001, recommended 
 
 that all States accord favourable consideration to the 
 said Model Law on Electronic Signatures. Since the 
 digital signatures are linked to a specific technology 
 under the existing provisions of the Information 
 

 Technology Act , it has become necessary to provide for 
 alternate technology of electronic signatures for 
 

 bringing harmonisation with the said Model Law. 5. The service providers may be authorised by the 
 Central Government or the State Government to set 
 up, maintain and upgrade the computerised facilities 

 and also collect, retain and appropriate service 
 charges for providing such services at such scale as 
 may be specified by the Central Government or the 
 State Government. 6. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects." 35 Therefore, to urge that creation of website by facilitating its 
 access to others does not mean sending any information, would be 
 incorrect and not in tune with the legislative mandate. In "Encyclopaedia 
 of Information Technology Law, E-mail, the Internet and the Law, Essential 
 Knowledge for Safer Surfing, Tim Kevan and Paul McGrath, Universal Law ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *21* wp.314.12.sxw

 Publishing Company, Second Indian Reprint 2010", with reference to 
 decided cases by the Courts in United States of America and United 

 
 Kingdom, the authors point out the mischief that is imminent and by 

 
 ingenious defences. The Authors observed thus:- The claimant brought proceedings alleging defamation 
 

 for the period between 17th January and 27th January. 
 The defendants argued, inter alia, that they were not 
 the common law publishers. Morland J. held that the Defendants were 

 indeed common law publishers: (at 348e-f). The defendant had submitted that they were 
 merely the owner of an electronic device through 
 which postings were transmitted. However, Morland J. *22* wp.314.12.sxw

 rejected such a submission pointing to the fact that the 
 defendant stored postings within its computers and 

 
 could be accessed on that newsgroup. Further, the 
 defendant had sufficient control to obliterate the 

 
 postings when it felt so necessary. The decision is of 
 fundamental importance to ISPs. It also shows the 
 wide construction being applied to publication in the 
 internet field. .... The American authorities were reviewed in 
 some depth but then swiftly dealt with by stating that 
 the American law and English law were different in 
 approach and therefore the cases were of limited 

 
 persuasiveness. This case acknowledges that the 
 internet, and information on it, is not merely provided 
 
 by mechanical processes. The ISPs are to be seen as 
 living operations with control, and ultimately 
 responsibility, over the material that they provide." (see page 64 and 65) 

 This apprehension has also been expressed by some Indian 
 

 writers who have contributed their articles on this point. A comparison 
 

 between Sections 66-A and 67 is, therefore, out of place. 36 Equally, other argument that the term "inconvenience" appearing in Section 66-A(b) will enable parties like the Complainant in 
 this case, to involve the Petitioner and others like him in false criminal 
 case, cannot be accepted. It is stated that any information which is 

 inconvenient, does not mean it is offensive or menacing in character. That 
 may be informing public or anybody about a person or making any 
 remark or recording any opinion about his conduct and character. It is 
 bound to cause him inconvenience and by that act alone the offence is not 
 committed. Some information which may be inconvenient, but that does 
 not invite the penalty. this case, what the Legislature has termed as an offence and which invites 

 
 punishment is sending any information by means of a computer resource 
 as in this case which a person knows to be false, but it calculated to cause 
 annoyance, inconvenience, danger, obstruction, insult, injury, etc. 

 
 persistently by making use of a computer resource or a communication 
 device. Therefore, the act is an offence only because false information is 
 being sent and for the purpose of causing annoyance, inconvenience, etc.. Persistently sending such false information is an offence. The word 
 
 "inconvenience", therefore, must not be read in isolation or out of 
 context. The word takes its colour from other words in clause (b) of Section 66-A . The dictionary meaning of the term "inconvenience" is "a 
 discomfort; something that gives trouble". In Advanced Law Lexicon by 
 P.Ramanatha Aiyar, 3rd Edition Reprint 2007, this is the meaning ascribed 
 

 to the term "inconvenience". In ordinary and common parlance, the word 
 

 "inconvenience" as defined in New Concise Oxford English Dictionary, 
 Indian Edition, means "the state or fact of being slightly troublesome or 
 difficult". It also means "causing trouble, difficulties or discomfort". 38 If the information which the person sending knows to be false 
 is sent persistently for causing annoyance, then, it is bound to be 

 inconvenient in the sense it causes discomfiture. It is to create trouble and 
 make things difficult for him. It is in this backdrop that the word is used 
 and salutary principles of interpretation of statute that no word or no 
 phrase be read in isolation, but must be read in the context and consistent 
 with the intendment of the legislature, will govern the interpretation here. 
 Therefore, merely because the legislature had to incorporate some word ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *24* wp.314.12.sxw

 or term that it did not add it in this case. The word "inconvenience" was 
 used so that everything which is false and sent persistently will be abusing 

 
 the information technology. Such abuse of information technology has to 

 
 be prevented at all costs. It is in that backdrop that the legislature has 
 made a comprehensive provision and we do not find that there is 
 anything which interferes with the right of a person to communicate 

 
 through the means of this technology. It is intended to further the right 
 and particularly the fundamental freedom of speech and expression. The 
 freedom of speech and expression is not absolute, but subject to some 

 
 restrictions. That freedom is subject to reasonable restrictions and 
 
 anything that is indecent or contemptuous or defamatory cannot be said 
 to be covered in this right or freedom, is too well settled to require any 
 
 reference to either the Indian Constitution or any case law. It is settled 
 principle that just as every citizen is guaranteed freedom of speech and 
 expression, every citizen also has a right to protect his reputation, which 
 

 is regarded as a property. Hence, nobody can so use his freedom of speech 
 

 and expression as to injure another's reputation. In the context of right to 
 seek information or right to publish or circulate the views in periodicals, 
 magazines, journals or through electronic media, what has been held is 

 that this freedom must, however, be exercised with circumspection and 
 care must be taken not to trench on the rights of other citizens or to 
 jeopardise public interest. (See Life Insurance Corporation of India v/s 

 Manubhai D. Shah (1992)3 SCC 637). In this context, what has been 
 held by the Honourable Supreme Court in the case of Secretary, Ministry 
 of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India v/s Cricket 
 Association of Bengal , reported in AIR 1995 SC 1236 and after a survey 
 of all decisions in the field, is extremely relevant and that reads thus:- Similarly, the said right cannot be so exercised as to 
 
 amount to contempt of court, defamation or 
 incitement of an offence. Existing laws providing 
 such restrictions are saved and the State is free to 
 make laws in future imposing such restrictions. The grounds aforesaid are conceived in the interest 
 of ensuring and maintaining conditions in which 
 

 the said right can meaningfully and peacefully be 
 exercised by the citizens of this country. 53. The freedom of speech and expression is a right given 

 to every citizen of this country and not merely to a 
 few. No one can exercise his right of speech in such a 
 manner as to violate another man's right of speech. 
 One man's right to speak ends where the other man's 
 right to speak begins. Indeed, it may be the duty of 

 the State to ensure that this right is available to all in 
 equal measure and that it is not hijacked by a few 
 to the detriment of the rest. This obligation flows 
 from the preamble to our Constitution, which seeks 
 to secure to all its citizens liberty of thought, 
 expression, belief and worship. State being a product 
 of the Constitution is as much committed to this goal 
 as any citizen of this country. Indeed, this obligation 
 also flows from the injunction in Article 14 that "the ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *26* wp.314.12.sxw

 State shall not deny to any person equality before the 
 law" and the direction in Article 38(2) to the effect: In the above circumstances, we do not find that the present 
 act of the Petitioner as termed by him is merely causing inconvenience 
 
 and therefore, he is sought to be proceeded against. It is only a false 
 information which causes inconvenience and if it is sent persistently and 
 not otherwise. That is the offence. Such construction of the provision in 
 

 question would avoid any person sending the messages being hauled up 
 

 and punished unnecessarily as apprehended by the Petitioner. Ultimately, 
 whether any offence within the meaning of this section has been 
 committed or not will depend upon the facts and circumstances in each 

 case. Whether the allegations in the complaint are proved beyond 
 reasonable doubt will depend upon the evidence led by parties. It is open 
 for the Trial Court to arrive at an independent conclusion in each case as 

 to whether the charge is proved by satisfying itself that the essential 
 ingredients of the section are established or not. 40 As a result of the above discussion and when we find that 
 there is no material which would vitiate the registration of the First 
 Information Report in this case nor can it be said to be lacking in ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:14:59 ::: *27* wp.314.12.sxw

 particulars or vague, then, our discretionary and equitable jurisdiction 
 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India r/w Section 482 of the Code 

 
 of Criminal Procedure, 1973 cannot be invoked by the Petitioner. The 

 
 Petitioner cannot request us to interfere in our such jurisdiction merely 
 because in his opinion the First Information Report is delayed. That is a 
 plea which the Petitioner can raise at appropriate stage and during the 

 
 trial. Therefore, such general and vague plea need not detain us.
 41 In this behalf we would fail in our duty if we do not invite the 
 attention of all concerned to the judgment of the Honourable Supreme 

 
 Court in the case of State of Karnataka and another v/s Dr.Praveen Bhai 
 
 Thogadia , reported in AIR 2004 SC 2081. The Supreme Court observed 
 as under:- 42 In view of the above discussion, the Writ Petition fails. Rule is 
 discharged. 43 At this stage, a request is made to continue the ad-interim 
 

 order dated 13.03.2012 for a period of eight weeks to enable the 
 

 Petitioner to challenge this judgment in a higher court. This request is 
 opposed by the Complainant's Advocate. Having heard the counsel on this 
 point, what we find is that the petition is dismissed by us after holding 

 that the First Information Report discloses prima facie commission of a 
 cognizable offence. Further, what we find is that the arguments were 
 restricted to interpretation of Section 66-A of the Information Technology 

 Act, 2000. The First Information Report alleges commission of offence 
 punishable under Section 500 of the Indian Penal Code as well. In these 
 circumstances the request as made cannot be granted. This request is 
 refused.