PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV, J. (ORAL)

 CM APPL. 34811/2023 (for exemption) 1. Allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. The application is disposed of. W.P.(C) 9155/2023 and CM APPL. 34810/2023 3. The petitioner, vide the instant writ petition has prayed for the
 following reliefs:- 4. Mr.Sanjeev Ralli, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the
 petitioner submits that the impugned notice dated 02.05.2023 is issued
 without jurisdiction and even otherwise the same is completely illegal and
 improper. According to him, the instant writ petition is maintainable on the
 ground that the provisions of the Securitization and Reconstruction of
 Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (hereinafter
 ' SARFAESI Act ') are not attracted. According to him, for taking an action
 under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act, there has to be a 'security
 interest' created in favour of any 'secured creditor'. He states that it is only
 the 'security interest' which can be enforced under the provisions of Section
 13 of the SARFAESI Act. 5. Learned senior counsel submits that in the instant case, the petitioner
 is neither a borrower nor a director. He also states that the second floor of the
 property mortgaged to the respondent no.1 belongs to the petitioner as per
 the registered Sale Deed dated 23.01.2019. He has also taken this court
 through public notice issued in January, 2022 which has been placed on
 record as Annexure-P6. 6. According to the learned senior counsel, the said notice was pasted on
 the property in question which was duly replied vide legal notice dated
 11.01.2022. In terms of paragraph nos.5 and 6 thereof, it was categorically
 stated that the petitioner i.e. Ms. Vanya Jain is the lawful owner of the
 property bearing no.C - 3/15, Ashok Vihar, Phase- 2, New Delhi-110052 and
 is under lawful possession of the said property. 7. According to the averments made in the legal notice dated 11.01.2022,
 it is submitted that the petitioner has never created any charge over the said
 property. It was also stated that the petitioner neither took any loan from
 respondent no.1 nor stood as a guarantor in any other loan agreement. For
 the sake of clarity, paragraph nos.5 and 6 of the legal notice dated
 11.01.2022, which was sent in reply to the public notice are reproduced as
 under:- 8. He further submits that after the aforesaid reply was sent to the
 respondents; the respondents thereafter did not take any action and they have
 maintained silence for a considerable period of one year. The petitioner
 presumed that the respondents were satisfied with the stand taken by the
 petitioner. However, to her utter surprise, vide impugned notice dated
 02.05.2023 (Annexure-P1), the respondents went on to issue a Demand
 Notice under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act. 9. Learned senior counsel has also pointed out the reply to petitioner's
 legal notice dated 11.01.2022 by respondent no.1 dated 17.05.2023
 (Annexure-P8) to highlight that respondents in the said reply dated
 17.05.2023 in paragraph 4(c) stated that the loan agreement dated 08.01.2018
 was executed between the borrower and respondent no.1 and in order to
 secure the said loan facility, Mr. Praveen Jain also created mortgage in
 favour of respondent no.1 and further deposited the original disclaimer deed
 dated 26.02.2016. 10. He, therefore, states that even the stand of respondent no.1 at the two
 stages is inconsistent. According to him, the aforesaid disclaimer deed dated
 26.02.2016 and the registered sale deed of the property in question was
 executed on 23.01.2019 in favour of the petitioner which unequivocally
 states that the same is free from all encumbrances. 11. Learned senior counsel while taking this court through the provisions
 of Section 13(1) and (2) of the SARFAESI Act has also highlighted the
 definition of 'security interest' under Section 2(zf) and 'security agreement'
 under Section 2 (zb) of the SARFAESI Act. 12. Learned senior counsel also relied upon the decisions of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the cases of Radha Krishan Industries vs. State of
 Himachal Pradesh & Ors.1and Satwati Deswal vs. State of Haryana and
 Ors.2, a decision of the Madras High Court in the case of M/s Moneyline
 Credit Ltd. vs. Sh. Sanjeev Kumar And Ors.3 and a decision passed by the 1 (2021) 6 SCC 771. (2010) 1 SCC 126. 2014:DHC:4920. Single Judge of this court in the case of R. Janakiraman vs. State by
 Inspector of Police, CBI, SPE, Madras4 . 13. According to him, under exceptional circumstances, a writ petition
 would be maintainable, and in a case, where the petitioner is able to satisfy
 that the impugned action is wholly without jurisdiction, there is no bar to
 entertain a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.
 Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner has also read
 over various paragraphs of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court to
 substantiate his submissions. 14. I have heard the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the
 petitioner and perused the record. 15. Sections 13(1) , 13(2) and 13(3A) of the SARFAESI Act are
 reproduced as under:- (2006) 1 SCC 697. (3A) If, on receipt of the notice under sub-section (2), the borrower makes
 any representation or raises any objection, the secured creditor shall
 consider such representation or objection and if the secured creditor
 comes to the conclusion that such representation or objection is not
 acceptable or tenable, he shall communicate [within fifteen days] of
 receipt of such representation or objection the reasons for non acceptance
 of the representation or objection to the borrower" 16. In the instant case, the petitioner seeks to challenge the initiation of the
 recovery proceedings. If the provisions of Section 13(3A) of the SARFAESI
 Act are perused, the same would indicate that after service of the demand
 notice under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act, the borrower can make a
 representation or raise objection before the secured creditor. The secured
 creditor is under an obligation to consider such representation or objection
 made by the borrower and if the secured creditor comes to a conclusion that
 such representation or objection is not acceptable or tenable, he shall
 communicate the reasons for non-acceptance of the representation or
 objection to the borrower within 15 days of receipt of such representation or
 objection. 17. Learned senior counsel submits that the petitioner made a
 representation under Section 13(3A) of the SARFAESI Act vide notice dated
 19.05.2023(Annexure-P11) and raised objections against the demand notice
 dated 02.05.2023. The respondents vide letter dated 03.06.2023(Annexure-
 P12) replied that the petitioner, by the way of such representation, intends to
 procrastinate and derail the proceedings initiated under the SARFAESI Act ,
 and for that reason the representation made and the objections raised by the
 petitioner vide notice dated 19.05.2023 are not acceptable and tenable. 18. It may also be considered, at this stage, that the proviso to Section Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Digitally Signed CHOPRA Signing Date:28.07.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:28:20 KUMAR KAURAV 8 13(3A) as also the explanation to Section 17(1) of the SARFAESI Act
 explicitly provide that the reasons so communicated or the likely action of
 the secured creditor shall not confer any right upon the borrower, to
 challenge the action of the creditor by way of an application to the Debt
 Recovery Tribunal ('DRT') under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. The
 proviso to Section 13(3A) and the explanation to Section 17(1) are
 reproduced as under: 19. This proviso to Section 13(3A) and the explanation to Section 17(1) was inserted through the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of
 Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 (hereinafter ' Amending Act of 2004').
 In order to decipher the intention of the legislature, the Statement of Object
 and Reasons of the amending act may be referred to. The material part of it
 reads as under: section (2) of Section 13 of the said Act, raises any objection or
 places facts for consideration of the secured creditor, such reply
 to the notice must be considered with due application of mind
 and the reasons for not accepting the objections, howsoever brief
 that may be, must be communicated to the borrower. The reasons
 so communicated shall only be for the purposes of the
 information/knowledge of the borrower without giving rise to any
 right to approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal under Section 17 of the Act, at that stage. 3. In view of the above judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and also
 to discourage the borrowers to postpone the repayment of their dues and
 also enable the secured creditor to speedily recover their debts, if
 required, by enforcement of security or other measures specified in sub-
 section (4) of Section 13 of the said Act, it had become necessary to
 amend the provisions of the said Act. 4. Since the Parliament was not in session and it was necessary to take
 immediate action to amend the said Act for the above reasons, the
 Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Digitally Signed CHOPRA Signing Date:28.07.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:28:20 KUMAR KAURAV 10 (Amendment) Ordinance, 2004 was promulgated on the 11th November,
 2004." [Emphasis supplied] 20. It can thus be seen that the Amending Act of 2004 intended to prevent,
 and further prescribe, intervention to take place at the stage of Section 13(2) and 13(3A) of the SARFAESI Act. 21. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in M/s. Hindon Forge Pvt. Ltd. & Anr.
 vs. State of Uttar Pradesh5 while discussing the Amending Act of 2004 and
 its effect upon the scheme of the SARFAESI Act , explained the rationale for
 disallowing a borrower from preferring an application to the DRT against
 assailing the steps taken by a secured creditor under Section 13(2) and 13(3A) of the SARFAESI Act. In paragraph no.10, the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court observed as under: [Emphasis supplied] 22. It can thus be seen that at the stage of Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI 5 (2019) 2 SCC 198. Act, wherein a demand notice is to be sent by a secured creditor to its
 borrower demanding discharge of liabilities, as also when the secured
 creditor is obligated to consider the reply of a borrower made to the demand
 notice, as provided for under Section 13(3A) of the SARFAESI Act, there is
 no actual harm that is caused to a borrower. 23. It is also of significance to note that the legislature through its SARFAESI Act has provided the borrower an opportunity to challenge the
 actions of the secured creditor at the stage of Section 13(4) by preferring an
 application under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. The scheme of the SARFAESI Act , therefore, envisages a procedure that attempts to shield a
 secured creditor from the interventions of the judicial process till the stage of Section 14 has been reached. 24. This finding may be better appreciated in light of the broader purpose
 for which the SARFAESI Act was enacted. The material part of the
 Statement of Objects and Reasons for the SARFAESI Act reads as under: [Emphasis supplied] 25. It can thus be seen that in order to allow secured creditors to realize
 their security interests, the SARFAESI Act , aimed to keep judicial
 intervention at a minimum. The pronouncements of the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court and the various High Courts have further resonated this opinion. This
 court considers it appropriate to consider a few judgments relevant to the
 present factual matrix. 26. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Punjab National Bank and Anr. vs.
 Imperial Gift House and Ors.6 decided an appeal assailing an order of the
 concerned High Court that involved a pari materia factual scenario. The
 material part of the judgment is reproduced as under: [Emphasis supplied] 27. In the case of United Bank of India vs. Satyawati Tondon,7 Hon'ble
 Supreme Court, upon a detailed consideration of the statutory scheme under
 the SARFAESI Act , held that the writ petition ought not to be entertained in
 view of the alternate statutory remedy available. The relevant paragraph nos.
 42, 43, 44, 45 and 55 read as under- 44. While expressing the aforesaid view, we are conscious that the
 powers conferred upon the High Court under Article 226 of the
 Constitution to issue to any person or authority, including in
 appropriate cases, any Government, directions, orders or writs
 including the five prerogative writs for the enforcement of any of
 the rights conferred by Part III or for any other purpose are very
 wide and there is no express limitation on exercise of that power
 but, at the same time, we cannot be oblivious of the rules of self-
 imposed restraint evolved by this Court, which every High Court is
 bound to keep in view while exercising power under Article 226 of
 the Constitution. 45. It is true that the rule of exhaustion of alternative remedy is a
 rule of discretion and not one of compulsion, but it is difficult to
 fathom any reason why the High Court should entertain a petition
 filed under Article 226 of the Constitution and pass interim order
 ignoring the fact that the petitioner can avail effective alternative
 remedy by filing application, appeal, revision, etc. and the
 particular legislation contains a detailed mechanism for redressal
 of his grievance. *** 55. It is a matter of serious concern that despite repeated
 pronouncement of this Court, the High Courts continue to ignore
 the availability of statutory remedies under the DRT Act and
 the SARFAESI Act and exercise jurisdiction under Article 226 for
 passing orders which have serious adverse impact on the right of
 banks and other financial institutions to recover their dues. We
 hope and trust that in future the High Courts will exercise their
 discretion in such matters with greater caution, care and
 circumspection." 28. Thus, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in catena of cases has held that the
 writ jurisdiction being equitable, is discretionary in nature, and should not be
 exercised unless there are exceptional circumstances. Similar observations
 were made in Commissioner of Income Tax & Ors vs. Chhabil Dass Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By :NEHA Digitally Signed CHOPRA Signing Date:28.07.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:28:20 KUMAR KAURAV 15 Aggarwal8 and General Manager, Sri Siddeshwara Cooperative Bank Ltd.
 and Anr. vs. Ikbal & Ors9. 29. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of Radha Krishan
 Industries (supra) has held as under:- 27.4. An alternate remedy by itself does not divest the High
 Court of its powers under Article 226 of the Constitution in
 an appropriate case though ordinarily, a writ petition should
 not be entertained when an efficacious alternate remedy is
 provided by law. 27.5 When a right is created by a statute, which itself
 prescribes the remedy? or procedure for enforcing the right
 or liability, resort must be had to that particular statutory
 remedy before invoking the discretionary remedy under Article 226 of the Constitution. This rule of exhaustion of
 statutory remedies is a rule of policy, convenience and
 discretion. 27.6. In cases where there are disputed questions of fact, the
 High Court may decide to decline jurisdiction in a writ
 petition. However, if the High Court is objectively of the view 8 (2014) 1 SCC 603. (2013)10 SCC 83. that the nature of the controversy requires the exercise of its
 writ jurisdiction, such a view would not readily be interfered
 with. 28. These principles have been consistently upheld by this Court in Chand Ratan v. Durga Prasad , Babubhai Muljibhai Patel v. Nandlal
 Khodidas Barol and Rajasthan SEBI v. Union of India among other
 decisions." 30. No doubt, if the writ court is satisfied that the action is wholly without
 jurisdiction, it can entertain a writ petition. However, in the instant case the
 petitioner is not remediless. The petitioner has already availed the right of
 making a representation, which is duly replied by the respondents. The
 petitioner, therefore, will have to wait till measures under Section 13(4) of
 the SARFAESI Act are taken by the respondents to avail the remedy under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. In the interregnum, the scope for
 interference in writ jurisdiction is not warranted. 31. The High Court normally should not entertain a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India at this stage. The aforesaid legal
 position has been summarized by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mardia Chemicals Ltd. v Union of India10 . Paragraphs nos. 39 and 40 of the
 said decision read as under:- It is thus clear that an appeal under sub-section (1) of Section 17 would lie only after some measure has been taken under sub-
 section (4) of Section 13 and not before the stage of taking of any
 such measure. According to sub-section (2), the borrower has to
 deposit 75% of the amount claimed by the secured creditor before
 his appeal can be entertained." 32. In paragraph no. 45 it is further explained as under:- 33. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Standard Chartered Bank Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Digitally Signed CHOPRA Signing Date:28.07.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:28:20 KUMAR KAURAV 19 v. V. Noble Kumar11 has also dealt with the scheme of the SARFAESI Act .
 The relevant paragraph nos. 27 and 28 read as under:- as originally existed in Section 17 is substituted by the word
 "representation" in view of the judgment of this Court in Mardia
 Chemicals case."59. We may like to observe that proceedings
 under Section 17 of the Act, in fact, are not appellate proceedings.
 It seems to be a misnomer. In fact it is the initial action which is
 brought before a forum as prescribed under the Act, raising
 grievance against the action or measures taken by one of the
 parties to the contract. It is the stage of initial proceeding like
 filing a suit in civil court. As a matter of fact proceedings under Section 17 of the Act are in lieu of a civil suit which remedy is
 ordinarily available but for the bar under Section 34 of the Act in
 the present case." (Mardia Chemicals case, SCC p. 352, para 59)]
 under Section 17 after the possession of the secured asset is handed 11 (2013)9 SCC 620. over to the secured creditor. Section 13(4)(a) declares that the
 secured creditor may take possession of the secured assets. It does
 not specify whether such a possession is to be obtained directly by
 the secured creditor or by resorting to the procedure under Section 14. We are of the opinion that by whatever manner the secured
 creditor obtains possession either through the process
 contemplated under Section 14 or without resorting to such a
 process obtaining of the possession of a secured asset is always a
 measure against which a remedy under Section 17 is available. 28. It can be noticed from the language of the proviso to Section
 13 (3-A) and the language of Section 17 that an "appeal" under Section 17 is available to the borrower only after losing possession
 of the secured asset. The employment of the words "aggrieved by
 ... taken by the secured creditor" (emphasis supplied) in Section
 17(1) clearly indicates the appeal under Section 17 is available to
 the borrower only after losing possession of the property. To set at
 naught any doubt regarding the interpretation of Section 17 , the
 proviso [ "Provided that the reasons so communicated or the likely
 action of the secured creditor at the stage of communication of
 reasons shall not confer any right upon the borrower to prefer an
 application to the Debts Recovery Tribunal under Section 17 or the
 Court of District Judge under Section 17-A."] to sub-section (3-A)
 of Section 13 makes it explicitly clear that either the reasons
 indicated for rejection of the objections of the borrower or
 the likely action of the secured creditor shall not confer any right
 under Section 17 ." 34. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of M/s. South Indian Bank
 Ltd. & Ors. vs. Naveen Mathew Philips & Anr.12 held that the High Courts
 should not interfere in commercial matters where equally efficacious
 alternative forum exists and the powers conferred under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India are to be exercised only in extraordinary circumstances,
 particularly in commercial matters which involve a lender and a borrower
 and the legislature has provided specific mechanism for redressal. 35. A similar view has also been taken by this court in the case of Satpal
 Singh Kohli and Anr. vs. Canara Bank13 whereby, the court was not
 inclined to entertain the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India. The relevant paragraph nos. 14, 15 and 16 read as under:- 36. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Phoenix Arc Pvt. Ltd. v.
 Vishwa Bharati Vidya Mandir and Ors.14 , has held that the filing of writ
 petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution of India assailing actions
 under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act, while ignoring the statutory
 remedies provided under Section 17 , is an abuse of the process of law.
 Paragraph no.21 of the said judgment reads as under: 2015 was a notice under Section 13(4) , in that case also, in view of
 the statutory, efficacious remedy available by way of appeal under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act, the High Court ought not to have
 entertained the writ petitions. Even the impugned orders passed by
 the High Court directing to maintain the status quo with respect to
 the possession of the secured properties on payment of Rs 1 crore
 only (in all Rs 3 crores) is absolutely unjustifiable. The dues are to
 the extent of approximately Rs 117 crores. The ad interim relief has
 been continued since 2015 and the secured creditor is deprived of
 proceeding further with the action under the SARFAESI Act . Filing of
 the writ petition by the borrowers before the High Court is nothing
 but an abuse of process of court. It appears that the High Court has
 initially granted an ex parte ad interim order mechanically and
 without assigning any reasons. The High Court ought to have
 appreciated that by passing such an interim order, the rights of the
 secured creditor to recover the amount due and payable have been
 seriously prejudiced. The secured creditor and/or its assignor have
 a right to recover the amount due and payable to it from the
 borrowers. The stay granted by the High Court would have serious
 adverse impact on the financial health of the secured
 creditor/assignor. Therefore, the High Court should have been
 extremely careful and circumspect in exercising its discretion while
 granting stay in such matters. In these circumstances, the
 proceedings before the High Court deserve to be dismissed." 37. It is of importance to consider that the judgement of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the case of Phoenix ARC (supra), was in the context of
 actions taken by a secured creditor under Section 14 , from which appeal lies
 under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. In other words, the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court exhorted that ordinarily writ petitions ought not to be
 entertained that assail actions taken under Section 14 , which expressly allow
 judicial intervention in the form of an appeal under Section 17 of the Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Digitally Signed CHOPRA Signing Date:28.07.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:28:20 KUMAR KAURAV 23 SARFAESI Act . 38. This court is of the opinion that the judgement of Phoenix ARC (supra), in relation to the abuse of the process of law, applies with greater
 rigour against actions taken under provisions of law which are merely aimed
 at initiating proceedings, and are at a stage at which the Act concerned itself
 does not allow an appeal. Key distinctions between the stages from which
 appeals or applications can be preferred to challenge a decision of a creditor,
 needs to be appreciated. In this context, this court may beneficially refer to
 another pronouncement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
 Authorized office, State Bank of Travancore v. Mathew K.C.15 . The
 material part of the judgement reads as under: 7. The Section 13(4) notice along with possession notice under Rule 8 was
 issued on 21-4-2015. The remedy under Section 17 of the SARFAESI
 Act was now available to the respondent if aggrieved..." [Emphasis supplied] 39. This court is therefore of the opinion that in the instant case, the
 respondents, by issuing the demand notice under Section 13(2) of the 15 (2018) 3 SCC 85. SARFAESI Act have merely attempted to comply with the statutory
 requirements, that enable them to proceed under the statutory framework of
 the SARFAESI Act . The stage of Section 13(3A) has been expressly made
 non-appealable by virtue of the proviso to Section 13(3A) and the
 explanation to Section 17(1) . It would thus be a disservice to the will of the
 legislature, if this court through the means of the present writ petition,
 circumvents the statutory process. The petitioner in order to assail the actions
 of the respondents has to await the stage of Section 13(4) , and thereafter
 approach the DRT to agitate its concerns. The present petition is therefore
 found to be premature. 40. At this stage, this court may briefly consider the contention of the
 petitioner relating to the respondents allegedly committing a fraud by virtue
 of them not disclosing the charge upon the property in issue, at the time at
 which the sale deed dated 23.01.2019 was executed. 41. Per contra, the respondents in their communication dated 03.06.2023
 categorically submitted that the sale deed dated 23.01.2019 was executed
 between the parties having full knowledge of the fact that the subject
 property was mortgaged with respondent no.1. For the sake of clarity,
 paragraph nos. 3 to 10 of the communication dated 03.06.2023 are
 reproduced as under:- 42. There is thus a significant dispute between the parties relating to the
 factual issue of the petitioner possessing the requisite knowledge about the
 charges upon the property in issue. 43. This court does not consider it appropriate to decide upon this disputed
 question of fact in a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 44. The decisions relied upon on behalf of the petitioner are not on the
 issue of entertaining a writ petition at the stage of Section 13(2) of the
 SARFAESI Act. The proposition of law laid down therein may have
 relevance at an appropriate stage. It is for this reason, all the decisions, at this
 stage, would not help the petitioner. 45. Having considered the submissions and in view of the settled legal
 position as explained above, this court, at this stage, is not inclined to
 entertain the instant writ petition and the same is, therefore, dismissed along Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:NEHA Digitally Signed CHOPRA Signing Date:28.07.2023 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:28:20 KUMAR KAURAV 27 with the pending application. 46. All the rights and contentions of the parties are left open to be
 considered by the appropriate forum at the appropriate stage, in accordance
 with law. This court has not expressed any opinion on the merits of the case.