1. This Cyber Appeal No. 14 of 2015, by State Bank of Patiala (now State

 Bank of India), Aliganj Lucknow Branch, against M/s Suhas Enterprises,

 Registered Partnership Firm, through its authorised partner, Mr. Suhas

 Mankame, complainant - Respondent No. 1, Bank of Maharashtra,

 Head Office, as well as Bank of Maharashtra, through its Branch

 Manager, Mr. Prakash Chittodkar, respondent nos. 2 and 3, Vodafone

 Essar Limited, respondent no. 4, Dhanlaxmi Bank Ltd. Branch - Jaipur,

 through its Branch Manager, Mr. Anup Nair as well as Dhanlaxmi

 Bank, Head Office, respondent no. 5 (A & B), State Bank of India, its

 General Manager as well as Branch Manager, respondent no. 6(A & B),

 Punjab National Bank, Head Office as well as its Branch Manager,

 respondent no. 7 (A & B), under Section 57 of the Information

 Technology Act, 2000, against Order dated 12.01.2015, passed in

 Cyber Complaint No. 26 of 2013, by Adjudicating Officer(AO), Shri

 Rajesh Aggarwal, Principal Secretary, Information Technology,

 Government of Maharashtra, Mumbai, under section 43 , 43A , 46 , 61 , 72A , read with section 85 of IT Act, 2000, is with this contention that

 Mr. Saurabh Pandey, on 15.4.2013, got opened his savings Bank A/c

 No. 55144678983, at appellant Bank Branch State Bank of Patiala, 5 Aliganj Branch, Lucknow, after complying with KYC norms, laid down

 by Reserve Bank of India, by producing his proof of identity i.e. PAN

 Card bearing No. BXHPP9737Q, and proof of address i.e. Voter

 Identity Card bearing EPIC No. TDQ0307096, together with a

 photograph of him. These documents are Annexure A1 (colly.) to the

 memo of Appeal. 2. As per directions of circular letter No. GB S&P/50 of 2007-08 dated

 9.2.2008, the requisite compliance of proof of identity and proof of

 address was got complied with, then after account was got opened

 validly. There had been transaction of deposit of Rs. 1000/- on

 15.4.2013, and thereafter, account operated by Shri Pandey on

 17.7.2013, for the first time. Copy of Statement of above Account is

 Annexure A-4 to the memo of Appeal. On 17.7.2013, a request

 through email from Bank of Maharashtra through Shri Anil K Popli,

 Senior Manager RTGS, Treasury and International Banking Division,

 Mumbai, was received by appellant bank to put hold the account No.

 55144678983 of Shri Saurabh Pandey. 3. However, multiple withdrawal transactions in the tune of

 Rs.7,40,000/- had already been taken place before the receipt of 6 information from Bank of Maharashtra on 17.7.2013 and after receipt

of this information the remaining amount of Rs. Two lakhs only was

kept on hold. On 31.7.2013, Mr. D S Arve, Police Inspector, Dattawadi

Police Station, Pune City, Maharashtra, requested appellant bank to

furnish information under section 91 , CrPC, 1973. It was replied by a

letter dated 25.10.2013. M/s Suhas Enterprises, complainant, through

its authorised person i.e. Respondent No. 1 / complainant, filed a

complaint dated 22.11.2013, bearing number 26 of 2013, before Shri

Rajesh Aggarwal, Principal Secretary, Information Technology,

Government of Maharashtra, Mumbai, Adjudicating Officer, under section 43 , 43A , 46 , 61 , 72A read with section 85 of IT Act, 2000,

against Bank of Maharashtra, respondent nos. 2 and 3, and M/s

Vodafone Essar Limited, respondent no. 4, for claim of compensation,

wherein, vide interim order, dated 14.10.2013, it was held that

complainant, respondent no. 1 was having his Cash Credit Account

bearing no. 60129897006, with Bank of Maharashtra, having its

branch at Sinhagad Road, Pune, i.e respondent no. 3. Complainant /

respondent no. 1 received a call from respondent no. 3, Security

Operation Centre, on 17.7.2013 that large amounts were taken out

from its above bank account, through online transfers. Whereupon 7 complainant / respondent no. 1 visited respondent bank No. 3, Branch

 Manager and requested him to freeze its account, as well as account

 where money has been illegally transferred. Then it was apprised by

 Complainant / respondent no. 1 that on 17.7.2013, some unknown

 persons had got deactivated his mobile number 9158000825 and got a

 new SIM card from Cell operating company, respondent no. 4

 Vodafone Essar Ltd., without due verification and information to

 complainant/respondent no. 1, and during the course of investigation,

 it was found that many of the accounts into which the fraudulent

 transactions transferred, were got frozen. 4. Bank of Maharashtra was directed to deposit frozen amounts within 7

 days of the order. It was further held, vide interim order dated

 29.10.2013, that alleged fraudulent transferred amounts of

 complainant / respondent no. 1, were illegally transferred to several

 bank accounts opened with Dhanlaxmi Bank, State Bank of India, as

 well as the appellant bank, wherein remaining balance amount was

 frozen. Learned Adjudicating Officer released all the amounts

 pertaining to the disputed transaction to the accounts of complainant/

 respondent no. 1 and appellant too remitted Rs. Two lakhs to the 8 account of complainant / respondent no. 1. By way of amendment

application, pleadings of petition/complaint was got amended

wherein, appellant as well as Dhanlakshmi Bank, State Bank of India,

Punjab National Bank, were got added as respondents. Notices were

got issued on 19.11.2023. Replies were got filed and after hearing,

impugned order under appeal, dated 12.1.2015 was got passed, which

has been assailed in this appeal, with contention that impugned order

is misconceived, untenable in the eyes of law, is with no reasons, nor

with any appreciation of fact and law. Appellant Bank had opened

savings bank account of Mr. Saurabh Pandey, after full compliance of

guidelines and norms, given with regard to KYC. The requisite

documents, valid for proof of identity and proof of address, were

taken with photographs of account holder and after due verification, it

was got opened. Legislative intent of Section 43A of IT Act, was with

regard to responsibility for safeguarding any sensitive personal data,

to be handled with regard to particular person, affected thereat. But

appellant bank cannot be held responsible for the sensitive personal

data of the complainant / respondent no. 1, for which he was having

no data, nor it got arrayed as a party initially. No finding with regard to

responsibility of appellant is there. Mere finding of non adherence 9 with KYC norm with regard to money mule account, in order to

 prevent cyber crime, by appellant bank, may not be a basis of

 impugned order, for making payment of compensation in the tune of

 Rs. 7.5 lakhs, ordered in impugned order. 5. The direction was for making payment within four weeks of judgment.

 Whereas, section 57(3) of IT, 2000, itself provides for 45 days for

 appeal, that too after the date of communication of the order. Hence,

 in that appeal period, compulsive coercive order may not be passed.

 Order itself is erroneous on this alone ground. More so, complainant /

 respondent no. 1 was under knowledge of its all banking credentials,

 but it failed to make it secret, rather, it was made available to others,

 which resulted this siphoning of money from his account. There was

 no defiance of any circular by appellant bank, nor there had been any

 reason given in the impugned judgment. Hence, this appeal with

 above prayer for setting aside the impugned order. 6. Cyber Appeal No. 16 of 2015, was filed by 'Vodafone Cellular Limited'

 against Union of India and Others against same impugned order dated

 12th January 2015, passed in same Complaint No. 26 of 2013, under 10 Section 57 of IT Act, 2000, within jurisdiction of this Tribunal, as well

as under limitation period, provided for this Appeal, assailing the same

impugned order of Adjudicating Officer, with this contention, that

present Appellant is a Public Limited Company, incorporated under

the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 , having its registered Office

at Vodafone Cellular Limited, 1045/ 1046, Avinashi Road, Coimbatore - 641018, with a circle office at The Metropolitan Building,

Wakdewadi, SY No. 21, F.P. No. 27, Old Pune, Mumbai Highway,

Shivajinagar, Pune 411003. It is in the business of providing telecom

service, as licensed telecom service provider, having license under

Unified Access Service, post migration from CMTS under new No. 842-

1019/ 2008-AS-IV w.e.f. 6th November 2008, for the entire state of

Maharashtra & Goa, excluding Mumbai. Ms. Mohanna Manjre, the

Authorized Representative of Appellant Company, had filed this

appeal against the impugned order, dated 12.01.2015 of Ld.

Adjudicating Officer, Principle Secretary, Information Technology,

Government of Maharashtra, Shri Rajesh Aggarwal, passed in

Complaint No. 26/2013, whereby, Appellant was directed to make

payment of compensation, in the tune of Rs. 10 Lakhs, to the

Complainant, who is Respondent No. 2 in this Appeal. Complainant 11 i.e., Respondent No. 2 of this Appeal, is registered as a subscriber of

 Appellant, as an individual subscriber on 29th July 2009, by way of

 customer agreement form dated 29th July 2009, Annexure 3, and the

 documents submitted Annexure 4, to memo of appeal. There is no

 agreement, in between Respondent No. 3 and 4, or any other bank as

 well as Appellant. 7. An application was made by Respondent No. 2, through its authorized

 representative, for a post-paid corporate connection number

 9158000825, in the name of Respondent No. 2. On 04.05.2013, an

 Agreement of Franchise, was entered, in between, the Petitioner and

 Hi-Tech Cellular, Pune, for providing the Company's service of an

 initial period of 04 years, on an exclusive basis, and this Franchisee

 under the agreement, was to be responsible for abiding prevailing

 Laws, Acts and Legislation, Rules framed thereunder. As per

 agreement, Franchisee shall also develop and maintain customer

 competence and satisfaction. 8. Certain person, holding himself as the Authorized Representative of

 Complainant, Suhas Enterprises, Respondent No. 2 of present Appeal,

 visited Hi-Tech Cellular at Shop No. 2 and 3, Ramrajya Building, 12 Opposite City Bank, Near Carnival Restaurant, College Road, Nashik

 422005, which was a Franchisee store of Appellant, on 15th July 2013,

 with a request for replacement of SIM Card. Upon receipt of SIM

 replacement request, in the prescribed form, alongwith with the

 requisite documents of subscriber, annexed as Annexure 6 to memo

 of appeal, the request was duly processed and a new SIM bearing No.

 9158000825 was got issued to that person, who visited the store. This

 SIM was got activated at 11:56:52 AM IST on 17th July 2013. This

 Person was complained to be an imposter by Complainant,

 Respondent No. 2, who visited the Vodafone Store at Hirabaug, Pune

 on 17th July 2013, with a request for replacement of the SIM, and

 upon receipt of the SIM replacement request in the prescribed form

 alongwith requisite documents of subscriber, Annexure 7 to memo of

 appeal, the request was duly processed and a new SIM bearing

 number 9158000825, was got issued to Complainant and this SIM was

 got activated at 14:31:50 P.M. IST on 17th July 2013. 9. Respondent No. 2/ Complainant lodged an FIR No. 174 of 2014 with

 Datta Wadi Police Station on 25.07.2013 under Section 420 & 34 of

 I.P.C. A complaint was also got filed by Complainant Respondent No. 2 13 of Appeal, before Ld. Adjudicating Officer, as Complaint No. 26 of

 2013, under Section 43 , 43A , 46 , 61 and 72 , read with Section 85 of IT

 Act 2000, against Respondent No. 3 and 4 alongwith Appellant. 10. On 9th October 2013, Appellant, through its letter requested Cyber

 Cell, Pune and Datta Wadi Police Inspector to take appropriate action

 against the imposter for that fraud. Appellant co-operated in the

 investigation of that Cyber fraud by Inspector concerned. A request

 under Section 91 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, for producing

 few of documents was received from Datta Wadi Police Station, Pune,

 and it was replied appropriately. The Complaint, filed before

 Adjudicating Officer, was also replied by Appellant. A preliminary

 objection, regarding the maintainability of above Complaint against

 the Appellant, was also raised there at. 11.Adjudicating Officer, Principal Secretary, Information Technology,

 Government of Maharashtra, passed impugned order, dated

 12.01.2015, directing Appellant to pay compensation, in the tune of

 Rs. 10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs only) within a month and in case of

 failure, with compound interest at the rate of 12%, to be compounded

 monthly. 12.Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1641 of 2015, was filed before Hon'ble High

 Court of Delhi, by Appellant, wherein, vide order dated 23.02.2015,

 Impugned Order was got stayed on 23.02.2015. The Impugned Order

 dated 12th January 2015, is without reason, appreciation of facts and

 law, and is beyond the contention of complaint. The jurisdiction of

 Adjudicating Officer, under Section 43A , read with Section 46 , of

 Information Technology Act, was restricted to claims involving : 13.In the instant case, Appellant, being a Cellular Service provider, was

 not handling the sensitive personal information, the unauthorized 15 access of which caused the wrongful loss to Respondent No. 2, nor it

was negligent in implementing and maintaining reasonable security

practices and procedures, as prescribed by Section 43A of the Act,

read with Rule 8 therein, in respect of any computer resource, which it

owns, controls or operates. But, it was not appreciated by Ld.

Adjudicating Officer. To bring a case in respect of Section 43A of IT

Act, Complainant must show that there is sensitive personal data or

information, being possessed handled or dealt with by Appellant,

whereas, it was categorically stated that it does not possess, handle or

deal with any sensitive personal data or information. Therefore, Section 43A of the Act was having with no obligation vis-à-vis cellular

company Appellant is concerned. As per Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 , Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1933 and as per Column 2 of the

License Agreement, for provision of Unified Access Service, dated 6th

November, 2011, granted by the Department of Telecom to Appellant,

the scope of the services, the Appellant is entitled to provide is

collection, carriage, transmission and delivery of voice and/or non-

voice messages over the Licensee's network, in the designated Service

Area. Hence, the role of Telecommunication Service Provider, is

restricted to providing access to its network, to the subscribers of such 16 Telecom Service Provider, to transmit messages in real time and other

than in relation to a transit nary period. Such messages are not saved

or stored on any computer resources. The Appellant does not have

any access to the content of the message (voice or text), being

transmitted over its network and it neither stores, nor possesses, nor

handles, nor deals with the contents of above messages, which are

being transmitted over its network. Unless specifically being directed

and instructed by Government of India, under Section 5 of the Indian

Telegraph Act, 1885, the Appellant has no access or right to intercept,

in any manner, whatsoever, in respect of the messages or the content

thereof, which are being transmitted on its network. Hence, question

with regard to sensitive personal data or information, never arises in

the course of Appellant's function to provide the Services, under the

License granted to it, by the Department of Telecommunications.

There were guidelines and directions, issued by Telecommunication

Department, for observing, before issuing any mobile connection or

its activation, in circular dated 9th August, 2012, which is Annexure -

16 to the memo of Appeal. Accordingly, there is two tier mechanism,

namely, Retailer/Franchisee and Distributor. The role and 17 responsibility of the Retailer/Franchisee and the Distributor are clearly

 elucidated therein. 14. This all was adequately complied by Appellant. For seeking an order

 of compensation, under Section 43 of the Act, the Complainant must

 specifically identify the sensitive personal data or information, which

 is possessed, handled or dealt with, by Cellular Telecom Company i.e.,

 Appellant. But, it was not proved so. But Adjudicating Officer failed to

 appreciate. On the contrary, Complainant had specifically admitted

 that the only inconvenience caused to him, was the alleged non-

 receipt of intimation of the transfer of money from alleged bank

 account of complainant with bank - Respondent no. 4. In the light of

 same, Adjudicating Officer had failed to bring out any finding on the

 exact nature of sensitive personal data or information relating to

 Appellant to cause alleged loss. The only personal data or information,

 and the unauthorized access in Bank account, resulting wrongful loss

 to complainant was the one time password communicated to

 Complainant by bank. It was the negligence of the Complainant itself,

 which resulted such fraudulent transaction from his account. There

 was no contention with regard to negligence in implementing and 18 maintaining the reasonable security practices and procedure, as was

prescribed by Section 43A of the Act, read with Rule 8 of the Rules, by

Appellant. In its capacity as a Telecommunication Service Provider, the

only computer resource owned, controlled and operated by Appellant

is its equipment, hardware, software, switches, junctions installed at

switching centers, transmission centers, network operation and

control/ management centers, base stations, cell sites, radio

transmitters, media gateway controller, soft switches, call controller

etc. Whereas, under Section 43A of the Information Technology Act,

reasonable security practices and procedures means security practices

and procedures designed to protect such information from

unauthorized access, damage, use, modification, disclosure or

impairment, as may be specified in an agreement between the

parties, or as may be specified in any law, for the time being in force

and in the absence of such agreement or any law, such reasonable

security practices and procedures, as may be prescribed by Central

Government, in consultation with such professional bodies or

associations, as it may deem fit. 15. So far as Appellant is concern, Clause 46.1A of the License Agreement

 for provision of Unified Access Service, dated 6th November 2011,

 granted by the Department of Telecom, to all Unified Access Service

 Licensees, as notified by the Department of Telecommunications, vide

 its letter dated 31st May 2011, mandate the implementation of the

 ISO 27001, Standard for Network Security. Hence, it was being obeyed

 by Appellant and it does not include the subscribers verification

 process, at the time of issuance or re-issuance of SIM Cards.

 Provisioned ISO Standard 27001 for Network Security, had been

 observed and this was observed by Appellant all the time. 16. Respondent No. 2 i.e., Complainant had himself stated in its pleading

 before Ld. Adjudicating Officer, that the only inconvenience caused to

 him on the account of deactivation of the Telecom Services to the SIM

 Card, inserted in the handheld device of the Complainant was to make

 enable to receive intimation at the time of alleged unauthorized

 transfer of funds from the bank accounts of Complainant, maintained

 with Respondent No. 4 bank. It is not the Complainant's case that such

 non intimation, resulted in siphoning of money or unauthorized access

 to the Complainant's account. It was the contributory negligence of 20 Complainant, which resulted such fraud, because of leak of mobile

 password, user id, password, One Time Password and other security

 layers applied by banks, while offering internet banking service, and

 this was not appreciated by Ld. Adjudicating Officer, while

 apportioning and imposing amount of compensation, in the impugned

 order. Hence, this appeal, with above prayer, for setting aside

 Impugned Order. 17. Cyber Appeal No. 18 of 2015 had been filed by Appellant, Dhanlaxmi

 Bank Limited, through its authorized signatory versus Shri Rajesh

 Aggarwal and others, against the same impugned order, dated

 12.01.2015, of Mr Rajesh Agarwal, Adjudicating Officer & Principal

 Secretary, Information Technology, Government of Maharashtra,

 passed in same complaint, between same parties, whereby, Appellant-

 Dhanlaxmi Bank, was directed to make payment of Rs. 18.00 Lakhs

 (Rupees Eighteen Lakhs only), by way of compensation, to

 Complainant, M/s Suhas Enterprises, within a month, failing which a

 compound interest @ 12%, to be compounded monthly was to be

 paid. 18.In brief, the contention of this Appellant was that Adjudicating Officer

 was not with jurisdiction to entertain complaint under Section 72 of

 the Information Technology Act, 2000, and to adjudicate under Section 46 of IT Act. No unauthorized person, in the present case, has

 secured access to any electronic record, book, register,

 correspondence, information document or other material of the

 appellant's bank, Jaipur Branch, nor disclosed the same to any other

 person. Neither Appellant Bank was involved in such activities. Hence,

 there was no jurisdiction to adjudicate against Appellant. Appellant

 Bank had never breached, the confidentiality and privacy of

 Complainant, as it was never being a bonafide account holder of the

 applicant bank branch at Jaipur, nor the complainant or the Bank of

 Maharahtra, Pune, had ever passed and/or shared any data/

 information of its own account holders with the Applicant and as such,

 the Adjudicating Officer had wrongly entertained the Complaint of

 Complainant, M/s Suhas Enterprises, under Section 72 of the Act,

 against the appellant bank. Appellant Bank was having possession,

 dealing and handling sensitive personal data and information of its

 own account holders, and it was never negligent in implementing and

 maintaining reasonable security practices and procedures, with regard 22 to those information. Hence, it never caused any wrongful loss, or

gain to any person, and was never liable to be adjudged by

Adjudicating Officer, vide Impugned Order under Section 43A of the

Act, nor it may ever be held, responsible to make payment of

compensation or damages to complainant. The Complainant had

never been a bonafide account holder of the Appellant Bank.

Appellant bank had neither been involved in handling any sensitive

and/or personal information, and/or data of the complainant.

Therefore, the question of failure to protect any of the data/

information of the Complainant, by the Appellant Bank didn't arise,

under any stretch of imagination for attracting Section 43A , of the IT

Act, 2000 for any wrongful loss to the Complainant or gainful to

someone else. That neither the Complainant, nor the Adjudicating

Officer could establish the breach or contravention on the part of

Appellant Bank. By allowing its bonafide Account Holder, to withdraw

the money, standing to his credit in the account of Appellant Bank,

ensuring the due process on the day of incidence on 17th July 2013,

neither the Appellant Bank had violated, nor disregarded any of the

relevant rules regulations and procedures, issued by the Reserve Bank

of India in such a case. 19. In brief, the fact was that on 8th September 2012, one Irfaan Ansari

 had approached Appellant's Jaipur Branch, for opening a current

 account. He applied to open the current account in the prescribed

 form of the Appellant's Bank, Jaipur Branch and submitted his

 photograph, photocopy of each of his PAN Card No. AXIPA739R,

 Ration Card for supporting documents, with a self drawn cheque from

 his own account with another bank, Karur Vysya Bank. After due

 scrutiny and verification with the originals, his current account,

 bearing no. 021806700001020 with Jaipur Branch of Dhanlaxmi Bank,

 was got opened on 17th September 2012 and cheque book containing

 cheque No. 210551 to 210570 was got issued. Before all this opening

 and issuing, KYC norms and guidelines of RBI were fully complied with. 20. This client was a premium customer of Appellant Bank since opening

 of above account. He got opened Saving Bank Account bearing No.

 021801400006999, in the month of November, 2012. This too was got

 opened under good faith and strict adherence with KYC norms. This

 account was with ATM / NEFT facility. This Irfaan Ansari, during his

 visit in July, 2013 had informed the Branch Operation Manager of the

 Appellant Bank's Jaipur Branch, that he would be expecting credit on 24 15.07.2013 and 16.07.2013, some outstanding/ pending amount from

 Pune, against sale of consignments on account of his various

 customers, which was due for a considerable period. On 17th July

 2013, the said Irfaan Ansari, again came to the Bank and enquired

 about the credit of some amount in his account from Pune, and it was

 found that an amount of Rs. 30.00 Lakhs (Rupees Thirty Lakhs Only)

 was credited to his account, through Internet banking RTGS, from

 Bank of Maharashtra, Pune at 12.16 P.M. with narration as M/s Suhas

 Enterprises and subsequently, this Irfaan Ansari was allowed to

 withdraw Rs. 20.00 Lakhs (Rupees Twenty Lakhs Only) on the same

 day by using cheque No. 210552, after verifying his PAN card and

 obtaining a purpose letter from him. 21.Further transactions were made by Irfaan Ansari subsequently, and

 those were also in good faith and strict adherence with the practice

 and procedure. But on the same day on 17th July 2013 at 2.45 P.M.

 information with regard to receipt of Rs. 30.00 Lakhs (Rupees Thirty

 Lakhs Only), in the account of Irfaan Ansari reported to be fraudulent

 by the Bank of Maharashtra, Pune and a request for freezing the same

 was received. Though, no written request or communication was 25 there till above time, but immediately on receipt of the phone call, the

 Appellant bank marked debit freeze on both the accounts of Irfaan

 Ansari i.e. current as well as saving, and only Rs. 4.00 Lakhs (Rupees

 Four Lakhs Only) could be saved, which was available at that time.

 RTGS Cell of the Appellant Bank received an email from RTGS Cell of

 Bank of Maharashtra on instructions from their Hi- Tech Agri Branch,

 Pune at 3.09 P.M on 17th July 2013 about the above fraudulent

 transfer of Rs. 30.00 Lakhs (Rupees Thirty Lakhs Only) from their

 branch to the account of Irfaan Ansari, by a fraudster and the RTGS

 Cell of the Appellant bank forwarded the said Email to them at 3.17

 P.M, and thus, before receipt of any information on the suspicious

 nature of the transaction, the customer, Irfaan Ansari could manage

 to withdraw Rs. 26.00 Lakhs (Rupees Twenty Six Lakhs Only), as stated

 above. 22.The complaint before Adjudicating Officer by Complainant under Section 46 of IT Act, 2000, was against unknown imposter, having

 unauthorized access, penetration to their bank account maintained in

 Bank of Maharashtra, Hi- Tech Agri Branch, Pune. On 17th July 2013

 and got siphoned fraudulently Rs. 79,26,000.00 (Rupees Seventy Nine 26 Lakhs Twenty Six Thousand Only) vide 08 transactions, to various

 accounts held with different Respondents, including the Appellant

 Bank. The SMS alert facility, provided by Bank of Maharashtra to its

 subscriber to receive it on registered mobile number for each online

 transaction, made in that account, was with registered mobile

 number, of subscriber Complainant and this mobile number was of

 Vodafone Essar Limited, obtained by that subscriber. There was

 contention of above Telecom Service Provider that some unknown

 person, representing himself as Authorized Representative of the

 Complainant, got SIM Card replaced on 17th July 2013 and activated

 the same and by using that SIM card, fraudulent transfer of amount of

 Rs. 79,26,000.00 (Rupees Seventy Nine Lakhs Twenty Six Thousand

 Only) was got managed. It was the connivance, between Telecom

 Service provider, in issuing duplicate SIM Card and the Bank

 concerned, which resulted this fraud. 23.The gross negligence of Vodafone, resulting the blocking of mobile

 alert of Complainant and 8 fraudulent transactions in siphoning such a

 huge amount from the Bank account of Complainant, maintained in

 Bank of Maharashtra, Pune, was established before Ld. Adjudicating 27 Officer. The failure to take reasonable security and practices by Bank

 of Maharashtra, Pune, where the account of Complainant was

 existing, was also established, because no such unusual transaction in

 a day in the tune of 8 (Eight) transactions, siphoning such a huge

 amount was communicated, either through telephone, or mobile

 number to Complainant. But this Appellant bank has been fastened

 with above adjudged liability. 24.Hence, this appeal is with above prayer for setting aside the impugned

 order. 25.The same Impugned Order, passed under same Complaint, on same

 date, by the same Adjudicating Officer, has been assailed by State

 Bank of India against M/s Suhas Enterprises & Ors in this Cyber Appeal

 No. 22 of 2015, under Section 57 of IT Act, 2000, with a prayer for

 setting aside Impugned Order, whereby, State Bank of India, present

 Appellant has been directed to pay Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs

 Only), as compensation to Complainant within One month of the

 order, and in case of failure, to pay compound interest @ 12% to be

 compounded monthly. 26.In brief, the Memo contends that Ld. Adjudicating Officer failed to

 appreciate facts and law placed before it, and has acted beyond its

 jurisdiction. He was with no jurisdiction to adjudicate against

 Appellant, under Section 46 of IT Act. No specific default, on the part

 of Appellant Bank, was there in the Complaint, nor in the evidence.

 Rather, Adjudicating Officer let off the Complainant, even after

 noticing the facts that the Complainant compromised its Internet

 Banking credentials with its Accountant and didn't use with due

 diligence, the Maker Checker Facility provided to it by its banker, Bank

 of Maharashtra. Even it let off Bank of Maharashtra, which was the

 originating bank and was fully responsible for all the amount suffered

 by Complainant. A saving account, in the name of Sumit Bablu Singh

 was got opened with the State Bank of India, Khadra Branch, Brahm

 Nagar, Sitapur Road, Lucknow on 08.03.2013. This was got opened on

 producing PAN Card No. EOXPS5580C with Reliance Post-paid bill for

 Mobile No. 9580621766, as his proof of identity and proof of address,

 with a duly filled account opening form and photograph pasted over in

 on 07.03.2013. This Applicant was got introduced by Manju Lata, who

 was account holder in this bank branch having her Account No.

 30769286753, active since 20.05.2009. Hence, this Saving Bank 29 Account, in the name of Sumit Bablu Singh, was got opened by

 Appellant Bank, after duly following the norms and procedures

 including KYC Norms. This account was got credited with amount of

 Rs.7,95,000/- (Rupees Seven Lakhs Ninety Five Thousand Only)

 through RTGS No. MAHBH13198100191 dated 17.07.2013 by M/s

 Suhas Enterprises from its account with the Bank of Maharashtra and

 this RTGS transaction was only through the Internet Banking facility

 provided to Complainant customer, having its Unique Customer ID

 number and Password. For this transfer of any amount online, needed

 customer to add payee, followed by entering confirmation code,

 received on the registered Mobile Number and/or registered email ID,

 as the case may be. Also, as an additional security, before final

 transfer, the customer also needs to enter certain special digits given

 at the back of the Bank Debit Card, indentified by unique alphabet. 27.Hence, in the present case, the said internet banking option, and all

 the security provisions were to be provided by the Respondent No. 2 -

 Bank of Maharashtra, which was to be used by respondent no. 1, with

 utmost caution and privacy of its customer ID and password. Sumit

 Bablu Singh withdrew Rs. 1000/- and Rs. 2000/- from his account, 30 through ATM at 13.59 P.M and 14.23 P.M on 17.07.2013, then after

 sought to withdraw the remaining amount Rs. 7,92,000/- (Rupees

 Seven Lakhs Ninety Two Thousand Only) from his account on the

 pretext of urgent payment to be made for a land deal, and in utmost

 precaution Officials of SBI Khadra Branch had initially declined to

 accept the withdrawal request for Rs. 7,92,000/- (Rupees Seven Lakhs

 Ninety Two Thousand Only), because of being huge amount. But as

 the account was with amount credited through RTGS, appellant Bank

 could not legally refuse the withdrawal of the above amount. Hence,

 only Rs. 3,00,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs Only), as part payment, were

 allowed to be withdrawn and remaining Rs. 4,92,000/- (Rupees Four

 Lakhs Ninety Two Thousand Only), was saved by bank. Hence, this

 Appellant Bank deserved appreciation for saving that amount. Rather,

 it was fastened with liability. 28.The SMS with regard to keeping above amount on hold was

 subsequently received and was acted upon. But by that time, Rs.

 3,03,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs Three Thousand Only) was withdrawn.

 All these facts were placed before Adjudicating Officer, but without

 going those and keeping in mind the no fault of Appellant Bank, 31 Impugned Order has been passed. Hence, this Appeal with above

 prayer, for setting aside Impugned Order, is there. 29.As all these Cyber Appeals i.e., Cyber Appeal Nos. 14, 16, 18 and 22

 of 2015 are against one and common Impugned Order, "in one and

 common set of facts, in one and common complaint case, against one

 and common order of adjudication, by one and common Adjudicating

 Officer, in various Appeals, having one and common parties, in their

 Memo as well as in initial complaint". Hence, all these appeals were

 heard together and a common judgment is being passed, with a

 direction to keep copies of this Judgment in all these Appeals

 separately. 30.A common reply to all these Appeals, have been filed by M/s Suhas

 Enterprises, the Complainant, in all these appeals, with this contention

 that all above mentioned Appeals have been filed against the

 Impugned Judgment and order dated 12.01.2015, whereby,

 Adjudicating Officer, partly allowed the Complaint filed by

 Complainant, under Section 45 , 45A, 46 , 61 , 72 read with 85 of Information Technology Act, 2000 and directed Vodafone Cellular 32 Limited to pay damages in the tune of Rs. 10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten

 Lakhs Only), Dhanlaxmi Bank to pay Rs. 18,00,000/- (Rupees Eighteen

 Lakhs Only), State Bank of India to pay Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two

 Lakhs Only), State Bank of Patiala and Punjab National Bank is to pay

 Rs. 7,50,000/- (Rupees Seven Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only) to

 Complainant, in one month of the Judgment, otherwise to pay

 compound interest @ 12% compoundable per month in addition to

 above directed amount. 31.Learned Adjudicating Officer, Principal Secretary, Information

 Technology, Government of Maharashtra, Mumbai had rightly held

 that all the Respondents had committed violation of various statutory

 guidelines and instructions issued by Reserve Bank India, in respect of

 steps to be taken and measures to be adopted by the Bank, and to

 ensure safe and secure online banking facilities. Service providers

 were negligent in issuance of duplicate SIM to the fraudsters, without

 checking the authenticity of the claim or reason for issuance of

 duplicate SIM. Appellants were responsible for the loss occasioned to

 the complainant due to their failure to implement security layer,

 regarding the Bank Account of Complainant and failure to adhere

 strict and mandatory statutory guidelines and Code issued in this 33 regard, by Reserve Bank of India, under Banking Regulation Act, 1949 read with Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 . 32.Complainant is a registered Partnership Firm, and for its business

 purpose was having cash credit account with Bank of Maharashtra,

 Pune, which had provided a login ID and default password to activate

 online banking facility. All those directions were adhered and after

 due diligence in this connection, default password was got changed.

 Online banking facility was being availed by complainant. Precautions

 were being availed. On 17.07.2013, in the Office, Complainant

 received a call from the Security Operation Center (SOC) of Bank of

 Maharashtra, informing about unnatural transaction of high value

 from his Bank Account. After going through, this was reported

 instantly with the Bank of Maharashtra, with a request for taking all

 necessary steps to stop such fraudulent unauthorized transactions

 from his above account. A request to freeze the amounts, that were

 unauthorizedly transferred to unknown banks, was also made. It was

 found that all services, like incoming calls, outgoing calls and

 messaging service of authorized mobile number of Complainant, were

 suddenly barred by Vodafone Cellular Limited, Telecom Service 34 Provider. Despite adhering to all these instructions, issued by Bank of

 Maharashtra and other undertaking, all necessary due diligence in

 connection with the activation and operation of online banking

 facility, with no fault of Complainant, these unauthorized transactions

 were committed, for which a Criminal Complaint was instantly got

 lodged on 17.07.2013, at Police Station at Pune. 33. A complaint, under Section 43 , 43A , 46 , 61 , 72A , read with Section 85 of IT Act, was got lodged before Ld. Adjudicating Officer, Principal

 Secretary, Information Technology, Mumbai as Case No. 26 of 2013,

 against the Telecom Service provider as well as Bank of Maharashtra,

 Pune, inter alia, claiming damages by way of compensation on amount

 of Rs.56,95,000/-, with a cost of this proceeding in the tune of Rs.

 11,30,000/-. It was established by Complainant, before Adjudicating

 Officer, that there is a failure on part of Telecom Service Provider, as

 well as Respondent Bank to follow and ensure compliance of Master

 Circular on KYC/Anti Money Laundering Standards/Combating

 Financing of Terrorism/ Obligation of Banks under Prevention of

 Money Laundering Act, 2002 . With failure on behalf of Vodafone 35 Cellular Limited, to follow necessary safe-guards while issuing

 duplicate SIM Card and blocking initial SIM Card of the Complainant. 34.The Banks, from whom, those money were withdrawn, were

 subsequently, added as Respondent in above Complaint and all those

 answering respondents were given notice for filing their reply. They all

 appeared and filed their reply, denying the claims raised by

 Complainant. All the replies were nothing more than a bald statement

 that all rules and procedures were adhered and complied with.

 Adjudicating Officer, after considering the facts and circumstances

 placed on record, held the defiance of Master Circular Letter, as well

 as directions by Telecom Service Provider. Thereafter, Complaint was

 partly allowed, and Telecom Service Provider, Vodafone and Banks

 were directed to make compensation payment, as per above total

 amount in the tune of Rs. 45,00,000/- (Rupees Forty Five Lakhs Only). 35.Vodafone Cellular Limited had given Mobile Cell connection to

 Complainant and undisputedly, it was a registered mobile number for

 the cash credit account of Complainant, being maintained with Bank

 of Maharashtra, Pune. It is undisputed fact that M/s Vodafone Cellular

 Limited, had blocked the SIM issued to the Complainant and a 36 duplicate SIM for the same number, was got issued and it was without

any security verification, whatsoever. A normal practice, before

issuing a duplicate SIM Card, on the ground of its lost of previous one,

a report at Police Station is a condition precedent, for entertaining

subsequent application, for replace/reissue the same. There is nothing

on record to show, any such requirement has been adhered with.

Even the simple comparison of the signature on the copy of request

form, for issuance of duplicate SIM and the signature on CAF form,

would show that two signatures are at quite different. This basic

exercise was not made, which was very well apparent on the face of it

and a duplicate SIM was issued to fraudster. The original SIM Card was

issued at Pune, while duplicate was issued at Nasik and registered

address of business place of Complainant was of Pune, having no

record of Nasik. It itself raised suspicion while issuing duplicate SIM

card and owing to this issuing and the nexus between blocking of SIM

Card, enabling Complainant not to have SMS alert, this unauthorized

financial transaction from the complainants account, thereby

siphoning huge amount could be successful. 36.State Bank of India, was to adhere with the guidelines given in Master

 Circular KYC Norms dated 02.07.2012, but it failed to obey. Sumit

 Bablu Singh, approached State Bank of India, got his account open and

 on the day money was transacted through RTGS in his account, two

 times money was withdrawn from ATM and subsequently, it was got

 withdrawn in a huge amount in one transaction. Though in previous,

 annual income status of Sumit Bablu Singh was Rs. 1,80,000/- (Rupees

 One Lakhs Eighty Thousand Only) and that in one single day, there was

 deposit of Rs. 7,95,000/- (Rupees Seven Lakhs Ninety Five Thousand

 Only) and withdrawal of this huge amount. It was never taken care of,

 whereas, for allowing to withdraw Rs. 3,00,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs

 Only) in one stroke that too in cash, there was additional precaution

 to be taken, so far as cash withdrawn was being permitted. 37.State Bank of Patiala, while opening account of Mr Saurabh Pandey,

 failed to adhere KYC Norm. No credentials of said Saurabh Pandey was

 verified or cross checked. Nor the address of Saurabh Pandey was

 physically checked. Due diligence as per clause 2.4A RC was not

 carried out by this Bank. 38.Merely account opening form and the account statement is sufficient

 to show that various suspicious transactions have been carried out,

 both in the form of deposit as well as withdrawal from the said

 account. Monthly income of the said Saurabh Pandey was said to Rs.

 20,000/- (Rupees Twenty Thousand Only) and in one single day there

 was deposit of Rs.9,50,000/- (Rupees Nine Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only).

 It itself raise suspicion and the withdrawal of that Rs. 9,50,000/-

 (Rupees Nine Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only) was also of full of suspicion.

 The authorities were never reported regarding such negligence. 39.Dhanlaxmi Bank too, failed to adhere with Master Circular regarding

 KYC norms. Even failed to obtain very basic information while opening

 the account of said Irfaan Ansari. No credentials were got verified or

 cross checked. Due diligence was also not adhered. Account opening

 form, states the monthly income of said Irfaan Ansari to be Rs.

 40,000/- (Rupess Forty Thousand Only). Anticipated level of

 transaction was Rs. 5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs Only) yet, in one

 and single day there was deposit of Rs. 30,00,000/- (Rupees Thirty

 Lakhs Only). It itself raised suspicion and withdrawal of Rs. 20,00,000/-

 (Rupees Twenty Lakhs Only) of it, was with all suspicion and 39 connivance with no report to appropriate authorities of these

 unnatural transaction. Account Statement itself shows that pre

 17.07.2013 transactions were always less than of Rs. 1,00,000/-

 (Rupees One Lakh Only) and suddenly on 17.07.2013, Rs. 30,00,000/-

 (Rupees Thirty Lakhs Only) were put in the account, and it were got

 withdrawn with huge amount. 40.There was blatant defiance of guidelines on Information Security,

 Electronic Banking Technology, Risk Management and Cyber Fraud,

 dated 29.04.2011. Banking Codes and Standard Board of India had

 issued Code of Bankers Commitment to the customers, which limits

 the extent of losses to a maximum of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten

 Thousand Only) for a customer. There had been security lapses by

 Bank of Maharashtra where Complainant was having its cash credit

 account operated. Bank of Maharashtra, Pune had blatantly violated

 various modifications, circulars, guidelines, instructions issued by

 Reserve Bank of India. The Adjudicating Officer has rightly appreciated

 the facts and evidences placed on record. 41. Section 43A of Information Technology Act, empowers the

 Adjudicating Authority to decide such cases, and pass appropriate

 orders in this regard, which was availed by Adjudicating Officer in

 Impugned Order, well in its jurisdiction. Hence, all these Appeals were

 prayed to be dismissed. 42.Having heard Learned Counsels of both side, and gone through record,

 it is apparent, that the facts of the Complaint filed before Adjudicating

 Officer, as Complaint No. 26 of 2013, is one and common, written as

 above. But, the same is being reiterated in brief, that Complainant,

 being a Registered Partnership Firm of Shri Suhas Mankame and Smt.

 Surekha Dekate, as its partner, was holding cash credit account with

 Bank of Maharashtra, Hi- Tech Agri Branch, Pune, wherein online

 banking service facility, with registered Mobile No. xxxxxx0825 of

 Complainant was provided by Vodafone Essar Limited and this was

 given as mobile number of Complainant in its above banking

 transaction account. On 17.07.2013, Complainant received a call from

 Security Operation Center of Bank of Maharashtra, Head Office at

 Pune and branch office Hi- Tech Agri Branch, Pune, informing above

 transactions of high value, through the Complainant's account. Branch 41 Manager of Bank of Maharashtra, Hi- Tech Agri Branch, Pune was

 instantly requested about this call and to take necessary steps and to

 stop such fraudulent transactions. Complainant, also submitted a

 letter to freeze the amount, where the money was transferred. 43.On 17.07.2013, all services like incoming call, outgoing call and text

 messages service of mobile number XXXXXX0825 were suddenly

 barred by Telecom Service Provider, Vodafone Essar Limited and upon

 compliant on the day, this was reported to be due to technical error in

 SIM Card. Hence, a request for new SIM Card on the same day was

 raised. It was found that Vodafone Essar Limited, without verifying

 details of unknown person, had issued new SIM Card and blocked the

 mobile phone of Complainant, unauthorizedly, enabling that third

 person to penetrate into Complainant's account and fraudulently

 transfer amount 79,26,000.00 (Rupees Seventy Nine Lakhs Twenty Six

 Thousand Only) vide 8 transactions to various accounts, held with

 different Respondents. A compliant was got lodged instantly on the

 same day of 17.07.2013 with Police Station Datta Wadi, Pune as well

 as Cyber Cell, Pune Branch. 44.This Complaint before Adjudicating Officer was also got filed on

 6th September 2013, wherein, Interim Order was issued on 14.10.2013

 and 29.10.2013, to release the frozen amount available with

 Respondent Nos. 4, 5 & 6. Rs. 79,26,000.00 (Rupees Seventy Nine

 Lakhs Twenty Six Thousand Only) was fraudulently transferred from

 Complainant's Account, was only with Rs. 31,26,000/- (Rupees Thirty

 One Lakhs Twenty six Thousand Only) recovered by freezing by

 Maharashtra Bank, Pune. Hence, compensation of an amount of Rs.

 56,95,000/- (Rupees Fifty Six Lakhs Ninety Five Thousand Only) from

 all the Respondents with interest @ 13.5% Per annum from the date

 of Complaint, till actual realization plus Rs. 11,30,000/- (Rupees Eleven

 Lakhs Thirty Thousand Only), towards the cost of proceeding and fees

 of Rs. 1,41,600/- (Rupees One Lakh Forty One Thousand Six Hundred

 Only), which was paid through demand draft, was claimed. The

 notices were issued to all the opposite parties, and they had filed their

 reply with the same contention written in their memo of appeals,

 narrated at above. 45.Learned Adjudicating Officer, after hearing arguments of both side,

 came to conclusion that Respondent No. 1 and 2 i.e., Bank of

 Maharashtra Head Office and Bank of Maharashtra Hi tech Agri 43 Branch, Pune were quite proactive in this case. The fraud was brought

to the notice of the Complainant by their Security Operation Center.

They informed the complainant that large amount of fund is taken out

from the Complainant's bank account. Respondent No. 4, Dhanlaxmi

bank had been extremely lax with its procedures. Huge sum of Rs.

30,00,000/- came into fraudster's account and within 15 mins, it

allowed Rs. 20,00,000/- to withdraw in cash, which speaks of not only

negligent, but also complicity. All other Respondent Banks have also

failed to adhere strong KYC norms to prevent cyber crimes and also

violated circular regarding Money Mule Accounts by not taking

sufficient precautions in this regard. Hence, a order was to pay by

Respondent No. 4 (Dhanlaxmi Bank), Respondent No. 5 (State Bank of

India), Respondent No. 6 (State Bank of Patiala) and Respondent No. 7

(Punjab National Bank), damages to the tune of Rs. 18,00,000/-

(Rupees Eighteen Lakhs Only), Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs Only),

Rs. 7,50,000/- (Rupees Seven Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only), and Rs.

7,50,000/- (Rupees Seven Lakhs Fifty Thousand Only) respectively by

way of compensation to the Complainant within a month of above

order, failing which compound interest @ 12% compoundable per

month was to be paid. Vodafone i.e. Respondent No. 3 was held to 44 have committed failure to take reasonable Security Practices and

 Procedure, with defiance of established guidelines, before issuing

 duplicate SIM Card and permitting to access sensitive personal data

 and information of the Complainant, to an authorized person,

 resulting this wrongful loss to the Complainant and held liable under Section 43A of the IT Act, with a direction to pay damage in the tune

 of Rs. 10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs Only), by way of compensation

 to the Complainant, with interest of 12%, per month compoundable. 46.The very objection, raised before Adjudicating Officer and before this

 Appellate Tribunal, by Appellant Vodafone India Ltd., relates with this

 contention that it was not holding any sensitive personal information,

 the unauthorised access of which has caused any wrongful loss to the

 complainant. It had never been negligent in implementing and

 maintaining reasonable security practices and procedures, prescribed

 by Section 43A of IT Act, 2000, read with Rule 8 of Rules, in respect of

 any computer resource, which it owns, controls or operates. Rather,

 Appellant acts as merely a conduit between two parties and it had

 only acted as a conduit between complainant and its Bank, providing

 net banking. It was with a limited role of facilitation of services to its 45 subscriber and customers. But Ld. Adjudicating Officer failed to

consider the submissions made before it and it was very well objected

there at that complaint was not maintainable against any Telecom

Service Provider. To bring a case under Section of 43 A of the IT Act , a

complainant must show that there was a sensitive personal data or

information, being possessed, handled or dealt with by Telecom

Service Provider. Whereas, it was categorically denied in its reply

before Adjudicating Officer. The cellular service, provided by

Appellant, involves carriage of voice and data of its subscribers, from

one end to another, within or outside its network. For this purpose,

the service provider is required to establish a cellular mobile network,

which comprises of a Mobile Switching Centre that is, simply a brain of

network and this Mobile Switching Centre is connected to Base

Station Controllers, located across the service area, either through

wireless signals, emitted through the cellular antennas, installed by

various service providers, at both the ends, or through optical fibers,

and this Base Station Controllers are connected to Base Trans-receiver

Stations (BTS), located at different locations, either through wireless

signals emitted through cellular antennas, installed at both the ends

or through optical fibres. It is these BTSs, whereupon antennas are 46 installed, which emit and receive wireless signals, to and fro, between

 a person availing Cellular Mobile Telephony Services, through its

 Subscribers Identity Module Card (SIM card), which is

 inserted/installed in the handset by subscriber. 47.The same defence was there in the same words in previously decided Cyber Appeal No. 5 of 2018, Vodafone Idea Limited vs. Shri Sandeep

 Singhal and another , as well as decided by this Tribunal itself, in Cyber

 Appeal No. 6 of 2014 Vodafone India Ltd. vs. Mr.Prashant

 Mahadeorao Buradkar And Ors , each of the point of defence, taken in

 reply, before Adjudicating Officer in above complaint, filed by

 Mr.Prashant Mahadeorao Buradkar and others, before same

 Adjudicating Officer and raised before this Appellate Tribunal, were

 alike to the present appeal and these legal questions have been

 decided by the then Appellate Tribunal, as well as present Appellate

 Tribunal, by an elaborate and considered judgment. 48.Accordingly, all these issues raised, are settled by this Tribunal,

 holding the position that Telecom Service Provider i.e. Vodafone, in

 present Appeals, controls and operates SIM card carrying the

 customer's personal data and information, which, in mobile 47 technology driven world, facilitates personal business and financial

 transaction process. 49.The full form of SIM card suggests that it is Subscribers Information

 Module, thereby meaning that the entire information of the

 subscriber is controlled by the same. The entire business of the mobile

 operators critically depends on use of vast amount of data both,

 personal and business related, transacted over mobile platform, and

 constitutes the core of the profits of these operators. The customers

 are using mobile phones to facilitate their business and to share

 sensitive business data and information related to their business

 activities. The sensitive personal data and information, in the present

 case, is the SIM card along with the proof of identity, signature and

 alternate phone number of the customer that are fed in the system

 database of Telecom Company. Appellant, Telecom Company

 collected the sensitive and personal information from the

 complainant/subscriber/customer, before any services, post-paid or

 pre-paid, are provided. Telecom Company is the custodian of such

 sensitive and personal information, which includes photo

 identification, signature, alternate phone number, etc., of the

 customer and the above mobile number was got deactivated 48 suddenly. The SMS alert could not be received by complainant and

 this huge siphoning by unauthorised access to the bank account of

 complainant was there. It was fully proved that the Telecom Company

 was negligent in issuing the replaced SIM card to the fraudsters by

 allowing the access to the sensitive personal data and information,

 provided by complainant, at the time of obtaining its mobile number.

 It was held in those previously decided appeals, wherein, likewise

 present one, Adjudicating Officer had held that there was direct nexus

 between blocking of SIM card of the complainant and issuance of

 duplicate SIM card to the fraudsters, resulting unauthorised financial

 transaction from the account of complainant. This Appellate Tribunal

 had categorically held that the importance of mobile number for use

 in financial transactions and other sensitive transactions is growing by

 leaps and bounds and it is not a secret to Telecom Service Provider,

 like Vodafone. They earn huge revenue from such very use of mobile

 phones. The significance of SIM or a duplicate SIM can best be

 understood by such service provider. 50.In this particular case, bank established that not only bank transaction

 alerts, but even OTP were sent to registered mobile number, but in 49 fact, it went to the duplicate SIM card holder, 'fraudster' and this

 duplicate SIM card was managed to be issued, purely on account of

 negligence, boarding on connivance and laxity in maintaining

 reasonable security measures and practices, and by ignoring the

 standard procedures for verification of documents, for replacement of

 SIM card with the original documents and the data available in CAF of

 original SIM owner. But if such duplicate SIM was not issued to the

 fraudsters, the unauthorised financial transactions were not possible.

 The fraud could still be prevented had Vodafone not blocked the

 original SIM card of the complainant, without contacting original SIM

 owner. 51.This prevented the complainant from getting alerts in respect of

 unauthorised transactions from the bank account. The security

 measure of Vodafone was hopelessly inadequate. Hence, Vodafone

 was liable under Section 43(g) and 43A of IT Act and this law held by

 this Tribunal repeatedly stands good regarding the facts and

 circumstances of the present Cyber Appeal. The Adjudicating Officer

 had held liability of Vodafone India Ltd. on the basis of facts and law

 placed before it on record. 52.There is nothing erroneous, requiring any interference by this

 Appellate Tribunal. Accordingly, Cyber Appeal No. 14 of 2015 merits

 its dismissal with costs. 53.The Adjudicating Officer has held that respondent nos. 1 and 2, i.e.

 Bank of Maharashtra, Head Office, Pune and its Branch Office Hi Tech

 Agri Branch, Pune was pro active in the case. And this fraud was

 brought to the notice of complainant by their Security Operation

 Centre. By informing complainant that large amount of funds was

 taken out from the complainant's bank account and this fraud came in

 the light on the basis of this vigilance of that bank, which instantly on

 the same day of occurrence, communicated the complainant and this

 action was taken into the motion. No appeal by Bank of Maharashtra

 is there. Hence, with regard to liability or negligence of this bank, no

 comment is required to be made by this Appellate Tribunal. 54.So far as respondent no. 4, i.e. Dhanlaxmi Bank, is concerned, it is very

 well apparent on the basis of pleadings, as well as evidence, and in the

 argument that in one stroke, Rs. 30 lakhs were transacted in account

 of Irfan Ansari and this was through RTGS at 12.16 pm on 17.7.2013. 51 Rs. 20 lakhs were withdrawn on the same day within 16 minutes. This

 unusual transaction was permitted by the officer of Dhanlaxmi Bank

 without adhering to KYC norm to prevent cyber crimes as well as

 circular regarding Money Mule A/c by not taking sufficient precaution

 in this regard. There was a communication received with regard to

 fraudulent RTGS by Dhanlaxmi Bank on the same day of transaction by

 3.30 pm. But, in between, huge money was siphoned. This itself was

 unusual transaction, nor cared or interfered by bank. The judgment of

 Adjudicating Officer is in accordance with the law and facts, placed

 before it, and merits, no interference by this Appellant Tribunal. 55.The very argument of learned counsel for State Bank of Patiala was

 that an instant action was taken after having the freeze request, but

 the amount lying could only be freezed and subsequently, transferred.

 Learned Adjudicating Officer has held about the KYC norms and Anti

 Money Laundering Standards, Combating of financing of

 terrorism/Obligation of Banks under PMLA, 2002 with Master Circular

 issued to banks regarding above subject, on 2nd July 2012 and it was

 there that appellant banks were at failure with violation of para 2.8 of 52 the circular, regarding money mule account, by not taking sufficient

 precautions in this regard. 56.Withdrawal of huge amounts from the mule accounts in a short period

 after receipt of money through RTGS, and withdrawal in form of cash,

 without any suspicion or taking of action, as per guidelines, sensing

 fraud in net banking, is apparently there on record. The transactions

 recorded in statement of account of those account holders, through

 which money was siphoned, reveals that their annual income range

 and the mode of operation, previous to that fraudulent withdrawal,

 were entirely unusual than the fraudulent withdrawn. There was no

 consonance at all, which can be said to be of not any nature creating

 any suspicion, but no suspicion with regard to fraud or action

 regarding fraud suspected to be, given in above guideline, was taken

 by concerned bank authorities. Rather, cash withdrawal, much above

 the prescribed limit from those mule accounts was permitted. Hence,

 the argument raised by learned counsels for banks are of no support

 in their contention, rather the judgment of Adjudicating Authority,

 impugned in these Appeals, were in accordance with law and facts,

 placed before Adjudicating Officer. 57. Hence, all Appeals merit their dismissal with costs. 58.Accordingly, all these Cyber Appeals are being dismissed with cost. 59. Let a copy of this judgment and order be kept in all the files of Cyber

 Appeals separately. ....................... (Justice Ram Krishna Gautam)
 Member
25.9.2024
/NC/