By way of filing the captioned revision application under Section
 438 read with Section 442 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita,
 2023 (for short BNSS, 2023), the petitioner seeks to challenge order dated
 24.10.2024 passed below Exhibit-20 in ACB Special Case No.2 of 2024
 by the Court of learned Special Judge (ACB) and Principle Session
 Judge, Junagadh whereby the said application filed under Section 239 of
 the Code of Criminal Procedure (for short seeking to discharge from the
 alleged charges came to be rejected. 2. The case of the petitioner as emerging from the FIR are that on
 19.01.2024, when original complainant was on duty, he received a letter
 dated 19.01.2024 from one Mr.Kartik Bhanderi that his account was
 freeze by Cyber Crime Cell Junagadh and when he requested to defreeze
 his account to accused no.1 and 3 as named in the FIR, they refused get
 his account defreeze and demanded Rs.25 Lacs in lieu of getting the
 account defreeze and thus complaint was registered followed by the
 inquiry. It is further alleged in the FIR that said Mr.Kartik Bhanderi tried
 to get defreeze his bank account and therefore, he called Cyber Crime
 Cell, Junagadh in the first week of January, 2024 who in turn was
 informed by the concerned officer that he was required to visit Junagadh.
 It is also alleged that said Mr.Kartik Bhanderi came to Junagadh from
 Bangalore on 14.01.2024 and visited office of Cyber Crime Cell on
 16.01.2024 and met accused no. 3 as per FIR. It is further alleged that
 accused no. 3 met Mr.Kartik Bhanderi and informed him that there are
 transaction in Crores of Rupees from your account and he has to inform
 about the same to E.D. It is alleged that said Mr.Kartik Bhanderi also
 informed accused no. 3 that he is ready to give Rs.4.00 to Rs.5.00 Lakhs
 to defreeze his account; but accused no. 3 denied and thereafter accused
 no. 3 informed Mr.Kartik Bhanderi that accused No.1 is here and he
 wants to meet him. Accused No.1 asked Mr.Kartik Bhanderi to follow the
 instructions given by accused no. 3. It is further alleged that accused no. 1
 has demanded Rs.25 lakhs to defreeze his account; but Mr.Bhanderi
 denied and sent a letter to the superior authority and upon which inquiry
 stood started by the complainant. and statements were also recorded of different persons and accused no.3
 informed that on 17.11.2023, accused no.1 called him and informed him
 that he has sent 3 Excel Sheets on his WhatsApp, which includes the
 details of different Bank Accounts which is given by the present
 petitioner to him and he followed the instructions given by the accused
 no.1. It is also alleged that after inquiry the complainant came to
 conclusion that present accused no.1 and 3 misused their post and freeze
 total 335 accounts as per the secret information given by the applicant
 and on the basis of aforesaid allegations, the FIR in question was
 registered with the B-Division Police Station for the offences punishable
 under Sections 167 , 465 , 467 , 471 , 385 , 389 , 114 and 120-B of the Indian
 Penal Code and under Sections 7 and 12 of the Prevention of Corruption
 Act, 1988. 2.3 The investigation culminated by submission of charge-sheet came
 to be filed for the offences punishable under Sections 385 , 389 , 114 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and under Sections 7 and 12 of the
 Prevention of Corruption Act. where the present petitioner alongwith co-
 accused came to be arrayed as accused in the Special ACB Case No.2 of
 2024. 3. In the above factual background, the petitioner-org. accused
 preferred an application under Section 239 of the Code seeking to
 discharge from the array of the accused, the learned Special Judge,
 alleged offence which after hearing the learned advocates appearing for
 the respective parties, rejected the said application. Hence, this revision. 4. Learned Advocate appearing for the petitioner Mr.Kansara has
 submitted that the impugned order passed by the learned Court below is
 grossly illegal and without considering the material placed before the
 Court. He has further submitted that the learned Court below has erred in
 holding that prima facie there are sufficient material / evidence available
 on record of the case to proceed further with the trial against the
 petitioner and thereby committed error in refusing to discharge the
 petitioner from the alleged charges. He has further submitted that the
 learned Court below appears to have gone into the aspect of gravity of
 evidence on record, ignoring the aspect of sufficient of material to
 prosecute the petitioner, which was the basic requirement and therefore,
 he would submit that the impugned order may be quashed and set aside. 4.1 Learned advocate for the petitioner while referring to the grounds
 agitated in the memo of revision application would submit that neither
 any document nor any material in the form of statement of the
 independent witnesses to show the prima facie involvement of the
 petitioner is placed with the final report to show the involvement of the
 petitioner insofar as the offence punishable under Section 12 of the
 Prevention of Corruption Act which defines abatement in the commission
 offence. 4.2 Learned advocate for the petitioner has further submitted that if the
 final report with the documents / statement placed therewith is examined,
 no prima facie case against the petitioner is made out to attract the
 ingredients of the alleged offences and therefore, the applicant is required Page 4 of 20 Uploaded by SOMPURA MANISHKUMAR JYOTINDRA(HC00189) on Fri Oct 03 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Oct 04 11:29:03 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined

 to be discharged while allowing the application filed under Section 239 of
 the Code. Learned advocate for the petitioner has further submitted that
 the material placed with the final report in the form of charge-sheet does
 not reveal the involvement of the petitioner in the alleged offence and
 therefore, he would submit that if the petitioner would put to trial, it
 would be nothing but unnecessary harassment to the petitioner who
 otherwise is not involved in the alleged offence. 4.3 Learned advocate for the petitioner would submit that if the FIR
 and the final report in the form of charge-sheet is read together, prima
 facie, nowhere the direct involvement of the petitioner is found. It is
 submitted that present petitioner has nothing to do with the main
 perpetrators and therefore, the charges as to the applicant being the part
 of conspiracy hatched amongst the co-accused and also getting prepared
 the Excel Sheet containing the details of number of accounts, etc., and on
 having sense the same was destroyed, appears to be no substance and
 refused to have abated the main perpetrators in the commission of the
 crime in question as alleged by the prosecution. 4.4 Learned advocate for the petitioner - org. accused has referred to
 the relevant provisions of the IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act
 with which the petitioner has been alleged to have been charged and
 submitted that none of the charges as alleged against the petitioner is
 prima facie found to have any substance to connect the accused with the
 crime in question and therefore, in absence of any prima facie material,
 the petitioner may not be put to trial and he may be discharged from the
 alleged charges. accused that reliance placed upon by the accused on several decisions
 have not been dealt with by the learned Court below while rejecting the
 discharge application. 4.6 By making the above submissions, learned advocate for the
 petitioner would submit to allow this petition and to discharge the
 petitioner - accused from the array of the accused. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT: 5. On the other hand, learned APP Mr.H K Patel appearing for the
 respondent - State would submit that considering the allegations and
 charges levelled against the petitioner - org. accused, the petitioner may
 be put to trial as the Investigating Agency after found prima facie
 material against the petitioner - org. accused filed the charge-sheet and
 same has been culminated into registration of the Special Case. 5.1 Learned APP while taking this Court through the reasoning
 assigned by the learned Court below, as also the statements of the several
 witnesses recorded during the course of investigation has submitted that it
 speaks volume as to the involvement of the petitioner-accused. While
 referring to the statement of witness - Shreyaben d/o Subhashbhai Tiwari
 who has stated that she was serving in the Call Center viz., Friendship
 Club of the petitioner-accused and at the instance of the petitioner -
 accused, she had prepared the information of the bank accounts of 619
 Bookies in the Excel Sheet and forwarded it to the petitioner-accused Page 6 of 20 Uploaded by SOMPURA MANISHKUMAR JYOTINDRA(HC00189) on Fri Oct 03 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Oct 04 11:29:03 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined

 and thereafter in presence of the petitioner-accused, the said mobile
 phone was destroyed at Bandra, Mumbai by throwing it into he sea. 5.2 Learned APP Mr.Patel has further submitted that entire
 investigation carried out by the IO shows sufficient material to establish
 the prima facie involvement of the petitioner - accused in the crime in
 question and on the basis thereof, the final report was submitted before
 the learned Court below. He would submit that material placed alongwith
 the final report is sufficient for framing of the charge and to conduct the
 trial against the petitioner - accused. 5.3 By making the above submissions, he would submit to dismiss the
 present revision application. 6. Heard the learned advocates appearing for the respective parties
 and examined the material placed on record. REASONS IN NUTSHELL: 7. At the outset, if the allegations made against the petitioner - org.
 accused is to be examined, it would appear that initially the complaint
 was lodged on receipt of the letter dated 19/01/2024 from one Mr.Kartik
 Bhanderi complaining that his account have been freeze by the Cyber
 Crime Cell, Junagadh and on his request to defreeze the account, the co-
 accused named in the FIR demanded amount in lieu thereof which
 resulted into the registration of the FIR. It also appears that after thorough
 inquiry being initiated and as per the statements and averments and
 allegations made by said Mr.Kartik Bhanderi, accusing the involvement Page 7 of 20 Uploaded by SOMPURA MANISHKUMAR JYOTINDRA(HC00189) on Fri Oct 03 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Oct 04 11:29:03 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined

 of the co-accused who otherwise has been given a clean-chit. Not only
 that, said Mr.Kartik Bhandri called to Cyber Crime Cell, Junagadh to
 defreeze his Bank account and he was informed to visit Junagadh Cyber
 Crime Cell and consequently, he visited and met accused No.3 and tried
 to convince his non-involvement as to the question transactions.
 However, he was threatened to be implicated into the serious offence and
 also would be arrested in the proceedings initiated with the ED which left
 with no option but to succumb to the demands of the co-accused by
 showing his readiness to give the gratification to the tune of Rs.4.00 to
 Rs.5.00 Lacs to get the account defreeze of said Mr.Bhanderi, who
 refused to succumb such demand which constrained him to sent a letter to
 the Superior authority which resulted into the conducting the preliminary
 inquiry followed by the statements having been recorded of all concerned
 where-from it appears that involvement of the present applicant is solely
 on the basis of the information shared in the form of Excel Sheets through
 his WhatsApp Chatting, which includes the details of different Bank
 Accounts shared with the main perpetrators which runs in number of
 accounts as per the secrete information shared by the present applicant
 and on the basis of aforesaid allegations, the FIR in question came to be
 registered and on the basis of the look-out notice, the present applicant
 came to be arrested. 8. Thus, from the narration of the above facts, as also the statements
 recorded during the course of investigation, as also referred too by the
 learned Court below while rejecting the discharge application, it appears
 that on the basis of the chatting on WhatsApp and screenshots shared as
 to the entries run in 300 to 400 numbers by the petitioner-accused Page 8 of 20 Uploaded by SOMPURA MANISHKUMAR JYOTINDRA(HC00189) on Fri Oct 03 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Oct 04 11:29:03 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined

 wherein the details as to the name of the Bank, IFHC Code, Name of the
 Account Holder, Account Details, name of the Sites and contact numbers
 were provided and after accumulating the said details in the Excel Sheet
 at the instance of the applicant, it was shared with the main perpetrators at
 the hands of the present petitioner-accused. It would also appear from the
 statements recorded by the Investigating Agency that after providing and
 sharing the aforesaid information to the main perpetrators, the petitioner -
 accused had destroyed the mobile phone while deleting the chatting took
 place between them. It further appears from the statements recorded of
 Ms.Shreyaben d/o Subhashbhai Tiwari, Mahnedra Mulshanker Soni,
 Rajan Ravindrabhai Dave, Mr.Ramanbhai Prahladbhai Patel,
 Mr.Kiranbhai Govindbhai Dabgar who are shown as witness in the
 charge-sheet and their statement pinches the involvement of the accused
 in the offence in question. 9. The above material would reveal that prima facie there appears to
 be ample material at least to put the petitioner-accused to trial and
 therefore, considering the said aspect, the learned Court below seems to
 have rightly rejected the discharge application. Furthermore, present
 petitioner-accused is not only involved in the offence in question; but as
 per the police report, he is found to have involved in three other different
 offices registered with different Police Station, which shows the
 antecedents aspect on the part of the petitioner - accused. LEGAL PROPOSITION OF THE CASE ON HAND: 10. As number of contentions and lapses claims to have been occurred
 in the investigation, the challenge in the form of infirmities in the Page 9 of 20 Uploaded by SOMPURA MANISHKUMAR JYOTINDRA(HC00189) on Fri Oct 03 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Oct 04 11:29:03 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined

 investigation extending the benefits to the suspect, so also the non-
 involvement of the applicant etc., have been raised, which apparently has
 no nexus to weigh at the stage of framing of the charge. However, since
 much emphasize has been laid at the hand of the applicant, while
 referring to the statements forming part of the investigation, the same are
 required to be dealt with the judiciously. 11. More so, while dealing with the application filed under Section 227
 and 239 of the Code which pertains to discharge, the scope to exercise
 such jurisdiction is very limited; wherein the Court has only to confine
 its reasoning in consonance with the material placed for consideration as
 to find out whether the case for trial has been made or not in such
 proceedings and the Court is not expected to hold a mini trial by
 evaluating the entire set of evidence. At the time of framing of the charge,
 the Court has only to consider the probative value of the evidence on
 record and is not expected to go into the merits of the case rather roots of
 the case while evaluating the same. 12. In context to the aforesaid legal aspect, the detailed application
 amalgamated in the number of contentions while weighing the value of
 the evidence on record; with the plausible defence set for by the applicant
 by way of filing the application, which runs in number of pages is a self-
 explanatory of the fact that the entire case requires to be appreciated
 judiciously; instead of expecting from the Court to conduct the mini trial,
 at the stage of deciding the application seeking discharge from the array
 of the accused, which otherwise is not permissible under the law as there
 are catena of decisions which restrains the Court to adhere to the very Page 10 of 20 Uploaded by SOMPURA MANISHKUMAR JYOTINDRA(HC00189) on Fri Oct 03 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Oct 04 11:29:03 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined

 purpose and object behind provisions of Section 239 of the Code. 13. At this stage, it would be apt to refer to the decision of the Hon'ble
 Apex Court in case of State Through Deputy Superintendent Of Police
 Versus R.Soundirarasu Etc. [2023 (6) SCC 768], where the Hon'ble
 Apex Court has in detailed discussed the issue in relation to Section 239 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has held as under: 63. In short, it means that if no prima facie case regarding the commission of Page 11 of 20 Uploaded by SOMPURA MANISHKUMAR JYOTINDRA(HC00189) on Fri Oct 03 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Oct 04 11:29:03 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined

 any offence is made out, it would amount to a charge being groundless. 64. In Century Spinning and Manufacturing Co. Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra ,
 AIR 1972 SC 545, this Court has stated about the ambit of Section 251(A)(2) of the CrPC 1898, which is in pari materia with the wordings used in Section
 239 of the CrPC as follows:- In para 15, this Court has stated as:- 65. Thus the word 'groundless', as interpreted by this Court, means that there
 is no ground for presuming that the accused has committed an offence. 66. This Court has again dealt with this aspect of the matter in Superintendent
 and Remembrancer of Legal Affairs, West Bengal v. Anil Kumar Bhunja , AIR
 1980 SC 52. This Court has stated in the said case as:- 67. The suspicion referred to by this Court must be founded upon the materials
 placed before the Magistrate which leads him to form a presumptive opinion
 as to the existence of the factual ingredients constituting the offence alleged.
 Therefore, the words "a very strong suspicion" used by this Court must not be
 a strong suspicion of a vacillating mind of a Judge. That suspicion must be Page 12 of 20 Uploaded by SOMPURA MANISHKUMAR JYOTINDRA(HC00189) on Fri Oct 03 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Oct 04 11:29:03 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined

 founded upon the materials placed before the Magistrate which leads him to
 form a presumptive opinion about the existence of the factual ingredients
 constituting the offence alleged. 68. Section 239 has to be read along with Section 240 of the CrPC. If the
 Magistrate finds that there is prima facie evidence or the material against the
 accused in support of the charge (allegations), he may frame charge in
 accordance with Section 240 of the CrPC. But if he finds that the charge (the
 allegations or imputations) made against the accused does not make out a
 prima facie case and does not furnish basis for framing charge, it will be a
 case of charge being groundless, so he has no option but to discharge the
 accused. Where the Magistrate finds that taking cognizance of the offence
 itself was contrary to any provision of law, like Section 468 of the CrPC, the
 complaint being barred by limitation, so he cannot frame the charge, he has to
 discharge the accused. Indeed, in a case where the Magistrate takes
 cognizance of an offence without taking note of Section 468 of the CrPC, the
 most appropriate stage at which the accused can plead for his discharge is the
 stage of framing the charge. He need not wait till completion of trial. The
 Magistrate will be committing no illegality in considering that question and
 discharging the accused at the stage of framing charge if the facts so justify. 69. The real test for determining whether the charge should be considered
 groundless under Section 239 of the CrPC is that whether the materials are
 such that even if unrebutted make out no case whatsoever, the accused should
 be discharged under Section 239 of the CrPC. The trial court will have to
 consider, whether the materials relied upon by the prosecution against the
 applicant herein for the purpose of framing of the charge, if unrebutted, make
 out any case at all. 70. The provisions of discharge under Section 239 of the CrPC fell for
 consideration of this Court in K. Ramakrishna and others v. State of Bihar and
 another , (2000) 8 SCC 547, and it was held that the questions regarding the
 sufficiency or reliability of the evidence to proceed further are not required to
 be considered by the trial court under Section 239 and the High Court under
 Section 482. It was observed as follows:- Such an endeavour may be justified during trial but not during the initial
 stage. 71. In the case of State by Karnataka Lokayukta, Police Station, Bengaluru v.
 M.R. Hiremath , (2019) 7 SCC 515, this Court observed and held in paragraph
 25 as under:- NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined 74. The word "ground" according to the Black's Law Dictionary connotes
 foundation or basis, and in the context of prosecution in a criminal case, it
 would be held to mean the basis for charging the accused or foundation for
 the admissibility of evidence. Seen in the context, the word "groundless" would
 connote no basis or foundation in evidence. The test which may, therefore, be
 applied for determining whether the charge should be considered groundless
 is that where the materials are such that even if unrebutted, would make out
 no case whatsoever." Thus, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that the obligation to
 discharge the accused under Section 239 of the Code arises when the
 Court concerned considers the charge against accused to be "groundless"
 and no detailed evaluation of materials or meticulous consideration of
 possible defences need be undertaken at this stage nor any exercise of
 weighing materials in golden scales is to be undertaken at this stage and
 only consideration at the stage of filing application seeking discharge
 under Section 239 of the Code is as to whether the allegation/charge is
 "groundless" or not and exercise at this stage is to be confined to
 considering police report and documents to decide whether allegations
 against accused can be said to be groundless. Here, In the present case,
 considering the police report in the form of charge-sheet, it pirma facie
 reveals that no such material is found to be "groundless" to discharge the
 petitioner from the alleged offence. Nothing sort of any material seems to
 have been shown by the petitioner - accused from material to show
 "groundless" charge alleged against him. 14. It is pertinent to note that very purpose and object of discharge as
 enumerated in provisions of Section 239 of the Code wherein the "mini
 trial" at the stage of framing of charge is not permissible; nor the Court is
 expected to go into the merits of the case. The Court is only to confined Page 15 of 20 Uploaded by SOMPURA MANISHKUMAR JYOTINDRA(HC00189) on Fri Oct 03 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Oct 04 11:29:03 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined

 as to whether a prima facie case is made out or not. As the word
 enumerated "groundless" requires a careful and objective consideration of
 the question whether a charge against the accused is "groundless" or
 whether there is a ground for presuming that he has committed an
 offence. Thus, the sum and substance of the word "groundless" means
 there must be no grounds for presuming that the accused has committed
 an offence. However, by invoking the provisions of Section 239 of the
 Code, pertains to discharge, which otherwise may very from case to case,
 is being used as an instrument rather a shield to stall the smooth
 proceedings of the trial and thereby to create an obstructions so that the
 trial could not met with its legitimate fate in time, which is not
 permissible in the eye of law. 15. In State Of Rajasthan Versus Ashok Kumar Kashyap [2021 (11)
 SCC 191], the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that High Court was required
 to consider whether a prima facie case has been made out or not and
 whether accused is required to be further tried or not at the stage of
 framing of charge and/or considering discharge application, "mini trial" NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined 10. We shall now apply the principles enunciated above to the
 present case in order to find out whether in the facts and
 circumstances of the case, the High Court was justified in
 discharging the accused for the offence under Section 7 of the PC
 Act. 11. Having considered the reasoning given by the High Court and
 the grounds which are weighed with the High Court while
 discharging the accused, we are of the opinion that the High
 Court has exceeded in its jurisdiction in exercise of the revisional
 jurisdiction and has acted beyond the scope of Section 227 / 239 Cr.P.C. While discharging the accused, the High Court has gone
 into the merits of the case and has considered whether on the
 basis of the material on record, the accused is likely to be
 convicted or not. For the aforesaid, the High Court has
 considered in detail the transcript of the conversation between
 the complainant and the accused which exercise at this stage to
 consider the discharge application and/or framing of the charge
 is not permissible at all. As rightly observed and held by the
 learned Special Judge at the stage of framing of the charge, it has
 to be seen whether or not a prima facie case is made out and the
 defence of the accused is not to be considered. After considering
 the material on record including the transcript of the
 conversation between the complainant and the accused, the
 learned Special Judge having found that there is a prima facie
 case of the alleged offence under Section 7 of the PC Act, framed
 the charge against the accused for the said offence. The High
 Court materially erred in negating the exercise of considering the
 transcript in detail and in considering whether on the basis of the
 material on record the accused is likely to be convicted for the
 offence under Section 7 of the PC Act or not. As observed
 hereinabove, the High Court was required to consider whether a
 prima facie case has been made out or not and whether the
 accused is required to be further tried or not. At the stage of
 framing of the charge and/or considering the discharge
 application, the mini trial is not permissible. At this stage, it is to
 be noted that even as per Section 7 of the PC Act, even an attempt
 constitutes an offence. Therefore, the High Court has erred
 and/or exceeded in virtually holding a mini trial at the stage of
 discharge application." Thus, in view of the aforesaid law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Page 18 of 20 Uploaded by SOMPURA MANISHKUMAR JYOTINDRA(HC00189) on Fri Oct 03 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Oct 04 11:29:03 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined

 Court, the Court is required to see as to whether a prima facie case is
 made out or not and whether the accused is required to be put to trial or
 not at the stage of framing of the charge and / or while deciding discharge
 application and it is not permissible to hold a "mini trial". No defence on
 merits is to be considered at the time of framing the charge and / or at the
 stage of deciding the discharge application. 16. Insofar as the scope to exercise the revisional power is concerned,
 it cannot be exercised in a routine or casual manner as the High Court has
 no authority to appreciate the evidence by holding a "mini trial" as has
 been held by the Hon'ble Apex Court in State Through Deputy
 Superintendent Of Police (supra) where the Hon'ble Apex Court after
 considering the decision in case of Munna Devi v. State of Rajasthan &
 Anr. , (2001) 9 SCC 631 has held in paragraph No.75 and 76 as under: 76. Thus, the revisional power cannot be exercised in a casual or
 mechanical manner. It can only be exercised to correct manifest error of
 law or procedure which would occasion injustice, if it is not corrected.
 The revisional power cannot be equated with appellate power. A
 revisional court cannot undertake meticulous examination of the Page 19 of 20 Uploaded by SOMPURA MANISHKUMAR JYOTINDRA(HC00189) on Fri Oct 03 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Oct 04 11:29:03 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.RA/1732/2024 JUDGMENT DATED: 03/10/2025

 undefined

 material on record as it is undertaken by the trial court or the appellate
 court. This power can only be exercised if there is any legal bar to the
 continuance of the proceedings or if the facts as stated in the charge-
 sheet are taken to be true on their face value and accepted in their
 entirety do not constitute the offence for which the accused has been
 charged. It is conferred to check grave error of law or procedure." 17. The learned Court below has succinctly dealt with all the aspect as
 agitated by the petitioner-accused while refusing the discharge
 application considering the factual as well as the legal position and this
 Court is in complete agreement with the said findings arrived at by the
 learned Court below denying the discharge application. 18. For the foregoing reasons and the reasons recorded by the learned
 Court below, this Court does not find any substance in the present
 revision application. Accordingly, it is dismissed. Interim-relief, if any,
 shall stand vacated forthwith. (R. T. VACHHANI, J)
 FURTHER ORDER

 After pronouncement of the aforesaid order, learned advocate
 Mr.Saiyed for the petitioner requested to extend the interim relief for a
 further period of four weeks which has been operated since November,
 2024. Having heard the learned advocate for the petitioner and examining
 the order-sheet, it appears that no such interim relief is operated and the
 interim arrangement is ordered to be made. Hence, the request for
 extending the interim relief is rejected. (R. T. VACHHANI, J)

 sompura Page 20 of 20 Uploaded by SOMPURA MANISHKUMAR JYOTINDRA(HC00189) on Fri Oct 03 2025 Downloaded on : Sat Oct 04 11:29:03 IST 2025