Date: 3rd Feb 2024, - Company Name: Housing.com - Property Location: My Home Abhra, Silpa Gram Craft Village, Madhapur, Hyderabad - Property URL on housing.com: https://housing.com/rent/[protected]sqft-1-bhk-apartment-on-rent-in-madhapur-hyd... ⇄ Fraud done by owner and assistant manager (I don't think, it is his real name and identity, but providing all the details that I have). - Name of Owner - Rajeev Singh - Mobile Number - [protected] - PAN Number - BDKPS2891H - Mobile Number of Assistant Manager - [protected] - UPI ID: [protected]@oksbi - Banking Name for this UPI ID: Badugu Vamshikar Reddy (this might be his real name) - Name on G-Pay: Suresh Kumar (or, this might be his real name) - UPI transaction ID:[protected] I have been going through properties listed in housing.com, to search for 1BHK rental flats available. I came across one property on Housing.com(https://housing.com/rent/[protected]sqft-1-bhk-apartment-on-rent-in-... ⇄ location My Home Abhra, Silpa Gram Craft Village, Madhapur, Hyderabad When I contacted the property owner Rajeev Singh through whatsapp number provided on Housing.com. the owner sent the images for flat (looked too good to be true, but My Homes is very reputed, so I fell for it), then I called him, he asked basic details about myself. I asked him when can I visit the property, at that time he mentioned that since it is a gated society, I need to have a visiting card and for issuance of visiting card, I need to pay 3, 000 rupees which will be adjusted in my rent and I need to provide my Aadhaar card and email id I was skeptical, probably knew that it is fraud, so raised this concern on call, so he sent the PAN card image and gave me his assurance. (I got played like a fool here) and so I paid the amount, he said that now the assistant manager of My Home Abhra will call me, and will ask some question for registration and will issue the visiting card on email id within next 15 minutes. I got the call from person claiming to be Assistant Manager, he then said that for visiting card, the system needs to detect a transaction, and I need to make another payment of 8, 000 rupees on same UPI ID so that system can detect it, will deduct 99 rupees as registration charges and remaining amount will be refunded after 1 min. I realized at this point that I got played and this is a fraud. When I mentioned that I already did one transaction and if the charge is 99, then payment should be of 99, he started saying same thing again and again, so I asked for refund of my 3, 000 rupees, (https://www.consumercomplaints.in/housing-com-fraud-management-and-fraud-rental... ⇄ Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (2)