This is an appeal under Section 96 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as " CPC ") challenging the
 judgment and decree dated 20.12.2018 passed by the learned
 Additional District Judge, West, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi in Civil Suit
 no. 11098/16, whereby, the suit of the appellant was dismissed as
 being barred by limitation and not maintainable. Brief factual matrix of the case 2. The appellant is the only daughter of late Shri Madan Gopal
 Trikha and late Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma. The appellant‟s mother
 was the registered owner of the property in question i.e. property
 bearing no. 6/6, South Patel Nagar, New Delhi (hereinafter referred to
 as "suit property"). Due to one reason or another, the mother of the
 appellant, Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma, started living separately from
 her husband in Delhi, while the appellant and her father were living in
 Pune. As per the appellant, Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma died intestate
 sometime in the year 1964 leaving behind her husband late Shri
 Madan Gopal Trikha and the appellant herein as her only legal heirs. 3. On 19.03.1958, an agreement was alleged to have been entered
 between late Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma and late Muni Lal Gupta,
 whereby, the suit property was sold to late Muni Lal Gupta for a
 consideration of Rs 15,000/-. 4. Thereafter, in 1966, late Muni Lal Gupta filed a suit bearing
 Civil Suit no. 359/1966 against late Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma for
 specific performance of the aforenoted agreement dated 19.03.1958.
 The said civil suit was decreed vide judgment and decree dated
 07.08.1967 and in execution proceedings, the sale deed dated
 12.11.1973 was executed in favour of late Muni Lal Gupta. 5. It transpires from the allegations that though since 1966,
 the appellant and her father, while residing in Pune, had heard
 rumours about the aforesaid alleged fraudulent transaction but they
 could not obtain any particulars to file a case. Thereafter, in 1987,
 when the appellant and her father finally came to Delhi, they
 eventually filed a civil suit bearing civil suit no. 429/1987 against late
 Muni Lal Gupta seeking the setting aside of judgment and decree
 dated 07.08.1967 passed in Civil Suit no. 359/1966 as null and void as
 it was obtained by playing fraud upon the Court. 6. Vide order dated 16.03.1992, the Trial Court had framed the
 following issues:- 7. Meanwhile, during the course of the proceedings, the defendant
 late Muni Lal Gupta had expired and an application under Order XXII
 Rule 4 CPC was filed by the appellant, however, his legal
 representatives failed to appear to contest the said suit, and the suit
 was proceeded ex-parte. Thereafter, vide judgment and decree dated
 20.09.1995, the said civil suit was decreed, and judgment and decree Signature Not Verifieddated 07.08.1967 passed in a civil suit bearing civil suit Signature no. 359/1966 Not Verified
Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:MAANAS JAJORIA
Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV -4- was set aside as nullity in law. On the basis of the said decree, the
 appellant, on 03.12.1997 filed a suit for recovery of possession of the
 suit property against the legal representatives of late Muni Lal Gupta. 8. Thereafter, an application under Order IX Rule 13 CPC was
 moved by one of the legal representatives of the late Muni Lal Gupta
 for setting aside ex-parte judgment and decree dated 20.09.1995
 passed in civil suit no. 429/1987. Vide order dated 07.11.2002, the said
 application was allowed and the judgment and decree dated
 20.09.1995 passed in civil suit no. 429/1987 was set aside, and thereby
 the Civil Suit no. 429/1987 was restored to its original position. 9. Aggrieved thereto, the appellant preferred a revision petition
 bearing C.R.P. no. 230/2003 before this Court. 10. On 04.08.2003, since the judgment and decree dated 20.09.1995
 passed in Civil Suit no. 429/1987 was set aside, therefore, the
 appellant‟s suit for recovery of possession was also dismissed as it had
 become infructuous. 11. Meanwhile, vide order dated 04.08.2003 two preliminary issues
 were framed qua limitation and bar provided under Section 34 of the
 Specific Relief Act, 1963 ("SRA"). Thereafter, on 15.11.2006, the
 revision petition filed by the appellant bearing C.R.P. no.230/2003
 was dismissed by this Court. The appellant challenged the said order
 before the Supreme Court in Special Leave Petition bearing SLP(C)
 no. 21840/2007 and vide order dated 25.04.2008, the civil suit was
 adjourned sine die with liberty to move an application for revival of
 the suit once the SLP was decided by the Supreme Court. Thereafter,
 vide order dated 13.09.2010, the said challenge was not sustained and
 SLP(C) No. 21840/2007 was also dismissed. application under Section 151 of CPC for the revival of the suit and
 vide order dated 08.07.2011, the civil suit bearing civil suit no.
 429/1987 was revived. Thereafter, on 03.10.2015, the appellant moved
 an amendment application under Order VI Rule 17 CPC seeking a
 prayer for possession of the suit property. Vide order dated
 10.06.2016, the said amendment application was allowed. 13. Aggrieved thereto, the respondents filed a C.M.(Main) No.
 1096/2016 before this Court. On 17.04.2018, this Court allowed the
 said C.M.(Main) and set aside the order dated 10.06.2016. The
 appellant assailed the said order before the Supreme Court in SLP (C)
 21253/2018 and the Supreme Court vide order dated 17.08.2018
 dismissed the said SLP. 14. Thereafter, on 20.12.2018, the Trial Court passed the impugned
 judgment and decree, whereby, both the preliminary issues
 were decided in favour of the respondents and the suit was eventually
 dismissed. Aggrieved thereto, the appellant has preferred the instant
 first appeal. Submissions on behalf of the appellant 15. Mr. Inderbir Singh Alag, learned senior counsel appearing on
 behalf of the appellant, assailed the impugned judgment on two
 fundamental counts. He submitted that the suit bearing civil suit no.
 359/1966 was filed against the dead person. 16. Learned senior counsel further submitted that in the civil suit
 bearing civil suit no. 429/1987 filed by the appellant, it was
 categorically averred that late Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma died
 intestate well before 1966 and since the suit was against a dead
 person, which is a nullity since its inception, therefore, the decree Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV -6- dated 07.08.1967 passed in civil suit no. 359/1966 was obtained
 fraudulently by late Muni Lal Gupta. He, while taking this Court to
 various paragraphs of the written statement filed by the respondents
 before the Trial Court in civil suit no. 429/1987, submitted that the
 averments made in the plaint regarding the date of the death of late
 Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma was not categorically denied by the
 respondents herein. 17. To buttress the aforesaid submission, learned senior counsel
 then placed reliance on the postulates of Order VIII Rules 3, 4, and 5 of the CPC and submitted that the aforenoted Rules provide the
 manner in which the defendant is required in law to deny a particular
 fact in the written statement and consequences of failure to follow the
 procedure on the part of the defendant. 18. On the anvil of the said Rules, learned senior counsel submitted
 that since the respondents had completely failed to deny the
 appellant's specific averment regarding the date of death of late Smt.
 Chanderkanta Sharma, therefore, the same would be tantamount to an
 admission on the part of the respondent, and hence, the judgment and
 decree dated 07.08.1967 passed in civil suit no. 359/1966 ought to
 have been declared as null and void as the suit was filed against the
 dead person. He placed reliance on the decision of the Supreme Court
 in the case of Badat v. East India Trading Co.1 . 19. Learned senior counsel further assailed the impugned judgment
 and decree on the ground that if in any case, the Trial Court believed
 that the factum of date of death of late Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma was
 not conclusively proven by the appellant then the Trial Court ought to
 have framed it as a triable issue and given the parties an opportunity to 1 AIR 1964 SC 538. lead evidence on the said aspect. In no circumstance, the Trial Court,
 without following the due procedure as prescribed under the
 provisions of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 , could decide the said
 issue. 20. Furthermore, learned senior counsel submitted that the Trial
 Court ought not to have dismissed the suit as barred by limitation as
 the question of limitation is a mixed question of law and fact. To
 substantiate this submission, he placed reliance on the decision of the
 Supreme Court in the case of Ramesh B. Desai v. Bipin Vadilal
 Mehta & Ors.2 . 21. The second prong of learned senior counsel‟s submission rests
 on the anvil of the bar expressed in the proviso to Section 34 of the
 SRA. He submitted that the Trial Court erred in dismissing the suit on
 the ground of the express bar provided under Section 34 of the SRA.
 He argued that the present suit was not filed for seeking consequential
 relief of possession as no title was claimed in the said suit. He took
 this Court through the prayer clause of the plaint and submitted that
 prayer was only limited to the declaration of the judgment and decree
 dated 07.08.1967 passed in civil suit no. 359/1966 as null and void on
 the ground of fraud. Since, there was no prayer sought for the title of
 the property, therefore, there was no question of praying for the
 consequential relief of possession. He argued that once the judgment
 and decree dated 07.08.1967 passed in civil suit no. 359/1966 is
 declared as null and void, the appellant would have other remedies
 available in law to seek title and possession of the suit property. 22. Furthermore, learned senior counsel argued that the judgment
 and decree dated 07.08.1967 passed in civil suit no. 359 of 1966 was 2 (2006) 5 SCC 638. obtained against a dead person and thus, it was nullity since its
 inception. He argued that in the case of fraud, which vitiates
 everything, a declaration is enough and no consequential relief needs
 to be asked for, if the transaction in dispute is a complete nullity and
 void from the beginning, as there is no need to set aside that which has
 no existence in the eyes of law. He placed reliance on the judgment of
 the Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case titled as Baldeo Singh v.
 Gopal Singh3 to bring force to this argument. Thus, on the anvil of the
 aforenoted submissions, the learned senior counsel submitted that
 instant appeal be allowed and the impugned judgment and decree be
 set aside. Submissions on behalf of the respondents 23. Per contra, Mr. Manoj Sharma, learned counsel appearing on
 behalf of the respondents vehemently opposed the submissions and
 argued that the impugned judgment and decree does not suffer from
 any infirmity. While taking this Court through various paragraphs of
 the impugned judgment, he submitted that the Trial Court rightly
 dismissed the suit of the appellant as it was barred by limitation and
 no consequential relief for possession was prayed for, at the time of
 institution of the suit. 24. The first prong of the respondents‟ submissions rested on the
 anvil that admittedly the original suit was filed in the year 1987 i.e.,
 after the delay of 20 years from the passing of the decree on
 07.08.1967. He submitted that as per Article 59 of the Limitation Act,
 1963 , the limitation to set aside an instrument or decree is three years,
 from the date when the factum of the impugned decree comes to the 3 AIR 1967 MP 221. knowledge of the appellant. He argued that a bare perusal of the plaint
 would solidify his contention that the appellant was very well aware of
 the decree and the only reason for the delay of more than 20 years was
 the non-furnishing of particulars of the respondents as the appellant
 was not the resident of Delhi. Based on this stance, he contended that
 by no prudent stretch of imagination, it can be countenanced that the
 appellant took more than 20 years to fetch the details of the
 respondents in order to institute a civil suit. 25. He further submitted that the Trial Court rightly recorded that
 the date of 14.02.1987 i.e., the date on which the appellant came to
 Delhi was just an afterthought to make up the lost case on the
 limitation aspect and bring the suit under the limitation. He further
 argued that the appellant was well aware of the factum of the decree
 much before 1987 and still, she chose to slumber over her rights and
 after the lapse of 20 years, she cannot be permitted under the law to
 allay any challenge to the decree. Thus, according to him, the Trial
 Court correctly dismissed the suit as barred by limitation. 26. The second prong of the respondents‟ submission rested on the
 edifice of the provisions of Section 34 of the SRA. He argued that the
 Trial Court rightly dismissed the suit as the consequential relief for
 possession was not prayed by the appellant. To substantiate his
 arguments, he took this Court through the checkered history of the
 present lis and submitted that on 03.10.2015, the appellant moved an
 application under Order VI Rule 17 CPC seeking for an amendment to
 include the consequential relief for possession. The Trial Court
 accepted the amendment application; however, this Court vide order
 dated 17.04.2018 in CM(M) 1096/2016 set aside the order amending
 the prayer. The order dated 17.04.2018 was assailed before the Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 10 - Supreme Court in SLP, which was also eventually dismissed on
 17.08.2018. 27. He argued that the rigors of Section 34 of the SRA are attracted
 in the present case and the suit simpliciter for declaration of the decree
 as null and void was not maintainable as the consequential prayer for
 possession was not claimed by the appellant. He further submits that
 the bonafide aim of Section 34 of the SRA is to avoid the multiplicity
 of proceedings and should be abided in letter and spirit. To
 substantiate his submissions, he placed reliance on the decisions of Vinay Krishna v. Keshav Chandra4 and Ram Saran v. Ganga Devi5 . 28. I have heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and
 have also given thoughtful consideration to the rival contentions
 advanced at Bar. Analysis 29. The present appeal vividly illustrates a multitude of complex
 facts, intricately entangled in a web of subtle legal intricacies. This
 intricate interplay demands careful consideration on the anvil of the
 judicial precedents and legal doctrines, as issues of fundamental
 importance emerge in the present case. Before adverting to the
 analysis of the arguments advanced by both sides, it is pertinent to
 refer to the rationale of the Trial Court as reflected in the impugned
 judgment and decree. A bare perusal of the same would indicate that
 the Trial Court on 04.08.2003 framed two preliminary issues in order
 to decide the fate of maintainability of the suit. The two preliminary
 issues as framed by the Trial Court read as under:- 30. In order to answer the first preliminary issue i.e., the issue on
 the limitation, the Trial Court referred to the averments made in the
 plaint as well as called upon the appellant to examine the aforesaid
 aspect. The Trial Court while ruling that the suit was barred by
 limitation, noted various inconsistencies from the plaint to exposit that
 the exact date of death of the appellant‟s mother was not known to the
 appellant. The Trial Court pointed out from various averments of the
 plaint that the death of the appellant‟s mother was mentioned in the
 year 1964 in paragraph no. 8 (a), 1966 in paragraph no. 9, 1964-65 in
 paragraph no. 10 of the plaint to conclude that there are glaring
 inconsistencies in the appellant‟s stand with respect to the date of
 death of her mother. Furthermore, the Trial Court recorded that the
 appellant had been hearing about the judgement and decree dated
 07.08.1967 since 1967, however, when the appellant eventually visited
 Delhi in the year 1987, the cause of action further arose and then they
 collected all the particulars and requisite documents and subsequently,
 filed the suit. Moreover, the Trial Court also called upon the appellant
 to inquire about the date of knowledge of the judgement and decree
 dated 07.08.1967, who said that she came to know for the first time
 about the said decree in the year 1982. 31. Based on the aforementioned rationale, the Trial Court decided
 the first issue against the appellant and held that for the 20 years from
 the date of passing of the decree i.e., 1962 to the filing of the suit in
 the year 1987, the appellant chose to slumber over her rights and thus, Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 12 - the suit is barred by limitation. For the sake of clarity, the rationale of
 the Trial Court in deciding the first preliminary issue is extracted as
 under:- 32. Thereafter, while examining the second issue i.e., the bar
 provided under Section 34 of the SRA, the Trial Court held that in the
 suit, the appellant only sought for declaration of judgment and decree
 dated 07.08.1967 as null and void. It held that as on the date of
 institution of the suit, the respondents were in possession of the
 property, therefore, the appellant, while instituting the suit, apart from
 seeking mere declaration ought to have prayed for the consequential
 relief of possession. The Trial Court ruled that the bar of Section 34 of
 the SRA would be applicable in the present case as the consequential
 relief of possession was not prayed while instituting the suit. Thus, the
 Trial Court dismissed the suit being barred by limitation and not
 maintainable as per Section 34 of the SRA. For the sake of clarity, the
 relevant extract of the impugned decision, wherein, the issue of
 Section 34 of SRA was decided is reproduced as under:- 33. This Court, while exercising the appellate jurisdiction under Section 96 of the CPC, shall examine the impugned order on the
 fulcrum of two fundamental issues as exposited above i.e., the issue of
 limitation and bar of Section 34 of the SRA. 34. Before dealing with the issue-wise analysis of the impugned
 order, it is essential to first delineate the contours of the regular first
 appeal as outlined in Section 96 of the CPC. This provision establishes
 a critical framework for the Appellate Court, enabling a
 comprehensive assessment of the lower Court‟s judgment.
 Understanding this framework is fundamental, as it defines the
 parameters within which the Appellate Court evaluates both the
 factual and legal aspects of the case. 35. This Court in the case of Seema Bansal v. Durga Dass Bansal6 ,
 has considered the scope of the regular first appeal and held that under
 the first appeal, the Appellate Court may reexamine the witness and
 can also call for the records of the case. The relevant paragraphs of the
 said decision read as under:- 36. Therefore, it is a settled exposition of law that an appeal is
 deemed to be a continuation of the original proceeding and in the first
 appeal, all possible avenues of re-examination of the case are available
 to the Appellate Court including, but not limited to, determining a
 case, remanding a case, framing issues and referring them to trial, to
 take on record or to direct to take on record additional evidence. The
 scope of a first appeal under Section 96 of the CPC is in stark contrast
 with the scope of the second appeal as envisaged under Section 100 of
 the CPC, whereas, the former permits a comprehensive re-examination
 of the issues arising in the case, both factual and legal, however, the
 latter is restricted to the examination of substantial questions of law
 only. 37. After taking a brief detour of the Appellate Court's scope in
 relation to the challenge presented against the impugned order, this
 Court will now undertake a thorough review of the impugned
 judgment. This analysis will revolve around the axis of two key
 preliminary issues as previously articulated, which serve as the
 foundation for impugned judgment. By focusing on these two pivotal
 points, which were framed as preliminary issues by the Trial Court,
 the Court aims to analyze the impugned judgment and decree.
 On the issue of limitation 38. The Trial Court, while dismissing the appellant‟s suit for
 declaration of setting aside the judgment and decree dated 07.08.1967,
 held that the suit was barred by limitation. While deciding this issue,
 the Trial Court placed reliance on the inconsistent stand taken by the
 appellant in the plaint. Surprisingly, the Trial Court also called upon
 the appellant during the course of arguments and inquired about as to
 when the appellant came to know about the alleged fraudulent
 transaction. 39. At this juncture, it is pertinent to note that it is settled
 enunciation of law that the question of limitation is a mixed question
 of fact and law. The Supreme Court in the case of Ramesh B. Desai
 has held that when the question of limitation is posed in a suit, it is not
 just merely the question of fact, rather it is the mixed question of fact
 and law. A plea of limitation cannot be decided as an abstract
 principle of law divorced from facts, as in every case, the starting
 point of limitation has to be ascertained which is entirely a question of
 fact. The relevant extracts of the said decision read as under :- occurring in Order VII Rule 11(d) CPC would also include the
 ground that it is barred by law of limitation has been recently
 considered by a two Judge Bench of this Court to which one of
 us was a member (Ashok Bhan J.) in Civil Appeal No. 4539 of
 2003 (Balasaria Construction Pvt. Ltd. vs. Hanuman Seva Trust
 and others) decided on 8.11.2005 and it was held: - 40. A similar view was taken by the Supreme Court in the case of Narne Rama Murthy v. Ravula Somasundram and Ors.7 , wherein,
 the question of limitation was also an inextricably mixed question of
 law and fact, and the Court held that the bar of limitation could not be
 decided without considering the related facts giving rise to such
 question. The Court in the said decision held as under:- 41. At this juncture, it is elementary to refer to the decision of the
 Supreme Court in the case of Major S.S. Khanna v. Brig . F.J.
 Dillon8, wherein, the Court held that where both the issues of fact and
 law are involved, the Trial Court shall try the issues of law first,
 leaving the issue of fact to be decided at a later stage. However, the
 Court expressed a caution that the CPC does not confer the
 jurisdiction on Courts to deal with a mixed question of fact and law
 i.e., limitation in the instant case, as a preliminary issue. The relevant
 extracts of the case read as under:- 42. In Ramesh B Desai, the Supreme Court in paragraph no. 12 has
 held that the mixed questions of facts and law should not be treated as 8 1963 SCC OnLine SC 72 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 19 - the preliminary issue. The relevant extract of the said decision reads as
 under:- 43. The Supreme Court in the decision of Nusli Neville Wadia v.
 Ivory Properties9 , held that in a case where the question of limitation
 can be decided based on admitted facts, it can be decided as a
 preliminary issue under Order XIV Rule 2(2)(b) of CPC . However,
 once the facts are disputed about limitation, the determination of the
 question of limitation cannot be made under Order XIV Rule 2(2) of
 the CPC as a preliminary issue or any other such issue of law which
 requires examination of the disputed facts. In case of dispute as to the
 facts, it is necessary to determine the facts to give a finding on a
 question of law. However, such a question cannot be decided as a
 preliminary issue. The Court further held that in a case, wherein, the
 question of jurisdiction also depends upon the proof of facts which are
 disputed, such issues cannot be decided as the preliminary issue.
 Moreover, if the question of law is dependent upon the outcome of the
 investigation of facts, then such question of law also cannot be 9 (2020) 6 SCC 557 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 20 - decided as a preliminary issue, is a settled proposition of law either
 before amendment of the CPC and post amendment in the year 1976.
 The relevant extracts of the said decision read as under:- 44. Thus, it is palpably clear that in cases where disputed facts arise
 on the aspect of limitation, and the determination of the question of
 limitation requires a mixed analysis of law and facts, the Court should
 not frame such issue as a preliminary issue. In the instant case, the
 date of the death of the appellant‟s mother is a disputed fact, which is
 incumbent to decide the question of limitation. Equally disputed is the
 date of knowledge of the decree sought to be challenged by the
 appellant, which is also crucial for the determination of the limitation
 period. Thus, in light of the peculiar factual scenario, the Trial Court
 ought not to have treated the issue of limitation as a preliminary issue.
 For, the determination of limitation was not based on patently clear
 facts or admitted facts and was contingent upon the factual
 determination of disputed facts therefore, it was not open for the Trial
 Court to render a summary finding on the aspect of limitation, without
 stepping into its core function of appreciation of evidence by sifting
 and weighing the material placed before the Court. 45. It is crystal clear from the bare perusal of the impugned order
 itself, that the Trial Court itself was not convinced with the averments
 made in the plaint due to the inconsistent stand taken by the appellant
 regarding the date of death of her mother. Thus, in order to dissuade Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 22 - any clouds of suspicion, it had called upon the appellant during the
 course of arguments. 46. At this very stage, the Trial Court committed an error by not
 following the due procedure of examination of the witness as
 sanctioned under the scheme of the CPC . It is pertinent to note that if
 the Trial Court was so concerned about the issue of limitation, in light
 of the disputed factual matrix, that it called the appellant in open court
 to inquire about the said aspect, it ought not to have made it a
 preliminary issue, rather ought to have followed the proper procedure
 by summoning the witness, recording the evidence supported by an
 affidavit under oath and also giving a due opportunity of cross-
 examination to the respondents. 47. At this point, it is pertinent to refer to the salient features
 enshrined in the CPC for recording evidence in civil cases. The
 procedural commitment lies at the core of the judicial process and
 even if the same is used to cause delays or inconvenience at times, it
 must not deter the Court from its commitment to the procedure. The
 procedure surrounding the recording of evidence enables the Court to
 delicately delve into the core issues, while giving due opportunity to
 the other side to controvert the statements made by the witness. 48. Order XVI of the CPC clearly delineates the procedure to be
 followed in the summoning and attendance of witnesses in civil cases. Order XVI Rule 2 of the CPC clearly posits that any party desirous of
 obtaining any summons for the attendance of any person shall file an
 application before the Court stating the reason and purpose for which
 the witness is proposed to be examined. Furthermore, Order XVI Rule
 3 of the CPC also gives the power to the Court to summon any Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 23 - witness, which was not even summoned by the parties earlier after
 exhibiting sufficient cause. 49. Moreover, Rules 8 to 10 of Order XVI of the CPC also depict
 the entire procedure ranging from the manner of service of summons
 to the consequences of failure to comply with the summons issued.
 Additionally, Order XVI Rule 14 of the CPC gives the power to the
 Court to call any person on its own accord, even a stranger to the suit,
 as a witness to give evidence or to produce any document in his
 possession. Consequently, Order XVI Rule 20 of the CPC also enlists
 the consequence of the refusal of a party to give evidence in Court,
 enabling the Court to pronounce judgment against him or pass any
 order in relation to the suit. For the sake of convenience, the relevant
 rules of CPC , as enunciated above, are reproduced as under:- give evidence; and any person summoned merely to produce a
 document shall be deemed to have complied with the summons if
 he causes such document to be produced instead of attending
 personally to produce the same. 7. Power to require persons present in Court to give evidence or
 produce document.--Any person present in Court may be
 required by the Court to give evidence or to produce any
 document then and there in his possession or power. *** 14. Court may of its own accord summon as witnesses strangers
 to suit.--Subject to the provisions of this Code as to attendance
 and appearance and to any law for the time being in force,
 where the Court at any time thinks it necessary 1 [to examine
 any person, including a party to the suit] and not called as a
 witness by a party to the suit, the Court may, of its own motion,
 cause such person to be summoned as a witness to give
 evidence, or to produce any document in his possession, on a
 day to be appointed, and may examine him as a witness or
 require him to produce such document. *** 20. Consequence of refusal of party to give evidence when called
 on by Court.--Where any party to a suit present in Court
 refuses, without lawful excuse, when required by the Court, to
 give evidence or to produce any document then and there in his
 possession or power, the Court may pronounce judgment against
 him or make such order in relation to the suit as it thinks fit. 21. Rules as to witnesses to apply to parties summoned.--Where
 any party to a suit is required to give evidence or to produce a
 document, the provisions as to witnesses shall apply to him so
 far as they are applicable." 50. Furthermore, Order XVIII Rule 4 CPC states that the
 examination-in-chief of a witness shall be on affidavit and the
 procedure of taking affidavit is duly enumerated in Order XIX of the
 CPC . Moreover, Section 4 of the Oaths Act, 1969 clearly stipulates
 that Oaths or affirmations shall be made by the following persons,
 namely:- any Court or person having by law or consent of parties authority
 to examine such persons or to receive evidence; (b) interpreters of questions put to, and evidence given by,
 witnesses; and (c) jurors. 51. In the present case, when the Trial Court called upon the
 appellant during the course of arguments to ascertain the date of
 knowledge of judgement and decree dated 07.08.1967, neither an
 affidavit was tendered by the appellant nor the oath was administered
 to the appellant. 52. The adherence to proper procedural standards as established by
 law is more vital for resolving issues that involve a mixed question of
 fact and law, which could not be treated as preliminary issues. It is
 essential to note that while preliminary issues can often be determined
 through a straightforward reading of the plaint, mixed questions of
 fact and law require a more nuanced approach. In such cases, it is
 imperative to follow the procedural guidelines set forth in the law.
 This ensures a thorough examination of the complexities involved,
 allowing for a fair and just resolution of the matter at hand. By
 adhering to these procedures, the Court can accurately address the
 intricacies of the case and uphold the integrity of the judicial process. 53. The discussion as exposited above clearly postulates that the
 issue of limitation in the present case is a mixed question of fact and
 law and ought not to be treated as a preliminary issue in light of the
 disputed facts of the present case. The Supreme Court in the case of Sathyanath v. Sarojamani10 , held that preliminary issues can be those
 where no evidence is required and on the basis of reading of the plaint 10 (2022) 7 SCC 644. or the applicable law, if the jurisdiction of the Court or the bar to the
 suit is made out, the Court may decide such issues with the sole
 objective for the expeditious decision. The relevant paragraph of the
 said decision reads as under:- 54. Furthermore, the Supreme Court in the case of A.
 Shanmugam v. Ariya Kshatriya Rajakula Vamsathu Madalaya
 Nandhavana Paripalanai Sangam11, held that due to the huge
 pendency of cases, at times, Courts may arrive at an erroneous
 conclusion because of false pleas, claims, defences and irrelevant
 facts. However, the Court cautions that at a later stage, when the truth
 is discovered, it is the duty of the Court to take appropriate remedial
 and preventive steps so that no one should derive benefits or
 advantages by abusing the process of law. The relevant paragraph of
 the said decision reads as under:- 55. After perusing the judicial precedents as exposited above, at this
 juncture, it is pertinent to have a brief sojourn over the facts of the
 case. After the perusal of the plaint, in paragraph no. 1, it is stated that
 late Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma died intestate well before 1966.
 Subsequently, in paragraph no. 5 of the plaint, the date of the death of
 late Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma is left blank. Thereafter, in paragraph
 8-A of the plaint, it is stated that the year of death of late Smt.
 Chanderkanta Sharma was 1964-65. 56. Furthermore, in the written statement filed by the respondents,
 there is no categorical denial of the specific averment regarding the
 date of death of late Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma and moreover, they
 have also failed to mention the exact date of death of late Smt.
 Chanderkanta Sharma. Thus, from the conjoint reading of the plaint
 and written statement, it is conspicuously evident that the factum of
 the date of death of late Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma was not clearly
 evident from the averments made in the plaint or written statement. 57. Furthermore, regarding the date of knowledge of the decree
 dated 07.08.1967, it was averred in the plaint that though the appellant
 heard the rumours about the said decree but could not file the said suit
 as she did not have the requisite particulars of the respondents.
 Thereafter, when in 1987, the appellant and her father came to Delhi,
 they collected the particulars of the respondents and eventually filed Signature Not Verified the suit. Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:MAANAS JAJORIA
Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 28 - 58. Furthermore, the appellant has also relied upon the averments
 made in the counter-affidavit filed by the respondents in SLP(C)
 21840/2007, wherein, it has been categorically stated by the
 respondents that late Smt. Chandrakanta Sharma expired at the end of
 the year 1967. However, since this counter affidavit was not brought
 on record before the Trial Court, therefore, this Court as the first
 Appellate Court, while exercising the jurisdiction under Section 96 of
 the CPC, is not inclined to consider the same. 59. Nonetheless, irrespective of the averments made in the aforesaid
 counter affidavit, a bare perusal of the plaint and written statement
 clearly stipulates that the factum of neither the date of death of late
 Smt. Chanderkanta Sharma nor the date of knowledge of decree dated
 07.08.1967 can be clearly evidenced or safely inferenced. 60. Thus, on the edifice of the exposition of law as deduced from
 judicial precedents analysed above, it is palpably evident that if the
 issue of limitation is engrossed in the complicated web of facts and
 law, in such an atypical scenario, the Court should follow the due
 procedure and not treat the said issue as a preliminary issue. The non-
 adherence to such procedure, especially in determining the question of
 limitation aspect, which is intertwined in the web of both facts and
 law, is an error committed by the Trial Court while holding that the
 suit is barred by limitation. In the peculiar factual scenario, where
 disputed questions on the pertinent factual aspects of the suit exist and
 the answers to such questions will have a fundamental bearing over
 the outcome of the entire suit, the Trial Court ought to have followed
 the due procedure as enshrined in law. The ultimate aim and objective
 of following such procedure, especially in the complicated web of
 facts, is not only to help the Trial Court to arrive at a correct solution Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 29 - but also to ultimately put a quietus to the never-ending litigation
 which may emerge from this unresolved web of factual divergences.
 Before holding that the suit is barred by limitation, the Trial Court
 should have correctly ascertained the exact date of cause of action and
 in the absence of that, the Trial Court‟s rationale suffers from
 infirmities and cannot be sustained. 61. Thus, on the conspectus of the above discussion, it is crystal
 clear that in light of the factual matrix, the Trial Court while deciding
 the question of limitation ought not to have considered it a preliminary
 issue and rather followed the proper procedure as enshrined in the
 provisions of the CPC and the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 . In the
 absence of due procedure, the Trial Court‟s finding that the suit is
 barred by the limitation holds no ground and deserves to be set aside.
 Thus, on the first count, the rationale exhibited in the impugned
 judgment and decree is held to be perverse and devoid of merit. On the issue of the bar of Section 34 , Specific Relief Act 62. As outlined previously, the reasoning of the Trial Court is based
 on two key pillars: the issue of limitation and the bar established by
 Section 34 of the SRA. For the appellant to successfully assail the
 impugned order, it is essential to navigate both these hurdles. 63. Having already addressed and overcome the first hurdle
 concerning the issue of limitation, this Court shall now examine the
 second issue. To fully understand this challenge, it is crucial to
 examine the salient features of Section 34 of the SRA. 64. Section 34 of the SRA reads as under:- 65. A bare perusal of Section 34 of the SRA clearly stipulates that
 while praying for the relief for declaration, the consequential relief
 must be prayed in the suit. The Supreme Court in the case of Venkataraja v. Vidyane Doureradjaperumal12 , after following a
 catena of decisions, examined the scope of Section 34 of the SRA and
 observed that the mere purpose of this Section is to avoid multiplicity
 of proceedings and also the loss of revenue of court fees. The Court
 further held that mere declaratory relief of title is not sufficient and
 consequential relief of possession ought to have been prayed in suit.
 The relevant extracts of the said decision read as follows:- (emphasis added) 23. The very purpose of the proviso to Section 34 of the 1963
 Act, is to avoid the multiplicity of the proceedings, and also the
 loss of revenue of court fees. When the Specific Relief Act, 1877 12 (2014) 14 SCC 502. was in force, the 9th Report of the Law Commission of India,
 1958, had suggested certain amendments in the proviso,
 according to which the plaintiff could seek declaratory relief
 without seeking any consequential relief, if he sought permission
 of the court to make his subsequent claim in another
 suit/proceedings. However, such an amendment was not
 accepted. There is no provision analogous to such suggestion in
 the 1963 Act. 24. A mere declaratory decree remains non-executable in most
 cases generally. However, there is no prohibition upon a party
 from seeking an amendment in the plaint to include the unsought
 relief, provided that it is saved by limitation. However, it is
 obligatory on the part of the defendants to raise the issue at the
 earliest. ( Vide Parkash Chand Khurana v. Harnam
 Singh [(1973) 2 SCC 484 : AIR 1973 SC 2065] and State of
 M.P. v. Mangilal Sharma [(1998) 2 SCC 510 : 1998 SCC (L&S)
 599] .) 25. In Muni Lal v. Oriental Fire & General Insurance Co.
 Ltd. [(1996) 1 SCC 90] this Court dealt with declaratory decree,
 and observed that : (SCC p. 93, para 4)
 "4. ... mere declaration without consequential relief does
 not provide the needed relief in the suit; it would be for the
 plaintiff to seek both the reliefs. The omission thereof
 mandates the court to refuse the grant of declaratory
 relief." 26. In Shakuntla Devi v. Kamla [(2005) 5 SCC 390] , this Court
 while dealing with the issue held : (SCC p. 399, para 21)
 "21. ... a declaratory decree simpliciter does not attain
 finality if it has to be used for obtaining any future decree
 like possession. In such cases, if suit for possession based
 on an earlier declaratory decree is filed, it is open to the
 defendant to establish that the declaratory decree on
 which the suit is based is not a lawful decree." 66. In the case of Union of India v. Ibrahim Uddin13 , the Supreme
 Court reiterated that the claim for the relief of declaration simpliciter
 would not be sufficient without seeking the consequential relief. The
 relevant paragraphs of the said decision reads as under:- 67. The Supreme Court in Arulmigu Chokkanatha Swamy Koil
 Trust v. Chandran14 , while reversing the High Court‟s decree, also
 observed that because of Section 34 of the SRA, the plaintiff not being
 in possession and claiming only declaratory relief, ought to have
 claimed the relief of recovery of possession. It was held that the Trial
 Court rightly dismissed the suit on the basis that the plaintiff had filed 14 (2017) 3 SCC 702 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 33 - a suit for a mere declaration without relief for recovery, which is
 clearly not maintainable. 68. In the instant case, it is the contention of the respondents that,
 the appellant has only prayed for declaration of judgment and decree
 being null and void, therefore, the Trial Court rightly dismissed the
 suit as the consequential prayer of possession was not claimed by the
 appellant. 69. In order to examine this issue as well, it is pertinent to examine
 the peculiar factual scenario canvassed in the present case. It is the
 case of the appellant that the judgement and decree dated 07.08.1967
 was obtained by playing fraud upon the Court as the suit was initiated
 against the dead person. According to the appellant, the Trial Court,
 without determining the exact date of death of the appellant‟s mother,
 could not examine the applicability of the bar of Section 34 of the
 SRA as a decree obtained by fraud is void-ab-initio and not voidable. 70. At this juncture, it is pertinent to refer to the prayer of civil suit
 no. 429/1987, which reads as under:- being a decree against a dead person b) An appropriate decree/order be passed nullifying and
 declaring as redundant the effect of the Impugned decree
 dated 7.8.1967 challenged vide the instant suit and the effect
 and operation of the sale deed dated 12.11.1973 executed
 exparte and in the absence of the Vendor before the Sub
 Registrar of Assurances, pertaining to the subject matter of
 the suit i.e. 6/6, South Patel Nagar, New Delhi; c) Such other and further relief may also be granted to the
 plaintiffs as this learned court may deem appropriate under Signature Not Verified the circumstances; Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 34 - d) Costs of the suit he also awarded to the plaintiffs. 71. The above extracted prayer clause is the genesis of the entire
 dispute which revolves around the proviso to Section 34 of the SRA.
 A bare perusal of the prayer clause would clearly posit that the
 appellant filed the said civil suit for setting aside the judgment and
 decree dated 07.08.1967 in civil suit no. 359/1966 as null and void.
 Furthermore, the appellant prayed for nullifying and declaring as
 redundant the effect and operation of the said decree and
 consequential sale deed dated 12.11.1973 which is executed ex-parte
 and in the absence of the vendor before the Sub Registrar of
 Assurances, pertaining to the subject matter of the suit property. 72. A meticulous glance at the prayer clause would suffice that the
 appellant has prayed for setting aside the judgement and decree
 07.08.1967 in civil suit no. 359/1966 on the ground of fraud played
 upon the Court as the suit was filed against the dead person. Evidently,
 the appellant had not sought for the title of the suit property in the said
 civil suit and thus, whether any question of praying for mandatory
 consequential relief of possession arises or the express bar of Section
 34 of the SRA would be called for, is the core enquiry at this stage.
 The appellant‟s case is that the present suit was for simpliciter setting
 aside of the judgement and decree dated 07.08.1967 in civil suit no.
 359/1966, and the relief of title and possession could be availed as per
 other remedies available in law. 73. Furthermore, a nuanced glance at the prayer clause would
 suffice that the relief claimed in the instant suit was not just the
 simpliciter setting aside of judgment and decree, rather it was Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 35 - contended that the judgment and decree was obtained by playing fraud
 upon the Court and thus, nullity at law and void-ab-initio. 74. In light of such startling facts and circumstances, it is incumbent
 to examine whether the bar of Section 34 of the SRA would be
 applicable while praying for declaration in a case of fraud being
 played upon the Court, in light of the peculiar factual scenario. 75. The term „fraud‟ incorporates an intention to deceive; whether it
 is from any expectation of advantage to the party himself or from the
 ill will towards the others is immaterial. The expression „fraud‟
 involves two elements, deceit and injury to the person deceived. Injury
 could be something other than mere economic loss, such as,
 deprivation of property, whether movable or immovable, deprivation
 of monetary benefit, loss of right etc., and it will include any harm
 whatever caused to any person in body, mind, reputation, or such other
 seen or unforeseen harms. In short, it could be a non-economic or non-
 pecuniary loss. An undue benefit or advantage to the deceiver, will
 almost always cause loss or detriment to the deceived. Even in those
 rare cases where there is a benefit or advantage to the deceiver, but no
 corresponding loss to the deceived, the second condition is satisfied. 76. A comprehensive definition of "fraud" is found in Black's Legal
 Dictionary, wherein it is defined as an intentional perversion of truth
 for the purpose of inducing another to rely upon it to part with some
 valuable thing belonging to him or surrender a legal right; a false
 representation of a matter of fact whether by words or by conduct, by
 false or misleading allegations, or by concealment of that which
 should have been disclosed, which deceives and is intended to deceive
 another so that he shall act upon it to his legal injury. In Concise
 Oxford Dictionary, it has been defined as criminal deception, use of Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 36 - false representation to gain unjust advantage; dishonest artifice, or
 trick. A fraud upon the Court refers to an act of eyewash in the
 absence of which, the Court would not have reached its finding and
 the effect of fraud in a judicial proceeding is drastic. 77. The Supreme Court in the case of S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu v.
 Jagannath15 , has observed that fraud avoids all judicial acts,
 ecclesiastical or temporal and it is the settled proposition of law that a
 judgment or decree obtained by playing fraud on the Court is a nullity
 and non-est in the eyes of law. Such a judgment/decree -- by the first
 Court or by the highest Court -- has to be treated as a nullity by every
 Court, whether superior or inferior. Furthermore, the Supreme Court
 also observed that in order to put an end to the litigation debacle inter
 se parties, which happened in the present case as well, the Court
 should not invoke this principle of "finality of litigation" to the extent
 that it becomes an engine of fraud in the hands of dishonest
 litigants. The relevant paragraphs of the said decision read as under:- observed Chief Justice Edward Coke of England about three
 centuries ago. It is the settled proposition of law that a judgment
 or decree obtained by playing fraud on the court is a nullity and
 non est in the eyes of law. Such a judgment/decree -- by the first
 court or by the highest court -- has to be treated as a nullity by
 every court, whether superior or inferior. It can be challenged in
 any court even in collateral proceedings. *** 5. The High Court, in our view, fell into patent error. The short
 question before the High Court was whether in the facts and
 circumstances of this case, Jagannath obtained the preliminary
 decree by playing fraud on the court. The High Court, however,
 went haywire and made observations which are wholly perverse.
 We do not agree with the High Court that "there is no legal duty
 cast upon the plaintiff to come to court with a true case and
 prove it by true evidence". The principle of "finality of
 litigation" cannot be pressed to the extent of such an absurdity 15 (1994) 1 SCC 1 Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 37 - that it becomes an engine of fraud in the hands of dishonest
 litigants. The courts of law are meant for imparting justice
 between the parties. One who comes to the court, must come
 with clean hands. We are constrained to say that more often than
 not, process of the court is being abused. Property-grabbers,
 tax-evaders, bank-loan-dodgers and other unscrupulous persons
 from all walks of life find the court-process a convenient lever to
 retain the illegal gains indefinitely. We have no hesitation to say
 that a person, who's case is based on falsehood, has no right to
 approach the court. He can be summarily thrown out at any
 stage of the litigation." 78. A fraudulent act is devoid of any legal sanctity and it carries
 within its fold such a potent weapon that vitiates every solemn act.
 Fraud and justice never dwell together. The act of deceiving the Court
 with an ulterior motive to deprive the legitimate rights of others about
 a property would render the entire transaction void-ab-initio and not
 voidable. It is pertinent to refer to the dictum laid down by the
 Supreme Court in the case of Ram Chandra Singh v. Savitri Devi and
 others16, which affirms the abovementioned rationale and furthermore,
 held that fraud is anathema to all equitable principles and any affair
 tainted with fraud cannot be perpetuated or saved by the application of
 any equitable doctrine including res judicata. The relevant paragraphs
 of the said decision read as under:- 79. The Supreme Court in Shrisht Dhawan v. Shaw Bros.17 also
 observed that fraud and collusion vitiate even the most solemn
 proceedings in any civilized system of jurisprudence. It is a
 descriptive concept of human conduct. In Indian Bank v. Satyam
 Fibres (India) (P) Ltd. 18 the Supreme Court after referring to Lazarus
 Estates Ltd. v. Beasley 19 and other cases observed that, since fraud
 affects the solemnity, regularity, and orderliness of the proceedings of
 the Court, it also amounts to an abuse of the process of the Court, that
 the Courts have inherent power to set aside an order obtained by
 practising fraud upon the Court, and that where the Court is misled by
 a party or the Court itself commits a mistake which prejudices a party,
 the Court has the inherent power to recall its order. 80. The conspectus of the analysis of precedents exposited above
 clearly elucidates that fraud vitiates everything. Any transaction which
 rests on the fulcrum of the fraud being played by deceiving the other
 party or the Court, as the case may be, is nullity in law and such
 transaction is void-ab-initio. An act of polluting the stream of justice,
 by way of fraud, cannot be condoned on the pretext of finality of
 rights, consistency, legal policy, or res judicata. For, the very essence
 of the judicial process lies in its solemn task of the discovery of truth 17 (1992) 1 SCC 534. (1996) 5 SCC 550. (1956) 1 All ER 341. and no Court could claim to have discovered the truth on the basis of
 an act of deception. 81. At this juncture, it is pertinent to analyze another facet of the
 controversy at hand i.e., a suit allegedly filed against a dead person. It
 is pertinent to refer to the latin maxim action "personalismoritur cum
 persona" which means that a personal action dies with the death of the
 person. The Supreme Court in the case of Puran Singh &Ors v. State
 Of Punjab &Ors20 , while placing reliance on the abovementioned
 Latin maxim explained the rationale of the proposition that the suit
 cannot proceed against the dead person. In the said decision , the Court
 held as under:- defendant dies and the right to sue survives, the Court, on an
 application being made in that behalf, shall cause the legal
 representatives of the deceased defendant to be made a party
 and shall proceed with the suit. If within the time prescribed
 by Article 120 of the Limitation Act, 1963 no application is made
 under sub-rule (1) of Rule 4, the suit shall abate as against the
 deceased defendant. This Rule is based not only on the sound
 principle that a suit cannot proceed against a dead person, but
 also on the principle of natural justice that if the original
 defendant is dead, then no decree can be passed against him so
 as to bind his legal representative without affording an
 opportunity to them to contest the claim of the plaintiff. Rule 9 of
 Order 22 of the Code prescribes the procedure for setting aside
 abatement." 82. In the case of Hira Lal Patni v. Kali Nath21 , the Supreme Court
 held that the validity of the decree can be challenged on the ground
 that a suit had been initiated against the dead person. The relevant
 paragraph of the said decision reads as under:- 83. The Supreme Court in the case of Ashok Transport Agency v.
 Awadhesh Kumar & Anr.22 while setting aside the impugned
 judgment held that the Executing Court correctly followed the law as
 the suit filed against the dead person is a nullity in law and thus, could
 not be executed. 84. In the case of Indana International Limited V/s. Santana
 Miguel Fernandis and Another23, the Bombay High Court has also
 followed the rationale that the suit filed against the dead person is a
 nullity in law and therefore, should not be instituted at all. The
 relevant paragraphs of the said decision read as under:- 85. This Court as well in the case of Pratap Chand Mehta v.
 Krishna Devi Mehta24 , after analysing the catena of judgements held
 that the suit filed against the dead person is a nullity in law and thus,
 the plaintiff cannot be allowed to subsequently amend the suit. The
 relevant paragraphs of the said decision read as under:- 19. In C. Muttu v. Bharath Match Works , AIR 1964 Mysore 293
 (10) relying upon Hira Lal 's case (supra) it was held that a suit
 against a dead person is a nullity. Where it is later on discovered
 that the person against whom the suit was filed was dead when it
 was filed no amendment can be allowed for substitution of
 another person. 20. In Roop Chand v. Sardar Khan, AIR 1928 Lahore 399 (11) a
 Division Bench of the Lahore High Court held that in case the
 suit had been brought against one defendant only who had
 admittedly died before the institution of the suit there was really
 no suit properly instituted and that there was nothing in the Civil
 Procedure Code to authorise a Court to allow the plaint in such
 a case to be amended by substituting the names of the
 representatives of the deceased, even though the suit had been
 instituted bona fide and in ignorance of the death of the
 defendant. The position however, is quite different where the
 deceased person is not the sole defendant but is one out of a
 large number of defendants. 21. In MunicipalCouncil v. ThazhelPuthanPuravilKunhiPathum
 ma, AIR 1933 Madras 454 (12) it was held that where the plaint
 is filed against a person who is in fact dead no application by
 way of amendment or bringing on record legal representatives
 can be validly made because the whole proceeding is void and
 has no effect whatsoever. 22. In Joginder Singh v. Krishan Lal , AIR 1977 Punjab &
 Haryana 180 (13) it was held that the question of substituting
 the legal representatives of only such a person under Order, 22
 Rule 4 can arise who was alive at the time when the suit was
 instituted and has died during the pendency of the suit. The case
 of a person who had died before the institution of the suit or the
 appeal, and who was erroneously impleaded as a party, does not
 fall within the purview of Order, 22 of the Code. Whether the
 amendment to substitute legal representatives is made under
 Order, 1 Rule 10(2) or under Section 153 CPC would not make
 any material difference. 23. In Ali Mohd Khan v. Vijay Tulsi , AIR 1986 J&K 26 (14)
 relying upon the pronouncement of the Supreme Court in Hira
 Lal 's case (supra) it was held that where a suit is filed against a
 dead person it is a nullity and the plaintiff cannot be allowed
 subsequently to amend the suit and substitute the legal Signature Not Verified representatives in place of the defendant. Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed Digitally Signed
By:MAANAS JAJORIA
Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 43 - 24. I have considered the relevant contentions of the parties. The
 contention of the learned counsel for Mr. Vishwa Nath Mehta
 has force and it should prevail. Suit cannot be filed against a
 dead person. In view of the pronouncement of the Supreme
 Court in Hira Lal 's case (supra) and in view of the various other
 High Courts relied upon by the learned counsel for Mr. Vishwa
 Nath Mehta I am of the considered opinion that the suit against
 a dead person is a nullity and the plaintiff cannot be allowed
 subsequently to amend the suit and substitute the legal
 representatives in place of the defendant. I fully agree with the
 reasoning given in these judgments." 86. Thus, on the edifice of the precedents analysed above, it is
 manifestly evident that a suit instituted against the dead person is a
 nullity in law. The case in hand revolves around the application of
 legal principles as cited above. In the facts of the case, the appellant
 filed civil suit no. 429/1987 on 10.02.1987, for setting aside the
 judgement and decree dated 07.08.1967 as null and void as it was
 obtained by playing fraud upon the Court. It is the contention of the
 appellant that civil suit no. 359/1966 was instituted against the dead
 person as at that time, the appellant‟s mother i.e., the defendant in the
 said suit had already expired. It is pertinent to note that the said suit
 proceeded ex-parte. It is the contention of the appellant that the said
 suit proceeded ex-parte because as on the date of institution of the
 suit, the appellant‟s mother had already died and thus, the judgement
 and decree dated 07.08.1967 was obtained by playing fraud upon the
 Court. 87. As exposited above, any transaction which is obtained by way
 of fraud vitiates everything. An act of obtaining an ex parte decree
 from the Court without disclosing the institution of the suit against a
 dead person is an egregious case of fraud. The suit instituted against
 the dead person is non-est in law, and if the appellant had succeeded in Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 44 - civil suit no. 429/1987, then the judgement and decree dated
 07.08.1967 shall be rendered as void-ab-initio and all consequential
 actions shall fall. Whether in a case of fraud, which vitiates everything
 and renders the decree as void-ab-initio, the bar of Section 34 of the
 SRA would be applicable, so as to necessitate the appellant to have
 prayed for the consequential relief of possession, is the decisive
 question which the Trial Court ought to have examined. 88. In order to answer this seminal question, it is pertinent to refer
 to the decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of Baldeo Singh v. Gopal Singh25 , wherein, the issue involved is the
 levy of the Court fee on the declaratory relief or consequential relief
 which ought to have been prayed. The Court referred to the decision
 of the Bombay High Court in Madanlal v. Shri Ramchandra
 Devasthanan26 and held that in cases where the transaction in dispute
 is complete nullity and void-ab-intio, then a mere declaration is
 enough and there is no need to pray for the consequential relief. The
 relevant extracts of the said decision read as under:- A Full Bench of the Patna High Court (Fazl Ali, C.J., Chatterji
 and Sinha, JJ.) laid down the following rules in Mt.
 Rupia v. BhatauMahton [AIR 1944 Pat 17.] : In that case, it was held:-- In my opinion, the dicta in the two last-mentioned cases and also
 the observations in Duttaji Parashuram's Case (supra), all of
 which have been cited with approval in Ratansingh's
 Case (supra), apply to the appellant's suit here. Recalling the
 observations in Ratansingh 's Case, that it is not the language or
 the form but the substance and the nature of the claim which is
 the crux, it must be said that although the relief clause is worded
 as mere declaratory, essentially and substantially this is a suit
 for setting aside the sale. The sale deed, being a registered
 document, is valid and operative until avoided. As the plaintiff
 seeks the relief for declaration that the sale deed is void not only
 against his rights and interest but also that it is void in toto, that
 is, against those also who executed it, the prayer for its selling
 aside and cancellation is necessarily involved." 89. On the fulcrum of the decision cited above it is evidently clear
 that if the transaction in dispute is a complete nullity and void from
 the beginning, a mere declaration is enough and there is no need to
 pray for the consequential relief. More so, in the present case, title
 itself has not been claimed in the prayer, as discussed above, therefore,
 no question arises for claiming possession. The entire rationale of such
 a stipulation is that if the decree is a nullity in the eyes of the law and
 void-ab-intitio, there is no need to pray for the consequential relief as
 such decree does not even exist in the eyes of the law since its
 inception and any title transferred on the strength of such a decree
 shall have no existence in the eyes of law. The explanation behind this
 exposition of law also lies in the conceptual difference between the
 concepts of voidness and voidability. Jurisprudentially, there is a
 marked distinction between the legal consequences attached with
 voidness and voidability. Whereas, the former strikes at the very
 foundation of the legal action and renders it non-est, null and void
 from the very beginning, the latter holds the action and its legal
 consequences as valid unless there is a declaration of voidness. In
 other words, a declaration of void-ab-initio has the effect of removing
 the foundation of the entire building and the entire structure falls
 down. For all intents and purposes, it restores the original position
 inter-se parties and operates in a retrospective sense, unless directed
 otherwise by the Court. Once it is ascertained that the basis of
 claiming a declaration is fraud, the Court needs to first arrive at a
 finding regarding the existence of fraud, which is necessarily a factual
 enquiry, and once it is so arrived at, there is no question of a
 procedural bar coming into play to protect an action based on fraud. The settled principle of „fraud vitiates everything‟ would be of no
 consequence if such a course of action is permitted and bar under
 Section 34 of the SRA is levelled. 90. In the instant case, it is the contention of the appellant that the
 judgement and decree dated 07.08.1967 was obtained by playing fraud
 upon the Court and the said suit bearing civil suit no. 359/1966 would
 be a nullity in law if it was instituted against the dead person. It is
 crystal clear that before examining the said issue, the Trial Court
 cannot arrive at the conclusion that in the absence of a consequential
 relief of possession, the suit is barred under Section 34 of the SRA.
 Moreover, the suit was filed seeking the declaration of the decree
 dated 07.08.1967 as null and void, thus, since the title was not sought
 in the present suit, therefore, the prayer to seek for the consequential
 relief of possession was not called for. 91. It is noteworthy that once the judgment and decree is declared
 as null and void-ab-initio in law, the title would automatically get
 restored in the name of the deceased (or her legal heirs) by operation
 of law and the same would be subject to devolution in accordance with
 the law. The effect of declaration of a decree being void-ab-initio
 would be to render the title and consequential ex-parte sale deed as
 null, void and non-existent from the very inception. Thus, it would
 restore the original position and the question of title, in the aftermath
 of the declaration of nullity, would no more be a question before the
 appellant and the respondents herein. It would, then, be a question
 between the legal heirs of the deceased inter-se. And thus, there was
 no basis for the consequential prayer of title or possession against the
 respondents herein as the same was neither necessitated nor available
 to the appellant. In fact, it would be absurd for a person to seek a Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 48 - declaration of nullity of a decree along with title against someone who
 has earned the title by obtaining the same decree on fraud. A
 declaration of nullity on the ground of fraud would in itself have the
 effect of resetting the clock and no claim of title would survive as the
 basis of the title has been rendered null and void. The said question of
 claiming title may arise if the respondents, in the aftermath of the
 declaration of nullity, goes on to claim the title afresh on the basis of
 the agreement to sell or otherwise, however, that would be a
 completely distinct proceeding based on a distinct cause of action. 92. A declaration sought on the basis of fraud is on a different
 footing as compared to a general declaration of right. In a case of
 fraud upon the Court, the Court becomes a stakeholder in the enquiry
 and it becomes expedient in the interest of justice to examine the
 same. Furthermore, a general declaration may not have a sweeping
 effect and consequential rights would not automatically flow from
 such a declaration, unless prayed. However, once fraud upon the Court
 is established, it takes within its sweep every consequential action
 based on such fraud and it does not matter if a certain consequence
 was envisaged or not. It happens by sheer operation of law. 93. Although, the procedural bar under Section 34 of the SRA is not
 attracted in an instant manner, it is nonetheless important to
 understand that the Court cannot lose sight of the fact that what is
 under consideration is a rule of procedure, which is manifested in
 Section 34 of the SRA. The rule manifested in the said provision is
 meant to prevent multiplicity of litigation and is intended to ensure
 that the suits instituted before the Courts are complete in all respects
 and the prayers are such that the dispute between the parties is brought
 to a quietus. It is also meant to ensure that the concern of the State Signature Not Verified Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 49 - with respect to the payment of Court fee is duly taken care of by
 preventing the parties from drafting their prayers in a clandestine
 manner or claiming their rights in a piecemeal manner. However, a
 rule of procedure is nevertheless a rule of procedure and it cannot
 disentitle the Court from enquiring into a case of fraud upon the Court. In Hamza Haji v. State of Kerala &Ors.27 , the Supreme Court has
 pertinently observed that no Court will allow itself to be used as an
 instrument of fraud and no Court, by the application of the rules of
 evidence or procedure can allow its eyes to be closed to the fact that it
 has been used as an instrument of fraud. To permit so would offend
 against that principle of substantial justice and would perpetuate an
 illegality on the strength of a procedural bar. In A.V. Papayya Sastry
 and Ors. v. Government of A.P. and Ors.28 , the Supreme Court
 observed that even after a cause has attained finality and has become
 law under Article 141 of the Constitution of India, if it is discovered
 that the finding was based on fraud, the same would stand vitiated.
 The relevant paragraph highlights the gravity of an allegation of fraud
 upon the Court and reads thus: Therefore, it has been said that a judgment, decree or order
 obtained by fraud has to be treated as nullity, whether by the
 court of first instance or by the final court. And it has to be
 treated as non est by every Court, superior or inferior." 94. Thus, the public policy underlying the power of the Court to
 declare a judgment obtained on fraud as nullity is on a higher pedestal
 than the public policy underlying Section 34 of the SRA. In the
 considered opinion of this Court, the Trial Court fell in error in not
 examining the factual question of fraud and dismissing it in a
 summary manner by applying the procedural bar under Section 34 of
 the SRA. In terms of the prayer clause of the plaint and effect of a
 finding of fraud upon the Court, as discussed above, there was no
 occasion for the appellant to have claimed any consequential relief and
 the aspect of fraud ought to have been examined on a factual basis
 before foreclosing the matter. 95. Furthermore, much reliance was placed upon the decision of
 this Court dated 17.04.2018 passed in CM (M) 1096/2016, whereby,
 the order allowing the amendment application under Order VI Rule 17
 CPC , was set aside and in light of such order which prohibits the
 appellant to amend the plaint and add the consequential relief of
 possession, the suit should not be held maintainable as per Section 34
 of the SRA. 96. It is pertinent to point out that the said order limits its analysis
 to the question of the amendment application only. It neither addresses
 the broader implications for the suit itself nor does it determine
 whether the consequential prayer for possession is necessary. The Signature Not Verifiedultimate fate of the suit was not decided by the said order.Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Digitally Signed By:MAANAS JAJORIA Signing Date:13.12.2024 By:PURUSHAINDRA
18:10:14 KUMAR KAURAV - 51 - 97. Thus, the bar under Section 34 of the SRA would not be
 applicable under the facts of the present lis. Conclusion 98. After a comprehensive and meticulous review of the applicable
 judicial precedents and a detailed examination of the two critical
 issues as outlined above, it is evident that the Trial Court reached an
 incorrect conclusion. The analysis reveals that the present suit does
 not fall within the prohibitions established by Section 34 of the SRA. 99. In view of the aforesaid, the appeal is allowed and the
 impugned judgment and decree dated 20.12.2018 passed by the
 learned Additional District Judge, West, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi in
 Civil Suit no. 11098/16 is hereby set aside. 100. Needless to state, this Court has not determined the question of
 limitation, rather only observed that the issue of limitation which is the
 mixed question of fact and law, should not be treated as a preliminary
 issue in light of the disputed factual matrix. This Court has also not
 expressed any view on the merits of the case. 101. Accordingly, the matter is remanded back to the Trial Court for
 de-novo consideration to examine the issue of limitation and/or other
 issues. The Trial Court is also directed to expedite the trial and decide
 the case not beyond 12 months from the date of receipt of this
 judgment. 102. In view of the aforesaid, the appeal is disposed of alongwith
 pending applications, if any. 103. No order as to costs.