The 1st and 2nd respondents before the Adjudicating authority, have

 filed the above civil miscellaneous appeal challenging the order passed by

 the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi in

 Cyber Appeal No.1 of 2010 and Review Application No.2 of 2019 in and

 by which, the Appellate Tribunal had modified the judgment dated

 12.04.2010 made by the Adjudicating Officer under the Information and

 Technology Act, 2000 in Petition No.2462 of 2008. 3/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 A. Facts of the case: (ii) The complainant would submit that thereafter, there was no

 proactive steps taken by the Bank. Therefore, his complaint did not yield

 the desired results. Meanwhile, the complainant had received the

 statement of account which would show that the entire sum of

 Rs.6,46,000/- was unauthorisedly transferred out of the complainant's

 account between 06th and 07th September 2007 to the credit of the 5/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 current account of the 5th respondent. It also revealed that from out of the

 above sum the Bank had adjusted a sum of Rs.35,000/- towards the

 outstanding due from the 5th respondent to the Bank and regularised

 their account. That apart, a total sum of Rs.4,60,000/- was paid out in

 cash from the account of the 5th respondent against the cheque to some

 persons. The 5th respondent thereupon retained a sum of Rs.1,50,171/-. (iii) The complainant on 24.10.2007 had lodged a complaint with

 the Police at Tuticorin, which was subsequently transferred to Cyber

 Crime PS, Chennai. Thereafter, the complainant had made a fresh

 complaint before the Cyber Crime Police. The Bank took a stand that the

 e-mail address in which the phishing had taken place was not generated

 by them. The Bank also took a stand that they are unable to reach the

 current account holder, the 5th respondent herein. The complainant

 would submit that an e-mail address within parenthesis cannot be

 changed except by an expert or with the assistance of special tools. The

 complainant strongly suspected an insider hand. The further reason for

 entertaining the above suspicion was on account of the fact that the 5th 6/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 respondent had opened an account just 3 years prior to the incident. The

 account was overdrawn and a sum of Rs.35,000/- remained outstanding.

 The last of the transaction had taken place on 01.04.2007. The

 complainant would submit that despite all these anomalies, the

 respondent-Bank has not exercised any caution when such a huge sum of

 Rs.4,60,000/- has been withdrawn on a single day within a short span of

 15 minutes. Further, the Bank has not issued its statutory messages when

 such a huge sum has been withdrawn from the complainant's account

 where the normal transaction for a month did not exceed Rs.50,000/-

 Further, the Bank had not come clear about the 5th respondent and

 interestingly, no police complaint had been lodged by the Bank. The

 Bank has also enriched itself with this fraudulent act by appropriating a

 portion of money to their outstanding dues from the 5th respondent. The

 complainant would further submit that the Bank had not complied with

 the Information Security Prescription mandated by the Reserve Bank of

 India, vide its circular dated 14.06.2001. The complainant would further

 state that there was a gross negligence on the part of the Bank and

 contended that the entire proceedings violates Section 66 of the 7/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 Information Technology Act (hereinafter referred to as "ITA"). The

 complainant therefore accused the Bank of violating Sections 66 , 43 and 85 of ITA. B. Counter of respondents 1 and 2 3. The Bank in its counter statement had admitted the following

 facts: 4. The Bank had further stated that the complainant had earlier

 filed the very same complaint before the Banking Ombudsman. It is their

 contention that the Bank cannot be held liable to compensate the

 complaint, since it is the complainant, who has volunteered to disclose all

 his information to a phishing e-mail. The respondent-Bank has time and

 again cautioned its customers from providing their details to fraudulent

 e-mails. The Bank had also questioned the jurisdiction of the

 adjudicating authorities by contending that the issue involves an elaborate

 enquiry and evidence which cannot be navigated by an adjudicating

 authority. A statement was also made that the complainant was aware

 that the phishing e-mail emanated from the IP address of the 5th

 respondent. (This statement is far from the truth, since the

 complainant has been repeatedly requesting the Bank to give the

 IP address from which the phishing e-mail had emanated). The

 respondent-Bank would submit that they had offered the following

 internet facilities: “1. The user unconditionally undertakes to have the user ID
 provided by 100 Bank changed and ensure that the same is kept
 confidential and not to let any unauthorized person to have
 access to the same. 10/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 2. Neither ICICI Bank nor its Affiliates shall be liable for any
 unauthorized transactions occurring through the internet
 banking and the user fully indemnifies and holds ICICI Bank
 harmless against any actions, suit, proceeded against it.
 The Complainant having unconditionally agreed for the said
 Terms and Conditions had negligently disclosed the confidential
 information such as ID and Password and thereby had fallen
 prey to the phishing mail.” 6. The Bank would further contend that they had diligently

 followed the KYC details with reference to the 5th respondent. They

 would also contend that they had done a detailed investigation through

 their complaint wing and the IP address pertaining to the transaction has

 been secured. The details of the IP address has been reproduced in the

 counter statement. A perusal of which would show that since the

 complainant had disclosed his confidential information and password by

 responding to the phishing e-mail, he had allowed an unauthorized

 transaction by a fraudster. The complainant having himself compromised

 his details cannot hold the Bank responsible for the loss sustained by

 him. The Bank would justify the adjustment of a sum of Rs.35,000/-

 from out of the amounts clandestinely transferred from the complainant's 11/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 account by stating that they had only exercised their banker's right of set

 off as soon as money had come to the account to the 5th respondent

 which was overdrawn. The Bank would submit that they not only use the

 password as the source of authentication but also adopt mobile alters /

 SMS confirmation. However, interestingly, nowhere in the counter is it

 stated that this source of authentication has been adopted in the case of

 the complainant particularly the mobile alert / SMS confirmation. The

 Bank sought to have the appeal dismissed. 7. The 5th respondent had not entered appearance or contested

 the complaint. C. Adjudicating Authority: 8. The Adjudicating Authority, by its judgment dated

 12.04.2010, had first dealt with the issue of maintainability since the

 Bank had questioned the jurisdiction of the adjudicating authority to

 consider the complaint. The adjudicating authority had observed that

 since the offences come within the scope of Section 43 and 85 of the ITA, 12/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 the complaint was very much maintainable before the adjudicating

 authority who was the authority constituted under the Act to try the

 complaints. 9. On perusing the evidence and the submissions of the learned

 counsels, the adjudicating authority has observed that an e-mail had been

 received by the complainant from the regular e-mails address of the Bank.

 However, the Bank had not taken any steps to distinguish e-mails arriving

 from their official server and e-mails arriving from elsewhere. They had

 further pointed out that there is no layer of authentication in the case of

 the transaction now under consideration. The Bank had not insisted on

 digital signature and there is no layer of protection to help the customer to

 identify a phishing e-mail from an authentic e-mail. The withdrawal of

 money from the account was possible, since the Bank had not provided

 the sufficient precautions. In fact, the communication from the Bank

 itself was from a gmail account, which clearly pointed out to the fact that

 the Bank had no safe and standard mode of communication. That apart,

 it was rather strange that the Bank had not filed a complaint but had only 13/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 asked the customer to file a complaint. This assumes significance since

 the person into whose account the money was transferred is also a

 customer of the Bank's Mumbai Branch. It was the indifference and

 systemic failure displayed by the Bank, which had resulted in a huge loss

 to the complainant. The complainant has neither received an SMS nor an

 e-mail alert from the Bank. Even after being put on notice about the

 fraud committed, the Bank did not take steps to involve the police in the

 investigation. The authority found it rather strange that the Bank had not

 been alerted when such a large amount has been transferred from the

 account of the complainant to a dormant account of the 5th respondent,

 where the transaction had stopped as early as on 01.04.2007. That apart,

 the attempts made by the Bank to secure the 5th respondent leaves much

 to be desired. Ultimately, the complaint was allowed and a sum of

 Rs.12,84,327/- was awarded. The details of which are herein below: 10.01.2018 instead of 10.01.2019 and also no amounts had been granted

 towards the incidental expenses. The Appellate Tribunal had awarded a

 sum of Rs.50,000/- towards consolidated costs and allowed interest at the

 rate of 12% on the entire amount now awarded, i.e Rs.4,95,829/-,

 1,60,049/- and Rs.27,850/-. It is challenging the appeal as well as the

 review that the respondent-Bank is before this Court.

 E. Submissions: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 Sl.No. Date Description of document
 1 The first Respondent is a NRI working at Abu Dhabi,
 UAE. He had a Savings bank Account (NRE) with the
 first Appellant bearing A/c. No. 613901200505. banking facility for the above mentioned account.
 3 02.09.2007 First Respondent had shared the credentials of the
 internet banking account, like user ID, password, Debit
 Card number and PIN number, in a website link, sent
 to him by email with the domain name
 of icicibank.com
 4 06/07th A sum of Rs.6,46,000/- was debited from the said
 September account of the first respondent and was transferred to
 2007 the Account No. 623505378469 held by one M/s. Uday Enterprises, with the second Appellant Branch,
 by way of seven (7) transactions. 5 06/07th The said M/s Uday Enterprises, in turn withdrew a
 September sum of Rs. 4,60,000/- from their account. 2007 6 07.09.2007 The first Respondent claims that he had received a
 phone call from the 2nd Respondent about the debits
 and that he was advised to complain if he had not done
 the same. 7 - The first Respondent had given a complaint to
 Customer care and reference number SR 37195467
 was assigned
 8 10.09.2007 The first respondent had emailed a complaint to the
 Appellants, wherein he has admitted that he had
 furnished the internet banking account details along
 with password by way of reply to the phishing mail.

 Reply was sent by the bank that the matter was being
 investigated and it would be reverted as to the
 resolution and that the amounts in the account of Uday
 Enterprises has been freezed. 9 20.10.2007 Mail by bank staff reporting the update on
 investigation stating that it is actually a Actual Infinity
 Phishing Fraud; amounts were withdrawn from the
 account of M/s. Uday Enterprises by self cheques
 across the counter; the Bank is not liable for the
 unauthorized transactions; the KYC of the account has 18/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 Sl.No. Date Description of document
 been verified which disclosed that the account was
 opened after obtained the KYC documents; and that
 the company is now not available in the address given
 said to have been vacated. 10 24.04.2008 The Appellant bank had also confirmed that it was a
 case of actual Infinity Phishing Fraud and a criminal
 case has to be lodged with the police by customer, on
 the basis of their investigation. 11 17.07.2008 The Appellant bank had transferred a sum of
 Rs.1,50,171/- which was lying in ICICI Bank in M/s
 Uday Enterprises account to the first respondent's
 account. 12 - The first respondent states to have given a compliant
 to the Superintendent of Police in Tuticorin. 13 06.02.2008 The first respondent is said to have lodged a fresh
 complaint to the Cyber Crime Cell, CCB at Chennai
 14 - The first respondent preferred a complaint against the
 Appellants and Respondents 2 to 4 herein before the
 Adjudicating Officer under Section 43 , read with section 46 of the Information Technology Act, 2000,
 for adjudication. 15 19.02.2009 The Appellants filed a counter to the said complaint
 before the Adjudicating Officer stating that there was
 no mistake on its part and it was a clear case of
 phishing fraud and the bank was not responsible for
 the same in any manner under section 43 of the Act.
 16 12.04.2010 Order was passed by the Adjudicating Officer in the
 Complaint Petition No. 2462 of 2008 in which the
 Appellants (ICICI Bank) were directed to pay
 Rs.4,95,829/- with 12% interest from 06.09.2007 and
 with travelling and adjudicating expenses of
 Rs.6,00,000/- totaling to a sum of Rs. 12,85,000/- to
 the first respondent. 17 Aggrieved by the Order the Appellants preferred
 Appeal No. 1 of 2010, before TDSAT (Appellate
 Authority),under section 57 of the IT Act, 2000. of 2010 before the TDSAT (Appellate Authority).
 19 10.01.2019 Order was passed in Cyber Appeal No.1 of 2010 by
 TDSAT (Appellate Authority), granting partial relief,
 (wrongly
 stated as in so far the adjudicating expenses granted by the
 10.01.2018) Adjudicating Officer was reduced to Rs. 50,000/-,
 while confirming the other part of the order. 20 19.01.2019 Review application was filed by the first respondent
 stating that there is a mistake in the date of order, the
 year of the IT Act is wrongly stated and that the
 interest for the period pending appeal should be
 awarded. 21 03.04.2019 Order was passed by TDSAT in R.A. No. 1 of 2019,
 correcting the date of order and year of the Act and
 holding interest payable during the period of appeal,
 but however to give credit to the amount deposited and
 the accrued interest. 22 April 2019 Aggrieved by the Order the Appellants have preferred
 the present Civil Miscellaneous Appeal under Sec. 62 of the Information Technology Act. 14. Mr.Shivakumar, learned counsel appearing for the Bank

 would submit that the complainant had received a phishing e-mail from

 the e-mail address "ICICI Bank” < [email protected] > on

 02.09.2007. The Bank would complain that without confirming either

 through phone or e-mail as to the authenticity of the e-mail, the

 complainant has proceeded to share all his confidential details. With this 20/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 information, the fraudster had transferred the money. The Bank would

 deny sending such an e-mail. They have also contended that the person

 who has accessed the e-mail of the complainant has used the confidential

 information to transfer the amounts to the account of the 5th respondent.

 The Bank cannot be held responsible for the transaction. The learned

 counsel would submit that after the complaint was given by the

 complainant to the Bank, they had conducted a detailed investigation,

 which confirmed, it was the case of actual infinity phishing fraud and

 these transactions had taken place only on account of the negligence on

 the part of the complainant. By sharing their confidential information to

 the phishing e-mails, no negligence can be fastened on the Bank. As

 soon as the Bank had come to know that the transaction thereunder a

 sum of Rs.4,60,000/- has been withdrawn, a sum of Rs.1,50,171/-, which

 is lying to the credit of the said 5th respondent, has been frozen by the

 Bank. He would further argue that the provisions of Section 43(g) of the

 ITA will not apply to the facts of the instant case, since it is not a case of

 gaining any access to the computer system or internet. On the contrary,

 the complainant himself has parted with his confidential details. The 21/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 learned counsel would further submit that the phishing fraud does not

 come within the provisions of Section 43(g) of the ITA. 15. It is also the contention of the learned counsel for the Bank

 that nowhere in the complaint does the complainant state that the Bank

 has provided the assistance to facilitate access to the respondent's e-mail.

 The learned counsel would further submit that the authorities below have

 misconstrued the word “assistance” provided under Section 43(g) of the

 ITA. In the instant case, no assistance had been provided by the Bank.

 The Authorities below have not discussed the evidence, which has

 prompted them to invoke Section 43 of the ITA. He would submit that

 the Bank had been periodically cautioning the customers from revealing

 their details to strange e-mails, despite which the complainant has parted

 with his information. It is the contention of the learned counsel for the

 Bank that since the credentials of the complainant had been compromised

 due to his own conduct, the Bank cannot be held liable. Therefore, they

 would pray that the appeal be allowed and the order of the authority

 below has to be set aside. 22/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 16. Per contra, the learned counsel for the complainant would

 submit that the complainant had received an e-mail from the e-mail

 address of the Bank, which is the address from which the periodic

 statements were received by the complainant from the Bank. The

 complainant would contend that it is not a case of similar e-mail address

 being used to get the vital information from the complainant but it is the

 very same e-mail address with the domain name from which the

 information had been received. This according to the learned counsel for

 the complainant is a case of an active involvement of staff of the Bank.

 The learned counsel would further submit that even assuming for a

 minute the complainant had fallen prey to a phishing e-mail, the Bank by

 not providing the necessary alerts particularly when a high value

 transaction was being done in an account where normally the monthly

 transaction was at Rs.50,000/- has failed to help the complainant mitigate

 his loss. Had the Bank sent a SMS when the first amount of

 Rs.1,00,000/- was transferred from the complainant's account to the 5 th

 respondent's account the complainant could have immediately reacted. 23/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 The Bank ought to have raised a red flag particularly when the 5 th

 respondent had been a dormant account for over 3 years and all of a

 sudden, a huge sum of Rs.6,46,000/- had been transferred to the account

 of the 5th respondent, which was already over drawn. Another lapse on

 the part of the respondent-Bank is that they have refused to part with the

 CCTV footage, which would have shown the person who had withdrawn

 the amounts from the account of the 5th respondent by depositing

 cheques. By not providing these details, the Bank appears to be

 withholding vital evidence. It is only after the transactions had taken

 place and that too after a day, that the bank had deemed it fit to shoot out

 a call to the complainant enquiring as to whether the complainant has

 authorised the transfer of such a huge sum. Though the complainant had

 denied such a transaction and though the 5 th respondent is also a

 customer of the Bank at Mumbai Branch, the respondent-Bank has not

 deemed it fit to file a police complaint, which would be the natural

 reaction, if the Bank had nothing to do with the transaction. The learned

 counsel would further submit that though the Bank claims that they had

 several sources of authentication in the form of OTP, SMS alert, e-mail 24/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 alerts etc., no document whatsoever has been produced to the authorities

 below that these sources of authentication was made available in the case

 of the complainant. From the above, it is clear that the complainant has

 not received any alert. Therefore, the learned counsel would submit that

 it is clearly evident that there is an involvement of the Bank staff.

 Therefore, they would pray that the order passed by the Appellate

 Tribunal be upheld. F. Discussion: 17. Before discussing the merits of the case on hand, it is

 necessary to extract some of the provisions of the ITA which has

 relevance to the case on hand. “ Section 43 . Penalty for damage to computer, computer system, etc.

 If any person without permission of the owner or any other person
 who is incharge of a computer, computer system or computer
 network, — (a) accesses or secures access to such computer, computer system
 or computer network; (b) downloads, copies or extracts any data, computer data base or
 information from such computer, computer system or computer 25/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 network including information or data held or stored in any
 removable storage medium; (c) introduces or causes to be introduced any computer contaminant
 or computer virus into any computer, computer system or computer
 network; (d) damages or causes to be damaged any computer, computer
 system or computer network, data, computer data base or any other
 programmes residing in such computer, computer system or
 computer network; (e) disrupts or causes disruption of any computer, computer system
 or computer network; (f) denies or causes the denial of access to any person authorised to
 access any computer, computer system or computer network by any
 means; (g) provides any assistance to any person to facilitate access to a
 computer, computer system or computer network in contravention
 of the provisions of this Act, rules or regulations made thereunder; (h) charges the services availed of by a person to the account of
 another person by tampering with or manipulating any computer,
 computer system, or computer network,

 he shall be liable to pay damages by way of compensation not
 exceeding one crore rupees to the person so affected.

 Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,— (i) "computer contaminant" means any set of computer instructions
 that are 26/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 designed— (a) to modify, destroy, record, transmit data or programme
 residing within a computer, computer system or computer network;
 or (b) by any means to usurp the normal operation of the
 computer, computer system, or computer network; (ii) "computer data base" means a representation of information,
 knowledge, facts, concepts or instructions in text, image, audio,
 video that are being prepared or have been prepared in a
 formalised manner or have been produced by a computer, computer
 system or computer network and are intended for use in a
 computer, computer system or computer network; (iii) "computer virus" means any computer instruction, information,
 data or programme that destroys, damages, degrades or adversely
 affects the performance of a computer resource or attaches itself to
 another computer resource and operates when a programme, daia
 or instruction is executed or some other event takes place in that
 computer resource; (iv) "damage" means to destroy, alter, delete, add, modify or
 rearrange any computer resource by any means. 46. Power to adjudicate. (1) For the purpose of adjudging under this Chapter whether any
 person has committed a contravention of any of the provisions of 27/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 this Act or of any rule, regulation, direction or order made
 thereunder the Central Government shall, subject to the provisions
 of sub-section (3), appoint any officer not below the rank of a
 Director to the Government of India or an equivalent officer of a
 State Government to be an adjudicating officer'for holding an
 inquiry in the manner prescribed by the Central Government.

 (2) The adjudicating officer shall, after giving the person referred to
 in sub-section (1) a reasonable opportunity for making
 representation in the matter and if, on such inquiry, he is satisfied
 that the person has committed the contravention, he may impose
 such penalty or award such compensation as he thinks fit in
 accordance with the provisions of that section.

 (3) No person shall be appointed as an adjudicating officer unless
 he possesses such experience in the field of Information Technology
 and legal or judicial experience as may be prescribed by the Central
 Government. (4) Where more than one adjudicating officers are appointed, the
 Central Government shall specify by order the matters and places
 with respect to which such officers shall exercise their jurisdiction.

 (5) Every adjudicating officer shall have the powers of a civil court
 which are conferred oh the Cyber Appellate Tribunal under sub-
 section (2) of section 58 , and— (a) all proceedings before it shall be deemed to be
 judicial proceedings within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of
 the Indian Penal Code; 28/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 (b) shall be deemed to be a civil court for the
 purposes of sections 345 and 346 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973. 85. Offences by companies. (1) Where a person committing a contravention of any of the
 provisions of this Act or of any rule, direction or order made
 thereunder is a company, every person who, at the time the
 contravention was committed, was in charge of, and was
 responsible to, the company for the conduct of business of the
 company as well as the company, shall be guilty of the
 contravention and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
 punished accordingly: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,— (i) "company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or
 other association of individuals; and (ii) "director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm. 18. Section 62 of the Information Technology Act, 2008 gives

 power to the High Court to re-appreciate the order of the Cyber Appellate

 Tribunal on the question of fact as well. Section 62 would read as

 follows:- In the instant case, from the arguments put forward by either party, it is

 clear that the same does not give rise to any question of law but is only

 re-appreciation of the evidence on record. 30/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 19. The grievance of the complainant is that he has been lured

 into divulging his confidential information from the registered e-mail

 address of the Bank from which he has been receiving the periodic

 statement of accounts. The Bank has simply contended that the

 complainant is the victim of a phishing e-mail. Phishing is a form of an

 internet fraud. Like the name and its pronunciation it means “throwing a

 bait to catch the fish” which in the case of internet phishing is the person

 receiving the e-mail. However, phishing e-mails are sent from email

 addresses which look identical to the genuine e-mail address with very

 minute changes which are visible only to a discerning eye. At a glance it

 would look like the genuine e-mail address thereby luring the user to part

 with his vital details. However in the case on hand a perusal of the

 e-mail I.D of the phishing e-mail and the e-mail ID in the admitted

 documents appear to be one and the same and it is identical. The domain

 name in both is the same, namely, “icici.com”. The domain name is an

 unique feature. The Bank has not categorically stated that the e-mail

 address from which the phishing e-mail has emanated is not that of the

 Bank and why the Bank thinks it is a fictitious e-mail address. The 31/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 complaint therefore falls within the provisions of Sections 43(a) and 43(b) of the ITA, which gives jurisdiction to the adjudicating authority

 under Section 46(1) to consider the complaint. From the fact that the

 Bank has not been able to establish that the e-mail address from which

 the phishing e-mail had been sent does not belong to the Bank, the only

 conclusion that can be arrived at is that the address has been

 compromised by somebody working within the Bank. Therefore, the

 complaint will also come within the provisions of Section 43(8) of the

 ITA. The conduct of the Bank during this transaction and particularly its

 conduct thereafter leaves much to be desired. The complainant has a

 saving bank account (NRE) with the Bank's Tuticorin Branch. This

 apparently is the Bank account to which the complainant has been

 remitting money for his people back home. The withdrawals for the

 month of August 2007 reveal that in total a sum of Rs.50,000/- has been

 withdrawn and each withdrawal is only within the range of Rs.20,000/-.

 That being the case on 04.09.2007, when a huge amount of Rs.6,46,000/-

 was being withdrawn within a gap of 15 minutes starting from 10.10 a.m

 to 10.25 a.m with each withdrawal being a sum of Rs.1,00,000/-, the 32/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 Bank should have noticed an unnatural transaction and should have

 raised a red flag. It is the categoric case of the complainant that he has

 not received any information about the withdrawals in the form of SMS

 alert or in the form of e-mail confirmation. Had the complainant been put

 on notice, he would have immediately stopped the transaction. The

 withdrawals have taken place between 06th and 7th September 2007. On

 06.09.2007, a sum of Rs.5,00,000/- has been withdrawn in 5 tranches of

 Rs.1,00,000/- each. On 07.09.2007, another sum of Rs.1,00,000/- and

 thereafter, a sum of Rs.46,000/- has been withdrawn. The Bank has

 intimated the complainant only after the transaction has concluded and

 that too at 1800 hours (UAE time) which means the call had been made

 by the Bank at 07.30 p.m (Indian time) beyond the banking hours in the

 form of a telephone call and not by way of an e-mail alert or SMS alert.

 Though the complainant has immediately denied the transaction, no steps

 have been taken to freeze the account of the 5 th respondent. On the

 contrary, the Bank appropriated Rs.35,000/- from out of this money

 transferred to the 5th respondent's account towards the 5th respondent's

 outstanding to them and permitted the cash withdrawal from the 5 th 33/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 respondent's account. The Bank would contend that they have provided

 an alert to the complainant. However, no documents whatsoever had

 been filed to show that such alert has been sent by the Bank to the

 complainant. In the absence of the above, the only conclusion that can be

 drawn is that there has been connivance at the Bank's end with the

 fraudster to take away the complainant's money. Another factor which

 compels this Court to arrive at this view is that despite coming to know

 that the 5th respondent had committed a fraud especially when the

 complainant had denied that he had transferred money to the 5th

 respondent, the Bank has not taken any steps to lodge a complaint with

 the Cyber Police. On the contrary, they have only directed the

 complainant to lodge a complaint thereby washing their hands of the

 entire transaction, which in the considered opinion of this Court does not

 augur well for a banking institution which works only on the trust of the

 customers. 20. In a judgment of the Kerala High Court reported in (2019)

 SCC Online Ker 5366 [Tony Enterprises, -Vs- Reserve Bank of India, 34/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 and others (W.P(C) No.28823 of 2017) and Cherian

 C.Karippaparampil Vs. Reserve Bank of India, (W.P(C) No.28824 of

 2017)] a learned Single Judge of the Court was considering a case of a

 SIM swapping fraud to gain access to bank accounts of the petitioners

 therein and to withdraw money from their bank accounts. The customers

 who were the victims of this fraud had moved the Court seeking a

 declaration to the effect that they have zero liability to the Bank in the

 light of the Circular issued by the Reserve Bank of India. The petitioners

 in both these Writ Petitions had availed the online banking facility

 offered by the Bank. The respondent-Bank had taken a defence that the

 login ID, password and telecom number are only known to the petitioners

 and that without laches on their part, fraudsters would not gain access to

 their accounts. In the course of the discussion, the learned Judge has

 discussed the master circular dated 06.07.2017 protecting customers in

 unauthorised electronic banking transactions. The circular states as

 follows:- Ultimately, the learned Judge held that the amounts withdrawn from the

 petitioner's account has to be restored to them without prejudice to the

 bankers right to proceed against the persons who are responsible for the

 disputed transactions through a civil court. 21. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the judgment reported in

 (2021) SCC Online SC 124 [Amitabha Dasgupta Vs. United Bank of

 India and Others] was considering a case where the Bank had broken

 open the locker of the appellant therein for non-payment of rents and

 subsequently, the locker had been reallocated to another customer. The

 appellant therein had filed a consumer complaint before the District

 Consumer Forum ('District Forum'). The District Forum had allowed the

 complaint and this was confirmed in part by the State Commission. The

 revision against the order of the State Commission was dismissed and the

 National Commission accepted the State Commission's finding on the 37/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 limited jurisdiction of the Consumer Forum to adjudicate on the recovery

 of the contents of the locker. Therefore, the customer had moved the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court. The learned Judges had in very great detail

 discussed the duty and care that a Bank has to exercise with regard to

 Locker Management and the kind of records that have to be maintained.

 The learned Judges had set out some of the procedures that have to be

 followed by the Bankers while allocating and operating the lockers. The

 learned Judges found fault with the Bank for having opened the locker

 without any prior notice to the customer. They had observed as follows:- and had made the following observations regarding a Bank's duty in the

 light of the advancing technology in conclusion:- In the instant case, the Bank even after coming to know that the account

 of the complainant has been tampered / manipulated and a fraudulent

 transaction has taken place did not take any steps to independently lodge

 a complaint against the 5th respondent into whose account the money 39/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 had been transferred. In this age of advancement in technology where

 predators are waiting in the wings in the virtual world as the whole world

 is connected through digitalization, the role of the Bank towards

 protecting the interests of its customer assumes greater significance. A

 strong cyber security is therefore the order of the day and Banks should

 not only provide it but educate its customers on the potential threats. In a

 country like ours where the bulk of the citizenry are illiterate, this

 becomes all the more necessary. In an article “Cyber world: 22. Therefore, from the above discussion, there is a clear breach

 of trust as well. The authorities below have at length discussed the

 manner in which the complainant had been deprived of his money and

 why the respondent-Bank should be held responsible. I see no reason to

 overturn this decision and consequently, the civil miscellaneous appeal is

 dismissed. No costs. 09 .11.2022

 Index : Yes/ No
 Speaking Order : Yes/No
 srn

 To 1. The Adjudicating Officer and Secretary
 to Government Information Technology Department,
 Government of Tamil Nadu,
 Fort St.George, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2. The Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal,
 New Delhi 41/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 P.T.ASHA.J

 srn C.M.A.No.2863 of 2019 09.11.2022 42/42 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis