1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) No. 2168 of 2020
 Reserved on: 14th Dec 2020. . A habitual offender, who twice underwent sentences upon conviction under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS Act ), is once again
 in prison w.e.f. 9th Aug 2020, for possessing 15.290 kilograms of poppy husk, and
 has now come up before this Court under Section 439 of CrPC, seeking bail, on the
 grounds that the quantity of contraband allegedly seized is intermediate quantity and
 does not restrict bail, because the quantity greater than 50 kilograms of poppy straw,
 falls in the category of the commercial quantity; hence the restrictions for bail
 imposed in S. 37 of NDPS Act, do not apply, and in the present case he is in custody
 for a considerable time. Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? 2. Earlier, the petitioner had filed a petition under Section 439 CrPC before the
 concerned Sessions Court. However, vide order dated 25.11.2020, Ld. Special Judge- . II, Kangra at Dharamshala, HP, dismissed the petition because the accused is a

 habitual offender. 3. Para 5 of the bail petition and status report mentions the following criminal

 history: 4. Briefly, the allegations against the petitioner are that on 9.8.2020, the SHO of

 the Police Station Damtal, District Kangra, H.P., was patrolling in the area falling in
 his jurisdiction. At around 9.50 a.m., when he was coming from Shekhpur towards

 Damtal, he noticed a person carrying a plastic bag on his shoulder. The moment the
 said person saw the police vehicle, he kept down the bag and put it on the road. The

 SHO stopped and inquired about his name, who revealed his name as Sunny Kapoor
 @ Honey, the petitioner herein. When the SHO, who was also the Investigating

 Officer, enquired about the bag, the said person became perplexed and did not
 answer. It arose suspicion in the mind of the SHO, and he associated an independent
 witness. In the presence of the said witness, the Investigating Officer directed the
 petitioner Sunny Kapoor to open the bag, but he showed his reluctance. Upon
 refusal of the accused to open the bag, the Investigator untied the string tying the
 bag. On opening the bag, the Investigator noticed one electronic scale, and below
 which two polythene bags were kept, both containing brown colored powder. The
 experience of the Investigator pointed out the powder to be of poppy straw. After
 that, the Investigator procured the electronic scale and conducted other proceedings
 on the spot. The contraband, when weighed on an electronic scale, measured as ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2021 20:15:44 :::HCHP 3 15.290 kilograms. After that, the police arrested the accused and sent a
 communication to the Police Station, which led to the registration of the FIR,
 mentioned above. . 5. Ld. Counsel for the petitioner contends that incarceration before the proof of
 guilt would cause grave injustice to the petitioner and family. 6. On the contrary, Mr. Nand Lal Thakur, Ld. Additional Advocate General
 contends that the accused is a proven habitual offender, and given his past conduct;
 he is likely to repeat the offence. He further insists that if this Court is inclined to
 grant bail, then such a bond must be subject to very stringent conditions. 7. Ms. Shilpa Sood Advocate, Ld. Amicus Curiae, contends that to deny bail to a
 habitual offender would depend upon the gravity of previous crimes, sentences
 prescribed or imposed, and the period of incarceration undergone. She further argued

 that an accused is presumed to be innocent unless convicted, although second or

 third-time conviction for the same or similar offence may attract even more stringent
 punishment. The Courts have to keep in mind various factors while granting or
 denying bail to the applicant and judging whether the investigation and trial of the

 case can go on smoothly by releasing the accused and imposing conditions while
 doing so. To substantiate her contention, Ms. Shilpa Sood, Ld. Amicus Curiae, cited

 several judicial precedents. ANALYSIS AND REASONING: 8. The petitioner stands arraigned as an accused in an FIR for the commission of
 offences prescribing more than seven-year sentence. It means that apart from

 discussing the rival contentions, the Court needs to take a holistic view of the matter. 9. Pre-trial incarceration needs justification depending upon the offense's heinous
 nature, terms of the sentence prescribed in the statute for such a crime, probability of
 the accused fleeing from justice, hampering the investigation, criminal history of the
 accused, and doing away with the victim(s) and witnesses. While considering bail,
 the Court has to maintain a balance between all stakeholders and safeguard the
 interests of the victim, the accused, society, and the State. The primary purpose of
 bail is to secure the presence of the accused to attend the trial. 10. While deciding bail applications, the Courts should confine the discussions on
 evidence only to the extent relevant for determining bail and the difference in the
 order of bail, and final judgment is similar to a sketch and a painting; however, some

 . sketches are in detail and paintings with a few strokes. 11. In Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v State of Punjab , 1980 (2) SCC 565, (Para 30), a
 Constitutional Bench of Supreme Court held that the bail decision must enter the

 cumulative effect of the variety of circumstances justifying the grant or refusal of
 bail. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v Rajesh Ranjan @ Pappu Yadav , 2005 (2) SCC
 42, (Para 18) a three-member Bench of Supreme Court held that the persons accused

 of non-bailable offences are entitled to bail if the Court concerned concludes that the
 prosecution has failed to establish a prima facie case against him, or despite the
 existence of a prima facie case, the Court records reasons for its satisfaction for the

 need to release such person on bail, in the given fact situations. The rejection of bail

 does not preclude filing a subsequent application. The courts can release on bail,
 provided the circumstances then prevailing requires, and a change in the fact
 situation. In State of Rajasthan v Balchand , AIR 1977 SC 2447, (Para 2 & 3),

 Supreme Court noticeably illustrated that the basic rule might perhaps be tersely put
 as bail, not jail, except where there are circumstances suggestive of fleeing from
 justice or thwarting the course of justice or creating other troubles in the shape of

 repeating offences or intimidating witnesses and the like by the petitioner who seeks
 enlargement on bail from the Court. It is true that the gravity of the offence involved

 is likely to induce the petitioner to avoid the course of justice and must weigh when
 considering the question of jail. So also, the heinousness of the crime. In Gudikanti

 Narasimhulu v Public Prosecutor , (1978) 1 SCC 240, (Para 16), Supreme Court
 held that the delicate light of the law favors release unless countered by the negative
 criteria necessitating that course. In Prahlad Singh Bhati v NCT, Delhi , (2001) 4
 SCC 280, Supreme Court highlighted one of the factors for bail to be the public or
 the State's immense interest and similar other considerations. In Dataram Singh v
 State of Uttar Pradesh , (2018) 3 SCC 22, (Para 6), Supreme Court held that the
 grant or refusal of bail is entirely within the discretion of the judge hearing the matter
 and though that discretion is unfettered, it must be exercised judiciously,
 compassionately, and in a humane manner. Also, conditions for the grant of bail ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2021 20:15:44 :::HCHP 5 ought not to be so strict as to be incapable of compliance, thereby making the grant
 of bail illusory. 12. Section 2 (vii-a) of the NDPS Act defines commercial quantity as the quantity

 . greater than the quantity specified in the schedule. S. 2 (xxiii-a) defines a small
 quantity as the quantity lesser than the quantity specified in the schedule. The
 remaining quantity falls in an undefined category, which is now generally called as

 intermediate quantity. The penal sections in the NDPS Act , which specify an offense,
 also mention the minimum and maximum sentence, depending upon the substance's
 quantity. Commercial quantity mandates a minimum sentence of ten years of

 imprisonment and a minimum fine of Rupees One Lac, and bail is subject to the
 riders commanded in S. 37 of NDPS Act. 13. Sr. No. 110 of the Notification, issued under Section 2 (viia) of NDPS Act,

 defines that the commercial quantity of poppy straw is greater than 50 kgs and S. 2

 (xxiiia) states that the small quantity to be lesser than 1000 grams (1Kg). The
 quantity of drug involved is 15.290 Kg of poppy straw, which is less than the
 commercial quantity. 14. In Sami Ullaha v Superintendent Narcotic Control Bureau , (2008) 16 SCC
 471, the Hon'ble Supreme Court holds that in intermediate quantity, the rigors of the

 provisions of Section 37 may not be justified. 15. When the quantity is less than commercial, the rigors of Section 37 of the

 NDPS Act will not attract, and factors become similar to bail petitions under regular
 statutes. Thus, when the maximum sentence cannot exceed ten years, and the accused

 is yet to be proved guilty, the grant of bail is normal, unless the Prosecution points
 towards the exceptional circumstances, negating the bail. 16. In Prem Singh v State of HP, Cr.MP(M) No. 135 of 2020, this Court, after
 surveying judicial precedents relating to disclosure of criminal history in bail
 petitions, observed that apart from the petitioner, the prosecution, in its status report,
 shall also explicitly mention the criminal history. In bail petitions where there is no
 pleading about the criminal record, then the State/Respondent(s) shall bring it to the
 concerned Court's notice about non-mentioning of the criminal history. In such a
 situation, it shall be for the concerned Court to take a call, if it so desires, depending ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2021 20:15:44 :::HCHP 6 upon the facts of each case (Para 15 & 16). PRECEDENTS CONCERNING BAIL TO HABITUAL OFFENDERS: 17. In Dhanji Ram Sharma v Superintendent of Police, North District Delhi

 Police , 1966 AIR(SC) 1766, Supreme Court considering the powers of the police
 officials to make entries in the surveillance register, holds,

 [7]. A habitual offender or a person habitually addicted to crime
 is one who is a criminal by habit or by disposition formed by
 repetition of crimes. Reasonable belief of the police officer that
 the suspect is a habitual offender or is a person habitually

 addicted to crime is sufficient to justify action under Rr.23.4(3) (b) and 23.9(2). Mere belief is not sufficient. The belief must be
 reasonable, it must be based on reasonable grounds. The suspect
 may or may not have been convicted of any crime. Even apart
 from any conviction, there may be reasonable grounds for

 believing that he is a habitual offender." 18. In Vijay Narain Singh v State of Bihar, (1984) 3 SCC 14, a three Judges
 Bench of Supreme Court observed,

 [11] According to its ordinary meaning, the word 'habitual' as
 given in Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, Vol 1, P. 910 is: B. A habitual criminal, drunkard, etc." [12] A person is a habitual criminal who by force of habit or

 inward disposition, inherent or latent in him, has grown
 accustomed to lead a life of crime. It is the force of habit
 inherent or latent in an individual with a criminal instinct, with a
 criminal disposition of mind, that makes him dangerous to the
 society in general. In simple language the word 'habitually'
 means 'by force of habit'... 19. In D.M. Nagaraja v Government of Karnataka , (2011) 10 SCC 215, while
 considering the order of preventive detention, Hon'ble Supreme Court holds,

 [15]. As rightly pointed out by Ms. Anitha Shenoy, learned
 counsel for the State, the perusal of the records and all the above
 details furnished in the detention order clearly show that the ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2021 20:15:44 :::HCHP 7 appellant-detenue started his career in criminal field when he
 was 30 years old and is now about 60 years. In the beginning, he
 was the follower of notorious rowdies Jairaj and Korangu
 Krishna. Later, he formed his own gang consisting of his own

 . younger brother Krishna @ Kitti along with others. Krishna @

 Kitti met his end in police encounter during 1996 in Rajajinagar
 P.S. Crime No. 125 of 1996 for the offences punishable under
 Sections 141, 143, 147, 148, 302 read with Section 149 Indian
 Penal Code. [16]. The records also indicate that the detenue has about 28
 associates assisting him in his criminal activities and a number
 of cases are pending against them. The detenue has no regard for
 human life. The cases registered against him pertain to murder,

 attempt to murder, dacoity, rioting, assault, damage to public
 property, provoking the public, extortion while settling land
 disputes, possessing illegal weapons etc. Though he was
 sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 9 years, that has
 not deterred him to put a stop to his criminal activities. In fact,

 from the year 1981 up to 2010, he has systematically committed

 these criminal activities. [17]. All the above-mentioned details which have been correctly
 stated in the detention order clearly show that the appellant is
 not amenable to ordinary course of law. It also shows that even

 after his release on bail from the prison on various occasions, he
 again started indulging in same type of offences, particularly,
 threatening the public life, damaging pubic property etc.... 20. In Union of India v. Mahaboob Alam , (2004) 4 SCC 105, Hon'ble Supreme

 Court holds that in appeal against conviction under NDPS Act , High Court erred in
 suspending the sentence of a repeat offender on the grounds that co-accused had been

 granted bail. 21. In Union of India v Kuldeep Singh , (2004) 2 SCC 590, Supreme Court holds,

 [17] An offence relating to narcotic drugs or psychotropic
 substance is more heinous than a culpable homicide because the
 latter affects only an individual while the former affects and
 leaves its deleterious impact on the society, besides shattering
 the economy of the nation as well. That the legislature intended
 to make the offences under the Act so serious to be dealt with
 sternly and with an iron hand is made clear by providing for
 enhanced penalties, including even death sentence, in certain
 class of cases, when convicted for the second time. [19] Discretion is to know through law what is just. Where a
 Judge has and exercises a judicial discretion his order
 unappealable unless he did so under a mistake of law or fact or
 in disregard of principle, or after taking into account irrelevant

 . matters. It will help to show this if it can be shown that there

 were no materials on which he could exercise his discretion in
 the way he did. Not any one of the reasons attempted to be
 enumerated by the High Court in this case could in law be
 viewed as either relevant or reasonable reasons carrying even

 any resemblance of nexus in adjudging the quantum of
 punishment in respect of an offence punishable under the Act. [20] When anything is left to any person, Judge or Magistrate to
 be done according to his discretion, the law intends it must be

 done with sound discretion, and according to law. (See Tomlin's
 Law Dictionary). In its ordinary meaning, the word "discretion"
 signifies unrestrained exercise of choice or will; freedom to act
 according to one's own judgment; unrestrained exercise of will;
 the liberty of power of acting without control other than one's

 own judgment. But, when applied to public functionaries, it

 means a power or right conferred upon them by law, of acting
 officially in certain circumstances according to the dictates of
 their own judgment and conscience, uncontrolled by the
 judgment or conscience of others. Discretion is to discern
 between right and wrong; and, therefore, whoever hath power to

 act at discretion, is bound by the rule of reason and law. (See
 Tomlin's Law Dictionary). [21] Discretion, in general, is the discernment of what is right

 and proper. It denotes knowledge and prudence, that
 discernment which enables a person to judge critically of what is

 correct and proper united with caution; nice discernment, and
 judgment directed by circumspection; deliberate judgment;
 soundness of judgment; a science or understanding to discern
 between falsity and truth, between wrong and right, between

 shadow and substance, between equity and colourable glosses
 and pretences, and not to do according to the will and private
 affections of persons. When it is said that something is to be
 done within the discretion of the authorities, that something is to
 be done according to the rules of reason and justice, not
 according to private opinion; according to law and not humour.
 It is to be not arbitrary, vague, and fanciful, but legal and
 regular. And it must be exercised within the limit, to which an
 honest man, competent to the discharge of his office ought to
 confine himself (Per Lord Halsbury, LC, in Sharp v. Wakefield
 (1891) Appeal Cases 173). Also (See S. G. Jaisinghani v. Union
 of India and others (AIR 1967 SC 1427). [22] The word "discretion" standing single and unsupported by
 circumstances signifies exercise of judgment, skill or wisdom as
 distinguished from folly, unthinking or haste; evidently therefore
 a discretion cannot be arbitrary but must be a result of judicial

 . thinking. The word in itself implies vigilant circumspection and

 care; therefore where the legislature concedes discretion it also
 imposes a heavy responsibility. 22. In Ravinder Singh @ Ravi Pavar v State of Gujarat , (2013) 12 SCC 446,
 Supreme Court observed,

 [25]. Taking note of all these aspects, his antecedents, the
 gravity and nature of offence, loss of human lives, the impact on
 the social fabric of the society, his continuous involvement in
 criminal activities while on bail, we are satisfied that respondent
 (A-2) does not deserve to continue to remain on bail. 23. In State of Maharashtra v Pappu @ Suresh Budharmal Kalani , (2014) 11
 SCC 244, Supreme Court holds, ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2021 20:15:44 :::HCHP 10 [14]. It is not in dispute that in spite of being acquitted in some
 of the cases, still there are 15 cases in which trial is pending
 against the respondent, out of which two cases are under
 Sections 302 read with 120B, IPC . In the present case also,

 . initially along with charges under Sections 302 / 120B , IPC

 offences punishable under TADA were also charged against the
 respondent but later on the TADA charges were withdrawn.
 Though we are not inclined to go into the matter in detail at
 present to interfere in the order passed by the High Court, taking

 into consideration the peculiar facts and circumstances of the
 case, we are inclined to interfere and cancel the bail granted by
 the High Court. 24. In Chandrakeshwar Prasad @ Chandu Babu v State of Bihar , (2016) 9

 SCC 443, Supreme Court holds,
 [13]. On a careful perusal of the records of the case and
 considering all the aspects of the matter in question and having
 regard to the proved charges in the cases concerned, and the

 charges pending adjudication against the respondent-accused

 and further balancing the considerations of individual liberty
 and societal interest as well as the prescriptions and the
 perception of law regarding bail, it appears to us that the High
 Court has erred in granting bail to the respondent-accused
 without taking into consideration the overall facts otherwise

 having a bearing on the exercise of its discretion on the issue. [14]. Judged on the entire conspectus of the attendant facts and
 circumstances and considering the stage of the present case

 before the trial court where charge-sheet has already been
 submitted, together with pending proceedings against the

 respondent-accused as on date, and his recorded antecedents in
 the various decisions of this Court, we are thus unable to sustain
 the impugned order of the High Court granting bail to him. 25. In Neeru Yadav v State of U.P. , (2016) 15 SCC 422, Supreme Court, rejected
 the bail granted by the High Court, by holding as follows,

 [9]. On a perusal of the aforesaid list, it is quite vivid that the
 respondent No. 2 is a history-sheeter and is involved in heinous
 offences. Having stated the facts and noting the nature of
 involvement of the accused in the crimes in question, there can
 be no scintilla of doubt to name him a "history-sheeter". The
 question, therefore, arises whether in these circumstances,
 should the High Court have enlarged him on bail on the
 foundation of parity. [10]. In Ram Govind Upadhyay v. Sudarshan Singh , (2002) 3
 SCC 598, it has been clearly laid down that the grant of bail
 though involves exercise of discretionary power of the Court,
 such exercise of discretion has to be made in a judicious manner

 . and not as a matter of course. The heinous nature of crimes

 warrants more caution as there is a greater chance of rejection of
 bail though, however, dependent on the factual matrix of the
 matter. [12]. In Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v Ashis Chatterjee , (2010) 14
 SCC 496, while dealing with the court's role to interfere with the
 power of the High Court to grant bail to the accused, the Court
 observed that it is to be seen that the High Court has exercised
 this discretion judiciously, cautiously and strictly in compliance

 with the basic principles laid down in catena of judgments on
 that point. The Court proceeded to enumerate the factors: - [13]. We will be failing in our duty if we do not take note of the
 concept of liberty and its curtailment by law. It is an established
 fact that a crime though committed against an individual, in all
 cases it does not retain an individual character. It, on occasions
 and in certain offences, accentuates and causes harm to the
 society. The victim may be an individual, but in the ultimate
 eventuate, it is the society which is the victim. A crime, as is
 understood, creates a dent in the law and order situation. In a
 civilised society, a crime disturbs orderliness. It affects the
 peaceful life of the society. An individual can enjoy his liberty
 which is definitely of paramount value but he cannot be a law
 unto himself. He cannot cause harm to others. He cannot be a
 nuisance to the collective. He cannot be a terror to the society; and that is why Edmund Burke, the great English thinker, almost
 two centuries and a decade back eloquently spoke thus: - E. Barrett Prettyman, a retired Chief Judge of US Court of
 Appeals had to state thus: - [15]. This being the position of law, it is clear as cloudless sky
 that the High Court has totally ignored the criminal antecedents
 of the accused. What has weighed with the High Court is the
 doctrine of parity. A history- sheeter involved in the nature of ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2021 20:15:44 :::HCHP 13 crimes which we have reproduced hereinabove, are not minor
 offences so that he is not to be retained in custody, but the
 crimes are of heinous nature and such crimes, by no stretch of
 imagination, can be regarded as jejune. Such cases do create a

 . thunder and lightening having the effect potentiality of torrential

 rain in an analytical mind. The law expects the judiciary to be
 alert while admitting these kind of accused persons to be at large
 and, therefore, the emphasis is on exercise of discretion
 judiciously and not in a whimsical manner. 26. In Ganesan v District Superintendent of Police , 2010 LawSuit(Mad) 4365,
 Madras High Court observed,

 [74]. ...Even though the petitioner was lastly convicted in a
 criminal case which according to him, was due to a family
 dispute, there is no incriminating material between 2003 to
 2007, that the petitioner had come to adverse notice between

 2003 to 2007 and no details of any alleged occurrence, such as
 involvement in a crime or aiding or abetting, is recorded. 27. In Thirumagan v Superintendent of Police, Madurai District , 2020
 LawSuit(Mad) 519, (Para 36-E), Madras High Court observed,

 [36-E]. In reckoning the number of cases for treating a person as
 addicted to or habitually given to commit a crime, cases where (i) the investigation agency has dropped a case, or (ii) where the
 FIR was closed under Sec.468 Cr.P.C, by the Court which is
 empowered to take cognizance of an offence on a Police report,

 or (iii) where a history sheeter has been discharged or acquitted
 by a competent Court, and/or (iv) quashed by this Court or by
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court shall not be included. However,

 those cases where the investigation or trial is pending, they can
 be reckoned. This direction has no application to National
 Registry maintained under the Criminal Law Amendment Act,
 2018 . 28. A survey of the judicial precedents about criminal history of a habitual offender
 leads to the following inference: would show that the accused is not amenable to the ordinary course of law. - ( D.M. Nagaraja v Government of Karnataka, Para 11 & 12). c) The antecedents, gravity, and nature of the offence, loss of human lives,

 the impact on society's social fabric, and continuous involvement in criminal
 activities while on bail would lead to the satisfaction that the accused does not
 deserve bail. -( Ravinder Singh @ Ravi Pavar v State of Gujarat , (2013) 12
 SCC 446, Para 25). d)

 An accused against whom many cases, including murder and terrorism,
 are pending is not entitled to bail. -( State of Maharashtra v Pappu @ Suresh

 Budharmal Kalani , (2014) 11 SCC 244, Para 14). e) The grant or rejection of bail would depend upon proved and pending
 charges against the accused and upon balancing the considerations of
 individual liberty and societal interest and the prescriptions and the perception

 of law regarding bail. -( Chandrakeshwar Prasad @ Chandu Babu v State of
 Bihar , (2016) 9 SCC 443, Para 13 & 14). f) With no scintilla of doubt to name the accused as a "history-sheeter" competent Court, and/or (iv) quashed by this Court or by the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court shall not be included. However, in those cases where the investigation or
 trial is pending, they can be reckoned. This direction has no application to

 National Registry under the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 2018 .
 ( Thirumagan v Superintendent of Police, Madurai District , 2020 LawSuit
 (Mad) 519, (Para 36-E), Madras High Court) i) When anything is left to any person, Judge, or Magistrate to be done
 according to his discretion, the law intends it must be done with sound
 discretion, and what is just. - ( Union of India v Kuldeep Singh , (2004) 2 SCC

 590, Para 19 & 20). j) Discretion of bail has to be made judiciously and not as a matter of
 course or in a whimsical manner. The Courts cannot ignore the criminal
 antecedents of the accused. The law expects the judiciary to be alert while

 admitting these kinds of accused persons to be at large. -( Prasanta Kumar
 Sarkar v Ashis Chatterjee , (2010) 14 SCC 496). 29. Per Section 437(1) CrPC, the Legislator mandates criminal history as an
 essential element for consideration while granting bails. The summary of the above

 judicial precedents also points out that criminal history of the accused is an important
 factor while deciding bail petition. In reckoning the number of cases as criminal

 history, the prosecutions resulting in acquittal or discharge; or when Courts quashed
 the FIR; the prosecution stands withdrawn, or Prosecution filed a closure report;
 cannot be included. The criminal history must be of cases where the accused was
 convicted, including the suspended sentences and all pending First Information
 Reports, wherein the bail petitioner stands arraigned as an accused. Taking a holistic
 view while considering bail for a habitual offender, the following categories and
 factors, apart from many more, may be relevant: . How much was the loss of human lives; c) Nature of offence: Murder and its attempt, terrorism, dacoity, poisoning; d) Professional criminal: Supari killer, drug mafia, encroacher, bootlegger,
 Gunda, badmash; e) Habitual sexual offenders: Perverts, molesters, stalkers, voyeuristic,

 those forcing children and women into prostitution, posting obscene and nude
 pictures and videos on the internet, sexual assault etc.; f) The impact on the State and social fabric of the society: Espionage,

 dividing social fabric by practicing or promoting casteism, racism, and
 fanaticism; State/Country, Ponzi schemes, thugs, fraudsters, scamsters, loan frauds, net

 banking, credit card cheatings, corruption, bribe, financial bungling, money

 laundering, wage theft, insider trading, labour racketeering, embezzlement,
 cybercrime, copyright infringement, data theft, identity theft, and forgery; i) Addiction to crime & conduct: Systematic and continuous involvement
 of accused in criminal activities while on bail; j) Accused is not amenable to the ordinary course of law: When even a
 long-term sentence did not deter the accused from putting an end to the
 criminal activities. commission of the subsequent violation is very short, the Court may analyse ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2021 20:15:44 :::HCHP 17 that the accused is leading a dishonest or criminal life persistently. 30. In the present form of drafting, the penal statutes do not leave any scope for

 . using algorithms in sentencing. While considering each bail petition of the accused

 with a criminal history, it throws an onerous responsibility upon the Courts to act
 judiciously with reasonableness because arbitrariness is the antithesis of law. Although crime is to be despised and not the criminal, yet for a recidivist, the
 contours of a playing field are marshy, and graver the criminal history, slushier the
 puddles. 31. The present accusation against the petitioner is possessing 15.290 Kg of poppy

 straw, which is an intermediate quantity. 32. The petitioner's criminal history points out that in one case, the volume of the

 heroine was 2.2 grams, whereas lesser than 5 grams is a small quantity. In the other

 case, the weight of poppy straw was 3 kg, whereas the quantity greater than 1 kg is
 intermediate. For possessing 3 kg of poppy straw, he underwent a sentence of 40
 days, and for possessing 2.2 grams of heroin, the punishment of 4 days. In all, the

 petitioner has experienced just 44 days of the sentence, which is less than the
 incarceration period already spent in this FIR. 33. The possibility of the accused influencing the investigation, tampering with

 evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken

 care of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions. In Sushila Aggarwal,
 (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Constitutional Bench held that unusually, subject to the
 evidence produced, the Courts can impose restrictive conditions. 34. Given the above reasoning, the Court is granting bail to the petitioner, subject
 to strict terms and conditions, which shall be over and above and irrespective of the
 contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 35. In Manish Lal Shrivastava v State of Himachal Pradesh, CrMPM No. 1734
 of 2020, after analyzing the judicial precedents, this Court observed that any Court
 granting bail with sureties should give a choice to the accused to either furnish surety
 bonds or give a fixed deposit, with a further option to switch over to another. 36. Given above, the petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR mentioned
 above, subject to his furnishing a personal bond of Rs. Twenty-five thousand (INR
 25,000/-), and shall furnish two sureties of a similar amount, to the satisfaction of the

 . Judicial Magistrate having the jurisdiction over the Police Station conducting the

 investigation, and in case of non-availability, any Ilaqa Magistrate. Before accepting
 the sureties, the concerned Magistrate/Attesting Officer must satisfy that in case the

 accused fails to appear in Court, then such sureties are capable to produce the
 accused before the Court, keeping in mind the Jurisprudence behind the sureties,
 which is to secure the presence of the accused. 37. In the alternative, the petitioner may furnish aforesaid personal bond and fixed
 deposit(s) for Rs. Twenty-five thousand only (INR 25,000/-), made in favor of "Chief
 Judicial Magistrate, District Kangra, H.P.," Such Fixed deposits may be made from

 any of the banks where the stake of the State is more than 50%, or any of the stable

 private banks, e.g., HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, etc., with the
 clause of automatic renewal of principal, and liberty of the interest reverting to the
 linked account. Such a fixed deposit need not necessarily be made from the account

 of the petitioner and need not be a single fixed deposit. If such a fixed deposit is
 made in physical form, i.e., on paper, then the original receipt shall be handed over to
 the concerned Court. If made online, then its printout, attested by any Advocate, and

 if possible, countersigned by the accused, shall be filed, and the depositor shall get
 the online liquidation disabled. The petitioner or his Advocate shall inform at the

 earliest to the concerned branch of the bank, that it has been tendered as surety. Such
 information be sent either by e-mail or by post/courier, about the fixed deposit,

 whether made on paper or in any other mode, along with its number as well as FIR
 number. After that, the petitioner shall hand over such proof along with endorsement
 to the concerned Court. It shall be total discretion of the petitioner to choose between
 surety bonds and fixed deposits. It shall also be open for the petitioner to apply for
 substitution of fixed deposit with surety bonds and vice-versa. Subject to the
 proceedings under S. 446 CrPC, if any, the entire amount of fixed deposit along with
 interest credited, if any, shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor(s). Such Court
 shall have a lien over the deposits up to the expiry of the period mentioned under S.
 437-A CrPC, 1973, or until discharged by substitution as the case may be. 38. The furnishing of the personal bonds shall be deemed acceptance of the
 following and all other stipulations, terms, and conditions of this bail order: Court(s). Once the trial begins, the petitioner shall not, in any manner, try to

 delay the proceedings, and undertakes to appear before the concerned Court
 and to attend the trial on each date, unless exempted. In case of an appeal, on

 this very bond, the petitioner also promises to appear before the higher Court in
 terms of Section 437-A CrPC. b) The attesting officer shall, on the reverse page of personal bonds,

 mention the permanent address of the petitioner along with the phone
 number(s), WhatsApp number (if any), e-mail (if any), and details of personal
 bank account(s) (if available) and in case of any change, the petitioner shall

 immediately and not later than 30 days from such modification, intimate about

 the change of residential address and change of phone numbers, WhatsApp
 number, e-mail accounts, to the Police Station of this FIR to the concerned
 Court. c) The petitioner shall not influence, browbeat, pressurize, make any
 inducement, threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the witnesses, the
 Police officials, or any other person acquainted with the facts of the case, to

 dissuade them from disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court, or to

 tamper with the evidence. d) The petitioner shall join the investigation as and when called by the

 Investigating Officer or any Superior Officer. The petitioner shall cooperate
 with the investigation at all further stages as may be required. In the event of
 failure to do so, it will be open for the prosecution to seek cancellation of the
 bail granted by the present order. Whenever the investigation occurs within the
 police premises, the petitioner shall not be called before 8 AM and shall be let
 off before 5 PM, and shall not be subjected to third-degree, indecent language,
 inhuman treatment, etc. e) In addition to standard modes of processing service of summons, the
 concerned Court may serve the accused through E-Mail (if any), and any ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2021 20:15:44 :::HCHP 20 instant messaging service such as WhatsApp, etc. (if any). [Hon'ble Supreme
 Court of India in Re Cognizance for Extension of Limitation, Suo Moto Writ
 Petition (C) No. 3/2020, I.A. No. 48461/2020- July 10, 2020]. The concerned

 . Court may also inform the accused about the issuance of summons, bailable

 and non-bailable warrants through the modes mentioned above. i. At the first instance, the Court shall issue the summons. ii. In case the petitioner fails to appear before the Court on the specified
 date, in that eventuality, the concerned Court may issue bailable

 warrants. iii. Finally, if the petitioner still fails to put in an appearance, in that
 eventuality, the concerned Court may issue Non-Bailable Warrants to

 procure the petitioner's presence and may send the petitioner to the

 Judicial custody for a period for which the concerned Court may deem
 fit and proper to achieve the purpose. 40. The petitioner shall surrender all firearms, ammunition, if any, along with the
 arms license to the concerned authority within 30 days from today. However, subject
 to the provisions of the Indian Arms Act, 1959 , the petitioner shall be entitled to

 renew and take it back in case of acquittal in this case. 41. During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner repeats or commits any offence
 where the sentence prescribed is seven years or more or violates any condition as

 stipulated in this order, the State may move an appropriate application before this
 Court, seeking cancellation of this bail. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall continue to
 remain in force throughout the trial and after that in terms of Section 437-A of the
 CrPC. 42. Any Advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose presence the
 petitioner puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions of this bail
 order, in vernacular and if not feasible, in Hindi. 43. In case the petitioner finds the bail condition(s) as violating fundamental, ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2021 20:15:44 :::HCHP 21 human, or other rights, or causing difficulty due to any situation, then for
 modification of such term(s), the petitioner may file a reasoned application before
 this Court, and after taking cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the

 . trial Court, as the case may be, and such Court shall also be competent to modify or

 delete any condition. 44. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the rights of the Police or
 the investigating agency from further investigation per law. 45. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the

 merits of the case, nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 46. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court believes that the
 accused shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 47. I express my gratitude to Ld. Amicus Curiae Ms. Shilpa Sood Advocate for
 excellent assistance and outstanding research. 48. There would no need for a certified copy of this order for furnishing bonds,
 and any Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order from the official web
 page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. In case the attesting officer or the

 Court wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can also verify its authenticity
 and may download and use the downloaded copy for attesting bonds. The petition stands allowed in the terms mentioned above. (Anoop Chitkara)
 Judge. Jan 1, 2021 (mamta/ps/ks) ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2021 20:15:44 :::HCHP