1. This order shall dispose of the application filed under order 39 Rule

1& 2 of CPC in the present suit, whereby the plaintiff is seeking ad-

interim injunction against the defendants for publishing defamatory

content about the Plaintiff on their website. Before I proceed to decide the aforesaid application, It would be pertinent

to give a brief resume of facts that led to the filing of the present suit by

the plaintiff:- 2. As per the Plaintiff, Nirmaljit Singh Narula popularly known as CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 1 of 22 „Nirmal Baba‟ is a highly revered spiritual guide, renowned worldwide for

his spiritual discourses .The Plaintiff is also known for his healing powers,

and regularly conducting assemblies called as „Samagams‟. The preaching

emphasize on the values of true, selfless prayer and devotion to one‟s

duties and guide his followers/devotees to abstain from, rather shun the

path of "mantra", "tantra" or "yantra", or in other words "black magic" or

"tantric practices". The plaintiff teaches his followers to spiritually evolve

their lives by believing in the ultimate powers of the religion they follow.

As per the Plaintiff, the plaintiff has lacs of followers in India and abroad

and plaintiff‟s website www.nirmalbaba.com is visited by over million

followers in a month. 3. The plaintiff started holding Holy Samagams (congregation) where

the followers/devotees come to hear his spiritual discourses and seek his

blessings. 4. As per the plaintiff, The Defendant No.1 to 3 have authored and/ or

published defamatory articles written by themselves and others along

with defamatory comments posted by the third parties about the plaintiff

on Defendant no.3 website in order to disparage and malign the

reputation of the plaintiff. 5. Further as per paragraph 4 of the plaint, defendant no. 1 to 3 have

published nearly 80 articles about the plaintiff containing false and

defamatory allegations and statements therein using the heading "fraud CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 2 of 22 nirmal baba" , followed by number of articles written in series which show

that this is a targeted, planned and malafide attack on the reputation of

the plaintiff. 6. The Defendant wrote an article "Fraud Nirmal Baba", which has

been elaborately discussed on Star News Channel. The Plaintiff has also

filed a similar suit for defamation against STAR T.V. which is pending

before this Hon‟ble Court. In the related article published on Defendant

No.3 website, also authored by defendant No.3, plaintiff has been

defamed by the defendants as the plaintiff in the said article has been

termed as cheat and fraudster, an extract from the same is reproduced

below: 7. As per the Plaintiff the Defendant‟s work is belittling and degrading.

Without there being any foundation and without taking any initiative of

verification, the defendants have been publishing the disparaging material

against the plaintiff as averred in the plaint. 8. The defendants have further used utter derogatory and defamatory

expressions qua the plaintiff by stating : 9. In another article published by defendants No.1 to 3 titled "fraud

Nirmal baba", defendant No.3, inter alia, falsely alleged that plaintiff

engages in black-marketing the samagams tickets. A nominal fee of INR

2000 is charged per person for participation in a samagam in order to

meet the expenses of the arrangements made for the samagams. The

defendant No.1-3 published the said article wherein it is falsely alleged

that plaintiff is engaged in black marketing the tickets of the Samagams

which is completely false and devoid of any merit. The defendant further

relies on an alleged sting operation conducted by the India TV on

13.4.2012. 10. In the same article the defendants falsely alleged that the plaintiff

induces the devotees to pay donation after samagams which as per the

plaintiff is completely untrue and boisterous. The Plaintiff further

submitted that the articles about the plaintiff on the website (defendant

no.3) are per se defamatory and based on falsity. The articles

misrepresent the facts and injure plaintiff‟s reputation. 11. The defendants have by all means tried to defame and malign the

plaintiff in every possible manner. Since then, defendant No.1 has

continuously and deliberately been publishing defaming articles and

ridiculing the plaintiff ("Nirmal Babaji"), the "Nirmal Darbar‟ and his

spiritual programs which are being aired on television. CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 4 of 22 Despite service, the Defendants have not come forward to contest the

present case; hence the defendants are proceeded ex parte. 12. While arguing the present application, Ms.Karnika Seth, Counsel

for the plaintiff submitted that the defendants have been carrying out

false and malicious propaganda against the plaintiff by publishing

defamatory statements against him. Counsel further submitted that these

defendants are not publishing any kind of news on their website but are

just ridiculing the plaintiff in one way or the other by carrying the

malicious campaign against him, for some vested interest. The articles

are per se highly defamatory and motivated by ulterior motives to attract

undue publicity and make fair gains. Defendant No.1 by its scurrilous

offensive, intimidatory, derogatory and malicious attack by publishing its

articles through its website „bhadas4media.com‟, being the Defendant

No.3 herein, inter alia, has been raising defamatory aspersions upon the

character, ability and integrity of the plaintiff (Babaji) and the "Nirmal

Darbar". As per the Counsel for the plaintiff, this is nothing but a

persistent and gross violation and misuse of the freedom of press and the

freedom of the plaintiff enshrined under the Constitution of India. 13. The Counsel for the plaintiff further invited my attention to page

73 of the documents, which is an article by the Defendants alleging

Nirmal Baba as "Fraud Nirmal baba", it would be apt to quote a few lines

from the said article as under:- CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 5 of 22 15. Counsel for the plaintiff also invited my attention to page no. 50 of

the documents wherein the defendant website has published defamatory

articles alleging nirmal darbar as "thug darbar", The plaintiff further

brought my attention to page 19 of the plaint where the plaintiff has

alleged that the defendants in their tirade against the plaintiff have

repeatedly accused him of wrong doing casting serious aspersions on his

integrity and honesty and character. He has repeatedly been called as a

"thug" and his darbar as „thug ka darbar‟. In one article titled "fraud

Nirmal Baba": "nirmal baba ke bol, khud hi khol rahe hain pol" at http: CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 6 of 22 16. Counsel further invited the attention of this Court to page 42 of the

documents wherein the defendants have gone to the extent of ridiculing

the plaintiff by alleging that the plaintiff has bribed channel P7 that

showed a program "Nirmal Baba ki alochna ka sach" who has been bribed

by the plaintiff to give their views in support of the plaintiff. Counsel for

the plaintiff also submits that the said articles and insertions have been

shown by the defendants on their Channel and on their website in

violation of the guidelines framed by the Press Council of India and also in

violation of Section 79 of the Information & Technology Act, 2000.

Counsel also submits that the Plaintiff served the defendants a legal

notice upon [email protected] sent for publishing all

defamatory articles and comments posted therein in compliance with the

IT (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011 and Section 79 of the IT Act,

2000. Counsel further submits that these defendants are not entitled to

any kind of exemptions as they themselves are the authors of the various

defamatory articles of the plaintiff. Counsel also stated that these

defendants are also not entitled to any protection on account of the fact

that despite being put to notice they have continued publishing material

against the plaintiff. CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 7 of 22 17. I have heard learned counsel for the plaintiff at considerable length

and perused the material placed on record. 18. The main grievance raised by the plaintiff is that the defendants

have defamed the plaintiff by publishing derogatory statements against

the plaintiff, which according to the counsel for the plaintiff is a malicious

campaign with some vested interest carried on by the defendants. For

instance, paragraph 15 of the plaint on page 29 the defendant falsely

alleged, that just to gain reputation the plaintiff has even bribed all the

t.v. channels, the important extract is quoted below: 19. Before dealing further with the contentions of the plaintiff it is

important to note that it is the Constitution of India which under Article

19 guarantees freedom of speech and expression to every citizen

including press, that is considered as the fourth estate, which takes upon

itself the responsibility to inform and educate the public through various

mediums and in this case, the internet more particularly the website of

the defendants. Article 19(1) (a) provides that all citizens shall have the

right to freedom of speech and expression. Article 19(2) states that

nothing in Sub-clause (a) of Clause (1) shall affect the operation of any

existing law, or prevent the State from making any law, in so far as such

law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred

by the said Sub-clause in the interests of the security of the State, CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 8 of 22 friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality, or

in relation to contempt of Court, defamation or incitement to an offence.

Although Article 19(1) (a) does not mention the freedom of the press, it is

the settled view that freedom of speech and expression includes freedom

of the press and circulation. The importance of this freedom enshrined in

the Constitution cannot be overemphasised as it forms a part of the

fundamental rights which are the touchstone of our democratic setup. The

Apex Court has time and again through various judicial pronouncements

reiterated their primacy and significance. It would be apt here to mention

one of the most relevant cases of Indian Express

Newspapers(Bombay) Pvt.Ltd & Ors. Vs. Union Of India &Ors .AIR

1986 SC 872 wherein the Apex court as early as 1985 held that freedom

of press is the heart of social and political intercourse and ithas assumed

the role of a public educator. The court in its powerful and poignant words

held that the constitutional guarantee of this freedom is not so much for

the benefit of the press as it is for the benefit of the public as it exposes

the weaknesses of the governments and makes an informed electorate.

The court also held that: 20. The court thus realised the power of the press to make or mar a

country‟s progress with its actions. Here it would also be relevant to refer

to the case of Life Insurance Corporation of India & Union of India

&Anr. vs. Prof Manu bhai D. Shah & Cinemart Foundation AIR

1993 SC 171, wherein the Court held that freedom of speech to be a

basic human right in the following words: Freedom of speech and expression is thus a natural right which a
 human being acquires on birth. It is, therefore, a basic human
 right. "Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and
 expression; the right includes freedom to hold opinions without
 interference and to seek and receive and impart information and
 ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers" proclaims
 the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948). The People of
 India declared in the Preamble of the Constitution which they
 gave unto themselves their resolve to secure to all citizens liberty
 of thought and expression. The words 'freedom of speech and expression' must, therefore,
 be broadly construed to include the freedom to circulate one's
 views by words of mouth or in writing or through audio-visual
 instrumentalities. It, therefore, includes the right to propagate
 one's views through the print media or through any other
 communication channel e.g. the radio and the television. Every
 citizen of this free country, therefore, has the right to air his or
 her views through the printing and/or the electronic media
 subject of course to permissible restrictions imposed under Article 19(2) of the Constitution." 21. It was further held that the freedom to air ones views is the life

line of any democratic institution and any attempt to stifle, suffocate or

gag this right would sound a death-knell to democracy and would help

usher in autocracy or dictatorship. It also held that: CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 10 of 22 22. The Apex Court in the recent ruling of Ramlila Maidan Incident

vs. Home Secretary, UOI &Ors. 2012(2)SCALE 682gave an entire

treatise on the freedom of speech and expression and held that it is the CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 11 of 22 bulwark of a democratic government and is essential for proper

functioning of the democratic process. 23. Thus the freedom of speech and expression and that of the press is

amenable to reasonable restrictions as per Article 19(2) which includes

defamation. Nothing can be dearer to a person than his own reputation

and goodwill and to intentionally injure and attack it in the garb of

freedom of speech and expression is the most unpropitious blow to this

freedom. This court in the celebrated judgement of Ram Jethmalani vs.

Subramanium Swamy 126(2006)DLT 535 defined defamation as a

public communication which tends to injure the reputation of another. It

dwelled upon the balance between the freedom of expression vis a vis

right to reputation and held that the law of defamation, by making

actionable certain utterances, runs counter to another widely accepted

legal tenet - the right to freedom of expression, but the two have been

harmonised by judicial process so that an individual's right of privacy and

protection of honour and reputation is preserved and at the same time

the public interest in free speech is also protected. It further held that: 24. Thus the right to sue for defamation should not have a chilling

effect on matters of public importance and freeze the autonomy to CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 12 of 22 express their opinions and ideas. This Court though in the context of

defamation as a criminal offence in the case of Rajan Bihari Lal Raheja

& Ors. Vs. M/s Planman Consulting India Pvt. Ltd

&Anr.185(2011)DLT 154 referred to the oft-quoted pronouncement in

Attorney General v. Times Newspaper Ltd. (1973)3 AllER 54

wherein the Supreme Court observed that the freedom of expression has

following four broad social purposes to serve: 25. The court in Rajan Bihari (supra) held that every individual has a

right to protect his reputation and goodwill and even a journalist has no

unfettered right to make defamatory statement about a person to a third

person or persons without lawful and justifiable basis. This right of an

individual was recognized by the Supreme Court in the matter of State of

Bihar v. Lal Krishna Advani AIR 2003 SC 3357 wherein it was

observed that reputation is an integral and important aspect of dignity of

every individual. The right to preserve one's reputation is acknowledged

as a right in rem i.e. a right against the entire world. The court however

eloquently gauged the dilemma holding the law of defamation as a

culmination of conflict between the right of the individual and the right of CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 13 of 22 the society to be informed. It further held and it is pertinent to reproduce

the relevant para as under: 26. Hence, what has to be achieved is the balance between the right of

freedom of speech and the right to one‟s reputation and not to sacrifice

any of the two to keep our vibrant democracy alive. In the present case

as well this court is faced with the situation where the defendants have

levelled allegations against the plaintiff who claims himself to be a

spiritual guru and a revered saint and as the defendants did not appear

before the court despite the knowledge of the present proceedings the

court is thus left to till and toil to examine prima facie the veracity of the

allegations imputed. 27. Our country was perceived as the land of the sadhus and saints

since time immemorial where karma and spirituality took precedence over

economic development. Though we have come a long way, as the world

anointed us as the next economic superpower, the mystical sadhus and

the Godmen have not left the picture, the difference may be that some of

the sadhus travel by a private jet and have a turnover worth crores

making even the business tycoons feel jittery. The superstitions and CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 14 of 22 beliefs of people are manifested in various forms like astrology,

witchcraft, different therapies and the like. The God Market that has come

about in India has struck a chord abroad and the Babas and saints,

innumerable and diverse have a tutelage they boast of including a nobody

to a celebrity. Whether India or abroad, people all over are afflicted with

problems, different in magnitude and type but for each of them, their

individual problem or misery, is the biggest crisis of their lives and anyone

who can claim to heal or provide a shortcut to alleviate their pain and

suffering occupies the stature of God in their lives . The people who are

followers of various saints and Godmen believe in their miraculous healing

powers through which bodily afflictions or mental agony or pain gets

cured. This is opposed to the earlier view where the saint shared a

relation of a guru and a disciple and the guru was the master and teacher

of various scriptures but now some of them claim to have mystical

powers and claim to know the inner worlds and minds of their followers. It

is the stories of their miraculous healing that make them what they are

and the media augments their cause further. These Godmen resort to

various methods and each of them claim to be unique and have an

individual connection with the Almighty. Let this not be understood to

mean that there is dearth of saints who enjoy real spiritual powers and

are alleviated souls. Such saints often live a life in oblivion. To quote an

example Swami Dayanand Saraswati who was a great spiritual leader

and a social reformer found his Spiritual Guru in a blind man, named,

Swami Virjanand, who lived in a hut, and after having received lessons CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 15 of 22 at the feet of his spiritual Guru, he asked him as to what he could offer

him as Guru-Dakshina- the Guru replied "Spread my message to the

world and that will be my Guru Dakshina". Such were the saints that

this country have produced and known. 28. The plaintiff claiming to be a spiritual guru on directions of this

court placed on record various videos of the Samagams held by the

plaintiff where his devotees have expressed their gratitude to him for

making their lives problem free. The videos also depict the various cures

and remedies propagated by him. It would be pertinent here to quote at

least one of them: Baba: Aisa karo puri chhole baba ko yad kar do char garibo
 ko khila do, prabhu ki zyada kripaa ayegi." 29. The above instance is only one odd out of the basket and any

prudent person with average intelligence would be in rapt disbelief if such

a remedy would get him rid of the difficulties he is facing in his life. Prima

facie, these do not appear as logical to a rational mind but the whole

edifice of this God market and its nuances is based on the belief system of

people. This court cannot help but sound a word of caution that this

sudden resurgence of the babas who claims to have mystical powers and

give all kind of illogical solutions to overcome the miseries of people has

amplified and glorified superstition and has turned the clock back of

development in our country. CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 16 of 22 30. The media today is the messiah of the masses and it influences

people‟s thoughts, actions and opinions on the most crucial of issues,

keeping public debate alive. However with this power comes the

responsibility to verify news and not generate in public; bias, hostility or

enmity. However it cannot shy away from the fact that the media inter se,

print, electronic and internet, etc .have cut throat competition and in the

bid to outdo each other has tremendous pressure in terms of hits,

circulations, viewership, commonly referred to as TRP. In the race to grab

eyeballs it sensationalises news and information. It will not be incorrect to

say that that the information revolution has proved to be a double edged

sword with its omnipresence and drive to dig into every nook and corner

for news and dissect and thereby corrode the lives of public figures. The

potent media has the power to massacre the reputation and lives of many

and has made many glorified saints and Gods out of nobody in the cloak

of informing and creating awareness. 31. In the present case on perusing through the content of the website

of the defendants placed on record, it appears that the defendants have a

series of articles against the plaintiff calling him names like "thug baba",

"Chor", "fraud nirmal darbar", darbar as "thug darbar". Not commenting

on the veracity of the allegations levelled against the plaintiff, the

defendants have in the opinion of this court gone a step ahead of its

rights of freedom of press. It also cannot be forgotten that the reach of

the internet as a medium is vast and far reaching than print and

electronic and the click of a mouse can disseminate in a split second the CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 17 of 22 views of anyone. Having said this, the plaintiff who claims himself to be

a Baba and Spiritual Guide and through his Samagams and telecast of

his discourses through various T.V. Channels, like other public figures is

under constant public and media gaze, should not be sensitive to and

rather should be open to criticism and scrutiny. The filing of defamation

suit is a right of the plaintiff but the same cannot be allowed to become a

lethal weapon in sabotaging the freedom of the press. The print and the

electronic media being the eyes and ears of the citizens, its freedom

cannot be unreasonably trampled upon by resorting to legal processes

and unreasonably dragging them to face defamation and contempt cases

as it will lead to sounding a death knell for democracy. But at the same

time, the press and the media cannot denigrate others with a targeted

campaign without any basis and proper verification. 32. This court would like to quote that in the case of Ram Jethmalani (supra) a passage from the famous Othello was culled out and it states; A

good name is worth more than good riches. (Shakespear's Othello, Act-II,

Scene III, pp.167):- Good name in man and woman, dear my Lord is the

immediate jewel of their souls; Who steals my purse, steals trash; It‟s

something, nothing; T'was mine, it‟s his, and has been slate to

thousands; But he that filches from me my good name, Robs me of that

which not enriches him and makes me poor indeed. Therefore, in my

considerable view, nobody has any right, not even the media or website

operators to disparage, defame, disrepute or malign the reputation of any

person unless they are in possession of sufficient material or unbiased CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 18 of 22 information clearly pointing out to any kind of illegal or other nefarious

activities of such persons. Undoubtedly, the media or any such modes of

communication have to be very careful when the question comes of

reputation or esteem of any person or the institution involved as any

irresponsible or reckless campaign by media or these sites can play havoc

with the esteem, prestige, reputation and goodwill of any person. It takes

years and decades to build reputation or goodwill be it a politician, public

figure, bureaucrat, social worker, saint or a spiritual leader but any

irresponsible act on the part of the media can result in ruining the image

and reputation of such person which may cause incalculable and

irreversible damage to the prestige and reputation of such a person. Be

that as it may, one cannot lose sight of the fact that all these public

personalities whether in political, social or spiritual field are always under

the public gaze and if such people commit any unduly act or indulge into

any nefarious or illegal activity or do not maintain self restrain in their

public utterances or commit any act demeaning their position and status

then later on they cannot complain that they stand defamed, disreputed

or ridiculed by media or other websites. The media is watching them 24X7

as they owe a duty to the society to expose such people indulging into

illegal, immoral, unruly acts prejudicial or inimical to threaten peace,

harmony and tranquillity of the society. The spiritual Babas and Sadhus

who have entered into our lives through the electronic media and other

websites are no exception to the said self-restraint norms and

regulations. On the direction given by this court, the plaintiff had placed CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 19 of 22 on record some of the CD‟s of his alleged spiritual discourses including the

CD of Channel P-7. This court has viewed all these CDs and to the

surprise of the court the plaintiff has selectively placed the CD‟s and that

too after editing the same. Be that as it may, having accessed through

some of the videos of the samagams on the internet, the objectionable

solutions being offered in the alleged spiritual discourse of the plaintiff are

easily discernible. There can be no objection if any Sadhu or Saint gives

any kind of spiritual discourse and to that extent this court also feels that

without going into the intellectual and spiritual background of the plaintiff

he has unfettered right to give spiritual discourse. This cannot be a cause

of any heart burn but the precise question is, whether such spiritual

babas or the plaintiff in their lectures or discourses can suggest solutions

which are absurd, irrational, illogical, unfathomable and unacceptable.

The plaintiff advising his disciples in the Samagams and through media,

millions of people watching television to open black purses at the time of

showering of his blessings then the same will result in inflow of money to

them and likewise to tell people to eat Rabri, Masala Dosa or Paani Poori

to overcome their miseries, are the kind of solutions which are highly

irrational, weird and unacceptable to commonsensical notions, bound to

result in backlash by the media and other such agencies. This is exactly

what has happened that the plaintiff Nirmal Baba because of his totally

illogical and unacceptable solutions, he is being termed as fraudster,

Thag, Natwar Lal and so on and so forth by the defendants. The plaintiff

cannot expect the media to be a silent spectator and to allow such a CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 20 of 22 person to exploit the sentiments of the people who in their innocence

would easily believe in whatever such kind of Babas tell their disciples to

do. One cannot be oblivious of the fact that the people who approach

these Babas are in search of easy solutions to their agonies be it relating

to health, poverty, unemployment, disharmony in the family etc and there

is no dearth of such people not only in our country but in the whole world

falling into the traps of the Babas and Sadhus. It is a well-known fact that

the Indian Babas are quite popular not here alone but in the rest of the

world and the kind of riches these Babas have acquired and their life style

and affluence speaks for itself. 33. Hence, in the light of above discussion and to balance the equities,

this court is of the considered view that it is a fit case for the grant of a

conditional injunction. The defendants are accordingly restrained from

licensing, writing, publishing, hosting or advertising any defamatory

material against the plaintiff on their website or through any other

print/electronic media to defame the reputation of the plaintiff subject to

the condition that the plaintiff also restrains himself in future from giving

any kind of absurd or illogical solutions to his disciples and others, and,

confines his discourses to all such kind of teachings through which the life

of common man can improve and improve in the right direction. 34. Nothing stated hereinabove shall be taken to be an expression of

opinion on the merits of the case. CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 21 of 22 35. The application stands disposed of in above terms. KAILASH GAMBHIR, J

September 14, 2012 CS(OS) No. 1518/2012 Page 22 of 22