Crl.O.P.No.17269 of 2015 has been filed by the accused No.2 to quash

 the proceedings against him in C.C.No.2740 of 2015 on the file of the X

 Metropolitan Magistrate, Saidapet, Chennai. Crl.O.P.No.21603 of 2015 has been filed by the accused No.1 to quash

 the proceedings against him in C.C.No.2740 of 2015 on the file of the X

 Metropolitan Magistrate, Saidapet, Chennai. 2. The respondent herein is a practicing advocate in Chennai. She

 lodged a complaint before the Commissioner of Police, Chennai, on

 27.03.2015 stating that the accused Balaji Kumar is an employee of Tata

 Consultancy Services, Mumbai. She further stated that the said Balaji

 Kumar has endorsed the view of one Adiraman who has depicted women

 in scandalize manner by posting a cartoon which captioned 'before

 marriage' and 'after marriage' wherein he has scandalously mentioned

 that girls are all shaved by father prior to marriage and by husband after

 marriage which can be seen by the photographs annexed with the said

 complaint. She further stated that the said Balaji Kumar has lowered the

 image of women among the right thinking and reasonable people in the

 society and thereby committed an offence which is defamatory and

 scandalous and requested to take action against him. 3. The said complaint was forwarded to the Inspector of Police, Cyber

 Crime Cell, Central Crime Branch, Chennai–7. The Inspector of Police,
http://www.judis.nic.in 3 Cyber Crime Cell, has conducted an enquiry and closed the said complaint

 and dropped further action on the said complaint and informed the same

 to the respondent on 15.04.2015. In the meanwhile, the respondent has

 filed a petition in Crl.O.P.No.11292 of 2015 before this court to direct the

 Inspector of Police, Cyber Crime, to register an FIR on the basis of the

 complaint given by her dated 27.03.2015. This court by the order dated

 29.04.2015, taking into consideration that the Inspector of Police, Cyber

 Crime, has closed the said complaint, closed the aforesaid petition with

 liberty to the respondent herein to work out her remedies in the manner

 known to law. Thereafter, the respondent has filed a private complaint

 before the XI Metropolitan Magistrate, Saidapet, Chennai, alleging that the

 Accused Nos.1 and 2 have committed offence against women as

 envisaged under Section 67 of Information Technology Act, Section 354

 (D) and 509 of IPC and hence, they should be tried and punished for the

 aforesaid offences. 4. The learned XI Metropolitan Magistrate, after recording sworn

 statement of the respondent herein under Section 200 of Cr.P.C., and

 perusing the complaint and other materials enclosed with the complaint,

 has taken case on file in C.C.No.2740 of 2015 and issued summons to the

 accused Nos.1 and 2. The accused Nos.1 and 2, after receipt of the

 summons, filed the present petitions under Section 482 Cr.P.C., to quash

 the proceedings against them in the aforesaid C.C.

http://www.judis.nic.in 5. The learned counsel for the petitioners has submitted that no prima 4 facie case is made out against the petitioners under Section 67 of the

 Information Technology Act and under Sections 354 D and 509 IPC. They

 further submitted that since Uniform Resource Locator (URL) which is the

 address of a web page of the disputed content was not found on the face-

 book accounts of Balaji Kumar, the Inspector of Police, Cyber Crime, has

 dropped further action on the complaint filed by the respondent. They

 further submitted that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has already struck

 down Section 66-A of the Information Technology Act as unconstitutional

 and hence, prosecution cannot be launched against the petitioners herein.

 They further submitted that the respondent herein made inconsistent

 statement in the complaint lodged before the police, in the complaint filed

 before the XI Metropolitan Magistrate and in the sworn statement and

 therefore, the allegations made by the respondent/complainant are so

 absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent person

 can ever reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for

 proceeding against the petitioners. 6. The learned counsel for the petitioners further submitted that the

 respondent has not produced any material to show that the first accused

 has posted the alleged photo in his face-book and the second accused

 gave like. They further submitted that even assuming that the first

 accused has posted the said photo in his face-book and the second

 accused has given like to the said picture message, it cannot be said that

 they have committed any offence. They further submitted that the

 respondent herein is the own sister of the second accused's father-in-law
http://www.judis.nic.in 5 and there is a family dispute between them and due to the said dispute, to

 harass the second accused, she filed a false complaint. They further

 submitted that since the first accused is also working with the second

 accused in the software company, the respondent roped the first accused

 also in the above complaint and therefore, they prayed to quash the

 proceedings against them. In support of their contentions, they relied

 upon the decision in Shreya Singhal Union of India (2015) 3 MLJ 162

 (SC) 7. Per contra, the respondent/party-in-person has submitted that the

 first accused has posted the objectionable photo in his face-book account

 in a public domain wherein it depicts that women in their life is a burden /

 difficulty / nuisance / annoyance / disturbance / swindlers in the men's

 life, more particularly, before marriage, they are

 burden/difficulty/nuisance/annoyance/disturbance/swindler to her father

 and after marriage, they are burden / difficulty / nuisance / annoyance /

 disturbance / swindlers to her husband. In other words, the women are

 shaving their fathers head before marriage and shaving their husbands

 head after marriage. She further submitted that the second accused gave

 'like' for the aforesaid photo and hence they have committed the offence

 punishable under Section 67 of the Information Technology Act, under Section 354-D and 509 of IPC. She further submitted that inspite of URL

 number has been sent by her in Whatsapp and also by way of SMS, the

 Inspector of Police, Cyber Crime, has purposely with a view to help the

 accused, delayed to check the face-book account of the accused persons
http://www.judis.nic.in 6 and taking advantage of the same, the accused persons have deleted the

 said photos from their face-book account. She further submitted that the

 photos were posted in the face-book account of the accused persons

 who depicted women in worst form that too, in the public domain and

 hence, a prima facie case is made out against them and therefore, she

 prayed to dismiss the above petitions. 8. In support of the aforesaid contentions, the respondent/party-in-

 person relied upon the following decisions: Singh (2003) Cri.L.J 2322 (1) (Supreme Court) 9. The respondent herein has filed a private complaint alleging that on

 15.03.2015, she came across a photo in her face-book account wherein it

 depicted that women in their life is a burden / difficulty / nuisance /

 annoyance / disturbance / swindlers in men's life, more particularly, before

 marriage, they are burden to their fathers and after marriage, they are

 burden to their husbands and also stated that in other words, the women

 are shaving their fathers head before marriage and shaving their

 husbands head after marriage and the said photo was posted by the first

 accused in the face-book account and the second accused gave 'like' for

 the said photo and hence, they have committed offences punishable under Section 67 of the Information Technology Act, under Section 354-D and 509 of IPC. 10. Section 67 of the Information Technology Act reads thus:- 11.Section 354 -D of IPC reads thus: Provided that such conduct shall not amount to stalking if the man
 who pursued it proves that— 1. it was pursued for the purpose of preventing or detecting
 crime and the man accused of stalking had been entrusted
 with the responsibility of prevention and detection of crime
 by the State; or 2. it was pursued under any law or to comply with any
 condition or requirement imposed by any person under any
 law; or 3. in the particular circumstances such conduct was
 reasonable and justified. (2) Whoever commits the offence of stalking shall be punished on
 first conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term
 which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine;
 and be punished on a second or subsequent conviction, with
http://www.judis.nic.in
 imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to 9 five years, and shall also be liable to fine. 1 Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 ” 12. Section 509 of IPC reads as follows:- 13. In this case, the alleged photo which was said to have been posted

 in the face book account has been filed by the petitioners along with the

 typed set of papers. In the said photograph, two captions are mentioned;

 one is “before marriage” and another one is “after marriage”. In the

 photograph containing the caption “before marriage”, it appears that about

 six or seven persons are standing, one person is mentioned as “Boy”;

 another person is mentioned as “Daughter”; third person is mentioned as

 “Dad”. In that photograph, the person who is shown as “Dad” has put his

 hand on the head of the person who is shown as “Daughter”. The person

 who is shown as 'Boy' is watching the same. In the photograph which is

 mentioned as “after marriage” one person is mentioned as 'husband' and

 another person is mentioned as 'wife' and the third person is mentioned

 as 'uncle'. In that photograph, the person who is mentioned as 'husband'

 has put one of his hands on the head of the person who is mentioned as
http://www.judis.nic.in 10 'wife' and the person who is mentioned as 'uncle' watching the same.

 From the said photographs, it cannot be said that any lascivious or

 prurient interest materials are published which tends to deprave and

 corrupt persons. So, the Provision of Section 67 of the Information

 Technology Act will not attract. Sections 354-D and 509 of IPC also will

 not attract. 14. The statements made by the respondent/complainant in the

 complaint lodged before the police and the complaint filed before the

 Magistrate and the sworn statement also would show that the complainant

 herself could not came to just conclusion as to what kind of message has

 been depicted in the said photographs. 15. In the complaint filed before the police, she has stated as follows: 16.03.2015. The said Balaji Kumar has endorsed the view of
 one Adiraman who has depicted women in Scandalize
 manner by posting a cartoon which captioned before marriage
 and after marriage wherein he had scandalously mentioned
 that girls are all shaved by father prior to marriage and by
 husband after marriage which can be seen by the
 photographs annexed with this complaint below.”

http://www.judis.nic.in 16. In the complaint filed before the Magistrate, she has stated as 11 follows: 17. In the sworn statement, which was recorded under Section 200 Cr.P.C, the respondent has stated as follows: 18. From the reading of the aforesaid statement, it is clear that the

 sworn statement given by the respondent under Section 200 Cr.P.C., is

 totally against the allegation made in the complaint filed before the

 Magistrate. In the complaint filed before the Magistrate, she has stated

 that the photo depicts that women in their life is a burden / difficulty /

 nuisance / annoyance / disturbance / swindlers before marriage to their

 fathers and after marriage to their husbands. In other words, the women

 are shaving their fathers head before marriage and shaving their

 husband's head after marriage. Whereas in the sworn statement recorded

 under Section 200 Cr.P.C., she has stated that the aforesaid photo depicts

 that before marriage, the father was extracting money from her and

 deprive the income of the working daughter and after marriage, the

 husband is extracting money from and out of the income of the working

 wife. So it is clear that the respondent herself is not sure what kind of

 message has been given by the aforesaid photo. 19. If it is assumed that the aforesaid photo depicts the message as

 stated by the respondent in her sworn statement, it cannot be said that

 the said message scandalize the women. On the contrary, it just exposes

 the exploitation being done by the parents with their working daughters

 for extracting money and after marriage the husbands extracting money

 by exploiting their innocent wives. So, it can be taken as a message given

 to the public for creating awareness. Hence, at no stretch of imagination it
http://www.judis.nic.in 13 can be said that the aforesaid message would attract any of the penal

 provisions of law. 20. In the leading case in the State of Haryana and others Vs.

 CH.Bhajanlal and others (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court by way of

 illustration stated seven categories of cases where the extraordinary

 power under Article 226 or inherent power under Section 482 Cr.P.C., can

 be exercised by the High Court either to prevent abuse of process of any

 court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice. The said seven categories

 are extracted hereunder:- 21. This court is of the view that this case will fall under the category

 of '5' i.e., where the allegation made in the FIR or complaint are so absurd

 or inherently improbable on the basis of which, no prudent person can

 ever reach the just conclusion that there is a sufficient ground for

 proceeding against the accused. In this case, as already pointed out that

 the aforesaid photo, according to the respondent, is an objectionable one,

 but the sworn statement of the respondent would clearly show that it is

 only a message given to the public for creating awareness. Therefore, it

 cannot be said that the petitioners herein have committed offence

 punishable under the aforesaid sections . 22. The other citations relied upon by the respondent are not relevant

 for this case. http://www.judis.nic.in 23. The decision relied upon by the petitioners i.e. Shreya Singhal 15 Union of India (2015) 3 MLJ 162 (SC) is relating to struck down of Section 66-A of the Information Technology Act and the said judgment

 also not relevant to decide this case. 24. For the aforesaid reasons, this court is of the view that the

 continuance of the proceedings against the petitioners herein would

 amount to abuse of process of the court and hence, the same is liable to

 be quashed. Accordingly, these petitions are allowed. Consequently, the

 connected miscellaneous petitions are closed. The proceedings against the

 petitioners herein in C.C.No.2740 of 2015 on the file of the learned XI

 Metropolitan Magistrate, Saidapet, are quashed. 22.01.2019

 gv
 Index : Yes/No
 Speaking/Non-speaking order

 To
 The XI Metropolitan Magistrate,

 Saidapet. http://www.judis.nic.in 16 P. RAJAMANICKAM., J. gv

 Pre-delivery Orders made in
 CRL.OP.Nos.17269 & 21603 OF 2015
 and
 MP.Nos.1+1 of 2015 & 3+3 of 2015 & 4+4 of 2015

 22.01.2019

http://www.judis.nic.in