1. Vide this judgment, this court shall decide the complaint
filed by the complainant under section 138 of the Negotiable
Instrument Act (hereinafter referred to as NI Act ) against the
accused for dishonour of cheque bearing no.000055 dated
16.03.2018 for Rs 4,45,000/- (hereinafter referred to as cheque in
question). 2. The case of the complainant in brief is that the accused and
the complainant had friendly relations with each other. In the
month of July 2017, the accused approached the complainant for a
loan of Rs 4,45,000/- for a period of 6 months for her business
purpose. The complainant gave the loan of Rs 4,45,000/- to the
accused. In 2nd week of March 2018, after much persuasion, the
accused gave the complainant the cheque in question for
repayment of the loan amount. The cheque in question was
dishonoured with remarks insufficient funds. Thereafter the
complainant issued legal demand notice to the accused. The
accused failed to make the payment within 15 days of its receipt,
which resulted in the present complaint. Digitally signed
 by SURABHI
 RASTOGI
 SURABHI Date: 3. In support of this complaint, the complainant tendered his
evidence by way of affidavit and relied on the following
documents: 4. Upon appreciation of pre-summoning evidence, accused was
summoned for the offence u/s 138 NI Act. Notice of accusation u/s
251 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (hereinafter referred to
as CrPC ) was issued against the accused. In the notice accused had
stated that she does not know the complainant and is not having
friendly relations with him. She further stated that she has never
met the complainant and had not taken loan of Rs 4,45,000 from
the complainant. It was further stated that she and her husband
were facing some financial difficulty and some Mr. Gaurav, who is
friend of her husband and also a local financer, assured them to
help and took her three blank signed cheques in January 2017 for
facilitating loan to her husband. The said loan was never provided
to them and Mr. Gaurav also did not return them cheques. It was
later stated that in September 2017 she came to know that Mr.
Gaurav expired. She had denied receiving legal demand notice. Digitally 5. Application u/s 145(2) NI Act was allowed, and the accused
 signed by
 SURABHI
 SURABHI RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: 6. Statement of accused under Section 313 CrPC read with Section 281 CrPC was recorded and all incriminating evidence
were put to her. During her statement she has stated that she did
not know the complaint at all and had not approached him for loan
and no loan of Rs 4,45,000 was ever advanced by the complainant.
It was then stated that cheque in question bears her signature but
she had not filled particulars on the cheque in question. It was then
stated that she is astrologer by profession. It was then stated that
she had provided services to the brother of the complainant i.e. Mr.
Gaurav Khera. It was further stated that the cheque in question was
given as security to Mr. Gaurav Khera, in case, she fail to do the
work assigned to me by him. She had denied receiving legal
demand notice and mentioned that the address mentioned on legal
demand notice belong to her father. It was then stated that she did
not know whom to contact for return of the cheque and came to
know about misuse of cheque when she received warrants from the
court. Accused had stated that he wishes to lead lead and
examined himself as witness. DW1/accused was examined, cross
examined and discharged. Then the matter was fixed for final
arguments. Digitally signed
 by SURABHI
 RASTOGI
 SURABHI Date: 7. Arguments were advanced by the Ld. counsel of the
complainant and the accused. 8. I have heard counsel for parties, perused the record and have
gone through relevant provisions of law. The following points
required determination in the present case: LAW UNDER CONSIDERATION 9. To bring home the guilt of the accused, the complainant is duty-
bound to prove the following ingredients of Section 138 NI Act as
held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case titled
Aparna A. Shah v M/s Sheth Developers P. Ltd & Anr. (2013) 8
SCC 7 Digitally signed by SURABHI SURABHI RASTOGI Date: RASTOGI 2025.09.27 (i) a person must have drawn a cheque on an 16:14:18
 +0530

 account maintained by him in a bank for payment
 of a certain amount of money to another person
 from out of that account; (ii) the cheque should have been issued for the
 discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or other
 liability; Ct. Case No. 15905/2018 27.09.2025 5 of 14 Ct. Case No. 15905/2018 Jatin Khera vs Sneha Dogra (iii) that cheque has been presented to the bank
 within six months from the date on which it is
 drawn or within the period of its validity,
 whichever is earlier; (iv) that cheque is returned by the bank unpaid,
 either because the amount of money standing to
 the credit of the account is insufficient to honour
 the cheque or because it exceeds the amount
 arranged to be paid from that account by an
 agreement made with the bank; (v) the payee or the holder in due course of the
 cheque makes a demand for the payment of the
 said amount of money by giving a notice in
 writing, to the drawer of the cheque, within 15
 days of the receipt of information by him from the
 bank regarding the return of the cheque as unpaid; (vi) the drawer of such cheque fails to make
 payment of the said amount of money to the payee
 or the holder in due course of the cheque within 15
 days of the receipt of the said notice. 10. Further, once the accused had admitted his signature on the
cheque in question, the presumption u/s 139 NI Act and Section
118 (a) of the NI Act becomes applicable. Section 118 (a) of the NI Act provides,
 Until the contrary is proved, the following
 presumptions shall be made:--(a)of consideration --that every negotiable instrument was made or
 drawn for consideration, and that every such
 Digitally
 signed by
 SURABHI
 instrument, when it has been accepted, indorsed, SURABHI RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: Digitally
 signed by
 SURABHI 12. First and foremost it is important to note that the accused SURABHI RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: 13. First and foremost it is essential to consider Section 118(g) of the NI Act. As per which- Until the contrary is proved, the following
 presumptions shall be made:--(g) that the
 holder is holder in due course --that holder
 of negotiable instrument is a holder in due
 course. Provided that where the instrument
 has been obtained from its lawful owner, or
 from any person in lawful custody thereof,
 by means of an offence or fraud, or has
 been obtained from the maker or acceptor
 thereof, by means of an offence or fraud or Digitally
 signed by
 for unlawful consideration, the burden to SURABHI
 SURABHI
 RASTOGI

 prove that he is holder in due course lies on RASTOGI Date: 14. The accused has taken other defence that the complainant
does not have money lender license and therefore this complaint is
not maintainable. For this defence, it is important to take into
consideration, the judgment of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the
case titled Kajal vs. Viaks Marwah, CrL A No. 870, 1520 to 1524
of 2013 12. It is next contended by the learned counsel
 for the respondent that the
 appellant/complainant is a money lender since
 she had advanced loan not only to the
 respondent but also to other persons, namely,
 Smt. Gomti Dutta and Ms. Keshvi Dutta. He
 has also pointed out that admittedly as many as Digitally
 24 complaints under Section 138 of the signed by
 SURABHI
 Negotiable Instruments Act were filed by the SURABHI RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: sheet brought on record by the complainant. Nothing has been
brought on record by the accused to show that she was engaged in
the astrology services and provided the services to Mr. Gaurav.
Accused has not disclosed details of services offered to Mr. Gaurav
and the fact that same was not served that resulted in her issuing
the cheque in question to Mr. Gaurav. Further, the accused has also
given different version that resulted in issuance of cheque in
question in her notice of accusation u/s 251 CrPC, where she stated
that Mr. Gaurav was to arrange for some loan and the cheque in
question was issued and given to Mr. Gaurav for the same. Further
in the notice u/s 251 CrPC, the accused has stated that she had
given 3 cheques to Mr. Gaurav but in evidence she has stated that
she had given only one or two cheque to Mr. Gaurav. Apart from
that no complaint regarding misuse of cheques was made by the
accused. CONCLUSION 16. From the above it can be concluded that the cheque in
question was issued on the bank account maintained by the Digitally
 signed by
 SURABHI
 SURABHI RASTOGI

accused. This cheque was presented for encashment but was RASTOGI Date: 17. The accused, Ms. Sneha Dogra, is held guilty for the offence
punishable under Section 138 NI Act and is convicted under Section 138 of the NI Act in the present case. This judgment contains 14 pages, and each page bears my
signature. Accused be now heard on the quantum of sentence. The convict has been apprised that he can avail the services of
LAC for pursuing higher remedies including filing of appeal
against the aforesaid judgment. The convict has also been apprised
about the address and contact of concerned official from DLSA,
Dwarka Court, South-West, Delhi i.e. Administrative Block,
Ground Floor, Dwarka Court, New Delhi, Phone No. 28041480,
email id : [email protected] Digitally signed SURABHI by SURABHI
 RASTOGI
 RASTOGI Date: 2025.09.27
 16:16:20 +0530

 (SURABHI RASTOGI)
 JMFC (NI Act)-01
 DWARKA COURT,
 SWD, DELHI

Ct. Case No. 15905/2018 27.09.2025 14 of 14