Order No. 09.02.2024 01. 1. Heard learned counsel for the Petitioner and the State. 2. By means of this application, the Petitioner seeks to invoke the
 extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India, seeking to quash the F.I.R. in connection with
 Cyber Crime & Economic Offence, Bhubaneswar P.S. Case No.11
 of 2022 registered under Section 228(A) & 500 of the I.P.C. read
 with Section 67(A) of the I.T. Act corresponding to C.T. Case
 No.1452 of 2022 pending in the court of the learned S.D.J.M.,
 Bhubaneswar. 3. The background facts of the case are that, on 01.02.2022 Opp.
 Party No.5 namely Bishnu Priya Mohapatra, w/o. Kailash Ch.
 Mohapatra lodged a complaint before the SP, CID, CB, Buxi Bazar,
 Cuttack alleging therein that she was victim in Khandagiri P.S. Case
 No.372 of 2018 for the offences under Sections 376 / 384 / 506 , I.P.C.
 In the said case the present Petitioner is an accused, and after Page 1 of 6 // 2 //

registration of the said F.I.R., the Petitioner was arrested on
22.07.2019. Before his arrest, the Petitioner on 20.06.2019 misusing
the social media, in his Facabook account had posted some
derogatory, defamatory and misleading information against her
(Opp. Party No.5), wherein he too had uploaded the F.I.R. copy of
Khandagiri P.S. Case No.372 of 2018. It is further alleged that, 12
persons liked the aforesaid derogatory/ defamatory posting in the
Facebook. On the basis of the aforesaid complaint, Bhubaneswar
Cyber Crime & Economic Offence No.11 of 2012 registered the
complaint under Sections 228(A) & 500 of the I.P.C. and under Section 67(A) of the I.T. Act against the Petitioner. 4. According to the learned counsel for the Petitioner, the allegations
are false, baseless and the Petitioner is no way connected with the
alleged offence/crime, for which F.I.R. has been lodged. The learned
counsel for the Petitioner submitted that there is absolutely no prima
facie case and material constituting the offence is made out against
the Petitioner under Section 67(A) of the I.T. Act from the F.I.R.
story and other connected materials. 5. Learned counsel for the Petitioner further submits that, as far as
the offence under Sections 228(A) & 500 , I.P.C. are concerned, both
the offences prescribes punishment for a period of only two years
imprisonment. According to the learned counsel, as per the F.I.R.,
the alleged occurrence took place on 20.06.2019 and the complaint
was lodged with the police on 05.03.2022, which is quite belated.
The primary contention of the learned counsel for the Petitioner
seeking quashing of the F.I.R. is that the cause of action of the
alleged incident has taken place at Baseli Sahi, Puri, whereas the Page 2 of 6 // 3 //

complaint has been registered by the Cyber Crime & Economic
Offence at Bhubaneswar, and therefore it has no territorial
jurisdiction to investigate into the complaint. He further submits
that, the occurrence spot being 60 kms. away from the Police Station
where the F.I.R. has been lodged, the investigation into the said
F.I.R. cannot be proceeded and the same is liable to be quashed. 6. Learned counsel for the State on the other hand vehemently
opposed the contentions raised by the learned counsel for the
Petitioner and submitted that the investigation of the case cannot be
interfered with by invoking jurisdiction of this Court under Article
226 of the Constitution of India. 7. Having considered the arguments placed by both the parties, on
perusal of the contention raised by the learned counsel for the
Petitioner in his application and upon appreciation thereof, it is
found that prima facie there are materials depicting commission of
the offence as alleged. There being ample materials to proceed with
the investigation, this Court is not inclined to exercise its
extraordinary jurisdiction to interfere with the merit of the F.I.R. 8. It is the settled principle of law that, invoking its extraordinary
power under Article 226 of the Constitution, the Court has no
jurisdiction to examine the correctness or otherwise of the
allegation. The Apex Court in the matter of State of Haryana and
Others vs. Bhajan Lal and Others , AIR 1992 SC 604, in paragraph-
109, delineated the guidelines as under :- In the backdrop of the aforesaid principle, this Court is not in
agreement with the contentions put forth by the learned counsel for
the Petitioner that, to quash and set aside the impugned F.I.R the
Court need to delve into the genuineness or correctness of the FIR
invoking the extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court. In case this
Court proceeds to appreciate the allegations of the Petitioner, it
would amount to conducting a judicial enquiry, which is not
permissible for this Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article
226 of the Constitution of India. 9. However, the learned counsel for the Petitioner harped on the
circumstances that the Cyber Crime & Economic Offence, UPD,
Bhubaneswar P.S., where the F.I.R. has been lodged, have no
territorial jurisdiction to investigate into the crime, as no part of the
cause of action arose thereunder, and as such the investigation
allegedly conducted by the said Police Station is without jurisdiction
and power, for which he sought for quashing of the F.I.R. as in the
given facts and circumstances of the case it cannot be interfered
with. 10. The powers of investigation into cognizable offences are
contained in Chapter XII of the Cr.P.C . Section 154 of the said
Chapter deals with the information in cognizable offences, whereas Section 156 deals with investigation into cognizable offence. // 5 // 11. Sub-section (2) of Section 156 , Cr.P.C. stipulates that no
proceeding of a police officer in any such case shall at any stage be
called in question on the ground that the case was one which such
officer was not empowered under this section to investigate.
However, the law postulates that, after completion of the
investigation, the result of such investigation is required to be
forwarded, as contemplated under Sections 168 , 169 & 170 , Cr.P.C.
At this stage, reliance is kept on the exposition in the matter of Satvinder Kaur vs. State (Government of NCT Delhi ) reported in
(1999) 8 SCC 728, wherein the Apex Court in paragraph-10 held
thus :- 12. In view of the settled principle of law, as mentioned above, this
 Court is unable to persuade itself to appreciate the contentions put
 forth by the learned counsel for the Petitioner to interfere in the
 investigation of the crime allegedly to have been lodged with the
 Cyber Crime & Economic Offence, UPD, Bhubaneswar. At this
 stage, when the investigation is in progress, the impugned F.I.R.
 cannot be quashed and set aside on the alleged ground that no part of
 offence is committed within the territorial jurisdiction where the
 police station situates and that the I.O. has no jurisdiction to
 investigate into it. It is made clear that the materials collected by the
 I.O., if any, in the meanwhile in connection with the aforesaid Cyber
 Crime & Economic Offence Bhubaneswar P.S. Case No.11 of 2022
 have been by judicial scrutiny for arriving at a conclusion that the
 police officer of the particular P.S. would not have territorial
 jurisdiction. The investigation, therefore, being within the exclusive
 domain of the I.O. concerned, this Court is not inclined to interfere
 with the same to quash the F.I.R. by invoking its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The prayer to quash the
 F.I.R. is accordingly rejected and the CRLMP stands dismissed. (Chittaranjan Dash) Signature Not Verified Judge Digitally Signed Signed by: SAMIR KUMAR PARIDA Designation: ADR-cum-ADDL. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY Reason: Authentic Copy Location: ORISSA HIGH COURT, CUTTACK
Date:S.K.
 12-Feb-2024 19:37:46
 Parida Page 6 of 6