By way of the present petition filed under Section 482 of the

Bhartiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (BNSS), the petitioner is praying

for anticipatory bail in the event of arrest in FIR (Annexure P-1) detailed as

under:- 2. Brief facts of the case are that on 07.05.2024 police on

patrolling duty present at Chhotu Ram Chowk, Karnal Road, Kaithal, an

informer gave information to the police party that gang of Rahul, Rajendra

alias Titu, Deepak, Pankaj, Ashok alias Shoki, and other persons by

misleading innocent people fraudulently obtained SIM's on their IDs and

opened bank account in the Bank and after linking the SIM with the bank

 1 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 21-09-2024 03:36:08 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:115402 CRM-M-37666-2024 2 account misused the same in other crimes. Finding the information reliable a

raid was conducted at Pehwa Chowk, Kaithal and a alto car bearing

HRO8K-3528 was seen parked and three young boys namely Ashok, Pankaj

and Deepak were apprehended and on search Mobile, SIM, ATM two pre-

opened Kits of Federal Bank Kaithal and cheque books were recovered from

them. The accused along with their associates, lured people with money and

fraudulently obtained SIM cards, bank accounts, ATM cards and cheque

books and committed crime. Hence the FIR. 3. It is, inter alia contended by learned counsel for the petitioner

that the petitioner is innocent and has been falsely implicated in this case. He

contends that petitioner was not named in the FIR but was nominated on the

basis of disclosure statement of co-accused Deepak. He contends that

petitioner has joined the investigation twice before the investigating officer

and had answered all of their queries as such custodial investigation would

not serve any purpose. Hence he prays for grant of bail to the petitioner. 4. Per contra, learned State counsel referring to the reply

submitted by the State has opposed the bail petition by arguing that

petitioner along with other co-accused opened bank accounts of innocent

people for cheating and alluring them of money and use their bank accounts

for illegal money transactions for illegal activities. He contends that

petitioner is the member of the said gang and had actively participated in the

crime, as such custodial interrogation of the petitioner is required to

ascertain whether the petitioner is indulged in some anti national activities

which will endanger the national security. 5. After considering the arguments and perusing the record, it

 2 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 21-09-2024 03:36:09 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:115402 CRM-M-37666-2024 3 transpires that the instant case was registered on the basis of secret

information, and consequently upon raid being conducted accused Pankaj,

Deepak and Ashok were apprehended. During course of investigation

accused Deepak nominated the petitioner in his disclosure statement,

wherein it was stated that the petitioner used to visit the surrounding villages

and to entangle the persons in their plan for getting their accounts opened in

the banks and also issuance of new SIM cards to be linked with those

accounts and then he used to deliver the kits received from the banks in the

name of those persons for being used in extorting money from innocent

citizens. It further came in investigation that ₹30,000/-were paid by the

petitioner for each of such account opened by the co-accused. Petitioner

happens to be an active member of the gang operating the cyber scams

whereby extorting hard earned money from the innocent citizens.

Considering the gravity of offence and also the nature of cyber scam in

which the petitioner is indulging, his custodial interrogation is required.

Therefore, no case is made out in favour of the petitioner for grant of

anticipatory bail in the present petition, the same is hereby dismissed. 6. Any observation made above shall not be construed as opinion

of this Court on the merits of the case.