[per Adv. Ms. Rachna Anna Maria Gonsalves, Member] 1. This Judgment and Order shall finally dispose off First
 Appeal filed by Appellant challenging the Judgment and
 Order dated 10/06/2024 passed by District Consumer
 Disputes Redressal Commission, South-Goa at Margao in
 CC/70/2023, wherein the Complaint was partly allowed. 2. The Appellant herein, was Opposite Party-1 & 2 before
 District Commission South and the Respondent was the
 Original Complainant. For sake of convenience, the
 parties shall be hereinafter referred to as per their
 original statuses before the District commission. 3. The brief facts are: Party Bank having savings account No. 03741930002079
 at Chicalim bank and the account is in operation for
 about at least 15 years, and was due for a
 reimbursement from MAKE MY TRIP against cancellation
 Invoice no. M06AI23Coo167763 dated 13/10/2022.
 Despite the passage of almost three weeks the said
 reimbursement was not being processed and hence on
 04/11/2022, at about 10.30 am. the Complainant found
 the number 9163431574 on one of the websites stating
 to be customer case number MAKEMYTRIP for guidance
 on retrieval of the reimbursement. ii. Thereafter the Complainant dialed the number which was
 answered by someone representing MAKEMYTRIP and
 heard the grievance of the Complainant and further 2 requested the Complainant to answer an incoming call
 from another number 9827426974, while the
 Complainant was still speaking to the said individual.
 The Complainant on the instructions of the said
 individual downloaded the "Anydesk" mobile application
 and then shared details of a code which led to the said
 account being fraudulently debited of amount of
 Rs.20,000/-(Rupees twenty thousand only) via two
 separate transactions of Rs.10,000/-(Rupees ten
 thousand only) each and then fraudulently initiated third
 debit for Rs.15,000/-(Rupees fifteen thousand only)
 which was unsuccessful as the Complainant had lost
 WIFI internet connectivity while rushing to the Opposite
 Party Branch which was 200 mtrs. away from the office
 of the Complainant to seek help in the matter as the said
 amount was credited to a PAYTM wallet via HDFC net
 Banking by virtue of two transactions by remote access
 fraud. iii. Thereafter on reaching the branch, the Complainant
 informed the staff member Manguesh and then received a
 call from HDFC Bangalore informing her that her account
 appears to be hacked and further to fill a Proforma/Form
 for such frauds which were available at the Bank. iv. That the Complainant thereafter made a quick
 handwritten letter to the Opposite Party Bank,
 instructing that the accounts be blocked and based on
 the letter, a Complaint was registered immediately on the
 Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Portal of the
 Opposite and another Complaint was registered in the
 CRM Portal by the Phone Banking Centre on the basis of
 a telephonic Complaint made by the Complainant. v. That the account Operation of Complainant's account
 was blocked immediately on 04/11/2022 based on the
 letter of the Complainant and the Customer was advised
 by Mr. Mangesh Sabnis to immediately lodge a police
 Complaint and provide a copy of the same to the branch
 as per the standard banking procedure, which the
 Complainant provided on the same day, along with a
 covering letter. vi. On 11/11/2022, the Complainant addressed a letter
 requesting to unblock her bank account which the
 Opposite Party-1 did so, immediately on the same day.
 Thereafter the back end technical team of the Opposite
 Party, duly investigated the Complaint made by the
 Complainant and after thorough investigation by the
 internal OMBUDSMAN, on 14/11/2022, the Complaint
 was finally closed with the remark "For the Bank this is a
 transaction duly authenticated by the way of 2FA
 OTP/Challenge Question IO's view also taken for denial
 and response sent to Customer accordingly" and
 thereafter the Technical Team duly communicated by an
 email provided by the Complainant in her KYC
 documentation, that there is no defect in the Net Banking
 or OTP verification procedure of the Opposite Party and
 advised the Complainant to follow up with the Police for
 purpose of investigation and detection of the alleged
 fraudulent transferees. vii. That the Complainant further inquired with the Branch
 operations Manager regarding RBI Insurance cover and
 was apprised that fraudulent net banking transactions
 are not covered under any RBI Insurance cover, due to
 disclosure of credentials by a customer. viii. Thereafter on 14/01/2023 the Complainant sent a Legal
 notice to the Opposite Party and to its Head Office in
 Mumbai seeking action in the matter and redressal of the
 grievances of the Complainant, to which Opposite-1 has
 neither replied to, nor conducted any investigation and
 the Legal Notice sent to Head office was returned
 unserved with the remark "Left". ix. The Complainant further reiterated that the Opposite
 Party has by it's acts and conduct of negligence and
 omission caused financial and mental loss and injury to
 the Complainant and has deliberately with held crucial
 and relevant information from the Complainant, with
 their complete casual approach, lack of communication
 and lack of knowledge in the matter. That the Opposite
 Party acted in a malafide manner and the Complainant is
 therefore entitled to the reliefs prayed for:  Direct the Opposite Party to pay a sum of
 Rs.100,000/-(Rupees one lakh only) to the
 Complainant toward mental agony and harassment;
  Direct the Opposite Party to pay to the Complainant
 costs towards the filing and prosecuting the present
 litigation. x. The District Commission, South by its Order dated
 10/06/2024 was pleased to partly allow the Complaint
 and allowed certain reliefs. B. The contention of the Opposite Parties: 4. Documents relied upon by the Complainant and Opposite
 Party before this Commission were the same as relied
 upon before District Commission.  The Opposite Party filed the Written Version.  Affidavit-in-Evidence were filed by both parties before
 District Commission.  Both the parties filed Written Arguments before this
 Commission. 5. Arguments were heard on behalf of Adv. Shri. Bhargav
 Khandeparkar for Appellant and Respondent in person. Adv. Shri. Bhargav Khandeparkar enumerated the brief
 facts before this Commission and highlighted that on
 04/11/2022 an amount of Rs.20,000/-(Rupees twenty
 thousand only) by way of two unauthorized transactions
 of Rs.10,000/-(Rupees ten thousand only) each was
 deducted from the Respondent's/Complainant's account
 and on the same day informed the Bank regarding the
 said fraudulent transactions. He further submitted that the Respondent's account was
 blocked immediately upon a written request to do so, and
 on the same day itself 04/11/2022 the customer was
 advised by Bank representative Mr. Sabnis to lodge a
 Police Complaint as per the standard banking procedure
 and provide a copy of the same to the Bank which was
 done on the very same day. On 11/11/2022 the
 Complainant requested the bank to unblock her Bank
 account which the bank immediately did. Adv. Shri. Khandeparkar, further submitted that the
 Complaint was duly investigated by the back-end
 technical team of the Opposite Party and on 14/11/2022
 the Complaint was finally closed after thorough
 investigation by the Internal OMBUDSMAN. He further reiterated that the Opposite Parties have
 taken prompt action and that there was no deficiency in
 service. The Advocate further drew the attention of this Bench to
the Impugned Judgment and Order dated 10/06/2024
passed by District Commission, South Margao-Goa and
specifically to paragraph 38 wherein the observations
made by District Commission are rather questionable in
terms of the Bank not finding it necessary to lodge a
police Complaint to investigate into the matter and the
Advocate reiterated to this Commission that the Bank
neither has Locus nor is there any veracity in the
allegations. He pointed out the Anydesk app was downloaded by the
customer and then further drew the attention of this
bench to paragraphs 37 & 38 of the Impugned Judgment,
where the observation of the District Commission reads
as 'the Complainant had downloaded the "Anydesk" App.
To facilitate her refund from MAKEMYTRIP, but this does
not mean that she shared her confidential banking
details or OTP with the 'fraudsters' and he added that the
Complainant herself admitted that she had downloaded
the Anydesk app, And in doing so the access was given to
the App. The Advocate touched upon the RBI circular bearing no.
DBR no. Leg. BC 78/09/07005/2017-18 dated
06/07/2017 and read the relevant portions with respect
to Limited liability of Customer i.e. Zero Liability of a
Customer Limited liability of a Customer. Reversal
Timeline for Zero Liability, Limited liability of Customer. The Advocate further submitted that what is required to
be proved is what is not admitted and the admitted
position is clearly visible at paragraph 38 of the
Judgment. Adv. Shri. Khandeparkar submitted that the District
Commission was in error in passing the Impugned 11 Judgment and Order and prayed that the Judgment and
 Order be quashed and set aside. The Respondent on the other hand submitted that the
 Bank has done nothing to show negligence on the part of
 the Complainant/Respondent and to that effect she
 pointed the stereo typical email dated 14/11/2022 from
 Opposite Party to Complainant. She also brought to the notice of this Commission that
 there was no application of mind all through the entire
 investigation. Also that the Bank has nothing to report except for
 freezing the account of the Complainant. She further
 posed the following questions to the Bank is to what are
 the combat mechanism for malwares; and what
 prevented the Bank from giving Benefit of RBI circular
 under Clause 9. 6. On hearing arguments canvassed by both parties and
 going through the pleadings we observed: v. In the pleadings and also the arguments the
 Complainant/Respondent emphasized on limited liability
 on Customers in unauthorized Electronic banking
 transactions but on carefully reading the file what comes
 to mind is who authorized permissions on the Anydesk
 App? It is the Complainant and without giving access, the
 unauthorized transactions could not have taken place. vi. The Bank indeed has a role and responsibility in
 safeguarding the interests of its Consumers but
 downloading apps wherein Consumers are not familiar
 with the terms of permissions granted or controls given
 to, cannot then be the responsibility of the bank and
 therefore the contention of the Complainant that the
 bank has failed in terms of limited liability of Customers
 in unauthorized Electronic banking transaction does not
 hold any water. vii. Also the bank cannot be held deficient in their services
 because they not only attended to the requests of the
 Complainant immediately in terms of blocking the
 account operations but also conducted an investigation
 by internal OMBUDSMAN. viii. What surprises us more, is that the District Commission,
 South in its Order has expressed that it was the Opposite
 Party to lodge a police Complaint and to track down the
 miscreants on the basis of their mobile phones. The
 Opposite Party does not have the locus standi to follow
 up with the police in terms of the Complaints lodged by
 Customers and can in fact only assist the investigating
 agencies in the process of investigation as per procedures
 laid down by the Law and the Opposite Party has
 provided all assistance within the scope and power. ix. Also another observation made, which we find hard to
 comprehend is that the Opposite Party could have traced
 the alleged miscreants based on KYC documentation.
 This only demonstrates a clear non-application of mind
 by the District Commission. x. We further observed that it is an admitted position that
 the transfer was made to a PAYTM wallet and not to any 14 accounts held by Opposite Party, and it was necessary to
 have impleaded MAKEMYTRIP, PAYTM and the
 transaction-beneficiary which the Complainant has failed
 to implead the necessary parties. xi. Another point which is worth taking note is that the
 District Commission, South failed to take into
 consideration the Affidavit-in-Evidence of Branch
 operations Manager Bonita Barreto in terms of the
 relevant paragraph 18, wherein, the entire transaction
 was carried out by the Complainant through the
 "Anydesk" mobile phone application, which authorized
 third party to take control and allows to operate the
 mobile phone of the user, thus enabling such third party
 to access the OTP as well as other private net banking
 information and that the Complainant had flouted all the
 safeguards provided for net banking and that the
 banking instructions is not liable for such acts of
 negligence on part of the customer, and we are taken a
 back at how the District Commission, South has failed to
 make a mention of the Affidavit-in-Evidence, which
 clearly is devoid of any application of mind. xii. The District Commission has in its order mentioned that
 fraud by parties has been established and has clearly
 failed to appreciate that it is not yet established that the
 fraud is indeed fraudulent. xiii. Also we cannot understand how the District Commission,
 South arrived at reliefs granted in terms of compensation
 which will only up the floodgates of Consumer
 Complaints if such compensation is awarded without
 having determined whether the transactions are
 fraudulent or not. xiv. The Judgments relied upon by the Complainant cannot
 be considered because the Complainant herself gave
 access for the unauthorized transactions through the
 App. We live in an age where elaborate cyber frauds are taking
shape and alert bank staff is the need of the hour to protect
Customers. Cyber frauds have become the biggest challenge for both the
public as well as the Law enforcement authorities and Banks
have to play a very critical role. In every cyber fraud the money actually passes through a
bank account and therefore the bank is a very important stage
at which a cyber fraud can be stopped and it can happen
either with Human intervention or by using technology and in
this particular case before us, the Customer authorized the
access to the app and in doing so exposed all her credentials
which paved way for the unauthorized transactions and
although the Bank did their part through SMS etc., the money
had already been deducted into the PAYTM wallet. It is imperative that Digital and Cyber Infrastructure have to
be strategically organized in order to detect these cyber frauds
and crimes so that Customer protection is authorized and
operational continuity is maintained. Hence in light of the above discussion we find that the
Appellant is neither deficient nor negligent in their services. Therefore in the result we pass the following: [Adv. Mrs. Varsha R. Bale]
 Officiating President

 [Adv. Ms. Rachna Anna Maria Gonsalves]
 Member

VS 17