Name Not Mentioned In The Cause Title Of The Annexure A-1), District : VEDPRAKASH DEWANGAN
DEWANGAN Date: 2. The case of prosecution is that, on 13.01.2025, the police has

 received a secret information that the co-accused Sudhir Gupta is

 engaged in playing online gambling in cricket match by fixing a TV

 setup in his office room. On being raid conducted, in the house of the

 co-accused Sudhir Gupta, 03 persons were found, who were

 engaged in playing online gambling having number of ATM cards,

 passbooks, cheque books, QR stands, mobile phones, register, cash,

 etc. They disclosed their name Rahul Agrawal @ Vickey, Srikant

 Agrawal and Rahul Kumar Soni. On being interrogation, they disclosed that they are engaged in

 playing online gambling along with Sudhir Gupta and the co-accused

 Rahul Agrawal @ Vickey disclosed from his mobile phone that, he is

 running the group W52 Daily Hisab, W52 Upar TRF and W52

 Withdraw in WhatsApp No. 8519099399. The mobile number of

 group admin is 9993717857 and the mobile number of group

 members are 8349963500, 9201707887, 9111293475, 9399522297

 and 8770601386 and also disclose that they are playing online

 gambling with the said mobile numbers. Total 234 ATM cards, 77 SIM

 cards, 78 cheque books, 73 mobile phones including SIM, 81

 passbooks, 08 UPI bar-code scanners, 13 Aadhar cards of various

 persons, Xerox copies of 04 PAN cards, Xerox copies of 04 Aadhar

 cards, 07 counterfoils of deposit slips, Laser of online gambling 22

 items, TV setup including Wi-Fi setup, furniture and cash of Rs.

 1,54,100/- have been seized from the aforesaid 03 accused persons. The co-accused Sudhir Gupta was also arrested and on his

 memorandum statement, he disclosed the involvement of other 3 accused persons in playing online gambling. It was also came during

 the investigation that the said WhatsApp group was prepared by Som

 Gupta, who was the admin and engaged in playing online gambling

 with other accused persons and when the Som Gupta was

 interrogated, he disclosed that on the instance of co-accused Sudhir

 Gupta, he engaged Sourabh Yadav, Sahil Gupta (present applicant)

 and Aman Kararia in the online gambling and then the present

 applicant was also interrogated along with others and then he

 disclosed that they had taken a room on rent at Godhanpur, from

 where they operating the online gambling through laptops, tabs and

 30 mobile phones. They also disclosed that co-accused Sudhir

 Gupta is paying them the monthly salary of Rs. 40,000/- from forged

 bank account through PhonePe no. 9131562599. From the litigation,

 closed connection of all the accused persons were found who directly

 connected with each other and made transactions. A huge scam of

 online gambling was detected through their electronic gadgets. The

 applicant was arrested on 03.02.2025 and charge sheet was filed

 against the applicant and 09 other co-accused persons. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant would submit that there is no direct

 evidence against the applicant in the case regarding his involvement,

 either in conspiracy with other accused persons or engaged in

 playing online gambling. There is no incriminating material recovered

 from the mobile phone of the present applicant. Except for the

 memorandum statement, nothing substantive evidence is available in

 the charge sheet against the applicant. There is no evidence that he

 directly connected with co-accused Sudhir Gupta. The present 4 applicant is an employee of Som Gupta and working for him. He is

 having no connection with any illegal activity or offence of online

 gambling either for himself or for Som Gupta or Sudhir Gupta. He is

 nephew of Som Gupta and the salaried employee of him. The

 material witnesses of memorandum and seizure have been

 examined before the learned trial Court and they have not supported

 the prosecution's case. There is no sufficient material with respect to

 involvement of the present applicant in the offence in question. He is

 in jail since 03.02.2025, final adjudication of the case will take its own

 time. He would also submit that none of the persons have

 complained about cheating by the applicant. The applicant is a young

 boy of 21 years and therefore he may be released on bail. 4. On the other hand, learned counsel appearing for the State opposes

 the submissions made by learned counsel for the applicant and

 submitted that from the investigation the name of the present

 applicant appears and there is sufficient evidence in the charge sheet

 of his involvement in the offence in question. The accused persons

 have organized the crime of online gambling through mobile phone

 by preparing the WhatsApp group and operating the online gambling.

 Huge number of SIM cards, mobile phones, ATM cards, passbooks,

 cheque books, bar code scanners, etc. have been seized. He would

 further submit that from the documents annexed with the bail

 application, it reflects that the witnesses are being examining in the

 case and the trial of the case is in advance stage. Therefore,

 considering the nature of offence and the manner in which they 5 organized the crime of online gambling, the present applicant is not

 entitled for bail. 5. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties and perused the

 case diary. 6. Considering the submissions made by the parties, considering the

 material collected during the investigation and the allegation against

 the present applicant regarding his involvement in online gambling

 along with other accused persons, memorandum statements of other

 accused persons and seizure of various mobile phones, ATM cards,

 passbooks, cheque books, bar code scanners, etc. there is sufficient

 prima facie evidence in the case, which shows the involvement of the

 present applicant in the offence in question. Further, considering that

 the witnesses are being examined in the case and the trial is in

 advance stage, the gravity of the offence, the manner in which the

 offence is organized and impact of the alleged offence, I am not

 inclined to release the applicant on bail. 7. Accordingly, the bail application of present applicant Sahil Gupta is

 rejected. Sd/- (Ravindra Kumar Agrawal)
 Judge
ved