Heard Shri Ansar Ahmad, learned counsel for the applicant, Shri Virendra Kumar, learned AGA for the State-respondents and perused the record. This bail application under Section 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 has been moved on behalf of accused-applicant, Yesh Arya, seeking enlargement on bail in Case Crime No. 143 of 2025, under Sections 316 (2), 318 (4), 3 (5), 238 of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 and Section 66 , 66 (D) of IT Act, Police Station Kotwali, District Etawah during the pendency of the trial before the Court below. The bail application before the Court below was rejected by the learned Addl. District Judge/Regular Etawah, District Etawah and the applicant is languishing in jail since 20.7.2025. Learned counsel for the applicant argued that the accused-applicant is innocent and has been falsely implicated in this very case crime number for ulterior purposes. It has been argued that the FIR giving rise to the instant case crime number has been lodged nominating five named accused persons including the applicant on the strength of alleged recovery wherein recovery of mobile phones of different companies, cheque books, pass books, ATM cards, GST Registration Papers, other documents of different banks and one four wheeler and one motorcycle was seized. From the possession of the applicant, two ATM cards of Kotak Bank and SBI Global, two mobile phones, GST Registration certificate in the name of Avlok Sharma trade name Krishna Enterprises, Aadhar card in the name of Avlok Sharma and Rs. 1500/- in cash has been recovered. It is also argued that the co-accused Himanshu Chaudhary and Yash Pratap Singh in their confessional statements have assigned the role of making available the bank accounts and link details for committing cyber crime. It is also argued that ATM cards recovered belongs to the applicant and the GST Registration certificate has been planted by the Police. The seized Tata Punch car bearing registration No. UP-93-BU-6453 belongs to the uncle of the applicant and was being used to visit Etawah when the same was seized. The applicant is a student and has nothing to do with the alleged cyber crime. The allegations are against co-accused Himanshu Chaudhary in whose bank account the money collected through cyber fraud has been received. It has been argued that the applicant has no criminal antecedents and undertakes to cooperate in the trial and shall not misuse the liberty of bail, if granted. Hence, bail has been prayed for. . Learned AGA has vehemently opposed the prayer for bail application by submitting that complicity of the applicant in the commission of the crime stands established from the fact that message/screen shots of the cheques in respect of the cyber frauds were found on the mobile phones of the applicant and WhatsApp group Roy Dolloar. It is a settled law that while granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the nature of accusation, the nature of the evidence in support thereof, the severity of the punishment which conviction will entail, the character of the accused, the circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, his role and involvement in the offence, his involvement in other cases and reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with. This Court finds that in India, the rapid advancement of technology and the widespread adoption of digital infrastructure have led to a significant rise in cyber-crimes including phishing scams, ransomware attacks, cyber-stalking and data breaches. Initiatives like Digital India have accelerated the country's' digital transformation, but they have also exposed vulnerabilities that cyber-criminals exploit. Cyber-crime has been affecting the people across the nation, irrespective of religion, region, education or class. Newspapers, Magazines, You Tube Channels and Social Media are brimming with ordeals of an uncountable number of innocent victim of the cyber-crime, who are defrauded of their hard earned money. Such cyber-crimes are rampant in our society, and must be curbed. Cyber-crime in our country is like a silent virus stealthy, disruptive, and costing society more than just money, but trust, security and progress. In view of the above, the Court is not inclined to release the applicant on bail. The bail application is, accordingly, rejected. (Ashutosh Srivastava,J.) 
 
October 14, 2025 
 
Ravi Prakash