Dear Sir/Madam, I was maintaining my salary account with HDFC bank since 2013 & I had applied for HDFC property loan with File No. (#[protected]. The sales executive, name Ganeshram, Chennai Velachery Branch approached me & he visited our home & collected only set of documents like Form 16, Pay Slips. E.tc. on April 1st, 2018 & a cheque valued 5695 INR. Also, he asks me to make some signatures on the loan application in a rush just by turning the loan application papers. But that day, surprisingly he didn’t ask for any single legal document pertaining to the builder & he had logged in my loan application into their system on 5th of April as PROPERTY NOT IDENTIFIED. He promised in case of rejection of loan we will only charge an amount of 3200 & we will refund the rest of the amount. On 9th of April, they have withdrawn an amount of 5695 from my account. When I called him he said he was following up with the builder for APF document & he said he will get that in three working days. He was completely aware that it’s a tedious process to get APF document for that property. Because already 95% of the plots got sold already. But he gave us a false commitment. It’s being two weeks now till date he didn’t gather or requested me any single legal document of the land promoter. I was completely dissatisfied with his service he gave me a lot of mental torture. He couldn’t pick up my calls or didn’t return my calls. No proper update has been given to me all these days. Finally, I got vexed & I wrote an email on April 12th to hold-on my loan process with their bank even I have marked customer service & his manager. But I didn’t receive any reply to my email. Today (19/4) His Manager MD Naveen Kumar called me & said we are going to charge 4000 INR for our service all these days & we will refund the rest of amount. I was wondering & it didn’t make any sense to me & I requested him to refund my entire amount. But he said he will get back to me. But no response yet. I kindly request HDFC team to look into this matter seriously & do the needful in refunding my entire hard-earned money. I also, request you to don’t lose your credibility you have in the market from the customers & this is not the right way to deal with any customer. Because they will not approach you in future for any kind of financial assistance. Please feel free to reach me for any clarifications. Kind Regards, Bharath M.