1. The Applicant filed an RTI application dated 11.6.08 with the CPIO and Joint
 Secretary (Wel & Inf) MEA, requesting for the following information: The CPIO, Legal Cell vide his letter dated 08.07.2008 informed the Appellant that
 requests for extradition (Execution of arrest warrant) under various Extradition
 Treaties is administered by the Ministry of External Affairs while Red Corner
 Notices are dealt by the AD (Interpol), CBI and therefore the requisite information
 may be available with these agencies. He also requested these agencies to furnish
 the information, while marking to each of them. Meanwhile, Mr. R. N. Kajla,
 US(CPV-RTI) & CPIO, MEA responded to the transferred request from the Legal
 Cell of MHA on 21.7.08 denying the information sought against points 1 to 5
 under provisions of Section 8 (1) (a) of the RTI ACT, 2005 which states as under:- Such an idea would be far-fetched. b) providing information about alleged criminals would not
 harm the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the
 country. On the contrary, interests of the State would be served
 better if such information comes in the public domain. c) it would not affect relations with Germany or any other
 nation 2. The CPIO has not explained on what grounds the information can
 be exempt from disclosure. 3. On 17.6.08, the MEA transferred the application to MHA on the
 ground that the matter is closely connected with them. Now,
 however, the same MEA is denying information implying that
 information subsists with it. There is, clearly, a contradiction in
 the two actions which the PIO has not explained as required under Section 4(1) (d) . 4. It is curious to note that the CPIO has begun his transfer letter by
 stating that he has been 'directed to transfer an RTI Application'.
 The CPIO ought to clarify who has directed him to do so and what
 authority that person has to direct the CPIO in the matter of
 original transfer of an RTI application. 4. The Appellate Authority in his Order dated 29.9.08 upheld the decision of the
 CPIO. Being aggrieved at the continuous denial of his request, the Applicant
 preferred a Second Appeal dated 18.11.08 before the CIC reiterating his
 contentions as made in the original RTI application and reiterating the same
 ground for his second appeal as for his first appeal. 5. The Bench of Mrs. Annapurna Dixit, Information Commissioner, scheduled the
 hearing for June 15, 2009. 6. Mr. D. K. Ghosh, Deputy Passport Officer - Extradition (US) and Mr. P. Roy
 Chaudhuri, Advocate represented the Public Authority. 7. The Applicant was present in person along with Mr. Abhishek Shukla for the
 hearing. First hearing on 15 June, 2009 8. During the hearing, the Appellant repeated his arguments which he had put forth
 in his Appeal. The Respondents maintained that the information cannot be
 provided under Section 8(1) (a) of the RTI Act. The Appellant contended that the
 information regarding the two Directors is already in the public domain with
 several newspapers and magazines having covered the story, (This information
 was verified by a search of various websites by the Commission) and the issue
 had already been tabled in the Parliament. He also pointed out that denial of
 information suggests corruption and the collusion of various officials in hushing up
 the case. The Commission after hearing both parties, directed the Appellant to
 give a further submission in support of his averments substantiating the fact that
 he sought the information in larger pubic interest and the Respondent was
 directed to file a rejoinder to the Appellant's submissions explaining further how
 the disclosure of the information would prejudicially affect relations with a foreign
 State. Both parties were advised to submit their respective submissions by 23
 June, 2009. 9. The Appellant in his submissions dated 19.06.09 averred that: The Appellant prayed that his appeal be allowed and all reliefs requested in the
 appeal be granted. He also requested for a copy of the submissions made by the
 First Appellate Authority and/or PIO in this regard. 10. The Respondent Public Authority viz. the MEA submitted its written statements
 alongwith a covering letter dated 26.06.2009 from the office of the Dy. Passport
 Officer (Extradition). Perusal of the written statements of the Respondent
 indicates the contents of the para 5 of the submissions, which is an excerpt
 directly out of the information already available on the website of the CBI in
 relation to Extradition, is contradictory to the action adopted by the MEA. In the
 paragraph 5 it is clearly submitted by the Respondent ".....In view of the solidarity
 of nations in repression of criminality, however, a State, though refusing to
 impose direct penal sanctions to offences committed abroad, is usually
 willing to cooperate otherwise in bringing the perpetrator to justice lest
 he goes unpunished..." In the light of such admitted position of law, the action
 of the Respondent/s in denying information as sought by the Appellant herein
 about the issuance of the Red Corner Notice and the International Arrest
 Warrants, service thereof, cause of issuance and about the action taken
 thereupon is self contradictory. Despite a careful consideration of the submissions,
 the Commission fails to understand why the information against the points (1) &
 (2) - whether Red Corner notices were issued to the two Directors in the subject
 matter or not and whether the notice was served upon them (individually or both) - have been denied under Section 8(1)(a) by the Public Authority. In order to get
 a better insight into the matter, the Commission conducted a suo motu research
 of the information available in this regard in public domain. The information
 available on the internet revealed that while answering questions regarding the
 two Directors and charges of their criminal acts already tabled in the Rajya Sabha
 the Minister of State in the Ministry of External Affairs (Shri E. Ahmed), responded
 admitting the issuance of such Red Corner Notice and International Arrest
 Warrants giving the numbers of the Red Corner notices as 453/1990 and
 459/1998, thereby confirming that the news about the Red Corner notice is
 already in the public domain due to its coverage by the Press.
 The submissions of the MEA is rather sketchy, vague, presumptuous containing
 uncalled for comments in the para 6 of the written statement in as much as the
 MEA has incorrectly assumed the role and responsibility of laying down the
 jurisdiction and authority of the Commission as to whether the Commission can
 adjudicate on matters concerning foreign relations. In this context it is made clear
 that according to the Commission neither the information sought herein can by
 any stretch of imagination adversely affect our national sovereignty and/or foreign
 relations nor is the Commission adjudicating on any issue outside its jurisdiction
 as maintained by the Respondent in their submissions. In fact it is pertinent to
 mention here that any issue unless expressly exempt as per Section 8 , 24 &
 covered under the Second Schedule to the RTI Act 2005, falls well within the
 jurisdiction of the Central Information Commission. The Public Authority in the
 para 7 of its submissions has wrongly averred that ".......the Appellant has sought
 information/documents sent by the Government...." whereas records of the case
 clearly indicate that the Appellant has sought ONLY INFORMATION about the
 issuance, service and action taken etc upon the RCN and Interpol Warrants and no
 documents whatsoever. Such incorrect averment by a Public Authority is
 misleading and unexpected from such a responsible office. In its averments as
 made out in the para 9 the MEA appears to have assumed the role of advocating
 the cause of protecting accused persons from the so-called unwarranted invasion
 of their privacy while seeking exemption, for the first time, under Section 8(1) (j) of the RTI Act 2005. In the event that such argument was to be put forth at all,
 the Public Authority in all its wisdom should have either raised it in the very
 beginning and/or sought the consent of the Third Party before raising such
 contention at this stage. The arguments put forth by the Public Authority are
 accordingly found to be inadequate in reasoning and grossly lacking merit. 11. Furthermore with regard to information against points 2 to 4 of the RTI request,
 the Commission again places its reliance on information already existing in the
 public domain wherein, as researches revealed that in a reply given by a Minister
 in the Rajya Sabha: It is observed from the above that the Hon'ble Minister of External Affairs has
 admitted that the Federal Republic of Germany is keen on the prosecution of the
 two Directors and that they have requested India for legal assistance in serving
 documents/extradition of the two individuals. Since as per Article 6 of the
 Extradition Treaty between the Republic of India and the Federal Republic of
 Germany neither of the Contracting States shall be bound to extradite its own
 nationals and the criminal prosecution may be affected in India itself, the
 Commission construes that any steps taken in the direction of prosecution of the
 two individuals by India in accordance with Indian Law, would be welcomed by
 Germany and the Commission accordingly finds no merit in the Ministry's
 argument that disclosure of information regarding details of the two warrants
 would adversely affect the relations between the two countries. In any case a
 number of details of the warrants, based on parts of the English translation of
 the texts of these warrants are already in the public domain (available on the
 internet) and indicate the alleged involvement of the two individuals in a number
 of fraud cases in Germany relating to misappropriation of millions of Dollars. The
 information available in public domain and on various websites indicate that the
 Delhi High Court has passed restraint orders against the accused persons from
 disposing of or otherwise encumbering their specific properties and bank accounts
 of the accused persons have been attached in cases filed by various international
 companies on charges of fraud against the two Directors of Amity International. In
 view of the fact that the aforementioned information already exists in public
 domain including statements of the Hon'ble Minister of MEA, it is quite surprising
 as to why the Public Authority is shying away from clearing the numerous
 questions and doubts arising in this internationally controversial issue. 12. The subject matter sought in the RTI request being related to a case of alleged
 fraud by two Indians mentioned hereinabove, and involving millions of Dollars, the
 possibility of corruption taking place at various levels in an effort to save the two
 individuals from being prosecuted as per the laws of this country, as alleged by
 the Appellant, certainly cannot be ruled out. In this connection the Commission
 believes that it would be appropriate to quote here from the A.D. Gorwala Report - one of the earliest official documents that laid bare the problem of corruption in
 India: 13. The objective of the RTI Act is to promote transparency and accountability in the
 functioning of the Public Authorities and remove chances of corruption at any
 level/s of the Government and if transparency has to be achieved then
 information regarding decisions taken, based on rules and regulations, should be
 freely available and accessible to those who will be affected by those decisions
 and in this case the public and thousands of students of Amity International have
 a right to the information about the two Directors of Amity International. More
 importantly, in view of the Extradition Treaty signed between India and Germany
 in 2004, and in view of information available in public domains such as various
 websites, indicating the chequered history of the accused persons, it will only
 enhance the image and integrity of India and help in improving India's
 international relations by taking adequate steps in rendering justice. In the instant
 case, the principle of doing justice is as important as ensuring and aiding the
 process of justice. It is therefore the view of the Commission that the provisions of the Section 8 (1) (a) of the RTI Act 2005 are not attracted in this case since disclosure of
 information as sought by the Appellant in this case, is not likely to in anyway
 prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, nor can the disclosure of
 such information lead to any breach of security, strategic, scientific or economic
 interests of the State, in relation with a foreign State. In fact disclosure of such
 information will only be beneficial in boosting the integrity of Indian judicial
 system in the international scenario as also lead to transparency about such
 matters of international consequence. Hence it is in the larger public interest that
 such information should be made available to the public to promote the faith of
 people of not only India but also of the world on the Indian judicial system. 14. In the light of its above observations, the Commission allows the appeal and
 directs the CPIO to provide complete information to the Appellant by 15
 September, 2009 under intimation to the Commission. 15. The appeal is accordingly disposed of. Annapurna Dixit
 (Information Commissioner)

(G. Subramanian)
Asst. Registrar
 Cc: