Hi, I am nitesh jain from indore mp. I have seen work from home advertisement on quicker.com for data entry jobwork. 1.	 I was provided a sample entry with dummy user name/password & terms/ condition of work by jhanvi patel from infinity solutions. 2.	I have submitted my pan and aadhaar on their request on 30th may 2017 3.	I was told by jhanvi patel that i will receive an email in which there would be a link, i will receive an otp when i will click on link this will produce “softcopy of terms & conditions & agreement” 4.	I had clicked that link & put the otp but i got acknowledgement only stating "agreement acceptance acknowledgement" while i clicked on “download legal agreement” it given an error message but no any agreement appeared. I was shocked because no any agreement was provided & i haven’t read any terms & condition in link then how i have digitally signed the agreement. 5.	I taken an screenshot & replied back. 6.	I have requested too many times for softcopy of agreement via whatsapp, phone calls and email also but i never received any positive feedback. I called jhanvi patel also she replied “we are sending pdf of agreement” but no any email received. 7.	I have received user name & password. I thought there must be softcopy of agreement so i log in but disappointed. I started work in hope that i will receive softcopy of terms & condition/agreement but no response. I had a doubt that there must be some hidden conditions which are not shared earlier so i stopped the work. 8.	On 9th june 2017 i received speed post of agreement on 20 rs. Stamp. I was surprised to see numerous terms & conditions which were not discussed earlier. The main condition is payment of rs. 5100 if candidate fails to submit 1500 entries in time frame or in quality check report. 9.	To clear all the points i called jhanvi patel & she replied that if i don’t submit 1500 entries before due date or my 1400 entries are not correct then i will be failed.in this condition i will have to pay rs. 5100 10.	When i asked what happens if my 1399 entries are correct. She replied me that i will be treated as failed & i will have to pay rs. 5100. I told her to deduct rs. 5100 from compensation of my correct entries i. E. 1399 x 25/- = 34975/- she replied i will not get paid any penny if correct entries are below 1400. 11.	This condition seems unacceptable because an unemployed person works hard for 5 hours per day for 20 days to complete the task. A mistake in any field will destroy the whole entry. The data is mixture o[censored]pper & lower cases. The font is also creates confusion between l (Small l) and i (Caps i) so there are several chances of incorrect entries. 12.	Jhanvi patel suggested me to call on customer care number & i called twice but customer care executive was unable to reply. He asked my user id & told for call back but till now i have not received any call. Jhanvi also told me that she had mailed me terms & conditions but i got plan only. 13.	The agreement also stated that there will not be any changes in terms & condition. It means i will have to accept the points forcefully. I called them on 9th june 2017 & waited for call back but disappointed again. Therefore i have sent them an email & let them all the facts. Today they sent me two email stating that i will have to pay rs.5100 else they will take legal action This is my humble to honorable forum, these scam companies are making fool to innocent persons in the name of money making. Their main aim to earn rs. 5100/- from each person who get attracts. By their advertisement. I am also highlighting this issue with indian government. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)