(Cause title taken from Case Information System)

 For Applicant(s) : Mr. Lukesh Kumar Mishra, Advocate
 (through virtual mode) and Mr. Vinay
 Nagdev, Advocate

 For Respondent(s)/State : Mr. Suyashdhar Badgaiya, Deputy G.A.

 Hon'ble Shri Justice Ravindra Kumar Agrawal

 Order on Board
 24/07/2025 1. This is the first bail application under Section 483 of the Bhartiya

 Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 filed by the applicant, who is

 arrested on 13.01.2025, in connection with Crime No. 38 of 2025,

 Digitally
 signed by
 registered at Police Station Kotwali, Ambikapur, District Surguja
 VEDPRAKASH
VEDPRAKASH DEWANGAN
DEWANGAN Date: 2. The case of prosecution is that, on 13.01.2025, the police has

 received a secret information that the co-accused Sudhir Gupta is

 engaged in playing online gambling in cricket match by fixing a TV

 setup in his office room. On being raid conducted, in the house of co-

 accused Sudhir Gupta, 03 persons were found, who were engaged in

 playing online gambling having number of ATM cards, passbooks,

 cheque books, QR stands, mobile phones, register, cash, etc. They

 disclosed their name Rahul Agrawal @ Vikki, Shrikant Agrawal

 (present applicant) and Rahul Kumar Soni. On being interrogation,

 they disclosed that they are engaged in playing online gambling

 along with co-accused Sudhir Gupta and Rahul Agrawal @ Vikki

 disclosed that from his mobile phone, he is running the group W52

 Daily Hisab, W52 Upar TRF and W52 Withdraw in WhatsApp No.

 8519099399. The mobile number of group admin is 9993717857 and

 the mobile number of group members are 8349963500, 9201707887,

 9111293475, 9399522297 and 8770601386 and also disclose that

 they are playing online gambling with the said mobile numbers. Total

 234 ATM cards, 77 SIM cards, 78 cheque books, 73 mobile phones

 including SIM, 81 passbooks, 08 UPI bar-code scanners, 13 Aadhar

 cards of various persons, Xerox copies of 04 PAN cards, Xerox

 copies of 04 Aadhar cards, 07 counterfoils of deposit slips, Laser of

 online gambling 22 items, TV setup including Wi-Fi setup, furniture

 and cash of Rs. 1,54,100/- have been seized from the aforesaid 03 3 accused persons. The co-accused Sudhir Gupta was also arrested

 and on his memorandum statement, he disclosed the involvement of

 other 03 accused persons in playing online gambling. It was also

 came during the investigation that the said WhatsApp group was

 prepared by Som Gupta, who was the admin and engaged in playing

 online gambling with other accused persons and when the Som

 Gupta was interrogated, he disclosed that on the instance of co-

 accused Sudhir Gupta, he engaged Saurabh Yadav, Sahil Gupta and

 Aman Kararia in the online gambling and also disclosed that they had

 taken a room on rent at Godhanpur, from where they operating the

 online gambling through laptops, tabs and 30 mobile phones. They

 also disclosed that the co-accused Sudhir Gupta is paying them the

 monthly salary from forged bank account through PhonePe no.

 9131562599. From the interrogation, closed connection of all the

 accused persons were found who directly connected with each other

 and made transactions. A huge scam of online gambling was

 detected through their electronic gadgets. The applicant was arrested

 on 13.01.2025 and charge sheet was filed against the applicant and

 09 other co-accused persons. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant would submit that there is no direct

 evidence against the applicant in the case regarding his involvement,

 either in conspiracy with other accused persons or engaged in

 playing online gambling. There is no incriminating material recovered

 from the mobile phone of the present applicant and a joint seizure

 memo has been prepared by the police in which, there is no 4 signature of the present applicant. Except for the memorandum

 statement, nothing substantive evidence is available in the charge

 sheet against the applicant. There is no evidence that he directly

 connected with other co-accused persons. He is having no

 connection with any illegal activity or offence of online gambling

 either for himself or for Som Gupta. The material witnesses of

 memorandum and seizure have been examined before the learned

 trial Court and they have not supported the prosecution's case. There

 is no sufficient material with respect to involvement of the present

 applicant in the offence in question. He is in jail since 13.01.2025. He

 would also submit that none of the persons have complained about

 cheating by the applicant, final adjudication of the case will take its

 own time and therefore he may be released on bail. 4. On the other hand, learned counsel appearing for the State opposes

 the submissions made by learned counsel for the applicant and

 submitted that from the office room of the co-accused Sudhir Gupta,

 the present applicant and other co-accused persons have been

 arrested and from them huge number of incriminating materials have

 been seized. The applicant caught on the spot and in the

 investigation, the name of the present applicant appears and there is

 sufficient evidence in the charge sheet of his involvement in the

 offence in question. The accused persons have organized the crime

 of online gambling through mobile phone by preparing the WhatsApp

 group and operating the online gambling. Huge number of SIM cards,

 mobile phones, ATM cards, passbooks, cheque books, bar code 5 scanners, etc. have been seized. He would further submit that from

 the documents annexed with the bail application, it reflects that the

 witnesses are being examining in the case and the trial of the case is

 in advance stage. The bail application of other accused persons

 namely Sahil Gupta, Arjun Gupta and Sourabh Yadav have been

 rejected by this Court in MCRC No. 4313 of 2025, 4430 of 2025 and

 4774 of 2025, respectively. Therefore, considering the nature of

 offence and the manner in which they organized the crime of online

 gambling, the present applicant is not entitled for bail. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the case

 diary. 6. Considering the submissions made by the parties, considering the

 material collected during the investigation and the allegation against

 the present applicant regarding his involvement in online gambling

 along with other accused persons, memorandum statements of other

 accused persons and seizure of various mobile phones, ATM cards,

 passbooks, cheque books, bar code scanners, etc. there is sufficient

 prima facie evidence in the case, which shows the involvement of the

 present applicant in the offence in question. Further, considering that

 the witnesses are being examining in the case and the trial is in

 advance stage, the gravity of the offence, the manner in which the

 offence is organized and impact of the alleged offence, further, the

 bail application of co-accused persons Sahil Gupta, Arjun Gupta and

 Sourabh Yadav have already been rejected by this Court and the 6 allegation of the present applicant is also similar to them, I am not

 inclined to release the applicant on bail. 7. Accordingly, the bail application of present applicant Shrikant

 Agrawal is rejected. Sd/- (Ravindra Kumar Agrawal)
 Judge

ved