BRIEF STATEMENT OF REASONS FOR THE DECISION

FACTUAL MATRIX 1. The present complaint has been filed by the complainant against the accused
 under section 138 Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (hereinafter " NI Act "). 2. Briefly stated, the case of the complainant is that the complainant is a private
 limited company and has duly authorised Mr. Rajan Sareen by the board
 KATYAYINI Digitally
 KATYAYINI
 signed by

 SHARMA SHARMA KANDWAL
 Date: 2024.05.03
 KANDWAL 15:10:33 +0530 CC No. 513335/16 Crescore Wealth Management Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Amrita Kumari Page 1 of 19 resolution dated 18.08.2014 to file and pursue the present case. The accused was
 offered employment by the complainant for the position of Manager-Sales
 effective from 18.04.2014 who accepted the offer and thereafter, executed a bond
 dated 19.04.2014 in favour of the complainant (hereinafter "the Bond") as well as
 employment agreement dated 21.04.2014 (hereinafter "the Agreement"). That as
 per the terms of the Bond, accused agreed that her minimum service period would
 be twelve months from the date of joining the complainant complainant. It was
 further agreed that if the accused wished to leave the complainant during the
 period of bond and in the event of her committing any breach of the terms of the
 Bond, accused shall be liable to pay a sum of Rs.55,000/- to the complainant. The
 accused joined the complainant on 18.04.2014 but resigned from the services on
 24.06.2014 by sending an e-mail giving notice with effect from same date
 terminating her services with the complainant and as the accused resigned before
 the expiry of the agreed period of twelve months, she became liable to pay the
 sum of Rs. 55,000/- to the complainant. The accused issued one cheque bearing
 number 265723 dated 25.06.2014 for a sum of Rs. 55,000/- drawn on Axis Bank
 Ltd. in favour of the complainant (hereinafter "cheque in question") to liquidate
 her liability towards the complainant. 3. The cheque in question was presented for encashment by the complainant and the
 same was returned unpaid with the remarks "funds insufficient" vide returning
 memo dated 24.07.2014. The fact of dishonour of the cheque in question was
 brought to the notice of the accused but she failed to make the payment of the said
 cheque in question to the complainant. The complainant, thereafter, sent a legal
 notice dated 19.08.2014 to the accused through its lawyer demanding the payment
 as per the dishonoured cheque but the accused failed to pay the cheque amount
 within the prescribed period. Hence the present complaint under section 138 of NI
 Act. 4. In order to support his case, the authorized representative of complainant Mr.
 Rajan Sareen was examined as CW-1 and tendered his affidavit as Ex. CW 1/A
 into evidence wherein averments made in the complaint were reiterated. The
 complainant also placed reliance on the following documents: 55,000/- drawn on Axis Bank Ltd. 5. Upon service of summons, the accused entered an appearance and notice of
 accusation under Section 251 , Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter
 referred to as " CrPC ") was served upon the accused on 19.03.2016 to which she
 pleaded not guilty and claimed trial and her plea of defence was recorded. The
 plea of defence taken by the accused was as follows: 6. Application filed under section 145(2) NI Act on behalf of accused seeking
 permission to cross-examine the complainant was allowed vide order dated
 19.03.2016. Thereafter, CW-1 was examined, cross-examined and discharged and
 complainant evidence was closed on 02.07.2019. 7. Statement of accused under section 313 CrPC was recorded on 19.10.2019
 wherein the incriminating evidence were put to the accused. The accused
 reiterated her defence. She further submitted that: She further submitted as follows: 8. She further submitted that the working environment in the complainant company
 was very difficult and the attitude of the MD of the complainant company was
 reprehensible and amounted to sexual harassment. Matter was thereafter fixed for
 defence evidence. Accused examined herself as DW-1. Accused has relied on the
 following documents in support of her case: 9. Defence evidence was closed vide order dated 19.08.2023 and the matter was
 listed for final arguments. 10. During the course of arguments, Ld. Counsel for complainant argued that in view
 of the fact that the accused has admitted her signatures on the cheque in
 question, the presumptions under 118(a)/139 NI Act are attracted and the case
 is fit for conviction. It was argued that as per the terms and conditions laid down Digitally signed KATYAYINI by KATYAYINI SHARMA SHARMA KANDWAL
 KANDWAL Date: 2024.05.03
 15:11:33 +0530 CC No. 513335/16 Crescore Wealth Management Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Amrita Kumari Page 4 of 19 in Bond Ex. CW 1/3 and Agreement Ex. CW 1/4, there is legally enforceable debt
 of Rs. 55,000/- payable by accused to the complainant. It was argued that the
 cheque in question is the same as mentioned in the Bond Ex. CW1/3 and that the
 defence taken by accused at various stages of trial is contradictory which is
 unconvincing and untrustworthy. It was also submitted that there was no whisper
 of sexual harassment by accused in her resignation email Ex. CW1/5 and hence,
 her defence that she left the job due to sexual harassment met out to her is not
 plausible. Ld. Counsel placed reliance on Triyambak S. Hegde v. Sripad (2022) 1
 SCC 742, Sandhya Rani v. State of Kerela 2020 (2) KLJ 921, Association of
 Medical Superspeciality Aspirants and Residents and Ors v. Union of India &
 Ors ( 2019) 8 SCC 607 and Niranjan Shankar Golikari v. the Century Spinning
 and Mfg. Co. Ltd. 1967 SCC OnLine SC 72. 11. Per contra, Ld. Counsel for accused argued that there is no legally enforceable
 debt payable by accused to the complainant and the cheque in question does not
 represent any legally enforceable debt at the time of encashment. He argued that
 the present case has been filed by the complainant company as a counterblast to
 the FIR No. 297/2014 under section 354 / 354A(1) / 509 of the Indian Penal Code,
 1860 in Police Station Prasad Nagar, registered against its Managing Director
 namely Mr. Rajan Sareen by the accused. Ld. Counsel further argued that the
 bond Ex. CW 1/3 is unconstitutional and unenforceable under section 23 of the
 Indian Contract Act, 1872 as it is opposed to the Public Policy. It was submitted
 that even if the pleas taken by accused at various stages of trial are contradictory
 to each other, it does not affect the case of accused as she is entitled to take as
 many defences as she wants. He averred that the complainant has failed to show
 how the estimate of damages was calculated and that the complainant company
 has not incurred any loss or damages that the accused is liable to pay. Ld. Counsel
 placed reliance on Dashrathbhai Trikambhai Patel v. Hitesh Mahendrabhai
 Patel ( 2023) 1 SCC 578, Track Innovations India (P) Ltd. v. Union of India 2010 SCC OnLine Del 1999, Maula Bax v. Union of India ( 1969) 2 SCC 554,
 V.S. Saini v. D.C.M. Ltd. 2012 SCC OnLine Del 2317 and Krishna Janardhan
 Bhat v. Dattatraya G. Hegde (2008) 4 SCC 54. 12. Before delving into the facts of the case, it is apposite to bear in mind the law with
 respect to section 138 , NI Act. In order to prove his case under section 138 NI
 Act, the complainant must prove the following facts- 13. Further, the NI Act raises two important legal presumptions in favour of the
 holder of the cheque as soon as the execution of cheque is proved. As per Section
 118(a) NI Act, it shall be presumed that every negotiable instrument was 'made,
 accepted, transferred, negotiated or endorsed for consideration, unless the contrary
 is proved'. Furthermore, as per section 139 NI Act, it shall be presumed that 'the
 holder of cheque, received the cheque for the discharge, in whole or in part, of any
 debt or other liability, unless the contrary is proved.' 14. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Basalingappa v. Mudibasappa , (2019) 5
 SCC 418 : 2019 SCC OnLine SC 491 at page 422 held as follows: KATYAYINI by KATYAYINI SHARMA SHARMA KANDWAL
 KANDWAL Date: 2024.05.03
 15:11:57 +0530 CC No. 513335/16 Crescore Wealth Management Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Amrita Kumari Page 6 of 19 (ii) The presumption under Section 139 is a rebuttable presumption and the
 onus is on the accused to raise the probable defence. The standard of
 proof for rebutting the presumption is that of preponderance of
 probabilities. (iii) To rebut the presumption, it is open for the accused to rely on evidence
 led by him or accused can also rely on the materials submitted by the
 complainant in order to raise a probable defence. Inference of
 preponderance of probabilities can be drawn not only from the
 materials brought on record by the parties but also by reference to the
 circumstances upon which they rely. (iv) That it is not necessary for the accused to come in the witness box in
 support of his defence, Section 139 imposed an evidentiary burden and
 not a persuasive burden. ANALYSIS/REASONING 15. At the very outset, it is pertinent to note that in the present matter the cheque in
 question i.e. Ex.CW1/6 was issued on 25.06.2014 and was dishonored vide return
 memos Ex. CW 1/7 dated 24.07.2014 with the reason 'funds insufficient'.
 Thereafter, a legal notice (Ex.CW1/8) was sent by the complainant on 19.08.2014
 to the accused. The accused in her notice framed under section 251 CrPC admitted
 receipt of legal demand notice. The present matter was instituted by the
 complainant on 27.09.2014. 16. The case of the complainant is that the cheque in question was issued by accused
 in discharge of her liability as per the terms of the Bond which got dishonored
 upon presentation. During the course of trial, the accused has admitted her
 signatures over the cheque in question. As far as receipt of legal demand notice is
 concerned, the accused in her notice framed under section 251 CrPC stated that
 she received the legal demand notice but in her statement recorded under section
 313 CrPC, she stated that she does not remember anything about the legal demand
 notice. However, during her cross-examination on 19.08.2023, the accused
 KATYAYINI Digitally
 KATYAYINI
 signed by

 SHARMA SHARMA KANDWAL
 Date: 2024.05.03
 KANDWAL 15:12:08 +0530 CC No. 513335/16 Crescore Wealth Management Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Amrita Kumari Page 7 of 19 admitted that the legal demand notice was correctly addressed. Since no
 independent evidence regarding non-receipt of legal demand notice has been led
 by the accused, considering that it has been properly addressed and posted by the
 complainant (as proved by the postal receipts Ex. CW1/9), the same is presumed
 to have been delivered under section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872
 (hereinafter "IEA") and Section 27 of General Clauses Act as well as in view of
 the law laid down in C.C. Alavi Haji v. Palapetty Muhammed , (2007) 3 SCC
 (Cri) 236, wherein it was held as follows: 17. In view of the same, this Court is of the view that legal demand notice was duly
 served upon the accused. Therefore, the presentation of the cheque in question, its
 dishonorment and service of legal demand notice stand proved. It is also
 established that the cheque in question belongs to accused and even the signatures
 have been proved. Once these facts are established, a presumption of the cheque
 having been issued in discharge of a legally existing liability and drawn for good
 consideration arises by virtue of Section 118(a) and Section 139 of the NI Act. 18. The effect of the presumption has been explained in a catena of judgments,
 including the decisions in, Hiten P. Dalal v. Bratindranath Banerjee (2001) 6
 SCC 16 and RohitbhaiJivanlal Patel v. State of Gujarat &Anr (2019) 18 SCC 106. It has been held time and again that the said presumption is a rebuttable one
 and its only effect is to shift the initial burden of proof on the accused. When the
 presumption is raised in favor of the complainant, the burden shifts upon the
 accused to disprove the case of the complainant by rebutting the presumption raised
 in favour of the complainant. It is well settled that in order to rebut the presumption
 and shift back the burden of proof on the complainant, the accused is only required
 to raise a probable defence and he cannot be expected to discharge an unduly high Digitally signed KATYAYINI by KATYAYINI SHARMA SHARMA KANDWAL
 KANDWAL Date: 2024.05.03
 15:12:20 +0530 CC No. 513335/16 Crescore Wealth Management Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Amrita Kumari Page 8 of 19 standard of proof. Therefore, the standard of proof for rebutting the presumption
 under Section 139 NI Act is "preponderance of probabilities". The accused has to
 make out a fairly plausible defence which is acceptable to the Court. The accused
 can do the same, either by leading direct evidence in his defence or by raising doubt
 on the material/evidence brought on record by the complainant. 19. Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kumar Carpets v. Sharma Exports (2009) 2 SCC 513
 held as follows: 20. To sum up the above mentioned judgment, to disprove the presumptions, the
 accused should bring on record such facts and circumstances, upon consideration Digitally signed KATYAYINI by KATYAYINI SHARMA SHARMA KANDWAL
 KANDWAL Date: 2024.05.03
 15:12:33 +0530 CC No. 513335/16 Crescore Wealth Management Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Amrita Kumari Page 9 of 19 of which, the Court may either believe that the consideration and debt did not
 exist or their non-existence was so probable that a prudent man would under the
 circumstances of the case, act upon the plea that they did not exist. However, at
 the same time, it is also to be remembered that bare denial of the existence of
 legally enforceable debt or other liability cannot be said to be sufficient to rebut
 the presumption and something which is probable has to be brought on record to
 shift the burden back to the complainant. Keeping these basic principles in mind,
 this Court shall now proceed to deal with the defence taken by the accused and
 examine whether the accused has been able to rebut the presumption arising in
 favour of the complainant. 21. The case of complainant is that the accused has outstanding liability equivalent
 to the cheque amount as the accused had entered into the Bond Ex. CW1/3 and
 Agreement Ex. CW1/4 with the complainant company after accepting their offer
 of employment given vide offer letter Ex. CW1/2. Ld. Counsel for complainant
 has argued that the accused has voluntarily entered into the aforesaid agreements
 with the complainant company wherein she is liable to pay Rs. 55,000/- if she
 violates the conditions of Bond Ex. CW1/3. 22. Conditions regarding service of employee with the complainant company, terms
 of service, period of service, period of bond, the manner in which an employee
 can leave the complainant company during the bond period and resultant penalty
 have been provided in the Bond Ex. CW1/3 and Agreement Ex. CW1/4. For the
 sake of clarity, it is pertinent to reproduce certain relevant terms and conditions
 of Bond Ex. CW1/3 and Agreement Ex. CW1/4, which are as follows: Now it is to be examined if her outstanding liability in lieu of her resignation from
 the complainant company amounted to Rs. 55,000/-. UNCONSTITUTIONAL OR UNFORCEABLE BOND/AGREEMENT 24. It is argued by Ld. Counsel for accused that the Bond Ex. CW1/3 is
 unconstitutional or unenforceable as hit by Article 14 of Constitution and sections
 19 , 53 and 74 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (hereinafter "the Contract Act ").
 He has relied on Track Innovations (Supra) to submit that reasonableness or
 fairness of a clause in a contract where there is inequality of bargaining power has
 to be tested. He also stated that the contract is also voidable under section 19 of
 the Contract Act as the accused had no bargaining power and that it was due to
 non-congenial environment and sexual harassment met with her that she was
 constrained to resign merely after two months of her appointment. He relied on section 53 of the Contract Act to state that it was due to behaviour of Managing
 Director of the complainant company that the accused could not continue her job
 for 12 months. 25. Section 19 of the Contract Act provides that where consent of a party to an
 agreement has been provided by fraud, mistake or misrepresentation, the contract
 becomes voidable at the instance of party whose consent is so caused. Section 53 of the Contract Act provides that where one party to contract prevents the other Digitally signed KATYAYINI by KATYAYINI SHARMA SHARMA KANDWAL
 KANDWAL Date: 2024.05.03
 15:13:17 +0530 CC No. 513335/16 Crescore Wealth Management Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Amrita Kumari Page 12 of 19 party from performing his promise, the contract becomes voidable at the option of
 party so prevented. Section 74 of the Contract Act provides that if a sum has been
 named in the contract as amount to be paid in case of breach, only reasonable
 compensation can be sought which cannot exceed the amount/penalty stipulated
 for. 26. In Association of Medical Superspeciality (Supra), it was held by the Hon'ble
 Apex Court that service bonds to serve for a particular number of years and in
 default to recompense the Government by paying some lakhs of rupees do not
 violate Article 14 , 19 , 21 and 23 of the Constitution. It was also held that such
 service bonds do not violate section 14 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 and section 27 of the Contract Act. It was further held that compulsory service and
 default clause is not unreasonable. In Niranjan Shankar Golikari (Supra), it was
 held by Hon'ble Apex Court that negative covenants operative during the period
 of employment when the employee is bound to serve his employer exclusively are
 not be regarded as restraint of trade and therefore, do not fall under section 27 of
 the Contract Act. It was further held that that injunction can be granted by the
 court to the extent that it is necessary to protect the employers' interests where the
 negative stipulation is not void. 27. In the present case, execution of Bond Ex. CW1/3 and Agreement Ex. CW1/4 has
 not been disputed by the accused. The terms regarding mandatory bond of one (1)
 year and payment of penalty of Rs. 55,000/- have been clearly laid down in both
 the documents. To prove that the contract was voidable under section 19 or section 53 of the Contract Act, the burden was on the accused to prove that her
 consent was caused by fraud, mistake or misrepresentation or that she was
 prevented by the complainant company from performing the Agreement as it is
 accused who wants the court to believe in the existence of such facts. However,
 apart from mere statements, no independent evidence has been led by the accused
 to prove the aforementioned facts. In fact, not even a suggestion has been given to
 CW-1 to state that the terms regarding bond and payment of penalty are not
 reasonable or that in the usual course of business, such conditions are not inserted
 in employment agreements by the employers. No suggestion regarding fraud,
 KATYAYINI Digitally signed by
 KATYAYINI SHARMA
 SHARMA KANDWAL
 Date: 2024.05.03
 KANDWAL 15:13:30 +0530 CC No. 513335/16 Crescore Wealth Management Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Amrita Kumari Page 13 of 19 mistake, misrepresentation or undue influence has been given to CW-1 at the time
 of cross-examination. Furthermore, no evidence has been placed on record to
 show that the complainant company prevented the accused from performing the
 contract between itself and the accused. In fact, it was after email Ex. CW1/5 was
 sent to the accused that she resigned from her position as sales executive in reply
 to the aforesaid email, which has also been admitted by the accused. During her
 cross-examination, the accused stated that she made oral complaints to the Human
 Resources Department of the complainant company regarding the working
 conditions but has not adduced any evidence on prove to prove her statement. In
 the present case, the accused could have led independent evidence in the form of
 testimonies of reliable witnesses or any documentary proof to show that the
 working conditions in the complainant company were not congenial or that the
 harassment met out to her made it impossible for her to honor the terms of the
 Agreement. Further, mere filing of FIR against the Managing Director of the
 complainant company would not discharge burden of proof in the present case
 which is separate and distinct from the FIR case and is based on determination of
 liability of accused on the basis of cheque in question and the agreements between
 the parties. Additionally, the case registered on the basis of FIR lodged by accused
 is sub-judice and its issues cannot be decided in the present case. 28. Further, the bond amount has been calculated by the complainant company as
 equivalent to two month salary of the accused, which is clearly provided in the
 Bond and the Agreement. It is logical that bonds are executed by companies to
 safeguard their interests wherein penalty clause may be inserted to ensure that
 where the company has spent time and resources to train an employee, such
 employee serves the company for a minimum period. Moreover, the period of
 bond in the present case is not indefinite and one year cannot, under any
 circumstances, be called unreasonable. Therefore, in the opinion of this Court and
 in view of the law laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court, the conditions of bond
 cannot be discarded merely because it was entered into between an employer and
 employee. It has to be specifically proven by the accused that the employer
 misused his authority to create a contract which is either prima facie unreasonable Digitally signed by KATYAYINI KATYAYINI SHARMA SHARMA KANDWAL
 KANDWAL Date: 2024.05.03
 15:13:42 +0530 CC No. 513335/16 Crescore Wealth Management Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Amrita Kumari Page 14 of 19 or can be deduced as unreasonable on the basis of evidence adduced by the
 parties. Since no evidence has been placed on record to prove fraud, mistake,
 misrepresentation or undue influence of the complainant company or to prove that
 the terms of the Bond and the Agreement are unreasonable or to prove that it was
 the act of complainant company which prevented the accused from performing the
 contract, this defence of accused cannot be accepted. NO LOSS OR DAMAGE INCURRED BY THE COMPLAINANT
 COMPANY 29. It was further argued on behalf of accused that the complainant company has also
 not incurred any loss or damages which entitles it to recover the Bond amount as
 the accused was a mere sales executive who did not require any training. Reliance
 was placed on Maula Bux (Supra) and V.S. Saini (Supra). The present case is
 not a recovery suit like in V.S. Saini (Supra) or a suit where forfeiture of advance
 amount or earnest money like in Maula Bux (Supra) is in question rather it is a
 case under section 138 of NI Act wherein the presumption under section
 118(a) / 139 of NI Act, as discussed earlier, has been raised in favour of
 complainant. As per the judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in Basalingappa (Supra), once the execution of cheque is admitted, Section 139 of the Act
 mandates a presumption that the cheque was for the discharge of any debt or other
 liability. The burden of proving that the cheque was not issued for discharge of a
 debt or liability, by preponderance of probability, is upon the accused. Therefore,
 the burden of proving that that the estimated damages to the complainant
 company were not equivalent to the amount as mentioned in the Bond Ex. CW1/3
 and the Agreement Ex. CW1/4 was on the accused. However, the accused has not
 led any independent evidence to prove the same. The accused could have led
 independent evidence to prove that she was not imparted any training during the
 course of her job and therefore, the amount spent on her by the complainant
 company is not equivalent to the cheque in question or that it doesn't represent the
 correct estimate of loss or damage incurred to the complainant company. Moreover, even for the sake of argument if it is considered that the accused was
 not imparted any training by the complainant company, loss to the company
 cannot be categorized in a straitjacket formula. Loss can be incurred even when
 employer has to undergo the process of recruiting another manpower for the same
 position because an employee has suddenly left her job. In the absence of any
 evidence to substantiate the submissions of the accused, this defence of accused
 does not inspire confidence of this Court. CHEQUE DOES NOT REPRESENT LEGALLY ENFORCEABLE DEBT
 AT THE TIME OF ENCASHMENT 30. Ld. Counsel has also argued that arguendo, if conditions of the Bond are
 admitted, the cheque in question does not represent legally enforceable debt at the
 time of encashment as her arrears of salary for one month and reimbursement
 were due upon the complainant company. It was further stated that her salary of
 approximately Rs. 18,333/- with mobile reimbursements of Rs. 5,000/- were due
 to the accused and therefore, the maximum amount for which the cheque could
 have been presented by the complainant was Rs. 31,677/-. He has relied on the
 judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in Dashrathbhai (Supra) in support of his
 submission. 31. Without disputing the ratio Dashrathbhai (Supra), this Court is of the view that
 the cited judgment does not apply to the facts of the present case as the main issue
 decided in Dashrathbhai (Supra) is if part payment received by complainant
 before a cheque is presented for encashment has been endorsed at the time of
 presentation of the cheque. No such part payment of amount allegedly due under
 the Bond has been made by the accused to make Dashrathbhai (Supra) relevant
 to the facts of the present case. 32. Clause 1.3 (v) of the Agreement Ex. CW1/4 clearly states that if the employee
 wishes to leave the company within bond period, she would have to pay Rs.
 55,000/- to the complainant company but her notice period could be waived at the
 discretion of the management. In the present case, email dated 23.06.2014 was Digitally signed KATYAYINI by KATYAYINI SHARMA SHARMA KANDWAL
 KANDWAL Date: 2024.05.03
 15:14:07 +0530 CC No. 513335/16 Crescore Wealth Management Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Amrita Kumari Page 16 of 19 sent by complainant company after the accused failed to report to office for almost
 6 days in reply to which accused sent email dated 24.06.2014 (Ex. CW1/5)
 tendering her resignation. Notice period to be served by the accused in case of
 termination of employment within the period of bond is provided in clause 1.3 (iv)
 of the Agreement Ex. CW1/4. However, in the event that the accused wanted to
 terminate the employment, waiver of notice period could only be done at the
 discretion of the management. The accused has not adduced any evidence to prove
 that she offered to serve the notice period as prescribed or that it was waived off
 by the complainant company. Since, the notice period has not been served by the
 accused, she cannot claim that her salary for one month was due as it is clear on
 reading of the aforesaid clauses that she would have to pay one month's salary for
 not serving of the notice period. Therefore, even this defence of accused does not
 inspire confidence of this court. 33. Furthermore, relying on Krishna Janardhan Bhat (Supra), Ld. Counsel has also
 stated that "legally enforceable debt" against the cheque cannot be presumed even
 if the signatures on the cheques have been admitted by the accused. In this aspect,
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rangappa v. Sri Mohan (2010) 11 SCC 441 has
 overruled Krishna Janardhan Bhat (Supra) in to the extent that it held that
 presumption under section 139 of the NI Act does not include existence of a
 legally enforceable debt or liability. It was held as follows: (emphasis supplied)
 Hence, it is clear that presumption mandated under section 139 of the NI Act
 includes existence of a legally enforceable debt or liability. In view of the same,
 even this argument of Ld. Counsel for accused is liable to be rejected. 34. Ld. Counsel for accused has also pointed out the difference in the cheque numbers
 mentioned in the Bond and the Agreement to show that the complainant has not
 been able to conclusively establish that the cheque in question was issued by the
 accused for the purpose as alleged by them. Per contra, Ld. Counsel for
 complainant submitted that the cheque in question was handed over by the
 accused prior to the cheque as mentioned in the Agreement Ex. CW1/4 but the
 accused could not get the latter cheque verified from the concerned bank and
 therefore, the cheque in question was used. The explanation provided by Ld.
 Counsel for complainant appears to be plausible as the particulars of the cheque in
 question have been duly filled (though with ink of pen) in the Bond Ex. CW1/3.
 Furthermore, at the stage of framing of notice against her under section 251 of the
 CrPC, the accused had admitted she had given the cheque in question to the
 complainant after signing the same in blank and has never disputed her signatures
 on it, which is sufficient to raise presumption that the cheque was issued in
 discharge of debt or legal liability. Hence, even this argument of accused is liable
 to be rejected. CASE FILED AS A COUNTER BLAST 35. Another defence taken by the accused is that the present case has been filed by the
 complainant company as a counter blast to the FIR lodged by the accused against
 the Managing Director of complainant company, under section section
 354 / 354A(1) / 509 of the IPC. It was argued that due to the harassment met out to
 the accused, she stopped going to the office and ultimately tendered her
 resignation vide email Ex. CW1/5 after which FIR was filed by her. 36. The present case pertains to offence under section 138 of the NI Act and not the
 sections under which the aforesaid FIR has been registered by the accused. The
 burden in the present case if of proving/disproving the existence of ingredients as
 provided under section 138 NI Act. Since, the accused has admitted her signatures
 on the cheque in question, the presumption under section 118(a) / 139 of NI Act
 has arisen and what was to be determined here is if the presumption has been
 rebutted by the accused by proving that there is no "legally enforceable debt". The
 accused has failed to discharge the burden of proof upon in her in this respect
 while the complainant has brought on record overwhelming documentary
 evidence which has been admitted by the accused. 37. Having considered the entire evidence, this court is of the opinion that the accused
 has not been able to prove her defence either by oral or documentary evidence.
 The complainant, on the basis of evidence on record, has clearly proven that that
 accused had legally enforceable liability equivalent to the cheque amount in the
 present case and has successfully proven all the essential ingredients of Sec.138 NI Act. 38. Accordingly, accused Amrita Kumari is held guilty for committing the offence
 punishable under section 138 NI Act. The accused is hereby convicted for the
 offence under section 138 NI Act. 39. Let the convict be heard on the point of sentence separately. 40. A copy of this judgment be placed on the official website of the District Courts. (THIS JUDGMENT CONTAINS 19 PAGES AND EACH PAGE IS SIGNED BY
ME) CC No. 513335/16 Crescore Wealth Management Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Amrita Kumari Page 19 of 19