30.11.2023
 Heard Mr D Das, learned counsel for the petitioner, Shri Samuel Boro. 2. The petitioner has filed this application under Section 439 CrPC, with prayer for
bail, as he is in jail since 15.09.2023, in connection with Cyber Police Station Case No.
8/2023, under Sections 120B / 490 / 420 / 385 / 467 / 471 / 468 / 507 IPC, read with Sections
65 / 66 / 66B / 66C / 66D of the IT Act. Page No.# 2/9 3. Heard Mr M Phukan, learned Public Prosecutor, Assam. 4. The FIR unfolds that with reference to the GD Entry No. 200, dated 13.09.2023,
information was received from a reliable source that some miscreants were involved in
operating call centres across India and through the call centres they have been cheating
gullible Indian and Foreign Nationals by impersonating as Tech Support Staff. Pop-ups
are sent by impersonating legitimate customer service representatives to deceive such
individuals and defraud them by cheating them to procure payment from the individuals
and also personal information of the individuals. Various false claims to create a sense of
urgency or fear and trepidation was fraudulently instilled to coerce the individuals to
part with valuable security and money by implying that a computer virus has infected
and personal identifiable information are at risk as computer or social media account of
such individuals have been hacked. Thereafter, the miscreants initiated contact through
unsolicited phone calls claiming to be from a well-known company or organization such
as bank, tech support, government agency, or even popular online service for their
financial gain. The miscreants asked the victims to install remote desktop software to
prevent accessibility to their computers for security of their personal information and
security against malware. The miscreants consisting of a gang of scammers had
associates and members across India for laundering the money obtained through these
scams. 5. It is further alleged that on receipt of the source of information, the Investigating
Officer (Inspector of Police, Crime Branch, Guwahati), along with his staff made an
enquiry in the area under the Guwahati city and it was unearthed that the accused named
in the FIR with other accomplices have illegally set up customer care centres/call centres
as per information received at Bamunimaidam, Mono Motors building at
Bamunimaidam, at VIP road opposite Trust Motors, Outspire Solutions at Zoo Road,
above AG Medicare at Rajgarh Road, near Hotel D Agni Dip at ABC and few other
places of Guwahati, which are operated to cheat Indian and Foreign Nationals by posing as
 Page No.# 3/9

Tech Support Staff. During enquiry, intel received was found to be true to its nature. The
accused persons named in the FIR were found to be masterminds involved in the
offence. It is further alleged that the accused persons named in the FIR and their
associates had manipulated and forged electronic documents and used them as genuine
documents for the purpose of cheating and they have been found to be actively operating
the scam for a long time. 6. It is further alleged that the fraudulently procured funds have been laundered
through unsolicited sources via unconventional methods, dark web services and crypto
currencies for personal gain of the accused persons named in the FIR. 7. The learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the petitioner is not
involved in the scam. The learned counsel for the petitioner has prayed for bail on the
ground of parity as co-accused have been granted bail. No offence under Section 467 IPC has been made out against the petitioner, but Section 467 IPC has been incorporated
with malafide to preclude the accused from being admitted to bail. Section 467 IPC
expounds that- 467. Forgery of valuable security, will, etc.--Whoever forges a
 document which purports to be a valuable security or a will, or an
 authority to adopt a son, or which purports to give authority to any
 person to make or transfer any valuable security, or to receive the
 principal, interest or dividends thereon, or to receive or deliver any
 money, movable property, or valuable security, or any document
 purporting to be an acquittance or receipt acknowledging the payment
 of money, or an acquittance or receipt for the delivery of any movable
 property or valuable security, shall be punished with 4[imprisonment
 for life], or with imprisonment of either description for a term which
 may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine. 8. It is submitted that the other sections under which the petitioner is alleged to have
committed an offence, does not fall under the IPC , but the offence alleged falls under
 Page No.# 4/9 Sections 65 / 66 / 66B / 66C / 66D of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (the IT Act , for
short) and all the offences are bailable in nature. The offences under the IPC registered
against the present petitioner prescribes punishment only upto 10 years and the
petitioner has been wrongfully confined in custody as he is behind bars since
15.09.2023. Except Section 467 of the IPC, it is submitted that Section 81 of the IT Act
has an overriding effect. Section 81 of the IT Act reads as under:- accused are on foreign shores. Granting bail to the present petitioner will entail
in adversely affecting the investigation as this is a case relating to cybercrime
which can be committed from a remote area. Digital records can be easily
manipulated from a remote area and granting him bail will be perilous as many
individuals have already been cheated and the petitioner has benefitted through
such nefarious activities. The learned Public Prosecutor has submitted to reject
the bail petition as the import of the offence with which the petitioner is alleged,
does not entitle him to bail. 11. It is also submitted that the call centres were opened on the basis of fake
 Page No.# 5/9

documents and fake identity proof. 12. It is further submitted that several accused involved in this offence are
evading arrest and some are even on foreign shores and absconding arrest. I
have perused the seizure list. Several desktop computers and other relevant
articles have been seized in connection with this case from various locations
around the Guwahati city area. The petitioner is an employee and he is deeply
involved in running fake call centres. Several vehicles, documents, tenancy
agreements for hiring the premises were found to be fake, during investigation. 13. The learned Public Prosecutor has further submitted that although the
petitioner has submitted that all the computers laptops and official digital
records have been seized in connection with this case, yet cybercrime cannot be
prevented by seizure of official digital records. It has to be borne in mind that
this offence is a cybercrime, which can also be committed from a remote area. 14. It is true that the petitioner, Shri Samuel Boro is a resident of Durga Sarovar,
Maligaon Railway Headquarters, Kamrup (Metro), Guwahati. There are incriminating
materials that the petitioner is an employee of illegal call centres or fake call centres at
Guwahati, along with his other accomplices. One call centre is located at Rajgarh Road
and the other near Mono Motors Building at Bamunimaidam. It is also submitted that
money trail is yet to be ascertained due to the hurdle created by circulation of money
through fake accounts, bit coins and by dark web. 15. I have considered the submissions at the Bar with circumspection. 16. It is submitted that the petitioner is booked under bailable offence as Section 81 of the IT Act has an overriding effect in relation to offences under
Section IPC , except Section 467 of the IPC. It is also submitted that Section 467 of the IPC has been incorporated with malafide. It has been observed by a
 Page No.# 6/9

coordinate Bench of this Court vide order dated 08.11.2023 in Bail Application
No. 4012/2023 that- 17. The learned Public Prosecutor has relied on the decision of Neeru Yadav -Vs-
State of UP & Anr., reported in (2014) 16 SCC 508, wherein it has been held and
observed that- 18. The learned Public Prosecutor has also relied on the decision of Hon'ble the
 Page No.# 7/9

Supreme Court in Tarun Kumar -Vs- Assistant Director Directorate of Enforcement,
in SLP (Crl.) No. 9431 of 2023, decided on 20.11.2023, where it has been held and
observed that- 19. The learned Public Prosecutor has prayed to dismiss the petition as the petitioner is
involved in an organized crime and his network has tentacles spread even to remote
locations and have duped citizens in foreign shores. It is also submitted that the
statements of the witnesses under 161 CrPC , have incriminated the petitioner. 20. I have scrutinized the Case Diary. I have perused the statements of the witnesses
under Section 161 CrPC. 21. Indeed, there are incriminating materials in the Case Diary against the petitioner.
The learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the petitioner is booked under
the IPC , but the sections of the IPC has an overriding effect as per Section 81 of the IT
Act, 2000. The sections of the IPC in pari materia to the sections of the IT Act , under
which the petitioner is booked will be governed solely by the IT Act and all the offences
under which the petitioner is booked under the IT Act are bailable offences. The
assiduous argument relating to Section 467 IPC cannot be considered at this juncture as
investigation is still under progress. 22. Considering the nature of the offence and the fact that several fake call centres are
involved in this case, investigation has progressed with a slow pace. At this juncture, it
 Page No.# 9/9

cannot be ascertained if the petitioner is not liable under Section 467 IPC. It cannot be
presumed at this stage that, once the petitioner is granted bail, he will shift base and
again repeat the offence from remote locations. The petitioner has pledged to abide by
any bail conditions imposed upon him. 23. Considering all aspects and in view of my foregoing discussions, I deem it proper
to enlarge the petitioner on bail under the following conditions:- 24. Bail Application stands disposed of. 25. Send back the Case Diary. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant