1. The petition in hand has been preferred by the accused -

petitioners, under Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita,

2023, for quashing of FIR No.38 dated 27.06.2025 (hereinafter to be referred

as the impugned FIR) registered under Sections 318(4), 336(3), 338, 340, 61

of BNS at Police Station PS Cyber Sonipat, Haryana, as also the proceedings

subsequent thereto, on the basis of a compromise deed dated 20.09.2025

(appended as Annexure P-2 with the present petition). 2. The gravamen of the impugned FIR is that the complainant

namely Divya daughter of Suresh Kumar, Resident of 1008/3, SBI Lane, New

Colony, Railway Road, Sonipat alleged that she is employed as an

Accountant at Institute of Competitive Studies Pvt. Ltd, having an account

with the HDFC Bank bearing Account No.50200053031318. On 24.06.2025,

a total of seven unauthorized transactions amounting to Rs.14,83,696/- were

carried out from the said account without the knowledge or consent of the

complainant. No OTP or transaction message was received at the time of

 1 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 2 these transactions. Upon logging into net banking, the complainant

discovered the fraudulent withdrawals. The complainant later learned that

the money had been transferred to fraudulent accounts opened using fake

documents through a fake website. Thereafter, an online complaint was

lodged at the Cyber Crime Helpline (1930) and a complaint was registered

under No.31306250043329. Based on this complaint, the present FIR has

been registered. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioners has argued that the

petitioners have been falsely implicated into the impugned FIR. According

to learned counsel, the matter has been amicably resolved between the parties

with the intervention of the respectable persons and respondent No.2-

complainant does not want to continue with the impugned FIR. Learned

counsel has further urged that a compromise was entered into between the

petitioners and the FIR-complainant on 20.09.2025, relevant whereof reads

as under:- Learned counsel has, thus, iterated that the FIR in question,

which was got registered on account of a misunderstanding, has since been

resolved between the parties and in order to keep peace as also harmony, the

 2 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 3 parties do not wish to continue with proceedings against each other, including

the impugned FIR. Learned counsel has further submitted that, pursuant to

order dated 25.09.2025 earlier passed by this Court, statements of the rival

private parties were recorded before the concerned Magistrate wherein the

said parties have reiterated having entered into settlement and a report dated

10.10.2025 has been received from the said Magisterial Court. Learned

counsel has further urged that no useful purpose would likely be served by

allowing the criminal prosecution to continue against the petitioners. Thus,

it has been entreated that the petition in hand be granted. 4. Learned State counsel has argued that the impugned FIR was

registered for serious allegations of cyber fraud involving fraudulent

transactions. According to learned State counsel, the offence of cyber fraud

not only affects the complainant but also erodes the public confidence in

digital banking transactions. Though the parties have entered into a

compromise and the complainant has expressed no objection to quashing of

the impugned FIR but while considering the compromise, the nature and

gravity of allegations are also to be taken into account as the offence(s) in

question pertains to cyber and financial fraud. Learned State counsel has

emphasized that the power to quash lies with this Court under Section 528 of

BNSS, 2023 but it has to be exercised sparingly and cautiously. On the basis

of aforesaid submissions, learned State counsel has prayed for dismissal of

the petition in hand. 5. Learned counsel for the respondent No.2 has submitted that the

parties have amicably settled the matter with the petitioners. The complainant

has executed a compromise affidavit dated 20.09.2025 and categorically

stated that she has no objection if the impugned FIR and all proceedings

 3 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 4 arising therefrom are quashed against the petitioners. Furthermore, the

compromise has been arrived at voluntarily without any threat coercion or

undue influence. Thus, in view of the compromise duly executed between

the parties, learned counsel has prayed that the petition in hand be allowed

and the impugned FIR and all consequential proceedings emanating

therefrom be quashed. 6. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and have perused the

record. Prime Issue 7. The issue that arises for consideration in the petition in hand is

as to whether the impugned FIR and the proceedings arising therefrom

deserve to be quashed on the basis of compromise/settlement having been

arrived at between the rival private parties. The seminal legal issue that arises for rumination is as to whether

an FIR (as also proceedings emanating therefrom) can be quashed on the basis

of compromise/settlement between the rival parties wherein the FIR pertains

to allegations of cyber fraud. 8. Relevant Statutory Provisions

 The Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (hereinafter to be

referred as 'the Cr.P.C .) Section 482 of Cr.P.C., 1973 reads as under: The Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (hereinafter

to be referred as BNSS, 2023)

 4 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 5 Section of the BNSS, 2023 reads as under: Relevant Case Law 9. The precedents, apropos to the matter(s) in issue, are as follows: (II)When the parties have reached the settlement and on that basis
 petition for quashing the criminal proceedings is filed, the guiding
 factor in such cases would be to secure: However, the High Court would not rest its decision merely because
 there is a mention of Section 307 IPC in the FIR or the charge is
 framed under this provision. It would be open to the High Court to
 examine as to whether incorporation of Section 307 IPC is there for
 the sake of it or the prosecution has collected sufficient evidence,
 which if proved, would lead to proving the charge under Section
 307 IPC. For this purpose, it would be open to the High Court to
 go by the nature of injury sustained, whether such injury is inflicted
 on the vital/delegate parts of the body, nature of weapons used etc.
 Medical report in respect of injuries suffered by the victim can

 7 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 8 generally be the guiding factor. On the basis of this prima facie
 analysis, the High Court can examine as to whether there is a strong
 possibility of conviction or the chances of conviction are remote and
 bleak. In the former case it can refuse to accept the settlement and
 quash the criminal proceedings whereas in the later case it would
 be permissible for the High Court to accept the plea compounding
 the offence based on complete settlement between the parties. At
 this stage, the Court can also be swayed by the fact that the
 settlement between the parties is going to result in harmony between
 them which may improve their future relationship. (VII) While deciding whether to exercise its power under Section
 482 of the Code or not, timings of settlement play a crucial role.
 Those cases where the settlement is arrived at immediately after the
 alleged commission of offence and the matter is still under
 investigation, the High Court may be liberal in accepting the
 settlement to quash the criminal proceedings/investigation. It is
 because of the reason that at this stage the investigation is still on
 and even the charge sheet has not been filed. Likewise, those cases
 where the charge is framed but the evidence is yet to start or the
 evidence is still at infancy stage, the High Court can show
 benevolence in exercising its powers favourably, but after prima
 facie assessment of the circumstances/material mentioned above.
 On the other hand, where the prosecution evidence is almost
 complete or after the conclusion of the evidence the matter is at the
 stage of argument, normally the High Court should refrain from
 exercising its power under Section 482 of the Code, as in such cases
 the trial court would be in a position to decide the case finally on
 merits and to come a conclusion as to whether the offence
 under Section 307 IPC is committed or not. Similarly, in those cases
 where the conviction is already recorded by the trial court and the
 matter is at the appellate stage before the High Court, mere
 compromise between the parties would not be a ground to accept
 the same resulting in acquittal of the offender who has already been
 convicted by the trial court. Here charge is proved under Section
 307 IPC and conviction is already recorded of a heinous crime and,
 therefore, there is no question of sparing a convict found guilty of
 such a crime." (iii) In a judgment titled as Parbatbhai Aahir @ Parbatbhai

Bhimsinhbhai Karmur and Ors. Vs. State of Gujarat and anr. AIR 2017

 8 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 9 SUPREME COURT 4843, a three Judge Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court has held as under:- Heinous and serious offences involving mental depravity or
 offences such as murder, rape and dacoity cannot appropriately be
 quashed though the victim or the family of the victim have settled
 the dispute. Such offences are, truly speaking, not private in nature
 but have a serious impact upon society. The decision to continue
 with the trial in such cases is founded on the overriding element of
 public interest in punishing persons for serious offences; 9 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 10 (vii) As distinguished from serious offences, there may be criminal
 cases which have an overwhelming or predominant element of a
 civil dispute. They stand on a distinct footing in so far as the
 exercise of the inherent power to quash is concerned; (viii) Criminal cases involving offences which arise from
 commercial, financial, mercantile, partnership or similar
 transactions with an essentially civil flavour may in appropriate
 situations fall for quashing where parties have settled the dispute; (ix) In such a case, the High Court may quash the criminal
 proceeding if in view of the compromise between the disputants, the
 possibility of a conviction is remote and the continuation of a
 criminal proceeding would cause oppression and prejudice; and (x) There is yet an exception to the principle set out in propositions (viii) and (ix) above. Economic offences involving the financial and
 economic well-being of the state have implications which lie beyond
 the domain of a mere dispute between private disputants. The High
 Court would be justified in declining to quash where the offender is
 involved in an activity akin to a financial or economic fraud or
 misdemeanour. The consequences of the act complained of upon the
 financial or economic system will weigh in the balance." (iv) In a judgment titled as State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Laxmi

Narayan and others AIR 2019 SUPREME COURT 1296, a three Judge

Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under:- 10 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 11 that capacity are not to be quashed merely on the basis of
 compromise between the victim and the offender; iv) offences under Section 307 IPC and the Arms Act etc. would fall
 in the category of heinous and serious offences and therefore are to
 be treated as crime against the society and not against the
 individual alone, and therefore, the criminal proceedings for the
 offence under Section 307 IPC and/or the Arms Act etc. which have
 a serious impact on the society cannot be quashed in exercise of
 powers under Section 482 of the Code, on the ground that the
 parties have resolved their entire dispute amongst themselves.
 However, the High Court would not rest its decision merely because
 there is a mention of Section 307 IPC in the FIR or the charge is
 framed under this provision. It would be open to the High Court to
 examine as to whether incorporation of Section 307 IPC is there for
 the sake of it or the prosecution has collected sufficient evidence,
 which if proved, would lead to framing the charge under Section
 307 IPC. For this purpose, it would be open to the High Court to
 go by the nature of injury sustained, whether such injury is inflicted
 on the vital/delegate parts of the body, nature of weapons used etc.
 However, such an exercise by the High Court would be permissible
 only after the evidence is collected after investigation and the
 charge sheet is filed/charge is framed and/or during the trial. Such
 exercise is not permissible when the matter is still under
 investigation. Therefore, the ultimate conclusion in paragraphs
 29.6 and 29.7 of the decision of this Court in the case of Narinder
 Singh (supra) should be read harmoniously and to be read as a
 whole and in the circumstances stated hereinabove; v) while exercising the power under Section 482 of the Code to
 quash the criminal proceedings in respect of non-compoundable
 offences, which are private in nature and do not have a serious
 impart on society, on the ground that there is a
 settlement/compromise between the victim and the offender, the
 High Court is required to consider the antecedents of the accused;
 the conduct of the accused, namely, whether the accused was
 absconding and why he was absconding, how he had managed with
 the complainant to enter into a compromise etc." Analysis (re law) 10. The conventional outlook, in view of the statutory framework,

was that criminal offence(s) could be settled only by way of compounding, as
 11 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 12 per the provisions of Section 320 of the Cr.P.C., 1973 (now Section 359 of

BNSS, 2023). In ordinary parlance, "compounding" is known as

"compromise" or "settlement". This expression is, ordinarily, understood as

condoning a felony in exchange for repatriation received by the victim-

complainant from the felon. In other words, no compounding/compromise of

a criminal offence could be permitted by the Court, except for an offence

which met with rigours of the Section 320 of Cr.P.C. Therefore; the question

arose whether the High Court, by exercising its plenary/inherent jurisdiction,

under Section 482 of Cr.P.C., could quash ongoing FIR/criminal proceedings

on the basis of compromise/settlement having been arrived at between the

rival parties. 10.1. Before proceeding further, it would be germane to delve into the

nature, scope and ambit of powers of the High Court under Section 482 of

Cr.P.C., 1973. 10.2. Inherent powers of the High Court are those which are incidental

replete powers, which if did not so exist, the Court would be obliged to sit

still and helplessly see the process of law and the Courts being abused for the

purposes of injustice. In other words; such power(s) is intrinsic to the High

Court, it is its very life-blood, its very essence, its immanent attribute.

Without such power(s), the High Court would have a form but lack the

substance. These powers of the High Court, hence, deserve to be construed

with the widest possible amplitude. These inherent powers are in consonance

with the nature of the High Court which ought to be, and has in fact been,

invested with power(s) to maintain its authority to prevent the process of

law/Courts being obstructed or abused. It is a trite posit of jurisprudence that

though the laws attempt to deal with all cases that may arise, the infinite

 12 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 13 variety of circumstances which shape events and the imperfections of

language make it impossible to lay down provisions capable of governing

every case, which, in fact, arise. The High Court which exists for the

furtherance of justice in an indefatigable manner, should therefore, have

unfettered power(s) to deal with situations which, though not expressly

provided for by the law, need to be dealt with, to prevent injustice or the abuse

of the process of law and Courts. The maxim, namely, "quando lex aliquid

alicui concedit, concedere videtur et id sine quo res ipsa, esse non potest" 13 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 14 10.3 The above principle(s), in context of provisions of Section 482 of Cr.P.C, 1973, would apply with complete vigour, to the provisions of

Section 528 of BNSS of 2023 as well, since there is no alteration in the

wording of these two provisions. 11. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Gian Singh (supra)

has enunciated that the powers of the High Court for quashing of criminal

proceedings on the basis of settlement are materially different from

compounding of offence in terms of Section 320 of Cr.P.C., (Now Section

359 of BNSS, 2023) as a Court while exercising power under Section 320 of

Cr.P.C. (Now Section 359 of BNSS, 2023) is circumscribed by the statutory

provision but the High Court may proceed to quash a criminal

offence/criminal proceedings if the ends of justice justify exercise of such

power. It was thus held that the criminal cases having overwhelmingly and

predominantly civil flavour, offences arising out of matrimonial dispute,

offences arising out of family dispute, as also offences which are basically

private or personal in nature, could be quashed by the High Court in case the

parties have resolved their entire dispute(s). Further, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of Narinder Singh (supra) has held that the possibility of

conviction being remote and bleak, whereas continuation of the criminal case

is putting the accused to oppression and prejudice & the parties being put to

general inconvenience, as also prejudice could also be considered as

contributing factors by the High Court, while examining a plea for quashing

of criminal proceedings on the basis of settlement/compromise. However a

caution was made that cases involving heinous and serious offences of mental

depravity or offences like murder, rape, dacoity; offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act committed by public servants etc., ought not to

 14 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 15 be quashed while exercising such plenary jurisdiction. To the same effect is

the dicta of the judgment of three Judge Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in the case of Parbatbhai Aahir case (supra). Further, a three Judge Bench

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a judgment of Laxmi Narayan case (supra)

reiterated the principles laid-down in cases of Gian Singh (supra), Narinder

Singh (supra) and Parbatbhai Aahir (supra). The aureate enunciation of law,

in above case-law, essentially points out that the prime factors for

consideration of quashing of FIR/criminal proceedings on the basis of

compromise/settlement is that the dispute/offence is essentially private in

nature; continuation of criminal proceeding would be an exercise in futility

as its fait-accompli is known; pendency of such proceedings would be an

undesirable burden on the police/prosecution as also the Courts, who are

already struggling ardously to manage the ever increasing and unmanageable

docket and/or such quashing would ensure the ends of justice.

11.1 It is, thus, unequivocal that the plenary powers vested in a High

Court, by virtue of its very constitution, are to be exercised with

circumspection and in a manner befitting judicial propriety. The invocation

of inherent jurisdiction must serve the ends of justice, necessitating a holistic

evaluation of all the attendant circumstances. The criminal justice system is

not merely a forum for resolving interpersonal disputes; it embodies the

sovereign obligation of the State to safeguard the fundamental rights of its

citizens, including the protection of life, liberty, and property. In adjudicating

petitions seeking quashing of criminal proceedings on the basis of a purported

compromise between the parties, the court must transcend the immediate

assertions of harmony. While the absence of current grievances between

parties may be a material consideration, it cannot be the determinative

 15 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 16 criterion. The court is duty-bound to scrutinize the gravity of the allegations,

the nature of the offences, and their ramifications on the public order and

societal welfare. This judicial responsibility is accentuated in cases involving

heinous or egregious offences, where the broader societal interest outweighs

private settlements. Compromising such cases on the ground of mutual accord

risks undermining the public confidence in the justice delivery system and

jeopardizing the larger interest of law enforcement and might also imply some

kind of impunity being accorded to the erring party(s). 12. The contemporary felony of cyber fraud presents a transgression

sui generis that mandates its categorical exclusion from the judicial

indulgence for quashing of criminal proceedings solely on the basis of a

compromise/settlement having been arrived at between the

complainant/victim and the accused. Digital economy is the unassailable

locus of modern commerce, sustained entirely by the bedrock of public trust.

Cyber Fraud acts as a corrosive insurgency, causing not merely an isolated

pecuniary loss, but an aggravated systemic damage upon the public financial

exchequer, thereby inflicting profound in rem detriment. Owing to the

anonymity, trans-border expanse and a propensity of causing substantial

adverse impact, a court is compelled to look beyond the private settlement,

lest it may tantamount to granting judicial imprimatur to an ongoing systemic

threat. When such an offender escapes prosecution simply by offering post

facto restitution, the penal measure is ipso facto converted into a mere

calculus of profit and risk. The perpetrator of such an organized crime is

emboldened to treat the compromise/settlement as a predictable expense,

creating a deleterious lacuna in the law and gravely impacting the sanctity of

criminal justice system. When a cyber fraud is perpetrated, the immediate and

 16 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 17 visible financial deceit/loss is only the tip of the spear; the real victim is the

digital ecosystem itself. A private compromise/settlement between the rival

private parties, i.e. the accused and the complainant/victim, is merely an

ineffectual repudiation of individual liability, lacking utterly in addressing the

cascading and unquantifiable institutional injury. Pertinently, this Court is abundantly cognizant of the fact that

the sine qua non behind a complainant/victim's assent to a

compromise/settlement in cases of financial fraud remains the assured

restitution of the monies of which she has been duped/criminally divested.

This assurance of monetary indemnification acts as a sole allurement

motivating her to participate in compromise/settlement proceedings.

Nevertheless, such a compromise/settlement, having been arrived under the

allurement of monetary restitution, is inherently incapable of ameliorating the

inherent gravity and egregious nature of the offence of cyber fraud, which has

the propensity of causing extensive public detriment and imparting a

pernicious impact on the foundational trust, underpinning any commercial

activity. 12.1. Another aspect nay vital aspect of the lis in hand craves

attention. The legal landscape is replete with cases where invocation of

serious/grievous allegations pertaining to the stringent penal provisions (such

as those relating to the offence of cyber fraud), constitute an instrument of

premeditated hyperbole, scrupulously invoked to artificially inflate the

gravity of allegations, otherwise rooted in pecuniary bilateral transactions.

However, a more ruminated scrutiny reflects the inherent nature of

transgression to be that of simpliciter cheating, conspicuously devoid of the

 17 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 18 ingredient of public detriment required of an offence pertaining to cyber

fraud. In such a factual milieu, the rigid denial to exercise inherent powers as

saved by way of Section 528 of the BNSS, 2023, to sanction an otherwise

bona fide compromise/settlement of dispute(s), solely, because the

FIR/Criminal Complaint is ridden with the allegations of cyber fraud, would

tantamount to abdication of judicial duty, defeating the cause of substantial

justice. For, it is an irrevocable judicial principle that a court, in its

transcendent duty to ensure complete justice, must unflinchingly be cognizant

of practical exigencies and social verities. 12.2. To determine as to whether offence(s) in question pertains to a

situation where the allegations of cyber fraud have been made merely to lend

severity or it is inherently a case of cyber fraud simplicter, the Court is,

essentially, required to look into the entire factual milieu of the particular case

in hand. No exhaustive set of guideline(s) to govern, the exercise of this

aspect by the High Court, can possibly be laid down, however illecebrous this

aspect may be. It is neither fathomable nor desirable to lay down any

straightjacket formula in this regard. To do so would be to crystallize into a

rigid definition, a judicial discretion, which for best of all reasons deserve to

be left undetermined. Any attempt in this regard would be, to say the least, a

quixotic endeavour. Circumstantial flexibility, one additional or different

fact, may make a sea of difference between conclusions of two cases. Ergo,

such exercise would thus, indubitably, be dependent upon the factual matrix

of the particular case which the High Court is in seisin of, since every case

has its own peculiar factual conspectus. 13. As a sequitur of the above rumination, the following postulates

emerge: II. Where a meticulous judicial appraisal of facts reflects that the

cyber fraud allegations have been strategically invoked to lend unwarranted

gravity and seriousness to otherwise simpliciter pecuniary transaction inter-

se the Complainant/victim and the accused, the Court must not permit the

rigidity of law to defeat the ends of justice and may sanction the bona fide

compromise/settlement to put an end to the lis. III. To effectually determine as to whether the case in hand falls

within the ambit and scope of postulate (I) or postulate (II) (supra), the Court

must undertake a scrupulous and granular scrutiny of the entire factual milieu

of the case at hand. No exhaustive guidelines can possibly be laid-down for exercise

of aforesaid judicial discretion by a Court as every case has its own unique

factual conspectus. There is no gainsaying that an order passed by the Court,

while exercising such discretion, must be a speaking order clearly giving out

reasons therein & must be in consonance with the basic canons of Justice,

good conscience and equity. Analysis (re facts of the present case) 14. Reverting to the facts of the present case, the petition in hand

has been filed for quashing of the impugned FIR (as also the proceeding

emanating therefrom) on the basis of compromise deed(s) dated 20.09.2025. 19 of 20 ::: Downloaded on - 13-11-2025 03:20:48 ::: CRM-M-54453-2025 20 It is neither pleaded nor decipherable from the factual milieu of the case in

hand that the rival private parties were known to each other before hand or

that the offence is in the nature of a private dispute between them. On the

contrary, a bare perusal of the contents of the FIR in question, as also the

other factual aspects of the case in hand, it is abundantly deducible that the

case in hand pertains to a cyber fraud simpliciter. Ergo, the petition in hand

ought not to be entreated and deserves rejection. Decision 15. In view of the prevenient ratiocination, it is ordained thus: