R.F. NARIMAN, J. 1. This batch of writ petitions filed under Article 32 of the
Constitution of India raises very important and far-reaching questions
relatable primarily to the fundamental right of free speech and expression
guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India. The immediate
cause for concern in these petitions is Section 66A of the Information
Technology Act of 2000. This Section was not in the Act as originally
enacted, but came into force by virtue of an Amendment Act of 2009 with
effect from 27.10.2009. Since all the arguments raised by several counsel
for the petitioners deal with the unconstitutionality of this Section it is
set out hereinbelow: Explanation.- For the purposes of this section, terms "electronic mail" and
"electronic mail message" means a message or information created or
transmitted or received on a computer, computer system, computer resource
or communication device including attachments in text, image, audio, video
and any other electronic record, which may be transmitted with the
message."[1] 2. A related challenge is also made to Section 69A introduced by the
same amendment which reads as follows:- 3. The Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Bill which
introduced the Amendment Act stated in paragraph 3 that: 4. The petitioners contend that the very basis of Section 66A - that it
has given rise to new forms of crimes - is incorrect, and that Sections 66B to 67C and various Sections of the Indian Penal Code (which will be
referred to hereinafter) are good enough to deal with all these crimes. 5. The petitioners' various counsel raised a large number of points as
to the constitutionality of Section 66A . According to them, first and
foremost Section 66A infringes the fundamental right to free speech and
expression and is not saved by any of the eight subjects covered in Article
19(2). According to them, the causing of annoyance, inconvenience, danger,
obstruction, insult, injury, criminal intimidation, enmity, hatred or ill-
will are all outside the purview of Article 19(2). Further, in creating an
offence, Section 66A suffers from the vice of vagueness because unlike the
offence created by Section 66 of the same Act, none of the aforesaid terms
are even attempted to be defined and cannot be defined, the result being
that innocent persons are roped in as well as those who are not. Such
persons are not told clearly on which side of the line they fall; and it
would be open to the authorities to be as arbitrary and whimsical as they
like in booking such persons under the said Section. In fact, a large
number of innocent persons have been booked and many instances have been
given in the form of a note to the Court. The enforcement of the said
Section would really be an insidious form of censorship which impairs a
core value contained in Article 19(1)(a). In addition, the said Section
has a chilling effect on the freedom of speech and expression. Also, the
right of viewers is infringed as such chilling effect would not give them
the benefit of many shades of grey in terms of various points of view that
could be viewed over the internet. The petitioners also contend that their rights under Articles 14 and 21 are
breached inasmuch there is no intelligible differentia between those who
use the internet and those who by words spoken or written use other mediums
of communication. To punish somebody because he uses a particular medium of
communication is itself a discriminatory object and would fall foul of Article 14 in any case. 6. In reply, Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Additional Solicitor General
defended the constitutionality of Section 66A . He argued that the
legislature is in the best position to understand and appreciate the needs
of the people. The Court will, therefore, interfere with the legislative
process only when a statute is clearly violative of the rights conferred on
the citizen under Part-III of the Constitution. There is a presumption in
favour of the constitutionality of an enactment. Further, the Court would
so construe a statute to make it workable and in doing so can read into it
or read down the provisions that are impugned. The Constitution does not
impose impossible standards of determining validity. Mere possibility of
abuse of a provision cannot be a ground to declare a provision invalid.
Loose language may have been used in Section 66A to deal with novel methods
of disturbing other people's rights by using the internet as a tool to do
so. Further, vagueness is not a ground to declare a statute
unconstitutional if the statute is otherwise legislatively competent and
non-arbitrary. He cited a large number of judgments before us both from
this Court and from overseas to buttress his submissions. Freedom of Speech and Expression Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India states as follows: 7. Article 19(2) states: 8. The Preamble of the Constitution of India inter alia speaks of
liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship. It also says
that India is a sovereign democratic republic. It cannot be over emphasized
that when it comes to democracy, liberty of thought and expression is a
cardinal value that is of paramount significance under our constitutional
scheme. 9. Various judgments of this Court have referred to the importance of
freedom of speech and expression both from the point of view of the liberty
of the individual and from the point of view of our democratic form of
government. For example, in the early case of Romesh Thappar v. State of
Madras , [1950] S.C.R. 594 at 602, this Court stated that freedom of speech
lay at the foundation of all democratic organizations. In Sakal Papers (P)
Ltd. & Ors. v. Union of India , [1962] 3 S.C.R. 842 at 866, a Constitution
Bench of this Court said freedom of speech and expression of opinion is of
paramount importance under a democratic constitution which envisages
changes in the composition of legislatures and governments and must be
preserved. In a separate concurring judgment Beg,J. said, in Bennett
Coleman & Co. & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. , [1973] 2 S.C.R. 757 at 829,
that the freedom of speech and of the press is the Ark of the Covenant of
Democracy because public criticism is essential to the working of its
institutions.[2] 10. Equally, in S. Khushboo v. Kanniamal & Anr. , (2010) 5 SCC 600 this
Court stated, in paragraph 45 that the importance of freedom of speech and
expression though not absolute was necessary as we need to tolerate
unpopular views. This right requires the free flow of opinions and ideas
essential to sustain the collective life of the citizenry. While an
informed citizenry is a pre-condition for meaningful governance, the
culture of open dialogue is generally of great societal importance. 11. This last judgment is important in that it refers to the "market
place of ideas" concept that has permeated American Law. This was put in
the felicitous words of Justice Holmes in his famous dissent in Abrams v.
United States, 250 US 616 (1919), thus: 12. Justice Brandeis in his famous concurring judgment in Whitney v.
California, 71 L. Ed. 1095 said: 13. This leads us to a discussion of what is the content of the
expression "freedom of speech and expression". There are three concepts
which are fundamental in understanding the reach of this most basic of
human rights. The first is discussion, the second is advocacy, and the
third is incitement. Mere discussion or even advocacy of a particular
cause howsoever unpopular is at the heart of Article 19(1)(a). It is only
when such discussion or advocacy reaches the level of incitement that Article 19(2) kicks in.[3] It is at this stage that a law may be made
curtailing the speech or expression that leads inexorably to or tends to
cause public disorder or tends to cause or tends to affect the sovereignty
& integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with
foreign States, etc. Why it is important to have these three concepts in
mind is because most of the arguments of both petitioners and respondents
tended to veer around the expression "public order". 14. It is at this point that a word needs to be said about the use of
American judgments in the context of Article 19(1)(a). In virtually every
significant judgment of this Court, reference has been made to judgments
from across the Atlantic. Is it safe to do so? 15. It is significant to notice first the differences between the US
First Amendment and Article 19(1)(a) read with Article 19(2). The first
important difference is the absoluteness of the U.S. first Amendment -
Congress shall make no law which abridges the freedom of speech. Second,
whereas the U.S. First Amendment speaks of freedom of speech and of the
press, without any reference to "expression", Article 19(1)(a) speaks of
freedom of speech and expression without any reference to "the press".
Third, under the US Constitution, speech may be abridged, whereas under our
Constitution, reasonable restrictions may be imposed. Fourth, under our
Constitution such restrictions have to be in the interest of eight
designated subject matters - that is any law seeking to impose a
restriction on the freedom of speech can only pass muster if it is
proximately related to any of the eight subject matters set out in Article
19(2). 16. Insofar as the first apparent difference is concerned, the U.S.
Supreme Court has never given literal effect to the declaration that
Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech. The approach
of the Court which is succinctly stated in one of the early U.S. Supreme
Court Judgments, continues even today. In Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 86
L. Ed. 1031, Justice Murphy who delivered the opinion of the Court put it
thus:- 17. So far as the second apparent difference is concerned, the American
Supreme Court has included "expression" as part of freedom of speech and
this Court has included "the press" as being covered under Article
19(1)(a) , so that, as a matter of judicial interpretation, both the US and
India protect the freedom of speech and expression as well as press
freedom. Insofar as abridgement and reasonable restrictions are concerned,
both the U.S. Supreme Court and this Court have held that a restriction in
order to be reasonable must be narrowly tailored or narrowly interpreted so
as to abridge or restrict only what is absolutely necessary. It is only
when it comes to the eight subject matters that there is a vast difference.
 In the U.S., if there is a compelling necessity to achieve an important
governmental or societal goal, a law abridging freedom of speech may pass
muster. But in India, such law cannot pass muster if it is in the interest
of the general public. Such law has to be covered by one of the eight
subject matters set out under Article 19(2). If it does not, and is
outside the pale of 19(2), Indian courts will strike down such law. 18. Viewed from the above perspective, American judgments have great
persuasive value on the content of freedom of speech and expression and the
tests laid down for its infringement. It is only when it comes to sub-
serving the general public interest that there is the world of a
difference. This is perhaps why in Kameshwar Prasad & Ors. v. The State of
Bihar & Anr. , 1962 Supp. (3) S.C.R. 369, this Court held: 19. But when it comes to understanding the impact and content of freedom
of speech, in Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) Private Limited & Ors. v.
Union of India & Ors. , (1985) 2 SCR 287, Venkataramiah,J. stated: 20. With these prefatory remarks, we will now go to the other aspects of
the challenge made in these writ petitions and argued before us. A. Article 19(1)(a) - Section 66A has been challenged on the ground that it casts the net very
wide - "all information" that is disseminated over the internet is included
within its reach. It will be useful to note that Section 2(v) of
Information Technology Act, 2000 defines information as follows: Two things will be noticed. The first is that the definition is an
inclusive one. Second, the definition does not refer to what the content
of information can be. In fact, it refers only to the medium through which
such information is disseminated. It is clear, therefore, that the
petitioners are correct in saying that the public's right to know is
directly affected by Section 66A . Information of all kinds is roped in -
such information may have scientific, literary or artistic value, it may
refer to current events, it may be obscene or seditious. That such
information may cause annoyance or inconvenience to some is how the offence
is made out. It is clear that the right of the people to know - the market
place of ideas - which the internet provides to persons of all kinds is
what attracts Section 66A . That the information sent has to be annoying,
inconvenient, grossly offensive etc., also shows that no distinction is
made between mere discussion or advocacy of a particular point of view
which may be annoying or inconvenient or grossly offensive to some and
incitement by which such words lead to an imminent causal connection with
public disorder, security of State etc. The petitioners are right in
saying that Section 66A in creating an offence against persons who use the
internet and annoy or cause inconvenience to others very clearly affects
the freedom of speech and expression of the citizenry of India at large in
that such speech or expression is directly curbed by the creation of the
offence contained in Section 66A . In this regard, the observations of Justice Jackson in American
Communications Association v. Douds, 94 L. Ed. 925 are apposite: Article 19(2) One challenge to Section 66A made by the petitioners' counsel is that the
offence created by the said Section has no proximate relation with any of
the eight subject matters contained in Article 19(2). We may incidentally
mention that the State has claimed that the said Section can be supported
under the heads of public order, defamation, incitement to an offence and
decency or morality. 21. Under our constitutional scheme, as stated earlier, it is not open to
the State to curtail freedom of speech to promote the general public
interest. In Sakal Papers (P) Ltd. & Ors. v. Union of India , [1962] 3
S.C.R. 842, this Court said: 22. Before we come to each of these expressions, we must understand what
is meant by the expression "in the interests of". In The Superintendent,
Central Prison, Fatehgarh v. Ram Manohar Lohia , [1960] 2 S.C.R. 821, this
Court laid down: 23. This Court has laid down what "reasonable restrictions" means in
several cases. In Chintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh , [1950]
S.C.R. 759, this Court said: 24. In State of Madras v. V.G. Row , [1952] S.C.R. 597, this Court said: 25. Similarly, in Mohd. Faruk v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. , [1970] 1
S.C.R. 156, this Court said: (at page 161) 26. In Dr. N. B. Khare v. State of Delhi , [1950] S.C.R. 519, a
Constitution Bench also spoke of reasonable restrictions when it comes to
procedure. It said: (at page 524) 27. It was argued by the learned Additional Solicitor General that a
relaxed standard of reasonableness of restriction should apply regard being
had to the fact that the medium of speech being the internet differs from
other mediums on several grounds. To appreciate the width and scope of his
submissions, we are setting out his written submission verbatim: In case of print media or medium of television and films whatever is truly
recorded can only be published or broadcasted I televised I viewed. While
in case of an internet, morphing of images, change of voices and many other
technologically advance methods to create serious potential social disorder
can be applied. By the medium of internet, rumors having a serious potential of creating a
serious social disorder can be spread to trillions of people without any
check which is not possible in case of other mediums. In case of mediums like print media, television and films, it is broadly
not possible to invade privacy of unwilling persons. While in case of an
internet, it is very easy to invade upon the privacy of any individual and
thereby violating his right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. By its very nature, in the mediums like newspaper, magazine, television or
a movie, it is not possible to sexually harass someone, outrage the modesty
of anyone, use unacceptable filthy language and evoke communal frenzy which
would lead to serious social disorder. While in the case of an internet, it
is easily possible to do so by a mere click of a button without any
geographical limitations and almost in all cases while ensuring anonymity
of the offender. By the very nature of the medium, the width and reach of internet is
manifold as against newspaper and films. The said mediums have inbuilt
limitations i.e. a person will have to buy / borrow a newspaper and / or
will have to go to a theater to watch a movie. For television also one
needs at least a room where a television is placed and can only watch those
channels which he has subscribed and that too only at a time where it is
being telecast. While in case of an internet a person abusing the internet,
can commit an offence at any place at the time of his choice and
maintaining his anonymity in almost all cases. (ix) In case of other mediums, it is impossible to maintain anonymity as a
result of which speech ideal opinions films having serious potential of
creating a social disorder never gets generated since its origin is bound
to be known. While in case of an internet mostly its abuse takes place
under the garb of anonymity which can be unveiled only after thorough
investigation. (x) In case of other mediums like newspapers, television or films, the
approach is always institutionalized approach governed by industry specific
ethical norms of self conduct. Each newspaper / magazine / movie production
house / TV Channel will have their own institutionalized policies in house
which would generally obviate any possibility of the medium being abused.
As against that use of internet is solely based upon individualistic
approach of each individual without any check, balance or regulatory
ethical norms for exercising freedom of speech and expression under Article
19[ 1] [ a]. (xi) In the era limited to print media and cinematograph; or even in case
of publication through airwaves, the chances of abuse of freedom of
expression was less due to inherent infrastructural and logistical
constrains. In the case of said mediums, it was almost impossible for an
individual to create and publish an abusive content and make it available
to trillions of people. Whereas, in the present internet age the said
infrastructural and logistical constrains have disappeared as any
individual using even a smart mobile phone or a portable computer device
can create and publish abusive material on its own, without seeking help of
anyone else and make it available to trillions of people by just one
click." 28. As stated, all the above factors may make a distinction between the
print and other media as opposed to the internet and the legislature may
well, therefore, provide for separate offences so far as free speech over
the internet is concerned. There is, therefore, an intelligible
differentia having a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved - that there can be creation of offences which are applied to free speech
over the internet alone as opposed to other mediums of communication.
Thus, an Article 14 challenge has been repelled by us on this ground later
in this judgment. But we do not find anything in the features outlined by
the learned Additional Solicitor General to relax the Court's scrutiny of
the curbing of the content of free speech over the internet. While it may
be possible to narrowly draw a Section creating a new offence, such as Section 69A for instance, relatable only to speech over the internet, yet
the validity of such a law will have to be tested on the touchstone of the
tests already indicated above. 29. In fact, this aspect was considered in Secretary Ministry of
Information & Broadcasting, Government of India v. Cricket Association of
Bengal , (1995) 2 SCC 161 in para 37, where the following question was
posed: This question was answered in para 78 thus: Public Order 30. In Article 19(2) (as it originally stood) this sub-head was
conspicuously absent. Because of its absence, challenges made to an order
made under Section 7 of the Punjab Maintenance of Public Order Act and to
an order made under Section 9 (1)(a) of the Madras Maintenance of Public
Order Act were allowed in two early judgments by this Court. Thus in Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras , [1950] S.C.R. 594, this Court held that
an order made under Section 9(1)(a) of the Madras Maintenance of Public
Order Act (XXIII of 1949) was unconstitutional and void in that it could
not be justified as a measure connected with security of the State. While
dealing with the expression "public order", this Court held that "public
order" is an expression which signifies a state of tranquility which
prevails amongst the members of a political society as a result of the
internal regulations enforced by the Government which they have
established. 31. Similarly, in Brij Bhushan & Anr. v. State of Delhi , [1950] S.C.R.
605, an order made under Section 7 of the East Punjab Public Safety Act,
1949, was held to be unconstitutional and void for the self-same reason. 32. As an aftermath of these judgments, the Constitution First Amendment
added the words "public order" to Article 19(2). 33. In Superintendent, Central Prison, Fatehgarh v. Ram Manohar Lohia ,
[1960] 2 S.C.R. 821, this Court held that public order is synonymous with
public safety and tranquility; it is the absence of disorder involving
breaches of local significance in contradistinction to national upheavals,
such as revolution, civil strife, war, affecting the security of the State. This definition was further refined in Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of
Bihar & Ors. , [1966] 1 S.C.R. 709, where this Court held: 34. In Arun Ghosh v. State of West Bengal , [1970] 3 S.C.R. 288, Ram
Manohar Lohia 's case was referred to with approval in the following terms: 35. This decision lays down the test that has to be formulated in all
these cases. We have to ask ourselves the question: does a particular act
lead to disturbance of the current life of the community or does it merely
affect an individual leaving the tranquility of society undisturbed? Going
by this test, it is clear that Section 66A is intended to punish any person
who uses the internet to disseminate any information that falls within the
sub-clauses of Section 66A . It will be immediately noticed that the
recipient of the written word that is sent by the person who is accused of
the offence is not of any importance so far as this Section is concerned.
(Save and except where under sub-clause (c) the addressee or recipient is
deceived or misled about the origin of a particular message.) It is clear,
therefore, that the information that is disseminated may be to one
individual or several individuals. The Section makes no distinction
between mass dissemination and dissemination to one person. Further, the
Section does not require that such message should have a clear tendency to
disrupt public order. Such message need not have any potential which could
disturb the community at large. The nexus between the message and action
that may be taken based on the message is conspicuously absent - there is
no ingredient in this offence of inciting anybody to do anything which a
reasonable man would then say would have the tendency of being an immediate
threat to public safety or tranquility. On all these counts, it is clear
that the Section has no proximate relationship to public order whatsoever.
The example of a guest at a hotel `annoying' girls is telling - this Court
has held that mere `annoyance' need not cause disturbance of public order.
Under Section 66A , the offence is complete by sending a message for the
purpose of causing annoyance, either `persistently' or otherwise without in
any manner impacting public order. Clear and present danger - tendency to affect. 36. It will be remembered that Justice Holmes in Schenck v. United
States, 63 L. Ed. 470 enunciated the clear and present danger test as
follows: 37. This was further refined in Abrams v. Unites States 250 U.S. 616
(1919), this time in a Holmesian dissent, to be clear and imminent danger.
However, in most of the subsequent judgments of the U.S. Supreme Court, the
test has been understood to mean to be "clear and present danger". The test
of "clear and present danger" has been used by the U.S. Supreme Court in
many varying situations and has been adjusted according to varying fact
situations. It appears to have been repeatedly applied, see- Terminiello
v. City of Chicago 93 L. Ed. 1131 (1949) at page 1134-1135, Brandenburg v.
Ohio 23 L. Ed. 2d 430 (1969) at 434-435 & 436, Virginia v. Black 155 L. Ed.
2d 535 (2003) at page 551, 552 and 553[4]. 38. We have echoes of it in our law as well S. Rangarajan v. P. Jagjivan
& Ors. , (1989) 2 SCC 574 at paragraph 45: 39. This Court has used the expression "tendency" to a particular act.
Thus, in State of Bihar v. Shailabala Devi , [1952] S.C.R. 654, an early
decision of this Court said that an article, in order to be banned must
have a tendency to excite persons to acts of violence (at page 662-663).
The test laid down in the said decision was that the article should be
considered as a whole in a fair free liberal spirit and then it must be
decided what effect it would have on the mind of a reasonable reader. (at
pages 664-665) 40. In Ramji Lal Modi v. The State of U.P. , [1957] S.C.R. 860 at page
867, this court upheld Section 295A of the Indian Penal Code only because
it was read down to mean that aggravated forms of insults to religion must
have a tendency to disrupt public order. Similarly, in Kedar Nath Singh v.
State of Bihar , 1962 Supp. (2) S.C.R. 769, Section 124A of the Indian Penal
Code was upheld by construing it narrowly and stating that the offence
would only be complete if the words complained of have a tendency of
creating public disorder by violence. It was added that merely creating
disaffection or creating feelings of enmity in certain people was not good
enough or else it would violate the fundamental right of free speech under Article 19(1)(a). Again, in Dr. Ramesh Yeshwant Prabhoo v. Prabhakar
Kashinath Kunte & Ors. , 1996 (1) SCC 130, Section 123 (3A) of the
Representation of People Act was upheld only if the enmity or hatred that
was spoken about in the Section would tend to create immediate public
disorder and not otherwise. 41. Viewed at either by the standpoint of the clear and present danger
test or the tendency to create public disorder, Section 66A would not pass
muster as it has no element of any tendency to create public disorder which
ought to be an essential ingredient of the offence which it creates. Defamation 42. Defamation is defined in Section 499 of the Penal Code as follows: 43. It will be noticed that for something to be defamatory, injury to
reputation is a basic ingredient. Section 66A does not concern itself with
injury to reputation. Something may be grossly offensive and may annoy or
be inconvenient to somebody without at all affecting his reputation. It is
clear therefore that the Section is not aimed at defamatory statements at
all. Incitement to an offence: 44. Equally, Section 66A has no proximate connection with incitement to
commit an offence. Firstly, the information disseminated over the
internet need not be information which "incites" anybody at all. Written
words may be sent that may be purely in the realm of "discussion" or
"advocacy" of a "particular point of view". Further, the mere causing of
annoyance, inconvenience, danger etc., or being grossly offensive or having
a menacing character are not offences under the Penal Code at all. They
may be ingredients of certain offences under the Penal Code but are not
offences in themselves. For these reasons, Section 66A has nothing to do
with "incitement to an offence". As Section 66A severely curtails
information that may be sent on the internet based on whether it is grossly
offensive, annoying, inconvenient, etc. and being unrelated to any of the
eight subject matters under Article 19(2) must, therefore, fall foul of Article 19(1)(a) , and not being saved under Article 19(2) , is declared as
unconstitutional. Decency or Morality 45. This Court in Ranjit Udeshi v. State of Maharashtra [1965] 1 S.C.R.
65 took a rather restrictive view of what would pass muster as not being
obscene. The Court followed the test laid down in the old English judgment
in Hicklin's case which was whether the tendency of the matter charged as
obscene is to deprave and corrupt those whose minds are open to such
immoral influences and into whose hands a publication of this sort may
fall. Great strides have been made since this decision in the UK, United
States as well as in our country. Thus, in Director General, Directorate
General of Doordarshan v. Anand Patwardhan , 2006 (8) SCC 433, this Court
noticed the law in the United States and said that a material may be
regarded as obscene if the average person applying contemporary community
standards would find that the subject matter taken as a whole appeals to
the prurient interest and that taken as a whole it otherwise lacks serious
literary artistic, political, educational or scientific value (see Para 31). 46. In a recent judgment of this Court, Aveek Sarkar v. State of West
Bengal , 2014 (4) SCC 257, this Court referred to English, U.S. and Canadian
judgments and moved away from the Hicklin test and applied the contemporary
community standards test. 47. What has been said with regard to public order and incitement to an
offence equally applies here. Section 66A cannot possibly be said to
create an offence which falls within the expression 'decency' or 'morality'
in that what may be grossly offensive or annoying under the Section need
not be obscene at all - in fact the word 'obscene' is conspicuous by its
absence in Section 66A . 48. However, the learned Additional Solicitor General asked us to read
into Section 66A each of the subject matters contained in Article 19(2) in
order to save the constitutionality of the provision. We are afraid that
such an exercise is not possible for the simple reason that when the
legislature intended to do so, it provided for some of the subject matters
contained in Article 19(2) in Section 69A . We would be doing complete
violence to the language of Section 66A if we were to read into it
something that was never intended to be read into it. Further, he argued
that the statute should be made workable, and the following should be read
into Section 66A : Director of Public Prosecutions v. Collins - (2006) 1 WLR 2223 @ para 9 and 21 Connolly v. Director of Public Prosecutions reported in [2008] 1 W.L.R.
276/2007 [1] All ER 1012

House of Lords Select Committee 1st Report of Session 2014-2015 on
Communications titled as "Social Media And Criminal Offences" @ pg 260 of
compilation of judgments Vol I Part B (ii) Information which is directed to incite or can produce imminent
lawless action Brandenburg v. Ohio 395 U.S. 444 (1969); (iii) Information which may constitute credible threats of violence to the
person or damage; (iv) Information which stirs the public to anger, invites violent disputes
brings about condition of violent unrest and disturbances; Terminiello v. Chicago 337 US 1 (1949) (v) Information which advocates or teaches the duty, necessity or
proprietary of violence as a means of accomplishing political, social or
religious reform and/or justifies commissioning of violent acts with an
intent to exemplify glorify such violent means to accomplish political,
social, economical or religious reforms

[Whitney vs. California 274 US 357]; (vi) Information which contains fighting or abusive material; Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U.S. 568 (1942) (vii) Information which promotes hate speech i.e.

Information which propagates hatred towards individual or a groups, on the
basis of race, religion, religion, casteism, ethnicity,

Information which is intended to show the supremacy of one particular
religion/race/caste by making disparaging, abusive and/or highly
inflammatory remarks against religion/race/caste. Information depicting religious deities, holy persons, holy symbols, holy
books which are created to insult or to show contempt or lack of reverence
for such religious deities, holy persons, holy symbols, holy books or
towards something which is considered sacred or inviolable. (viii) Satirical or iconoclastic cartoon and caricature which fails the
test laid down in Hustler Magazine, Inc. v. Falwell 485 U. S. 46 (1988) (ix) Information which glorifies terrorism and use of drugs; (x) Information which infringes right of privacy of the others and includes
acts of cyber bullying, harassment or stalking. (xi) Information which is obscene and has the tendency to arouse feeling or
revealing an overt sexual desire and should be suggestive of deprave mind
and designed to excite sexual passion in persons who are likely to see it. Aveek Sarkar and Anr. vs. State of West Bengal and Ors. (2014) 4 SCC 257. (xii) Context and background test of obscenity. Information which is
posted in such a context or background which has a consequential effect of
outraging the modesty of the pictured individual. Aveek Sarkar and Anr. vs. State of West Bengal and Ors. (2014) 4 SCC 257." 49. What the learned Additional Solicitor General is asking us to do is
not to read down Section 66A - he is asking for a wholesale substitution of
the provision which is obviously not possible. Vagueness 50. Counsel for the petitioners argued that the language used in Section
66A is so vague that neither would an accused person be put on notice as to
what exactly is the offence which has been committed nor would the
authorities administering the Section be clear as to on which side of a
clearly drawn line a particular communication will fall. 51. We were given Collin's dictionary, which defined most of the terms
used in Section 66A , as follows: 52. The U.S. Supreme Court has repeatedly held in a series of judgments
that where no reasonable standards are laid down to define guilt in a
Section which creates an offence, and where no clear guidance is given to
either law abiding citizens or to authorities and courts, a Section which
creates an offence and which is vague must be struck down as being
arbitrary and unreasonable. Thus, in Musser v. Utah, 92 L. Ed. 562, a Utah
statute which outlawed conspiracy to commit acts injurious to public morals
was struck down. 53. In Winters v. People of State of New York, 92 L. Ed. 840, a New York
Penal Law read as follows:- 54. In Burstyn v. Wilson, 96 L. Ed. 1098, sacrilegious writings and
utterances were outlawed. Here again, the U.S. Supreme Court stepped in to
strike down the offending Section stating: 55. In City of Chicago v. Morales et al, 527 U. S. 41 (1999) , a Chicago
Gang Congregation Ordinance prohibited criminal street gang members from
loitering with one another or with other persons in any public place for no
apparent purpose. The Court referred to an earlier judgment in United
States v. Reese 92 U.S. 214 (1875) at 221 in which it was stated that the
Constitution does not permit a legislature to set a net large enough to
catch all possible offenders and leave it to the Court to step in and say
who could be rightfully detained and who should be set at liberty. It was
held that the broad sweep of the Ordinance violated the requirement that a
legislature needs to meet: to establish minimum guidelines to govern law
enforcement. As the impugned Ordinance did not have any such guidelines, a
substantial amount of innocent conduct would also be brought within its
net, leading to its unconstitutionality. 56. It was further held that a penal law is void for vagueness if it
fails to define the criminal offence with sufficient definiteness. Ordinary
people should be able to understand what conduct is prohibited and what is
permitted. Also, those who administer the law must know what offence has
been committed so that arbitrary and discriminatory enforcement of the law
does not take place. 57. Similarly, in Grayned v. City of Rockford, 33 L.Ed. 2d. 222, the
State of Illinois provided in an anti noise ordinance as follows: The law on the subject of vagueness was clearly stated thus: 58. The anti noise ordinance was upheld on facts in that case because it
fixed the time at which noise disrupts school activity - while the school
is in session - and at a fixed place - 'adjacent' to the school. 59. Secondly, there had to be demonstrated a causality between
disturbance that occurs and the noise or diversion. Thirdly, acts have to
be willfully done. It is important to notice that the Supreme Court
specifically held that "undesirables" or their "annoying conduct" may not
be punished. It is only on these limited grounds that the said Ordinance
was considered not to be impermissibly vague. 60. In Reno, Attorney General of the United States, et al. v. American
Civil Liberties Union et al., 521 U.S. 844 (1997), two provisions of the
Communications Decency Act of 1996 which sought to protect minors from
harmful material on the internet were adjudged unconstitutional. This
judgment is a little important for two basic reasons - that it deals with a
penal offence created for persons who use the internet as also for the
reason that the statute which was adjudged unconstitutional uses the
expression "patently offensive" which comes extremely close to the
expression "grossly offensive" used by the impugned Section 66A . Section
223(d), which was adjudged unconstitutional, is set out hereinbelow:- 61. The Supreme Court held that the impugned statute lacked the precision
that the first amendment required when a statute regulates the content of
speech. In order to deny minors access to potentially harmful speech, the
impugned Act effectively suppresses a large amount of speech that adults
have a constitutional right to receive and to address to one another. 62. Such a burden on adult speech is unacceptable if less restrictive
alternatives would be as effective in achieving the legitimate purpose that
the statute was enacted to serve. It was held that the general undefined
term "patently offensive" covers large amounts of non-pornographic
material with serious educational or other value and was both vague and
over broad. It was, thus, held that the impugned statute was not narrowly
tailored and would fall foul of the first amendment. 63. In Federal Communications Commission v. Fox Television Stations, 132
S.Ct. 2307, it was held: Even when speech is not at issue, the void for vagueness doctrine addresses
at least two connected but discrete due process concerns: first, that
regulated parties should know what is required of them so they may act
accordingly; second, precision and guidance are necessary so that those
enforcing the law do not act in an arbitrary or discriminatory way.
See Grayned v. City of Rockford, 408 U. S. 104, 108-109 (1972). When speech
is involved, rigorous adherence to those requirements is necessary to
ensure that ambiguity does not chill protected speech."(at page 2317) 64. Coming to this Court's judgments, in State of Madhya Pradesh v.
Baldeo Prasad , [1961] 1 S.C.R. 970 an inclusive definition of the word
"goonda" was held to be vague and the offence created by Section 4A of the
Goondas Act was, therefore, violative of Article 19(1)(d) and (e) of the
Constitution. It was stated: 65. At one time this Court seemed to suggest that the doctrine of
vagueness was no part of the Constitutional Law of India. That was
dispelled in no uncertain terms in K.A. Abbas v. The Union of India &
Another , [1971] 2 S.C.R. 446: 66. Similarly, in Harakchand Ratanchand Banthia & Ors. v. Union of India
& Ors. , 1969 (2) SCC 166, Section 27 of the Gold Control Act was struck
down on the ground that the conditions imposed by it for the grant of
renewal of licences are uncertain, vague and unintelligible. The Court
held: is nowhere defined in the Act. Similarly Section 27(6)(b) requires the
Administrator to have regard to "the anticipated demand, as estimated by
him, for ornaments in that region." The expression "anticipated demand" is
a vague expression which is not capable of objective assessment and is
bound to lead to a great deal of uncertainty. Similarly the expression
"suitability of the applicant" in Section 27(6)(e) and "public interest" in Section 27(6)(g) do not provide any objective standard or norm or guidance.
For these reasons it must be held that clauses (a),(d),(e) and (g) of Section 27(6) impose unreasonable restrictions on the fundamental right of
the petitioner to carry on business and are constitutionally invalid. It
was also contended that there was no reason why the conditions for renewal
of licence should be as rigorous as the conditions for initial grant of
licence. The requirement of strict conditions for the renewal of licence
renders the entire future of the business of the dealer uncertain and
subjects it to the caprice and arbitrary will of the administrative
authorities. There is justification for this argument and the requirement
of Section 26 of the Act imposing the same conditions for the renewal of
the licence as for the initial grant appears to be unreasonable. In our
opinion clauses (a), (b), (e) and (g) are inextricably bound up with the
other clauses of Section 27(6) and form part of a single scheme. The result
is that clauses (a), (b), (c), (e) and (g) are not severable and the entire Section 27(6) of the Act must be held invalid. Section 27(2)(d) of the Act
states that a valid licence issued by the Administrator "may contain such
conditions, limitations and restrictions as the Administrator may think fit
to impose and different conditions, limitations and restrictions may be
imposed for different classes of dealers". On the face of it, this sub-
section confers such wide and vague power upon the Administrator that it is
difficult to limit its scope. In our opinion Section 27(2)(d) of the Act
must be struck down as an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental right
of the petitioners to carry on business. It appears, however, to us that if Section 27(2)(d) and Section 27(6) of the Act are invalid the licensing
scheme contemplated by the rest of Section 27 of the Act cannot be worked
in practice. It is, therefore, necessary for Parliament to enact fresh
legislation imposing appropriate conditions and restrictions for the grant
and renewal of licences to dealers. In the alternative the Central
Government may make appropriate rules for the same purpose in exercise of
its rule-making power under Section 114 of the Act." 67. In A.K. Roy & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. , [1982] 2 S.C.R. 272, a
part of Section 3 of the National Security Ordinance was read down on the
ground that "acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of
supplies and services essential to the community" is an expression so vague
that it is capable of wanton abuse. The Court held: 68. Similarly, in Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab , (1994) 3 SCC 569 at
para 130-131, it was held: 69. Judged by the standards laid down in the aforesaid judgments, it is
quite clear that the expressions used in 66A are completely open-ended and
undefined. Section 66 in stark contrast to Section 66A states: (b) the word "fraudulently" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 25 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860)." 70. It will be clear that in all computer related offences that are
spoken of by Section 66 , mens rea is an ingredient and the expression
"dishonestly" and "fraudulently" are defined with some degree of
specificity, unlike the expressions used in Section 66A . 71. The provisions contained in Sections 66B up to Section 67B also
provide for various punishments for offences that are clearly made out.
For example, under Section 66B , whoever dishonestly receives or retains any
stolen computer resource or communication device is punished with
imprisonment. Under Section 66C , whoever fraudulently or dishonestly makes
use of any identification feature of another person is liable to punishment
with imprisonment. Under Section 66D , whoever cheats by personating
becomes liable to punishment with imprisonment. Section 66F again is a
narrowly drawn section which inflicts punishment which may extend to
imprisonment for life for persons who threaten the unity, integrity,
security or sovereignty of India. Sections 67 to 67B deal with punishment
for offences for publishing or transmitting obscene material including
depicting children in sexually explicit acts in electronic form. 72. In the Indian Penal Code , a number of the expressions that occur in Section 66A occur in Section 268. 73. It is important to notice the distinction between the Sections 268
and 66A . Whereas, in Section 268 the various expressions used are
ingredients for the offence of a public nuisance, these ingredients now
become offences in themselves when it comes to Section 66A . Further, under
Section 268, the person should be guilty of an act or omission which is
illegal in nature - legal acts are not within its net. A further
ingredient is that injury, danger or annoyance must be to the public in
general. Injury, danger or annoyance are not offences by themselves
howsoever made and to whomsoever made. The expression "annoyance" appears
also in Sections 294 and 510 of the IPC: 510. Misconduct in public by a drunken person.-Whoever, in a state of
intoxication, appears in any public place, or in any place which it is a
trespass in him to enter, and there conducts himself in such a manner as to
cause annoyance to any person, shall be punished with simple imprisonment
for a term which may extend to twenty-four hours, or with fine which may
extend to ten rupees, or with both." 74. If one looks at Section 294, the annoyance that is spoken of is
clearly defined - that is, it has to be caused by obscene utterances or
acts. Equally, under Section 510, the annoyance that is caused to a person
must only be by another person who is in a state of intoxication and who
annoys such person only in a public place or in a place for which it is a
trespass for him to enter. Such narrowly and closely defined contours of
offences made out under the Penal Code are conspicuous by their absence in Section 66A which in stark contrast uses completely open ended, undefined
and vague language. 75. Incidentally, none of the expressions used in Section 66A are
defined. Even "criminal intimidation" is not defined - and the definition
clause of the Information Technology Act , Section 2 does not say that words
and expressions that are defined in the Penal Code will apply to this Act. 76. Quite apart from this, as has been pointed out above, every
expression used is nebulous in meaning. What may be offensive to one may
not be offensive to another. What may cause annoyance or inconvenience to
one may not cause annoyance or inconvenience to another. Even the
expression "persistently" is completely imprecise - suppose a message is
sent thrice, can it be said that it was sent "persistently"? Does a
message have to be sent (say) at least eight times, before it can be said
that such message is "persistently" sent? There is no demarcating line
conveyed by any of these expressions - and that is what renders the Section
unconstitutionally vague. 77. However, the learned Additional Solicitor General argued before us
that expressions that are used in Section 66A may be incapable of any
precise definition but for that reason they are not constitutionally
vulnerable. He cited a large number of judgments in support of this
submission. None of the cited judgments dealt with a Section creating an
offence which is saved despite its being vague and in capable of any
precise definition. In fact, most of the judgments cited before us did not
deal with criminal law at all. The few that did are dealt with
hereinbelow. For instance, Madan Singh v. State of Bihar , (2004) 4 SCC 622
was cited before us. The passage cited from the aforesaid judgment is
contained in para 19 of the judgment. The cited passage is not in the
context of an argument that the word "terrorism" not being separately
defined would, therefore, be struck down on the ground of vagueness. The
cited passage was only in the context of upholding the conviction of the
accused in that case . Similarly, in Zameer Ahmed Latifur Rehman Sheikh v.
State of Maharashtra & Ors. , (2010) 5 SCC 246, the expression "insurgency"
was said to be undefined and would defy a precise definition, yet it could
be understood to mean break down of peace and tranquility as also a grave
disturbance of public order so as to endanger the security of the State and
its sovereignty. This again was said in the context of a challenge on the
ground of legislative competence. The provisions of the Maharashtra
Control of Organised Crime Act were challenged on the ground that they were
outside the expression "public order" contained in Entry 1 of List I of the
7th Schedule of the Constitution of India. This contention was repelled by
saying that the expression "public order" was wide enough to encompass
cases of "insurgency". This case again had nothing to do with a challenge
raised on the ground of vagueness. 78. Similarly, in State of M.P. v. Kedia Leather & Liquor Limited , (2003)
7 SCC 389, paragraph 8 was cited to show that the expression "nuisance"
appearing in Section 133 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was also not
capable of precise definition. This again was said in the context of an
argument that Section 133 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was impliedly
repealed by the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 .
This contention was repelled by saying that the areas of operation of the
two provisions were completely different and they existed side by side
being mutually exclusive. This case again did not contain any argument
that the provision contained in Section 133 was vague and, therefore,
unconstitutional. Similarly, in State of Karnataka v. Appa Balu Ingale ,
1995 Supp. (4) SCC 469, the word "untouchability" was said not to be
capable of precise definition. Here again, there was no constitutional
challenge on the ground of vagueness. 79. In fact, two English judgments cited by the learned Additional
Solicitor General would demonstrate how vague the words used in Section 66A are. In Director of Public Prosecutions v. Collins, (2006) 1 WLR 2223, the
very expression "grossly offensive" is contained in Section 127(1)(1) of
the U.K. Communications Act, 2003. A 61 year old man made a number of
telephone calls over two years to the office of a Member of Parliament. In
these telephone calls and recorded messages Mr. Collins who held strong
views on immigration made a reference to "Wogs", "Pakis", "Black bastards" 80. Similarly in Chambers v. Director of Public Prosecutions, [2013] 1
W.L.R. 1833, the Queen's Bench was faced with the following facts: 81. The Crown Court was satisfied that the message in question was
"menacing" stating that an ordinary person seeing the tweet would be
alarmed and, therefore, such message would be "menacing". The Queen's
Bench Division reversed the Crown Court stating: 82. These two cases illustrate how judicially trained minds would find a
person guilty or not guilty depending upon the Judge's notion of what is
"grossly offensive" or "menacing". In Collins' case, both the
Leicestershire Justices and two Judges of the Queen's Bench would have
acquitted Collins whereas the House of Lords convicted him. Similarly, in
the Chambers case, the Crown Court would have convicted Chambers whereas
the Queen's Bench acquitted him. If judicially trained minds can come to
diametrically opposite conclusions on the same set of facts it is obvious
that expressions such as "grossly offensive" or "menacing" are so vague
that there is no manageable standard by which a person can be said to have
committed an offence or not to have committed an offence. Quite obviously,
a prospective offender of Section 66A and the authorities who are to
enforce Section 66A have absolutely no manageable standard by which to book
a person for an offence under Section 66A . This being the case, having
regard also to the two English precedents cited by the learned Additional
Solicitor General, it is clear that Section 66A is unconstitutionally
vague. Ultimately, applying the tests referred to in Chintaman Rao and V.G. Row's
case, referred to earlier in the judgment, it is clear that Section 66A arbitrarily, excessively and disproportionately invades the right of free
speech and upsets the balance between such right and the reasonable
restrictions that may be imposed on such right. Chilling Effect And Overbreadth 83. Information that may be grossly offensive or which causes annoyance
or inconvenience are undefined terms which take into the net a very large
amount of protected and innocent speech. A person may discuss or even
advocate by means of writing disseminated over the internet information
that may be a view or point of view pertaining to governmental, literary,
scientific or other matters which may be unpalatable to certain sections of
society. It is obvious that an expression of a view on any matter may cause
annoyance, inconvenience or may be grossly offensive to some. A few
examples will suffice. A certain section of a particular community may be
grossly offended or annoyed by communications over the internet by "liberal
views" - such as the emancipation of women or the abolition of the caste
system or whether certain members of a non proselytizing religion should be
allowed to bring persons within their fold who are otherwise outside the
fold. Each one of these things may be grossly offensive, annoying,
inconvenient, insulting or injurious to large sections of particular
communities and would fall within the net cast by Section 66A . In point of
fact, Section 66A is cast so widely that virtually any opinion on any
subject would be covered by it, as any serious opinion dissenting with the
mores of the day would be caught within its net. Such is the reach of the
Section and if it is to withstand the test of constitutionality, the
chilling effect on free speech would be total. 84. Incidentally, some of our judgments have recognized this chilling
effect of free speech. In R. Rajagopal v. State of T.N. , (1994) 6 SCC 632,
this Court held: Accordingly, it was held that the action was not maintainable in law." 85. Also in S. Khushboo v. Kanniammal , (2010) 5 SCC 600, this Court
said: 86. That the content of the right under Article 19(1)(a) remains the same
whatever the means of communication including internet communication is
clearly established by Reno's case ( supra) and by The Secretary, Ministry
of Information & Broadcasting v. Cricket Association of Bengal & Anr. ,
(1995) SCC 2 161 at Para 78 already referred to. It is thus clear that not
only are the expressions used in Section 66A expressions of inexactitude
but they are also over broad and would fall foul of the repeated
injunctions of this Court that restrictions on the freedom of speech must
be couched in the narrowest possible terms. For example, see, Kedar Nath
Singh v. State of Bihar , [1962] Supp. 2 S.C.R. 769 at 808 -809. In point of
fact, judgments of the Constitution Bench of this Court have struck down
sections which are similar in nature. A prime example is the section
struck down in the first Ram Manohar Lohia case, namely, Section 3 of the
U.P. Special Powers Act, where the persons who "instigated" expressly or by
implication any person or class of persons not to pay or to defer payment
of any liability were punishable. This Court specifically held that under
the Section a wide net was cast to catch a variety of acts of instigation
ranging from friendly advice to systematic propaganda. It was held that in
its wide amplitude, the Section takes in the innocent as well as the
guilty, bonafide and malafide advice and whether the person be a legal
adviser, a friend or a well wisher of the person instigated, he cannot
escape the tentacles of the Section. The Court held that it was not
possible to predicate with some kind of precision the different categories
of instigation falling within or without the field of constitutional
prohibitions. It further held that the Section must be declared
unconstitutional as the offence made out would depend upon factors which
are uncertain. 87. In Kameshwar Prasad & Ors. v. The State of Bihar & Anr. , [1962]
Supp. 3 S.C.R. 369, Rule 4-A of the Bihar Government Servants Conduct
Rules, 1956 was challenged. The rule states "No government servant shall
participate in any demonstration or resort to any form of strike in
connection with any matter pertaining to his conditions of service." 88. The aforesaid rule was challenged under Articles 19 (1)(a) and (b) of
the Constitution. The Court followed the law laid down in Ram Manohar
Lohia 's case [1960] 2 S.C.R. 821 and accepted the challenge. It first held
that demonstrations are a form of speech and then held: 89. The Court further went on to hold that remote disturbances of public
order by demonstration would fall outside Article 19(2). The connection
with public order has to be intimate, real and rational and should arise
directly from the demonstration that is sought to be prohibited. Finally,
the Court held: (at page 384) 90. These two Constitution Bench decisions bind us and would apply
directly on Section 66A . We, therefore, hold that the Section is
unconstitutional also on the ground that it takes within its sweep
protected speech and speech that is innocent in nature and is liable
therefore to be used in such a way as to have a chilling effect on free
speech and would, therefore, have to be struck down on the ground of
overbreadth. Possibility of an act being abused is not a ground to test its validity: 91. The learned Additional Solicitor General cited a large number of
judgments on the proposition that the fact that Section 66A is capable of
being abused by the persons who administered it is not a ground to test its
validity if it is otherwise valid. He further assured us that this
Government was committed to free speech and that Section 66A would not be
used to curb free speech, but would be used only when excesses are
perpetrated by persons on the rights of others. In The Collector of
Customs, Madras v. Nathella Sampathu Chetty & Anr. , [1962] 3 S.C.R. 786,
this Court observed: and treating this as a ground for holding the statute invalid Viscount
Simonds observed in Belfast Corporation v. O.D. Commission [ 1960 AC 490 at
pp. 520-521] : The possibility of abuse of a statute otherwise valid does not impart to it
any element of invalidity. The converse must also follow that a statute
which is otherwise invalid as being unreasonable cannot be saved by its
being administered in a reasonable manner. The constitutional validity of
the statute would have to be determined on the basis of its provisions and
on the ambit of its operation as reasonably construed. If so judged it
passes the test of reasonableness, possibility of the powers conferred
being improperly used is no ground for pronouncing the law itself invalid
and similarly if the law properly interpreted and tested in the light of
the requirements set out in Part III of the Constitution does not pass the
test it cannot be pronounced valid merely because it is administered in a
manner which might not conflict with the constitutional requirements."
(at page 825) 92. In this case, it is the converse proposition which would really apply
if the learned Additional Solicitor General's argument is to be accepted.
If Section 66A is otherwise invalid, it cannot be saved by an assurance
from the learned Additional Solicitor General that it will be administered
in a reasonable manner. Governments may come and Governments may go but Section 66A goes on forever. An assurance from the present Government even
if carried out faithfully would not bind any successor Government. It
must, therefore, be held that Section 66A must be judged on its own merits
without any reference to how well it may be administered. Severability: 93. The argument of the learned Additional Solicitor General on this
score is reproduced by us verbatim from one of his written submissions: 94. The submission is vague: the learned Additional Solicitor General
does not indicate which part or parts of Section 66A can possibly be saved.
This Court in Romesh Thappar v. The State of Madras , [1950] S.C.R. 594
repelled a contention of severability when it came to the courts enforcing
the fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) in the following terms: 95. It has been held by us that Section 66A purports to authorize the
imposition of restrictions on the fundamental right contained in Article
19(1)(a) in language wide enough to cover restrictions both within and
without the limits of constitutionally permissible legislative action. We
have held following K.A. Abbas ' case (Supra) that the possibility of Section 66A being applied for purposes not sanctioned by the Constitution
cannot be ruled out. It must, therefore, be held to be wholly
unconstitutional and void. Romesh Thappar 's Case was distinguished in R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla v. The Union of India , [1957] S.C.R. 930 in the
context of a right under Article 19(1)(g) as follows: 96. The present being a case of an Article 19(1)(a) violation, Romesh
Thappar's judgment would apply on all fours. In an Article 19(1)(g) challenge, there is no question of a law being applied for purposes not
sanctioned by the Constitution for the simple reason that the eight subject
matters of Article 19(2) are conspicuous by their absence in Article 19(6) which only speaks of reasonable restrictions in the interests of the
general public. The present is a case where, as has been held above, Section 66A does not fall within any of the subject matters contained in Article 19(2) and the possibility of its being applied for purposes outside
those subject matters is clear. We therefore hold that no part of Section
66A is severable and the provision as a whole must be declared
unconstitutional. Article 14 97. Counsel for the petitioners have argued that Article 14 is also
infringed in that an offence whose ingredients are vague in nature is
arbitrary and unreasonable and would result in arbitrary and discriminatory
application of the criminal law. Further, there is no intelligible
differentia between the medium of print, broadcast, and real live speech as
opposed to speech on the internet and, therefore, new categories of
criminal offences cannot be made on this ground. Similar offences which
are committed on the internet have a three year maximum sentence under Section 66A as opposed to defamation which has a two year maximum sentence.
Also, defamation is a non-cognizable offence whereas under Section 66A the
offence is cognizable. 98. We have already held that Section 66A creates an offence which is
vague and overbroad, and, therefore, unconstitutional under Article
19(1)(a) and not saved by Article 19(2). We have also held that the wider
range of circulation over the internet cannot restrict the content of the
right under Article 19(1)(a) nor can it justify its denial. However, when
we come to discrimination under Article 14 , we are unable to agree with
counsel for the petitioners that there is no intelligible differentia
between the medium of print, broadcast and real live speech as opposed to
speech on the internet. The intelligible differentia is clear - the
internet gives any individual a platform which requires very little or no
payment through which to air his views. The learned Additional Solicitor
General has correctly said that something posted on a site or website
travels like lightning and can reach millions of persons all over the
world. If the petitioners were right, this Article 14 argument would apply
equally to all other offences created by the Information Technology Act which are not the subject matter of challenge in these petitions. We make
it clear that there is an intelligible differentia between speech on the
internet and other mediums of communication for which separate offences can
certainly be created by legislation. We find, therefore, that the
challenge on the ground of Article 14 must fail. Procedural Unreasonableness 99. One other argument must now be considered. According to the
petitioners, Section 66A also suffers from the vice of procedural
unreasonableness. In that, if, for example, criminal defamation is
alleged, the safeguards available under Section 199 Cr.P.C. would not be
available for a like offence committed under Section 66A . Such safeguards
are that no court shall take cognizance of such an offence except upon a
complaint made by some person aggrieved by the offence and that such
complaint will have to be made within six months from the date on which the
offence is alleged to have been committed. Further, safeguards that are to
be found in Sections 95 and 96 of the Cr.P.C. are also absent when it comes
to Section 66A . For example, where any newspaper book or document wherever
printed appears to contain matter which is obscene, hurts the religious
feelings of some community, is seditious in nature, causes enmity or hatred
to a certain section of the public, or is against national integration,
such book, newspaper or document may be seized but under Section 96 any
person having any interest in such newspaper, book or document may within
two months from the date of a publication seizing such documents, books or
newspapers apply to the High court to set aside such declaration. Such
matter is to be heard by a Bench consisting of at least three Judges or in
High Courts which consist of less than three Judges, such special Bench as
may be composed of all the Judges of that High Court. 100. It is clear that Sections 95 and 96 of the Criminal Procedure Code
reveal a certain degree of sensitivity to the fundamental right to free
speech and expression. If matter is to be seized on specific grounds which
are relatable to the subject matters contained in Article 19(2) , it would
be open for persons affected by such seizure to get a declaration from a
High Court consisting of at least three Judges that in fact publication of
the so-called offensive matter does not in fact relate to any of the
specified subjects contained in Article 19(2). Further, Section 196 of the Cr.P.C. states: [(1-A)

No Court shall take cognizance of- (a) any offence punishable under Section 153-B or sub-section (2) or sub-
section (3) of Section 505 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of 1860), or (b) a criminal conspiracy to commit such offence,

except with the previous sanction of the Central Government or of the State
Government or of the District Magistrate.]

(2) No court shall take cognizance of the offence of any criminal
conspiracy punishable under Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (45 of
1860), other than a criminal conspiracy to commit [an offence] punishable
with death, imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of
two years or upwards, unless the State Government or the District
Magistrate has consented in writing to the initiation of the proceedings: 101. Again, for offences in the nature of promoting enmity between
different groups on grounds of religion etc. or offences relatable to
deliberate and malicious acts intending to outrage religious feelings or
statements that create or promote enmity, hatred or ill-will between
classes can only be taken cognizance of by courts with the previous
sanction of the Central Government or the State Government. This
procedural safeguard does not apply even when a similar offence may be
committed over the internet where a person is booked under Section 66A instead of the aforesaid Sections. Having struck down Section 66A on substantive grounds, we need not decide
the procedural unreasonableness aspect of the Section. Section 118 of the Kerala Police Act. 102. Learned counsel for the Petitioner in Writ Petition No. 196 of 2014
assailed sub-section (d) of Section 118 which is set out hereinbelow: shall, on conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years or with fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or
with both." 103. Learned counsel first assailed the Section on the ground of
legislative competence stating that this being a Kerala Act , it would fall
outside Entries1 and 2 of List II and fall within Entry 31 of List I. In
order to appreciate the argument we set out the relevant entries: The Kerala Police Act as a whole would necessarily fall under Entry 2
of List II. In addition, Section 118 would also fall within Entry 1 of
List II in that as its marginal note tells us it deals with penalties for
causing grave violation of public order or danger. 104. It is well settled that a statute cannot be dissected and then
examined as to under what field of legislation each part would separately
fall. In A.S. Krishna v. State of Madras , [1957] S.C.R. 399, the law is
stated thus: 105. It is, therefore, clear that the Kerala Police Act as a whole and
Section 118 as part thereof falls in pith and substance within Entry 2 List
II, notwithstanding any incidental encroachment that it may have made on
any other Entry in List I. Even otherwise, the penalty created for causing
annoyance in an indecent manner in pith and substance would fall within
Entry 1 List III which speaks of criminal law and would thus be within the
competence of the State Legislature in any case. 106. However, what has been said about Section 66A would apply directly to Section 118(d) of the Kerala Police Act, as causing annoyance in an
indecent manner suffers from the same type of vagueness and over breadth,
that led to the invalidity of Section 66A , and for the reasons given for
striking down Section 66A , Section 118(d) also violates Article 19(1)(a) and not being a reasonable restriction on the said right and not being
saved under any of the subject matters contained in Article 19(2) is hereby
declared to be unconstitutional. Section 69A and the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for
Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009. 107. Section 69A of the Information Technology Act has already been set
out in paragraph 2 of the judgment. Under sub-section (2) thereof, the
2009 Rules have been framed. Under Rule 3, the Central Government shall
designate by notification in the official gazette an officer of the Central
Government not below the rank of a Joint Secretary as the Designated
Officer for the purpose of issuing direction for blocking for access by the
public any information referable to Section 69A of the Act. Under Rule 4,
every organization as defined under Rule 2(g), (which refers to the
Government of India, State Governments, Union Territories and agencies of
the Central Government as may be notified in the Official Gazette by the
Central Government)- is to designate one of its officers as the "Nodal
Officer". Under Rule 6, any person may send their complaint to the "Nodal
Officer" of the concerned Organization for blocking, which complaint will
then have to be examined by the concerned Organization regard being had to
the parameters laid down in Section 69A(1) and after being so satisfied,
shall transmit such complaint through its Nodal Officer to the Designated
Officer in a format specified by the Rules. The Designated Officer is not
to entertain any complaint or request for blocking directly from any
person. Under Rule 5, the Designated Officer may on receiving any such
request or complaint from the Nodal Officer of an Organization or from a
competent court, by order direct any intermediary or agency of the
Government to block any information or part thereof for the reasons
specified in 69A(1). Under Rule 7 thereof, the request/complaint shall then
be examined by a Committee of Government Personnel who under Rule 8 are
first to make all reasonable efforts to identify the originator or
intermediary who has hosted the information. If so identified, a notice
shall issue to appear and submit their reply at a specified date and time
which shall not be less than 48 hours from the date and time of receipt of
notice by such person or intermediary. The Committee then examines the
request and is to consider whether the request is covered by 69A(1) and is
then to give a specific recommendation in writing to the Nodal Officer of
the concerned Organization. It is only thereafter that the Designated
Officer is to submit the Committee's recommendation to the Secretary,
Department of Information Technology who is to approve such requests or
complaints. Upon such approval, the Designated Officer shall then direct
any agency of Government or intermediary to block the offending
information. Rule 9 provides for blocking of information in cases of
emergency where delay caused would be fatal in which case the blocking may
take place without any opportunity of hearing. The Designated Officer
shall then, not later than 48 hours of the issue of the interim direction,
bring the request before the Committee referred to earlier, and only on the
recommendation of the Committee, is the Secretary Department of Information
Technology to pass the final order. Under Rule 10, in the case of an order
of a competent court in India, the Designated Officer shall, on receipt of
a certified copy of a court order, submit it to the Secretary, Department
of Information Technology and then initiate action as directed by the
Court. In addition to the above safeguards, under Rule 14 a Review
Committee shall meet at least once in two months and record its findings as
to whether directions issued are in accordance with Section 69A(1) and if
it is of the contrary opinion, the Review Committee may set aside such
directions and issue orders to unblock the said information. Under Rule
16, strict confidentiality shall be maintained regarding all the requests
and complaints received and actions taken thereof. 108. Learned counsel for the petitioners assailed the constitutional
validity of Section 69A , and assailed the validity of the 2009 Rules.
According to learned counsel, there is no pre-decisional hearing afforded
by the Rules particularly to the "originator" of information, which is
defined under Section 2(za) of the Act to mean a person who sends,
generates, stores or transmits any electronic message; or causes any
electronic message to be sent, generated, stored or transmitted to any
other person. Further, procedural safeguards such as which are provided
under Section 95 and 96 of the Code of Criminal Procedure are not available
here. Also, the confidentiality provision was assailed stating that it
affects the fundamental rights of the petitioners. 109. It will be noticed that Section 69A unlike Section 66A is a narrowly
drawn provision with several safeguards. First and foremost, blocking can
only be resorted to where the Central Government is satisfied that it is
necessary so to do. Secondly, such necessity is relatable only to some of
the subjects set out in Article 19(2). Thirdly, reasons have to be
recorded in writing in such blocking order so that they may be assailed in
a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution. 110. The Rules further provide for a hearing before the Committee set up -
which Committee then looks into whether or not it is necessary to block
such information. It is only when the Committee finds that there is such a
necessity that a blocking order is made. It is also clear from an
examination of Rule 8 that it is not merely the intermediary who may be
heard. If the "person" i.e. the originator is identified he is also to be
heard before a blocking order is passed. Above all, it is only after these
procedural safeguards are met that blocking orders are made and in case
there is a certified copy of a court order, only then can such blocking
order also be made. It is only an intermediary who finally fails to comply
with the directions issued who is punishable under sub-section (3) of Section 69A . 111. Merely because certain additional safeguards such as those found in Section 95 and 96 CrPC are not available does not make the Rules
constitutionally infirm. We are of the view that the Rules are not
constitutionally infirm in any manner. Section 79 and the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines) Rules,
2011. 112. Section 79 belongs to Chapter XII of the Act in which intermediaries
are exempt from liability if they fulfill the conditions of the Section. Section 79 states: Explanation.-For the purposes of this section, the expression "third party
information" means any information dealt with by an intermediary in his
capacity as an intermediary.]" 113. Under the 2011 Rules, by Rule 3 an intermediary has not only to
publish the rules and regulations, privacy policy and user agreement for
access or usage of the intermediary's computer resource but he has also to
inform all users of the various matters set out in Rule 3(2). Since Rule
3(2) and 3(4) are important, they are set out hereinbelow:- rule (2) above, shall act within thirty-six hours and where applicable,
work with user or owner of such information to disable such information
that is in contravention of sub-rule (2). Further the intermediary shall
preserve such information and associated records for at least ninety days
for investigation purposes." 114. Learned counsel for the petitioners assailed Rules 3(2) and 3(4) on
two basic grounds. Firstly, the intermediary is called upon to exercise
its own judgment under sub-rule (4) and then disable information that is in
contravention of sub-rule (2), when intermediaries by their very definition
are only persons who offer a neutral platform through which persons may
interact with each other over the internet. Further, no safeguards are
provided as in the 2009 Rules made under Section 69A . Also, for the very
reasons that Section 66A is bad, the petitioners assailed sub-rule (2) of
Rule 3 saying that it is vague and over broad and has no relation with the
subjects specified under Article 19(2). 115. One of the petitioners' counsel also assailed Section 79(3)(b) to the
extent that it makes the intermediary exercise its own judgment upon
receiving actual knowledge that any information is being used to commit
unlawful acts. Further, the expression "unlawful acts" also goes way
beyond the specified subjects delineated in Article 19(2). 116. It must first be appreciated that Section 79 is an exemption
provision. Being an exemption provision, it is closely related to
provisions which provide for offences including Section 69A . We have seen
how under Section 69A blocking can take place only by a reasoned order
after complying with several procedural safeguards including a hearing to
the originator and intermediary. We have also seen how there are only two
ways in which a blocking order can be passed - one by the Designated
Officer after complying with the 2009 Rules and the other by the Designated
Officer when he has to follow an order passed by a competent court. The
intermediary applying its own mind to whether information should or should
not be blocked is noticeably absent in Section 69A read with 2009 Rules. 117. Section 79(3)(b) has to be read down to mean that the intermediary
upon receiving actual knowledge that a court order has been passed asking
it to expeditiously remove or disable access to certain material must then
fail to expeditiously remove or disable access to that material. This is
for the reason that otherwise it would be very difficult for intermediaries
like Google, Facebook etc. to act when millions of requests are made and
the intermediary is then to judge as to which of such requests are
legitimate and which are not. We have been informed that in other
countries worldwide this view has gained acceptance, Argentina being in the
forefront. Also, the Court order and/or the notification by the appropriate
Government or its agency must strictly conform to the subject matters laid
down in Article 19(2). Unlawful acts beyond what is laid down in Article
19(2) obviously cannot form any part of Section 79 . With these two
caveats, we refrain from striking down Section 79(3)(b) . 118. The learned Additional Solicitor General informed us that it is a
common practice worldwide for intermediaries to have user agreements
containing what is stated in Rule 3(2). However, Rule 3(4) needs to be
read down in the same manner as Section 79(3)(b) . The knowledge spoken of
in the said sub-rule must only be through the medium of a court order.
Subject to this, the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines)
Rules, 2011 are valid. 119. In conclusion, we may summarise what has been held by us above: (a)sends any message by telephone which is grossly offensive or of an
indecent, obscene or menacing character ; (b)sends any message by telephone, or any telegram, which he knows to
be false, for the purpose of causing annoyance, inconvenience or needless
anxiety to any other person ; or (c)persistently makes telephone calls without reasonable cause and
for any such purpose as aforesaid,
 he shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding ten
pounds, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one month, or to both. This Section in turn was replaced by Section 49 of the British
Telecommunication Act, 1981 and Section 43 of the British Telecommunication
Act, 1984. In its present form in the UK, it is Section 127 of the
Telecommunication Act, 2003 which is relevant and which is as follows:- sends by means of a public electronic communications network a
message or other matter that is grossly offensive or of an indecent,
obscene or menacing character; or
 cause any such message or matter to be so sent. A person is guilty of an offence if, for the purpose of causing
annoyance, inconvenience or needless anxiety to another, he- sends by means of a public electronic communications network, a
message that he knows to be false,
 causes such a message to be sent; or
 persistently makes use of a public electronic communications network. A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable, on
summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or
to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or to both. Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to anything done in the course
of providing a programme service (within the meaning of the Broadcasting
Act 1990 (c.42)). [4] Incidentally, the Ark of the Covenant is perhaps the single most
important focal point in Judaism. The original ten commandments which the
Lord himself gave to Moses was housed in a wooden chest which was gold
plated and called the Ark of the Covenant and carried by the Jews from
place to place until it found its final repose in the first temple - that
is the temple built by Solomon. [6] A good example of the difference between advocacy and incitement
is Mark Antony's speech in Shakespeare's immortal classic Julius Caesar.
Mark Antony begins cautiously. Brutus is chastised for calling Julius
Caesar ambitious and is repeatedly said to be an "honourable man". He then
shows the crowd Caesar's mantle and describes who struck Caesar where. It
is at this point, after the interjection of two citizens from the crowd,
that Antony says- [8] In its present form the clear and present danger test has been
reformulated to say that: Interestingly, the US Courts have gone on to make a further
refinement. The State may ban what is called a "true threat". See Virginia v. Black (Supra) and Watts v. United States 22 L. Ed.
2d. 664 at 667