Heard Sri.Yeshu Mishra, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioner, Sri.B.Pushpalatha, learned Addl. SPP appearing for

respondent No.1, Smt.Shivani P. Murthy, learned counsel

appearing for respondent Nos.2 and 3 and have perused the

material on record. 2. Learned counsel appearing for the petitioner

submits that the petitioner is similarly placed to that of the

accused in Crl.P.No.6306/2024 C/w Crl.P.No.6295/2024,

disposed on 29.04.2025, wherein this Court has held as

follows: (Emphasis added)

 The relief sought was restraining the defendants, the
 present petitioners from reproducing or copying plaintiff's
 property. Property was the information. Damages was also
 sought on alleged loss of business on account of petitioners
 leaving the Company and starting other Company which
 was the 1st defendant - M/s. PAYHUDDLE Solutions Private
 Limited. The said suit comes to be filed on 28-04-2018.
 During the same time, the Company registers the complaint
 in P.C.R.No.3850 of 2018. If not the entire complaint,
 certain paragraphs are germane to be noticed. They read as
 follows: ".... .... .... 3. That the Accused no. 1 is a private limited company
 engaged inter-alia in the business similar to that of the
 Complainant Company No:1 and is being represented
 through its Directors Mr.Ramiah Sambandam & Mr.Abishek
 Chandrasekar who are responsible and hence liable for the
 day to day affairs/ transactions of the Accused no.1 and
 they are also Accused no.7 & 8 in the present Complaint as
 they are personally liable for the wrongful acts and
 conducts done by the Accused no.1 Company as
 enumerated in the present complaint. Accused no.2 & 3
 are the ex-directors of the Complainant Company No.1
 and are currently employed with the Accused No.1
 Company as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Technical
 Director respectively. Accused no.4 to 6 are the ex-
 employees of the Complainant Company No.1 and they are
 also currently employed with the Accused no.1 company -6- NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 and holding senior management positions there. Accused
 no.9 is an ex-consultant of the Complainant Company no.1
 and is one of the founders of the Accused no.1 and
 currently working with the Accused no.1 as its Marketing
 Head. 4. That it is the case of the Complainants that the Accused
 nos. 2 to 9 in furtherance of a conspiracy and with a
 common malafide intention have committed serious fraud,
 criminal breach of trust, theft, cheating, data theft,
 damage to the computer systems, copyright infringement
 of the Complainant Company No.1 by way of forming an
 association of persons in the form of a corporate entity
 'PayHuddle Solutions Private Limited' i.e. Accused no.1 and
 stealing and misusing the emails, softwares, clients related
 information & dealings details, technological know-how,
 trade secrets and other confidential and non-confidential &
 sensitive and non-sensitive information/ documents of the
 Complainant Company No.1 like prices and exact
 requirements of the clients, source codes, presentations,
 flow charts, algorithms, coding sheets, etc. [hereinafter
 also referred to as the 'Compromised
 Data/Information'] acquired by them or entrusted to
 them in their official capacity for diversion of business/
 clients from the Complainant Company No.1 to the
 Accused no.1 over a period of time starting from January,
 2017 if not early, thereby causing great wrongful loss to
 the Complainant Companies and wrongful gain to
 themselves. Further, the Accused no.1 Company very well
 knowing that the said Compromised Data/ Information is
 of the Complainant Company no.1 is dishonestly using the
 said Compromised Data/ Information for its wrongful
 commercial benefit in the course of its daily business
 transactions. 5. That the Accused no. 2 & 3 being the Directors of the
 Complainant Company No.1 had complete dominion over
 all the resources/properties including the Compromised
 Data/ Information of the Complainant Company No.1.
 Similarly, the Accused no. 4 to 6 being the senior level
 employees of the Complainant Company No.1 and Accused
 no.9 being a consultant were entrusted with the
 compromised Data Information of the Complainant
 Company and whatever other data/ information they
 acquired during the course of their employment with the
 Complainant Company No.1. However, the Accused No.2
 to 6 and 9 while employed at the Complainant Company
 No.1 dishonestly and with malafide intention started
 stealing and misusing all the resources/data/ information
 of the Complainant Company entrusted to them in their -7- NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 official capacity for the creation of a competitive and a rival
 entity i.e. Accused no.1 with the help of Accused no. 7 & 8.
 It is pertinent to mention here that the intention of the
 Accused persons was dishonest and malafide an inkling of
 which the complainant company got in January 2017
 around which time the accused had started misusing the
 resources / data information/premises of the Complainant
 Company for their own personal benefit and their ill motive
 is further established as they finally incorporated the
 Accused no.1 which is just a sham. Accused no.1 is just a
 shield used by the other Accused persons to hide their
 offences and if the deep investigation is being done
 keeping in view the averments of the above complaint it
 would reveal that the Accused No.1 has been incorporated
 specifically for the purpose of diverting the business of the
 Complainants and for illegal acts being carried out by the
 Accused persons and the Accused no.7 and 8 have
 conspired with other Accused persons to commit all the
 offences for the profits and gains on the cost of the
 Complainants. 6. That although the Accused persons in collusion with each
 other had started the fraud and process of diverting the
 business of the Complainant Companies to the Accused
 no.1 over the period of time with every effort not to leave
 any evidence behind, yet, the loss of business projects,
 clients, tenders, resignations from the Accused persons
 and many other employees leaving the Complainant
 Company No.1 and joining the Accused no.1 Company and
 all this happening at the same time seemed out of place
 and the Complainant Companies were constrained to
 enquire and investigate, internally. During its investigation
 starting from 9th May, 2017 i.e. the date when the Accused
 no.2 also resigned, the Complainant Companies discovered
 few shocking facts with evidences which pointed directly
 towards the various offences committed by the Accused
 nos.1 to 9 in furtherance of a conspiracy. Following are the
 few incidents/discoveries which prima facie highlight the
 guilt of the Accused persons and make the Accused liable
 of offences for fraud Criminal breach of trust, cheating,
 theft, data theft, damage to computer systems and the
 data stored therein, wrongful withholding of company
 property and misappropriation of property, copyright
 infringement, tampering with the computers. 7. 'PayHuddle Solutions Private Limited' i.e. Accused no.1 is a
 company incorporated on 16th March, 2017 engaged in the
 same line of business as that of the Complainant Company
 No.1 with one of its Directors being Mr.Ramiah
 Sambandam (Accused no.7) who is the father of the -8- NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 Accused no.2 and second Director being Mr.Abishek
 Chandrasekar (Accused no.8) who is the nephew (sister's
 son) of the Accused no.2 i.e. Mr.Prakash Sambandam. It is
 pertinent to mention here that Mr.Ramiah Sambandam
 (Accused no.7), father of the Accused no.2 is an 81 year
 old man and has no experience whatsoever in the field the
 Accused no.1 is engaged in, in fact he is an agriculturist
 and was doing some other small business but definitely not
 IT related. It is pertinent to mention herein that the
 accused No. 7 has colluded with other Accused persons
 without having any knowledge in IT sector and along with
 the Accused no. 8 tried to mislead the Complainant
 company. The accused No. 7 and 8 have conspired with
 the other Accused persons and in furtherance to their
 common intention and ill motive committed the offences as
 alleged in the subsequent paras of this complaint. This
 shows that the Accused no.1 was formed by the other
 Accused persons with malafide and dishonest intentions
 just to shield their offences when both of its Directors are
 directly related to the Accused no.2 and they were in fact
 made Directors just to deceive others. It is therefore
 necessary under such suspicious circumstances that a
 detail investigation be carried out. .... .... .... 22. Soon after the establishment of the Accused no.1
 Company in March, 2017, all the Accused started
 instigating the employees of the Complainant
 Company to join the Accused no.1 and as a
 consequence as many as 10 more employees gave
 resignation from the Complainant Company and
 eventually joined the Accused no.1 Company which
 again is not normal. All the names and the dates and
 details can be provided if required. 23. That the Accused no.2 & 3 have not only breached
 the fiduciary duty they owe towards the Complainant
 Company No.1 being its Directors but have also
 breached many statutory duties they owe towards
 the Complainant Company under the Companies Act,
 2013 thereby jeopardizing the interests of the
 Complainant Company No.1 to a great extent when
 they were in fact entrusted and obligated to protect
 those interests. 24. That the Complainant Company No.1 has a statutory
 protection for its software and its source code,
 computer programs and other electronic records,
 documents, etc under the Copyright Act 1957 being -9- NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 the owner of the same and by the aforesaid acts/
 conducts of the Accused persons, they have
 infringed the IP Rights of the Complainant Company
 no.1 in the said properties and thus made
 themselves liable under Section 63 of the Copyright
 Act, 1957. 25. That under Section 64 of the Copyright Act 1957 the local
 police having the jurisdiction to investigate can seize all
 the copies of the infringed work or any supporting
 material. Further under the provisions of the Act the local
 police having the jurisdiction can also seize the
 laptops/computer systems or other devices were-in this
 data is stored illegally by the Accused persons. 26.That the Complainant Company's all data base stored
 in its computers, laptops, or in other electronic
 devices relating to any confidential information or
 other relevant information relating to its customers,
 etc are protected under the provisions of the Information Technology Act 2000 (as amended). The
 police officer investigating the above offence can
 confiscate the computer, computer system or
 computer network including floppies, compact disks,
 tape drives or any other accessories wherein the
 illegally downloaded data is stored. 27. That, after analyzing the abovementioned discoveries and
 documents produced by the Complainant Company along
 with this complaint it is clear beyond reasonable doubt that
 the Accused persons acted in collusion with each other
 with ulterior motive and having dishonest malafide
 intention from the very beginning to cheat the
 Complainant as the Complainant Company would not have
 done the acts it had done and would have done the acts it
 had not done if not so deceived by the Accused persons,
 thereby making wrongful gain to themselves and wrongful
 loss to the Complainant. The aforesaid actions/inactions on
 part of the Accused persons clearly amount to cheating
 under section 420, criminal breach of trust under Section
 405 & dishonest misappropriation of property under Section 403 of the Indian Penal Code and Data Theft under Section 66 r/w Section 43 of the Information Technology
 Act. The Accused persons have also made themselves
 liable under Section 452 of the Companies Act, 2013 for
 wrongfully obtaining the aforesaid properties of the
 Complainant Company and wrongfully withholding and
 using it for unlawful purposes and also under Section 447 of the Companies Act for fraud. The Accused are also liable - 10 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 under Section 63 of the Copyright Act for copyright
 infringement. 28. It is submitted that the Complainant filed a police
 complaint before the Cyber Crime Police Station,
 Bengaluru on 23rd November, 2017 vide Reg. No. 2115/17.
 However, the police have not taken any action whatsoever
 with the complaint for reasons unknown and having no
 other alternative, the Complainants are before this Hon'ble
 Court. 29. That the above stated conducts of the Accused
 persons are illegal and unlawful which has resulted
 in a loss of about 977,000 Euros (approx INR
 7,83,29,000 ,000 Rupees Seven Crores Eighty Three
 Lakhs and Twenty Nine Thousand only) to the
 Complainant company thus, it is imperative that an
 enquiry/investigation be conducted against the
 Accused persons and appropriate action be taken
 forthwith against them for fraud, cheating, criminal
 breach of trust, data theft, misappropriation &
 wrongful withholding of the Complainant Company
 property, conspiracy with common intention and
 other offences that they are found guilty of during
 the investigation. 30. That the Accused persons have their office within the
 jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court and the offences have
 also been committed by the Accused persons within the
 jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court, hence this Complaint. WHEREFORE, the Complainant most humbly
 prays that this Hon'ble Court be pleased to take
 cognizance for the offences punishable under sections 405 , 408 , 409 , 415 / 420 , 418 , 379 , 381 , 403 , 120B and 34 of Indian Penal Code, read with Sections 43 , 65 , 66 and 76 of The Information
 Technology Act, 1963, read with Sections 447 , 452 of The Companies Act, 2013, and read with Section
 64 of The Copyright Act, against the accused and
 secure their presence and punish them for having
 committed the above said offences in the interest of
 justice and equity. For Silicomp India Pvt. Ltd. Sd/- COMPLAINANTS
 Sd/- ADVOCATE FOR COMPLAINANTS" The contention now is that the private complaint so filed
 did not accompany with it an affidavit as is necessary in
 law. The gist of the complaint: Therefore, there was no mandatory duty cast upon
 them to file an affidavit along with the private
 complaint. The law, in this regard, as to whether an
 affidavit would be required or not is by now too well
 settled. The requirement of seeking investigation under
 Section 156(3) or taking of cognizance by the learned - 12 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 Magistrate under Section 190(1)(b) of the Cr.P.C., will
 not take away the obligation of the complainants to
 support the complaint by way of an affidavit. 10. The Apex Court in the case of PRIYANKA
 SRIVASTAVA v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH1 has
 held as follows: ".... .... .... 29. At this stage it is seemly to state that power
 under Section 156(3) warrants application of judicial
 mind. A court of law is involved. It is not the police
 taking steps at the stage of Section 154 of the Code. A
 litigant at his own whim cannot invoke the authority of
 the Magistrate. A principled and really grieved citizen
 with clean hands must have free access to invoke the
 said power. It protects the citizens but when pervert
 litigations takes this route to harass their fellow
 citizens, efforts are to be made to scuttle and curb the
 same. 30. In our considered opinion, a stage has
 come in this country where Section 156(3) CrPC
 applications are to be supported by an affidavit
 duly sworn by the applicant who seeks the
 invocation of the jurisdiction of the Magistrate.
 That apart, in an appropriate case, the learned
 Magistrate would be well advised to verify the
 truth and also can verify the veracity of the
 allegations. This affidavit can make the applicant
 more responsible. We are compelled to say so as
 such kind of applications are being filed in a
 routine manner without taking any responsibility
 whatsoever only to harass certain persons. That
 apart, it becomes more disturbing and alarming
 when one tries to pick up people who are passing
 orders under a statutory provision which can be
 challenged under the framework of the said Act or
 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. But
 it cannot be done to take undue advantage in a
 criminal court as if somebody is determined to
 settle the scores. (2015) 6 SCC 287 - 13 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR 31. We have already indicated that there
 has to be prior applications under Sections 154(1)
 and 154(3) while filing a petition under Section
 156(3). Both the aspects should be clearly spelt
 out in the application and necessary documents to
 that effect shall be filed. The warrant for giving a
 direction that an application under Section 156(3)
 be supported by an affidavit is so that the person
 making the application should be conscious and
 also endeavour to see that no false affidavit is
 made. It is because once an affidavit is found to
 be false, he will be liable for prosecution in
 accordance with law. This will deter him to
 casually invoke the authority of the Magistrate
 under Section 156(3). That apart, we have
 already stated that the veracity of the same can
 also be verified by the learned Magistrate, regard
 being had to the nature of allegations of the case.
 We are compelled to say so as a number of cases
 pertaining to fiscal sphere, matrimonial
 dispute/family disputes, commercial offences,
 medical negligence cases, corruption cases and
 the cases where there is abnormal delay/laches in
 initiating criminal prosecution, as are illustrated
 in Lalita Kumari [(2014) 2 SCC 1 : (2014) 1 SCC
 (Cri) 524] are being filed. That apart, the learned
 Magistrate would also be aware of the delay in
 lodging of the FIR." (Emphasis supplied)

 The said elucidation has been reiterated by the Apex
 Court in the case of BABU VENKATESH v. STATE OF
 KARNATAKA2 in the following paragraphs: ".... .... .... 11. It was submitted that, the Magistrate was
 required to apply his mind before passing an order
 under Section 156(3) CrPC. It was further submitted
 that, unless an application under Section 156(3) CrPC
 was supported by an affidavit duly sworn by the
 complainant, the learned Magistrate could not have
 passed an order under the said provision. 20. It could thus be seen that, though this
 Court has cautioned that, power to quash criminal
 proceedings should be exercised very sparingly and
 with circumspection and that too in the rarest of rare
 cases, it has specified certain category of cases
 wherein such power can be exercised for quashing
 proceedings. 21. We find that in the present case, though
 civil suits have been filed with regard to the same
 transactions and though they are contested by
 Respondent 2 by filing written statement, he has
 chosen to file complaint under Section 156(3) CrPC
 after a period of one-and-a-half years from the date
 of filing of written statement with an ulterior motive
 of harassing the appellants. We find that, the present
 case fits in the category of No. 7, as mentioned
 in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal [State of
 Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 31)

 "30. In our considered opinion, a stage has come
 in this country where Section 156(3) CrPC applications are
 to be supported by an affidavit duly sworn by the
 applicant who seeks the invocation of the jurisdiction of
 the Magistrate. That apart, in an appropriate case, the
 learned Magistrate would be well advised to verify the
 truth and also can verify the veracity of the allegations.
 This affidavit can make the applicant more responsible.
 We are compelled to say so as such kind of applications
 are being filed in a routine manner without taking any
 responsibility whatsoever only to harass certain persons.
 That apart, it becomes more disturbing and alarming
 when one tries to pick up people who are passing orders
 under a statutory provision which can be challenged
 under the framework of the said Act or under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. But it cannot be done to take
 undue advantage in a criminal court as if somebody is
 determined to settle the scores. - 15 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR 31. We have already indicated that there has to
 be prior applications under Sections 154(1) and 154(3)
 while filing a petition under Section 156(3). Both the
 aspects should be clearly spelt out in the application and
 necessary documents to that effect shall be filed. The
 warrant for giving a direction that an application under
 Section 156(3) be supported by an affidavit is so that the
 person making the application should be conscious and
 also endeavour to see that no false affidavit is made. It is
 because once an affidavit is found to be false, he will be
 liable for prosecution in accordance with law. This will
 deter him to casually invoke the authority of the
 Magistrate under Section 156(3). That apart, we have
 already stated that the veracity of the same can also be
 verified by the learned Magistrate, regard being had to
 the nature of allegations of the case. We are compelled to
 say so as a number of cases pertaining to fiscal sphere,
 matrimonial dispute/family disputes, commercial
 offences, medical negligence cases, corruption cases and
 the cases where there is abnormal delay/laches in
 initiating criminal prosecution, as are illustrated in Lalita
 Kumari [Lalita Kumari v. Govt. of U.P. , (2014) 2 SCC 1 : 24. This Court has clearly held that, a stage has
 come where applications under Section 156(3) CrPC are to
 be supported by an affidavit duly sworn by the complainant
 who seeks the invocation of the jurisdiction of the
 Magistrate. 25. This Court further held that, in an appropriate
 case, the learned Magistrate would be well advised to verify
 the truth and also verify the veracity of the allegations. The
 Court has noted that, applications under Section
 156(3) CrPC are filed in a routine manner without taking any
 responsibility only to harass certain persons. 26. This Court has further held that, prior to
 the filing of a petition under Section 156(3) CrPC,
 there have to be applications under Sections 154(1) and 154(3) CrPC. This Court emphasises the necessity
 to file an affidavit so that the persons making the
 application should be conscious and not make false
 affidavit. With such a requirement, the persons would
 be deterred from causally invoking authority of the
 Magistrate, under Section 156(3) CrPC. Inasmuch as if
 the affidavit is found to be false, the person would be
 liable for prosecution in accordance with law. - 16 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR 27. In the present case, we find that the
 learned Magistrate while passing the order under Section 156(3) CrPC, has totally failed to consider the
 law laid down by this Court. 28. From the perusal of the complaint it can be
 seen that, the complainant Respondent 2 himself has
 made averments with regard to the filing of the
 original suit. In any case, when the complaint was
 not supported by an affidavit, the Magistrate ought
 not to have entertained the application under Section
 156(3) CrPC. The High Court has also failed to take
 into consideration the legal position as has been
 enunciated by this Court in Priyanka
 Srivastava v. State of U.P. [Priyanka
 Srivastava v. State of U.P., (2015) 6 SCC 287 : (2015)
 3 SCC (Civ) 294 : (2015) 4 SCC (Cri) 153] , and has
 dismissed the petitions by merely observing that
 serious allegations are made in the complaint." (Emphasis supplied)

 The Apex Court, in its later judgment, in the case of RANJIT
 SINGH BATH v. UNION TERRITORY CHANDIGARH3 has
 held as follows: ".... .... .... 5. We have carefully perused the decision of this
 Court in the case of Priyanka Srivastava reported in
 (2015) 6 SCC 287. This Court has noted that there was
 misuse of the provisions of sub Section (3) of Section 156. In paragraphs 30 and 31, this Court held thus: (underlines supplied) 6. Section 154 of the CRPC reads thus: section (1) shall be given forthwith, free of cost, to the
 informant. (3) Any person aggrieved by a refusal on the part of
 an officer in charge of a police station to record the
 information referred to in sub-section (1) may send the
 substance of such information, in writing and by post, to the
 Superintendent of Police concerned who, if satisfied that such
 information discloses the commission of a cognizable offence,
 shall either investigate the case himself or direct an
 investigation to be made by any police officer subordinate to
 him, in the manner provided by this Code, and such officer
 shall have all the powers of an officer in charge of the police
 station in relation to that offence." (Emphasis supplied)

 The Apex Court in RANJIT SINGH BATH 's case holds
 that there should be an averment in the private
 complaint regarding compliance of Section 154(1) and
 (2) of the Cr.P.C ., and an affidavit to that effect should
 be filed. 11. A perusal at the private complaint so
 registered, as quoted hereinabove, would leave none in
 doubt that the rigour as enunciated by the Apex Court in - 19 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 the afore-quoted judgments have been violated or there
 is no compliance with Section 154(1) and (3) of the Cr.P.C ., and no affidavit to that effect is filed. A bald
 narration is made at paragraph 28 of the complaint
 quoted supra that they have sought to register a
 complaint before the Cyber Crime Police Station. No
 document to that effect is produced. It is, therefore, in
 such cases filing of an affidavit is imperative, is what the
 Apex Court observes in the afore-quoted judgments. 12. The next contention is, whether the issue in the lis
 with regard to breach of confidentiality is a civil dispute
 between the parties and the said dispute is dressed with
 a colour of crime. The excerpts of the complaint are
 noticed supra. The complaint is with regard to causing of
 loss by these petitioners. The complainants would take
 two steps in 2018 - one to institute a civil suit and the
 other to set the criminal law into motion. At best the civil
 suit was entertainable and not the criminal law that is
 being set into motion for the reasons more than one. It
 is a business rivalry between the petitioners and the
 complainants/Company and the rivalry emerging on the
 score that the petitioners have started their own
 Company which was the 1st defendant in the suit and
 thereby taken away all the customers of the
 complainants/Company which resulted in loss. Therefore,
 these factors at best could be the ingredients of a civil
 Suit seeking damages or orders of restraint against the
 petitioners. The Company has acted correctly, in the
 considered view of this Court, by filing a civil suit. But,
 the Company has also chosen to set the criminal law into
 motion. The two cannot be considered to go hand in
 hand in the peculiar facts of the case. 13. While, there may be plethora of cases where
 mere filing of a civil suit would not mean that setting of
 criminal law into motion should be obliterated; it would
 depend on the facts of each case and to be considered
 on a case to case basis. In a given case, if the reading of
 the complaint clearly indicates that a dispute which is
 purely civil in nature is given a cloak of crime, the Courts
 would not hesitate to step in and obliterate the same.
 The cognizance for the afore-quoted offences are taken.
 They range between Sections 406 to 120B of the IPC. - 20 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 Therefore, the offence is one of criminal breach of trust
 and cheating. Both the offences cannot be allowed in the
 case at hand. The criminal justice system should not be
 put into use for the purpose of recovery of money, unless
 the facts are glaring and make out a prima facie offence
 under the criminal law. It therefore, becomes germane
 to notice the law laid down by the Apex Court in
 entertaining a criminal case for recovery of money or
 business rivalry. The offences alleged are the ones
 punishable under Sections 409 and 420 of the IPC. Section 420 of the IPC reads as follows: Section 420 of the IPC has its ingredients in Section 415 of the IPC to be met. Section 415 of the IPC reads as
 follows: Explanation.--A dishonest concealment of facts
 is a deception within the meaning of this section." (Emphasis supplied) - 21 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR Section 415 of the IPC punishes a person who
 dishonestly, right from the inception, lures the victim
 into a transaction and misappropriates the money. 14. In the case at hand, there is no question of
 luring each other. In identical circumstances, the Apex
 Court in the case of VIJAY KUMAR GHAI v. STATE OF
 WEST BENGAL4 has held as follows: The essential ingredients of the offence of criminal
 breach of trust are: 28. "Entrustment" of property under Section
 405 of the Penal Code, 1860 is pivotal to constitute
 an offence under this. The words used are, "in any
 manner entrusted with property". So, it extends to
 entrustments of all kinds whether to clerks,
 servants, business partners or other persons,
 provided they are holding a position of "trust". A
 person who dishonestly misappropriates property
 entrusted to them contrary to the terms of an
 obligation imposed is liable for a criminal breach of
 trust and is punished under Section 406 of the Penal
 Code. (2022) 7 SCC 124 - 22 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR 29. The definition in the section does not
 restrict the property to movables or immovables
 alone. This Court in R.K. Dalmia v. Delhi Admn. [R.K.
 Dalmia v. Delhi Admn., (1963) 1 SCR 253 : AIR 1962
 SC 1821] held that the word "property" is used in
 the Code in a much wider sense than the expression
 "movable property". There is no good reason to
 restrict the meaning of the word "property" to
 movable property only when it is used without any
 qualification in Section 405. 30. In Sudhir Shantilal Mehta v. CBI [Sudhir
 Shantilal Mehta v. CBI, (2009) 8 SCC 1: (2009) 3 SCC
 (Cri) 646] it was observed that the act of criminal breach
 of trust would, inter alia mean using or disposing of the
 property by a person who is entrusted with or has
 otherwise dominion thereover. Such an act must not only
 be done dishonestly but also in violation of any direction of
 law or any contract express or implied relating to carrying
 out the trust. 31. Section 415 IPC defines "cheating" which reads
 as under: The essential ingredients of the offence of
 cheating are: - 23 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR 32. A fraudulent or dishonest inducement is an
 essential ingredient of the offence. A person who
 dishonestly induces another person to deliver any
 property is liable for the offence of cheating. 33. Section 420 IPC defines "cheating and
 dishonestly inducing delivery of property" which reads
 as under: 34. Section 420 IPC is a serious form of
 cheating that includes inducement (to lead or
 move someone to happen) in terms of delivery of
 property as well as valuable securities. This
 section is also applicable to matters where the
 destruction of the property is caused by the way
 of cheating or inducement. Punishment for
 cheating is provided under this section which
 may extend to 7 years and also makes the person
 liable to fine. 35. To establish the offence of cheating in
 inducing the delivery of property, the following
 ingredients need to be proved: 36. As observed and held by this Court in R.K.
 Vijayasarathy v. SudhaSeetharam [R.K. Vijayasarathy
 v. Sudha Seetharam, (2019) 16 SCC 739 : (2020) 2 - 24 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 SCC (Cri) 454] , the ingredients to constitute an
 offence under Section 420 are as follows: 37. The following observation made by this
 Court in Uma Shankar Gopalika v. State of Bihar [Uma
 Shankar Gopalika v. State of Bihar, (2005) 10 SCC 336
 : (2006) 2 SCC (Cri) 49] with almost similar facts and
 circumstances may be relevant to note at this stage : NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 investigation to continue would amount to an abuse
 of the process of court and to prevent the same it
 was just and expedient for the High Court to quash
 the same by exercising the powers under Section
 482CrPC which it has erroneously refused." 38. There can be no doubt that a mere
 breach of contract is not in itself a criminal
 offence and gives rise to the civil liability of
 damages. However, as held by this Court
 in Hridaya Ranjan Prasad Verma v. State of
 Bihar [Hridaya Ranjan Prasad Verma v. State of
 Bihar, (2000) 4 SCC 168 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 786] ,
 the distinction between mere breach of contract
 and cheating, which is criminal offence, is a fine
 one. While breach of contract cannot give rise to
 criminal prosecution for cheating, fraudulent or
 dishonest intention is the basis of the offence of
 cheating. In the case at hand, complaint filed by
 Respondent 2 does not disclose dishonest or
 fraudulent intention of the appellants." (Emphasis supplied)

 The Apex Court, later, in the case of LALIT
 CHATURVEDI v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH5 has
 held as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

Again, the Apex Court in the case of NARESH KUMAR v. STATE OF
KARNATAKA6 has held as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

 The Apex Court, in the afore-quoted judgments, clearly
 holds that prosecution should not be permitted on
 allegations of breach of contract for the purpose of
 recovery of money. 15. In the light of the afore-quoted judgments, the
 registration of crime is rendered unsustainable. While it
 is correct that in a given case, on a given set of facts,
 both civil and criminal laws could be set into motion as
 there would be common ingredients, which has a flavour
 of civil law and which has a rigour of criminal law. The
 issue now would be, whether this Court in exercise of its
 jurisdiction can entertain the petition under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C., and obliterate the crime. This again is no
 longer res integra. The Apex Court holds that in a
 petition under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C., this Court is
 permitted to exercise its jurisdiction by reading the
 complaint between the lines, as abuse of the process of 6 2024 SCC OnLine SC 268 - 27 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 law has become rampant. The Apex Court in the case of MAHMOOD ALI v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH7 has
 held as follows: ".... .... .... 13. At this stage, we would like to observe
 something important. Whenever an accused comes
 before the Court invoking either the inherent powers
 under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure ( CrPC ) or extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution to get the FIR or the
 criminal proceedings quashed essentially on the
 ground that such proceedings are manifestly frivolous
 or vexatious or instituted with the ulterior motive for
 wreaking vengeance, then in such circumstances the
 Court owes a duty to look into the FIR with care and a
 little more closely. We say so because once the
 complainant decides to proceed against the accused
 with an ulterior motive for wreaking personal
 vengeance, etc., then he would ensure that the
 FIR/complaint is very well drafted with all the
 necessary pleadings. The complainant would ensure
 that the averments made in the FIR/complaint are
 such that they disclose the necessary ingredients to
 constitute the alleged offence. Therefore, it will not be
 just enough for the Court to look into the averments
 made in the FIR/complaint alone for the purpose of
 ascertaining whether the necessary ingredients to
 constitute the alleged offence are disclosed or not. In
 frivolous or vexatious proceedings, the Court owes a
 duty to look into many other attending circumstances
 emerging from the record of the case over and above
 the averments and, if need be, with due care and
 circumspection try to read in between the lines. The
 Court while exercising its jurisdiction under Section 482 of the CrPC or Article 226 of
 the Constitution need not restrict itself only to the
 stage of a case but is empowered to take into account
 the overall circumstances leading to the
 initiation/registration of the case as well as the
 materials collected in the course of investigation. Take
 for instance the case on hand. Multiple FIRs have been
 registered over a period of time. It is in the
 background of such circumstances the registration of
 multiple FIRs assumes importance, thereby attracting
 the issue of wreaking vengeance out of private or
 personal grudge as alleged. 14. In State of Andhra Pradesh v. Golconda Linga
 Swamy , (2004) 6 SCC 522, a two-Judge Bench of this Court
 elaborated on the types of materials the High Court can
 assess to quash an FIR. The Court drew a fine distinction 7 2023 SCC OnLine SC 950 - 28 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 between consideration of materials that were tendered as
 evidence and appreciation of such evidence. Only such
 material that manifestly fails to prove the accusation in the
 FIR can be considered for quashing an FIR. The Court held:-- 7. In dealing with the last category, it is
 important to bear in mind the distinction between a
 case where there is no legal evidence or where there
 is evidence which is clearly inconsistent with the
 accusations made, and a case where there is legal
 evidence which, on appreciation, may or may not
 support the accusations. When exercising jurisdiction
 under Section 482 of the Code, the High Court would
 not ordinarily embark upon an enquiry whether the
 evidence in question is reliable or not or whether on a
 reasonable appreciation of it accusation would not be
 sustained. That is the function of the trial Judge.
 Judicial process, no doubt should not be an instrument of
 oppression, or, needless harassment. Court should be
 circumspect and judicious in exercising discretion and
 should take all relevant facts and circumstances into
 consideration before issuing process, lest it would be an
 instrument in the hands of a private complainant to unleash
 vendetta to harass any person needlessly. At the same time
 the section is not an instrument handed over to an accused
 to short-circuit a prosecution and bring about its sudden
 death....." - 29 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 (Emphasis supplied) 15. In the result, this appeal succeeds and is hereby
 allowed. The impugned order passed by the High Court of
 Judicature at Allahabad is hereby set aside. The criminal
 proceedings arising from FIR No. 127 of 2022 dated
 04.06.2022 registered at Police Station Mirzapur,
 Saharanpur, State of U.P. are hereby quashed." (Emphasis supplied)

 This Court in the case of PATEL ENGINEERING
 LIMITED VS. STATE8 , following the judgments of the
 Apex Court, has held as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

 In the light of the facts obtaining in the case at hand as
 narrated hereinabove and the judgments rendered by 8 Criminal Petition No.6513 of 2024, disposed on 06th August, 2024 - 30 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR

 the Apex Court quoted supra, if further proceedings are
 permitted to continue against the petitioners, it would
 undoubtedly become an abuse of the process of law and
 result in miscarriage of justice. 16. For the aforesaid reasons, the following: 3. However, learned counsel appearing for the

respondents would dispute the position and contend that the

proceedings must not be quashed following the said order. In

the same breath, submits that the said order has become final. 4. In that light, I deem it appropriate to give the

benefit of the order so passed to the co-accused in the said

crime. - 31 - NC: 2026:KHC:13945 CRL.P No. 16837 of 2025 HC-KAR 5. For the aforesaid reasons, the following: SD/- (M.NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE

CBC
List No.: 2 Sl No.: 68