On 22nd October, 2023 (yesterday), I received a call from a person claiming to be Mr. Ashish Kumar Pahari, that he is looking out for rental at our flat in Hyderabad. His mobile number is[protected]. He claimed that he is from Army and plan to shift to Hyderabad on 30th October. He asked me to share some photos of the flat, so that he could show it to his family, get acceptance from them and would inform. Accordingly I shared the photos. Today on 23rd October, morning at close to 8 am, he messaged on whaatsapp that they liked the house and would liked to proceed further. He asked me about payment. I said that that it is one month deposit and one month rental. He said that he would pay Rs. 45, 000 towards two months deposit and one month rental. He said that after he would go to his department, get in touch with the concerned department and ensure that payment is made. As is usually the process, I thought I would be transferred an amount of Rs. 45, 000 on being provided the bank account details. But I was asked to enter details of his Bank account in bank information, which was a branch of HDFC in Delhi. For reasons unknown I was asked to writer my name in bank account details in google pay, where it should have been his. I was asked to transfer Rs. 5 to the account. Once it got transferred and account confirmed then I was told to transfer Rs. 45, 000 to the said account. I was suspicious and said how come I need to transfer when actually I should be getting. I was told they have process in army. I transferred the same. About Rs. 45, 000 got deducted from my ICICI bank account. I said it had been deducted. I was told that I should have entered Rs. 44, 995 as Rs. 5 was already transferred. And hence I should transfer. Believing that the person is genuine on being asked, I transferred 44, 995 to the bank account again through the google pay. Totally 90, 000 got deducted. I was told that this has happened as I initially paid Rs. 45, 000 instead of Rs. 49, 995 transaction after Rs. 5 transaction. Again I was shared a bank account number and account holder name in HDFC bank. I was told to transfer Rs. 10 to his bank account. I did. Rs. 10 credit was found on my bank account. I was told now to transfer Rs. 1, 80, 000 as he said that 90, 000 is also stuck at his end. I started getting irritated. Still believing him to be an army officer. I did. At this point of time, ICICI security check did not allow this transaction. I said it is not being allowed. Then I was given account number with a slightly modified name. Initially I was asked to transfer Rs. 90, 000 and then 45, 000. I was told to be online. As I was travelling, there were ups and downs on net connectivity. But I grew suspicious on being asked to transfer from my account again and again. I cut the whaatsapp call and checked on internet. I found that similar frauds have happened. I decided not to entertain the call of this person and was sufficiently convinced it was a fraud. He kept calling me. I only messaged him on whaatsapp to transfer back my amount of Rs. 90, 000. The Aadhaar number stated by the person is[protected]. Was this information helpful? No (2) Yes (80)