My name is akshay. I am raising a complaint agaist quikr india pvt ltd I applied from quikr job for the bank job for the post of cashier in axis bank. On september 1, 2018 a person call me and said you are shortlisted and ask for registration fee rs. 750 and passport size photos and id proof. I paid them. They said there will be 2 interview, first one is telephonic and 2nd is face to face, telephonic interview is done and give a reference id deka. Akshay9797gab, after that they asked amount of rs 3550 for "application for enrollment". I paid this amount also, next they asked rs 5500 for opening account on selected bank, they give offer of employmment letter and confirmation letter. Later in 18 sept. They give a training letter mentioning a date of training 27 sept. And place - guwahati assam, in 19 sept. A anonymous call come ask for the training fees including hotel reservation which is rs 12500, i paid because i thought it is for training purpose. In 26 sept. Again a call come from insurance department of selected bank for insurance as they said it is requirement for job. They ask for rs. 25000 one time insurance payment. I paid this amount also after that they forward me a another training letter with new date 09, oct, 2018, but not mentioning the training address, i ask them for address and they give a address of hotel at guwahati, assam one day before training date. 9 oct i reached to the hotel for training and ask whether i booked in this hotel or not, hotel receptionist said their were no any reservation. I called the quikr backened team immediately and said about this, but they don't give a better response and till now they dont even response my whatsapp message and my call, i think they fooled me, and took my money. Where i will get my money back. Please help me. *quikr person name and no. - company hr mr. Aditya singh no. [protected] - quiker backened team -[protected], whatsapp [protected] - priya life insurance deptt [protected] - raghav tiwari - quikr placement manager *other detail is attached with this complaint (Bank account where i paid all these amount) State bank of india Name - raghav tiwari A/c no -[protected] Ifsc code - sbin0012984