(BY SRI B.N.JAGADEESHA, ADDL. SPP FOR R1)

 THIS CRIMINAL PETITION IS FILED UNDER SECTION 482 OF
CR.P.C., AND 528 OF BHARATIYA NAGARIK SURAKSHA SANHITA
PRAYING TO A. QUASH THE FIR REGISTERED IN CRIME
NO.153/2017 ON THE FILE OF THE HENNUR POLICE STATION,
BENGALURU FOR THE OFFENCES P/U/S/ 420 OF IPC AS AN ABUSE
OF PROCESS OF LAW AND IT IS WITHOUT JURISDICTION. THIS CRIMINAL PETITION HAVING BEEN HEARD AND
RESERVED FOR ORDERS ON 08.11.2024, COMING ON FOR
PRONOUNCEMENT THIS DAY, THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING:- 2. Heard Sri. Hashmath Pasha, learned senior counsel

appearing for the petitioners and Sri B. N. Jagadeesha, learned

Additional State Public Prosecutor appearing for respondent No.1. 3. Facts, in brief, germane are as follows:- 4. The allegations sprang during the period from 01-12-2016

to 21-04-2017 to an extent of 104 orders with C-return option. Those items which were defective when the customers receive, they

would initiate C-return and the items were collected at different

address and refund was credited to a different person. This resulted

in huge loss to Amazon in a sum of ₹69,91,940/-. The gist of the

complaint is as narrated hereinabove. The Police after investigation

filed a charge sheet against the two petitioners for offences

punishable under Section 420 read with 34 of the IPC . Filing of the

charge sheet and taking of cognizance by the concerned Court has

driven these petitioners to this Court in the subject petition. 5. The learned senior counsel Sri. Hashmath Pasha

representing the petitioners would vehemently contend that the

crime is erroneously registered. These are online transactions. Therefore, Section 66D of the Information Technology Act, 2000

('the Act' for short) is what had to be laid against these petitioners

and not Section 420 of the IPC. He would further elaborate this

contention by submitting that if Section 66D of the Act had to be

invoked which is a non-cognizable offence, permission of the 6 learned Magistrate would be required and, therefore, it has vitiated

the entire proceedings. He would take this Court through the

documents appended to the petition, seeking to demonstrate that

the delivery address, billing address and shifting address are all

noted in the transaction. When C-return has to be processed, it

cannot be picked up from any other address nor delivered to any

other address. The refund will be processed and paid to the

account from which the transaction has taken place. It is his

submission that there cannot be a fraud in such process at all. He

would further contend that, at best even if this Court were to

consider that it is a matter of trial, it would be against accused

No.1, and accused No.2 has not done anything to be tried. 6. Per contra, the learned Additional State Public Prosecutor

Sri B.N. Jagadeesha would vehemently refute the submissions to

contend that every interesting modus operandi is adopted by these

petitioners. Since it is an online transaction it can be operated from

anywhere. He would succinctly explain the modus. It is his

submission that accused No.1 places an order to be delivered to

accused No.2 and one lady in eBay, relative of accused No.1 7 processes the order. The moment it is delivered, accused No.2

initiates C-return. While C-return is initiated, the product in the box

is changed. C-return is taken back which is routed through eBay. Therefore, what these petitioners would gain is that they have the

original product with them and money of the product also with

them as refund is received. This went on for a long time and

Amazon noticed it after 104 transactions. He would submit if this

cannot be a matter of trial, what else can be is his submission. He

seeks dismissal of the petition. 7. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and have perused the

material on record. 8. The afore-narrated facts are a matter of record. The issue

of on-line transaction is what is projected in the case at hand. The

transaction can be graphically portrayed as follows: iv. Further it may be noted that while all 104 products were
 scheduled to be delivered at different addresses, all C
 return pick ups were scheduled from three addresses
 only. The three addresses used by the perpetrator are
 listed at exhibit-1. The contact numbers listed by the
 perpetrator for scheduling C return are also listed at
 Refer Exhibit-2 (List of details). v. As soon as the Amazon associate picked up the
 product, Amazon processed her refund for each
 picked up return. Upon receiving the product at
 the Amazon center, Amazon found a low cost and
 different product each time. Therefore, Amazon
 started investigating the issue internally - Refer
 Exhibit-3 (Process of Missing Shipments at
 Warehouse - Missing swictheroo). vi. After we became suspicious about her unusual
 purchases and return pattern, we started checking the
 product being returned by her in her presence. On two
 occasions when we checked the product being returned
 in her presence and found that the product did not
 match the original purchased product, she immediately
 cancelled the return. However, she placed another
 return request for the same product against the same
 order id but scheduled a C return pick up from a 11 different address and returned wrong low cost product
 and defrauded Amazon again - Refer Exhibit-4
 (Statement of Amazon Associates). vii. When Amazon spoke to some of the original recipients
 (refer ii above) of the products using the contact
 number given at the time of purchase, they confirmed
 that the original product was retained by them and not
 returned. On further discussion, we were told that they
 had placed orders on ebay.com for purchase of products
 through one eBay seller who functions under the name
 of 'rajarshi96' and from some other sellers. One of the
 recipients has shared the seller and purchase details
 from eBay with us. (Refer Exhibit-5 list of customers
 been contacted). viii. It may be noted that eBay seller Rajarshi96 is an active
 seller on eBay and is engaged in selling Nikon Cameras,
 high end Music Systems and televisions - Exhibit 6
 eBay Seller detail. ix. Post analyzing the IP Details for all the orders, following
 observations were noticed: For around 48% of orders it
 is suspected that the IP address used on the orders are
 proxy as these are from different international locations.
 Remaining 52% of orders the IP matches to West
 Bengal under an internet service provider by name The
 Creative Eye Software Solution. G. T. Road, Pandua,
 Hooghly, West Bengal, India - 9475045384. Refer
 Exhibit-7. x. It is pertinent to mention here that refunds were made
 to A/Cs of Federal Bank (90 refunds), Axis Bank (four
 refunds), ICICI (six refunds) and Yes Bank (three
 refunds). Refer Exhibit-8. xi. We suspect that Deepanwita Ghosh operates the
 eBay seller account of Rajarshi96. We believe that
 after receiving customer orders on eBay through
 Rajarshi96, Deepanwita places a parallel order on
 Amazon India website and directs Amazon to ship
 the product to her eBay customer. After the eBay
 customer receives the product, she initiates a C 12 return to return a random and incorrect product in
 order to secure return of monies originally paid to
 Amazon. 3. As of now we are aware of 104 such C returns which
 have in aggregate led to a monetary loss of
 ₹69,91,940/- (Rupees sixty-nine lakhs ninety-one
 thousand nine hundred forty only) to Amazon. A
 detailed list of orders placed, shipments delivered,
 return orders and refunds processed is provided at
 Exhibt-3; 4. In view of this fraud and cheating by Ms. Deepanwita Ghosh,
 you are requested to investigate into this case, apprehend
 the culprit and help render justice. Please treat this as a first information report from Amazon and
kindly provide us the FIR number assigned in the matter. For Amazon Seller Services Limited

Sd/- Signature. Dated: April 21,2017
Enclosed - 1.Exhibit 1 - List of Invoices Delivered to Customers. 2.Exhibit 2 - List of Addresses Customer return pick up versus
 Delivery address. 3.Exhibit 3 - List of shipments found Miss-match while
 processing at Warehouse. 4.Exhibit 4 - Statements of Amazon Associates. 5.Exhibit 5 - Details of contacted customers who ordered the
 shipments. 6.Exhibit 6 - EBay registered seller details 7.Exhibit 7 - IP details of orders. 8.Exhibit 8 - list of payment Ref IDs generated on Refunds." (Emphasis added) 13 The complaint is in minute detail. The Amazon had discovered that

accused No.2, Amazon customer indulges in purchase of high value

items using her account and after the product is delivered within 24

hours she raised a return request. The return was scheduled from

different addresses. The product delivery address was different

from C-return picked up address. Amazon takes back the product

on C-return and refund is processed for each of the product. But,

Amazon in the returned box has found a low-cost product on such

return. The Police, after investigation, file a charge sheet. The

summary of the charge sheet as obtaining in column No.7 reads as

follows: ೆ

 (Emphasis added)

The aforesaid is the modus operandi. The learned senior counsel

would submit that this cannot attract Section 420 of the IPC as

ingredients of Section 415 are not met and it ought to be an offence

under Section 66D of the Act and not Section 420 of the IPC. 9. Let me first demolish the outlandish submissions of the

learned senior counsel, taking recourse to Section 66D of the Act. It

is his submission that Section 66D ought to have been invoked in

2017 and not Section 420 of the IPC and if Section 66D was to be

invoked, it was a non-cognizable offence. If it was a non-cognizable

offence, permission of the learned Magistrate was required under

the Act. In that case, only a particular rank officer of Police should

investigate the matter and investigation should be by cyber crime

Police. This submission cannot but be said to be preposterous, in

the least. They are all fictional, as there is no crime registered 15 under Section 66D . If there is no charge laid under Section 66D ,

there is no warrant to even consider these submissions. 10. The next submission is with regard to Section 420 of the

IPC. Section 420 of the IPC has its ingredients in Section 415 of the

IPC. They read as follows: Explanation.--A dishonest concealment of facts is a
 deception within the meaning of this section. ... ... ... 420. Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of
 property.--Whoever cheats and thereby dishonestly induces
 the person deceived to deliver any property to any person, or to
 make, alter or destroy the whole or any part of a valuable
 security, or anything which is signed or sealed, and which is
 capable of being converted into a valuable security, shall be
 punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
 which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to
 fine." Section 415 mandates that the accused right from the inception

should have a dishonest intention to cheat and in furtherance of

such cheating should lure any person to part with his property. The 16 submission that it would not get attracted is unacceptable. Section

415 is unequivocal of intention to induce a person so deceived to

deliver any property with a dishonest intention from the inception. If the facts are pitted to the ingredients of Section 415, what would

unmistakably emerge is that, the property of Amazon is with a

dishonest intention booked and secured, again with a dishonest

intention, returned and refund is sought on a changed product. Two

properties are retained again with dishonest intention. One the

product itself and the other the money of the product. If this cannot

be cheating, it is ununderstandable as to what can be a classic

illustration of ingenious cheating. The submission of the learned

senior counsel for the petitioners that it would not amount to

cheating is on the face of it is unacceptable. The further fact is that

the amount close to ₹70/- lakhs is found in the coffers of the

account of accused No.1. The submission is that there are some

debits also from his account. Therefore, the ingredients are not

met, is again a figment of imagination of the learned senior

counsel. 11. On the advent of internet and its tremendous

advancement, the world today is unipolar. Crimes and its

commission have become ingenious, particularly in the digital age

of today. There is huge proliferation in the cyber crimes and online

frauds in particular. It is developed to an alarming rate, leaving the

victims in their wake. The modus operandi, in these new age

crimes, have completely changed the conventional acts of robbery

and dacoity. Though they still exist, but the digital crimes have

overshadowed the conventional crimes. The consequences of such

crimes are beyond boundaries. It is, therefore, they are modern

age crimes. 12. The case at hand is shrouded with seriously disputed

questions of fact and any such seriously disputed questions of fact

can be thrashed out only in a full-blown trial. This Court would be

loathe to interfere with such facts which require a full-blown trial. In

this context, it would become apposite to refer to the judgment of 18 the Apex Court in the case of KAPTAN SINGH v. STATE OF

UTTAR PRADESH1 wherein it has been held as follows: 9.2. In Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar [Dhruvaram
Murlidhar Sonar v. State of Maharashtra , (2019) 18 SCC 191 : 9.3. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the
aforesaid decisions to the facts of the case on hand, we are of
the opinion that the High Court has exceeded its jurisdiction in 20 quashing the criminal proceedings in exercise of powers under Section 482 CrPC. 10. The High Court has failed to appreciate and consider
the fact that there are very serious triable issues/allegations
which are required to be gone into and considered at the time
of trial. The High Court has lost sight of crucial aspects which
have emerged during the course of the investigation. The High
Court has failed to appreciate and consider the fact that the
document i.e. a joint notarised affidavit of Mamta Gupta
Accused 2 and Munni Devi under which according to Accused 2
Ms Mamta Gupta, Rs 25 lakhs was paid and the possession
was transferred to her itself is seriously disputed. It is required
to be noted that in the registered agreement to sell dated 27-
10-2010, the sale consideration is stated to be Rs 25 lakhs
and with no reference to payment of Rs 25 lakhs to Ms Munni
Devi and no reference to handing over the possession.
However, in the joint notarised affidavit of the same date i.e.
27-10-2010 sale consideration is stated to be Rs 35 lakhs out
of which Rs 25 lakhs is alleged to have been paid and there is
a reference to transfer of possession to Accused 2. Whether Rs
25 lakhs has been paid or not the accused have to establish
during the trial, because the accused are relying upon the said
document and payment of Rs 25 lakhs as mentioned in the
joint notarised affidavit dated 27-10-2010. It is also required
to be considered that the first agreement to sell in which Rs 25
lakhs is stated to be sale consideration and there is reference
to the payment of Rs 10 lakhs by cheques. It is a registered
document. The aforesaid are all triable issues/allegations
which are required to be considered at the time of trial. The
High Court has failed to notice and/or consider the material
collected during the investigation. 11. Now so far as the finding recorded by the High Court
that no case is made out for the offence under Section 406 IPC
is concerned, it is to be noted that the High Court itself has
noted that the joint notarised affidavit dated 27-10-2010 is
seriously disputed, however as per the High Court the same is
required to be considered in the civil proceedings. There the
High Court has committed an error. Even the High Court has
failed to notice that another FIR has been lodged against the
accused for the offences under Sections 467 , 468 , 471 IPC 21 with respect to the said alleged joint notarised affidavit. Even
according to the accused the possession was handed over to
them. However, when the payment of Rs 25 lakhs as
mentioned in the joint notarised affidavit is seriously disputed
and even one of the cheques out of 5 cheques each of Rs 2
lakhs was dishonoured and according to the accused they were
handed over the possession (which is seriously disputed) it can
be said to be entrustment of property. Therefore, at this stage
to opine that no case is made out for the offence under Section 406 IPC is premature and the aforesaid aspect is to be
considered during trial. It is also required to be noted that the
first suit was filed by Munni Devi and thereafter subsequent
suit came to be filed by the accused and that too for
permanent injunction only. Nothing is on record that any suit
for specific performance has been filed. Be that as it may, all
the aforesaid aspects are required to be considered at the time
of trial only. 12. Therefore, the High Court has grossly erred in
quashing the criminal proceedings by entering into the
merits of the allegations as if the High Court was
exercising the appellate jurisdiction and/or conducting
the trial. The High Court has exceeded its jurisdiction in
quashing the criminal proceedings in exercise of powers
under Section 482 CrPC. 13. Even the High Court has erred in observing that
original complaint has no locus. The aforesaid observation is
made on the premise that the complainant has not placed on
record the power of attorney along with the counter filed
before the High Court. However, when it is specifically stated
in the FIR that Munni Devi has executed the power of attorney
and thereafter the investigating officer has conducted the
investigation and has recorded the statement of the
complainant, accused and the independent witnesses,
thereafter whether the complainant is having the power of
attorney or not is to be considered during trial. 14. In view of the above and for the reasons stated
above, the impugned judgment and order [ Radhey Shyam
Gupta v. State of U.P. , 2020 SCC OnLine All 914] passed by
the High Court quashing the criminal proceedings in exercise 22 of powers under Section 482 CrPC is unsustainable and the
 same deserves to be quashed and set aside and is accordingly
 quashed and set aside. Now, the trial is to be conducted and
 proceeded further in accordance with law and on its own
 merits. It is made clear that the observations made by this
 Court in the present proceedings are to be treated to be
 confined to the proceedings under Section 482 CrPC only and
 the trial court to decide the case in accordance with law and
 on its own merits and on the basis of the evidence to be laid
 and without being influenced by any of the observations made
 by us hereinabove. The present appeal is accordingly allowed." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court holds that, when the case is shrouded with

seriously disputed questions of fact, the High Court should not

interfere. The questions of fact are so seriously disputed in the case

at hand; they are maze and it would amaze this Court to interfere

on such facts. 13. For the aforesaid reasons, finding no merit, the petition is

rejected. Interim order of any kind operating shall stand

dissolved. It is made clear that the observations made in the course of

the order are only for the purpose of consideration of the case of 23 petitioners under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. and the same shall not bind

or influence the proceedings pending between the parties. Sd/- (M. NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE

bkp
CT:SS