1. The learned counsel for the parties were heard through video-
conferencing. 2. The petitioner has filed the present petition, inter alia, praying
that directions be issued to respondent nos. 2 to 4 to remove webpages
as are mentioned in paragraph no. 15 of the petition. 3. The petitioner is a young woman. She states that in the year
2012, she was sixteen years old and was studying in a well-known
School in Delhi. She came to be acquainted with a boy (hereafter „the
Accused‟), who was studying in the same class. And, within a short
span of time she became very close friends with him. However, he
was very possessive and would not permit her to talk to anyone else.
On several occasions he had snatched her phone and read all her
messages. She alleges that the accused started emotionally
blackmailing her and compelled her to send her intimate photographs
to him. He threatened that if she didn‟t, he would commit suicide. She
succumbed to the said tactics and started sending him her "intimate
pictures". She states that the relationship with the Accused was very
abusive and therefore, she broke up her relations with him. 4. After completing her schooling, she secured admission in
University of Bath, United Kingdom and in August, 2014 she
proceeded to the UK for further studies. She alleges that the Accused
did not stop pursuing her and used to call her about 50 to 70 times a
day. She used to avoid his calls but he would persist by calling her W.P. (CRL.) 1080/2020 Page 2 of 13 from unknown numbers. She states that one day he landed up at her
residence in Bath, U.K. and physically assaulted her. She alleges that
he tried to throttle her; he placed a knife on her neck; and threatened to
kill her. The petitioner was constrained to lodge a police complaint
against the Accused. The matter was brought before the Magistrate
Court of the Province of Bath, United Kingdom. The Accused
pleaded guilty and on 04.01.2017, the Court passed an order
restraining the accused from contacting the petitioner by any means
including electronic, means for a period of two years, that is, till
04.01.2019. In addition, the Accused was also restrained from
entering the City of Bath for a period of two years. 5. The Accused returned to India in the year 2017. The petitioner
states that in the year 2019, she decided to proceed to Melbourne,
Australia for higher studies. She claims that in October - November
2019, she became aware that the Accused had posted her intimate
pictures on various platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, YouTube,
etc. She claims that the photographs uploaded were the same that
were sent by her to the Accused when she was a minor and the
Accused had misused the said photographs and placed them on the
internet. 6. The print-outs of the objectionable material are stated to have
been filed with the present petition as Annexure B. But the said
material is not on record. However, this Court is informed that the said
material has been shared with the investigating agency. After
becoming aware that the Accused had placed her photographs on the W.P. (CRL.) 1080/2020 Page 3 of 13 net, the petitioner filed a complaint against the Accused before the
Special Cell, Cyber Crime Department, Delhi Police. Pursuant to the
said complaint, an FIR bearing No. 129/2019 for commission of
offence punishable under Section 67-67A of the Information and
Technology Act, 2000 (hereafter 'the IT Act ') was registered.
Thereafter, the petitioner's statement under Section 164 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 was recorded. 7. The petitioner also sent notices to respondent nos. 2 to 4
through her advocates calling upon them to immediately remove the
webpages containing her objectionable photographs. She contends
that despite forwarding the same, the said webpages/URLs were not
removed from the platforms provided by the respondent nos. 2 to 4.
The petitioner has mentioned forty such URLs (on the platform under
the control of respondent no. 2 - Facebook Inc). She has also
mentioned nine URLs on the platform www.youtube.com (YouTube)
which is hosted by respondent no.3 - Google LLC and two webpages
posted on the platform of respondent no.4 (Telegram). The petitioner‟s
prayer made in the present petition is limited to seeking a direction to
remove the said URLs (webpages) as set out in paragraph no. 15 of the
petition. 8. The present petition was listed on 17.07.2020 and on that date,
this Court directed respondent nos. 2 and 4 to ensure that the URLs
mentioned in paragraph no. 15 of the petition are removed. This
direction was issued as there was no dispute that the webpages
contained objectionable photographs of a minor girl. 9. On 28.07.2020, respondent no.2 (Facebook Inc.) submitted that
the directions issued on 17.07.2020 had been complied with and the
offending URLs on the Instagram platform as mentioned in paragraph
no. 15 of the petition had been removed. Similarly, it was reported that
seven out of the nine URLs on YouTube had also been removed. 10. On 26.08.2020, it was submitted before this Court that although
the URLs mentioned in paragraph no. 15 to the petition were removed
but further webpages containing the offending images had been
uploaded on Instagram, YouTube and other platforms. 11. It appears that the offending images had been widely distributed
and the same are also being uploaded by several persons other than the
Accused. This brought into the sharp focus the problem of preventing
circulation of identified objectionable material on the platforms
operated on the net. 12. Respondent no.2 (Facebook Inc.) has filed an affidavit, inter
alia, affirming that it has implemented a number of measures to
combat the spread of child porn (CP) including working with National
Centre for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) which is a non-
profit organization involved in helping to find missing children,
reduce child sexual exploitation and prevent child victimization.
NCMEC has created Cyber Tipline, providing an online mechanism to
receive reports of suspected CP content on the internet. It is affirmed
that once Facebook identifies a child porn (CP) image on its platforms,
it immediately removes the same. The contents of the relevant
account are preserved for ninety days pursuant to the applicable law, W.P. (CRL.) 1080/2020 Page 5 of 13 and the facts and circumstances associated with the same are reported
to NCMEC. It is further affirmed that Facebook has also adopted a
policy that prohibits any CP content on its platforms and the said
policy is widely disseminated. In addition to disseminating its policies,
there are other measures prevent CP content on the Facebook and
Instagram Services and the same include (i) an option for anyone to
report the said content, (ii) use of Photo DNA to identify any known
or apparent CP image, and (iii) active identification of key words
related to CP content. 13. Respondent no.3 (Google LLC) has also filed an affidavit
claiming that it has adopted various protocols to deal with the child
pornography or Child Sexual Abuse Materials (CP/CSAM) on its
YouTube platform. As in the case of Facebook, Google also states that
it has issued robust Community Standards and Policies that prohibit its
users from uploading any content that endangers the emotional and
physical wellbeing of minors. 14. Respondent no.3 has also affirmed that hundreds of new content
are uploaded on YouTube every minute and a combination of people
and machine learning is deployed at a scale for detecting, reviewing
and removing content that violates its Community Guidelines. It is
further affirmed that the measures adopted include (a) removal of
objectionable content on individual reporting; (b) Trusted Flagger
Program to provide robust tools to individuals, government agencies
and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) for effectively notifying
objectionable content on YouTube; (c) dedicated web-form for W.P. (CRL.) 1080/2020 Page 6 of 13 government agencies; (d) round the clock review team for reported
content. 15. It is stated that the Google LLC has a dedicated web form that
can be used by government agencies to report content that may be
unlawful, including CSAM related material, which is then expedited
for review by the relevant support teams. This web form can be
accessed at "http://support google.com/legal/contact/Ir_gov_india" In
addition, it is stated that when action is taken in respect of a video
based on YouTube policies or applicable local law, a message is put,
where the content once was, to explain to viewers the reasons for
removing the said video. It is stated that "video hashing" technology is
also deployed to prevent re-uploads of identical copies of video
content that was once removed for any violation of the Community
Guidelines. It is also affirmed that Google also deploys Artificial
Intelligence and Machine Learning (ML) tools to address the issue of
CP on its platforms. 16. The Government of India (Ministry of Electronics and
Information Technology) has also filed an affidavit referring to
various legislative provisions enacted to address the issue of
pornographic content on the net. Section 67B of the IT Act prescribes
the punishment to be imposed for committing an offence for
publishing or transmitting material depicting children in obscene,
indecent or in a sexually explicit manner. 17. Mr Ahluwalia, learned counsel appearing for Government of
India submitted that National Crime Records Bureau (hereafter W.P. (CRL.) 1080/2020 Page 7 of 13 NCRB) acts as a nodal agency for technical and operational functions
of On-Line Cyber Reporting Portal: "www.cybercrime.gov.in." The
incidents reported on the portal are shared with the law enforcement
agencies. NCRB has also entered into a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) with NCMEC to receive Cyber Tipline reports
relating to suspected CP content. 18. Mr Poovayya, learned senior counsel appearing for respondent
no.3 (Google LLC) submitted that when any CP content hosted on its
platform is reported, the same is removed immediately. However, it is
difficult to prevent uploading of the same prior to the content being
reported. He submitted that respondent no.3 does use artificial
intelligence to prevent the uploading of CP content in respect of any
known and reported image. However, the said technology has its
limitations because a known hash file or a digital fingerprint is then
applied for removing images with the same value. Thus, even a minor
change in the properties of the image would enable it to evade
discovery/action through the automated processes. Although current
automated processes have their inherent limitation, there is an ongoing
effort to develop more effective automated tools. 19. Mr Rohatgi, learned senior counsel appearing for respondent
no. 2 advanced submissions to the similar effect. 20. There is no dispute that intermediaries would be required to
take down or remove unlawful content on receiving information
regarding the same. Section (79)(1) of the IT Act grants conditional
immunity to the intermediaries and expressly provides that an W.P. (CRL.) 1080/2020 Page 8 of 13 intermediary shall not be liable for any third party information data or
communication link made available or hosted by it. However, this is
subject to the provisions of Sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 79 of
the IT Act. Clause (b) of Sub-section (3) of Section 79 of the IT Act is
relevant and reads as under:- 21. In Shreya Singhal v Union Of India : (2015) 5 SCC1 the
Supreme Court read down the scope of „actual knowledge‟ as used in
Clause (b) of Sub-section (3) of Section 79 of the IT Act to "receiving
actual knowledge from a court order or on being notified by the
appropriate government or its agency". Thus, the question whether the
intermediaries are required to remove offending content on an order of
court or appropriate government and its agencies is no longer res
integra. 22. It is not disputed by respondent nos.2 and 3 that on being
notified about any CP content being hosted on its platform or its site,
they would be obliged to remove the same. However, as noted earlier,
the issue in the present case is whether respondent nos.2 and 3 are also
required to ensure that such CP content is not hosted on their W.P. (CRL.) 1080/2020 Page 9 of 13 platforms. In this regard, it is relevant to refer to Section 20 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which reads
as under:- 23. Rule 11 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Rules, 2020 also makes it obligatory for intermediaries to report any
CP content or any information regarding storage and dissemination of
such content to Special Juvenile Police Unit or local police. The said
Rule is set out below: rule(1), also hand over the necessary material
 including the source from which such material
 may have originated to the SJPU or local police,
 or as the case may be, cyber-crime portal
 (cybercrime.gov.in) and upon such receipt of the
 said material, the SJPU or local police or the
 cyber-crime portal take necessary action as per the
 directions of the Government issued from time to
 time. (3) The report shall include the details of the
 device in which such pornographic content was
 noticed and the suspected device from which such
 content was received including the platform on
 which the content was displayed. (4) The Central Government and every State
 Government shall make all endeavors to create
 widespread awareness about the procedures of
 making such reports from time to time." 24. Ms Rao, learned ASC appearing for the State referred to the
statutory framework in various countries to address the issue of child
exploitation and protection of children from offences. 25. Given the statutory framework, it would be necessary for the
intermediaries to take all effective measures that may be available
with them to ensure that the CP content is not hosted on their
platforms. The respective affidavits filed by respondent nos.2 and 3 W.P. (CRL.) 1080/2020 Page 11 of 13 also indicate that they are using Artificial Intelligence and other tools
to remove the offending content from their platforms. 26. This Court is also informed that National Crime Report Bureau
(NCRB) has also entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with
NCMEC to report all offending CP content in order that the same can
be removed from all other platforms as well. 27. In the circumstances, this Court directs the concerned police
agencies to forward offending material relating to the petitioner, which
undeniably falls within the scope of sexual explicit material relating to
a child, to the NCRB. The NCRB shall also use the protocols available
in terms of the Memorandum of Understanding entered into with
NCMEC or otherwise to notify the offending material in order that the
same can be actioned and removed from other platforms as well. 28. Respondent nos.2 and 3 are also directed to use such measures
as available with them to remove, the contents which are similar to the
contents of the URLs as mentioned in paragraph no. 15 of the present
petition. Of course, this would be within the limitation of technology
and the tools available with the said respondents. 29. This Court is also informed that during the pendency of
the present petition, the following Web pages/URLs containing the
offending material have cropped up on Instagram: 30. Respondent nos. 2 is directed to take effective steps for removal
of the aforesaid URLs as well. 31. The police authorities shall also use the protocols and resources
available with NCRB and or other concerned agencies to identify the
persons who are re-uploading the offensive content in India and take
such actions as warranted, in accordance with law. 32. The petition is disposed of with the aforesaid directions. VIBHU BAKHRU, J
OCTOBER 20, 2020
pkv W.P. (CRL.) 1080/2020 Page 13 of 13