This is the second bail application under Section 483 of BNSS filed by
 the applicant for grant of bail. He has been arrested on 20.12.2025 by Police
 Station Umari, District Bhind in connection with Crime No.240/2025,
 registered in relation to the offence punishable under Sections 318(4),
 316(2), 3(5) B.N.S.
 As per prosecution story, the complainant Mandeep Soni had lodged a
 complaint to the effect that during a visit for Khatu Shyam darshan, he

 alongwith his cousin Badrinarayan Soni, and their friend Chetan Shrivas
 came into contact with the accused Sanjay alias Anant and Rakesh alias Raj.
 The accused persons introduced themselves and stated that they could
 arrange loans as well as private company jobs. A few days later,
 Badrinarayan requested the accused persons to help arrange a loan for
 opening a shop. The accused persons told the complainants that in order to Signature Not Verified Signed by: PAWAN KUMAR Signing time: 3/6/2026 11:08:07 AM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-GWL:7729

 2 MCRC-9768-2026
 obtain the loan, they must send bank account details, ATM cards, SIM cards,
 Aadhaar cards, and PAN card copies. They further told them that only one
 loan could be sanctioned in a single bank account, therefore they should
 arrange multiple bank accounts. The complainant required a loan of Rs.5-6
 lakhs, therefore, he opened bank accounts in Bank of Maharashtra, Bhind
 and Indian Overseas Bank, and arranged two SIM cards, two ATM cards,
 Aadhaar card and PAN card copies. Similarly, Badrinarayan opened accounts
 in State Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank and arranged two SIM
 cards, two ATM cards, Aadhaar and PAN card copies. Chetan Shrivas
 opened accounts in Bank of Baroda and Bank of Maharashtra and arranged
 two SIM cards, two ATM cards, Aadhaar and PAN card copies. On the
 instructions of accused Sanjay and Rakesh, all these documents were handed

 over at different times to the co-accused Chhotu alias Abhishek Yadav near
 the Government Hospital at Umri. Thereafter, whenever the complainants
 asked about the loan, the accused persons kept delaying the matter saying
 that the loan would soon be credited to the bank accounts and the process
 was ongoing. On 15.12.2025, co-accused Chhotu alias Abhishek Yadav
 came to the shop of the complainant Mandeep Soni and informed him that
 Rs.5,00,000/- had been credited to his bank account and the amount needed
 to be withdrawn. Accordingly, Mandeep, Badrinarayan and co-accused
 Abhishek went to the bank, where Rs.5,00,000/- was withdrawn, and the said
 amount was taken away by Abhishek. When the complainant stated that the
 money belonged to the loan amount, co-accused Abhishek replied that it was
 not loan money and told them to come to Bhind the next day to discuss the Signature Not Verified Signed by: PAWAN KUMAR Signing time: 3/6/2026 11:08:07 AM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-GWL:7729

 3 MCRC-9768-2026
 matter. On the next day, outside Grand Hotel, Bhind, Abhishek informed
 them that Rakesh and Sanjay were staying at the hotel. When Badrinarayan
 and Chetan went there, they met accused Raj (Rakesh), Sanjay, and their
 associates Umesh, Istiyaq, and Rahul (present applicant). Raj and Sanjay told
 them that all five of them were working together and their bank accounts had
 been rejected, and therefore money belonging to someone else's loan had
 been credited into their accounts. They further asked the complainants to
 provide more bank accounts, ATM cards and SIM cards. When
 Badrinarayan and Chetan informed Mandeep about this conversation, he
 became suspicious. Thereafter, Mandeep along with Badrinarayan and
 Chetan went to the bank and made inquiries, where it was revealed that
 transactions amounting to Rs.50,00,000/- had taken place in Mandeep's
 account. It was further discovered that the accused persons had used their
 bank accounts for cyber fraud activities. During investigation, the accused
 persons were arrested. During interrogation, the accused disclosed that they
 used to collect bank accounts, Aadhaar cards, PAN cards, ATM cards and
 SIM cards from people on the pretext of providing jobs or arranging loans.
 They would then receive money obtained through cyber fraud in those
 accounts, from which they received a commission of 30%. The accused
 further disclosed that they carried out these activities from a rented flat at
 Sindhi Camp, Jaipur. Money used to come into the said accounts from online
 gaming platforms such as Ludo, Rummy, Teen Patti, and Aviator, where
 people would deposit or lose money, and the operation of these activities was

 controlled from Dubai. After some time, through WhatsApp groups, a new Signature Not Verified Signed by: PAWAN KUMAR Signing time: 3/6/2026 11:08:07 AM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-GWL:7729

 4 MCRC-9768-2026
 bank account number would be circulated, in which the remaining money
 would be transferred. Each time, a different Indian bank account was used.
 As per the memorandum statement of accused Sanjay, the bank accounts of
 Mandeep, Chetan, and Badrinarayan were used by the accused persons to
 receive the money obtained through cyber fraud. On the basis of such
 allegations, alleged crime was registered. Learned counsel for the applicant/accused submits that the applicant is
 innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. It is pointed out
 that earlier bail application was dismissed as withdrawn vide order dated
 17.02.2026 passed in M.Cr.C.No.3578 of 2026 with liberty to renew his
 prayer after filing of challan/charge sheet. Now the charge sheet/challan has
 been filed, the applicant is entitled to seek bail afresh. It is further submitted
 that the entire case of the prosecution originates from the complaint of the
 complainant Mandeep Soni, wherein it has been alleged that the complainant
 along with his cousin Badrinarayan Soni and friend Chetan Shrivas came in
 contact with the main accused persons, namely, Sanjay alias Anant and
 Rakesh alias Raj during their visit for Khatu Shyam darshan. The said
 accused persons allegedly induced them on the pretext of arranging loans and
 jobs in private companies and asked them to provide their bank account
 details, ATM cards, SIM cards and copies of Aadhaar and PAN cards. On
 the basis of such inducement the complainant and his associates opened
 several bank accounts and provided the said documents to co-accused
 Chhotu alias Abhishek Yadav at Umri. Learned counsel further submits that
 even as per the prosecution story, the said documents and bank accounts Signature Not Verified Signed by: PAWAN KUMAR Signing time: 3/6/2026 11:08:07 AM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-GWL:7729

 5 MCRC-9768-2026
 were directly handed over to co-accused Chhotu alias Abhishek and the
 alleged inducement was given by the main accused persons Sanjay alias
 Anant and Rakesh alias Raj. The present applicant was neither in contact
 with the complainant nor was any document, ATM card, SIM card or bank
 account handed over to him at any point of time. It is further submitted that
 the name of the applicant has surfaced only subsequently when the
 complainant and his companions went to Bhind and allegedly met some
 persons at Grand Hotel, where they claim to have seen the applicant along
 with other accused persons. Thus, the applicant has not played any direct role
 in obtaining the bank accounts or documents from the complainant or in
 withdrawing any money from the bank. It is further submitted that the
 amount of Rs.5,00,000 which was allegedly withdrawn from the account of
 the complainant was taken away by co-accused Chhotu alias Abhishek and
 not by the present applicant. Therefore, no overt act has been attributed to
 the present applicant in relation to the said transaction. Learned counsel also
 submits that the allegation that a transaction of approximately Rs.50,00,000
 took place in the account of the complainant pertains to alleged cyber fraud
 activities carried out by other accused persons. The prosecution has not
 produced any material to demonstrate that the present applicant had any
 control over the bank accounts of the complainant or that he operated those
 accounts in any manner. There is also no material to show that any portion of
 the alleged amount was ever transferred to or recovered from the possession
 of the applicant. It is submitted that the implication of the applicant is
 primarily based on the memorandum statement of co-accused persons Signature Not Verified Signed by: PAWAN KUMAR Signing time: 3/6/2026 11:08:07 AM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-GWL:7729

 6 MCRC-9768-2026
 recorded by the police during investigation, which has very limited
 evidentiary value in law and cannot be treated as substantive evidence
 against the applicant. Except for such statements, there is no independent
 evidence connecting the applicant with the alleged offence. No recovery has
 been made from the applicant and no incriminating material has been seized
 from his possession. It is further submitted that the applicant has been in
 custody since 20.12.2025 and the trial is likely to take considerable time for
 its conclusion. There is no likelihood of his absconding or tampering with
 the prosecution evidence. He is willing to abide by any terms and conditions
 that may be imposed by this Court. On these grounds, it is urged that the
 applicant deserves to be enlarged on bail. Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor for the State has opposed the
 application and prayed for its rejection, contending that the present case
 relates to a well-organized cyber fraud racket wherein the accused persons,
 including the present applicant Rahul, were acting in concert with the co-
 accused persons. It is further contended that the accused persons used to
 obtain bank accounts, ATM cards, SIM cards, Aadhaar cards and PAN cards
 from innocent persons on the pretext of arranging loans and providing jobs in
 private companies, and thereafter used those accounts to receive money
 obtained through cyber fraud. During investigation, it has been revealed that
 huge amounts of money were routed through the bank accounts arranged by

 the complainant and his associates, including transactions amounting to
 approximately Rs.50,00,000/- in the account of the complainant, which
 clearly indicates the magnitude and seriousness of the offence. It is further Signature Not Verified Signed by: PAWAN KUMAR Signing time: 3/6/2026 11:08:07 AM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2026:MPHC-GWL:7729

 7 MCRC-9768-2026
 contended that the present applicant was actively associated with the other
 accused persons and was part of the group operating the illegal activities
 from a rented flat at Sindhi Camp, Jaipur. The prosecution has collected
 material during investigation indicating the involvement of the applicant in
 the conspiracy along with other co-accused persons, who were receiving
 fraudulent amounts in the accounts obtained from the complainant and others
 and sharing the proceeds of crime. Heard learned counsel for the rival parties and perused the case diary.
 Considering the overall facts and circumstances of the case, nature of
 allegations, coupled with the fact that the trial is not likely to conclude in
 near future and prolonged pre-trial detention being an anathema to the
 concept of liberty, this Court is inclined to extend the benefit of bail to the
 applicant. Accordingly, without expressing any opinion on merits of the case,
 this application is allowed and it is directed that the applicant be released on
 bail on furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees Fifty
 Thousand only) with one local solvent surety of the like amount to the
 satisfaction of the trial Court/committal Court for his appearance on the dates
 given by the concerned Court, subject to compliance of the following
 conditions by the applicant:- 8 MCRC-9768-2026
 extending inducement, threat or promise to any person
 acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him
 from disclosing such facts to the Court or to the Police
 Officer, as the case may be; 4. The applicant shall not commit any other offence
 during pendency of the trial, failing which this bail order
 shall stand cancelled automatically, without further reference
 to the Bench; 5. The applicant will not seek unnecessary
 adjournments during the trial; and 6. The applicant will not leave India without previous
 permission of the trial Court/Investigating Officer, as the case
 may be. Certified copy as per rules. (MILIND RAMESH PHADKE)
 JUDGE

 pwn* Signature Not Verified Signed by: PAWAN KUMAR Signing time: 3/6/2026 11:08:07 AM