I have started searching job abroad in December 2022. In the process, I have received message from Miss Anu from Thar Consultant on[protected] stating that they will help finding job. I have shared my resume and documents including ID proofs. They scheduled interview on 3-1-2023 with Nexhenn Construction. I received offer letter after 2 days. They sent me Visa application and I sent back filling it. On[protected], they asked me to deposit Visa filing fee and Biometric fee of Rs 20, 000. Later, they have asked to submit more documents like ITR, Bank Statements. After few days, they asked to deposit Rs 50, 000 for half of the ticket price. I suspected and resisted to send the amount. Later, they informed that they are reputed firm and shown the proof that they are registered in UDYAM which is Indian Government registered. I have cross checked and sent them the amount on[protected]. Later, she informed me that my file is moved to Miss Deepika from same consultancy. She collected Rs 60, 000 as stamping fee on[protected]. In May, I have submitted all the documents. On 1-7-2023, they have booked my Biometric appointment through my Credit card in VFS Global Canada which costs me CAD 185 (Rs.12, 000). I have received Biometric appointment letter in email from Synex Immigration. I have submitted my Biometric at VFS Global on 6-7-2023. Again, they insisted to pay 1 lakh rupees as I got better offer for my Profile. I got offer letter from Cemmkco construction with better package. I sent them 1 lakh rupees on[protected]. From then, there is no proper response from their end and if they respond, they tell that Visa process will be completed soon. Ms Deepika told that she was out of station for training and other consultant will call me and give an update. I did not receive any call from their end did not receive response to the email either. All the time in between from start to end they made many fake promises and manipulated me with different proofs. I agree it is my mistake as I paid all the money without verifying by going there physically. However, I have verified few sites like UDYAM before paying them which is not enough and haunting me from past few months. I have made payments of 20, 000, 50, 000 and 60, 000 to the account which is held by Mr. Sukhvir Singh. I have made the payment of 1, 00, 000 to the account held by Ms. Rekha. I have made Biometric fee payment of CAD 185 through my credit card. Recipient is showing as Immigration services, Ottawa in my Credit card statement. Below are the bank account details as the screenshots does not contain full details Account Holder name - Mr Sukhvir singh Account number - [protected] IFSC -PUNB0512710 Punjab National Bank Account Holder name - Rekha Account no:[protected] IFSC code:IDIB000C073 Bank: Indian Bank Below are the contact details: Ms Anu - [protected] Ms Deepika - [protected] Thar Consultant - [protected]@gmail.com Mike Willis - [protected]@nexhenncan.com Synex Immigration - [protected]@gmail.com Andrew Smith - [protected]@cemmkco.com I kindly request to resolve this issue and help me to get the compensation. Otherwise, I hope to receive my money back which I have paid them as explained in complaint. Please do the needful Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)