(Against the Judgment of conviction dated 27.11.2024 and Order
 of Sentence dated 29.11.2024 passed by learned Special Judge,
 Cyber Crime, Jamtara in Cyber Case No. 10 of 2019) ------ Iqbal Rashid, aged about 38 years, S/o- Afzal Rashid, R/o-
 Village- Chengaidih, P.O.+P.S.- Jamtara, District- Jamtara
 ... Appellant
 Versus
 The State of Jharkhand ... Respondent ------ For the Appellant : Mr. Mahesh Tewari, Advocate
 For the Resp.- State : Mr. Naveen Kr. Ganjhu, Addl.P.P. ------ 2. This appeal under Section 415(2) of B.N.S.S., 2023 has been

 preferred against the Judgment of conviction dated 27.11.2024 and the

 Order of sentence dated 29.11.2024 passed by the learned Special

 Judge, Cyber Crime, Jamtara in Cyber Case No. 10 of 2019 whereby

 and where under the learned trial court has held the appellant guilty of

 the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 120B of the Indian

 Penal Code and Section 66D of the Information Technology Act, 2000

 and he has been sentenced as follows:- 1 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025 Wallets were installed but the SIM Card was was obtained on the basis

of forged document, in the name of a person. The appellant confessed

his guilt before the police and disclosed the details of the Bank

Accounts in the name of several persons. The appellant admitted that

Kamaluddin is a commission agent and the appellant defrauded

money from gullible persons through cyber crime by using Debit Card

of Kamaluddin, on giving a share of twenty per cent of the money

withdrawn as a commission to Kamaluddin. 4. On the basis of the statement made by the informant- police

officer, police registered Jamtara Cyber Crime Case no. 39 of 2018 and

took up investigation of the case and after investigation of the case,

submitted charge sheet against the appellant while keeping the

investigation pending against three other co-accused persons. The

charges were framed against the appellant to which the appellant

pleaded not guilty. 5. In support of its case, the prosecution altogether examined four

witnesses. The appellant-accused persons did not examine any witness

in his defence. PW-1 namely Chitranjan Mishra- Inspector of Police

stated about the raid being conducted on getting secret information

that the appellant and the co-accused persons were indulging in cyber-

crime, by the side of the river by hiding themselves behind a Bamboo

Bush. He has also stated about the appellant being apprehended at the

spot and details of the recovery of mobile phones, SIM Cards,

Motorcycle, Pass Book of SBI. It was found out that in the mobile, 3 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025 [2025:JHHC:37650]

several e-wallets were installed by the appellant. The appellant also

admitted that the SIM Card which is in mobile phone, is a forged one

and by using the same, he used to transfer money obtained by cyber-

crime to the Account of co-accused namely Kamaluddin and giving

twenty percent of the money transferred to the Account of Kamaluddin

as commission. He has categorically stated that the appellant and his

associates in total four persons are members of the group and together

on the basis of the forged mobile and forged SIM Cards, they are

posing themselves as Bank Manager and by so deceiving the gullible

persons by fraudulently and dishonestly inducing them to part with

the details of their ATM Card, OTP Number, CVV Number used to

cheat several persons. He identified the appellant in the court. 6. In his cross-examination, he stated that he came to know about

the transactions made in the e-wallet by the technical experts. Only two

suggestions were given to him in his cross examination. The first

suggestion was that the accused person was apprehended erroneously

and the second suggestion was that the mobile phone which was

seized from the accused persons belongs to someone else. It is

pertinent to mention here that there is absolutely no cross-examination

of the PW-1 regarding the statement made in his examination-in-chief

that the appellant and the co-accused persons were members of a

group running cybercrime and by using forged mobile and forged SIM

Cards, they were posing themselves as Bank Manager and fraudulently

obtaining the details of ATM Cards, OTP Number, CVV Number and

were used to cheat gullible persons. 4 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025 [2025:JHHC:37650] 7. PW-2 namely Sunil Kumar Choudhary is also another Police

Inspector-cum-Officer In-charge, Jamtara, Cyber P.S. who took part in

the raid; which was conducted on 26.09.2018 upon the cyber criminals

and he has also corroborated the case of the prosecution like the PW-1.

He has also stated about the appellant being apprehended at the place

of occurrence along with forged SIM Cards, mobile phones,

motorcycle, Passbook; the details of which has been stated by him.

From the mobile phone which was used by the appellant with forged

mobile number was found to be having e-wallets and there was

transaction of huge money by the said e-wallets. The appellant

disclosed the details of the Bank Account with the branches of different

Banks at Delhi and Punjab owned by the appellant in different Banks.

The same were seized by the police after preparing the seizure list,

copy of which was given to the appellant. The PW-2 submitted a self-

written application. On the basis of which, Jamtara Cyber Crime Case

No. 39 of 2018 was registered. On being proved by him, the typed self-

statement of the PW-2- informant was marked as Ext.1 and the

endorsement regarding registration of the case was marked Ext.1/1.

The seizure list on being proved by the PW-2 was marked Ext.2 and the

same also bore the signature of the appellant as well as the PW-2

besides the witness. The formal FIR was marked Ext.3. The material

objects were marked Ext.4 to 11. He identified the appellant in the

court. 8. In his cross examination, he stated that he was In-charge of

Jamtara Cyber P.S. at the time of lodging of the FIR. He has further 5 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025 [2025:JHHC:37650]

stated that he has no special knowledge about how the cheating was

done by using the mobile recovered from the appellant. 9. PW-3 namely Lal Mohammad Ansari is the Chowkidar of the

place of occurrence locality. He has also supported the case of the

prosecution. Like the PW-1 and PW-2, he has stated about the

appellant being apprehended at the place of occurrence and recovery

of mobile phones, SIM Cards, Motorcycle, Passbook of SBI. He has

further stated about seizure of the same and the preparation of the

seizure list upon which PW-3 also signed and on being proved by him,

the signatures were marked Ext.2/1 and Ext.2/2 respectively. 10. In his cross examination, his statement in Examination-in-chief

about the appellant apprehended at the place of occurrence while the

co-accused persons fled away and whose name was disclosed by the

appellant and the recovery of the articles were not challenged by

putting any questions regarding the same to the PW-3. 11. PW-4 namely Ajay Kumar Panjikar was also an Inspector of

Police. He has recorded the statement of the appellant and the

statement of the witnesses. He obtained CAIF and Call Detail Reports.

The same on being proved by him was marked Ext.P-5/PW4 and the

certificate in terms of Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act was

marked as Ext.P-6/PW4. He further stated that total transaction of

Rs.9,81,302/- was found in the Kotak Mahindra Bank Account, the

number of which has been mentioned by the PW-4 which was used by

the appellant. He submitted charge sheet against the appellant while

continuing the investigation on technical points. He found a

transaction of Rs.6,71,410/- in the Bank Account; the passbook of 6 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025 [2025:JHHC:37650]

which was recovered by the police from the place of occurrence. After

technical investigation, it was found that the appellant who is the

cybercriminal involved in this case has cheated and thereby

dishonestly induced eight victims of huge sums of money, the names

and amounts of which the victims had been defrauded, has specifically

been stated by the PW-4 in para-12 of his deposition and he also

proved the Bank statement with the certificate under Section 2A of the

Bankers' Books Evidence Act, 1891; which on being proved by the PW-

4, has been marked Ext.P-8/PW4. He verified the details of the seized

mobile phones, SIM Card numbers, which were issued in the name of

the appellant and other forged persons, the details of which upon

being proved has been marked Ext.P-9/PW4. After completion of the

technical investigation against the appellant, the PW-4 submitted

supplementary charge sheet against the named accused persons of the

case being Siraj Ansari, Naseem Ansari and Kamaluddin Ansari. 12. In his cross-examination, the PW-4 has stated that he cannot say

that the cheated amount was transferred to which wallet of the mobile

phone; that was recovered from the accused persons. He, after

investigation, could not find any person namely Md. Gosia of District

of Giridih in whose name one of the SIM Card was issued but he did

not verify the voters list of village- Bholapur. He did not bring out the

Call Dump of that day. He only obtained the details of the transactions

from the concerned account of the Kotak Mahindra Bank but could not

get the KYC. The mobile number that was linked to the Bank Account

could not be contacted but transaction in that account continued till

30.09.2018. It is pertinent to mention here that there is absolutely no 7 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025 [2025:JHHC:37650]

cross-examination of the PW-4 regarding his statement made in his

examination-in-chief that after technical investigation, it was found out

that the appellant has cheated and fraudulently induced eight persons

to part with the respective different amounts by cheating nor there is

any cross-examination of the PW-4 that the Bank Account of Kotak

Mahindra Bank which was used by the appellant for committing the

cybercrime bore a transaction of Rs.9,81,302/-. 13. In his statement recorded under Section 313 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure, the appellant denied the allegations against him

and pleaded that he is innocent. 14. The learned trial court considered that it is difficult to obtain

direct oral evidence in case of crime committed through cyber space

and digital device. It also considered that Ext.5 is the statement of the

transaction of the money obtained from the account of the victims from

the pay wallets payment and though the appellant does not deny the

same but he has not come up with any explanation as to what was the

occasion for the victims transferring huge amount of money to their

accounts. Similarly, the appellant could not explain the transactions

made in the account of Rajaul Ansari in the account maintained in with

Sadar Bazar, Delhi, Chandni Chowk branch. Though he did not cross-

examine the prosecution witnesses about their statements that the said

account was used by the appellant for committing cheating and

thereby dishonestly inducing the victims to part with money. 15. The learned trial court considered that prosecution has

successfully proved from the CDR of the SIM Card numbers recovered

from the possession of the accused and also from the place of 8 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025 [2025:JHHC:37650]

occurrence which has been used over several persons for receiving

money through digital means. The learned trial court then considered

that the prosecution has proved the transaction of Rs.9,81,302/- though

the same was also not denied by the accused but there was no

explanation for receiving of such huge amounts in such account. The

learned trial court also considered that transactions of Rs.6,71,410/- in

the account of co-accused Kamaluddin Ansari which has been marked

Ext.7; in which huge amount of money was received by cheating and

fraud. The learned trial court also relied upon Ext.P-8 which is the

statement of the account and which is admissible in evidence in view

of the certificate furnished under the provisions of the Bankers' Books

Evidence Act . The learned trial court then considered that the

Investigating Officer has found that there was no person in the name of

Md. Gosia of Giridih district in whose name one of the SIM Cards was

recovered, exists. 16. It appears that there is some printing error in the impugned

judgment and apparently para-14, 15 and 16 has been misprinted in the

judgment which appears to be a part of the order of sentence. The

learned trial court after considering the evidence in the record, came to

the conclusion that the prosecution has successfully proved

commission of the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 120B of

the Indian Penal Code and Section 66D of the Information Technology

Act, 2000 beyond the shadow of reasonable doubt against the appellant

and held the appellant guilty of the said offences while acquitted him

of rest of the charges framed against him and cancelled the bail of the 9 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025 [2025:JHHC:37650]

appellant, took him into custody and on 29.11.2024 passed the order of

sentence as already indicated above. 17. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that there was

material contradictions in the testimony of all the witnesses yet the

learned trial court convicted the appellant by holding him guilty of the

offences as already indicated above. It is next submitted that the

learned trial court has failed to appreciate the case from the correct

angle and has failed to appreciate that there is no victim who come

forward to claim that this appellant has cheated any person or

misappropriated their money in any manner. It is then submitted that

the learned trial court ought to have considered that possessing mobile

phone or more than two SIM Cards itself is not an offence and that the

prosecution has failed to substantiate the charges against the appellant.

It is then submitted that the learned trial court failed to appreciate that

except the recovery and seizure of mobile phones and the motorcycles,

other items are not of the accused. 18. The learned counsel for the appellant relies upon the judgment

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of A. M. Mohan vs.

The State represented by SHO & Another reported in 2024 INSC 233

and submits that in that case relating to the offence of cheating by the

accused to his friend by deceiving his friend and inducing him to pay

Rs.1,60,01,000/- for business project, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of

India relied upon the judgment in the case of Prof. R.K. Vijayasarathy

& Another vs. Sudha Seetharam & Another reported in (2019) 16 SCC

739, paragraph Nos. 16 to 20 of which read as under:- 19. The ingredients to constitute an offence under Section
 420 are as follows: and submits that in this case, the victim has not come to court to

depose against the appellant and there was transaction in the account

of Kamaluddin even after the arrest of the appellant, so the impugned

judgment of the conviction and the order of sentence is not sustainable

in law. Hence, it is submitted that the same be quashed and set aside. 11 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025
 [2025:JHHC:37650] 19. Learned Addl.P.P. appearing for the State defends the impugned

judgment and submits that there is absolutely no cross-examination of

the prosecution witnesses on the point of recovery of the mobile

phones, SIM Cards, Passbook of the State Bank of India having a

transaction of Rs.6,71,410/- and also another account of Kotak

Mahindra Bank with a transaction of Rs.9,81,302/-. There is absolutely

no cross-examination of PW-4 regarding his statement made in

examination-in-chief in para-12 of his deposition that the technical

investigation revealed that it is the appellant and the other co-accused

persons of the case who have cheated and thereby dishonestly induced

eight persons whose names and amounts defrauded from each of them

by the appellant have been mentioned in para-12. It is next submitted

that in the absence of any cross-examination of these witnesses on the

vital aspects of the culpability of the appellant in the offence, the same

is to be accepted to be true and rightly the learned trial court has done

so. It is then submitted that unlike the case of cheating where the

accused came face-to-face with the victim in a cybercrime, the accused

never comes face-to-face with the victim. So, the victim has no

opportunity to see and identify the accused in a court of law. Hence,

the evidence in such cases has to be substantial in nature and this case

being no exception, the prosecution has brought evidence that too

unchallenged regarding the circumstance which leads to the only

conclusion that it is the appellant, who has committed the offences and

thus, the learned trial court having rightly held the appellant guilty

and convicted him and sentenced him, the impugned judgment does

 12 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025
 [2025:JHHC:37650]

not suffer from any illegality. Hence, it is submitted that this appeal,

being without any merit, be dismissed. 20. Having heard the submissions made at the Bar and after

carefully going through the materials available in the records, it is

pertinent to mention here that it is a settled principle of law that if a

party wishes to raise any doubt as regards the correctness of the

statement of a witness, the said witness must be given an opportunity

to explain his statement by drawing his attention to that part of it,

which has been objected to by the other party, as being untrue and

without this, it is not possible to impeach his credibility, as has been

held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Laxmibai

(Dead) Through LRs. & Another vs. Bhagwantbuva (Dead) Through

LRs. & Others reported in AIR 2013 (SC) 1204, para-31 of which as

under:- 21. It is pertinent to mention here that there are instances galore

where the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has held that in the absence

of cross-examination of a witness, the evidence of such witness remains

un-challenged and ought to be believed. In the case of State of U.P v.

Nahar Singh reported in AIR 1998 SC 1328, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court of India in paragraph no. 13 and 14 held as under:- 14. The oft quoted observation of Lord Herschell, L.C. in
 Browne v. Dunn, (1893) 6 The Reports 67, clearly
 elucidates the principle underlying those provisions. It reads
 thus: This aspect was unfortunately missed by the High Court
 when it came to the conclusion that explanation for the
 delay is not at all convincing. This reason is, therefore, far
 from convincing."(Emphasis given by me)

 Similarly in the case of Sunil Kumar & Another v. State of

Rajasthan reported in AIR 2005 SC 1096, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

of India observed in paragraph No.13 of the judgment as under:- 22. Now coming to the facts of the case; as already indicated above,

there is absolutely no cross-examination of the PW-1 wherein he has

categorically stated that the appellant and the co-accused persons were

members of a group of criminals and together they with forged mobile

phones and SIM Cards, were impersonating as Bank Manager and was

obtaining the details of the ATM Card, OTP number, CVV number and

were cheating them. So, this portion of the testimony of the PW-2 in the

absence of the cross-examination is to be treated as true. There is

absolutely no cross-examination of the PW-2 and PW-3 regarding the

seizures made from the possession of the appellant at the place of

occurrence in presence of the appellant. The statement made by the

PW-4 in para-12 to the effect that after technical investigation, it was
 15 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025
 [2025:JHHC:37650]

found out that the appellant has cheated eight persons of different

amounts and dishonestly induced them to part with the said amount,

has also remained unchallenged. The details of the eight persons and

the money they have parted with by way of being deceived and

dishonestly to pay as has been mentioned in para-12 but the same is

supported by the statement of the concerned accounts the statement of

which has been marked exhibit and they were accompanied by the

certificate as well as the requirement under Section 2A of the Bankers'

Books Evidence Act, 1891 and in view of Section 4 of the Bankers'

Books Evidence Act, 1891, such statement of accounts being certified

copy of the entry and Bankers' Book is to be received as prima facie

evidence of existence of such entry and is to be admitted as evidence of

the matters, transaction and accounts therein recorded in every case;

more so when the transaction in the accounts were not challenged and

the appellant does not throw light on the fact as to how eight victims

were liable to pay the amount defrauded to him; is certainly a strong

incriminating circumstance against the appellant, as has been held by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of State of Rajasthan

vs. Kashi Ram reported in (2006) 12 SCC 254 wherein it was observed

by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India that if the accused does not

throw light on the fact which is within his knowledge, his failure to

offer some plausible explanation would be a strong incriminating

circumstance against him. 23. As has rightly been submitted by the learned Addl.P.P. that

unlike a normal case of cheating where the victim had the occasion to

see the accused, certainly, the cybercrime stands in a different footing,

 16 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025
 [2025:JHHC:37650]

where there is no occasion for the victim to come face-to-face with the

accused and in such cases, it cannot be insisted upon that the victim

has to come to court to identify the accused but to bring home the

charge, the evidence is to be put forth basically by way of

circumstances, which lead to the only conclusion that it is the accused

who has committed the offences. 24. Now coming to Section 419 of the Indian Penal Code which

provides punishment for cheating by personation whereas Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code provides for punishment of cheating and

dishonestly inducing delivery of property. Section 66D of the

Information Technology Act, 2000 provides punishment for cheating

by personation by using any communication device. 25. Now coming to the facts of the case; in view of the discussions

made above as the prosecution has successfully brought on record the

recovery of forged SIM Cards, several mobile phones having several e-

wallets facility, the transaction made in the Bank Account- one of

Rs.6,71,410/- and in the other of Rs.9,81,302/- to which the appellant

had access and which accounts were used by the appellant and at least,

eight persons who have been cheated by the appellant has dishonestly

been induced to part with substantial amount of money as has been

mentioned in detail in para-12 of the PW-4 and the statement of

accounts of the connected Bank Accounts of the victims as well as the

appellant and the co-accused whose account was used by the appellant

for commission of the cybercrime and which has been proved beyond

reasonable doubt; itself goes to show that the prosecution has

succeeded in establishing all the three offences punishable under

 17 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025
 [2025:JHHC:37650] Sections 419 , 420 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66D of the

Information Technology Act, 2000. 26. The contention of the appellant that after arrest of the appellant,

also in one of the account of the co-accused Kamaluddin in which there

was transaction is concerned, it is the case of the prosecution that has

been established by unchallenged evidence that there were altogether

four persons in the group of the appellant; out of which, only the

appellant was arrested, whereas the other three managed to flee away

from the place of occurrence which fact remains undisputed. So, when

the three accused persons were at large, they are indulging in other

cybercrimes and ensuring money transferred to the account, cannot be

a ground to disbelieve the case of the prosecution; in support of which

the prosecution has put forth cogent evidence, as already discussed

above in the foregoing paragraphs of this judgement. 27. Under such circumstances, this Court is of the considered view

that no illegality has been committed by the learned trial court in

convicting the appellant of the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 of the Indian Penal Code as well as Section 66D of the Information

Technology Act, 2000. 28. So far as the sentence is concerned, keeping in view the fact that

Jamtara has become infamous because of the large number of

cybercrimes committed in the locality, victimizing people from all over

the country and to control the same, deterrence is highly essential; this

Court is of the considered view that the sentence imposed on the

appellant for the offences as already indicated above in the foregoing

paragraph of this judgement appears to be reasonable and thus do not

 18 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025
 [2025:JHHC:37650]

 warrant any interference of this Court in exercise of the power of this

 Court under Section 415(2) of the B.N.S.S., 2023. 29. Accordingly, this appeal, being without any merit, is dismissed. 30. In view of disposal of this appeal, pending interlocutory

 application, if any, is disposed of being infructuous. 31. Let the Trial Court Records be sent back to the court concerned

 with a copy of this judgement forthwith. (Anil Kumar Choudhary, J.)
High Court of Jharkhand, Ranchi
Dated the 05th of December, 2025
AFR/ Saroj

Uploaded on 22/12/2025

 19 Cr. Appeal (SJ) No.13 of 2025