That, the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crime Police

Station, C.O.D, Bengaluru, has filed the Final report against the

accused for the offence punishable under sections 420 and 120(B)

r/w section 34 of the Indian Penal Code and under section 66 of the

Information Technology Act. . 1. That, the allegation of the prosecution is that the accused with

their common intention to make wrongful gain by conspiring with

each other have hacked the bank accounts of CWs2 to 6 and got

transferred the amount of sum of Rs.67,349/- in their respective

bank accounts and recharged the mobile phones and paid the post

paid bills to the different subscribers. 2. That, on complaint being lodged the Cyber Crime Police,

Bengaluru, have registered the case. That, the Investigating Officer

after completion of investigation filed the Final report against the

accused for aforesaid offences. 3. That, this court after taking the cognizance of the aforesaid

offences issued summons to the accused no.2 and he appeared 3 C.C.No.24836/2009 before this court. That, the provisions of section 207 of Code of

Criminal Procedure, have complied here with. That, the charge of the

accused no.2 has recorded and read over to him in language known

to him and he has not pleaded guilty and claimed to be tried. That,

after completion of prosecution side evidence, the statement of the

accused no.2 as contemplated under section 313 of Code of Criminal

Procedure, has recorded and read over to him in language known to

him and he denied all incriminating evidence appearing against him

and not chosen to lead either oral or documentary evidence on his

behalf. That, the accused no.2 has stated that he studied upto 9th

standard and he is not having the knowledge about computer. 4. That, I have heard the arguments and perused the materials

placed on record. That, the following points arise for My

consideration and determination: 5. That, the prosecution to prove its above case has got examined

PWs1 to 9 and got marked the documents at EXsP1 to P16(a) and

also got marked MOs1 to 4 and closed its side. 6. That, My answer to the aforesaid points are as under:- 7. Point No.1:- It is specific allegation of the prosecution that, all

accused with their common intention to make wrongful gain by

conspiring with each other have hacked the bank accounts of CWs2

to 6 and got transferred the amount of sum of Rs.67,349/- in their

respective bank accounts and recharged the mobile phones and paid

the post paid bills to the different subscribers. 5 C.C.No.24836/2009 It is pertinent to note here that, the prosecution to prove its

above case has got examined CW1- Smt.Umashankar Krishna w/o

K.Krishnan - the Complainant as PW3. It is pertinent to note here

that, PW3 in her examination-in-chief has deposed that in the year

2007 she received the complaints from their customers that

unauthorisidely some amount has been transferred from their

account through internet banking and after receiving the said

complaints from customers she gone through the relevant statement

of accounts to cross check the genuinity of the complaints and she

found that money has been unauthorisidely transferred from the

accounts of six customers towards unknown persons account and

thereafter, she lodged the complaint in Cyber Crime Police Station as

per EXP1. 8. It is pertinent to note here that, the prosecution to prove its

above case has further got examined CW15-Shri Suresh s/o Kottanur

Muniyappa-the Seizure mahazar witness as PW1. It is pertinent to

note here that, PW1 in his examination-in-chief has deposed that in

the month of December 2007 COD Deputy Superintendent of Police

had visited Kalyannagar, Bengaluru and at that time the accused no.1 6 C.C.No.24836/2009 was also present and at that time the Investigating Officer took the

computer output DATA and after obtaining hard disc from CPU he

took the ash value of the same and seized the said hard disc. 9. It is pertinent to note here that, the prosecution to prove its

above case has further got examined CW16-Shri Surender Singh

s/o Krishna Singh-the another Seizure mahazar witness as PW2. It is

pertinent to note here that, PW2 has turned hostile and not

supported the case of the prosecution. 10. It is pertinent to note here that, the prosecution to prove its

above case has further got examined CW25-Shri Hariprasad

s/o Panduranga-the another Seizure mahazar witness as PW4. It is

pertinent to note here that, PW4 in his examination-in-chief has

deposed that on 11-11-2008 the Cyber Crime Police have brought

one technician by name Mallikarjun to his cyber café and searched

the computer, but, they have not got any informatin in said computer

and for which the police have conducted the Seizure panchanama as

per EXP4. It is pertinent to note here that, the accused no.2 has not

cross-examined PW4. 11. It is pertinent to note here that, the prosecution to prove its

above case has further got examined CW17-Shri Ganeshgowda

s/o B.Thimmaiah-another Seizure mahazar witness as PW5. It is

pertinent to note here that, PW5 in his examination-in-chief has

deposed that on 06-12-2007 the COD police have got seized from

accused no.3 one packet diary, debit card of HDFC Bank and mobile

phone and conducted the Seizure mahazar as per EXP5. It is to be noted here that, the accused no.2 has not

cross-examined PW5. 12. It is pertinent to note here that, the prosecution to prove its

above case has further got examined CW19-Shri Shyam

s/o Ashwathappa-another Seizure mahazar witness as PW6. It is

pertinent to note here that, PW6 in his examination-in-chief has

deposed that on 07-12-2007 the Cyber Crime police have called him

to their office and enquired him about the accused by name Joseph

and on the same day they took him to Anu and Anil Cyber point

along with one Manjunath and in the said Cyber point the police have

seized one long book, one Latha Siddoji VISA paper and also checked 8 C.C.No.24836/2009 the cyber system in the said point and drawn the Mahazar as per

EXP6. It is to be noted here that, the accused no.2 has not

cross-examined PW6. 13. It is pertinent to note here that, the prosecution to prove its

above case has further got examined CW47-Shri Ramani

s/o Budalingama-the Executive Director of C-DAC as PW7. It is

pertinent to note here that, PW7 in his examination-in-chief has

deposed that in the month of January 2008 they have got a letter

from Cyber Crime Police Station COD, Bengaluru and in which they

have requested them for examining the seized hard disc and as per

the request made by COD police they have examined the hard disc

and given the Report as per EXP7. 14. It is pertinent to note here that, the prosecution to prove its

above case has further got examined CW49-Shri K.E.Vasudevarao

s/o K.P.Eshwarrao- the Investigating Officer as PW8. It is pertinent to

note here that, PW8 in his examination-in-chief has deposed that he

recorded the statements of Satish and Suresh Kumar and furnished 9 C.C.No.24836/2009 to CW15 the certified copy of the seizure mahazar pertaining to

Crime no.27/2007. It is to be noted here that, the accused no.2 has not

cross-examined PW8. 15. It is pertinent to note here that, the prosecution to prove its

above case has further got examined CW15-Shri S.S.Muddegowda

s/o Late Somegowda-the another Investigating Officer as PW9. It is

pertinent to note here that, PW9 has deposed about the investigation

conducted by him in present case. 16. It is pertinent to note here that, in the instant case the accused

no.2 is facing the trial for the offences punishable under sections

420 and 120(B) r/w section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. It is pertinent to note here that, for the offence of cheating

under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code, there must be deception

which should always precede the fraudulent or dishonest inducement

and it must be established that the intention of the accused was

dishonest at the time of making the promise. It is pertinent to note

here that, mere deceit, fraudulent or dishonest inducement will not 10 C.C.No.24836/2009 suffice to convict the accused under section 420 of Indian Penal

Code. It is pertinent to note here that, to establish a charge of

criminal conspiracy under section 120(B) of Penal Code, the

prosecution must prove an agreement between two or more persons

to do cause to be done some illegal act or some act which is not

illegal by illegal means and this fact can be proved by direct or

circumstantial evidence. It is pertinent to note here that, the offence

of conspiracy cannot be deemed to have been established on mere

suspicion and surmises or inference with lack of support of cogent

evidence. 17. It is pertinent to note here that, to held that the accused has

committed the offence punishable under section 66 of the

Information Technology Act, the prosecution has to prove that the

accused has committed either of offence as mentioned in section 43 of the said Act. It is pertinent to note here that, under sections 66 and 43 of the Information Technology Act, runs as follows: Explanation-For the purposes of this section- 43. (Penalty and compensation) for damage to

computer, computer system, etc- If any person without

permission of the owner or any other person who is in-

charge of a computer, computer system or computer

network, (a) accesses or secures access to such computer,

computer system or computer network (or computer

resource); (b) downloads, copies or extracts any data, computer

database or information from such computer, computer

system or computer network including information or data

held or stored in any removable storage medium; (c) introduces or causes to be introduced any computer

contaminant or computer virus into any computer, computer

system or computer network; (d) damages or causes to be damaged any computer,

computer system or computer network, data, computer

database or any other programmes residing in such

computer, computer system or computer network; (e) disrupts or causes disruption of any computer,

computer system or computer network; (f) denies or causes the denial of access to any person

authorised to access any computer, computer system or

computer network by any means; (g) provides any assistance to any person to facilitate

access to a computer, computer system or computer network 13 C.C.No.24836/2009 in contravention of the provisions of this Act, rules or

regulations made there under; (h) charges the services availed of by a person to the

account of another person by tampering with or

manipulating any computer, computer system, or computer

network; (i) destroys, deletes or alters any information residing

in a computer resource or diminishes its value or utility or

affects it injuriously by any means; (j) steel, conceals, destroys or alters or causes any

person to steal, conceal, destroy or alter any computer

source code used for a computer resource with an intention

to cause damage,

 (he shall be liable to pay damages by way of

compensation to the person so affected). Explanation- For the purposes of this section- (i)"computer contaminant" means any set of computer

instructions that are designed- (a) to modify, destroy, record, transmit data or

programme residing within a computer, computer system or

computer network; or (b) by any means to usurp the normal operation of the

computer, computer system, or computer network; (ii) "computer database" means a representation of

information, knowledge, facts, concepts or instructions in

text, image, audio, video that are being prepared or have

been prepared in a formalised manner or have been

produced by a computer, computer system or computer

network and are intended for use in a computer, computer

system or computer network; (iii) "computer virus" means any computer instruction,

information, data or programme that destroys, damages,

degrades or adversely affects the performance of a computer

resource or attaches itself to another computer resource and

operates when a programme, data or instruction is executed

or some other event takes place in that computer resource; 15 C.C.No.24836/2009 (iv) "damage" means to destroy, alter, delete, add,

modify or rearrange any computer resource by any means; (v) "computer source code" means the listing of

programmes, computer commands, design and layout and

programmer analysis of computer resource in any form. 18. It is pertinent to note here that, in the instant case from perusal

of entire evidence of PWs1 to 9 it clearly appears that there is no iota

of evidence against the accused no.2 and he has been falsely

implicated in present case. It is further pertinent to note here that,

PW7 in his cross-examination has deposed that in the above said

hard disc he has not found any bank account name, bank password

or any phone number. It is to be noted here that, in the instant case

the prosecution has failed to prove the essential ingredients of

sections 420 and 120(B) r/w section 34 of the Indian Penal Code and section 66 of the Information Technology Act. It is to be noted here

that, in view of My above findings and without much discussion I

hold that, the prosecution has failed to prove beyond all reasonable

doubt the guilt of the accused no.2 for the offence punishable under

sections 420 and 120(B) r/w section 34 of the Indian Penal Code and 16 C.C.No.24836/2009 under section 66 of the Information Technology Act. In view of the

same, point no.1 is answered in the NEGATIVE. 19. Point No.2:- That, as discussed on point no.1, I proceed to pass

the following:-