Two Appeals, MFA No.8545/2017 and MFA

No.8554/2017 filed under Order XLIII Rule 1(r) CPC arise

out of the suit O.S.5148/2017, instituted by Alliance

Business School at the City Civil Court, Bengaluru. The

appellant and the second respondent are defendants 1 and 2

respectively. The said suit is for permanent injunction to

restrain the defendants from claiming or representing or

posing as the Managing Director or Director or Shareholder

of the plaintiff company at any place or circumstance. In the

said suit, the plaintiff filed two applications, IA.1 and IA.2

under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 Code of Civil Procedure (hereinafter for short referred to as ' CPC ') for temporary

injunction pending disposal of the suit. Under IA.1, the

plaintiff sought restrainment of the defendants from

interfering with management affairs and administration of

the plaintiff company. In the second application for

temporary injunction, the plaintiff sought restrainment of

the defendants from representing or claiming as Managing

Directors or Shareholders of the Company. Since these two 17 applications stood allowed by the trial court by its common

order dated 21.10.2017, the first defendant has preferred

these appeals. 2. Other two appeals, MFA No. 8562/2017 and MFA

No. 8847/2017, arise from an order passed on IA No.2 filed

under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 of CPC in O.S. 3932/2017

instituted by Alliance University for permanent injunction to

restrain the defendants from entering upon the University

campus and causing obstruction in any manner to the

administration of the University. The interim application for

temporary injunction was allowed; the first and the seventh

defendants respectively in the suit have challenged this order

by filing separate appeals. 3. MFA No.8356/2017 arises out of the suit,

O.S.4202/2016, filed by Alliance Business School and others

against Registrar of Companies and others for multiple

prohibitory injunctions and mandatory injunction. In this

suit also the plaintiffs claimed temporary injunction in line

with main reliefs by filing two applications IA.1 and IA.2. To 18 vacate the order of exparte injunction granted at the

inception, the defendant filed an application, IA.3, under Order XXXIX Rule 4 of CPC . This application having been

allowed and temporary injunction vacated by the trial court,

the plaintiffs have preferred this appeal. 4. In the suit O.S.5148/2017, it is mainly pleaded

that the plaintiff, i.e., Alliance Business School (referred to

as 'company' hereinafter) is a Section 25 company, which is

a sponsoring body and controlling authority of Alliance

University, Bengaluru, (referred to as 'University')

established in terms of the Alliance University Act, 2010 .

The present Directors of the company are Sudhir Angur,

Smt. Shailaja Chebbi, Smt. Mala S.Gowda, Sri. Prakash

Siddappa, Sri. Krishna Mohan Ramaneni and Abhay Chebbi.

Sri. Sudhir Angur is the Managing Director and others are

the Directors. 5. The company was founded by Smt. Shailaja Chebbi

and Smt. Mala S.Gowda (referred to as 'founders'), with a

share holding of 50% each. Sudhir Angur gave a portion of 19 his property, No. 2 and 3, 36th Main, Dollars Scheme, BTM

Layout, I Stage, Bengaluru, for establishing the company,

and it was in this place the company started business

management school. Sudhir Angur, had an Educational

Trust called Sainath Educational Trust, and he was only

guiding the founders of the company in running the

business school. But Sudhir Angur had to face some

problems within his family; his wife as also father-in-law

made allegations against him that the company and its

educational institutions actually belonged to them and that

Shailaja Chebbi and Mala S.Gowda were only name lenders.

These developments prompted the founders to park their

shares of the company temporarily in a trust worthy person,

and thus they transferred their shares to Mr.Madhukar

Angur (the first defendant) by inducting him as a Director of

the company. It is stated that the shares were transferred to

Madhukar Angur in good faith without consideration and

obtaining a promise from him that he would return the

shares to the founders as and when requested. Madhukar

Angur was made Managing Director of the company, and 20 after establishment of the University, he became its founder

chancellor also. 6. It is further pleaded that once Madhukar Angur got

access to the financial side of the company and also its

institutions, he indulged in bizarre life style and started

looting the funds to meet his needs. As the founders sensed

of this, they checked the account books and came to know

the huge misappropriation. It was at that point of time that

the founders decided to take back their shareholdings from

Madhukar Angur, and with the intervention and persuasion

by the family members and the family friends, Madhukar

Angur agreed for transferring 43% shares of the company to

Smt. Mala Srinivasa Gowda. On 5.10.2011 he transferred

38% of the shares to Mala Srinivasa Gowda and 5% to her

husband, Srinivasa Gowda. He promised to transfer

remaining 57% shares after bank and audit clearance. 7. The founders, having acquired the shares

continued to manage the company with the guidance of their

brother Sudhir Angur. During May 2013, the company 21 availed loan of Rs.70 crore and purchased approximately 27

acres of land and built up area of 6,00,000 square feet

located at Chikka Hegade Cross, Anekal-Chandapura Road,

Bengaluru Rural District and another landed property to an

extent of O.5 acres with built up area of 35,000 square feet.

These transactions were dealt with actually by the founders

of the company although Madhukar had continued as

Managing Director of the company and the Chancellor of the

University having signing authority even after transferring

his share to the founders. 8. It is pleaded that Madhukar Angur married a girl,

Priyanka i.e., second defendant hailing from a very poor

family; and playing fraud and forgery, they knocked of 43%

shares of Mala Gowda and her husband Srinivasa Gowda by

showing that on 25.03.2014, there was transfer of these

shares to the name of the second defendant. Discreet

enquiry made in this regard showed that Madhukar Angur

had conspired with the second defendant, one Rajendradu

and some others. Mala Gowda wanted to lodge a complaint,

but she did not take any action, as her father and other 22 relatives stopped her from taking action. But after several

rounds of talks, Madhukar Angur, Priyanka and their aids

were asked to leave the organization and told that criminal

action would be taken if they would not leave. Finally,

Madhukar Angur agreed for resigning from the posts which

he held. On 4.3.2015, Board Meeting of the company was

held to pass a resolution for appointing Prakash Siddappa

and Abhay Chebbi as Additional Directors. On 5.3.2015,

another meeting was held, Madhukar Angur, Sachidananda

Macheneni and Krishna Mohan Ramaneni resigned from

directorship. Then Madhukar Angur and Priyanka

transferred their shares (49% held by Madhukar Angur and

43% held by Priyanka) to Abhay Chebbi and Prakash

Siddappa respectively. All the legal and procedural

formalities in relation to this transfer of share were complied

with, consideration amount for transferring the shares was

paid to them, and Madhukar Angur promised to provide his

digital signature for uploading the transfer transaction to the

portal of Registrar of Companies. 9. Having agreed to provide his digital signature, Mr.

Madhukar Angur, with his supporters, switched over to his

vile intentions, and to undo the transfer of shares, he

threatened the founders, their nominees and others to

return all the original documents including share transfers.

To achieve this end he brought third forces to disturb the

serene atmosphere of the university campus. With an

intention to bamboozle and murk the situation more, he

tampered with the digital signature of his ex-wife Mrs.Vani

B. Rao and elevated her to the status of additional director.

He also made his wife Priyanka B.S. as an additional

director. When the founders and the additional directors

appointed by them told Madhukar Angur of legal action

against him, he feared it and said that he would give his

digital signature for uploading the transactions of appointing

Abhay Govind Chebbi and Prakash Siddappa as additional

directors. On 11.04.2015, a meeting was held to accept the

resignation of Smt. Priyanka and induction of the founders

back into board of directors. Later on it came to light that

on 06.03.2015 itself, Madhukar Angur had given a false 24 complaint against all of them alleging that they took away

certain documents and deposited certain amounts in his

bank account to show as if they had purchased shares from

him; he alleged forgery, but the police filed 'C' report in

respect of this complaint. 10. Thus the company was reconstituted with Shri.

Abhay Chebbi, Sri. Prakash Siddappa , Smt. Shaila Chebbi

and Smt. Mala Gowda as it directors. But on 13.04.2015,

Madhukar Angur made another false police complaint

alleging forgery of his digital signature in relation to

uploading. He also got filed a suit, O.S.No.3395/2015,

seeking certain declaratory reliefs through his aid Mr.

Rajendradu, against the founders and Shaila Chebbi, Mala

Madikeri, Abhay Chebbi and Prakash Siddappa. No relief

was granted in the suit. He also got filed two more

complaints from Priyanka and Krishna Mohan Ramaneni.

The Anekal Police registered those complaints and then filed

charge sheets also in connection with offences punishable

under Sections 65 , 66(B) , 71 , 73 and 74 of the Information

Technology Act and Sections 465, 468, 469, 471, 474, 476 25 read with Section 34 of IPC. Later on these charge sheets

were quashed by the High Court. 11. It is further pleaded that in spite of all these

transactions, Madhukar Angur continued as Chancellor of

the University, his removal was kept pending as legal advice

was sought in this regard. Suspecting malafide action from

him, and learning that he had made a complaint to ROC, a

suit O.S.No.25382/2015 was filed by the company, the

founders and the newly inducted directors against the ROC,

the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Madhukar Angur and

others. In the said suit an interim injunction restraining

ROC from making any changes was passed. In the

meantime, settlement talks were held, and in this

background, an undertaking was given before the court

where O.S.25382/2015 was pending, stating that no

uploading to the portal of ROC would be made without

permission of the court. Madhukar also agreed for

withdrawing the suit O.S.No.3395/2015. Therefore the

uploading made by the founders stayed as it was. But

pursuant to false complaint made by Madhukar Angur, the 26 ROC issued show cause notice to the founders on

07.05.2015 regarding sustainability of uploadings. 12. Madhukar Angur also obtained the signatures of

Abhay Chebbi and Prakash Siddappa on 2 set of stereo type

letters and submitted them to ROC, seeking to cancel the

uploading (SRN) of appointment of Directors. Based on the

said letters, the ROC cancelled the SRN on technical grounds

and directed the founders, Abhay Chebbi and Prakash

Siddappa to upload the papers anew. This was part of

settlement and clearing process, and the next item was to

withdraw O.S.No.3395/2015. The founders, on the legal

advice given to them decided to withdraw their suit

O.S.No.25382/2015 in order to file a fresh suit. On

05.02.2016, they filed O.S.No.1094/2016 for injunction

against Madhukar Angur and others to restrain them from

interfering with management of the company. They also

decided to initiate disciplinary proceedings against

Madhukar Angur. 13. It is pleaded that one Dr. Usha Madalli also made

a complaint against Madhukar Angur alleging rape and

severe mental harassment of her psychologically weak

daughter. In O.S.No.1094/2016, the court granted an ad

interim injunction restraining Madhukar Angur and his

associates from interfering with affairs of the company.

Madhukar was also suspended from the post of

Chancellorship of the University. An enquiry committee was

appointed by the company (sponsoring body). Madhukar

Angur was asked to appear for enquiry on or before

05.03.2016. On 07.04.2016, by passing a detailed order, the

company, ie., the sponsoring body exercised authority under Section 11 of the Alliance University Act and dismissed

Madhukar Angur from the post of Chancellor. In the

meantime one Shreya Sanjiv, who had acquired the share

interest in the company by transfer of shares from Shivappa

Mantur, also filed a suit O.S.No.2911/2016 against

Madhukar Angur, and in the said suit, she impleaded the

founders as defendants. The court granted an interim

injunction against Madhukar Angur and others. On 28 15.04.2016, the Board of the Company appointed Sudhir

Angur as Additional Director. On 05.05.2016, Sudhir Angur

acquired shares to the extent of 26.4% by way of purchase

from Prakash Siddappa and Krishna Mohan Ramaneni.

Later, he was also appointed Director and Managing Director

of the company on 28.05.2016. Madhukar Angur filed one

more suit, O.S.No.3006/2016 against the founders of the

company and sought some interim orders by falsely claiming

as Chancellor. The said suit was opposed by the University

represented by its Registrar. The founders and other

Directors of the company, who were also arrayed as

defendants in the said suit, opposed the suit by filing

counter claim. 14. It is stated that after dismissal of Madhukar

Angur from the post of Chancellor, the sponsoring body

appointed Sudhir Angur as the Chancellor of the University.

The University filed a separate suit against Police Officials to

stop them from supporting Madhukar Angur, who got

himself impleaded in the said suit. Number of directions to

police were also issued in the said suit. In the meantime, 29 the government appointed a committee headed by Prof.

Savadatti to enquire into illegalities committed by Mr.

Madhukar Angur. But he did not participate before the

committee. It gave a report that Mr. Madhukar Angur was

guilty of misdeeds and embezzling of nearly 100 crores of

University funds. Since Madhukar Angur and his

supporters barged into university with huge gang of anti-

social elements, applications were filed in

O.S.No.25394/2016 seeking direction to police to remove

Madhukar Angur and his supporters from the university;

and the court, after hearing, ordered the police to afford

protection to the founders. Madhukar challenged the order

of temporary injunction granted in the O.S.No.2911/2016,

filed by Shreya Sanjeev, by filing an appeal, MFA 4187/2016

and obtained stay of the said order, but the said appeal was

dismissed. Before dismissal of the order, since there was an

order of stay, Madhukar Angur started interfering with

University activities, and therefore the staff members of the

University filed suit O.S.No.4540/2016 and obtained an

order of injunction. Mr. Madhusudan Misra, acting as the 30 Registrar of the University also filed a suit,

O.S.No.25699/2016 seeking an order of injunction against

Madhukar Angur and his aids. In the meantime Company

Appeal filed by Ravindra Reddy came to be dismissed by the

High Court holding that the parties could approach civil

court; the supreme court also dismissed the SLP(Civil) CC

4388/2017 and SLP(Civil) CC 8854/2017 filed by Ravindra

Reddy. The High Court also quashed all the FIR's and

charge sheets arising out of the complaints made by

Madhukar Angur and his wife. MFA 6011/2016 was also

dismissed observing that Madhukar Angur could not have

filed O.S.No.3011/2016 and allowed another MFA

6012/2016 which was filed challenging the order of

injunction granted in favour of founders. But the appeal

filed by Madhukar Angur, MFA 6346/2016 was allowed

observing that Madhusudhan Misra had not produced

proper authorization to file the suit O.S.No.25699/2016.

This Court also allowed MFA 6200/2016 filed by Madhukar

Angur on the ground that Shreya Sanjeev had no proper 31 locus to file the suit to protect the company and its

university. 15. Giving all these details, the plaintiff pleaded that

Madhukar Angur, his wife and aids breached the interim

orders on several occasions, by interfering with management

of plaintiff company though they were rank outsiders and

had no legal right to assert any right in the plaintiff

company. In the plaint some instances of interference made

by Madhukar Angur and other defendants are given. It is

also alleged that Madhukar Angur claiming to be Managing

Director and shareholder of the plaintiff company raised

loans in huge sums and gave number of signed documents

promising them a share in the University. He also tried to

tamper with the records in the office of ROC by taking some

of the officials in that office into confidence. Thus alleging

unlawful acts and interference by Madhukar Angur and

other defendants, the company filed the suit for the reliefs

aforementioned. Along with the plaint, they also filed

applications for temporary injunction, stating that they have

made out prima facie case; balance of convenience lies in 32 their favour and the company will suffer irreparable loss and

injury if temporary injunction is not granted. 16. The defendants' contentions are that the person

who has represented the company, Sri. Venkoba Gujjal is an

imposter. He is a fraud, and that he was also arrested by

CBI for committing offences during his earlier days. He has

no authority to represent the company. 17. In regard to allegations made against them by the

plaintiffs, it is stated that at no point of time Madhukar

Angur transferred his shares to anybody. He also did not

resign from the company. Documents were created to show

that he transferred his shares and that he also resigned from

the company. Therefore he filed complaint before Registrar

of Companies on 14.03.2016 seeking to initiate action

against those who were involved in creation of false

documents. It is stated that the defendants are not

outsiders. The truth in all other paragraphs of the affidavits

filed by the plaintiff is denied. They state that the present

suit is nothing but misuse and abuse of process of law. In 33 the other suits also, same pleas are taken, therefore it is not

necessary to refer to them here. 18. For allowing the applications for temporary

injunction in the suits O.S.No.5148/2017 and

O.S.No.3932/2017, the trial court has recorded the following

reasons : b) The documents produced by the plaintiff show that

 Madhukar Angur transferred 63700 shares to Abhay

 Chebbi, and 58800 shares to Mala Gowda. Likewise

 Priyanka B.S. transferred 56000 shares to Prakash

 Siddappa and 51500 shares to Shivappa Mantur.

 There are documents which show passing of

 consideration amount to Madhukar Angur and

 Priyanka. Plaintiff has produced documents showing

 resignation of Priyanka in a Board meeting held on

 11.04.2015, and this resignation was accepted on

 13.04.2015, these transactions were uploaded to the 34 portal of ROC. But in regard to these transactions,

 Madhukar Angur, Priyanka and Krishna Mohan

 Ramaneni filed complaints alleging forgery by

 misusing digital signatures and these complaints were

 quashed by the High Court. c) The plaintiff's stand that Madhukar Angur was

 terminated from the post of Chancellor is believable.

 On 07.04.2016, Madhukar Angur was dismissed from

 the post of Chancellor in accordance with Section 11 of the Alliance University Act and this dismissal was

 also informed to Government. In this regard,

 reference is made to order passed by this court in

 MFA 6011/2016 and MFA 6012/2016 in which is

 held that appointment of the first chancellor for life

 does not deprive the Sponsoring Body of its powers to

 terminate the services of its first chancellor if

 necessary. In view of this, Madhukar Angur's

 dismissal is valid and legal. Madhukar Angur filed a

 suit O.S.3395/2015 and later on he did not press this 35 suit; it was dismissed. Therefore, Madhukar Angur is

 no more Chancellor of the University. d) Sudhir Angur was appointed as the Chancellor on

 15.04.2016. His appointment is not disputed by

 Madhukar Angur and his other defendants. Dismissal

 of Madhukar Angur and appointment of Sudhir Angur

 were made by the Sponsoring Body after passing

 resolutions which are not challenged by Madhukar

 Angur. O.S.No.25699/2016 for the same relief is not tenable.

 Cause of action to initiate suit for injunction is

 recurring. The plaintiff's have complied with all the

 observations made by this court in MFA 6343/2016,

 the university represented by its Registrar has filed

 the suit. f) The court has to assess the existence of prima facie

 case on the basis of pleadings and materials placed by

 the parties. Therefore, the website of ROC shows that 36 on the date of suit, Sudhir Angur is the Managing

 Director and Shaila Chebbi, Mala Gowda, Krishna

 Mohan Ramaneni, Prakash Siddappa and Abhay

 Chebbi were the other Directors. The defendants

 dispute these uploading to the portal and they have

 made complaints also. But the ROC cannot look into

 the complaint made by Madhukar Angur, as it is held

 by the Company Law Board in a company petition,

 COP 10/2015, preferred by Ravindra Reddy that title

 dispute can be decided by a Civil Court only. g) Madhukar Angur withdrew the suit O.S.3395/2015.

 This shows that Sudhir Angur became the Managing

 Director and Shaila Chebbi, Mala Gowda and others

 became the directors. Resignation of Madhukar Angur

 and his wife cannot be ignored. Transfer of shares by

 them cannot also be ignored. h) The contention that in view of cancellation of

 uploading of transfer of shares by the ROC, the

 defendants' position as Directors and shareholders of

 the company was restored, cannot be accepted. 37 Though this contention has logic, it can be

 appreciated only after full fledged trial. Filing of

 papers with ROC is just an incidental act and it would

 not alter whatever that had happened, the resignation

 would operate from the date of its tender. Withdrawal

 of O.S.3395/2015 has its own effect as it was suit for

 declaration with regard to status of Shaila Chebbi,

 Mala Gowda, Prakash Siddappa and Abhay Chebbi as

 shareholders of the company. Madhukar Angur did

 not reserve right to file fresh suit on the same cause of

 action. Since it has reached finality, the said persons

 are the present Directors. i) The contention that civil court has no jurisdiction has

 no force at all. Civil court has jurisdiction. In COMPA.

 8/2016, it is held that Civil Court has jurisdiction. Section 430 of the Companies Act is not a bar. Civil

 court has jurisdiction to entertain injunction suits.

 Venkoba Gujjal has locus standi to file the suit as he

 is authorized to represent the company. j) It is stated that first defendant is the Chancellor of

 Alliance University, this shows that defendants are

 interfering with day to day affairs of Alliance

 University. The plaintiffs have demonstrated

 interference, and thus prima facie case is made out.

 Balance of convenience lies in favour of plaintiff and if

 temporary injunction is not granted, irreparable loss

 would be caused to the plaintiff. 19. In O.S.4202/2016, the plaintiffs are Alliance

Business School, Sudhir Angur and others; They sought

temporary injunction to restrain the defendants namely,

Registrar of Companies and others from making the

company 'Alliance Business School' as "Management Dispute

Company" in their records and 'WEB PORTAL'. An exparte

order of temporary injunction, which had been granted at

the threshold, was vacated upon an application made by the

defendants under Order XXXIX Rule 4 CPC . The trial court

vacated the interim order, mainly on the ground that much

before suit was filed, on 02.06.2016 itself Registrar of

Companies had already marked, 'Management dispute' with 39 respect to Alliance Business School. The trial court has

observed that the suit was infructuous though it has upheld

the other pleas taken by the plaintiffs in this suit as regards

transfer of shares by Madhukar Angur and his wife and

dismissal of Madhukar Angur from Chancellorship of the

University. 20. Assailing the findings of the trial court, senior

counsel appearing for the appellants and the respondents in

all the appeals addressed lengthy arguments. The learned

counsel, Sri. K.G.Raghavan appearing for appellants in MFA

8545/2017 and MFA 8554/2017 produced some documents

along with an application under Order 41 Rule 27 CPC , the

senior counsel appearing for respondents said no objection

for this application. Therefore these documents are taken on

record. They will be referred to at appropriate stage. 21. The main points urged by Sri. K.G.Raghavan are : 22. Sri. Vivek Reddy, senior counsel appearing for

appellants in MFA 8562/2017 raised the following points: 23. By Sri. B.V.Acharya i) Registrar of Companies invalidated the transfer

 of shares because of technical defects pointed

 out by him, they were cured. This does not

 mean that invalidity was accepted and rights

 over the shares were given up. ii) Allegation of fraud in transfer of shares is the

 modus operandi of Madhukar Angur. Based on

 an opinion given by a private handwriting

 expert, charge sheet was filed. Order of High

 Court in W.P.19462-19467/2016 makes this

 position clear. iii) High Court observed that suit should have been

 filed by the University. The injunction order in

 the suit was in force for more than a year. He

 was validly appointed as registrar on

 16.08.2016. iv) The first Chancellor of the university can also be

 removed, lifetime Chancellor does not mean that

 he cannot be removed. On 11.02.2016, notice

 was issued to Madhukar Angur for his removal.

 He did not reply. An enquiry was held thereafter

 and report was given. Madhukar Angur was

 terminated, he did not challenge this order.

 Therefore he cannot claim administration over

 university. v) Government ordered another enquiry by Prof.

 Savadatti against Madhukar Angur. Except on

 one date he did not appear before this enquiry

 committee. This report might have been

 challenged in a writ petition, but the conduct of

 Madhukar Angur can be noticed. vi) From 12.04.2016 to 16.05.2017, order of

 injunction was in force against Madhukar

 Angur. During this period the present suits are

 filed after curing defects which were pointed out

 by the High Court. If the management of the 47 university was taken in violation of temporary

 injunction order, it cannot be accepted, it is

 illegal. vii) The trial court has rightly held that the plaintiffs

 have made out prima-facie case. Balance of

 convenience must be appreciated taking into

 consideration the aspects such as,-interest of

 the students, Madhukar Angur not challenging

 his removal, enquiry committees giving reports

 against his moral turpitude. viii) In an appeal under Order 43 CPC , there cannot

 be interference with trial court's order unless the

 order challenged appears to be capricious and

 arbitrary, and direction has not been exercised

 properly. Even if two views are possible, the

 trial court's order should not be disturbed. 24. Adopting the argument of Sri. B.V.Acharya, the

learned senior counsel submitted that Madhukar Angur

wanted to get impleaded in the suit O.S.7502/2016, his

application was dismissed. In the said order it is observed

that Sudhir Angur is in-charge of the university. He also

referred to an order passed in O. S.373 /2017 and submitted

that the ad interim injunction order was later on confirmed. 25. Sri. D.N.Nanjunda Reddy, another senior counsel

appearing for one of the respondents adopted the argument

of Sri. B.V.Acharya and Sri. Jaya Kumar S. Patil. 26. I have considered every point of argument.

Though the plaints in all the suits run into several pages, de

hors the rules of pleadings, the case of plaintiffs in a nutshell

is that Madhukar Angur, his wife and other defendants were

outsiders to the company, and its university, on the day the

suits were filed. According to them, Madhukar Angur and 49 his wife had transferred their shares in the company;

Madhukar Angur was also removed from the post of

Chancellor; and thus they having severed their relationship

with the company and the University, tried to interfere. The

plaintiffs also lay emphasis on withdrawal of suit

O.S.3395/2015 by Madhukar Angur. 27. Before taking up discussion, I must keep in my

mind that these appeals have emerged from the orders of

the trial court on application for temporary injunction.

Interference in the trial court's order is not permitted unless

it is found that the trial court, has exercised its discretion

arbitrarily and capriciously, unmindful of well established

principles. The learned Senior Counsel Sri. B.V.Acharya

referred to a classical judgment of this court in

Lakshminarasimhaih & Others vs Yalakki Gowda (ILR

1965 MYS 40) which deals with scope of interference in

appeal against trial court's order on application for

temporary injunction. Sri. Vivek Reddy, one of the Senior

Counsel for the appellants has also referred to judgment of

Rajasthan High Court in Smt. Vimla Devi Vs. Jang 50 Bahadur (1977 SCC online Raj 16) on the same point.

There is no need to cull out the views expressed in these

judgments, as the principles as to scope of appeals before me

are now well settled and have stood the test of time. 28. The trial court, has in its order observed that the

real dispute started after the meeting held on 04.03.2015

and that facts become unclear as both the sides, the plaintiff

and defendants have different versions. This observation is

correct; there are too many suits and too many documents

which only show mudslinging at each other at the cost of the

institution. 29. One limb of argument of Sri. K.G.Raghavan that a

company cannot maintain a suit between or among

shareholders with regard to transfer of or title over shares, is

acceptable. But his endeavour to bring these suits within

the ambit of that nature is difficult to be accepted. No

doubt, in the plaints, it has been pleaded about transfer of

shares from Madhukar Angur and his wife in favour of Smt.

Shaila Chebbi, Smt. Mala Gowda, Sri. Abhay Chebbi and Sri. 51 Prakash Siddappa, and controversy surrounding it; these

pleas in my view do not bar the suits. What can be seen is

plaintiffs' attempt to state that owing to transfer of shares,

Madhukar Angur and his wife lost all their interest in the

company, and yet their interference continued. Looked from

this angle, suit for injunction is maintainable. Section 430 of the Companies Act is not a bar. From the

respondents/plaintiffs side reliance has been placed to a

decision of this court in Mr.Ravindra Veersingh and

another vs. TBH Breweries India Pvt. Ltd, (MFA

475/2015 and connected appeals). In this judgment, it is

clearly held as below. 30. It may be that dispute with regard to transfer of

shares is pending before National Company Law Tribunal,

but in the background of allegations of interference made

against defendants, the suits are maintainable. 31. Learned senior counsel Sri K.G.Raghavan and Sri

Vivek Reddy, argued very much focusing on the point of

fraud played by the plaintiffs in the matter of transfer of

shares by Mahdukar Angur and his wife. They have placed

reliance on the reported judgments of the Bombay High

Court in Maneklal Marsukhbhai Private Limited vs Ajay

Harinath Singh [2015 SCC online Bom 5571] and two

judgments of the Supreme Court in State of Orissa and

Another vs Faklur Charansethi [( 2015) 1 SCC 466] and

S.P.Chengalvaraya Naidu (dead) by L.Rs vs Jagannath (dead) by LRs and others [(1994) 1 SCC 1. In all these 53 judgments, the principle laid down basically is that fraud

vitiates everything. Surely, temporary injunction can be

denied, if it is apparently possible to make out fraud from

the materials placed before the court. 32. Madhukar Angur and his wife allege fraud. In

this case Madhukar Angur and his wife dispute transfer of

their shares and uploading made to the portal of Registrar of

Companies consequent to transfer; it is alleged that

signatures of Madhukar Angur and Krishna Mohan

Ramaneni were forged to create their resignation letters. It is

also alleged that the plaintiffs fraudulently obtained digital

signature certificate. The appellants' counsel referred to

show cause notice dated 7.5.2015 issued by Registrar of

Companies to Alliance Business School, Abhay Govind

Chebbi, Prakash Siddappa, Mala S Gowda and Shaila

Chebbi. In this show cause notice, it is mentioned that the

Registrar of Companies received credible information that

certain persons had fraudulently obtained digital signature

certificate of Madhukar Angur and submitted that forged

documents for appointing Abhay Govind Chebbi and 54 Prakash Siddappa as Directors of Alliance Business School.

In the background of his complaint, Registrar of Companies

issued show cause notice for reviewing the entries made in

DIR 12 Forms and restoring the position of directors as it

existed prior to filing of the required forms. 33. Documents are also produced to show that the

said four persons to whom Registrar of Companies issued

show cause notice wrote letters to Registrar of Companies

giving consent for invalidating DIR 12 Forms. There is

another document, a letter dated 8.6.2015, issued by

Registrar of Companies to Alliance Business School, which

shows that since e-forms were found to have been filed

defectively, they were marked 'INVALID' and the Company,

i.e., Business School was asked to submit e-forms afresh

within 30 days. 34. The above documents show that uploadings were

invalidated. The argument of Sri K.G.Raghavan was that

subsequent to invalidation of e-forms, there was no fresh

filing; therefore the position of directions as it stood before 55 5.3.2015 was restored. But there are two documents. First

one is a letter dated 7.2.2016, written by Krishna Mohan

Ramaneni to the Board of Directors of the company which

shows that he wanted to withdraw his resignation letter

dated 5.3.2015 and continue as Director. The second is

Company Master Data, which shows the position of

Directors. According to this, beginning date of directorship

of Shaila Chebbi, Mala S Gowda, Prakash Siddappa and

Abhay Govind Chebbi is shown as 30.9.2015, Krishna

Mohan Ramaneni as 5.3.2009 and Sudhir Angur as

15.4.2016. 35. It may be relevant to mention here that on

7.3.2015 the Registrar of Companies issued show cause

notices to only four persons, not to Sudhir Angur and

therefore his name also appears in the Company Master

Data. Krishna Mohan Ramaneni's name also continued

probably due to withdrawal of his resignation letter. If after

invalidation of e-forms, on 8.6.2015, the names of other

four directors came to be shown again w.e.f. 30.9.2015, they

might have been taken as directors. It was argued that 56 Krishna Mohan Ramaneni defected from Madhukar Angur's

group to Sudhir Angur's group to continue as Director. If

this is the reason, it has to be established by the appellants

by placing cogent evidence, it cannot be considered at this

stage. Therefore, the position of Directors of the company,

as depicted in 'Company Master Data' can be considered. 36. Madhukar Angur also lodged a complaint to

Anekal Police in regard to forgery of signatures and making

use of fraudulent digital signature certificates. It was argued

that complaint was made by obtaining report from a private

handwriting expert and that the charge sheet filed by police

was quashed by this court in W.P. 19462-19466/2016.

While the counsel appearing for respondents refer to this

order to garner support for their argument that quashing the

charge sheet shows that there was no fraud, the learned

counsel appearing for appellants make use of the very same

order to fortify their argument that the dispute falls within

the exclusive jurisdiction of National Company Law Tribunal.

Learned counsel for the respondents also submitted that the

dictionary meaning of the word 'quash' is to annul or to 57 make void. Reliance is also placed on the judgment of the

Supreme Court in Shree Chamundi Mopeds Limited vs

Church of South India Trust Association [(1992) 3 SCC

1] wherein a distinction has been made between 'quashing

of an order' and 'staying of an order'. It is held that

quashing results in restoration of the position as it stood on

the date of passing of the order which has been quashed;

and the stay of an order does not lead to this result. To this

argument, Sri K.G.Raghavan replied that Special Leave

Petition has been filed before the Supreme Court questioning

the order in writ petition. 37. Regarding this controversy, it has to be opined

that the moment charge sheet was quashed by this court in

writ petition, the position is as if there was no charge sheet,

the complaint made by Madhukar Angur obviously lost

value. Till the Hon'ble Supreme Court gives its decision in

the matter pending before it, the position as it stands holds

the field. Therefore, the entire argument on fraud cannot be

appreciated at this stage. Moreover, while deciding an

application for temporary injunction, no finding on fraud can 58 be given, especially when facts and circumstances are so

complex, it is better to decide that issue after recording

evidence. 38. The next point that needs to be considered is

withdrawal of the suit O.S.3395/2015. It was argued on

behalf of respondents that the withdrawal of the suit

estopped Madhukar Angur and his wife from contending that

they were Directors of the company, and on behalf of

appellants that the said suit was not filed by Madhukar

Angur, its withdrawal did not affect their interest at all. The

trial court has given a finding that the withdrawal of the suit

can be considered to be a valid ground for granting

temporary injunction. 39. I have perused the plaint in O.S.3395/2015. The

suit was filed by Alliance Business School represented by

Chief Finance Officer Mr. Rajendradu. Mr. Madhukar Angur

executed a power of attorney on 06.04.2015 in his name and

on behalf of Alliance Business School authorizing 59 Rajendradu to institute the suit. The reliefs claimed in the

suit are:- 40. If the plaint is read, it becomes very clear that

although suit was filed by Alliance Business School, the

averments revolve around transfer of shares. The company

i.e., Alliance Business School has batted in favour of

Madhukar Angur. Sri. K.G.Raghavan argued that Sudhir

Angur is behind the suits which have given rise to these

appeals. If this argument is acceptable, it can be extended

to O.S.3395/2015 also to opine that it was Madhukar Angur

who was behind the said suit. For this reason unconditional

withdrawal of the suit has the consequences of dislodging

Madhukar Angur's contentions. 41. The next point is removal of Madhukar Angur

from the post of Chancellor of the university. He was the

first Chancellor appointed for life according to Section 15 of

the Alliance University Act. In MFA 6011/2016 c/w MFA

6012/2016, this court has interpreted section 15 of the

Alliance University Act and held that the sponsoring body is

not deprived of its powers to terminate the services of first

Chancellor if necessary. In the appointment letter issued to

Madhukar Angur, on 16.09.2010, condition No.6 very clearly

states that the sponsoring body has reserved its rights to

terminate the services of the Chancellor as a part of

disciplinary action. 42. From the respondents' side, some documents are

produced to show that Madhukar Angur was terminated

from the post of Chancellor of the university. 43. Before terminating him, he was kept under

suspension. This is evidenced by order of suspension-cum-

notice for explanation dated 11.02.2016. This was

communicated to Madhukar Angur. There is another 61 document, ie., a letter dated 03.03.2016 which shows that

Madhukar Angur was called upon to appear before the

committee on 05.03.2016 for enquiry with regard to charges

of financial irregularity committed by him. He did not

appear on that date. One more letter was addressed to him

that he should appear on 07.03.2016. It appears that he did

not appear. Therefore, committee gave a report that

Madhukar Angur had committed financial irregularities to

the tune of over Rs. 128 crores. Ultimately, the Board took a

decision to terminate Madhukar Angur and an order to this

effect was passed on 7.4.2016. This document has been

produced. Copy of this order was also submitted to

Governor of Karnataka. Therefore, the argument of Sri.

K.G.Raghavan that there is no proof for removal of

Madhukar Angur is not accepted. Madhukar Angur has not

challenged this order. Once he was terminated, his

relationship with the university came to be severed. The trial

court's finding in this regard is correct. 44. In addition to the enquiry held by the committee

constituted by the company, the Government of Karnataka 62 also appointed a Commission of Enquiry chaired by

Professor I.M.Savadatti, former Vice Chancellor of

Mangaluru University. Mr. Madhukar Angur appeared

before this Commission of Enquiry on only one date ie.,

25.08.2016, he did not appear thereafter at all. This has

been observed so in the report. This Commission of Enquiry

also found financial irregularities committed by Madhukar

Angur to the extent of Rs.96,87,62,996/-. He may have

challenged this report by filing a writ petition, but the two

reports cannot be ignored to opine at this stage that

allegations made by the plaintiffs in the plaints are not

unfounded and baseless. There is no suppression of facts as

argued by Sri. Raghavan. In the plaint reference is made to

Professor. Savadatti Commission Report. The argument of

Sri. K.G.Raghavan that the plaintiffs should have also stated

about writ petition filed by Madhukar Angur cannot be

accepted. 45. In regard to value to be attached to the report

given by a commission of enquiry, Sri. K.G.Raghavan argued

that the report has no binding force; the government 63 appoints a commission for obtaining information. It is just a

fact finding body, its report is not decisive. In this context

he referred to judgments of the Supreme Court in ( 1) DR.

BALIRAM WAMAN HIRAY vs JUSTICE B. LENTIN AND

OTHERS [(1988) 4 SCC 419]; ( 2) SUBRAMANIAN SWAMY

vs ARUN SHOURIE [( 2014) 12 SCC 344] and (3) SHRI RAM

KRISHNA DALMIA vs JUSTICE S.R.TENDOLKAR AND

OTHERS (AIR 1958 SC 538). 46. Conceding to this argument, I think it necessary

to state that this report may be looked into for the limited

purpose of commenting on the conduct of Sri. Madhukar

Angur, who is opposing the grant of temporary injunction.

In this context it is essential to state that not only the party

who seeks equitable relief of injunction should approach

with clean hands, but also the person who opposes the

application for injunction. His conduct should be blemish

less; if it is found that his conduct is tainted, particularly

with regard to subject matter of the dispute, he has no right

to oppose. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in GUJARAT

BOTTLING COMPANY LIMITED AND OTHERS vs COCO 64 COLA COMPANY AND OTHERS [(1995) 5 SCC 545] has

held as below. "47. In this context, it would be relevant to
 mention that in the instant case GBC had
 approached the High Court for the injunction
 order, granted earlier, to be vacated. Under order
 39 of the Code of Civil Procedure , jurisdiction of
 the Court to interfere with an order of
 interlocutory or temporary injunction is purely
 equitable and, therefore, the Court, on being
 approached, will, apart from the considerations,
 also look to the conduct of the party invoking the
 jurisdiction of the Court, and may refuse to
 interfere unless his conduct was free from blame.
 Since the relief is wholly equitable in nature, the
 party invoking the jurisdiction of the court has to
 show that he himself was not at fault and that he
 himself was not responsible for bringing about
 the state of things complained of and that he was
 not unfair or inequitable in his dealings with
 the party against whom he was seeking relief.
 His conduct should be fair and honest. These
 considerations will arise not only in respect of the
 person who seeks an order of injunction under
 order 39 Rule 1 or Rule 2 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure , but also in respect of the party 65 approaching the Court for vacating the ad-
 interim or temporary injunction order already
 granted in the pending suit or proceedings." (underlining by me) 47. If the above principle is applied, Madhukar Angur

and his wife, who opposed the applications for temporary

injunction in the court below and have now invoked the

appellate jurisdiction of the court, do not appear to be fair in

their transactions with the company and its university. 48. With regard to suit O.S.No.3932/2017, filed by

Alliance University, it was argued by learned senior counsel

Sri. Vivek Reddy that the said suit is not maintainable as

one Madhusudhan Misra has represented the university in

the capacity of Registrar. His argument was that the Alliance University Act provides for a procedure for making

appointments to the posts of Vice Chancellor and Registrar.

Since Sudhir Angur's appointment as Chancellor was illegal,

Vice Chancellor appointed by him was illegal and

consequently appointment of Registrar by the Vice

Chancellor was also illegal. This argument cannot be 66 accepted. Madhukar Angur's continuation as chancellor has

no proof, rather there is proof for his termination. Sudhir

Angur was appointed as Chancellor subsequently. Hence,

Madhusudhan Misra's appointment as Registrar cannot be

said to be bad. 49. Sri. K.G.Raghavan stressed the point that when

things become unclear from a certain date, or if a lis can be

said to have commenced from a certain date, it is better to

restore the status which stood at a disputed point of time;

and in this case, since 04.03.2015 was the date on which

Sudhir Angur and his group would say that Madhukar

Angur and his wife transferred their shares, restoration of

position before 04.03.2015 serves the interest of institution

and therefore the order of temporary injunction needs to be

vacated. In support of his argument, he has placed reliance

on the judgment of the Supreme Court in SKYLINE

EDUCATION INSTITUTE (INDIA) PRIVATE LIMITED vs.

S.L.VASMANI AND ANOTHER [( 2010) 2 SCC 142] and

N.R.DONGRE AND OTHERS vs WHIRLPOOL

CORPORATION AND ANOTHER [(1996) 5 SCC 714]. This 67 argument was seriously opposed by the senior counsel

appearing for all the respondents. Their contention was that

the shares were legally transferred and Madhukar Angur was

legally removed from the post of Chancellor. The dispute

started when he tried to interfere with affairs of university.

The position as on the date of suit was that Sudhir Angur

was the chancellor. Sri. B.V.Acharya referred to judgment of

the Supreme Court in M.GURUDAS AND OTHERS vs

RASARANJAN AND OTHERS [(2006) 8 SCC 367]. 50. In SKYLINE EDUCATION INSTITUTE (supra),

what is held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court is,

 "19. We have thoughtfully considered the
 entire matter. Before pronouncing upon the
 tenability or otherwise of the appellant's prayer
 for restraining the respondents from using the
 word `Skyline' for the Institute of Engineering
 and Technology established by them, we
 consider it necessary to observe that as the suit
 filed by the appellant is pending trial and issues
 raised by the parties are yet to be decided, the
 High Court rightly considered and decided the
 appellant's prayer for temporary injunction only 68 on the basis of the undisputed facts and the
 material placed before the learned Single Judge
 and unless this Court comes to the conclusion
 that the discretion exercised by the High Court in
 refusing to entertain the appellant's prayer for
 temporary injunction is vitiated by an error
 apparent or perversity and manifest injustice
 has been done to it, there will be no warrant for
 exercise of power under Article 136 of the
 Constitution." 51. N.R.Dongre case (supra) also postulates a

principle as under :- 52. In Gurudas (supra), it is held as below :- 53. It is clear from the rulings of the Supreme Court

in Skyline Education Institute and N.R. Dongre (supra)

that the application for temporary injunction requires

adjudication on the basis of undisputed facts and material

placed before Court. It is here that I would like to state that

undisputed facts take the meaning what not one party

admits to his or her advantage. Indeed to a certain date the

plaintiff and the defendant agree to a particular status; and

if a particular transaction is disputed by one of the parties, it

does not mean, as has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Gurudas (supra), that the Court cannot make any 70 endeavour with reference to materials placed before it by

both side parties to give a finding whether a particular

transaction is really disputable. If it is possible to say that

the materials on record lead to draw an inference for the

purpose of deciding the application for temporary injunction,

an order for maintenance of that status can definitely be

passed. If the case on hand is examined, though Madhukar

Angur disputes transfer of shares and his termination from

the post of Chancellor, the materials placed before the Court

shows that on the date of suit, his and his wife's shares had

been transferred and that he was removed from Chancellor

post. This was the position on the date of suit. In fact

dispute regarding title over shares is beyond the scope of the

suits. Therefore the argument of Sri. K.G. Raghavan that

status on or before 04.03.2015 should have been ordered to

be maintained cannot be accepted. 54. The defendants have contended that the

University was under their Management, that there are

documents to show that convocation was held under the

Chancellorship of Madhukar Angur, even after the alleged 71 transaction of transfer of shares and removal of Madhukar

Angur from the post of Chancellorship. It was also argued

that Madhukar Angur transacted with banks in relation to

the Company and the University. This argument is

controverted by all the learned Senior Counsel appearing for

plaintiffs; they argued that if convocation and bank

transactions were there, they cannot be recognized as they

were done during the time interim order was in force against

defendants. 55. In MFA.No.8545/2017, the appellant Madhukar

Angur has filed an application under Order 41 Rule 27 CPC seeking production of some documents which were not

produced before trial court. The main document produced is

copy of the petition filed under Section 241 and Section 59 of

the Companies Act. It is quite clear as to why this document

is produced. It is for the purpose of demonstrating the

dispute with regard to transfer of shares and their

uploading. I have already discussed irrelevancy of this

controversy. The other documents are copies of order

passed by trial court on I.A. 3 and I.A.4 filed in 72 O.S.No.5148/2017. Some documents relate to writ

proceedings. Even if these documents are considered, they

do not better the case of the appellant/defendants. 56. The net result of above discussion is that the

findings of the trial court that the plaintiffs have made out

prima facie case are sustainable. When an inference

apparently can be drawn that the Company as also the

University are in a position to treat Madhukar Angur and his

wife as outsiders they can certainly maintain injunction

suits for the purpose of stopping their interference. The very

tenor of contest by Madhukar Angur and his wife shows

their inclination to interfere in the affairs of the Company

and the University. Thus a prima facie case is made out. 57. So far as balance of convenience and irreparable

injury are concerned, in the facts and circumstances of the

present case, it is not the convenience of the parties or the

injury to them to be considered; these two aspects must be

considered in the perspective of the students studying in the

University and the staff working there. These suits and 73 earlier suits only show fight between two groups for gaining

control over the company and the University, enormous

inflow of the money is the real reason. While deciding

MFA.No.6011/2016 and connected appeal, it was opined by

the learned judge of this court that real fight is between two

real brothers over the management of the University, but

real victims of this in fight are the students. Therefore in the

interest of the students and the employees including

teaching staff, the impugned orders granting temporary

injunction in favour of the plaintiffs need to be confirmed. 58. If convocation was held and bank transactions

were made during the period interim order was in force, no

significance can be given to them. From these acts and

transactions as also from additional documents produced by

the defendants, even if it is possible to take a view favourable

to Madhukar Angur and his group, interference with

impugned orders is not permitted as plaintiffs' case also

appears to be probable. Discretion exercised by the trial

court judge based on records and circumstances appears to

be justifiable. 59. MFA.No.8356/2017 filed by the company also

does not deserve to be allowed. In the suit

O.S.No.4202/2016 filed by the Company, it filed an

application for temporary injunction to restrain the ROC

from marking in the portals of his office that it is a

management dispute company. The trial court dismissed

the application, giving the reason that on the date of suit, it

was already marked "Management Dispute". To this effect

there was also an observation by this Court in

COMPA.No.8/2016. It is held that suit is infructuous.

There is no infirmity in this conclusion. 60. But the dismissal of the application in the said

suit, it was argued by Sri K.G. Raghavan and Sri. Vivek

Reddy, that it should have been taken into consideration to

hold that the contentions taken by Madhukar Angur were

not unfounded. This argument is not acceptable. Mere

marking "Management Dispute" does not take away the

effect of one plea of the plaintiffs that Madhukar Angur had

been removed from the post of Chancellor. 61. Therefore from the foregoing discussion, I come to

conclusion that all the appeals should fail. They are

dismissed, no order as to costs. Sd/- JUDGE

ckl