Hon'ble Mr. Dinesh Singh, Presiding Member 1.     This Appeal has been filed under Section 19 of The Consumer Protection  Act, 1986, hereinafter referred to as the 'Act', impugning the Order dated 19.12.2014 in C.C. No. 45 of 2010 passed by The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Punjab, hereinafter referred to as the 'State Commission'. The Appellants herein, Punjab National Bank, were the Opposite Parties before the State Commission, and are hereinafter being referred to as the 'Bank'. The Respondent herein, Leader Valves Ltd., was the Complainant before the State Commission, and is hereinafter being referred to as the 'Complainant'. 2.     Heard learned Counsel for the Bank and the Complainant, and perused the material on record including inter alia the impugned Order dated 19.12.2014 of the State Commission and the Memorandum of Appeal. 3.     The short point for consideration is whether the Bank is liable for unauthorized transactions made in the Complainant's accounts when the Complainant / account-holder was not at fault and when the Complainant / account-holder brought the unauthorized transactions to the Bank's notice without undue delay. 4.     The facts have been succinctly articulated by the State Commission in paras 1 to 3 of its Order of 19.12.2014. The same are reproduced below: 5.     The State Commission vide its Order dated 19.12.2014 allowed the Complaint on contest. Extracts of the appraisal made by the State Commission are reproduced below for ready appreciation: (emphasis supplied)

 

(paras 17,18,19,20,21,22,23 and 24 of the State Commission's Order) 6.     It is an admitted fact that the Complainant was availing cash credit limit on three accounts, c/c ABC account, c/c Hypothecation account and c/c Book Debt account. 7.     It is well evinced that on 25.01.2010 unauthorized transfer of a sum of Rs. 40 lakh was made by debiting the Complainant's c/c Book Debt account. The said sum of Rs. 40 lakh was credited in some other accounts maintained with the same Bank. On timely intimation by the Complainant, the unauthorized transfer was detected, the accounts to which the said sum of Rs. 40 lakh was wrongly credited were identified, the erroneous entries were reversed, and, as such, except for time and trouble, the Complainant was not put to pecuniary loss or injury. 8.     It is also well evinced that on 25.01.2010 another sum of Rs. 26,48,500/- was unauthorizedly transferred from the Complainant's c/c ABC account. The said sum was credited in some other accounts maintained with the same Bank. Again on timely intimation by the Complainant, the unauthorized transfer was detected, the accounts to which the said sum of Rs. 26,48,500/- were  wrongly credited were identified. The erroneous entries in respect of Rs. 2,79,018/- were reversed, and, as such, except for time and trouble, the Complainant was not put to pecuniary loss or injury in respect of the said sum of Rs. 2,79,018/-. The residual sum of Rs.26,48,500 (-) Rs.2,79,018 = Rs.23,69,482/- could not be recovered, the erroneous entries in respect of the said Rs. 23,69,482/- were not reversed, and, as such, in addition to time and trouble, the Complainant was put to pecuniary loss and injury in respect of the said sum of Rs. 23,69,482/-. 9.     In such proven facts, the State Commission ordered that an amount of Rs.23,69,482/- be refunded with interest at the rate of 9% per annum from the date of withdrawal till the date of payment along with compensation of Rs. 1 lakh and cost of litigation of Rs. 21,000/-. 10.   The State Commission has passed a well-appraised and well-reasoned Order. Extracts of its appraisal, quoted in para 5 above, are, in particular, noteworthy. Its Award, quoted in para 9 above, is just and equitable. 11.   The first fundamental question that arises is whether the Bank is responsible for an unauthorized transfer occasioned by an act of malfeasance on the part of functionaries of the Bank or by an act of malfeasance by any other person (except the Complainant / account-holder). The answer, straightaway, is in the affirmative. If an account is maintained by the Bank, the Bank itself is responsible for its safety and security. Any systemic failure, whether by malfeasance on the part of its functionaries or by any other person (except the consumer / account-holder), is its responsibility, and not of the consumer. 12.   The second fundamental question that arises is whether the Bank is responsible for an unauthorized transfer due to any virus or hacking in the Bank's computerized system. The answer, straightaway, to this question also is in the affirmative. If an account is maintained by the Bank, the Bank itself is responsible for its safety and security. Any systemic failure, due to any virus or hacking in its computerized system, is its responsibility, and not of the consumer. 13.   It is seen that the Complainant, on his part, had been diligent and dutiful in bringing the unauthorized transfers to the notice of the Bank without undue delay, he brought the unauthorized transactions to the Bank's notice the same day, in the evening, on checking his accounts. His responsibility ended there, and the Bank's responsibility started, it was the Bank's responsibility to identify the systemic failure, remedy the pecuniary loss and injury to the Complainant. 14.   It is seen that the Complainant (i) had to register an FIR with the Police, (ii) was not provided CCTV footage by the Bank, (iii) had to engage the services of a private net security agency, etc. That is to say, the Complainant was put to unwarranted and undue trouble and prejudice, in effect, the burden was put on him to either resolve the Bank's deficient act, or, if not being so successful, to live with it. 15.   There is nothing on record to show that inquiry was conducted by the Bank to identify the man-made or systems' failure, or to fix responsibility, etc., when, Rs. 40 lakh + Rs. 2,79,018/- were unauthorizedly transferred and then recovered, and, when Rs. 23,69,482/- were unauthorizedly transferred and could not be recovered. 16.   There is nothing on record to show that the Complainant had himself made the concerned transfers, and that his averments of unauthorized transfers were malafide, an attempt at fraud, etc. Had it been so, the account-holders, in whose accounts the said sum of Rs. 40 lakh + Rs. 26,48,500/- had been transferred, and from whose accounts it was then recovered, would have come forth to agitate / object. None came forth. The Complainant lodged an FIR with the Police. The Police did not (repeat not) file any report under Section 177 of the I.P.C. (Furnishing false information) etc. The bonafide of the Complainant does not come under question. 17.   It was not for the Complainant to show whether the Bank's computerized system was affected by malware or any other virus, it was the Bank's job to keep its system clean and functional. It was not for the Complainant to show that hacking had been undertaken, it was the Bank's job to keep its system safe and secure. It was not for the Complainant to show malfeasance on the part of the Bank's functionaries or of any other person, it was the Bank's job to take the necessary action and to remedy the pecuniary loss and injury to the Complainant in case of malfeasance on the part of its functionaries or of any other person. 18.   The Bank's contentions suffer from irrationalities and inner-inconsistencies. It first argues that the Complainant himself had access to operate the concerned accounts, when, access or no access, it is not the Bank's case that the Complainant had himself made or authorized the said transactions, nowhere does the Bank argue that the Complainant himself was indulging in malfeasance or attempting fraud etc.

 

It then argues that it recovered Rs. 40 lakh + Rs. 2,79,018/- and reversed the erroneous entries. That being so, the factum of the transactions being erroneous stands accepted by the Bank. It then further argues that non-recovery of the residual Rs. 26,48,500 (-) Rs. 2,79,018 = Rs. 23,69,482/- is not its responsibility. This is an out-and-out erroneous contention, brazenly professed, an index of a misplaced notion of non-accountability. It is not the Bank's case that the Complainant committed fraud. The fraud being advocated by the Bank relates to its other account-holders in whose accounts the erroneous credits were made by the Bank and from whose accounts they could not be recovered. Qua the Complainant, the case is simple and straight, the Bank did not keep his accounts safe and secure, did not remedy the erroneous transfers on being diligently and dutifully so intimated by the Complainant. 19.   Rather than immediate remedy and apology, the Bank preferred an illogical nebulous proposition that if it could trace the unauthorized transactions and reverse the entries, so far so good, else, it was the Complainant's risk and cost, whether it was a man-made or systems' failure is inconsequential, whether the Complainant was not at fault is inconsequential, whether the Bank was at fault is inconsequential, the Bank has no responsibility, no accountability, the Bank is under no obligation to remedy the Complainant's pecuniary loss and injury. The entire spectrum of the Bank's acts, seen in the totality of the examination made by the State Commission and the critique made hereinabove by this Commission, in addition to being deficient within the meaning of Section 2(1)(g) & (o), is also unfair and deceptive as to unquestionably qualify to be 'unfair trade practice' within the meaning of Section 2(1)(r) of the Act. In respect of 'unfair trade practice', it may be noted that it is a specific provision unique to The Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . Section 2(1)(r) says of "a trade practice which, for the purpose of promoting the sale, use or supply of any goods or for the provision of any service, adopts any unfair method or unfair or deceptive practice including any of the following practices, namely:-". The list provided in Section 2(1)(r) is illustrative and not comprehensive. That is to say, an unfair method or unfair or deceptive practice, as is judiciously determined, on facts and reasons, on fair and objective appraisal of the evidence and material on record, would qualify as 'unfair trade practice' within the meaning of Section 2(1)(r) . 20.   The Appeal, being patently bereft of merit, is dismissed. The Award made by the State Commission in respect of 'deficiency in service' is confirmed. 21.   In respect of the ingredients of 'unfair trade practice', which are well and truly evinced, the Bank, through its Chief Executive, is put to stern advice of caution by imposition of cost of Rs. 1,00,000/- (rupees one lakh), to be deposited with the Consumer Legal Aid Account of the State Commission, within four weeks of the pronouncement of this Order. Its Chief Executive is also advised to conduct inquiry to fix responsibility as also to imbibe systemic improvements to avert such deficiency and unfairness in future qua 'consumers' in general. It will be open for the Bank to recover the amount of the Award made by the State Commission and the cost imposed herein by this Commission from its functionaries responsible and/or from the persons/account-holders etc. responsible. 22.   The amount deposited by the Bank with the State Commission in compliance of this Commission's Order dated 19.02.2015, along with interest, if any, accrued thereon, shall be utilized by the State Commission, as per the due procedure, towards satisfaction of its Award and of the cost imposed herein (refer para 20 and 21 above). 23.   A copy each of this Order be sent by the Registry to the State Commission, to the Chief Executive of the Bank, the Appellant herein, and to the Complainant, the Respondent herein, within three days of its pronouncement. ...................... DINESH SINGH PRESIDING MEMBER