1. Sri Pranab Mohanty - IPS, Director General of
 Police, who shall head the Team. 2. Sri Bhushan Gulab Rao Borase - IPS 3. Smt. Nisha James - IPS (iii) Mandamus issues to the 1st respondent/State
 Government to forthwith hand over the investigation to
 the Special Investigation Team aforesaid. (iv) The Investigating Officer shall transmit the entire
 papers of investigation, if any, conducted to the said
 Special Investigation Team. (v) The Special Investigation Team so constituted shall
 submit its report within 3 months, from the date it is
 constituted, and a copy of the same be placed before
 this Court thereafter. (vi) Copy of this order shall be furnished to, the Chief
 Secretary, Government of Karnataka; the Principal
 Secretary, Department of Home Affairs; the Director
 General and Inspector General of Police, Government of
 Karnataka, for the implementation of paragraph No.13
 of the order. (vii) The steps taken towards the implementation of the
 clause (vi) supra, shall from time to time be placed
 before the Court. (viii) List this matter on 02.07.2025 at 2.30 p.m., for
 further hearing. SD/- (M.NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE

bkp
CT:SS 31 MNPJ: W.P.No.8403/2025 02.05.2025

 CHAMBER ORDER

 This Court on 25.04.2025, passed the following order: (iv) The Investigating Officer shall transmit the
 entire papers of investigation, if any, conducted
 to the said Special Investigation Team. (v) The Special Investigation Team so constituted
 shall submit its report within 3 months, from
 the date it is constituted, and a copy of the
 same be placed before this Court thereafter. (vi) Copy of this order shall be furnished to, the
 Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka; the 32 Principal Secretary, Department of Home
 Affairs; the Director General and Inspector
 General of Police, Government of Karnataka, for
 the implementation of paragraph No.13 of the
 order. (vii) The steps taken towards the implementation of
 the clause (vi) supra, shall from time to time be
 placed before the Court. (viii) List this matter on 02.07.2025 at 2.30 p.m.,
 for further hearing." Four days later, the learned Additional Government Advocate

made a mention that one of the members - Smt. Nisha James,

I.P.S., of the Team i.e., Special Investigation Team, directed to be

constituted, is now been deputed to UNESCO and therefore, would

not be in a position to be a part of the team. The learned counsel for the petitioner has also filed a memo

to take on record the unavailability of Smt. Nisha James, I.P.S., as

a member of the SIT. The memo is taken on record. In the light of the unavailability of the Officer, I deem it

appropriate to replace the said Officer with one Sri Sharath M.D.,

Superintendent of Police - CID as the third member of the Special

Investigation Team, so constituted. Page No.32 is retyped and replaced vide chamber order dated 05.05.2025 33 Therefore, the members of the Special Investigation Team are

as follows: This order shall be treated as part and parcel of the main

order dated 25.04.2025. The Registry is directed to rescan the order and issue fresh

certified copy of the order forthwith. Sd/- (M. NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE

 Page No.33 is retyped and replaced vide chamber order dated 05.05.2025