1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) No. 98 of 2021

 . For the respondent: Mr. Vikas Rathour & Narender Guleria, Addl. Advocate
 Generals with Mr. Bhupinder Thakur & Divya Sood,

 Deputy Advocate Generals and Mr. Rajat Chauhan, Law
 Officer. For involvement in an online bank fraud, the accused, who is in custody w.e.f. 24.2.2020, has come up before this Court under Section 439 of CrPC, seeking bail,

 on the grounds that the he is in custody for a considerable time. Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? 2. Earlier, the petitioner had filed a petition under Section 439 CrPC before the

 concerned Sessions Court. However, vide order dated 15.10.2020 learned Sessions

 . Judge, Mandi HP, dismissed the petition because of the amount involved. After that,

 the petitioner filed a bail petition before this Court, which was registered as

 Cr.MP(M) No.2113 of 2020. Vide order dated 16.12.2020, the same was dismissed

 as withdrawn. 3. Para 11 of the bail petition and status report mentions the following criminal

 history: 4. Briefly, the allegations against the petitioner are that a complainant gave a

 written information to the police alleging therein about online net banking fraud. The

 allegations are that the complainant has two bank accounts in Punjab National Bank. From both these accounts, a sum of Rs.25,74,435/- has been withdrawn in his

 absence. The complainant has gone to the bank to withdraw a sum of Rs.10,000/-,

 however, he received a message that the amount had been withdrawn from his

 account. He inquired from the bank officials about it and he was told that the ATM

 machine sometimes mal-functions. He filed the complaint and after some days, he

 received a phone call from one Rahul Sharma, who stated that he is speaking from

 Head Office of Punjab National Bank. He asked him to disclose 16 digits pin

 number. He stated that it is required to register his complaint. After that, he did not

 receive any message. On 22.8.2019 when he enquired from the bank, he came to

 know that there is no money in his account. When the complainant visited the bank, ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:15:42 :::HCHP 3 the bank officials have asked him to register FIR. Based on this information, the

 police started inquiry. . 5. It came in the investigation that the petitioner had received a phone call from

 mobile No.7469980751. Investigation further revealed that an amount of

 Rs.25,74,435/- has been withdrawn from both the accounts of the complainant. The

 investigation further revealed that the mobile No.7469980751 was traced in West

 Bengal. The police got trails of transactions linked to PNB, Indian Post Payment

 Bank, IRCTC-Mudra, Citrus Pay etc. and all that led to deposit of the money in a

 private sector bank. Investigation further revealed involvement of another mobile

 No.8597590806. It further revealed the involvement of the bail petitioner in this

 online bank fraud. Based upon the investigation, the police arrested the accused and

 he is in judicial custody since 24.2.2020. 6. Mr. Rajiv Jiwan, learned senior Advocate, assisted by Mr. Ajit Sharma,

 Advocate for the petitioner contends that incarceration before the proof of guilt

 would cause grave injustice to the petitioner and family. He further states that they

 have placed on record Adhar Card, identity card issued by Election Commission of

 India and his account number details of HDFC Bank as identify documents of the

 petitioner and it shall be impossible for the petitioner to abscond or not to attend trial. 7. On the contrary, Mr. Vikas Rathour, learned Additional Advocate General

 contends that the accused is a proven habitual offender, and given his past conduct; he is likely to repeat the offence. He further insists that if this Court is inclined to

 grant bail, then such a bond must be subject to very stringent conditions. 8. In Sunny Kapoor v State of HP, CrMPM 2168 of 2020, (Para 30 & 31), this

 Court after considering the relevant judicial precedents observed that in reckoning ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:15:42 :::HCHP 4 the number of cases as criminal history, the prosecutions resulting in acquittal or

 discharge; or when Courts quashed the FIR; the prosecution stands withdrawn, or

 . Prosecution filed a closure report; cannot be included. The criminal history must be

 of cases where the accused was convicted, including the suspended sentences and all

 pending First Information Reports, wherein the bail petitioner stands arraigned as an

 accused. While considering each bail petition of the accused with a criminal history,

 it throws an onerous responsibility upon the Courts to act judiciously with

 reasonableness because arbitrariness is the antithesis of law. Although crime is to be

 despised and not the criminal, yet for a recidivist, the contours of a playing field are

 marshy, and graver the criminal history, slushier the puddles. 9. In the present case, the maximum sentence imposable for the offences

 mentioned in FIR attracts the application of the directions passed in Arnesh Kumar

 v. State of Bihar , (2014) 8 SCC 273, (Para 13), wherein Hon'ble Supreme Court

 directed all the State Governments to instruct its police officers not to arrest

 automatically when the offence is punishable with imprisonment for a term which

 may be less than seven years or which may extend to seven years; whether with or

 without fine. 10. The petitioner is in judicial custody for the last 11 months and he is aged 34

 years. Section 420 , IPC prescribes maximum imprisonment for a term of seven

 years. The petitioner has placed on record his adhar card, voter ID and account

 details of HDFC Bank, details whereof have been given as under: 11. Given the above reasoning, the Court is granting bail to the petitioner, subject

 to strict terms and conditions, which shall be over and above and irrespective of the

 contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 12. In Manish Lal Shrivastava v State of Himachal Pradesh, CrMPM No. 1734

 of 2020, after analysing judicial precedents, this Court observed that any Court

 granting bail with sureties should give a choice to the accused to either furnish surety

 bonds or give a fixed deposit, with a further option to switch over to another. 13. The petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR mentioned above, subject to

 his furnishing a personal bond of Rs. Twenty-five thousand (INR 25,000/-), and shall

 furnish two sureties of a similar amount, to the satisfaction of the Judicial Magistrate

 having the jurisdiction over the Police Station conducting the investigation, and in

 case of non-availability, any Ilaqa Magistrate.Before accepting the sureties, the

 concerned Magistrate must satisfy that in case the accused fails to appear in Court,

 then such sureties are capable to produce the accused before theCourt, keeping in

 mind the Jurisprudence behind the sureties, which is to secure the presence of the

 accused. 14. In the alternative, the petitioner may furnish aforesaid personal bond and

 fixed deposit(s) for Rs. Twenty-five thousand only (INR 25,000/-), made in favour of

 . a) Such Fixed deposits may be made from any of the banks where the stake
 of the State is more than 50%, or any of the stable private banks, e.g., Bank of

 America, Chase, HSBC, City Bank, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak Mahindra
 Bank, etc., with the clause of automatic renewal of principal, and liberty of the
 interest reverting to the linked account. b) Such a fixed deposit need not necessarily be made from the account of
 the petitioner and need not be a single fixed deposit. c) If such a fixed deposit is made in physical form, i.e., on paper, then the
 original receipt shall be handed over to the concerned Court. d) If made online, then its printout, attested by any Advocate, and if
 possible, countersigned by the accused, shall be filed, and the depositor shall
 get the online liquidation disabled. e)

 The petitioner or his Advocate shall inform at the earliest to the

 concerned branch of the bank, that it has been tendered as surety. Such
 information be sent either by e-mail or by post/courier, about the fixed deposit,
 whether made on paper or in any other mode, along with its number as well as
 FIR number. f) After that, the petitioner shall hand over such proof along with

 endorsement to the concerned Court. g) It shall be total discretion of the petitioner to choose between surety
 bonds and fixed deposits. It shall also be open for the petitioner to apply for
 substitution of fixed deposit with surety bonds and vice-versa. h) Subject to the proceedings under S. 446 CrPC, if any, the entire amount
 of fixed deposit along with interest credited, if any, shall be endorsed/returned

 to the depositor(s). Such Court shall have a lien over the deposits up to the
 expiry of the period mentioned under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, or until discharged
 by substitution as the case may be. 15. The furnishing of the personal bonds shall be deemed acceptance of the

 following and all other stipulations, terms, and conditions of this bail order: the change of residential address and change of phone numbers, WhatsApp

 number, e-mail accounts, to the Police Station of this FIR to the concerned
 Court. c) The petitioner shall not influence, browbeat, pressurize, make any

 inducement, threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the witnesses, the
 Police officials, or any other person acquainted with the facts of the case, to
 dissuade them from disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court, or to
 tamper with the evidence. d) The petitioner shall join the investigation as and when called by the
 Investigating Officer or any Superior Officer; and shall cooperate with the
 investigation at all further stages as may be required. In the event of failure to
 do so, it will be open for the prosecution to seek cancellation of the bail.
 Whenever the investigation occurs within the police premises, the petitioner

 shall not be called before 8 AM and shall be let off before 5 PM, and shall not

 be subjected to third-degree, indecent language, inhuman treatment, etc. e) In addition to standard modes of processing service of summons, the
 concerned Court may serve or inform the accused about the issuance of
 summons, bailable and non-bailable warrants the accused through E-Mail (if

 any), and any instant messaging service such as WhatsApp, etc. (if any).
 [Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Re Cognizance for Extension of
 Limitation, Suo Moto Writ Petition (C) No. 3/2020, I.A. No. 48461/2020- July
 10, 2020]: 16. In case of non-appearance, then irrespective of the contents of the bail

 bonds, the petitioner undertakes to pay all the expenditure (only the principal

 amount without interest) that the Government(s) might incur to produce him ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:15:43 :::HCHP 8 before such Court, provided such amount exceeds the amount recoverable

 after forfeiture of the bail bonds, and also subject to the provisions of

 . Sections 446 & 446-A of CrPC. The petitioner's failure to reimburse shall

 entitle the trial Court to order the transfer of money from the petitioner's bank

 account(s). However, this recovery is subject to the condition that the

 expenditure incurred must be spent to trace the petitioner alone, and it relates

 to the exercise undertaken solely to arrest the petitioner in that FIR, and that

 voyage was not for any other purpose/function what so ever. 17. During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner repeats or commits any

 offence where the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates

 any condition as stipulated in this order, the State may move an appropriate

 application before this Court, seeking cancellation of this bail. Otherwise, the

 bail bonds shall continue to remain in force throughout the trial and after that

 in terms of Section 437-A of the CrPC. 18. Any Advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose presence the

 petitioner puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions of

 this bail order, in vernacular and if not feasible, in Hindi. 19. In case the petitioner finds the bail condition(s) as violating

 fundamental, human, or other rights, or causing difficulty due to any

 situation, then for modification of such term(s), the petitioner may file a

 reasoned application before this Court, and after taking cognizance, even to

 the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be, and such ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:15:43 :::HCHP 9 Court shall also be competent to modify or delete any condition. . 20. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the rights of the

 Police or the investigating agency from further investigation per law. 21. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion

 on the merits of the case, nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 22. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court believes that

 the accused shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 23. There would no need for a certified copy of this order for furnishing

 bonds, and any Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order from the

 official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. In case the
 attesting officer or the Court wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer
 can also verify its authenticity and may download and use the downloaded
 copy for attesting bonds. The petition stands allowed in the terms mentioned above. Anoop Chitkara,

 Vacation Judge. February 4, 2021 (mamta) ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:15:43 :::HCHP