V. KAMESWAR RAO, J

 IAs. 21153/2011 and 4474/2014 1. The present suit has been filed by the plaintiff seeking

 permanent injunction against the defendants. The plaintiff has

 also filed the I.A. 21153/2011 under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 1/137 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (' CPC ' hereinafter) with

 the following prayers: B. The Defendants, it directors, officer, servants,
 agents, representatives and assigns be restrained by an
 order of interim and ad-interim ex-parte injunction from: CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 2/137 2. The plaintiff has subsequently filed another application

 numbered as I.A. 4474/2014 under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2, CPC , seeking ad interim relief against defendant No. 3, i.e.,

 Google LLC with the following prayers: B. The Defendant No.3, it directors, officer, servants,
 agents, representatives and assigns be restrained by an
 order of interim and ad-interim ex-parte injunction from: D. Costs of the present application be awarded to the
 Plaintiffs; and
 E. Any other relief which the Hon'ble Court thinks fit
 and proper in the circumstances of the case be allowed in
 favour of the Plaintiffs and against the Defendant No.3." CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 4/137 3. I shall proceed to decide both these applications

 simultaneously. This Court vide order dated January 22, 2020

 had recorded the submission of the plaintiff wherein it had

 stated that the only issue which need to be decided for the

 purpose of injunction is, whether providing a trademark of an

 owner as a keyword to a third party would amount to

 infringement of a trademark. The same has been reproduced as

 under: I further note from the plaint that plaintiff No.1 is the

 owner of the trademarks and copyrights and plaintiff No.2 has

 been granted license for use of trademarks and copyrights vide

 agreement dated July 22, 2009. It is also clear from the plaint

 that plaintiff No.2 has filed an application before the Registrar CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 5/137 of Trademarks to take on record the fact that it is a registered

 user of the trademarks of plaintiff No.1. Plaintiff No.1 and

 plaintiff No.2 have been in this order collectively referred to as

 'plaintiff' for the sake of brevity. 4. Mr. Lall, learned Senior Counsel who appears along with

 Ms. Nancy Roy on behalf of the plaintiff has stated that through

 the present suit the plaintiff seeks to restrain defendants Nos. 1

 and 3 i.e. Google India Pvt. Ltd. and Google LLC (hereinafter

 'Google') from the use of the plaintiff's registered trademarks

 which constitute a part of ad-title, ad-text, URL and meta-tag or

 keyword. Mr. Lall states that meta-tags or keywords trigger

 search results on Google i.e. by way of Google Ads. 5. It is the case of the plaintiff that several third party

 infringers use the services of Google for inserting their

 infringing advertisements when a user on the internet looks for

 the plaintiff by typing "Agarwal Packers & Movers". Plaintiff

 has moved against third parties and despite having decrees in its

 favour it states that Google did not stop the use of infringing

 advertisements on their platforms. He stated that one party

 namely Agarwal Packers India (Agarwal Express Links Pvt. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 6/137 Ltd.) against whom a decree has been passed, continues to

 appear in the keyword, Ad-title and URL. 6. It is the case of the plaintiff that obtaining orders against

 individual advertisers on the Google platform was ineffective

 and it is due to this reason that the plaintiff was compelled to

 initiate the present suit against defendant Nos. 1 & 3 and

 defendant No.2 i.e. Just Dial. Mr. Lall has pointed to the

 averments made in the plaint wherein it has been stated that the

 plaintiff has been asked to pay more money or else the

 defendants would advertise the infringers of the plaintiff's

 brand on their website. 7. Mr. Lall argued that these actions of the defendants

 amount to blackmailing through the AdWords Program. He has

 argued that there are numerous tutorials available online which

 suggest that by bidding for one's own brand, which is used as a

 keyword by the Google AdWord Services the owner can protect

 the advertisement panels on the search engine result page from

 being used by the competitors and from stopping the

 competitors from stealing the traffic. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 7/137 8. It is the case of Mr. Lall that the suit has been initiated

 against Google alone and not against their customers who use

 Google services, which are constantly changing. The suit targets

 the mechanism of Google and the cause of action relates to all

 activities where the registered trademark of the plaintiff is used

 to direct internet traffic to the website of the infringer and seeks

 injunction from using the same as a keyword / meta tag, etc. 9. He has pointed out, that at the time of filing of the suit

 brand infringement was permissible on Google by use of

 registered trademarks in the ad-title and ad-text as also in the

 URL and of course keywords. However, Google has agreed to

 block the trade mark "Agarwal Packers & Movers" and other

 similar marks of the plaintiff from appearing in the Ad-title and

 Ad-text. According to him, on URL, the defendants in their

 written statement in paragraph 14 have also stated that, in terms

 of the policies of Google Inc., which are implemented by

 Google Inc, itself no registered trademarks will be displayed in

 the Ad-text and Ad-title of an advertisement or sponsored link.

 The trademarked term would also not appear in the URL of the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 8/137 advertisement and that the said policies would be applicable to

 the plaintiff as well. 10. According to him, on the issue of keywords, Google had

 asserted that it only implements the policy to restrict keywords

 in certain countries which include China but does not include

 India. Mr. Lall has pointed to the policy of Google as existing

 before the Madras High Court in Consim Info Pvt. Ltd. vs.

 Google India Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. 2011 (45) PTC 575 (Mad) (SJ)

 ('Consim I' hereinafter) and Consim Info Pvt. Ltd. vs. Google

 India Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. 2013 (54) PTC 578 (Mad) (DB)

 ('Consim II' hereinafter) to list the countries where it restricts

 the use of keywords. However, when it comes to India the

 defendant Nos. 1 and 3 have stated that Google would not

 investigate or restrict the use of a trademark term in keywords,

 even if a trademark complaint is received. According to him,

 Google does not consider use of trademarks as keywords as use,

 or infringement of a registered trademark. 11. As per Mr. Lall in the earlier cases before the Madras

 High Court viz. Consim I and Consim II both Google India and

 Google Inc. were parties and the stand taken by Google has CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 9/137 changed from 2009 to 2014 which is when the current suit was

 filed. 12. According to Mr. Lall, the Division Bench of the Madras

 High Court held the Plaintiff/Appellant therein to be entitled to

 an injunction. He stated that the Court had given a finding

 stating that Google had discriminated against the appellants

 therein and also arbitrarily used the trademark words as

 keywords; and that Google could have used some other words

 as keywords on sponsored link and also held that Google's

 action would only create confusion in the minds of the public.

 Further that Google was bound by the policy that has been

 reproduced in the order of the Division Bench. 13. He further pointed to the written statement of the

 defendant No. 1 to state that they have in paragraph 20 admitted

 to the applicability of judgment in the case of Consim I to the

 instant case and therefore the change in policy now is

 completely mischievous and contumacious. Further, he stated

 that in an affidavit filed by Google there was an admission that

 right up to 2009 the AdWords Policy applicable to India did not

 allow trademarks as part of keywords. According to him, CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 10/137 Google asserts that they revised their Ad Policy on June 4, 2009

 to allow use of trademarks as keywords in more than 100

 countries including India. The decision in Consim I is dated

 September 30, 2010 wherein Google was bound to follow the

 keyword policy in India prior to amendment. The policy that

 was to be followed for India was also clarified in paragraph 51

 of Consim II. 14. Mr. Lall relied on the judgment of the Bomaby High

 Court in the case of People Interactive (I) Pvt. Ltd. vs. Gaurav

 Jerry, MIPR 2014 (3) 101, to state that, meta-tags are special

 lines of code embedded in the web pages which provide

 structured data (meta data) about the web page and that these

 meta-tags are used by search engine robots to assess webpage

 contents and other relevant material relating to a webpage in the

 building of search engine indices. The illicit use of meta-tags

 could be severely damaging and that this is a form of hijacking

 the plaintiff's reputation and goodwill. Similarly, Mattel Inc. &

 Ors. vs. Jayant Agarwalla & Ors. , 2008 (38) PTC (416) (Del)

 held that meta-tags are machine readable codes used by search

 engines to index sites. Additionally, he stated that meta-tags are CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 11/137 included in the code that defines the functionality of a website

 by a website owner and that the use of trademarks as meta-tags

 constitutes infringement and passing off since the defendant

 Nos. 1 and 3 through such tags divert internet traffic away from

 the plaintiff's website. 15. By placing reliance on Consim I, he also argued that

 keywords are meta-tags which have been commercialised and

 are available to third parties for a price. According to him,

 defendant No.3 describes a keyword as words or phrases you

 choose that can trigger your ad to show on search and other

 sites; these keywords are used synonymously with 'search

 terms' and 'AdWords'. 16. Mr. Lall argued that Google is not an intermediary, but

 rather a direct beneficiary through the sale of keywords. As per

 the judgement of Consim II, Google explained that advertisers

 who vie with one another are asked to bid upon the basic price

 fixed by the search engine for selection of the keyword; and

 parties can advertise their services on the sponsored links by

 paying necessary charges to Google. According to the written

 statement of defendant No.3, Google India is the reseller of CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 12/137 Adwords Program in India and as per Consim I. Google guides

 the advertiser in selection of the keyword and charges them

 either a fixed rate or gives it to the highest bidder. 17. Mr. Lall has pointed to Google's policy to state that

 Google maximises its revenues by linking keywords with the

 goods/services of the advertisers and that these keywords enable

 the advertisements to appear on diverse Google platforms. The

 relevant section of Google's policy has been reproduced as

 under. 18. Mr. Lall points out to the averments made by the

 defendant No.3 in their written statement that the sponsored

 results / ads are obtained by the mechanism put in place under

 the AdWords Program. Only advertisers having an AdWords

 account can access the AdWords Program, which allows

 advertisers to create, select, edit and manage keywords based on

 which their advertisements can show up as a 'sponsored links' /

 ads in response to a search query entered by any user. He stated

 that the defendant admitted that the keyword mechanism is at

 the heart of Google's programming, as they have stated in the

 written statement that, the automated response which Google

 search engine makes to a user's search request by displaying a

 sponsored link is wholly determined by the keywords and other

 content of the sponsored link which the advertiser has chosen. 19. Mr. Lall has pointed to the Plaintiff's affidavit with a

 screenshot of how the keyword Planner which assists the

 advertisers in selecting certain terms and combinations thereof

 as keywords under the AdWords Program which can help

 improve the likelihood of an advertisement receiving a higher

 relevancy score of Ad rank; which reads that the keyword CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 14/137 'agarwal packers and movers' has 170 as average monthly

 searches and the screenshot reads that the competition against

 this keyword as 'High' and suggests a bid of ₹168.69. The

 keyword planner tool according to them provides data and

 information to an advertiser relating to popular keywords in the

 same field of business and gives information such as average

 monthly searches for any popular keyword or a suggested value

 of the bid amount to help the advertiser plan its bid value,

 keeping in mind other advertisers in the same field of business.

 Mr. Lall argued that by the virtue of the above acts, Google

 cannot be termed as an intermediary, as the term has been

 defined under the Information Technology Act, 2000 (' IT Act '

 for short). It is not entitled to claim the harbour of Section 79 of

 IT Act as it is Google itself which provides the service of

 keywords, selects the people who can participate and actually

 shepherds them through the process and conspires and abets the

 commission of unlawful acts. Mr. Lall has placed reliance on

 the affidavit of Ramesh Agarwal filed on April 19, 2014,

 wherein screen-shots of the Keyword Suggestion Tool which

 shows the advertiser the Ad group ideas along with keyword CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 15/137 ideas as well as country specific options, language, negative

 keywords, etc. This is also succeeded by a column for Keyword

 filters with Keyword options, Show broadly related ideas, Hide

 keywords in my account, Hide keywords in my plan. The

 prospective advertiser is offered a menu of keywords to choose

 with the following information: CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 16/137 20. He argued that Google's argument is merely an

 afterthought. Its AdWords Policy itself acknowledged that the

 use of trademarks as part of keywords constituted violation of

 trademark rights and merely because they now unilaterally

 decide to change that policy, the legal position remains

 unchanged and Google is estopped from claiming to the

 contrary. He further anchors his argument on the fact that the

 use of keywords by search engines require licenses, a fact

 which has been acknowledged by Google; as per the plaint

 wherein the plaintiff has submitted that the plaintiff also

 participates in the Google AdWords Program and when it does,

 in such a case the plaintiff licenses the use of its registered

 trademark to the defendant No.1 and the defendant No.3 for use

 as a keyword. According to him defendants specifically admit

 the position that its AdWords Policy, Terms of Service requires

 the trademark owner to grant to Google a license to use the

 keywords in future. The need to obtain a license by Google

 constitutes an admission that unlicensed use is not authorised. 21. He submitted, that as per section 29(7) of the Trade

 Marks Act, 1999 (TM Act 'for short') clearly sets out that a CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 17/137 registered trademark is infringed by a person who applies such

 registered mark to a material intended to be used for

 advertisement of goods or services and here the goods or

 services are not restricted to goods/services for which the

 trademark is registered. 22. Mr. Lall has argued that defendant No.2 Just Dial is

 another service provider which collaborates with Google and its

 AdWords Policy; when one searches for the plaintiff's

 registered trademark a Just Dial advertisement appears on top.

 The name of Just Dial is in juxtaposition to the trademark of the

 plaintiff. Just Dial is then able to direct traffic to a telephone

 number who pays them the highest fee, just like Google. The

 first number that appears on Just Dial is of the person who pays

 the highest fee for the listing. 23. Mr. Sandeep Sethi and Mr. Arun Kathpalia, learned

 Senior Counsels who appear with Mr. Neel Mason and Mr.

 Saransh Jain on behalf of defendant Nos. 1 and 3 (collectively

 referred to as 'Counsels for Google'), argued that the Google

 Ads program, is an advertising service where any advertiser can

 create and display an online advertisement in relation to its CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 18/137 website, including search-based advertising on the Google

 search engine. The search results on the first page of the Google

 Search engine are of two types, i.e., 'Sponsored Search Results'

 and 'Organic Search Results'. The former comprises of

 advertisements and appear separately from the organic search

 results; and are differentiated from the label 'Ad'. 24. The Counsels for Google have submitted that for creation

 of an advertisement, the advertiser inter alia has to provide the

 text of his Ad, i.e., the Ad-Text and also provide the search

 terms or phrases, which are known as keyword(s), which the

 advertiser believes are most relevant to its business. When the

 said keyword is typed in by any internet user on the Google

 Search Engine, as a search query, the Ad of the advertiser may

 be eligible for display on the Google Search Engine Results

 Page. Counsels for Google have maintained that each and every

 element of the Ad is created and provided solely by the

 advertiser, whereas the Google Ads program merely provides

 an advertising platform and interface for creating and placing

 such an Ad on Google Search. A keyword provided by the

 advertiser is treated as just a backend trigger for an Ad to be CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 19/137 displayed and is never used in a trademark sense. Keywords

 provided by the Advertiser are not visible anywhere within the

 advertisement nor are they used in any tangible or perceptible

 manner to the end user. 25. The Counsels for Google have explained that the search-

 based Ads are triggered by a way of automated software

 algorithms that match the search query entered by a user with

 the set of keywords provided by various advertisers and

 algorithmically determines which Ad is most relevant to the

 search query and should be triggered, if at all. The actual

 display and ranking of an Ad is not determined by the selection

 of keywords alone nor the highest bid, but is a function of a

 combination of the bid amount, quality score (that factors the

 relevance of the Ad), the context of a user's search and the

 expected impact of Ad formats and extensions. It is the case of

 Google that revenue is not earned or generated by Google

 merely by an advertiser participating in the Google Ads

 program or upon the mere display of an Ad. A charge is made

 to the advertiser only if the Ad is clicked upon by the end user. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 20/137 26. It has been argued by the Counsels for Google that the

 keywords are neither sold by Google nor are they purchased by

 the advertiser in the sense of exclusively reserving the term or

 phrase for the purpose of triggering Ads. Google has stated that

 none of the Advertisers acquire any proprietary rights in the

 keywords provided by them to Google and that multiple

 advertisers can select the same keyword. 27. With regard to the keyword Planner Tool, the Counsels

 for Google have argued that, this is a standalone research tool,

 i.e., the keyword planner which was earlier known as Keyword

 Suggestion Tool. They have submitted that this is a tool for the

 benefit of advertisers to gain statistical information and

 understanding about the kind of words, expressions,

 combinations that may be relevant for an advertiser to consider

 as keywords for triggering their advertisements. They state that,

 the keyword planner tool is not a mandatory step for creating or

 running advertisements on Google Ads and is simply a free

 facility or a software tool that is separately available to the

 advertiser and can be used to help plan an advertisement

 campaign, should the advertiser choose to avail of it. This CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 21/137 keyword planner is only for the internal reference of advertises

 and is not publicly accessible except to advertisers who

 specifically look for this tool on the Google Ads program.

 According to them, prospective advertisers can use this tool to

 generate and compile lists containing some relevant statistical

 data e.g., number of average monthly searches, the competition

 level, the amounts bid by advertisers for a keyword, etc.,

 regarding a given business field and learn which keywords and

 search phrases would generate an optimum value for the

 advertiser. They have stated that, the information that is

 ultimately displayed using this tool is based on the millions of

 bits of data that is being stored dynamically to the extent it

 matches with the queries fed in by the user of the tool; and

 Google has taken a stand that the advertiser is free at all times

 whether or not to use the keyword planner tool and has the full

 discretion and choice to provide or not provide a keyword,

 irrespective of whether it forms a part of keyword planner or

 not and may even provide a keyword that is not a part of the

 keyword planner at all. Google has maintained that the said tool CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 22/137 is line, both with the applicable law in India as well as honest

 commercial/industrial practices. 28. In context of their trademark policy vis-a-vis the Google

 Ads, the Counsels for Google have stated that the Google Ads

 Trademark policy explicitly prohibits any advertisements that

 infringe the trademark rights of others. They have also stated

 that under the policy, Google investigates the use of

 trademarked terms in the Ad-Text of competitor ads, i.e., in the

 visible portion of the ad that appears on the search results page.

 Google does not restrict or investigate use of trademarks as

 keywords. They have stated that the, trademark policy permits

 use of the trademark term in the Ad-text by resellers,

 informational sites and authorized advertisers, if they meet the

 necessary requirements, consistent with the applicable law in

 India. According to them, Google Ads Trademark policy which

 is applicable globally including in India is aligned with global

 legal precedent, finding that a mere use of a trademark as a

 keyword, without more, does not amount to infringement or

 unfair competition. They have stated that the said policy had

 been recorded and accepted in Consim I and reiterated by the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 23/137 Division bench in Consim II. The said policy has not

 undergone any significant change since then, contrary to what

 the plaintiff has alleged. They have stated that the only issue

 subsisting in the present matter is whether permitting a third

 party to register a keyword that is a registered trademark

 amounts to infringement, which according to them is a question

 answered in the negative, based on the findings of numerous

 foreign Courts. 29. It is the case of Google that, once the Ad is created or

 edited by an advertiser, the Ad is reviewed in an automated

 manner for compliance with the Google Ads policies and

 applicable laws. The process of review involves the Ad being

 reviewed in an automated manner and algorithmically without

 any human intervention to check any Ad that may be placed in

 the system for violations of applicable laws. The content,

 including headline, description, keywords, destination and any

 images and videos are reviewed within one business day. Ads

 which on the face of it violate Google Ad policies; for instance,

 Google algorithms will automatically track and block

 advertisements which are prohibited under the Pre-Conception CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 24/137 and Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques Act, 1994 ('PCPNDT

 Act', for short). At the same time, for certain policy violations

 such as trademark violations (in the Ad Text), the Ads tools can

 detect and block the misuse of a trademarked term in the Ad

 Text once the owner of such rights has informed Google of its

 valid and existing rights and as to how a particular

 advertisement is in violation of such rights. It is Google 's case

 that the plaintiff itself has benefitted from the said feature and is

 very well aware of the nature and functioning of review of Ads

 by Google. 30. According to the counsels for Google, Google

 Advertisement Policies also include the Misrepresentation

 Policy. The thrust of the said policy is to route out ads that seek

 to mislead users or misrepresent themselves to offer genuine or

 authorised goods or services or in any manner seek to play a

 fraud on the users. For instance, Ads scamming users by

 impersonating brands or businesses by referencing the brand

 content in the ads, URL, destinations or an advertiser

 misrepresenting itself as the brand or business in user

 interactions is not permitted under the said policy. An Ad which CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 25/137 is suspended for violation of this policy also leads to suspension

 of the associated accounts of advertisers of such Ads, since this

 is considered to be a gross violation of the Ad policies. It had

 also been submitted, that the Plaintiff in the present proceedings

 had reported certain Ads for violation of their trademark rights.

 However according to Google, such ads were not found to be in

 violation of the Trademark policy of Google Ads because they

 did not feature the plaintiff's trademark in the Ad Text, the

 same were found to be in violation of the Misrepresentation

 policy and had been acted upon accordingly. It has been

 submitted that, Google Ads program does not permit bad ads,

 that are intended to deceive users by excluding relevant

 information or providing misleading information and such ads

 will be reviewed under the Misrepresentation Policy, as and

 when reported by the Plaintiff. 31. Another limb of argument advanced by the Counsels for

 Google, has been that keywords are not meta-tags. According to

 them, meta-tags are neither used by Google in the organic

 search result nor are they part of sponsored links/Ads section. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 26/137 On the specific issue of meta-tags the Counsels for Google

 addressed the following issues: 32. Another argument taken by the counsels for Google has

 been that the use of Trademarks as keywords does not amount

 to "use" under the TM Act. According to them, section 2(2) (b) requires a trademark to be used "in a printed or other visual

 representation" as a prerequisite before use under section 2

 (2)(c) can even be examined. The key requirement here is that

 the use of a trademark is in some visible or tangible form which CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 29/137 is "represented" to an end user / consumer. Mere providing of a

 trademark term as a keyword as a back-end trigger by the

 advertiser to display its ads does not in any manner amount to

 such "representation" and does not qualify as "trademark use" 33. It has been their case that as per the Federal Court of

 Australia in Veda Advantage (supra) wherein the Court had

 held that the use of a trademark as a keyword "which is

 invisible to the consumer" is not a use as trademark. The Court

 rejected the proposition that using the words which are invisible

 and inaudible, indeed imperceptible, to consumers, amounts to

 trademark use. Further, the UK Court of Appeal in the case of

 Reed Executive Plc & Anr. vs. Reed Business Information

 Ltd. and Ors., [2004] EWCA (Civ) 159 had stated in relation to

 use of trademarks as keywords, that an invisible use of such

 sort, may not be use at all, for the purpose of the trademark

 legislation as there is no meaning being conveyed to anyone - 34. It is their case that section 2(2)(c) further requires that the

 Plaintiff's trademarks be used "as or as part of any statement

 about the availability, provision or performance" of its services

 for it to qualify as trademark use. Mere providing of a

 trademark term as a keyword as a back-end trigger by the

 advertiser to display its ads does not in any manner amount to a

 "statement" to the end user / consumer and does not qualify as

 "trade mark use", especially by Google. The High Court of New

 Zealand in the case of NZ Fintech Limited T/A Moola vs. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 31/137 Credit Corp Financial Solutions Pty Ltd T/A Wallet Wizard

 [2019] NZHC 654 held that an advertiser is not using a

 keyword as a "badge of origin" for its goods or services, but

 rather it is being used in Google's paid service "to place its

 comparative or competitive offering" in the search results along

 with the trademark owner's offering which indicates that there

 is "no use as a trademark"; and also in the case of Veda

 Advantage (supra) it was observed that keywords being

 indiscernible to the consumers are not being used by the

 advertiser to "distinguish the services of one trader from

 another" and cannot denote a connection in trade between

 them. Such use by the advertiser is merely to "identify internet

 users who may have interest in using its services". 35. Counsels for Google, have argued that section 29(6) is to

 be read in addition and as a further elaboration of use under Sections 2 (2)(b) and 2(2)(c) that particularly identifies four

 specific forms of "use" of a trademark, which may qualify as

 infringement under section 29 . Use of trademarks as keywords

 at the "back end" for triggering ads does not qualify as use,

 including under any of the subsections of section 29(6) , CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 32/137 especially by Google. It is their case that it has been held across

 various international Courts that internal use of the trademark at

 the backend for triggering ads does not amount to use and hence

 cannot amount to trademark infringement. 36. It is their case that, if there is no use of trademark for five

 years as contemplated under section 47(1)(b) , which provides

 that a trademark may be removed from the register, if a

 trademark owner is permitted to claim to be making "trade mark

 use" of a trademark solely by using the term as a keyword at the

 backend without it otherwise appearing anywhere in the

 trademark owner's advertising materials or business activities,

 "non-use" as contemplated under Section 47 and its purpose

 would stand defeated. 37. The Counsels for Google have argued that, even if use is

 established, there are no elements for infringement and/or

 passing off under the TM Act which have been established.

 According to them section 29(1) stated that the use of a

 trademark is infringing only if it is "likely to be taken as being

 used as a trademark". The High Court of New Zealand in

 Intercity Group (NZ) Limited vs. Nakedbus NZ [2014] NZHC CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 33/137 124 had held that use of a trademark as a keyword is an act

 which is not "seen" or "known" or understood by the

 consumer, it could thereby not be "taken as" anything, let alone

 amounting to use that this is "likely to be taken as being used as

 a trademark". This view was also accepted by a Court of the

 United States of America in the case of Merck & Co. Inc. &

 Anr. vs. Mediplan Health Consulting, 425 F. Supp 2d 402 and

 it was observed that internal use of a trademark as a keyword on

 Internet Search results does not constitute a trademark use.

 They state that, Courts have around the world held that in cases

 of no visible appearance of a third-party trademark in keyword

 advertising, it cannot amount to infringement. Reliance has

 been placed on Reed Executive (supra) and Veda Advantage

 (supra). They also submitted the judgement of the Chancery

 Division Court in the case of Cosmetic Warriors Ltd. & Anr.

 vs. Amazon.uk. Ltd & Anr., [2014] EWHC 181 (Ch), wherein

 it was held that the use of third party trademarks as keywords to

 trigger advertisements does not constitute trademark

 infringement. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 34/137 38. Google has taken a stand that there is no prima facie

 evidence of confusion for infringement under sections 29(2) and

 29(3) of the TM Act which state that use of a trademark is

 infringing if it is "likely to cause confusion on part of the

 public". They have contended that it is settled law that

 confusion to the public or even likelihood of confusion cannot

 be automatically assumed in a vacuum where the actual

 advertisement and corresponding website does not mislead the

 consumer in any way. In absence of any actual or visible use of

 a trademarked term within the text of an advertisement, no

 question of likelihood of confusion or deception arises. Mere

 triggering of an advertisement of a third party cannot per se

 give rise to an assumption of confusion in public. Counsels for

 Google have also relied on McCarthy on Trademarks and

 Unfair Competition to state that a computer user who sees a

 search engine results page and clicks on a non-deceptive

 advertising link resulting from a trademark keyword purchased

 by a competitor is not confused as to the source of affiliation of

 any ultimate purchase that is made from that website and after

 trial, almost all Courts have found no likelihood of confusion CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 35/137 exists. They have placed reliance on the judgement of District

 Court of New York in Alzheimer's Disease & Related

 Disorders Association vs. Alzheimer's Foundation of America

 Inc. 307 F. Supp. 3d 260 (2018), to state that purchase of

 competitor's trademarks as keywords alone, without additional

 behaviour that confuses consumers is not actionable. 39. Moreover, the relevant class of consumers who access the

 internet and, more particularly, use the Google Search Engine to

 search for the Plaintiff's alleged marks are likely to be

 discerning class of users that is literate or at the very least semi-

 literate, having a basic understanding of how to search websites

 on the internet, having a basic knowledge of English language,

 understand how search results appear, and understand the

 difference between normal organic search results and Ads, and

 also are aware of the various industry players in the packing and

 moving business. Such users are also likely to be familiar with

 the websites like www.amazon.in, www.flipkart.com,

 www.bing.com, in.search and yahoo.com, all of which includes

 results for alternatives to the brand searched in a user's query.

 Such users accordingly anticipate that they will encounter ads CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 36/137 promoting alternatives to the term they searched, and they are

 very much in a position to make well-informed choices. The

 likelihood of confusion in respect of such a select class of

 consumers is even less likely and is in fact negligible, especially

 when Plaintiff is appearing prominently in the organic results

 and that the entire right-hand side of the page which displays

 the search results on the desktop, features information about the

 Plaintiff; as well as in sponsored links. They have stated that in

 any case consumers are unlikely to be confused by the

 appearance of the advertisement as the advertisement is clearly

 marked as 'Ad' and depicts the details of the advertiser and

 therefore there is no likelihood of initial interest of confusion. 40. Reliance has been placed on the judgement of District of

 Utah and North Carolina respectively of the United States of

 America in Jive Commerce LLC vs. Wine Racks Am., Inc

 Case No. 1:18-CV-49 TS-BCW and Passport Health LLC vs.

 Advance Health System, Inc., Case No. 5:17-CV-187-BO.

 They have also placed reliance on the case of Nebo (supra)

 wherein it had been observed that the use of a trademark as

 keyword does not create the possibility of confusing any CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 37/137 products of the claimant with those of the advertiser and it is

 merely one of the technical criteria provided by the advertiser

 for displaying its ad in the online advertising spaces. The

 Supreme Court of South Africa (Court of Appeals) in the

 judgements in the cases of Cochrane Steel Products (Pty) Ltd.

 vs. M-Systems Group (Pty) Ltd & Anr. (227/2015) [2016]

 ZASCA 74 and Esquire Electronics Ltd. vs. Roopanand Bros.,

 [1991] R.P.C. 425, had observed that it would be unnatural for

 a consumer to get misled by a clearly labelled ad, which clearly

 identifies the source. If neither the advertisement nor the

 advertiser's website contains any reference to the trademark

 owner then consumers ought to conclude that it is not related to

 the trademark owner's products or services, causing no

 confusion, and this was supported by absence of any evidence

 of actual confusion. Reliance is also placed on a judgment of a

 Coordinate Bench of this Court in Havells India Ltd. & Anr. vs.

 Amritanshu Khaitan & Ors. , 2015 SCC OnLine Del 8115, to

 contend that advertising forms a part of commercial speech and

 it is an essential facet covered by Article 19(1) of the

 Constitution of India. Moreover, counsels for Google have CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 38/137 stated that comparative advertisement is permissible and in the

 interest of public enlightenment and competition. Such use is

 permissible under the umbrella of fair use. Any comparison

 which is unfavourable to a competitor does not mean that it is

 dishonest or detrimental to the mark of the owner. 41. The Counsels for Google have argued that there is no

 prima facie basis to establish ingredients of section 29(4) of the

 TM Act, as there is no basis to establish that the use of

 Plaintiff's alleged trademark as a backend trigger is without due

 cause or takes unfair advantage of the Plaintiff or is detrimental

 to the distinctive character or repute of the trademark. They

 have also argued that a case under section 29(5) of the TM Act

 is also not made out, as plaintiff's case is that the advertiser or

 Google has used the Plaintiff's alleged trademarks as its trade

 name or part of its trade name, business concern or part of the

 name, of its business concern dealing in goods and services in

 respect of which the plaintiff's alleged trademarks are

 registered. 42. It is the case of Google that comparative advertising is

 permitted under sections 29(7) and 29(8) assuming that the use CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 39/137 of trademark as a keyword is presumed to be "use" under section 29(6)(d) . The trademark laws permit comparative

 advertising where a person can lawfully use his competitor's

 registered trademark within the advertisement itself to compare

 his goods/services to those of the competitors' and offer

 consumers with choices to make informed decisions. If the law

 permits honest usage of trademarks within the advertisement, it

 can be permitted as a back-end, invisible trigger for

 advertisements, even more so when the "overall effect" of the

 advertisement is neither misleading nor deceptive. 43. Another argument that has been advanced, is that the

 plaintiff has failed to make out any case of passing off, in the

 absence of establishing any confusion or misrepresentation to

 the end user or any harm to the plaintiff's reputation and

 goodwill by any advertiser's use of the Google Ads program. In

 relation to passing off, reliance has been placed on Vancouver

 Community College vs. Vancouver Career College (Burnaby)

 Inc. & Ors. 2017 BCCA 41 to state that mere bidding on a

 keyword is not sufficient to amount to a component of passing

 off and factors like how the advertiser has presented himself CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 40/137 and his advertisement is what needs to be considered to test any

 misrepresentation. Reliance has also been placed upon Reed

 Executive (supra) to state that when the user clicks through the

 advertisement and then finds misleading material on the website

 of the advertiser and not on the advertisement of a search

 engine result page. 44. The Counsels for Google have argued that Google has

 not used the plaintiff's trademarks "in course of its trade" or

 "in relation to the goods or services in respect of which the

 trademark is registered" or "within its advertising" or "in a

 manner to have taken unfair advantage of or in a manner

 detrimental to alleged distinctive character or repute of the

 plaintiff's trademarks" or "in a manner likely to be taken as

 being used as a trademark". According to them, a reliance on

 keywords at the backend for triggering Ads does not amount to

 either "use" of a trademark or "infringing use" or "passing

 off", on the part of Google. This proposition, which has also

 been accepted by Courts of the European Union in Google

 France SARL vs. Louis Vuitton Malletier SA C-236/08 to C-

 238/08 (2010). In L'Oreal SA vs. eBay International AG C- CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 41/137 324/09 (2010) it was held that the use of a trademark, if any in

 relation to the course of their commercial activities, such as

 offers for sale, signs corresponding to trademarks by the online

 service provider does not amount to use of those signs /

 trademarks by the service providers. Reliance has also been

 placed on Victor Andrew Wilson vs. Yahoo! UK Ltd. & Anr.

 [2008] EWHC 361 (Ch) and Fischerwerke GmbH & Co. vs.

 Beijing Baidu Netcom Science Technology Co. Ltd. & Others.,

 [2013] Gao-Min-Zhong-Zi No.1620 They have quoted

 McCarthy on Trademarks and Unfair Competition to note that

 there is no sale of trademarks by the service provider, only sale

 of advertising space. 45. The stand taken by Google is that even if it were to be

 assumed that the "use" and "infringing use" of trademark on

 Google's part, such use by Google is fair and in line with

 industry practice and is therefore exempt under section 30(1) . It

 is their case that several other notable search engine providers

 such as Yahoo and Microsoft (Bing) also provide for a similar

 keyword advertising service, whereby they permitted use of

 registered trademarks not only as keywords but also within the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 42/137 text of the advertisement itself. Many e-commerce providers,

 such as FlipKart and Amazon, use registered trademarks in their

 backend systems to trigger offers for alternative brands and

 products. They have drawn an analogy to Netflix to state that

 even it shows alternatives to a particular title searched by a user,

 presumably using that information in its backend systems as

 well. The TM Act itself permits descriptive use of a trademark

 under Section 30(2)(a) or under Section 35 ; nominative fair use

 of a trademark under section 30(1) of the TM Act. 46. It is their case that the Competition Commission of India

 in the case of Matrimony.com Ltd. & Ors. vs. Google LLC &

 Ors. , 2018 CompLR 101 (CCI), observed that the Google's

 keyword bidding policy promotes competition and provided

 similar consumer benefits and choice as compared to traditional

 advertising. They place reliance on the case of Private Career

 Training vs. Vancouver Career College (Burnaby) Inc. 2010

 BCSC 765, the Canadian Court held that the keyword

 advertising is no different than the accepted marketing practice

 of a company locating its advertisement close to that of a

 competitor's in a traditional media such as Yellow Book and the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 43/137 said practice was not found to be false, deceptive or misleading.

 They have submitted that similar views have been taken by

 Courts of other jurisdictions such as Spain, South Africa and

 Canada, in the cases of Chocolat Lamontagne Inc. vs. Humeur

 Groupe-conseil Inc., [2010] Q.J. No. 7172; Cochrane Steel

 Products (supra); Google Ireland Ltd., Google Inc. & Google

 Spain S.L. vs. Fotoprix, SA, Appeal 151/2016. 47. Another submission made by the Counsels for Google is

 that the present suit is bad in law for non-joinder of necessary

 parties. It is their case that the issues in the present suit cannot

 be decided in the absence of the parties whose use of the

 Google Ads program the Plaintiff wants to restrain. It has been

 argued that the plaintiff is praying for an in rem decision that

 would affect all potential advertisers without making those

 advertisers as party to the proceedings. They state that entities

 such as Safe Packers Movers Pvt. Ltd., Gati Ltd., DTC Cargo

 Packers and Movers Pvt. Ltd., Leo Packers and Movers India

 Pvt. Ltd., etc. which have been impugned in the present

 proceedings without taking any steps to implead the owners of CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 44/137 such websites as parties to the suit and that in their absence the

 interim injunction cannot be effectively adjudicated. 48. Mr. Kshitij Parashar learned Counsel who appears for

 defendant No.2, Justdial Ltd. has argued that the main objective

 of defendant No. 2 is to provide people with immediate access

 to fast, reliable and comprehensive information on businesses,

 products and services across India and that the database of

 defendant No.2 comprises of approximately 6 million business

 listings across various cities and towns in India as of June 30,

 2011. It has been submitted that defendant No.2 Company

 provide two types of listing i.e. Free/Non-Paid listing and Paid

 Listing to the business entities who want to register at the

 search engines of the defendant No.2. It was also submitted that

 many users or business entities register themselves as the

 Free/Non-paid Listers and that these Free/Non-paid Listing of

 the user or the business entity can be created by any person by

 just logging on the website of the of the defendant No.2

 Company and thereafter by entering the details of their business

 entity or services which they intend to provide. In this regard he

 has placed reliance on the screenshots of the website of CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 45/137 defendant No.2 reproduced in their written statement. He stated

 that the information so entered needs to be validated through a

 mobile verification of the person making such an entry and once

 the validation is done the entry goes live. Once this is done, the

 users can visit and change the company details as per their

 requirement. He has stated that the defendant No.2 also

 provides an option of "REPORT ABUSE", through which if

 any wrong details have been updated for any company the user

 or the affected party can comment on it which gets rectified on

 a priority basis. 49. He then went onto to explain the Paid listing option

 which is available on the website of defendant No.2 where any

 prospective user who wishes to avail the services of the

 defendant No.2 has to pay a certain amount to defendant No.2.

 The process of paid listing has been explained as under: 50. He explained that the basic difference between the

 Free/Non-Paid listing and the Paid Listing is that the Paid CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 47/137 Listing Advertisers would get leads from the defendant No.2

 Company on the instance when any customer calls the helpline

 number of the defendant No.2 for certain inquiries regarding

 any service/goods. That the information retrieval officer (IRO)

 after responding to the said inquiry of the customer also

 suggests similar services which are also being provided by other

 company(s) and once the customer is satisfied and confirms that

 his information can be shared, it is then forwarded with the paid

 listing advertisers of defendant No.2. 51. It is the case of the defendant No.2 Company, that it

 cannot keep a regular watch on the free listing or the paid

 listing. Defendant No. 2 Company believes the information

 provided by any prospective advertiser to be correct and

 genuine. That in case a person is listed as a free lister/paid lister

 he can change his information as and when he wants and it is

 practically impossible for the defendant No.2 to keep a regular

 watch on it. He reiterated the option of "REPORT ABUSE" 52. It is the case of Defendant No.2 that, it has not put any

 advertisement on its website infringing the

 trademarks/copyright of the plaintiff. It has been argued that the

 listing which has been questioned, does not belong to the

 plaintiff as it is DRS LOGISTIC and not DRS LOGISTICS. Mr.

 Parashar has referred to the screenshots which have been

 reproduced in the written statement of defendant No.2. It is the

 case of defendant No.2 that it has not infringed upon the

 trademark or copyright of the plaintiffs and that it is also not

 gaining any monetary benefits from the free listing as the same

 have been provided by defendant No.2 for the sake of

 convenience to the general public. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 49/137 53. Mr. Lall in his rejoinder arguments has stated that the

 plaintiff's grievance is against the defendants' services which

 enable third party infringers and counterfeiters to direct internet

 traffic towards themselves and receive inquiries and deliver on

 packing and moving services by deceiving consumers into

 believing that the services are being provided by the Plaintiffs.

 He has argued that many users have lost articles and household

 goods on account of such deception and the services of the

 defendants enable dubious operators to set up fraudulent

 accounts with the defendants temporarily, deceive consumers

 and then disappear. Had it not been for the services of the

 defendants, such parties would have no means of promoting or

 advertising their services and perpetrating such fraud. The

 services offered by defendant Nos. 1 and 3 include, Google

 Adwords, Google Maps and Just Dial, i.e., defendant No.2

 enables third parties to provide users fraudulent websites,

 fraudulent telephone numbers and fraudulent addresses, due to

 which ultimately people have lost their household items and

 valuables. In this regard Mr. Lall has referred to affidavits of

 Ramesh Agarwal and Gaurav Bakshi, the latter who got CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 50/137 confused and suffered huge damages due to such confusion

 created by the Defendants. Additionally, he has also referred to

 newspaper articles in order to establish this point. 54. Mr. Lall argued that the algorithm developed by Google

 permits the mischief that has been complained of by the

 plaintiff. According to him, Google developed algorithms that

 look for relevance, i.e., it connects the Keywords to the relevant

 service provided which in this case "APM" is linked to moving

 services. They have argued that these keywords are sold to third

 parties by Google on bidding and Google then charges a fee for

 such bids and for successful clicks. It is his argument, that it is

 correct that keywords are never sold, by them; they are kept

 under ownership of Google and leased to the highest bidder.

 This he states is the case of Google trading in Trademarks of

 third parties. 55. Mr. Lall has argued that there is an admission on behalf

 of Google that its Keyword Suggestion Tool provides the

 necessary historic information to induce third parties to select

 keywords consisting of well-known trademarks. Google admits

 that it collects information on the plaintiff and its use of the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 51/137 keyword such as 'Agarwal Packers and Movers' and this data is

 then used to induce third parties to select this trade mark as their

 keyword and attaches it to their website. In the case when

 someone looks for 'Agarwal Packers and Movers', Google is

 able to direct that traffic meant for the plaintiff, to the site of

 infringing third parties. Mr. Lall, has argued that this is a classic

 case of direct infringement and inducement to infringe. 56. He has referred to the statement by defendant No.3 in its

 written submission, "Trademark Policy permits use of the

 trademarked term in the Ad-Text by resellers, informational

 sites and authorized advertisers, if they meet the necessary

 requirements, consistent with the applicable law in India",

 which does not form part of the Court order dated January 22,

 2020 and cannot be an exception now sought to be carved out

 by Google. The same is liable to be disregarded. He argued that,

 such permission can only be granted by Google which,

 according to their own statement, makes a determination

 whether the user of the trademark term is a reseller or

 authorised agent or not. This he stated was proof that Google

 plays an active role in granting keywords to third parties. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 52/137 57. Mr. Lall has countered the submissions made by the

 Counsels for Google with respect to Google's review of an

 advertisement by stating that such submissions are beyond

 pleading and therefore liable to be disregarded. He stated that

 this too would go to show that Google plays an active role in

 selection of keywords and that Google possesses the capability

 to assess and reject mischievous ads and keywords selected by

 advertisers, but chooses to ignore them with an incentive for

 profiteering. 58. Mr. Lall argued that in the pleadings Google has admitted

 that keywords are meta-tags. In the plaint these terms have been

 used synonymously by the plaintiff, which according to him,

 are admitted in the pleadings. He stated that, the reliance

 placed on Veda Advantage (supra) is misplaced as in paragraph

 130 it was stated that keywords are "words embedded in

 metatags"; and that meta-tags are used in indexing and ranking

 of websites, which is exactly what keywords are used for, i.e.,

 they are one and the same thing. He argued that it was the

 Defendants who failed to distinguish the two binding precedents

 of law in People Interactive (supra) and Mattel Inc. (supra). CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 53/137 59. Mr. Lall has countered the argument advanced by the

 Counsels for Google that use of trademarks as Keywords does

 not amount to "use" under the TM Act by stating that when an

 entity participates in the Google AdWords Program it licenses

 the use of its registered trademark to Google for use as a

 keyword. He referred to paragraph 60 of Veda Advantage

 (supra) to state that it had been recorded in the said judgment

 that, sponsored links were advertisements, which Google's

 AdWords program allows advertisers to create, change, and

 monitor. They are triggered by keywords privately supplied by

 the advertiser to Google. Courts while discussing the law in the

 context of the United Kingdom ('UK' for short) and European

 Union ('EU' hereinafter) stated that in the European context it

 was stated that the keywords used in course of trade in respect

 of goods or services would amount to use as a trademark.

 However, it was held that the laws in Australia were different

 from the laws in the UK and similarly the laws in India are

 different and recognise that the use of keywords / meta-tags

 constitute use and infringement of a trademark. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 54/137 60. Mr. Lall has argued that the interpretation of the decision

 by Google in Reed Executive (supra) is incorrect as the Court

 in that case had categorically expressed itself when it in

 paragraph 140 stated that, whether the use as a reserved word

 can fairly be regarded as use in course of trade or not, on which

 the Court expresses no opinion. In paragraph 142 the Court

 again restrained itself from expressing opinion and hence there

 is no finding at all on the question that the use of keywords does

 not equal to use in trade. 61. He argued that reliance placed on Nebo (supra) is

 misplaced as the Article 1484 of the Civil Code of the Russian

 Federation is very different from the Indian Law. Similarly, the

 laws of New Zealand are completely different from Indian

 Laws and therefore the decision in the cases of Intercity Group

 (NZ) (supra) and NZ Fintech (supra) would not be applicable

 in the present case. 62. He stated that section 29(6) is to be read with section

 29(7) and indeed is in addition to the definition of "use" under section 2(2) . Admittedly use of a trademark in the keyword by

 Google amounts to use "in advertising" as per sections 29(6) , CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 55/137 29(7) and 29(8) and it is also admitted that a Google

 advertisement cannot be triggered without keywords. This

 indicates that it is an integral part of "use" in advertising and in

 background of the instant case where the question of "use in

 advertising" amounting to "use" is concerned, foreign cases

 cannot be relied on as the laws in India are very specific when it

 comes to "use in advertising" constituting "use" of a

 trademark. If a registered trademark is used in a keyword, it

 would constitute use of trademark and can be used to ward off

 an action for cancellation. 63. The argument, that even if the use is established,

 elements of infringement/passing off under the TM Act have

 not been established, has been opposed by Mr. Lall by arguing

 that there is no requirement of visibility of a trademark to

 constitute infringement. Such limitations to infringement are

 only figments of imagination of Google and are not supported

 by law. A trademark, need not be visible which is apparent

 from section 29(9) wherein it is stated that infringement may

 occur even by spoken use. So is the case of a keyword. He

 argued that the use in any case is not invisible as Google CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 56/137 actually makes the plaintiff's trademark visible to its customers/

 prospective advertisers by offering it to be selected by third

 party advertisers. 64. He submitted that in the case of Mattel Inc. (supra) and

 People Interactive (supra) it was held that use of trademark in

 meta-tags constituted use and therefore the visibility of a

 trademark is not a prerequisite to constitute infringement. Since

 it is his case that meta-tags are keywords, the use of keywords

 would constitute infringement and in the direct applicability of

 aforementioned judgments on the issue, foreign laws should not

 be relied upon. He argued that Google has misread section

 29(3) of the TM Act which categorically states that where

 marks are identical, confusion on part of the public is presumed;

 in this case Google admittedly sells and pawns an identical

 trademark of the plaintiff and in fact correlates the use of an

 identical mark to identical services, by its specially made

 algorithms, which amounts to "taking unfair advantage" and is

 detrimental to the distinctive character and repute of a mark. 65. Google relied on McCarthy on Trademarks and Unfair

 Competition and asserted that a computer user who seeks a CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 57/137 search engine results page and clicks on a non-deceptive

 advertising link resulting from a trademark keyword purchased

 by a competitor is not confused as to the source or affiliation of

 any ultimate purchase that is made from that website. Mr. Lall

 stated that even if this is taken to be true, would Google ensure

 that the advertising is non-deceptive. He contends that Google

 has stated that it does not control the content in the advertising.

 He argued that this submission of Google is not relevant to the

 case as advertisers use a host of techniques to confuse its

 consumers and Google intentionally pawns well-known

 trademarks to such parties. According to him, as per section

 29(7) there is no requirement of confusion, mere use in

 advertising amounts to infringement and similarly for the use in

 advertising, confusion is not a pre-requisite under section 29(8) .

 The use of plaintiff's trademark as a keyword is not authorised

 by the plaintiff which is a pre-requisite under section 29(7) .

 Moreover section 29(8) has been violated since the plaintiff's

 trademark is being sold as a keyword. Use by Google cannot be

 said to be honest use under any circumstances, especially when

 Google does not ensure that the overall effect is neither CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 58/137 misleading nor deceptive. He also stated that on the basis of the

 material placed on record which shows instances of actual

 confusion and passing off, the submissions made by Google that

 there is no case of passing off, is unacceptable. In contradiction

 Google's argument that no case of use of a trademark or

 infringement is made out under any part of section 29 of the TM

 Act. Mr. Lall stated that the terminology used in Section 29(7)

 of TM Act is "material intended to be used....for advertising

 goods or services" and keywords are used by Google to trigger

 advertisements. It is therefore admittedly a "material" intended

 to be used for advertising. The term "within its advertising" 66. Google also asserts that discerning class of users have

 basic understanding of how to search for websites on the

 internet and have basic knowledge of English language and

 understand the difference between organic search results and

 Ads. Mr. Lall argued that Google is available in a number of

 different languages and English is not the primary language of

 Google. Even otherwise, majority of the people in India are not

 well versed in English and are likely to be confused between

 organic results and Ads which are not clearly demarcated. He

 stated that Google has not placed any evidence to prove these

 submissions and this argument is covered by the judgment of Baker Hughes Ltd. & Ors. vs. Hiroo Khushlani & Ors. 2004

 (29) PTC 153 wherein it was held that the argument of well

 informed consumers is not a ground available in defence for an

 action of infringement and passing off. 67. Mr. Lall cited the case of Merck & Co. (supra) wherein

 the Court held that there is nothing improper with defendant's

 purchase of sponsored links to their websites from searches of

 keyword "ZOCOR", because the defendants therein actually

 sold "ZOCOR" manufactured by plaintiff on their website. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 60/137 According to him, the Court relied upon the Geico case to hold

 that Google's sale to advertisers of right to use specific

 trademark as keywords to trigger their ads would constitute use

 in commerce. 68. Google relies on foreign decisions of Jive Commerce

 LLC (supra), Passport Health (supra), Nebo (supra) and

 Cochrane Steel Products (supra) to assert that consumers

 cannot be misled by a labelled ad. Mr. Lall rebutted this

 submission by stating that Google gives no assurances, those

 advertisements which use the plaintiff's trademarks as

 keywords would have all these features. He pointed out that the

 plaint shows many instances where it is impossible to discern to

 whom a website belongs to. He stated that in many instances the

 keyword triggers the advertisement, which shows a phone

 number and the consumer, under the impression that he is

 calling the plaintiff, calls on the phone number and gets duped

 by the advertiser, i.e., a fraudulent party. 69. He argued that in the Cochrane Steel Products (supra)

 the Court found that Google earns revenue through keywords,

 that advertisers purchase keywords and that the highest bidder CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 61/137 gets the keyword. The Court in that case questioned, whether

 the Google advertisement which appears in response to the

 search using the keyword does not enable normally informed

 and reasonably observant internet users, or enables them only

 with difficulty, to ascertain whether the goods or services

 referred to in Google advertisement originates from the

 proprietor of the trademark or an undertaking economically

 connected to it or, which originate from third parties. He stated

 that in that case too, the Court cautioned against use of foreign

 law and that the ads should be clearly marked different from

 organic results and held that use of trademarks as keywords

 could only be permitted if there is no confusion. In the case of

 Vancouver Community College (supra) the Court held that

 keywords can cause confusion. 70. Mr. Lall argued that the case of Google France SARL

 (supra), supports the case of the plaintiff, the conclusion arrived

 by the Grand Chamber was use of a trademark as keyword does

 constitute use in relation to goods or services. Such "use" has

 been further held to have the capability of adversely affecting

 the function of indicating the origin of the mark. There was also CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 62/137 a finding that that even the Internet Service Provider is liable if

 the role played by the Internet Service Provider is not neutral

 and the moment it acquires knowledge of the unlawful nature of

 those data or of that advertiser's activities, it fails to act

 expeditiously to remove or to disable access to the data

 concerned. 71. He stated that in the case of L'Oreal SA (supra) there

 were several findings in favour of the plaintiff, he stated the

 said judgment was based on article 14 of the EU Directive

 200/31 which stipulates a requirement wherein the intermediary

 does not have actual knowledge of the illegal activities and

 upon obtaining such knowledge acts expeditiously to remove or

 disable access to the information. The Court ultimately found

 that the proprietor of a trademark is entitled to prevent an online

 marketplace operator from advertising - on the basis of a

 keyword which is identical to his trademark and which has been

 selected in an internet referencing service by that operator. The

 Court also stated that the use of a keyword is also objectionable.

 This is especially so where the intermediary plays an active role

 as to give it knowledge of, or control over, the data. The Court CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 63/137 had held that when an operator played an active role in

 promoting the product, the safe harbour provisions would not

 apply to such an operator. 72. In case of Victor Andrew Wilson (supra) it was held that

 the plaintiff therein was the owner of the "Mr. Spicy" trademark

 and attempted to sue third parties and Yahoo for choice of

 descriptive words such as "Spicy", "spicy soup", etc. as

 keywords. It was on this basis that the Court concluded that

 there was no infringement and there could be no objections to

 Yahoo soliciting third party use of "Mr. Spicy" as a keyword in

 return for payment, if the keyword is going to attach goods and

 services that are different from those protected in that case. This

 case too Mr. Lall argued is favourable to the plaintiff but

 recognises the weakness of such a descriptive mark to be

 restricted to goods/services for which it is registered. 73. Mr. Lall went on to argue that Google's argument that the

 Google Ads program is pro user choice and permissible is

 completely flawed as the same is contrary to law. The DG

 report set out in Matrimony.com Ltd. (supra) tells how Google CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 64/137 runs its AdWord policy and how it is actively involved in the

 selection process of keywords by advertisers. 74. He stated that the case of Private Career Training

 (supra) relates to specific advertising by law. The case

 concerned the name of particular university leading to the

 students getting confused. In that case it was stated that the

 sponsored links were displayed along with organic search

 results separated by a vertical line and within either a yellow or

 blue shaded box. In both the cases the search results are clearly

 designated as such or as "sponsored results". Conversely, in the

 present case Google has refused to make such a demarcation. In

 that case the Court opined that selection of the university had a

 high financial cost and personal commitment, hence the

 students are expected to exercise a high degree of care, which is

 contrary to the present case and that these findings are contrary

 to the decision in Baker Hughes (supra). 75. Mr. Lall has submitted that the decision in Chocolat

 Lamontagne (supra) is concerned it has been clearly recorded

 therein that Google sells keywords which is contrary to their

 claims that keywords are never sold or purchased. In this case CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 65/137 too Google used a yellow shaded box to identify the sponsored

 links. The plaintiff in that case had not been successful in

 showing customer confusion on account of defendant's

 activities of a fundraising drive and use the of the term

 "Alternative to" the plaintiff's brand. 76. He relied on the decision of the Competition Commission

 of India in the case of Google India Pvt. Ltd. vs. Addl .

 Commissioner of Income Tax, LNINDORD 2017 ITATND

 3508, to state that Google reviews keywords. Google has

 certified partners who help manage advertisers' AdWords

 accounts and that Google monitors user behaviour and the

 keywords planner tool suggests the suitability of keywords that

 are useful in particular month of the year. He stated that it was

 recorded that Google's AdWords program changes

 advertisements daily and that Google does not merely sell

 advertising space but is actually rendering services.

 FINDINGS 77. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, and

 perused the record, the grievance of the plaintiff is when a user

 on internet searches for the plaintiff by typing "Agarwal CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 66/137 Packers and Movers" despite the plaintiff having a registered

 trademark in its favour with regard to the said mark. The

 website of the advertiser who may be a competitor of the

 plaintiff or having similar / deceptive mark pops up over and

 above the organic results pertaining to the plaintiff within the

 sponsored results by using Google's services. This is because

 of the AdWord program of the defendant Nos.1 & 3 under

 which an advertiser having AdWord account can create, select,

 keywords based on which their advertisement shows up as a

 sponsored link thereby diverting the traffic from the plaintiff's

 website to the advertiser. 78. It is clear from the above that google being a search

 engine does give information about the number of searches

 made, using any popular keyword, that too in the same filed of

 business. So, assuming that, the advertiser chooses the keyword,

 but that is with the help of the information provided by Google.

 In the case in hand, the keyword is "Agarwal Packers and

 Movers", which keyword, has been selected by the advertiser

 on the basis of statistical information provided by Google and

 the keyword is the registered mark of the plaintiff. This factum CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 67/137 is not disputed by Mr.Sethi and Mr.Kathpalia. So, I proceed on

 the basis that the keyword being "Agarwal Packers and

 Movers" is also the registered trademark of the plaintiff. The

 question which needs to be determined is whether this use of

 the mark as a keyword shall amount to infringement of trade

 mark and or passing off. 79. The submission of Mr.Sethi was that the use of the

 keyword does not amount to "use" under the TM Act,

 inasmuch as section 2(2)(b) requires a trademark to be used in a

 printed or other visual representation; before "use" under Section 2(2)(c) can be examined. In other words, a trade mark

 used as a keyword which is invisible to the consumer, is not a

 use of the trademark. He also stated that Section 2(2)(c) of the

 TM Act requires the plaintiff's trademark to be used as a part of

 any statement availability, provision or performance of its

 services for it to qualify as a trademark "use". 80. To understand the submission, it is necessary to

 reproduce the relevant provisions of Sections 2(2)(b) and 2(2)(c) along with Sections 29(6), 29(7), 29(8) and 29(9) of the

 TM Act on which reliance was placed by Mr. Lall: CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 68/137 81. On a reading of the aforesaid provisions it is clear, that

 Section 2(2) of TM Act states, that unless the context otherwise

 provides the use of the mark shall be construed as a reference to

 the use of printed or other visual representation of the mark in

 relation to the goods or services, but the reading of Sections

 29(6), 29(7) and 29(8) of the TM Act, it is seen that the

 legislature has expressly departed from the ordinary

 construction of the expression "use" under this Act to include

 instances to construe "use" under Section 29 of the Act. 82. Mr.Lall is right in saying that Sections 2(2)(b) and 2(2)(c) have to be read in addition to Section 29(6) , 29(7) , 29(8) and 29(9) . Having said that a perusal of Section 29(9) makes it

 clear that an infringement of a trademark can be by way of

 spoken use which is different from printed or visual CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 71/137 representations of the mark. That is invisible use of the mark

 can also infringe a trademark. 83. This I say in view of the Judgment of this Court in the

 case of Hamdard National Foundation & Ors. vs. Hussain

 Dalal & Ors. , 202 (2013) DLT 291, wherein the Court while

 considering the suit for infringement, passing off and

 disparagement held that on a reading of Section 29 (9) it is clear

 that the said section provides that it is an infringement of the

 trademark by way of spoken use of the words which are

 contained in the trademark and the visual representation thereof.

 So, it follows, what is infringement, is not merely visual

 representation of the product in bad light under the provision of Section 29(9) but it is infringement of the trademark if the same

 is caused by way of spoken use of the words and the visual

 representation of the said words. Furthermore, a Division Bench

 of this Court in the case of Kapil Wadhwa & Ors. vs. Samsung

 Electronics Co. Ltd. & Ors. , 194 (2012) DLT 23 has found

 usage of a trademark in the source code i.e., through meta-

 tagging even though invisible to the end-user / consumer to be

 illegal. Albeit the appellant therein sold imported goods CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 72/137 manufactured by the respondent therein although without the

 consent of the latter. 84. Having said that, the question is whether the "invisible

 use" of a mark, as contended by Mr. Sethi shall not amount to

 "use" within meaning of Sections 2(2)(b) and 2(2)(c) of the TM

 Act as it is not a case which falls within the meaning of Section 29. This issue is no more res integra, at least in view of the

 Judgment in the case of Amway India Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. and

 Ors. vs. 1MG Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. , 260 (2019)

 DLT 690, wherein a Coordinate Bench of this court while

 considering the use of the Mark "Amway" by third party e-

 commerce platforms, for promoting their own sales, has held

 the use of a mark in meta-tags or in advertising without the

 consent of the proprietor as a violation of trademark rights of

 the owner. In fact, the Court also held that Section 29 (8) also

 makes it clear that if any advertising of a mark takes unfair

 advantage of the mark or is detrimental to its distinctive

 character even without sale taking place there is an

 infringement. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 73/137 85. On similar lines, is the Judgment of the Bombay High

 Court in People Interactive (I) Pvt. Ltd. (supra) wherein the

 Court observed that the defendant No.1 was using the plaintiff's

 proprietary mark shaadi.com and its domain name

 www.shaadi.com as part of meta-tags in the first defendant's

 website, which was held by the Court to be an attempt to

 misappropriate the plaintiff's mark and hijack the internet

 traffic from the plaintiff's site by a thoroughly dishonest and

 malafide use of plaintiff's mark and name in the meta-tags of

 his own rival website. Paragraph 14 of the Judgment is

 reproduced as under: 86. Having noted the above Judgments, it is clear that the use

 of the mark as meta-tags was held to be infringement of

 trademark. It follows, that invisible use of trademark to divert

 the traffic from proprietors' website to the advertisers' /

 infringers' website shall amount to use of mark for the purpose

 of Section 29 , which includes Section 29 (6) and 29(8) , related

 to advertising. 87. It is the submission of Mr. Sethi that there is a difference

 between the meta-tags and keywords, inasmuch as meta-tags,

 which are words inserted in the HTML code of the website;

 unlike keywords which are only a component of the AdWord

 Program of Google. This submission of Mr.Sethi is denied by

 Mr.Lall by contending keywords are commercial meta-tags

 used in the AdWord Program of Google on payment of charges

 on a pay-per-click basis. The concept of meta-tags and

 keywords can be understood in the following manner which I

 have culled out from the judgments given by various High

 Courts of this country and also pleadings of the defendant Nos.1

 and 3 which I reproduce below: CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 75/137 Meta-tags Keywords
 i. Meta-tags are words i. Keywords are used in the
 inserted in the HTML Google AdWords Program. codes of the website. [HTML coding is used
 to construct a website]
 ii. The words used as ii. Only advertisers who have
 meta-tags provide data enlisted themselves for the
 about the website which AdWords Program can access
 is known as meta-data. the keyword selection tool
 which is optional. Google
 provides a menu of the most
 searched queries in the form
 of keywords. iii. These meta-tags are iii. Keywords are invisible and
 neither visible to the are provided by the
 general public nor does advertisers themselves.
 it affect the display
 page of the website. iv. Used as indices in iv. Keywords are used as a back- organic searches. end trigger not in a TM sense. vi. Effect: According to vi. Effect: According to various
 relevancy, websites are parameters such as bid
 ranked and most amount, choice of keyword,
 relevant is displayed on relevancy the Ad which is
 top of the organic most relevant is displayed on
 results. the top of the sponsored
 results. It must be stated here that the working of the meta-tags

 and also the keywords, as contended by Mr. Sethi is governed CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 76/137 through the use of algorithms. The use of meta-tags within

 codes and keywords with respect to the sponsored search

 produces a desired result which is on the basis of Google's

 algorithm. According to the Oxford Reference website,

 algorithm has been defined as, a "documented series of steps

 which leads to the transformation of some data. For example, in

 order to calculate the sum of a series of numbers a possible

 algorithm would involve repeatedly adding the numbers to be

 summed to a running total. Computer programs are a

 manifestation of algorithms which allow them to be executed

 very quickly". Whereas the Collins online dictionary defines

 algorithm as, "a series of mathematical steps, especially in a

 computer program, which will give you the answer to a

 particular kind of problem or question". 88. It is contended by Mr.Sethi, Google's use of its

 advertising / sponsored result algorithm is different from that of

 the algorithm involved in producing organic search result

 through use of meta-tags. It is the case of Mr. Sethi that it is the

 use of Google's algorithm in the AdWord program which

 triggers a sponsored result i.e., the advertisements, which is CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 77/137 different from the use of meta-tags, which produces Google's

 organic result. He stated that the sponsored result is triggered,

 based on many parameters, wherein each ad is given a quality

 score which is an aggregate of many factors such as relevancy

 of ad to search query, landing page quality, number of ad

 extensions, past history of the advertiser, geographical

 relevance of Ads to the webpage user; which goes to show that

 the AdWords Program is not driven by monetary consideration

 alone. No doubt, that meta-tags and keywords may be

 conceptually different however, both are used to show

 relevancy and appear on the top of the search engine result

 page, whether in organic or sponsored result. The question now

 is whether the use of mark as a keyword, results in diversion of

 traffic from the website of the original proprietor to that of the

 advertiser, this aspect has not been disputed / contested by

 Google, nor it has been argued that the end result from use of

 meta-tags and keywords is different; inasmuch as both are

 instrumental for a search result (whether organic or sponsored)

 to appear on the top of the search engine result page, except that

 sponsored links to the advertiser's web page is marked with the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 78/137 symbol denoting which is followed by the URL, displayed

 in the following manner: . 89. I must also state that it is Google's policy that it will only

 investigate the Ad content and not the keywords, the former

 includes the ad text and ad title but not the keywords. In order

 to assess the quality score, Google also sees the quality of the

 landing page which is primarily the website of the advertiser

 which may or may not have / display the infringed trademark.

 In other words, it is not the case of Google that as keywords are

 not visible to a consumer the use of same shall not amount to an

 infringement of trademark. However, under the AdWords

 Program they also see the landing page i.e., website of the

 advertiser, which in a given case shall have the infringing

 trademark, which is also used as a keyword, in such a scenario,

 Google cannot absolve themselves from the liability of ensuring

 that the keyword is not an infringement of trademark. 90. It is important to note, that had the AdWords Program of

 Google not existed, the only option available to the infringer /

 prospective advertiser in order to achieve the same result would

 have been to change their meta-tags (source coding) which has CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 79/137 already been held to be "use" of trademark and as such

 infringement. This aspect also highlights the fact that the same

 result is sought to be achieved through different means. 91. It may also be necessary for me to refer to the AdWords

 Policy of Google. Before I refer to the same, it is also necessary

 to mention that Google in their affidavits dated March 16, 2015,

 August 13, 2015 and August 03, 2017 has referred to two

 documents, viz. privacy policy and agreement of Google with

 the advertiser i.e., the AdWords Program Agreement. This

 Court may not require to go into the privacy policy and the

 agreement Google has with the advertiser as the same may not

 have any bearing on the issue which has arisen for

 consideration. 92. Mr.Sethi and Mr.Kathpalia have now relied upon

 AdWords Trademark Policy which reads as under: - Details of EU and EFTA policy
 In response to a complaint, we will do a limited
 investigation to see whether the use of a trademarked
 term as a keyword in combination with particular ad text
 is confusing as to the origin of the advertised goods and
 services (such as a keyword and ad that falsely imply
 affiliation with the trademark owner). If the combination
 of a keyword and ad text is confusing, we will disapprove
 the specific ad mentioned in the complaint so that it can't
 run. Under our EU and EFTA policy, the following types of
 ads may use a trademark as a keyword, provided that the
 combination of the keyword and ad is not confusing (as
 described above). The following are examples, and not
 an exhaustive list; • Ads using a trademarked term when that term is being
 used in its ordinary meaning rather than in reference to
 the trademark
 • Ads for competing products or services
 • Ads for resale of the trademarked goods or service CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 82/137 • Ads for the sale of components, replacement parts, or
 compatible products corresponding to a trademark
 • Ads for informational sites about a product or service
 corresponding to the trademark - List of affected regions
 • Åland • Greece • New Caledonia
 • Austria • Guadeloupe • Norway
 • Bassas da India • Guernsey • Poland
 • Belgium • Hungary • Portugal
 • Bouvet Island • Iceland • Reunion
 • Bulgaria • Ireland • Romania
 • Clipperton Island • Isle of Man • Saint Barthelemy
 • Croatia • Italy • Saint Martin
 • Cyprus • Jan Mayen • Saint Pierre and
 • Czech Republic • Jersey Miquelon
 • Denmark • Juan de Nova • Slovakia
 • Estonia Island • Slovenia
 • Europa Island • Latvia • Spain
 • Finland • Liechtenstein • Svalbard
 • France • Lithuania • Sweden
 • French Guiana • Luxembourg • Switzerland
 • French Polynesia • Malta • Tromelin Island
 • French Southern • Martinique • United Kingdom
 and Antarctic Lands • Mayotte • Wallis and Futuna
 • Germany • Monaco
 • Gibraltar • Netherlands
 • Glorioso Islands
 Trademark terms used in keywords
 Google will not investigate or restrict the use of
 trademark terms in keywords, even if a trademark
 complaint is received. Other uses of trademark terms
 The trademark policies described here apply only to the
 use of trademarks in Google AdWords text ads. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 83/137 See information about our policy on the use of
 trademarks in these areas: 93. I find it necessary to reproduce the list of countries /

 territories where the use of the trademark as a keyword would

 be investigated by Google along with the countries / territories

 where such practice is not followed as per the copy of the

 AdWords Policy filed before the Madras High Court in Consim

 I and Consim II: text and also keywords. The investigation with regard to

 keywords was only confined to countries listed in paragraph 93

 above. As per the Annexure-3 of the affidavit dated March 16,

 2015 the change in the AdWords trademark policy was brought

 about in the year 2015, wherein Google has changed the policy

 to mean that they shall "not investigate or restrict the use

 trademark terms in keyword". It appears, the same is for the

 reason already stated above under the submissions of Mr.Sethi CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 91/137 i.e., the use of trademark as keywords does not imply "use". I

 may also state here that as per Google's policy they investigate

 use of the trademark as a keyword but i.e., only confined for the

 EU. This is in addition to the investigation undertaken for an

 infringement of trademark in Ad-title and Ad-text. From the

 above, it is clear that the fact that Google is investigating an Ad

 where use of trademark as a keyword is being used, there

 cannot be any reason why such a procedure is not followed in

 India. It appears this stipulation has been incorporated in their

 policy with regard to EU countries for the reason that there

 might be a chance of deception / confusion in a given Ad which

 pops-up on the basis of search query which has also been

 chosen as a keyword, which may trigger the advertisement

 consisting of the infringed trademark / references to it. 95. It can also be a case where the search query itself is a

 trademark which triggers the advertisement consisting of

 infringed trademark and / or material which may cause

 confusion. For example, a hypothetical advertiser may use the

 following hypothetical advertisement: 96. It has to be noted that in such a scenario the

 advertisement in the sponsored result may not feature the

 trademark of the plaintiff as a whole which is why the overall

 effect of the Ad-content (Ad-title, Ad-text and URL) has to be

 taken into consideration, inasmuch as the idea that is sought to

 be conveyed, i.e., the advertiser is the plaintiff or somehow

 associated with the plaintiff. It is Google 's case that it does not

 investigate use of a trademarked term in the URL, i.e., Google

 restricts its investigation to Ad-text and Ad-title. Whereas it is

 trite law that use of trademarks in URLs or deceptively similar CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 95/137 terms would amount to passing off [Ref: Satyam Infoway Ltd.

 vs. Sifynet Solutions Pvt. Ltd. , (2004) 6 SCC 145]. This I say

 so, because any Ad-content consisting of Ad-title, Ad-text and

 URL which is likely to deceive or cause confusion to an

 average person with imperfect recollection [Ref: Amritdhara

 Pharmacy vs. Satyadeo Gupta , AIR 1963 SC 449], in the

 context of India shall constitute infringement of trademark or

 passing off. A defence may be taken that the trademark of the

 plaintiff does not feature in the said advertisement. This defence

 may sound appealing at a first blush however, it can be seen

 from such advertisement that using the written part / words of a

 trademark an attempt is sought to be made to take advantage of

 the trademark owner's goodwill. The judgment of the Supreme

 Court in the case of Cadila Health Care Ltd. vs. Cadila

 Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , (2001) 5 SCC 73, held as under: 20. Lastly, in Dyechem case [(2000) 5 SCC 573] it
 was observed in para 54 as under These observations appear to us to be contrary to
 the decision of this Court in Amritdhara case [AIR
 1963 SC 449] where it was observed that the
 products will be purchased by both villagers and
 townsfolk, literate as well as illiterate and the
 question has to be approached from the point of
 view of a man of average intelligence and imperfect
 recollection. A trade may relate to goods largely
 sold to illiterate or badly educated persons. The
 purchaser in India cannot be equated with a
 purchaser of goods in England. While we agree that
 in trade mark matters, it is necessary to go into the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 98/137 question of comparable strength, the decision on
 merits in Dyechem case [(2000) 5 SCC 573] does
 not, in our opinion, lay down correct law and we
 hold accordingly." (emphasis supplied)
 Then in such a case allowing individuals who are not

 owners of a trademark to choose a keyword which is a

 trademarked term or use parts of the trademark interspersed

 with generic words in the Ad-title and / or Ad-text may

 constitute an infringement of a trademark and / or passing off.

 It is for this reason, reliance on foreign jurisprudence may be

 misplaced as the European Courts have held the average

 consumer to be normally informed and reasonably attentive

 [Ref: Google France SARL (supra)]. It is unclear that on what

 basis has a distinction been drawn by Google between certain

 countries with regard to the trademark policies so formulated

 and followed. Be that as it may, it is clear from Google's EU

 and EFTA policy that Google provides a higher duty of care in

 a jurisdiction where large portions of the population are internet

 literate. This aspect further fortifies my finding as to why such

 a policy should be followed in India. Mr. Lall is right in relying

 on the judgment of Baker Hughes Ltd. & Ors. (supra) to state CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 99/137 that even sophisticated consumers can be confused and the

 affidavit filed by Mr. Gaurav Bakshi dated October 27, 2015

 supports the proposition advanced by Mr. Lall. 97. Google has stated that it also factors in the quality of the

 landing page which is what the consumer would be directed to

 in case if he were to click on the sponsored results. 98. One of the pleas of Mr. Sethi was that the keyword

 planner tool is an optional software and keywords provided by

 the advertisers may have been provided by the keyword planner

 tool or may not be part of the keyword planner tool at all. This

 submission of Mr. Sethi has no bearing on the issue that is

 being decided by this Court in these applications, though on a

 prima facie view, in the eventuality a trademark is used as a

 keyword and what is the effect thereof in the context of TM

 Act. Suffice to state, if the keyword is not a trademark then

 there cannot be a question of infringement or passing off of the

 trademark. However, it is a conceded position that an advertiser

 can provide a keyword which is not part of the keyword planner

 tool only goes to show that in such a case registered trademarks

 including well known trademarks should be accorded a higher CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 100/137 degree of protection by Google through its policies so as to

 ensure that the goodwill of the marks is safeguarded. In a

 situation where these safeguards are not in place the trademark

 owner must enter the Google AdWords program in order to

 protect its own goodwill, which is the case of the plaintiff as

 well. 99. Although Mr. Sethi has stated that the keyword planner

 tool is an optional software, however, the same is contrary to

 the stand taken by Google wherein it has been stated that the

 quality score of the advertisement is based on an aggregate of

 factors such as relevancy of Ads, keywords, quality of landing

 page, etc., it is clear that the advertiser has much to gain from

 bidding on trademark as keywords. The advertiser would want

 his own Ad to appear on top of the sponsored results list in

 order to gain maximum publicity. Even though, the keyword

 planner tool may not be mandatory but if not used by an

 advertiser, may result in poorer quality score of the Ad thereby

 reducing the chances for the Ad to appear in the sponsored

 result list. Resultantly, it may be stated that the same though not

 mandatory has become essential for an advertiser. It was also CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 101/137 the plea of Mr. Sethi that trademarks are even permitted in ad-

 text by resellers, informational sites and authorized advertisers

 and as such may not constitute an infringement. This plea of

 Mr. Sethi is not vehemently opposed by Mr. Lall in his

 rejoinder submission while countering the reliance placed by

 Mr. Sethi on the Judgment of Merck & Co. (supra) by stating

 that the defendant (advertisers) therein being the resellers of the

 plaintiff's (Trademark owner's) product can be permitted to use

 the trademark being a fair use. In other words, where the use of

 trademark as a keyword as fair / bonafide use, is an exception to

 infringement and / or passing off. 100. Though Mr. Sethi did argue that Google algorithmically

 reviews the advertisements submitted in violation of Google ad

 policies such as ads supporting advertisements under the

 PCPNDT Act and the same are blocked, but the review does not

 remove the trademark infringing ads and the same are only

 investigated after complaint under the trademark /

 misrepresentation policy, but the same does not answer the

 issue raised by Mr. Lall that use of trademark as a keyword

 need to be reviewed and acted upon by Google. The CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 102/137 advertisement not featuring a trademark and using trademark as

 a keyword even if not infringing Google's policies creates

 confusion as to the origin of goods and services, the keyword

 along with the overall effect of the advertisement, (including

 Ad-title, Ad-text and URL) needs to be investigated in terms of

 paragraph 96 above. 101. The plea of Mr. Sethi that if the use of trademarks as

 keywords were to be considered as use under the TM Act, then

 Section 47 of the TM Act would be defeated as it states, non-

 use of trademark for five years would open the possibility of

 cancellation proceedings; this plea is unmerited. In the case in

 hand, the issue pertains to the use of a trademark as keyword by

 a third party and not non-use of the trademark by the original

 owner. This Court need not go into this issue as the instant suit

 pertains to use of trademarks by third parties and not non-use of

 the trademark. 102. I must at this stage state that it is a conceded position that

 up to 2009, Google in terms of its AdWords Policy as

 applicable to India did not allow the trademark as a keyword. It

 was only during the hearing of the Consim I before the Madras CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 103/137 High Court, did Google come up with a policy that they shall

 not investigate the use of trademark as a keyword. But this

 aspect demonstrates that it was the thought process of Google

 that a trademark cannot be used as a keyword. In fact, it is a

 policy which is being followed by Google to the extent that they

 shall investigate the use of trademark as a keyword in EU &

 EFTA countries and not in India. 103. One of the pleas of Mr. Sethi was that the suit is bad for

 non-joinder of necessary parties such as Safe Packers and

 Movers, Gati Ltd., DTC Packers and Movers which according

 to him are the competitors of the plaintiff in the business. The

 plea is unmerited for the simple reason inasmuch as it is not the

 case of the plaintiff that the names as suggested by the plaintiff

 have in fact used the trademark of the plaintiff as a keyword to

 score over the plaintiff and pop-up above the plaintiff in the

 Google search result page. In the absence of parties which have

 bid for the trademark of the plaintiff and any statement on

 record to that effect that the entities so named by Mr. Sethi have

 bid upon the trademark of the plaintiff as a keyword, they are

 not a necessary party. Hence to that extent, there is no cause of CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 104/137 action for the plaintiff against those entities to be made parties

 in this suit. Be that as it may, the submission of Mr. Sethi does

 suggest that the said entities being competitors of the plaintiff

 may bid for a trademark of the plaintiff as a keyword under the

 AdWords Program of Google. So, it is not disputed that a

 competitor may bid for a trademark of an entity to ensure its ads

 pop-up above the entity owning the trademark in the search

 results. 104. Regarding the reliance placed by the parties on the case

 of Consim I and Consim II, the observations on the issue of

 functioning of meta-tags and keywords have been relied upon

 by this Court in the paragraphs above; however, it may be stated

 that the issue before the Madras High Court was that the

 Trademark of the plaintiff / appellant therein was appearing in

 the Adtext and Adtitle of the defendants / respondents therein.

 The Madras High Court also looked into the generic /

 descriptive nature of the words appearing in the Ad-text and

 Ad-title, which is not the case here. It is the stand taken by

 Google and so submitted by Mr. Sethi that the current Google

 policy states that "Google does not allow any third party to put CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 105/137 / publish / refer to a Trademark of an owner in the Adtext /

 Adtitle as per its policy". Since this statement has already been

 taken on record that the Trademarks of the plaintiff shall not

 appear in the Adtext and Adtitle, the factual situation has

 departed from what was the issue before the Madras High

 Court. I may also state that the appearance of the sponsored

 links was different from what it is today, i.e., earlier (at the time

 of Consim I and Consim II) the sponsored links appeared on

 the search engine results page with a yellow / blue background.

 The issue that whether these ads appeared on the top of the

 organic search results or on the right-hand side of the organic

 search results; Mr. Lall states that the former was the scenario,

 whereas the counsels for Google have pointed to the policy as

 existing then to state that the sponsored results could have also

 appeared on top of the search engine results page. Be that as it

 may, the position which exists today is that the sponsored links

 appear on top of the organic search results. 105. The Division Bench of Madras High Court in Consim II

 while stating that the appellant / plaintiff is entitled for

 injunction observed that Google has been adopting double CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 106/137 standards as the benefits given to the respondent Nos. 2 - 4

 (advertisers) therein were not given to the appellant (Trademark

 owner). Even in the instant case, it is unclear as to how exactly

 a sponsored link is given the first rank and placed on top of the

 sponsored search results, over above the organic search results

 i.e., it is unclear whether some components as listed out by Mr.

 Sethi being; bid amount, quality of landing page, relevancy of

 ads etc. are given more weightage than others. It has also not

 been explained by the defendants the functioning of their

 current policy (as available online) which also incorporates a

 broad search and negative search option [Ref. Paragraph 50

 expert witness testimony in judgment of Intercity Group (NZ)

 (supra)]. Since, it is Google's proprietary algorithm, which

 controls not only the ranking, place of appearance and review of

 ads, this issue would have to be looked into at the time of trial.

 It is clear from the current Trademark policy of Google that it

 can "either prohibit all use or allow all use of a particular term

 by an advertiser" and despite such prohibition on use of a

 Trademark term in Adtext and Adtitle, there are possibilities of

 passing off. In Consim II it had been clearly stated by the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 107/137 Madras High Court that it is clear that the search engine has

 control over selection of keywords by an advertiser but the

 search engine may not be aware of all the registered trademarks

 in various jurisdictions and in respect of various goods and

 services. I am in agreement with this observation and state that

 once the search engine has been made aware of a registered

 Trademark in a certain jurisdiction, it is incumbent upon the

 search engine to exercise a higher duty of care to ensure

 protection of the goodwill attached to such Trademark. Especially in light of the Judgment of a Coordinate Bench of

 this Court in the case of DRS Logistics (P) Ltd. vs. Rajesh

 Agarwal & Ors. , 2013 SCC Online Del 1299 wherein the mark

 of the plaintiff in paragraph 15 has been declared as a well-

 known trademark. 106. While considering the judgments relied upon by the

 counsels for Google, I may refer to the judgment of the

 Supreme Court in the case of Forasol vs. Oil and Natural Gas

 Commission , AIR 1984 SC 241, wherein the Court while

 recognizing the high persuasive value of decision of the foreign

 Courts cautioned by stating that the rule laid down in those CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 108/137 particular cases must be judged in the Indian contextual

 background including the prevalent statutes and the legal

 procedure and the realities which exist in this country. This

 observation becomes relevant in the context of evaluating the

 aspect of confusion since in the cases of Google France SARL

 (Supra), L'Oreal SA (supra), Google Ireland Ltd. (supra),

 Cosmetic Warriors (supra), Intercity Group (NZ) (supra), NZ

 Fintech (supra), Private Career Training (supra), Chocolat

 Lamontagne (supra), Vancouver Community College (supra)

 and Cochrane Steel Products (supra), wherein the average

 consumer has been taken to be normally informed and

 reasonably attentive or liable to exercise a higher duty of care

 while searching on the internet, which as held by this Court

 above is not the definition of an average consumer in this

 country. Hence reliance on these judgments is misplaced. 107. In so far as the reliance placed by Mr. Sethi on the

 judgment of the Australian Court in the case of Veda

 Advantage (supra) is concerned, he contended that keyword

 meta-tags are trademarked words embedded in the source code

 of a website by the creator, unlike the keywords used by Google CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 109/137 in the AdWords Program, meta-tags are not entirely invisible.

 They can be located by someone who knows what to look for,

 whereas trademarked as keywords are invisible to the

 consumer; and they are not used as a trademark and their

 invisible use shall not amount to infringement, nor does a

 keyword denote connection in trade between the advertiser and

 the trademark owner. Keywords are also not being used to

 distinguish the service of one trader from another. Suffice to

 state, I have already in paragraph 88 above held that the effect

 of meta-tags and keywords is the same. I have also held above

 that even invisible use of a trademark would constitute "use"

 within the meaning of the provisions of the TM Act. That part,

 I have also held that the result of use of meta-tags and keywords

 is not different as both are instrumental for a search result to

 appear on the top of the search engine result page except that

 the sponsored links to the advertisers' web page is marked with

 the symbol denoting "Ad", which is followed by the URL. So,

 the keyword even assuming is invisible, the effect it has for

 advertising is that the traffic of the website of the trademark

 owner is diverted to that of the advertiser which shall have the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 110/137 effect of passing off of the goods and services of the trademark

 owner as that of the advertiser. 108. Mr. Lall is right in stating that the keywords embedded

 in meta-tags are used in indexing of website, which is what

 keywords of Google AdWords Program are used for and in any

 case, Mr. Sethi has not been able to distinguish the precedents

 in the case of People Interactive (supra) and Mattel (supra).

 Even on the facts, this case can be differentiated since in that

 case the advertiser was providing services which were ancillary

 to the trademark owner. In other words, the trademark owner

 was providing financial services related to credit rating whereas

 the advertiser conducted a business assisting the consumers

 with poor credit rating and rectifying errors in the credit reports

 given by the proprietor of the trademark. Furthermore, it was

 stated that an ordinary and reasonable consumer in the context

 of Australia would not get confused between the organic search

 result and the sponsored search result, which appears within a

 yellow ad box. Even in that case the Court has stated in

 paragraphs 253 and 263 that certain words in the Adtext

 including the single word trademark of the owner which was CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 111/137 visible, suffixed with generic words was likely to cause

 confusion. The definition of an average consumer in India has

 been well settled. For the reasons above, this judgment has no

 applicability in the facts of this case. 109. In so far as the reliance placed by Mr. Sethi in the case of

 Reed Executive (supra) making similar submissions that

 invisible use may not be use at all as no meaning is being

 conveyed to anyone and it is only when the user clicks through

 the advertisement, he finds misleading material on web page of

 the advertiser and not on advertisement appearing on search

 engine results page and the same may not be attributable to

 Google, is concerned, I have already held, that even invisible

 use of trademark more specifically would constitute a use and in

 fact the precedents being available in the country in the form of

 People Interactive (supra), Mattel (supra), Amway India (supra) and Christian Louboutin SAS vs. Nakul Bajaj & Ors. ,

 (2018) 253 DLT 728 the reliance place on the judgment of Reed

 Executive (supra) is misplaced. The issue is well settled. The

 question is not when the user clicks through the advertisement,

 he finds misleading material on web page of advertiser, but CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 112/137 whether by the use of invisible use of a trademark, the

 advertisement of the advertiser scores a march over the organic

 search result, where the website of the trademark owner

 appears. I may state here, Mr. Lall by drawing my attention to

 paragraph 140 of the judgement has stated that the Court has

 clearly stated that use as a reserved word can be regarded as use

 in course of trade, the Court has not expressed its opinion. In

 any case, the law in this regard even in that jurisdiction has

 changed since the judgments of the European Court of Justice in

 the cases of Google France SARL (supra), L'Oreal SA (supra)

 and the judgment in the case of Interflora Inc. vs. Marks &

 Spencer, [2015] F.S.R. 10. Needless to state that this case can

 be differentiated on the ground of the average consumer being

 normally informed and reasonably attentive. Be that as it may,

 the laws prevailing in the UK are different and the issue in the

 present case has to be judged in the context of Indian Laws and

 precedents [Ref: Forasol (supra)] 110. While relying on the judgment of Merck & Co. (supra),

 Mr. Sethi stated that the internal use of trademark does not

 constitute as trademark use. The United States District Court CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 113/137 held that the advertiser bidding on the trademark as a keyword,

 was selling the trademarked drug "ZOCOR" for cholesterol

 medication which was manufactured by the Canadian affiliate

 of the trademark owner and the same does not amount to

 infringement in context of the laws prevalent in the United

 States. Based on the judgments delivered by the Courts in India,

 this reliance is totally misplaced. I must state here that Mr. Lall

 has fairly conceded, the fair use of trademark may not constitute

 infringement inasmuch as there is nothing wrong in the

 purchase of trademark as keyword where the advertisers sold

 medicines manufactured by the trademark owner. 111. In Victor Andrew Wilson (supra), on which reliance has

 been placed by Mr. Sethi to contend that the use of trademark as

 a back-end trigger does not amount to infringement and passing

 off which requires some commercial activity such as offers for

 sale, signs, corresponding to trademarks by the online service

 provider. This judgment may not be applicable to the facts of

 this case as in that case, the trademark was "Mr. Spicy" and the

 owner attempted to sue third-party and Yahoo for use of

 descriptive words such as "spicy", "spicy soup", etc., as CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 114/137 keywords. Firstly, respondent therein was Yahoo and not

 Google. Even the policy that is being followed by Yahoo has

 not been placed on record. That apart, it was held that there is

 no infringement if the keyword is going to be attached to goods

 and services which are different from those protected in that

 case. In any case, the weakness of such a descriptive mark was

 held to be restricted to goods and services for which it is

 registered. 112. Insofar as the reliance placed on the judgments by Mr.

 Sethi of the Canadian Courts do not aid the case of Google.

 Private Career Training (supra) has been relied on by Mr.

 Sethi to contend that keyword advertising is not different from

 accepted market practice of a company locating its

 advertisement close to a competitor's in a traditional advertising

 space such as yellow book and such practice is not misleading.

 Suffice to state the judgment is distinguishable on facts

 inasmuch as the Court held that the students who are concerned

 with the Ads had to exercise higher duty of care while

 distinguishing ads from the organic search result and secondly

 the sponsored result which was appearing in a yellow shaded CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 115/137 box was sufficient to distinguish the website of the parties and

 the parties before the Court were the advertiser / owner and not

 Google or YAHOO or any search engine. In Chocolat

 Lamontagne (supra), the submission of Mr. Sethi was,

 keyword advertising is not different from accepted market

 practice. In this case too the search results appearing which

 were in French in the sponsored results were clearly

 distinguishable as the hyperlinks listed under the heading

 sponsored links were preceded by the phrase 'Alternative to

 Lamontagne chocolate and other products' Similar is the

 position in so far as the judgment relied upon by Mr. Sethi in

 the case of Vancouver Community College (supra). The

 Courts of Canada have also proceeded in terms of Canadian

 laws on the subject and also on a premise that the average

 consumer is internet literate and can differentiate sponsored

 results from organic results. The Court in this case however,

 made certain findings which may be noted such as in paragraph

 55, the aspect of confusion is to be determined on the search

 engine result page and the Court came to a conclusion in that

 case, the components of the tort of passing off were met. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 116/137 Therefore, one cannot overlook the fact that there is a

 possibility of confusion even in cases where the consumers are

 aware of the functioning of search engines. These judgments do

 not act as a bulwark for the case as presented by the counsels

 for Google. 113. Reliance placed by Mr. Sethi on the Judgement of

 Google France SARL (supra) to contend that the use of

 trademark as back-end trigger does not amount to infringement

 and passing off. According to him, Google has not used their

 mark in course of its trade or in relation to goods or services in

 respect of which the trademark is registered or within its

 advertising or in a manner to have taken unfair advantage or in

 a manner detrimental to distinctive character or repute of

 plaintiff's trademarks or in a manner likely to be taken as being

 used as a trademark. In other words, Mr. Sethi agrees that the

 use of trademark as a keyword held to be use, but only where

 the advertisement does not enable an average internet user or

 enables the user with great difficulty to ascertain the origin of

 goods or services referred therein. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 117/137 114. I am unable to agree with the submission of Mr. Sethi as

 the judgment on which reliance has been placed by Mr. Sethi is

 from a European Court. The observation of the Court has to be

 read in the context of a purchaser in Europe unlike a purchaser

 in India. It is a settled law that an average consumer in India is

 of average intelligence and imperfect recollection [Ref. Amritdhara Pharmacy (supra)] 115. In so far as the judgment in the case of L'Oreal SA

 (supra) and Google Ireland Ltd. (supra) is concerned, similar

 would be my conclusion as concluded by me in the case of

 Google France SARL (supra), inasmuch as the issue before the

 European Court of Justice was to an extent similar to that in the

 present case, wherein the trademark owner had agitated that

 third parties had been using the trademark of the owner as the

 keyword in order to feature prominently on the search engine

 results page. However, the Court had examined this issue in the

 context of the average consumer in Europe and the European

 Laws / Directives wherein in the Court primarily examined the

 adverse impact of use of such mark on functions of a trademark.

 However, there was a caveat that even in such a scenario the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 118/137 Court had remarked in paragraph 83 that whether the function

 of a trademark is adversely affected would depend on a

 particular manner in which the Ad is presented and such

 presentation does not enable the average consumer therein to

 ascertain the origin of goods and services. The Court further

 went on to note that in cases where the Ad does not suggest an

 economic link but remains vague to the origin of goods and

 services and the internet consumer is unable to determine on the

 basis of the advertising link and commercial message attached

 thereto whether the advertiser is a third party with regard to the

 proprietor of the trademark or not, or economically related to it,

 or is a third-party, the Court held that the conclusion must be

 that there is an adverse effect on the function of the trademark.

 This question, the European Court of Justice left open for the

 National Courts to assess on a case-by-case basis and even the

 role played by the service provider whether neutral or not is to

 be assessed by the National Courts. To this extent I am in

 agreement with the findings in Google France SARL (supra).

 The question of neutrality of the service provider in this case

 being Google would be subject matter of trial. A Coordinate CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 119/137 Bench of this Court in Christian Louboutin (supra), while

 answering the questions related to meta-tagging vis-à-vis

 intermediaries held as under: keyword-tags, with a view to increasing the hits
 which the Defendant's website obtains from search
 engines like Google. 84. The trademark owner loses its huge customer
 base especially in the case of luxury products. If the
 products turn out to be counterfeit or not up to the
 mark, then it is the trademark owner's brand equity
 which is diluted. The seller himself does not suffer.
 Such immunity is beyond what is contemplated to
 intermediaries under Section 79 of the IT Act. While Section 79 of the IT Act is to protect genuine
 intermediaries, it cannot be abused by extending
 such protection to those persons who are not
 intermediaries and are active participants in the
 unlawful act. Moreover, if the sellers themselves are
 located on foreign shores and the trade mark owner
 cannot exercise any remedy against the said seller
 who is selling counterfeits on the e-commerce
 platform, then the trade mark owner cannot be left
 remediless." CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 122/137 (emphasis supplied) 116. Having noted the aforesaid position of law and it is the

 case of Google as contended by Mr. Sethi that Google is an

 intermediary is unmerited, surely there is an obligation on part

 of Google to ascertain that the keyword chosen by the advertiser

 is not a trademark and even if it is a trademark the same has

 been licensed / assigned. Not ascertaining this factum by

 Google, it cannot take / seek the benefit of exemption under Section 79 of the IT Act as it has been held in the above

 judgment as amounting to legalising the infringing activity.

 That apart, the conclusion of the Coordinate Bench in

 paragraphs of 83 and 84 shall apply on all fours to the facts of

 this case. In view of this conclusion, the plea of Mr. Sethi that

 Google is not an arbiter of third party disputes and shall not

 investigate complaints of violation of trademark infringement is

 unmerited, hence rejected. 117. The reliance placed by Mr. Sethi in Cosmetic Warriors

 (supra) to contend that use of third-party trademarks as

 keyword does not constitute trademark violation is also not

 appealing. This judgment seems to be an after effect of the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 123/137 decisions in Google France SARL (supra) and L'Oreal SA

 (supra) since I have dealt with the issue in the above paragraphs

 the reliance on European Law would not help the case of

 Google. In any case, the matter therein pertained to Amazon

 and its advertising policies which is not the case here. The

 Court had considered three scenarios for a possibility of

 confusion, out of which only the first and second scenarios are

 of interest. The first and second scenario pertained to

 sponsored links on intermediary websites wherein a consumer

 would be able to see the trademark in the advertisement and in

 the other where the consumer cannot see the trademark term in

 the advertisement. In the case of the former it was held to be

 detrimental to the function of a trademark and in the latter, it

 was stated that the consumers would be aware of appearances of

 sponsored links. Whether this awareness exists in this country is

 unclear and would be subject to Trial especially so when there

 are chances of the advertisements of the trademark owner often

 appearing in the sponsored results with blurred lines of

 distinction between sponsored results and organic results in a

 case where an average Indian consumer has specifically typed a CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 124/137 trademarked term. The third scenario concerned the layout of

 Amazon website and the appearances of the trademark therein

 that too when there was no overt statement that Amazon did not

 sell the products of the trademark owner, which is not a

 question for consideration before this Court. 118. In Intercity Group (NZ) (supra) and NZ Fintech

 (supra), the same were relied upon by Mr. Sethi to contend that

 trademark as keyword are not seen or known or understood by a

 consumer and the same is not be taken as anything let alone

 amounting to use of trademark. The said judgment is in the

 context of laws of New Zealand which are different from those

 in India and Mr. Lall is right in contending that Section 89 of

 the New Zealand Act does not include advertisement as

 infringement, which position is otherwise in this country as I

 have referred to the provisions of Section 29 (6) and Section 29

 (8) of the TM Act. Even in Intercity Group (NZ) (supra), the

 average consumer has been taken to be well-informed and

 reasonably observant but even so the Court has observed that

 there may exist a possibility of confusion as the case before the

 New Zealand Court was that the advertiser had bid on the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 125/137 trademark as keyword being InterCity, which appeared on the

 search engine results page along with the website of the

 advertiser. In NZ Fintech (supra), the plaintiff therein had

 alleged that the defendant therein was using its mark

 "MOOLA" as a keyword. Whether such use resulted in

 sufficient number of consumers perceiving such use by the

 defendant therein to be a use of the trademark, was to be a

 matter of trial. These judgments therefore are distinguishable

 on facts. However, the New Zealand Court too in both the

 aforementioned judgments had interpretated their own law to

 mean that the use of trademark as a keyword, amounts to use in

 the course of trade. The question which further needs to be

 tried through the trial is whether there is a difference in the

 search engine results page when searching with capital letters,

 spaces, symbols such as hyphens, etc. and the difference

 thereof. 119. In so far as the reliance placed in Cochrane Steel

 Products (supra) is concerned, Mr. Sethi contended that it is

 unnatural for a consumer to get mislead by a clearly labelled Ad

 which identifies the source. If neither the advertisement nor the CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 126/137 advertisers' website contains any reference to the trademark

 owners products or services, then no confusion exists nor there

 is any evidence that any actual confusion existed and as per

 common market practice, advertisements are placed close to the

 competitors' advertisements in a yellow book. The trademark

 of the appellant therein was "CLEARVU" which was itself an

 unregistered mark. Wherein it was also held by the Court that

 the organic search result were clearly distinguishable from that

 of the sponsored search result. The said judgment has no

 applicability as the judgment has held that the average

 consumer in South Africa to be a person who is normally

 informed and reasonably observant internet user, which may not

 be the position in the Indian context. The case of Esquire

 Electronics Ltd. (supra) is distinguishable from the case at

 hand as the issue to be decided by the South African Court

 pertained to trading in prerecorded video tapes upon which a

 registered trademark was recorded through magnetic signals.

 Needless to state, that the facts at hand are very different to the

 one sought to be relied upon by the counsels for Google even so CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 127/137 the judgment has to be read in the context of the South African

 Laws. 120. Reliance has been placed in Nebo (supra) by Mr. Sethi to

 contend that the keywords do not form part of advertisement

 cannot be used for identifying a particular ad as the same

 keyword may be used for multiple advertisements. Users do

 not know the basis of which keyword, a particular

 advertisement is shown or which keyword co-relates with the

 said advertisement. In other words, keywords do not create a

 possibility of confusion of any products of owner with that of

 the advertisement. I am not in agreement with the submission

 made by Mr. Sethi more so with regard to my conclusions

 above and in the context of law laid down by the Indian Courts

 of which a reference has been given above. Even on facts this

 case is distinguishable as the search engine involved in the said

 case was Yandex and the policies governing the advertisements

 through keywords is different from that of Google in the present

 case. Be that as it may, the statutory law governing trademark

 law is very different in Russia as compared to that of the Indian

 Laws. As I have already concluded above, that use of CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 128/137 trademarks as keywords amounts to use in the course of trade in

 terms of the TM Act and the judgments of the Indian Courts in

 this regard, this case provides no succour to the case of the

 counsels for Google. 121. By relying upon the judgment in the case of Alzheimer's

 Disease and Related Disorders Association (supra) the

 contention of Mr. Sethi primarily is that trademark as keywords

 alone without additional behavior that confuses consumers is

 not actionable. In Jive Commerce LLC (supra), consumers are

 unlikely to be confused as the sponsored links clearly marked as

 Ad and the owner's Ad being directly below the sponsored

 search result in the organic search result there cannot be any

 confusion. These judgements of the Courts of the United States

 of America do not avail the case of Google, since in the case of

 Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association

 (supra) the Court therein had opined that the mark in question

 was weak and since the consumers were searching for a generic

 term, therefore the likelihood of confusion was less. Similar

 position exits in the case of Jive Commerce LLC (supra)

 wherein the mark of the plaintiff / owner was not registered, it CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 129/137 remained unclear under which class the said mark therein was

 to be categorised even in which case the Court came to a

 conclusion that the mark was either descriptive or suggestive

 which is not the case here. Similar is the position in Passport

 Health (supra) where the mark of the trademark owner being

 "PASSPORT HEALTH" was considered to be weak and the

 Court had observed that the sponsored results could easily be

 differentiated from the organic results as they were appearing

 on the right-hand side titled with the words "related searches",

 this position no longer exits as of now. 122. Mr. Sethi has also placed reliance on the judgment in the

 case of Matrimony.com Ltd. (supra) of Competition

 Commission of India to contend that Google keyword bidding

 process promotes competition and provides some benefits and

 choice as compared to traditional advertising. To this

 submission, Mr. Sethi has accepted the fact that the trademark

 can be used as a keyword to divert the traffic from the website

 of the owner to that of the advertiser to encourage competition

 this according to this Court may in a given case amount to

 infringement and / or passing off. CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 130/137 123. Mr. Sethi has relied upon Havells India Ltd. (supra) to

 contend that advertisement is a part of free speech and right to

 carry any business. Competitors use of trademark is protected

 within the ad-text of a competitor provided the competitive

 advertisement under Section 29 (6) and 29 (8) of TM Act are

 complied with. There cannot be any dispute, that the

 advertisement is part of free speech, but surely that free speech

 cannot be at the cost of the trademark of an owner which

 amounts to a misleading advertisement. 124. Fischerwerke GmbH & Co. (supra) is on similar

 proposition that use of third-party trademarks does not

 constitute trademark infringement. Reliance on this case is

 misplaced due to the reason that firstly, that the search engine

 involved in that case was Baidu and not Google and; secondly

 the advertising policy of the said search engine has not been

 produced before this Court and even the law related to

 trademarks in that case is different to the case at hand. As per

 the stand of Google that up to 2013, even they did not allow the

 trademarks to be used as keywords in China, whether this CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 131/137 position changed after the judgment in the relied upon case is

 unclear. 125. In so far as the submission of Mr. Sethi that Google

 investigates the Ads which under its counterfeit /

 misrepresentation policy is concerned, the same does not

 answer the use of trademark as keyword by an advertiser as

 infringement of trademark. Even if Google under the

 misrepresentation policy investigates an infringing Ad but only

 after a complaint, there is no doubt that the usage of trademark

 as keyword results in diversion of the traffic from the website of

 the trademark owner to the webpage of the advertiser which

 causes prejudice to the owner of the trademark in terms of

 goodwill and credibility with respect to the services and should

 be investigated by Google. In a way the advertiser through

 oblique motives is cashing upon the goodwill of the trademark

 owner for his own benefit and through which process Google is

 earning revenue and as such is equally liable for the omissions

 and commissions of the advertiser. It also follows that when the

 use of trademark as a keyword constitutes infringement /

 passing off which amounts to violation of rights accrued in CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 132/137 favour of the proprietor under the provisions of the TM Act

 then on the same analogy that Google investigates

 advertisements which are prohibited under law, Google should

 also investigate the advertisements in this case as well. 126. This Court also at this stage cannot overlook the affidavit

 dated October 27, 2015 filed by Gaurav Bakshi wherein he has

 stated as under: The aforesaid does prima facie reveal that with usage of

 trademark of plaintiff as a keyword the traffic from the webpage

 of the plaintiff is being diverted to the webpage of the

 competitor / advertiser which means that a normal consumer

 who on typing the trademark of plaintiff as a search query was

 led to a webpage which had caused confusion regarding the

 origin of the webpage, whether belonging to the plaintiff or not. In cases of intellectual property, the Courts must also be

 mindful of the fact that it is ultimately the public at large which

 gets cheated and feels the brunt of spurious goods and services

 in the market [Ref: Hindustan Pencils (P) Ltd. vs. India

 Stationery Products Co. & Ors. , AIR 1990 Delhi 19]. 127. I must state here that the plaintiff can seek protection of

 its trademarks which are registered in view of Section 28 of the

 TM Act, but cannot have any right on surnames / generic words CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 135/137 like Packers or Movers individually. Having said that in view

 of my above discussion, the applications are liable to be

 allowed, subject to final determination of the suit in the

 following manner: 128. I must also state here that the case of defendant No.2,

 who has been made as a party, is as noted in paragraphs 48 to

 52 above, it is clear that defendant No.2 is not using the

 mechanism of providing trademarks as keyword for triggering

 the ads. This stand has been taken on record and the defendant

 No.2 shall remain bound by their statement. 129. The above directions are subject to the final

 determination of the suit. The aforesaid conclusion of mine is

 only a prima facie conclusion and nothing stated above shall be

 construed as a final determination of the suit. The applications

 being I.As. 21153/2011 and 4474/2014 are disposed of. List

 this suit and pending applications subject to the orders of

 Hon'ble the Chief Justice before the Roster Bench on the date

 fixed. No costs. V. KAMESWAR RAO, J

 OCTOBER 30, 2021/aky/jg CS (COMM) 1/2017 Page 137/137