This Writ Petition has been filed with a prayer to

 protect the deposits, investments made by members of the Petitioner-Trust

 and similarly situated other investors and to issue a writ of mandamus

 and/or any other appropriate writ/order/direction to opposite parties 2 to

 7-Banks to give refund and recovery of the investments/deposits made by

 the public investors on due production of their receipts. 2. Petitioners' case in a nutshell is that petitioner No.1 in the writ

 petition is a registered Trust of duped and gullible thousands and

 thousands of investors of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh,

 who have invested their money with M/s Fine Indisales Pvt. Ltd. through

 opposite party-Banks, i.e., ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, YES Bank

 and IDBI Bank (opposite parties 2 to 6). Petitioner No.2 is the President of

 petitioner No.1-Trust. Members of the Trust, who are the investors, are

 poor people of the society working as rickshaw pullers, taxi drivers,

 shopkeepers, Class-IV employees of private companies, hotels and other

 establishments, tea-shop owners, cabin holders etc., who invested their life 3 savings with a hope of getting effective and speedy return from the

Company. The deposits made by these umpteen number of investors with

opposite party Nos. 2 to 6-Banks were defreezed by the statutory orders

under Section 102 of the Code of Criminal Procedure by the Crimes

Department of the State of Odisha and presently the investments/deposits

of these investors are in the lawful custody of learned S.D.J.M., Balasore.

Opposite party No.7-M/s Fine Indisales Pvt. Ltd. (for short 'the Company'),

a Company registered under the Companies Act , promoted a multi-level

marketing business and floated the Scheme/Project on the Website

without obtaining any permission from the Reserve Bank of India. The said

Company is a non-banking financial Company. The Company represented

on the Website that its registered office is in Uttar Pradesh and Corporate

office in Mumbai. Members of the Trust being enamored by the brochures

and prospectus published on the website applied for distributorship/

membership of the said Company and each one deposited/subscribed

Rs.10,000/- to Rs.2,50,000/- for purchase of the purported product as

published on the website in opposite parties 2 to 6-Banks in the name of

opposite party No.7-Company. The deposits were multiples of Rs.10,000/-,

Rs.20,000/-, Rs.40,000/-, Rs.50,000/-, Rs.80,000/- and Rs.1,70,000/-.

Opposite party No.7-Company failed to comply with the terms of the

Scheme and contract till the date of filing of writ petition while accepting

such deposit. The Company also failed to send any product or benefits to

its members and other similarly situated investors/depositors. The 4 Company also entered into an agreement of distributorship with the

members/distributors/investors. The amount deposited and/or invested

by the Trust and its members is more than Rs.100.00 crores and the

petitioners understand which they verily believe to be true that all over

India such deposits are more than thousands of crores. Agreement of the

said Company amounts to a scam involving lakhs of gullible depositors all

over India. The Reserve Bank of India on or about 01.08.2009 issued

Circular to all scheduled Commercial Banks that opposite party No.7

Company and six other Companies are not non-Banking financial

organization as defined under Section 45 of the Reserve Bank of India Act

and none of these Companies had been issued with a certificate to conduct

non-banking financial activity. 3. One Niranjan Sahoo of Balasore district of the State of Odisha

being aggrieved by the malicious and fraudulent conduct of the said

Company lodged an F.I.R. on 17.07.2009 in Sahadev Khunta Police

Station in the district of Balasore, which has been registered as P.S. Case

No.118 dated 17.07.2009 under Sections 406 / 420 / 468 / 471 / 34 , IPC and Sections 4 , 5 , and 6 of Prize Chits and Money Circulation Scheme

(Banning) Act, 1978 (for short 'the Act, 1978'), which has been turned to

CBPS Case No.17 of 2009. The matter was investigated by the Crime

Branch of the State, Criminal Investigation Department, which unearthed

a magnitude of total loss and money squandered away by the said

Company. The Criminal Investigation Department freezed the accounts of 5 opposite party No.7-Company. So far investments/deposits by the

investors, all the concerned Banks hold such deposits as trustees, with the

investors as beneficiaries. Insofar as such fiduciary relationship is

concerned, the said Trustee-Bank remains liable to refund the money on

appropriate direction by this Court. Despite execution of the agreement

and fabulous deposits by thousands and thousands of investors, the said

opposite party No.7-Company wilfully failed to comply with the

requirements of the assurances and stipulations of the contract within last

2 ½ years. Under such strange circumstances, there was panic among the

investors and they expressed and demanded refund of their life savings

from the said Company. As the Company purported to act online through

its website, the investors demanded refund of their money as per the

agreement of the contract on the website of the said Company. In

contravention of all assurances, representations and stipulations

contained in the agreement, the Company on its website published that

refund option has been suspended awaiting results from the appropriate

Company Court and the matter pending before this Court and kept

watching this website for latest updates. Hence, the Writ Petition. 4. Mr.Bijan Ray, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the

petitioners submitted that the refund policy as incorporated in the

agreement stipulates 100% refund of money and when the refund has

been suspended the petitioners and the investors in their anxiety to obtain

refund of their savings approached this Court for getting refund of their 6 money. The petitioners came to understand that one Writ Petition bearing

W.P.(Crl.) No.267 of 2010 has been filed by opposite party No.7 Company

for quashing of F.I.R. lodged against the said opposite party No.7.

Therefore, on advice of the Counsel the petitioners filed Misc. Case No.29

of 2011 to be impleaded as parties to the said Writ Petition and also filed

an application for protection of their deposits. This Court by order dated

04.02.2011, while holding that such applications are in no manner

connected with the issue relating to quashing of F.I.R. directed the

petitioners to initiate appropriate legal action before the appropriate Court

if they so advised. Being advised, petitioners filed application under Section 457 of the Code of Criminal Procedure before the learned S.D.J.M.,

Balasore and further invoked the extra-ordinary jurisdiction of this Court

under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for appropriate order as

advised/instructed/directed by this Court in order dated 04.02.2011

passed in Misc. Case Nos.29 and 30 of 2011 arising out of W.P.(Crl.)

No.267 of 2010. 5. Mr. Ray submitted that Section 58-A of the Companies Act,

1956 prescribes that only the Central Government in consultation with the

Reserve Bank of India, may prescribe the limits up to which, under what

conditions and subject to which, deposits may be invited or accepted by a

Company from the public or from its member. From the Circular of

Reserve Bank of India, it is evident that neither the Central Government

nor the Reserve Bank of India has prescribed any limit in the case relating 7 to the advertisement and invitation on website by opposite party No.7-

Company inviting such deposits. Thus, the invitation by opposite party

No.7-Company and acceptance of investments from the gullible public are

not only illegal or irregular but also violative of the statutory provisions

contained under section 58-A of the Companies Act. Opposite Party No.7-

Company violates mandatory provisions of the Act, 1978. The State Crimes

Department has lodged an F.I.R. and has been investigating into the

offences committed by opposite party No. 7-Company. Thousands of

investors are deprived of their hard-earned money by the fraudulent

representations of opposite party No.7-Company. 6. It is submitted that the company has fraudulently transferred

money deposited by the gullible investors to the business organization

owned by the Directors and relations. No affidavit has been filed by any of

the opposite party-Companies, the bankers and the Prosecution disclosing

the amounts deposited, amounts withdrawn/transferred and the

remaining amount that was freezed. Placing reliance upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the cases of S.P. Gupta vs. Union of India , AIR 1982 SC 149 and

B.P.Singhal vs. Union of India, (2010) 6 SCC 33, Mr. Ray submitted that

where there is public injury the Court can exercise its jurisdiction to

dispense justice. Specific class or group of investors having sufficient

interest can certainly maintain an action challenging the legality of the

scheme. Placing reliance upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court 8 in the case of Mumbai Kamgar Sabha vs. Abdulbhai Faizullabhai , AIR 1976

SC 1455, Mr. Ray submitted that the writ petition is maintainable. Further

referring to State v. Union of India , AIR 1996 Calcutta 181; Reserve Bank of

India v. Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. , AIR 1987 SC

1023; and Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. v. Reserve

Bank of India , AIR 1992 SC 1033, it was submitted that this Court should

save small investors. It is submitted that this Court should pass necessary

order directing disbursement of Rs.194 crores seized and freezed by the

local police in exercise of power under Section 102 , Cr.P.C. The depositors

have right to get refund of the entire amount invested. Opposite party No.7

has admitted such right and declared on the website as late as on

30.01.2011 that refund has been deferred due to pendency of litigation. Placing reliance upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of ABL International Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Export Credit Guarantee

Corporation of India Ltd. & Ors. , (2004) 3 SCC 553, Mr. Ray submitted

that disputed facts are not absolute bar. Merely one party disputing a fact,

don't make it disputed question. 7. Mr. Ray submitted that issue in the writ petition is for

issuance of a direction for refund of the amounts invested by the investors

and no Court has passed any order relating to the same. W.P.(C) No.1443

of 2009 was filed on 27.07.2009 before the High Court at Mumbai

assailing the F.I.R. and freezing of Bank accounts dated 17.07.2009. None

of the investors was party. The said writ petition was withdrawn. Criminal 9 Misc. Writ Petition No.16901 of 2009 filed by opposite party No.7 before

the Allahabad High Court has been rejected vide order dated 19.08.2009.

Thereafter, opposite party No.7 initiated a fraudulent Company Application

No.16 of 2009 on 29.10.2009. The petition under Sections 391 and 494 was filed for getting approval of Scheme impleading four shareholders and

thirteen unsecured creditors. None of the investors is shown as unsecured

creditor. On 26.03.2010 judgment was passed in Company Petition No.3 of

2010 approving the scheme. It is submitted that said judgment has been

fraudulently obtained. The said judgment is neither binding on the

petitioners nor on any one of 2,15,000 investors; thus the matters in issue

in this writ petition and determination thereof will not conflict to any

decision of any Court. Referring to the Auditor's report and income tax

assessment orders and enquiry and investigation by the Reserve Bank of

India, it was submitted that the company is fraud. Referring to the report

of the Crime Branch, Mr. Ray submitted that the company had furnished

false address. The Investigating Agency stated that there is reliable

indication that major part of the money has been used for funding

questionable purposes. Further placing reliance upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of K.K. Baskaran vs. State of

Tamilnadu , 2011 SCW 1799, Mr. Ray submitted that the small investors

cannot approach conventional legal proceedings incurring huge expenses

of court fees, advocate's fees etc. 10 8. It was submitted that Section 457 Cr.P.C. and/or revisional

forum don't create any impediment for this Court to exercise its

jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution in giving relief to these

specified class or injured public, who have been defrauded of their life

earnings. The Company and subsequent act of Investigating Agency

deprived the investors from enjoying their property, which amounts to

deprivation of the property under Article 300-A of the Constitution. Even

temporary and/or non-final deprivation of property amounts to deprivation

within the meaning of Article 300-A of the Constitution. Public Authorities

cannot arbitrarily and on technical ground withhold payment due to

petitioners. 9. Mr.Ray, learned Senior Advocate placing reliance on the

decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No.2341 of 2011

disposed of on 04.03.2011 submitted that a conspiracy was effected by

certain fraudulent financial establishments which not only committed

fraud on the depositor, but also siphoned off or diverted the depositor's

funds mala fide. Therefore, it was prayed that this Court being the

custodian of the welfare of the citizens may delve into the fraudulent

conduct of opposite party No.7, who are nothing but cheats and charlatans

and having no social responsibility but only a lust for easy money by

making false promise of attractive returns for the gullible investors. 10. Mr. Ray submitted that the amount invested, amount

withdrawn, amount transferred and amount that remained with the 11 petitioners are within the knowledge of opposite party No.7 and the

bankers. The petitioners being gullible investors had no access to bank

account of opposite party No.7 and could not furnish the account. No

affidavit has been filed by any of the opposite parties disclosing the details

about the amount deposited, amount withdrawn and amount transferred.

Opposite parties willfully violated the Hon'ble Courts' order. The flimsy

plea of opposite party No.7 that all their documents have been seized is a

mischievous one as they have at relevant time submitted their income tax

returns and the audited accounts have been filed before this Court. As per

the statement of learned counsel appearing for opposite party No.7,

Dibakar Sinha is missing from the date of F.I.R. Dibakar Sinha transferred

1000 shares from opposite party No.7 to one Sushila during the year

2009-10. All those who are personally injured have moved this Court for

relief through their Trust as individually it was not possible for them to

approach the Court or bear the huge expenses. 11. Placing reliance upon the judgment of this Court in the case of

Nishakar Khatua & Five others vs. State of Orissa and four others, 2012 (I)

ILR - CUT -19, Mr. Ray submitted that this Court must entertain the writ

petition as the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Guruvayoor Devasom Managing Committee and another vs. C.K. Rajan and

others , (2003) 7 SCC 546 has no application to the present case. 12. Placing reliance upon the judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of National Textile Workers' Union vs. P.R. Ramakrishnan 12 and others , AIR 1983 SC 75 and Nawabganj Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. and

others vs. Union of India and others , AIR 1976 SC 1152, Mr. Ray submitted

to issue direction for refund of money seized by the Investigating Agency. 13. Mr.K.P.Mishra, learned counsel appearing for intervenor-

petitioners supporting the case of the petitioners and adopting their stand

further submitted that opposite party No.7-Company has raised

Rs.578,22,17,252/- from public and the total number of depositors is

2,43,356. The Company has launched a Multi Level Marketing Scheme

from 2008. As per the status report of the Investigating Agency, the

registered office of the Company is running in a rented house which is

registered as tannery under the Municipality of Kanpur, U.P. The

address furnished by the Company as its registered office in W.P.(C)

No.1443 of 2009 before the Bombay High Court and W.P.(Crl.) No.267 of

2010 before this Court found to be wrong. A.C.P., Mumbai Police

confirmed that no such address exists in Mumbai. The Company is not

carrying on sale and trading business of clothes. No sales tax and VAT has

been paid by the Company. Referring to the status report of the

Investigating Agency, Crime Branch (O.P. No.1), Mr.Mishra submitted that

opposite party No.7-Company is a fraud Company. Deputy Commissioner

of Income Tax, Kanpur, UP has disallowed Company's tax return with

observation that it is a case of siphoning of funds of assessee Company by

the members of group for their own benefit of the group. The Auditor's

report reveals that the Company does not maintain proper record and 13 there is no transaction of purchase of goods and materials and sale of

goods. R.B.I. on due investigation issued Circular about seven number of

Companies including opposite party No.7 observing that the Company is

actually mobilizing large amount of deposits from the public with promises

of high return. Another Director of the Company Mr.Mahesh Bahadur

Singh Chandal filed a writ petition before the Allahabad High Court for

quashing of the F.I.R. in PS Case No.118 of 2009, Sahadev Khunta Police

Station, Balasore, which was rejected by the Allahabad High Court. The

order passed in the application under Sections 391 and 394 of the

Companies Act by the Allahabad High Court is not applicable to the

depositors. Arrangement has been made between four shareholders with

thirteen creditors of the Company without hearing the affected persons.

The Company has paid a sum of Rs.74,30,000/- towards legal fees from 1st

April, 2009 to March, 2011. Mr. Mishra submitted that the Company

specifically targeted and lured the lower section of the society, house-wife,

retired person and unemployed youth. The Company invited deposits of

Rs.10,000/- only because for such amount no individual can dare to sue

the Company in future. The Company has raised depositors not

particularly from any single town/district/State but from entire country. 14. Placing reliance on the case of T.K.Rangarajan Vs. Government

of Tamil Nadu & others , AIR 2003 SC 3032 and Nawabganj Sugar Mills Co.

Ltd. Vs. Union of India , AIR 1976 SC 1152, Mr.Mishra submitted that the

writ petition is maintainable. Further placing reliance on the judgment of 14 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Union of India Vs. Tantia

Construction Pvt. Ltd. , (2011) 5 SCC 697 it was submitted that alternative

remedy is not a bar to maintain the writ petition. Relying upon the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Nirmal Singh Kahlon Vs. State

of Punjab and others , (2009) 1 SCC 441, it was submitted that Article 21 right to fair trial is equally applicable to accused and the victim. Relying on

a judgment of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Radcliff and Asplay

Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Union of India, (1997) 5 Comp LJ 237 (Cal), it was submitted

that no person can be deprived of his property save by authority of law.

Right to sum of money is such property. Referring to the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of National Textile Workers Union Vs.

P.R.Ramkrishnan & others , AIR 1983 SC 75 it was submitted that social

scientists and thinkers regard a Company as a living, vital and dynamic,

social organism with firm and deep rooted affiliations with the rest of the

community to which it functions. Further, placing reliance on the

judgment of High Court of Gujarat in Arvind-Bhai V. Patel Vrs. State of

Gujarat and another, (1995) 4 Comp. LJ 410 (Guj) the High Court of

Gujarat did not want to continue ad-interim relief on the ground that the

poor and unfortunate person like the complainant is the victim in that

case. 15. Further placing reliance on the judgment of the Hon'ble High

Court of Calcutta in State of West Bengal Vrs. Union of India, AIR 1996 Cal 15 181, it was submitted that the present writ petition is in the nature of a

PIL seeking remedy of prompt relief for the poor depositors. 16. Mr.D.Panda, learned Additional Government Advocate

appearing for opposite party No.1-Superintendent of Police, CID, CB,

Odisha, Cuttack submitted that the C.I.D., C.B., Odisha has taken up

investigation into a multi-crore scam floated in the guise of MLM activities

by opposite party No.7-Company on the basis of the F.I.R. initially lodged

by one Niranjan Sahoo at Sahadev Khunta P.S., Balasore district and is

investigating into the channeling of moneys of several gullible investors of

Odisha especially in the districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Sundargarh and

Sambalpur. In the course of investigation, opposite party No.1 thought it

fit for protection of the interest of these investors and others to freeze the

various bank accounts of opposite party No.7-Company maintained with

opposite parties 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 in their branches situated all over India.

Primary investigation has disclosed that the account-holders being ex-

Directors as well as Directors of opposite party No.7-Company and were

attempting to siphon moneys of these small investors deposited in opposite

party No.7-Company's account to their own personal accounts maintained

in various branches including opposite parties 2 to 6 banks. The

investigation into the F.I.R. is on at present and has been held up due to

non-cooperation of the accused Directors and Ex-Directors of opposite

party No.7-Company. As the investigation is on, it is not possible to

quantify the exact amount deposited by the investors from Odisha or to 16 separate the same from the amounts deposited by the investors of

Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, who are members of the

petitioners' Trust. Therefore, the prayer for refund of the amounts to the

investors at the present stage is misconceived. Moreover, in view of the

facts presented in this writ petition the ambit of investigation has become

widen and refund if any can only be possible at the end of trial, if any,

which may be initiated on completion of investigation currently going on. 17. Accounts of opposite party No.7 Company have been seized in

the course of investigation and the seizure has been reported to the Court

of S.D.J.M., Balasore. An application under Section 457 , Cr.P.C. seeking

interim release was filed on behalf of the writ petitioners before the said

Court which has rejected the same by order dated 09.05.2011 and in that

event the petitioners have remedy of moving either the Court of Session or

this Court in Criminal Revision by assailing the order of rejection. Since

recourse is available to the petitioners under the ordinary laws of the land

to redress their grievances, the present writ petition is not maintainable.

Opposite party No.1 is not aware of any demand for refund made by the

investors to opposite party No.7-Company. Insofar as the refund policy

uploaded in the Company's website is concerned, it is an internal matter,

which is of no concern to opposite party No.1. The Bank accounts of the

Company with opposite parties 2 to 6 Banks having been suspended the

investors are already protected. Since petitioners have not produced any

record before this Court with exactitude of amounts deposited by them 17 into the accounts of opposite party No.7-Company and also have not filed

any scrap of paper showing deposits to have been made by the petitioner

No.1-Trust on behalf of its members and also not filed any certified

documents indicating the names of its members, the amounts received by

the Trust from them as well as interest received from the Company

allowing the petition for release and directing release of Rs.100 crores in

favour of the petitioners would neither be just nor reasonable nor it would

be in the interest of other depositors. The writ petition is otherwise

improper, unjustified and as such is liable to be dismissed. 18. Mr. Tulsi, learned Senior Advocate appearing for opposite

party No.7-Company submitted that the writ petition is not maintainable

either in fact or in law and the same is liable to be dismissed. There is no

privity of contract between the petitioners and opposite party No.7-

Company and as such no cause of action had arisen in favour of the

petitioners to file the writ petition. The entire relief sought for in the

present writ petition is against opposite party No.7 and/or in respect of the

amounts lying deposited in opposite parties 2 to 6-Banks. Neither opposite

party No.7 nor opposite party Nos. 2 to 6-Banks can be said to be a State

under the provisions of Constitution of India and therefore the present writ

petition filed by the petitioners is not maintainable and no relief can be

granted while exercising writ jurisdiction by this Court. The present writ

petition involves disputed question of facts as to whether any such person

is entitled to claim refund of the amounts as against opposite party No.7. 18 Therefore, such recovery proceeding between the private parties deserves

to be dismissed. 19. The writ petition has been filed suppressing the material facts

from this Court and attempts are made to play fraud upon this Court. The

petitioners have approached the learned SDJM, Balasore by filing an

application under Section 457 , Cr.P.C. vide Misc. Case No.29 of 2011

which was rejected by passing a speaking order dated 09.05.2011. This

fact has been suppressed before this Court. Opposite Party No.7-Company

had been in the business of selling necessary consumer products which

were being sold by them by utilizing electronic media facilities, i.e.,

internet. Internet facility has been used to avoid the expenses and

investment on the premises necessary for commencing any such retail

outlet. As per the policy of the Company, all the terms and conditions have

been displayed by the Company on their website, which are copies of the

terms and conditions for purchase of the products published in the

website of opposite party No.7-Company. A person who intends to

purchase the product manufactured and/or sold by opposite party No.7-

Company is required to purchase the said product subject to compliance

of the terms and conditions appearing in the website. As per the policy, the

Company has been selling the Suit length to the people at large for which,

a purchaser is required to deposit necessary value of the suit length in the

Bank account maintained by the Company with ICICI Bank by Cheque

and/or by pay order. Subject to deposit of the amounts, opposite party 19 No.7-Company has been issuing necessary purchase voucher on the basis

of which, the Company had been delivering the product to the concerned

purchaser. As per the policy of the Company, if a customer does not intend

to take delivery of the product immediately, he is entitled to enter into a

regular agreement with the Company draft of which is also published on

the website and upon such agreement being signed, it was provided that if

the said customer brings other customers for the Company, he is being

made entitled to get necessary commission on the amounts paid by the

other customers. The Company has been dealing in sales of cloth, there

was huge margin in the sale price and the cost of the Company and

accordingly as per the Policy of the Company, it had also been sharing the

profit generated by the Company with their respective customers, which

were paid on monthly basis subject to Company making profits and no

such deposit had ever been taken from any of the customers nor any fixed

income had been promised. The said facility had been available only for a

period of one year and within the said period, the concerned customer was

duty bound to take delivery of the cloth material. Within a period of one

year, if the customer so chooses is being made entitled to claim refund of

the amounts paid by him which were refunded by the Company on the

terms and conditions already published on their website. Although the

Company has been functioning regularly without committing any default

and has been making the profits which were shared with their respective

customers, the Bank account of the Company maintained with ICICI Bank 20 Ltd. having a huge balance, came to be frozen from 3rd July, 2009 by the

Bank Authority without any notice of whatsoever nature. Against such

action of opposite party No.2-ICICI Bank, one of the Director, Diwakar

Sinha of opposite party No.7-Company immediately filed Writ Petition

bearing W.P.(C). No.1443 of 2009 before the High Court, Mumbai. While

the matter stood thus, the Police authorities at Balasore registered a

complaint against the opposite party No.7-Company, which came to be

registered vide Sahadev Khunta P.S. Case No.118 of 2009 under the

provisions of Sections 406 / 420 / 468 / 471 of I.P.C. and Section 4 , 5 and 6 of the Act, 1978, corresponding to C.T. Case No.1339 of 2009 in the file of

S.D.J.M., Balasore and the said case was subsequently transferred to the

present Investigating Agency on the very day of registration of the same by

Balasore Police Station. Though the said F.I.R. only pertained to

Rs.10,000/-, the Police Authorities directed the Bank Authorities to freeze

the Bank account of the Company and in such manner, the illegal act on

the part of the Bank authorities was sought to be regularized by the Police

authorities. 20. It is further submitted that the complainant had no grievance

against the Company and despite the same, he had been forced by the

Police Authorities to lodge such complaint and in view thereof, the

complainant of his own conscious, filed W.P.(Crl.) No.503 of 2009 before

this Court for quashing of the complaint. Opposite Party No.7-Company

had also preferred to file a writ petition before this Court for quashing of 21 the said complaint which was registered as W.P.(Crl.) No.267 of 2010 and

both the petitions have been heard finally by this Court and the matter is

reserved for judgment. The present petitioners made an attempt to

intervene in the said proceedings and their intervention application was

rejected by this Court. 21. Mr. Tulsi submitted that the Company having realized that

their entire functioning has come to stand still because of freezing of the

accounts and in the absence of operation of the account, they are unable

to refund the amounts and since they are not generating any profit, they

are not in a position to share the profit, the Company approached the

Company Judge, Allahbad High Court by presenting a Scheme through an

application. Pursuant to such application, the Company Judge, Allahbad

High Court has been pleased to appoint the Chairman and Vice-Chairman

for holding a meeting of all the creditors and necessary notices were

published in the newspaper and accordingly, a meeting of the creditors

had taken place on 26th December, 2009. In the said meeting, a Resolution

came to be passed in presence of the Chairman appointed by the

Allahabad High Court to the effect that henceforth, the Company shall not

refund any amounts to any of the customers/depositors and all the

customers are liable to take delivery in respect of the product

manufactured/sold by the Company. On the basis of the said resolution, a

further application had been presented before the Company Judge,

Allahabad High Court and by order dated 26.03.2009, after hearing the 22 Advocate including the Advocate for the Company Registrar, the Allahabad

High Court has been pleased to approve the said Scheme. It was further

submitted that in view of the order of the Allahabad High Court, the

Company had not been made liable to refund any of the amounts to any of

their customers and they are entitled to take delivery in respect of the

products manufactured by the Company; more particularly, the Suit

length. The orders passed by the Allahabad High Court were also

published on the website of the Company and the Company had received

request from many customers and accordingly, the Company had

dispatched the Suit length to all those customers. If any identical request

is made by any other customers of the Company, the Company is ready

and willing to deliver the material and/or they are at liberty to take

delivery of the product from the registered office of the Company by

presenting their documents. Therefore, in view of the order of the

Allahabad High Court the claim of other customers seeking refund of any

such amount from the Company does not arise. 22. It is further submitted that in view of the orders passed by the

Allahabad High Court, this Court cannot exercise any appellate

jurisdictional power in respect of the said orders. Therefore, this writ

petition is not maintainable even on facts and law and deserves to be

dismissed. The allegation made in the writ petition that the Company has

accepted deposits is false on the face of it. At no point of time, Company

has accepted any such deposits and in view thereof, all the contentions, 23 citations and the quotations made in the said petition are not applicable to

the facts of the present case. The writ petitioners are running a parallel

institute as a recovery agency for and on behalf of the poor uneducated

people to grab the benefits to be received by such poor people including

the receipt of the cloth material and the petitioner No.1-Trust has been

formed only to blackmail the genuine Companies like that of opposite

party No.7. A careful perusal of the deed of trust does not show and/or

form any legal documents by virtue of which, the petitioners get any such

cause of action against opposite party No.7-Company in any manner

whatsoever. The agreement referred to and relied upon by the petitioners

categorically shows that the entire Agreement is in respect of commercial

transaction for sale and purchase of the material between the respective

customers of opposite party No.7-Company. Clause 29 of the said

Agreement contemplates that in case of dispute, the matter shall be

referred for arbitration and by filing the present petition, the petitioners

can never be permitted to give overriding effect to the provisions of Arbitration and Conciliation Act in any manner whatsoever. Receipt relied

upon by the petitioner at page 58, clearly mentions that the payment has

been received against the sales of the product. Concluding his argument,

Mr.Tulsi submitted for dismissal of the writ petition. 23. Mr. Tulsi, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of

opposite party No.7 further submitted that the present writ petition cannot

be treated as a public interest litigation petition as it is an application for 24 refund of money by the alleged purchasers of opposite party No.7. A

private dispute cannot be permitted to take shape of public interest

litigation. Personal disputes are termed as "private interest litigation". The

present writ petition is completely beyond the scope of PIL. In support of

his contention, Mr. Tusli relying upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of Guruvayoor Devasom Managing Committee and

another vs. C.K. Rajan and others , (2003) 7 SCC 546, submitted that the

dispute between two warring groups are in the realm of private law and

would not be allowed to be agitated as PIL. "PIL is not a pill or panacea for

all wrongs". 24. Placing reliance upon the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of Ashok Kumar Pandey vs. State of West Bengal , (2004)

3 SCC 349 and R & M Trust vs. Koramangla Residents Vig. Group, (2005) 3

SCC 91, Mr. Tulsi submitted that the only prayer in the present writ

petition is to direct the opposite parties to give refund and recovery of the

investment deposits. All the members of petitioner No.1-Trust claiming to

be investors sought to file a writ petition for a declaration protecting the

rights of the member investors for refund of the amount they have invested

with opposite party No.7. Therefore, this being a private interest litigation,

it ought not to be entertained as PIL. It is further submitted that the

decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of National Textiles

Workers' Union and others vs. P.R. Ramakrishnan and others , AIR 1983 SC

75 has no application to the present case as the said demand was in the 25 context of workers' compensation under a statute and not a civil dispute

like the present case. It was also submitted that the decision of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the case of Nawabganj Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. and others

vs. Union of India and others , AIR 1976 SC 1152 has also no application to

the present case. 25. It was argued that the present writ petition is not

maintainable as the same relates to hundreds of disputed questions of

facts. The substance of the dispute falls in the realm of the alleged breach

of contract and/or for enforcement of the same for which the writ petition

is not maintainable. Referring to paragraph-5 of the writ petition, it was

submitted that the petitioners claim that the amount deposited or invested

by the trust members is more than Rs.100 crores, yet when they are

directed to give details, the statement filed by them is only able to provide

details of Rs.9.48 crores of investment made by 4427 members. In this

statement, it is found that 772 names are duplicate entries. The allegation

of the petitioners' investment of Rs.100 crores is ridiculous. Mr. Tulsi

further submitted that the writ petition merely deals with the allegation of

breach of contract for which the only remedy available is in Civil Court, as

the Criminal Courts are already ceased of petitions for quashing and/or

refund of investments. 26. Placing reliance upon the judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of Kisan Sahkari Chini Mills vs. Vardan Linkers , ( 2008) 12

SCC 500 and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation & Ors. Vs. Gayatri 26 Construction Company & Anr. , (2008) 8 SCC 172 and FCI vs. Harmesh

Chand, (2006) 7 SCC 654, Mr. Tulsi further submitted that the writ

petition is not maintainable in contractual matters. Filing of the present

writ petition is nothing but abuse of process of this Court. The petitioners

having met their waterloo at various forums have taken resort to the

present writ petition. One of the creditors, namely, Ashok, who is a

member of petitioner No.1-Trust had sought for a stay against the

initiation of the scheme from a Court in Mumbai which was denied; he

challenged the stay in Bombay High Court which refused to intervene.

Special Leave Petition (SLP) against the said order was also dismissed by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court on 11.02.2010. Therefore, contention of

learned counsel for the petitioners that sanction of Scheme is fraud on the

Court is not correct. The petitioners then filed an application for refund of

their investment which application was rejected by the learned S.D.J.M.,

Balasore on 09.05.2011. The said order was challenged by the petitioners

by filing Criminal Revision No.533 of 2011, which is pending, the same

relief of refund of money has been sought for therein. 27. The Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, Kanpur by his order

dated 31.12.2010 held that opposite party No.7 was not a NBFC and was

only trading in consumer goods (FMCG) in the form of multi-level

marketing. No sales tax is payable on textile material or unstitched

clothes. Since the writ petition was styled as a Civil Writ Petition, the

petitioners misled this Court by seeking directions which were directly 27 violative of Article 20(3) of the Constitution. Even though a dispute may be

pursued simultaneously in Civil and Criminal Courts, yet so long as a

party is an accused in a criminal proceeding, he is entitled to the

protection under Article 20 even before a Civil Court. 28. Further placing reliance upon the decisions of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the cases of Selvi vs. State of Karnataka , (2010) 7 SCC

263; Ayyub vs. State of U.P. , (2002) 3 SCC 510; Sukhvinder Singh vs. State

of Punjab , (1994) 5 SCC 152; State of Gujrat vs. S.M. Choksi, AIR 1965 SC

1251 and State of Bombay vs. Kathi Kalu Oghad, AIR 1961 SC 1808, Mr.

Tulsi submitted that a person accused in a criminal case cannot be

compelled to make a statement on oath nor can a person who is accused

can be compelled to produce documents. These principles have been held

to be the most precious values of the Constitution and can never be

allowed to be diluted. All proceedings and directions which are found to be

violative of Article 20(3) of the Constitution are liable to be treated as void. 29. Mr. Tulsi, further submitted that the petitioners are not

correct to say that there is no disputed question of fact. On the one hand,

in the writ petition, it is claimed that members of the petitioner No.1-Trust

invested more than Rs.100 crores and yet, when they asked to give details,

they gave details of only Rs.9.48 crores. Even the State has termed their

claim of Rs.100 Crores as ridiculous. The State has further claimed that

petitioners have not even filed a scrap of paper in respect of their claims.

Submission of the petitioners that FIR is against the Company is factually 28 incorrect. The FIR is against the officials of the Company and Directors are

obviously officials, who are entitled to protection under Article 20(3) of the

Constitution. The judgment of this Court in Nisakar Khatua (supra) can

have no application to a case where the case property pending

investigation is sought to be delivered to a person from whom the same is

not seized. Each time the petitioners mention different amount and

number of depositors/members. In their submissions, the petitioners have

sought to inflate the amount of Rs.5.87 crores and 2,45,000 depositors,

whereas in paragraph 5 of the writ petition it was Rs.100 crores, and when

the details were sought it was reduced to Rs.9.48 crores and 4427

members, out of whom 772 were duplicate entries. Concluding his

argument, Mr. Tulsi submitted for dismissal of the writ petition 30. On the rival factual and legal contentions advanced by the

parties, the following questions fall for consideration by this Court: 31. Question No.(i) is with regard to maintainability of the writ

petition. It is not in dispute that a large number of gullible investors have

invested their money in the scheme floated by opposite party No.7-

Company. The scheme provided deposits to the tune of Rs.10,000/- and

its multiple up to Rs.2.5 lakhs. Under the Scheme, the Company promises 29 to give not less than 10% monthly commission to investors. The investors

are from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The

petitioners' allegation is that opposite party no.7 promoted money

circulation scheme under the guise of sale of its products. Investments

were against the product of Company on issuance of Payment Verification

Code (PVC). Auditors' report reveals that there is no transaction of

purchase of goods and material or sale of goods or materials. As per the

policy of the Company, the entire (100%) purchase amount is refundable,

if the product vouchers has not been redeemed and the investor has not

violated any clause mentioned in the agreement. On 17.07.2009 FIR was

lodged against opposite party No.7-Company at Sahadev Khunta Police

Station vide P.S. Case No.118 of 2009 in the district of Balasore.

Investigation against opposite party No.7 was initiated under Sections 406 , 420 , 468 , 471 and 34 of I.P.C. read with Sections 4 , 5 and 6 of the Act,

1978. The Investigating Officer in exercise of his powers under Section

102 , Cr.P.C. freezed the bank accounts of opposite party No.7-Company.

On 20.07.2009, the Investigating Officer freezed the Company's accounts

in three banks, namely, HDFC Bank, IDBI Bank and AXIS Bank. 32. Immediately after freezing of accounts under Section 102 ,

Cr.P.C. opposite party No.7 moved High Court of Mumbai challenging the

police action by filing Writ Petition No.1443 of 2009 on 27.07.2009

assailing the F.I.R. and freezing dated 17.07.2009. None of the investors

was made party and the said writ petition was withdrawn. Opposite Party 30 No.7 filed Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No.16901 of 2009 before the

Allahabad High Court and the Hon'ble Court vide judgment dated

19.08.2009 refused the prayer for quashing of the impugned F.I.R. with

the following observation: On dismissal of the writ petition, opposite party No.7-

Company filed Company Application No.16 of 2009 on 29.10.2009 under Sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 for approval of a Scheme

impleading four shareholders and thirteen unsecured creditors. None of

the investors is shown as unsecured creditor. On 26.03.2010, order was

passed in Company Petition No.3 of 2010 approving the said Scheme. 33. Reserve Bank of India on due investigation issued circular in

respect of 7 numbers of Company including opp. party No.7-Company and

has observed that opp. party No.7-Company posing itself as Multi Level

Marketing agency for consumer goods and services have been actually

mobilizing large amount of deposit from the public with promises of high

return. Opposite party No.7 filed W.P.(Crl) No.267 of 2010 before this

Court for quashing of the F.I.R. which still remains pending disposal.

When the investors learnt about freezing of accounts, they demanded

100% refund pursuant to policy of the Company as uploaded on the

website and stipulated in the agreement as well, but on the website 31 Company refused to make payment indicating that refund option has been

suspended awaiting results from the appropriate Company Court and

pendency of the matter before this Court. The Investors at Karnataka,

Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu being harassed, prejudiced and

defrauded of their life savings registered a deed of trust for taking steps for

refund of the amount deposited by them. On 04.02.2011 in W.P.(Crl.)

No.207 of 2010 this Court directed the petitioners to initiate appropriate

legal action before jurisdictional court. On 25.03.2011, the Trust filed a

writ petition seeking refund of the deposited amount. On 15.04.2011, this

Court issued notice directing that there shall not be any disbursement

without leave of the Court. On 02.01.2012, this Court directed to keep the

amount in fixed deposit. On 08.02.2012, this Court further directed

opposite party No.7 to disclose as to what happened to the balance

amount deposited. On 09.05.2011, the learned S.D.J.M., Balasore rejected

the application under Section 457 of Cr.P.C. On 11.07.2011, CRLREV

No.533 of 2011 was filed before this Court. 34. The Auditors specifically found that the Company has not

maintained proper records. This fact is evident from the Audit report of the

Company. No transaction of purchase and sale of goods and materials and

service was made in pursuance of the contract. Sections 58-A and 98-AA of the Companies Act, 1956 have been violated and the Company has no

internal audit system. 35. Status report submitted by the Crime Branch reveals as

follows: (1) Neither the memorandum nor the articles of
 association of the Company reflects that the Company
 is engaged in the business of multilevel marketing. (Para-5). (2) Company has cited A-101A, Sterling Centre, Andheri
 West, Mumbai as its administrative Office in the writ
 application filed before Hon'ble Bombay High Court.
 After due verification by Mumbai Police it was found
 that no such location is available in Mumbai. (Para-6)
 (3) Company had filed these applications: a) Before the Hon'ble Mumbai High Court, W.P.(C)
 No.1443 of 2009 for defreezing of its account
 with regard to ICICI Bank only. The application
 has been dismissed as withdrawn.(Para-6) b) Before Hon'ble Allahabad High Court vide
 Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No.16901 of 2009,
 the same has been disposed of with observation
 that F.I.R. reveals a prima-facie case and did not
 quash the FI.R. (Para-7)
 (4) On perusal and verification of I.O. and reply from the
 Kanpur Municipality, it is found that the address
 furnished in the website by the Company is a tannery. (Para-11)
 (5) As per the letter of Asst. Commissioner Commercial
 Tax, Kanpur the Company has not submitted returns
 from 2007-08 to 2009-10 (from 2007 to 2010) about
 their selling and trading of cloth. (Para-14) 33 (6) Around 2,43,356 depositors have deposited their
 money and enrolled in the scheme of the Company. (Para-29)
 (7) Company has raised Rs.578,22,17,252/- (Rs.578.23
 Crores) from the depositors. And has paid
 Rs.67,32,54,190/- towards the commission to the
 depositors.(Para-29)
 (8) The Investigating Agency state that there are reliable
 indication that major part of the money has been used
 for funding questionable purposes.(Para-33)
 (9) Warning letter by Home Department bearing No.44555
 dtd.08.10.2009 named the Company indulging in
 money circulations. (Para-34) 36. On the above backdrop, it is felt necessary to refer to the

following decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court. In the case of T.K. Rangarajan vs. Govt. of Tamil Nadu

and others , AIR 2003 SC 3032, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as

under:- In the instant case, huge number of depositors have invested

their hard-earned money/life savings with opposite party No.7-Company 34 and it is practically impossible for those small investors to move

individually before the procedural Court for redressal of their grievances. 37. In the case of Nawabganj Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. vs. Union of

India , AIR 1976 SC 1152, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as

follows:- AND

 "...The difficulty we face here cannot force us
 to abandon the inherent powers of the Court to do. The inherent power has its roots in necessity and
 its breadth is coextensive with the necessity. xxx
 ...If there is to be relief, we must construct it
 here by simple legal engineering." The petitioners and intervenors belong to the lower section of

the society and it is not practicable for them to fight against the mighty

opp. party No.7-Company in a long legal battle. 38. In the case of Union of India vs. Tantia Construction Pvt.

Ltd. , (2011) 5 SCC 697, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: 39. In the case of S.P. Gupta Vs. Union of India reported in AIR

1982 SC 149, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: 40. In the case of Mumbai Kamgar Sabha Vs. Abdulbhai

Faizullabhai reported in AIR 1976 SC 1455 at page 1458 Justice Krishna

Iyer emphasized: 41. The investors belong to lower strata of the society. They are

house-wives, rickshaw pullers, taxi drivers, small shopkeepers, Class-IV

employees of Private Companies, hotels and other establishments, tea

shop owners, cabin holders, retired persons and unemployed youth etc,

who have invested their life savings with opposite party No.7-Company. 36 Since the company invited deposits of Rs.10,000/- and its multiple up to

Rs.2.5 lakhs, no individual can be able to sue the Company in case of any

injury caused to him. The gullible investors were tempted to make

investments in the Company because of high return not less than 10% per

month and 100% of refund of their deposited amount was assured to

them. Accordingly, the investors were spread over throughout the country. 42. In view of the above facts and case laws cited above, we are of

the view that the writ petition is maintainable. 43. Question Nos.(ii) and (iii) being interlinked, they are dealt with

together. Undisputedly, the criminal investigation is pending against

opposite party No.7-Company. The exact number of investors and exact

amount invested by each small depositor are yet to be ascertained

although the Crime Branch Department in their status report stated as

follows: 44. Mr. Tulsi, learned Senior Advocate submitted that since the

Directors of opposite party No.7-Company are already accused in the

criminal case pending investigation, they are entitled to be protected by

this Court of their constitutional rights guaranteed under Article 20(3) of

the Constitution. It is further submitted that a person accused in a

criminal case can neither be compelled to make a statement on oath nor

he can be compelled to produce documents. These principles, which have

been held to be of most precious values of the Constitution, can never be

allowed to be diluted in any proceedings, and directions which are found to 38 be violative of Article 20(3) of the Constitution are liable to be treated as

void. 45. Some of the aspects of the case which draw attention of this

Court as matter of concern are that one investor claiming refund of

Rs.10,000/- filed complaint against the Company at Sahadev Khunta

Police Station, which was registered as Sahadev Khunta PS Case No.118 of

2009 dated 17.07.2009 under Sections 406 / 420 / 468 / 471 / 34 of IPC and Sections 4 , 5 , and 6 of the Act, 1978, corresponding to CT Case

No.113/2009 in the file of S.D.J.M., Balasore. The said case was transferred to the Investigating Agency and

the Police Authorities directed the Bank Authorities to freeze the Bank

account of the Company. The Complainant at whose instance Sahadev Khunta PS Case

No.118 of 2009 dated 17.07.2009 was instituted, filed W.P.(Crl.) No.503 of

2009 for quashing of the complaint filed by him on the ground that he was

forced by Police to file such complaint. Opp. party no.7- Company also

filed another writ petition bearing W.P.(Crl.) No.267 of 2010 for quashing

of the F.I.R. 46. One more vital aspect of the case is that on 30.10.2009

Company Petition No.16 of 2009 was filed under Sections 391 and 394 of

the Companies Act, 1956 impleading 4 share holders and 13 un-secured

creditors before the Company Judge, Allahabad High Court proposing a

scheme of arrangement with a request for sanction of the same. In that 39 Company case, 4 share holders of the Company had given their consent

through affidavit and for 13 un-secured creditors a meeting was convened

under the Chairmanship of Mr. S.C. Mishra, Advocate. Thus, the

arrangement has been made between 4 share holders and 13 creditors of

the Company. During continuation of the aforesaid proceeding, Company

Petition No.3 of 2010 was filed for confirming the compromise and

arrangement. Allahabad High Court vide its order dated 26.03.2010 in the

said Company petition sanctioned the said Scheme, according to which,

policy for encashment of purchase vouchers and/or refund of the amount

paid by the purchaser stands withdrawn and all the purchasers shall

compulsorily take delivery of the materials purchased. Grievance of the

petitioners is that the Company case was disposed of on 26.03.2010 by the

Allahabad High Court without impleading all the affected parties more

particularly the petitioners. None of the investors is shown as unsecured

creditor. It is settled principle that no adverse order shall be passed having

civil consequence without hearing the affected persons. Only seventeen

persons cannot decide the fate of 2.5 lakh depositors. Depositors are the

real owner of the funds and without hearing them no adverse order can be

passed having civil consequence. It is also not possible on the part of the

gullible small investors to spend money and contest the case at Allahabad. 47. We have perused the events including the above that have

taken place, but we are refraining ourselves from entering upon the details

thereof lest it may prejudice any party. 48 In the instant case, the ground realities cannot be lost sight of

in the maze of technicalities. The investigation by the Crime Branch,

Odisha will not be effective all over the country. Therefore, investigation by

CBI would be more effective to unearth the truth for doing complete

justice. The High Court does not lack jurisdiction to modulate the relief to

give aid to people who have been wronged. Whenever any wrong is done to

a citizen, the Court cannot become a silent spectator to such illegality and

it becomes the solemn duty of the Court to see that the affected person

must get justice. 49. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Shivajirao

Nilangekar Patil Vs. Dr.Mahesh Madhav Gosavi & Ors. , AIR 1987 SC

294 held as under:- 50. Needless to say that whenever there is a wrong, there is a

remedy. In our view this is a classic case where Court should not close its

eyes to the injustice alleged to have been perpetrated. For the reasons

indicated above and in the interest of justice, we direct that the

investigation be handed over to the CBI and the Crime Branch shall assist 41 the CBI in the investigation. The CBI is directed to submit quarterly status

 report before this Court. The prayer for refund of money shall be considered after

 receipt of periodical status report(s). List this matter after three months. ............................ B.N.Mahapatra, J.