The lis involved in these two batches of criminal petitions is

the same and therefore, they were heard together and are being

disposed of with the following common order. 2. These Criminal Petition are filed under Section - 482 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (for short, 'the Cr.P.C .') to

quash the proceedings in the First Information Reports the details

of which are mentioned in a tabular form below. 3. The Criminal Petitions vide Crl.P.Nos. 1232, 1262, 1264,

1265 and 1271 of 2022 (hereinafter called 'Batch I') are filed by

the Petitioners who are arraigned as Accused Nos. 22 and 23 in

various First Information Reports.(FIRs). 4. The Criminal Petitions vide Crl.P.Nos.2582, 2583, 2584,

2585, 2586, 2587, 2588, 2589, 2590, 2591, 2592, 2618, 2619,

2620, 2621, 2622, 2623, 2624, 2625, 2626, 2627 and 2628 of 2022 2 (hereinafter called 'Batch II') are filed by the Petitioners who are

arraigned as Accused Nos. 22 and 23 in various FIRs. 5. In both these batches, the Petitioners seek clubbing of

multiple FIRs registered against them and quash the same against

them. 6. Heard Sri R.Chandra Shekhar Reddy, learned counsel,

representing Sri Ch.Venkat Raman, learned counsel for the

petitioners and Sri Khaja Vizarath Ali, learned Assistant Public

Prosecutor for the State. Perused the record.

FACTS OF THE CASES 7. The genesis of filing these criminal petitions in both the

batches is an alleged online fraud. According to the FIRs and the

case remand diaries in all these cases, one Deepak Chaudry

(Petitioner No. 1 in Batch II) along with other accused used to run

a fake call center in Noida. He used to purchase data of people who

were RBL credit card holders and in some cases other credit card

holders from one Ravi Bhati (Petitioner No. 12 in Batch II). After

collecting such data, the other accused would call the credit card

holders impersonating themselves as employees of such bank's

credit card department. The accused would ask for details like the 3 credit card number, OTP, CVV, etc. from the victims. The said

credentials were used by the accused to make payments using

websites www.ekatmobile.com, www.GlobalFashionFreak.com,

www.Globalbrandbucket.com, www.Ecash247.in, www.Ecash24X7.

com) designed and developed by Vishal Kumar (Petitioner No. 2

in Batch II) and Krishnan Kumar Gulia (Petitioner No. 3 in Batch

II). These websites were linked to payment gateways like Paytm

and Razor pay and these payment gateways were in turn linked to

the bank accounts of Gourav Sharma (Petitioner No. 5 in Batch II),

Akash Sharma (Petitioner No. 6 in Batch II) and one Anitha. 8. It is specifically alleged that the Petitioners (Accused Nos.

22 & 23) in Batch II are also involved in the running of fake call

centers and they are the sisters of the main accused Deepak

Chaudry. It is also alleged that they were also involved in making

calls and collecting credit card credentials from the victims. 9. Using this modus operandi, various calls were made to

various people and they were duped of lakhs of rupees. Therefore,

various crimes were registered against the accused/Petitioners

herein and the details of the same are provided below: 4 10. CONTENTIONS OF THE PETITIONERS:- Ashok Naik12 to contend that multiple FIRs cannot be

 registered. iii. Reliance was placed on T.T. Anthony v. State of

 Kerala13 to contend that the subsequent FIRs are to be

 treated as statements of the aggrieved persons.

 iv. In Batch I, it was contended that there was no whisper

 about the participation of the Petitioners therein in the

 commission of the alleged offences. No specific role is

 ascribed and no specific allegations are made against the

 Petitioners. There is no nexus between the Petitioners and

 the de facto complainants as such the proceedings are to

 be quashed. Further, the Petitioners were arrayed as

 accused only because they were sisters of Accused No. 1.

 v. No prima facie case is made out and the ingredients of Section 420 of the IPC, are not satisfied. 11 (2004) 13 SCC 292 12 (2020) 1 ALD 424 13 2001 (6) SCC 181 10 11. CONTENTIONS OF RESPNODENT NO.1 - STATE:- 12. The first question to be decided by this Court is whether

registration of multiple FIRs against the Petitioners herein is

permissible and whether such FIRs can be clubbed together. The

Petitioners in both the batches contended that the allegations and

the alleged offences in all the FIRs are the same. Therefore, they

should be clubbed together with the first FIR and other FIRs shall 11 be treated as statements under Section 161 . On the other hand, it

was contended for Respondent No. 1 that alleged offences were

committed against various persons. Hence, the offences are

separate and cannot be clubbed together. 13. At this juncture, it is apposite to refer to the relevant

decisions of the Supreme Court and this Court that deal with

registration of multiple FIRs. In T.T. Antony (supra), the Supreme

Court held that a second FIR arising out of the same occurrence or

incident is impermissible under the Cr.P.C. 20. From the above discussion it follows that under the
 scheme of the provisions of Sections 154 , 155 , 156 , 157 , 162 , 169 , 170 and 173 CrPC only the earliest or the first
 information in regard to the commission of a cognizable
 offence satisfies the requirements of Section 154 CrPC.
 Thus there can be no second FIR and consequently there
 can be no fresh investigation on receipt of every
 subsequent information in respect of the same cognizable
 offence or the same occurrence or incident giving rise to
 one or more cognizable offences. On receipt of
 information about a cognizable offence or an incident
 giving rise to a cognizable offence or offences and on
 entering the FIR in the station house diary, the officer in
 charge of a police station has to investigate not merely the
 cognizable offence reported in the FIR but also other 12 connected offences found to have been committed in the
 course of the same transaction or the same occurrence and
 file one or more reports as provided in Section 173 CrPC. 14. In Upkar Singh (supra), the Supreme Court clarifying

the decision in T.T. Antony (Supra) held as follows: 15. In Arnab Goswami (Supra), multiple FIRs were

registered based on a TV show aired on a particular date

(21.04.2020). The Supreme Court held that the cause of action in 13 all the FIRs was the same TV show. Therefore, the Court held that

no subsequent FIR can be registered in respect of the same offence

arising out of the same occurrence or incident. The relevant

paragraph is extracted below: However, in case the contrary is proved, where the version
 in the second FIR is different and they are in respect of the
 two different incidents/crimes, the second FIR is
 permissible. In case in respect of the same incident the
 accused in the first FIR comes forward with a different
 version or counterclaim, investigation on both the FIRs
 has to be conducted." This Court held that the relevant enquiry is whether two or
 more FIRs relate to the same incident or relate to
 incidents which form part of the same transactions. If the 14 Court were to conclude in the affirmative, the subsequent
 FIRs are liable to be quashed. However, where the
 subsequent FIR relates to different incidents or crimes or
 is in the form of a counter-claim, investigation may
 proceed. [See also in this context ChirraShivraj v. State of
 A.P. [ChirraShivraj v. State of A.P., (2010) 14 SCC 444 : Dollyben Kantilal Patel [Chirag M. Pathak v. Dollyben
 Kantilal Patel , (2018) 1 SCC 330 : (2018) 1 SCC (Cri)
 369] .] 16. In Krishna Lal Chawla (Supra), the Supreme

Court reiterated the principles laid down in T.T. Antony (Supra) and Upkar Singh (Supra) and held as follows: Though Upkar Singh [Upkar Singh v. Ved Prakash ,
 (2004) 13 SCC 292 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 211] was rendered
 in the context of a case involving cognizable offences,
 the same principle would also apply where a person gives
 information of a non-cognizable offence and
 subsequently lodges a private complaint with respect to
 the same offence against the same accused person. Even 15 in a non-cognizable case, the police officer after the order
 of the Magistrate, is empowered to investigate the offence
 in the same manner as a cognizable case, except the power
 to arrest without a warrant. Therefore, the complainant
 cannot subject the accused to a double whammy of
 investigation by the police and inquiry before the
 Magistrate. 17. In C. Muniappan (Supra), the Apex Court held that two

or more crimes can be clubbed if the circumstances and facts

indicate that the second crime was connected or was a result of the

first crime. The relevant portion is extracted below: 18. The decisions in Amitbhai Anilchandra Shah (Supra)

and Yanob Sheikh (Supra) relied upon by the Petitioners herein

also reiterate that multiple FIRs relating to the same transaction and

between same parties are not maintainable. 19. This Court also had an opportunity to discuss the issue of

multiple registrations of FIRs. In Akbaruddin Owaisi (Supra), this

Court held that multiple FIRs cannot be registered if the offences

relate to the same incident and arise out of same circumstances.

The Court therein discussed the test of sameness to be applied

while deciding whether the subsequent FIRs are maintainable. The

Court held as follows: 2013 CrlLJ 1570). 41. It is not possible to enunciate any formula of universal
application to determine whether two or more acts
constitute the same transaction. They are to be gathered
from the circumstances of a given case indicating
proximity of time, unity or proximity of place, continuity
of action, commonality of purpose or design. For several
offences to be part of the same transaction, the test to be
applied is whether they are so related to one another in
point of purpose or of cause and effect or as principal and
subsidiary, so as to result in one continuous action. Where
there is commonality of purpose or design, where there is
a continuity of action, then all those persons involved can
be accused of the same or different offences "committed in
the course of the same transaction". Where two incidents
are of different times with involvement of different
persons, there is no commonality, the purpose thereof is
different, they emerge from different circumstances, and
would not form part of the same transaction. (Anju
Chaudhary, (2013 Cri LJ 776)). 20. In Jakka Vinod Kumar Reddy (Supra), this Court

discussed various decisions held that in following cases multiple

FIRs are maintainable: The decision in Jakka Vinod Kumar Reddy (Supra) was

subsequently followed by this Court in K. Mathamma (Supra). 21. From the above decisions, it is clear that registration of

multiple FIRs is impermissible if they relate to the occurrence of

same incident, involve same parties and arise out of the same cause

of action. Registration of multiple FIRs are impermissible even in

cases of different incidents if such incidents form part of the same 20 transaction. In other words, if the subsequent offence alleged in the

subsequent FIR is connected with the first FIR or is the

consequence of the first FIR, such subsequent FIR is not

maintainable. The courts before reaching a conclusion that the

subsequent FIRs are not maintainable shall see if the alleged

incidents or offences are identical or not and whether any

commonality between the accused and the complainant exists.

Further, registration of subsequent FIRs are impermissible if they

are filed only to improve the case of the prosecution or fill up the

lacunae in the earlier complaint. 22. Now coming to the facts of the case, the registration of

the abovementioned FIRs is permissible and the same cannot be

clubbed together. The facts clearly indicate that each victim was

separately called on various dates and the alleged fraud was

committed. In all the FIRs, the victims are different and no same

cause of action exists. Though the modus operandi of commission

of the offences is the same, all the complaints speak about different

incidents of commission of the offences involving different

witnesses. 23. The Supreme Court in Narinderjit Singh Sahni v.

Union of India14 dealt with a similar issue where multiple people

were defrauded. It was contended that multiple FIRs cannot be

registered. The Supreme Court rejecting the contention held as

follows: 24. In State of Punjab v. Rajesh Syal15 , the Supreme Court

held that where there are multiple victims of fraud, each offence is

a separate offence. The relevant paragraph is extracted below: and therefore each offence is a distinct one and cannot
 be regarded as constituting a single series of
 facts/transaction. Similarly, in P. Sreekumar v. State of Kerala16 , the Supreme

Court held that where the subsequent FIR was registered on

different set of allegations by a different person, the said FIR is

maintainable. The relevant paragraph is extracted below: Had it been so, then the situation would have been
 somewhat different. Such was not the case here; second,
 it was filed by the appellant as a counter-complaint
 against Respondent 3; third, the first FIR was against
 five persons based on one set of allegations whereas the
 second FIR was based on the allegations different from
 the allegations made in the first FIR; and lastly, the High
 Court while quashing the second FIR/charge-sheet did not
 examine the issue arising in the case in the light of law laid down by this Court in the two aforementioned
 decisions of this Court in Upkar Singh [Upkar
 Singh v. Ved Prakash , (2004) 13 SCC 292 : 2005 SCC
 (Cri) 211] and Surender Kaushik [Surender
 Kaushik v. State of U.P., (2013) 5 SCC 148 : (2013) 2
 SCC (Cri) 953] and simply referred the three decisions of
 this Court mentioned above wherein this Court has laid 16 (2018) 4 SCC 579. down general principle of law relating to exercise of
 inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code.

Further, in Jakir Hussain Kosangi (Supra), this Court discussed

various decisions of the Supreme Court dealing with multiple

registration of crimes. The Court held that where similar offences

involving various victims are committed, each of such offence

involves an independent cause of action. Further, registration of

FIRs by multiple victims cannot be prohibited simply because the

nature of allegations are the same as each offence arises out of an

independent cause of action. The relevant paragraphs are extracted

below: The depositors, who invested money in various branches,
 have independent causes of action. 65. Therefore, the prayer made by the petitioners to treat
 the earliest complaint registered against them as the
 First Information Report and to treat all subsequent
 complaints as statements under Section 161 / 162 of the
 Code, cannot be granted. Similarly, no Court can issue a
 mandamus directing the Station House Officers of all the
 police stations within the jurisdiction of the High Court
 not to register any further FIR, as the same would also
 tantamount to a restriction upon the victims of such a
 huge scam from taking recourse to lawful remedies.

In light of the decisions of the Supreme Court and this Court, the

registration of the above-mentioned FIRs is permissible in light of

independent cause of action of the victims. Therefore, the FIRs

cannot be clubbed as sought by the Petitioners. 25. However, during the perusal of the record, it was found

that on the complaints lodged by G. Rajnikanth, the Police, have

registered two FIRs based on the same allegations and cause of

action. FIR No. 1048 of 2021 dated 25.09.2021 was registered with

P.S. Kukatpally. Subsequently, FIR No. 431 of 2021 dated

02.11.2021 was registered with P.S. Cyber Crimes. In both the 25 FIRs, the complainant alleges that he had received a call on

06.09.2021 from a person who claimed to be an RBL employee. In

both the said FIRs, it is alleged that his OTP details were obtained

and Rs.2,99,990/- were credited from his bank account in three

successive transactions. Therefore, since the incident is same, the

allegations and the complainant is same, the subsequent FIR

bearing No. 431 of 2021 dated 02.11.2021 on the file of Cyber

Crimes Police Station is not maintainable. 26. The second question before this Court is whether the

impugned FIRs are liable to be quashed. Perusal of complaints in

both the batches indicates the commission of a large-scale online

fraud. The Petitioners allegedly are involved from impersonation to

designing websites to commit the crime. Prima facie, the

requirements of the alleged offences are satisfied and this Court is

not inclined to interfere with the investigation by exercising its

power under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. 27. It is trite law that powers under Section 482 of the

Cr.P.C. have to be exercised in sparingly. The Supreme Court in Skoda Auto Volkswagen India Private Limited v. The State of 26 Uttar Pradesh17 , referring to the earlier judgments rendered by it

has categorically held that the High Courts in exercise of its

inherent powers under Section - 482 of Cr.P.C has to quash the

proceedings in criminal cases in rarest of rare cases with extreme

caution. 28. In M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Private Limited vs.

State of Maharashtra18 , the Supreme Court relying on its previous

decisions has laid down the following factors to be considered

while exercising the powers under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C.: 2020 Latest Case law 620 SC 18 2021 SCC OnLine SC 315 27 vi) Criminal proceedings ought not to be scuttled at the
initial stage; vii) Quashing of a complaint/FIR should be an exception
and a rarity than an ordinary rule; viii) Ordinarily, the courts are barred from usurping the
jurisdiction of the police, since the two organs of the State
operate in two specific spheres of activities. The inherent
power of the court is, however, recognised to secure the
ends of justice or prevent the above of the process by
Section 482 Cr.P.C. ix) The functions of the judiciary and the police are
complementary, not overlapping; x) Save in exceptional cases where non-interference would
result in miscarriage of justice, the Court and the judicial
process should not interfere at the stage of investigation of
offences; xi) Extraordinary and inherent powers of the Court do not
confer an arbitrary jurisdiction on the Court to act
according to its whims or caprice; xii) The first information report is not an encyclopedia
which must disclose all facts and details relating to the
offence reported. Therefore, when the investigation by the
police is in progress, the court should not go into the
merits of the allegations in the FIR. Police must be 28 permitted to complete the investigation. It would be
premature to pronounce the conclusion based on hazy
facts that the complaint/FIR does not deserve to be
investigated or that it amounts to abuse of process of law.
During or after investigation, if the investigating officer
finds that there is no substance in the application made by
the complainant, the investigating officer may file an
appropriate report/summary before the learned Magistrate
which may be considered by the learned Magistrate in
accordance with the known procedure; xiii) The power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is very wide,
but conferment of wide power requires the court to be
cautious. It casts an onerous and more diligent duty on the
court; xiv) However, at the same time, the court, if it thinks fit,
regard being had to the parameters of quashing and the
self-restraint imposed by law, more particularly the
parameters laid down by this Court in the cases of R.P.
Kapur (supra) and Bhajan Lal (supra), has the jurisdiction
to quash the FIR/complaint; and xv) When a prayer for quashing the FIR is made by the
alleged accused, the court when it exercises the power
under Section 482 Cr.P.C., only has to consider whether or
not the allegations in the FIR disclose the commission of a
cognizable offence and is not required to consider on
merits whether the allegations make out a cognizable 29 offence or not and the court has to permit the investigating
 agency/police to investigate the allegations in the FIR." 29. Therefore, in view of the nature of allegations and the

law laid down by the Supreme Court, this Court is not inclined to

exercise its power to quash the impugned FIRs, except FIR bearing

No. 431 of 2021 dated 02.11.2021 on the file of Cyber Crimes

Police Station impugned in Crl.P.No.1262 of 2022. 30. In result:-