For Applicant(s) : Mr. Aman Kumar Kesharwani, Advocate.
 For Respondent(s) : Ms. Anusha Naik, Dy. G.A.

 Hon'ble Mr. Ramesh Sinha, Chief Justice
 Order on Board
 28/02/2026 1. This is the first bail application filed under Section 483 of the

 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short 'BNSS') for

 grant of regular bail to the applicant who has been arrested in

 connection with Crime No. 365/2025 registered at Police Station

 Champa, District : Janjgir-Champa (C.G.) for the offence 2 punishable under Sections 317(2), 317(4), 317(5), 111(1) of BNS. 2. Case of the prosecution, in brief, is that a report was lodged at

 Police Station Champa regarding a cyber fraud involving an

 amount of Rs. 1,30,92,073/-. On the basis of the said report,

 Crime No. 365/2025 was registered for offences punishable under

 Sections 317(2), 317(4), 317(5) and 111(1) of the Bharatiya Nyaya

 Sanhita. During the course of investigation, the police arrested

 accused Balram Yadav @ Ballu, who allegedly confessed that he

 had committed the cyber fraud in connivance with the present

 applicant and co-accused Michael by opening a mule bank

 account in his name at ICICI Bank, Branch Champa. On the basis

 of the said memorandum statement, the present applicant was

 also arrested in the matter. Hence, the bail application. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the present

 applicant is innocent and has no manner of involvement in the

 alleged commission of the online fraud or in receipt of any alleged

 fraudulent amount. He further submits that as per the prosecution

 case, the alleged defrauded amount of Rs. 1,30,92,073/- was

 deposited in Bank Account No. 177405500454 maintained with

 ICICI Bank, to which Mobile No. 8817389778 is linked, however,

 neither the said bank account nor the aforesaid mobile number

 belongs to, or is operated or controlled by, the present applicant,

 and there is no material on record to establish any nexus of the

 applicant with the said account or transaction. The applicant is in 3 jail since 26.08.2025, the applicant has one criminal antecedent of

 the year 2024 under the IPC , further the charge-sheet has been

 filed and the trial is likely to take some time for its conclusion.

 Therefore, he prays for grant of bail to the applicant. 4. On the other hand, learned State Counsel opposes the bail

 application and submits that the charge-sheet has been filed in

 the present case. She further submits that the applicant allegedly

 in connivance with co-accused Michael Sahu, facilitated the

 opening of a bank account in the name of co-accused Balram

 Yadav @ Ballu at ICICI Bank, Branch Champa, and used the said

 account as a mule account for depositing and channelizing

 proceeds of cyber fraud amounting to approximately Rs.

 1,30,92,073/-. It is alleged that the said account was utilized for

 receiving amounts obtained through cyber fraud committed in

 different States. 5. She also submits that in compliance of the Court's order dated

 12.01.2026, the concerned Investigating Officer has filed his

 personal affidavit disclosing the evidence collected during the

 course of the investigation, the concerned I.O. in para 6 of his

 affidavit stated that during the course of investigation, the account

 holder, namely, Balram Yadav @ Ballu, S/o Firat Ram Yadav, R/o

 Sanjay Nagar, Ward No. 04, Jaijaipur, District Sakti, was

 apprehended and interrogated by the investigating agency. In his

 memorandum statement recorded under Section 27 of the Indian 4 Evidence Act , he disclosed that on the advice of his friend, the

 present applicant, Harish Yadav, came into contact with one

 Michael Sahu. Michael Sahu allegedly assured him that through

 his acquaintance Sonu Kumar, stated to be an employee of ICICI

 Bank, Champa Branch, a business loan could be arranged in his

 favour. Acting upon such assurance, Balram Yadav obtained a

 Gumasta (Shop Establishment) licence and opened a bank

 account. 6. It is alleged that, at the instance of Michael Sahu, a mobile

 number belonging to another person was linked to the said

 account. Subsequently, Sonu Kumar provided QR code scanners

 purportedly for shop transactions. Thereafter, as per his

 statement, Michael Sahu induced him to hand over his ATM card,

 passbook, cheque book and other account credentials on the

 assurance that the account would be operated for business

 transactions and he would receive 1% commission on the

 amounts deposited therein. Initially, he was allegedly paid Rs.

 5,000/- per month for a few months, however, the payments were

 later discontinued. He further admitted that substantial amounts

 were deposited into his account by Michael Sahu, Sonu Kumar

 and the present applicant Harish Yadav, out of which he received

 and utilized a small portion. Upon detection of suspicious

 transactions, the bank account was frozen. On the basis of his

 disclosure statement, the investigating agency seized articles

 allegedly used in the commission of the offence, including a QR 5 code scanner, PAN card, one mobile phone and the shop

 establishment licence. Upon collection of material evidence during

 investigation, Section 111(1) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita,

 2023 (BNS) was additionally invoked against the accused

 persons, alleging involvement in organized criminal activity and

 unlawful financial transactions. 7. I have heard learned counsel appearing for the parties and

 perused the case diary. 8. Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the case,

 nature and gravity of offence, period of detention of the applicant

 since 26.08.2025, the fact that though the applicant allegedly in

 connivance with co-accused, Michael Sahu, facilitated the

 opening of a bank account in the name of co-accused Balram

 Yadav @ Ballu at ICICI Bank, Branch Champa, and used the said

 account as a mule account for depositing and channelizing

 proceeds of cyber fraud amounting to approximately Rs.

 1,30,92,073/-, but considering the fact that the role attributed to

 the present applicant, as per the prosecution case, is that of

 facilitating contact between the account holder and co-accused

 persons, so far as co-accused, Balram Yadav @ Ballu is

 concerned, the bank account in which the proceeds of the alleged

 cyber fraud were received stands in the name of the said co-

 accused, as such, the case of present applicant is distinguishable

 from that of the co-accused, Balram Yadav @ Ballu, further 6 considering the fact that the applicant has only one criminal

 antecedent, which is of the year 2024 under the IPC and the

 charge-sheet has been filed, this Court is of the view that the

 applicant is entitled to be released on bail in this case. 9. Accordingly, the application is allowed. 10. Let the Applicant-Harish Yadav, involved in Crime No. 365/2025

 registered at Police Station Champa, District : Janjgir-Champa

 (C.G.) for the offence punishable under Sections 317(2), 317(4),

 317(5), 111(1) of BNS, be released on bail on his furnishing a

 personal bond with two sureties in the like sum to the

 satisfaction of the Court concerned with the following conditions:- 11. Office is directed to send a certified copy of this order to the trial

 Court for necessary information and compliance. Sd/- (Ramesh Sinha)
 CHIEF JUSTICE

Akhil