1. The instant petition has been filed under Section 483 of BNSS, 2023

(earlier Section 439 Cr.P.C.), for grant of regular bail to the petitioner, during the

pendency of trial, who has been booked in a criminal case arising out of First

Information Report, as detailed hereunder:- 2. There are total 11 accused and complainant Anil Kumar who got

lodged the FIR by submitting that he received several Whatsapp calls and the

callers were introducing themselves as offical from CBI, who informed that

petitioner has opened several bank accounts and is involved in anti-national

activities, as he is dealing in the activities of money laundering. The person

concerned was on video call, who threatened the complainant to not to cut the call

or to talk to anyone, otherwise he would be sent behind the bars for 07 years.

Getting apprehensive and afraid of arrest of his own and of his parents, an amount

of Rs.88 lacs was transferred by him from his bank account through RTGS mode.

Again the complainant received a video call and by further blackmailing him

demanded a sum of Rs.15 lacs. Subsequent to the transfer of the amount,

petitioner acknowledged the fact that he was subjected to cyber arrest scam. 3. Counsel submits that after registration of FIR, the investigation was

completed and thereupon, final report has been submitted qua 11 of the accused

and 03 of them namely Sachin Upadhyay, Yash Dubey and Manoj Lohar have

been granted regular bail, as the complainant had settled his dispute qua those

accused. Referring to the bail order dated 20.02.2025 passed by learned Sessions

Judge, Palwal, in the bail application of Sachin Upadhyay, counsel argues that on

account of receiving an amount of Rs.5 lacs complainant expressed his no

objection for releasing the said co-accused Sachin Upadhyay on bail. 4. Counsel further realise upon the order dated 20.02.2025, in regard to

co-accused Yash Dubey, with whom complainant also compromised the matter,

after accepting Rs.5 lacs and accordingly he was released on bail. Similarly as per

bail order dated 20.02.2025 another co-accused Manoj Lohan qua whom also

 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 03-05-2025 09:22:02 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:056217

CRM-M-17927-2025 - 3-

there was an allegation by prosecution after that he shared the profit of Rs.5 lacs,

and he has also been granted bail on account of settlement with the complainant.

Thus, counsel argues that the accused who have already been released on bail,

there was direct evidence against them, whereas, there is no direct evidence

against the petitioner except, his one visit to Cambodia. Even as per the case of

prosecution, after being arrested, there was recovery of only Rs.50,000/- from the

petitioner, apart 05 mobile sim-cards. 5. Counsel argues that this is not even the case of the prosecution that

any of the recovered mobile sim-cards, was ever used by the petitioner for making

call/whatsapp call to the complainant, therefore, it cannot be assumed that there is

any direct evidence against the petitioner, connecting him with the offence in

question. Counsel further proposes that petitioner is ready to deposit a sum of

Rs.5 lacs before the learned trial Court, subject to the final decision of the case,

however, he does not want to enter into any kind of settlement with the

complainant, as the petitioner is not involved in the crime. 6. Status report dated 25.04.2025 by way of an affidavit of Mr.

Shubham Singh, IPS, Additional Superintendent of Police, Palwal, District Palwal

has been filed on behalf of learned State counsel. The same is taken on record. 7. Learned counsel for the respondent-State submits that the offence is a

serious one, as the petitioner is an active member of the gang, who are involved in

duping the people by projecting digital arrest and thereby blackmailing the person

under the money greed. 8. Counsel for the complainant also opposes the submissions addressed

by the petitioner and submits that in case the petitioner is released on bail he

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 03-05-2025 09:22:02 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:056217

CRM-M-17927-2025 - 4-

would again get involved in similar activities and his release may be detrimental

to the interest of public in general. 9. Considering the submissions addressed by both the sides and the fact

that investigation qua 11 of the accused including the petitioner is complete and

the final report thereupon, has also been submitted; offences are trial-able by the

Court of Magistrate; and the fact that other three accused have already been

granted bail; and petitioner has also proposed to deposit an amount of Rs.5 lacs

before the trial Court, subject to the final decision of the case; I deem it

appropriate to grant the concession of bail to the petitioner. 10. Consequently, prayer made in the present petition is allowed.

Petitioner is ordered to be released on bail, subject to his furnishing bail/surety

bonds to the satisfaction of the learned trial Court/ Chief Judicial Magistrate/

Illaqa Magistrate/ Duty Magistrate concerned, if not required in any other case. 11. However, the said concession of bail would be available to the

petitioner, subject to the depositing of an amount of Rs.5 lacs in the form of FDR

from a nationlized bank and for getting the same renewed from time to time would

also be the responsibility entirely of petitioner. 12. Original Copy of the FDR would be retained by the Court under the

endorsement of the bank. 13. Needless to observe that the petitioner shall not extend any threat and

shall not influence any prosecution witness in any manner directly or indirectly. 14. The observation made hereinabove shall not be construed as an

expression of opinion on the facts of the case and the Trial Court is expected to

decide the case on the basis of complete evidence available on record. 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 03-05-2025 09:22:02 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:056217

CRM-M-17927-2025 - 5- 15. It is further made clear that if, in future, petitioner is directly found

indulged in similar kind of activities, this order shall be deemed to be cancelled. 16. Petition stands disposed of.