**********************

 If there is any perennial problem prevailing in the society, in

 order to address and redress such problem by legal means, to give

 a quietus, people would certainly approach the law Courts. Courts

 also, within the four corners of the law prevailing, would find a

 legal solution for any such perennial issue and ultimately, the

 finality would be given. 2. If such final verdict has come, certainly, there will be a

 permanent solution made available to the stakeholders in the

 society. Thereafter, most probably such kind of issues would not

 again knock the doors of the Court. However, in some occasions,

 there will be some exceptions to this general perception, where,

 even though law Courts made sincere efforts to give a quietus to

 the issue which is considered to be perennial one, even then there

 would not be a complete subsiding of the issue, as again and again,

 the same issue or problem would emerge consistently and in such 4/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 situation or circumstances, people will have no other option except

 to be triggered to once again approach the law Courts. 3. The issue that we are going to confront in this batch of

 cases is one such issue, where, though many number of decisions

 had come from law Courts ie., from this Court as well as various

 High Courts and the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, there is no

 complete calm down of the issue, as recurringly the same problem

 or issue erupts or emanates. Therefore, in order to redress that

 grievances, constantly people are approaching this Court, of course

 with the same issue or problem. 4. With this background introductory, if we look at the

 prayers sought for in this batch of cases, it go to show that, the

 people's desire to hold and enjoy the immovable property, whether

 it may be a land or a building or fixtures, whatever it may be, is not

 limited. Such desire is two fold. One set of people wants to achieve

 the desire or goal in lawful means, by investing their lawful fortune

 which they derived in their lifetime by doing hard work, but,

 another set of people without having any such fortune out of hard

 work in lawful means want to achieve such illegal desire, with the

 result, there have been instances of fraudulent transactions of

 immovable properties and that would go to the Registration 5/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 Department being governed under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908 , [in short would be called as '1908 Act'] and

 there are registrations and counter registrations of instruments

 dealing with such immovable properties, with a result, there has

 been hot burning issues and the people who are otherwise the

 lawful owners or lawful claimants of any such immovable property,

 would come to the Court of law, especially before the High Courts,

 invoking Article 226 of the Constitution of India as an instant

 grievance redressal mechanism. The present batch of cases are the

 illustrative cases which have come to this Court for redressing such

 kind of grievances. 5. Based on the prayer sought for in this batch of cases, it

 can be categorised under three broad categories: 6. Among the three categories, Category No.1 is vulnerable,

 where, there has been hue and cry from the real owners of the

 immovable properties concerned that, their property without their

 consent or knowledge had been subjected to creation of third party

 right by way of sale deeds and in some cases, settlement and thus

 documents have been registered by the concerned Sub-Registrar

 office and when the said registration have come to the light of the

 original owners concerned, only at a later point of time, their

 attempt to cancel such alleged fraudulent registrations could not

 yield any desired result, in view of the settled legal proposition in

 this regard. Therefore, they approached this Court by filing writ

 petitions, seeking such a prayer under Article 226 of the

 Constitution of India, to cancel such alleged fraudulent sale or

 settlement deed registered in the concerned Registrar office. 7. When this batch of cases came up for hearing before this 7/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 Court, it was pointed out by the learned Counsel appearing for both

 sides that, the law has been settled in this regard, by very many

 authoritative pronouncements of this Court and also by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court of India that, once the registration has been

 entertained and has been completed and the document is released

 by the authority concerned, thereafter, such registering authority

 or any other authority under the Department of Registration being

 governed under the provisions of the 1908 Act, cannot have any

 power to revisit the same, either to recall or to revoke the same,

 under the rules made thereunder. Thus, Counsel have made a plea

 that, atleast the system which are available with the registration

 department in this State has to be testified, whether it is a

 foolproof system to verify any previous illegal encumbrance created

 in respect of any immovable property, other than the owner or his

 or her legal representatives, power of attorney or assignee and that

 kind of information is very much required, so that, what best this

 Court can do at this juncture in dealing with these writ petitions,

 can be decided. In order to ensure that, such a foolproof system is

 legally backed either under the provisions of 1908 Act, or the rules

 made thereunder or various circulars issued in this regard by the

 IG of Registration, the learned Counsel sought indulgence of this

 Court to know the mechanism available in the registration

 department. 8/108 http://www.judis.nic.in 8. Considering this preliminary submissions made on behalf

 of the petitioners by the respective counsel, this Court on

 17.06.2021, had issued an interim direction to the respondent ie.,

 IG of registration with the following direction: In respect of these aspects, the report shall give the
 details and such report shall be filed during the
 next hearing date.” 9. In response to the said query raised by this Court as stated

 supra by order dated 17.06.2021, the IG of registration

 Government of Tamil Nadu, has filed a detailed report dated

 02.07.2021, where, inter alia, the IG of Registration has stated the

 following: 9/108 The Encumbrance Certificates ie., EC were made after the manual

 search made using Index 1 and 2 Registers and in pre-

 computerization era, such process was time consuming and prone

 to errors. (e) Therefore, the Government with a view to render speedy

 and efficient services to the citizens started computerization of the

 registration process in the year 2000 from 06.02.2000 and

 implemented a project called Project Star 1.0. Under the said

 project, in a phased manner, initially 13 offices were computerized

 and the original documents registered were scanned and were

 stored digitally. From 05.07.2009, all the Sub-Registrar offices of

 the entire State were computerized and every original documents

 registered were returned to the people after scanning and storing

 it digitally. 11/108 http://www.judis.nic.in (f) Similarly Index 2 entries in respect of Book 1 documents

 have also been entered in the computer system and are now being

 shown digitally. Though, the computerization started in the year

 2000, the Government undertook a huge project and digitized the

 manual Index 2 registers in respect of Book 1 documents of entire

 State up to 1975. Besides, the entire book 1, 3 and 4 volumes kept

 in all the Sub-Registrar offices from 1865 to 05.07.2009, are being

 digitized under a project initiated by the Government. (g) In order to further enhance the quality of such services,

 the department has implemented the advanced Star 2.0 module.

 Under the Star 2.0 module, the registration of documents are being

 carried out through online mode. The advantages of Star 2.0

 module over the Star 1.0 module is submitted as follows: banks with separate Banks through SBI as
 locking facility an aggregator and
 facilitated for all
 modes of payment xii) e-Stamping Standalone software Integrated locking
 with separate locking facility
 facility xiii) SMS/email Not available Facility to send at
 every stage 13/108 http://www.judis.nic.in xiv) Toll Free Not available 1800-102-5174
 Number xv) Storage Storage at local Storage at
 server centralized location
 and at three places to
 avoid tampering
 xvi) Work Flow Disintegrated system Work flow based
 system
 xvii) MIS Not available MIS with dashboard
 xviii) Society Stand alone module Integrated end to end
 Registration module
 xix) Firms Not available Integrated end to end
 Registration module
 xx) Chit Fund Stand alone module Integrated end to end
 Registration module
 xxi) Issuing of Birth Not available Integrated end to end
 & Death Registration module
 xxii) Issuing of Stand alone module Integrated end to end
 Christian Marriage module
 Extract 10. The IG of Registration has further stated in the said

 report that, after the implementation of Star 2.0 module and online

 registration, the following amendments have been made in respect

 of Encumbrance Certificate with regard to the immovable property: 11. The IG of Registration has further stated in the report

 that, earlier all the scanned documents were stored by way of

 compact disks, periodically in three places ie., at the office of the 15/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 Sub-Registrar, office of the District Registrar and office of the

 Deputy Inspector General of Registration. However, from 2018

 onwards, all scanned images are being centrally stored in a

 common server. The public are able to access any registered

 document online at www.tnreginet.gov.in, on payment of charges

 online by a debit or credit card. Therefore, the position now,

 according to the IG of Registration, is that, anybody can view a

 registered document through internet. The computerization of all

 registered documents have been done for the past 15 years and the

 remaining documents will be scanned and uploaded on the online

 database within a period of one year. 12. Therefore, the report further says that, in the present

 regime of Star 2.0. it is highly impossible to register a fraud

 document without having original sale deed, patta etc., That apart,

 fingerprints of executants are captured using biometric device and

 photograph using web cameras. So, the live fingerprints and

 photographs of the person appearing before the Registering Officer

 is being captured. The IG has further stated in his report that, the

 Government lands belonging to Hindu Religious & Charitable

 Endowments, Wakf Board lands, Bhoodan Lands etc., are marked in

 the guideline register with respect to villages maintained in online.

 No value is fixed for those survey numbers. He would also state 16/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 that, in order to avoid further legal complications, when a power

 agent executes a document for registration in respect of immovable

 property, 'life certificate' of the Principal is verified if one month

 has lapsed from the date of execution of the power of attorney

 documents. The aforestated informations have been given in the

 said report submitted by the IG of registration dated 02.07.2021. 13. Before delving into the issue raised in this batch of cases,

 as a preparatory, let us first look into the relevant provisions of the

 1908 Act. Though this Act contains about 90 provisions, for the

 purpose of present issue, the following provisions are relevant. “ Sections 17 , 22-A, 32 , 32-A , 34 , 34-A, 34-B, 35 , 36 , 68 , 69 , 72 and 77 ”. 14. Section 17 deals with the compulsory nature of

 registration of documents pertaining to immovable property. What

 are all the documents which are compulsorily registrable have been

 stated in this section. 15. Section 22-A under the heading “Refusal to register

 certain documents” has been inserted by the Tamil Nadu Act 2 of

 2009, however, it is to be noted that, the said provision has been

 given effect to by issuing notification in this regard only with effect 17/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 from 20.10.2016. Certain documents or instruments relating to

 transfer of immovable properties by way of sale, gift, mortgage,

 exchange or lease can be refused by the Registering Authority. If

 any documents relating to the properties, belonging to the State

 Government or the local authority, Chennai Metropolitan

 Development Authority, Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowment

 lands and Wakf lands, are filed for registration before the

 registering authority, such registering authority can refuse to

 register the same, unless a sanction in this regard, issued by the

 competent authority as provided in the relevant Act or in the

 absence of any such authority, an authority so authorised by the

 State Government for this purpose, is produced before the

 Registering Officer. 16. Sub- Section 3 of Section 22-A makes it clear that

 instruments relating to cancellation of sale deeds without the

 consent of the persons claiming under the said sale deed, is also a

 document where the Registering Authority shall refuse the

 registration. 17. Therefore, it is to be noted that, if any instrument

 relating to cancellation of sale deed without the consent of the

 person claiming under the sale deed is filed, the same shall be 18/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 refused to be registered by the Registering Authority which is a

 mandatory import of sub-section 3 of Section 22-A. 18. Under Section 32 , who are all the persons who can

 present document for registration, has been provided. Like that, Section 32-A makes it compulsory to affix the photographs as has

 been inserted by the Registration and Other Related Laws

 (Amendment) Act 48 of 2001, with effect from 24.09.2001, where it

 makes clear that, every person presenting any document, at the

 proper registration office under Section 32 , shall affix his passport

 size photograph and fingerprint to the documents, provided, if the

 document relates to the transfer of ownership of the immovable

 property, the passport size photograph of each buyer and seller of

 that property mentioned in the document shall also be affixed to

 the document. By insertion of Section 32-A , it becomes mandatory

 that in every such document which is presented to registration

 which relates to the transfer of immovable property, the

 photograph and fingerprint of buyer and seller be affixed in the

 document concerned, which is the first major step in preventing

 fraudulent transaction and registration of such documents

 pertaining to immovable property. 19. The next important Section of 1908 Act is Section 34 . 19/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 Under this Section, the Registering Authorities are empowered to

 have an enquiry ie., preliminary enquiry, whereby, the Registering

 Authority require the persons who are executing such document

 and in case of sale of immovable property, the person claiming

 under the document also or their representatives, assignees, or

 agents to appear before the Registering Officer within the time

 allowed for presentation. A detailed procedure has been

 contemplated under Section 34 , under which, both the seller as

 well as the buyer of the sale deed, with regard to the transfer of

 immovable property, shall appear before the Registering Authority,

 to satisfy the registering authority by way of conducting a

 preliminary enquiry before registering, as to the execution of the

 document and also the acceptance of the same. 20. Like that, Section 34-A was inserted by Registration

 (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act 28 of 2000 with effect from

 14.04.2001. It provides that, person claiming under the document

 for sale of the property shall also have to sign the document.

 Therefore, it has become manifest that the purpose of the said

 amendment is to restrict or atleast minimise the forgery or fraud

 committed by the parties and to give legal sanctity once the

 document is registered according to the provisions of the 1908 Act. 20/108 http://www.judis.nic.in 21. Under Section 35 , what are all the procedures to be

 adopted, on admission and denial of the execution of the document,

 has been stated. In this context, the Registrar must satisfy that, all

 the persons who are executing the document shall appear before

 him and are personally known to him or if he is otherwise satisfied

 that they are the persons they represent themselves and if they all

 admit the execution of the document, he can proceed to register

 the document. Therefore, the Registering Authority here, must

 personally know the persons executing the document which is

 presented before him and has to accept the execution of the

 document. 22. These are all certain provisions which are available in the

 1908 Act originally or inserted by way of amendment at various

 point of time, as has been mentioned, in order to avoid fraudulent

 transaction of immovable property and to ensure that a genuine

 transaction is taking place in respect of immovable property. When

 such documents or instruments are registered by the registering

 authority within the meaning of 1908 Act, utmost sanctity shall be

 given to such registered documents is the prime concern of the

 legislation as well as the executants and that is the reason why

 these amendments have taken place. Apart from these sections of

 the Act, under Section 68 , the District Registrar concerned is 21/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 having the power of Superintendence and control over Sub- Registrars. Like that, under Section 69 , the IG of Registration is

 having similar power of superintendence and also he is empowered

 to make rules consistent with the 1908 Act, as enumerated under Section 69 . 23. Insofar as any order passed by the Sub-Registrar refusing

 registration on the ground other than denial of execution, the

 affected parties are having right to file an appeal to the District

 Registrar concerned under Section 72 of the Act within 30 days

 period and if any order is passed by the appellate authority the

 aggrieved party will have a right only to institute a suit against

 such order passed by the appellate authority under Section 72 or

 under Section 76 , where the Registrar himself can refuse to

 register the document, as per Section 77 of the Act. 24. This is how, broadly, 1908 Act has been in the field for

 more than a century. Since, it is one of the subjects in entry 6 in the

 list 3 of Schedule VII of the Constitution ie., concurrent list, though

 1908 Act is a Central enactment, the State legislatures are

 empowered to make amendments and that is how the afore cited

 sections have been inserted by way of amending legislations. With

 that working pattern of the 1908 Act, it is being administered by 22/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 the Registration Department of the State where the present system

 being adopted as has been explained by the IG of Registration

 through his report referred to above, as a foolproof system. Within

 the four corners of the said system, whether every lawful owner of

 the immovable property is protected from being exploited

 fraudulently by fraudsters or any other third party, by creating a

 third party right fraudulently or otherwise in respect of rights of

 immovable property, by way of transferring such right either as a

 sale deed or as a settlement deed and if those documents are

 registered with the concerned Sub-Registrar office, such

 registration can be unilaterally cancelled or not or the affected

 person or real owners of the property concerned can approach the

 Court of law ie., by way of filing writ petitions before the High

 Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, seeking

 redressal of such grievances to cancel such registration of

 documents allegedly made and if such kind of prayers are made

 under the writ jurisdiction, whether such prayers can be

 entertained and prerogative writs either by way of certiorari or

 Mandamus can be issued or not is the prime question to be

 answered in these batch of cases. 25. In this context, in earlier occasions the very same

 questions had come up for consideration, in very many occasions 23/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 judgments have been rendered by Single Benches as well as

 Division Benches of this Court and also similar litigations were

 dealt with by various High Courts as well as the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court of India. Thus, case laws are governing the field, which

 would be dealt with in the later part of this order, before which, let

 me consider the various circulars issued by the IG of Registration,

 exercising his powers under Section 69 of the 1908 Act. 26. As we discussed above, since there has been no power

 vested with the Sub-Registrar concerned empowering him to cancel

 any document once it is registered, the only way to cancel the

 registered deed is through the cancellation deed signed by all the

 parties to the original document. However, in view of raising the

 number of fraudulent registrations, the IG of Registration had

 issued a circular called Circular No.67 dated 03.11.2011, where

 the procedure was prescribed to deal with the complaints relating

 to fraudulent registration of documents through impersonation or

 by giving false admissions or statements or by presenting false

 copies or translations of any document / map / plan etc. The

 relevant portion of the said circular reads thus: “(a) All such complaints of fraudulent
 registration received by the department have to be
 forwarded to the respective District Registrar 24/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 (Admin) who shall register the same in a register of
 complaints relating to fraudulent registration in
 the following format. (b) After entering the complaint, he shall
 issue notices to the executants of the document
 and witnesses to appear for enquiry along with
 the complainant and he should also take
 witness of the registering officer and if needed,
 call for the records from the revenue
 department and also summon the respective
 Village Administrative Officer (VAO) to appear
 before him with the village accounts. (c) Once the enquiry is completed following
 summary procedure and it is proved that the
 registration has taken place through
 impersonation and through production of false
 documents and statements/admissions, he shall
 pass orders to this effect, recording his
 findings and issue direction to the concerned
 registering officers to file FIR against the
 concerned persons and also to make a note in
 the Index-II of the document which was
 fraudulently registered to the effect that the 25/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 “registration is annulled as per the
 proceedings of the District Registrar
 (proceeding no. to be noted) and is shall have
 same effect as prescribed under Section 49 of
 the Registration Act”. (d) After receiving the order of the District
 Registrar, the registering office shall
 immediately file FIR and make entries as
 stated above in Index-II without any loss of
 time. The registering officer shall maintain a
 separate register in this regard in his office to
 register all such orders of the District
 Registrar in following format. (e) The District Registrar should complete the
 enquiry maximum in two months in each case and if
 the parties are not appearing for more than 2
 summons, ex-parte order should be passed based upon
 the documents, evidences and witnesses available.
 While issuing summons, mode of RPAD should be
 adopted.” 26/108 http://www.judis.nic.in 27. The important facet of this Circular No.67 dated

 03.11.2011 is Clause 'c' referred to above, where, it has been

 provided that, the Sub-Registrars also to make note in Index II of

 the document which was fraudulently registered to the effect that

 the registration is annulled as per the proceedings of the District

 Registrar and it shall have same effect as prescribed under Section

 49 of the Registration Act. 28. Therefore, the said circular 67 has empowered the Sub-

 Registrars to cancel the instrument or document pertaining to

 immovable property, if it is found to be a fraudulent one and must

 register in Index II, with a note that the registration is annulled,

 thereby, there has been a complete power vested with the Sub-

 Registrar to annul a document which is registered already if it is

 found to be a fraudulent one. 29. The IG of Registration, in order to prevent further

 fraudulent transaction in the public interest, issued another

 circular called circular in Letter No.18339/C1/2012 dated

 25.04.2012. In the said circular, the following has been stated by

 the IG of Registration. “(A) In respect of deeds involving transfer of
 immovable property, such as sale, gift, settlement, 27/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 exchange or creating charge over the property such
 as Mortgage or Power of Attorney, the registering
 officer should insist presentation of previous original
 deed/deeds by which the executants acquired right
 over the said property before registering the
 document and then verify the previous documents to
 satisfy himself that the executants have right over
 the property. (B) In case previous documents are not
 available as the property may be ancestral, the
 executants should produce revenue records such as
 Patta copy issued by the Revenue Department and
 tax receipt in original along with attested/notarized
 Xerox copies to prove that the properties are owned
 by them. The Registering Officer should verify the
 original and return them to the party concerned and
 preserve the attested xerox copy as part of the
 document by scanning and numbering it. (C) In case the previous original document is
 lost, the party should produce certified copy of the
 document, copy of complaints recorded in Police
 Station and copy of advertisement published in local
 dailies regarding loss of documents. In such case,
 the party has to produce patta/property tax receipt
 in original. (i) In case if the property is Government
 land/Poramboke land or belonging to religious
 institution as per revenue records/other records and 28/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 the party has not produced any patta to prove his
 right the Registering Officer should return the
 document with check slip stating the facts. (ii) In the above mentioned case, if the party
 produces patta, then the registering officer should
 keep the document pending for ascertaining the
 facts and genuineness of patta from concerned
 department/revenue officials.” 30. Therefore, the further important forward step taken by

 the Registration department through this circular dated 24.01.2012

 is that, the person who present the document for registration

 pertaining to transfer of right of immovable property should

 present the previous original deed or deeds by which the

 executant's secured right over the said property before registering

 the document and after verifying such original documents alone,

 the Registering Authority shall proceed to register the document.

 In case of loss of original documents, the parties were permitted to

 produce certified copy of the document with the copy of the

 complaints recorded in the police station and the advertisement

 issued in this regard in the local daily newspaper. Therefore, this

 circular has made an attempt to further improve the system in

 order to prevent fraudulent transactions and registration of

 documents pertaining to immovable properties. These circulars had

 been in the regime for some years ie., from 2011 onwards. In 29/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 2013, yet another Circular No.18223/C1/2013-3 dated 08.11.2013,

 was issued which reads thus: 31. This circular has made one step further, by which, the

 person who presented the document for registration must produce

 the encumbrance certificate within 10 days prior to such execution,

 in order to ensure that, only the last person ie., the owner of the 30/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 property concerned as per the EC alone executed the deed and

 after verifying this and ensuring the same, the Registering

 Authority shall proceed to register the document. 32. At this juncture ie., after 2013, there has been some

 development in the march of law on the subject concerned, where

 two important judgments have come. Though, in respect of the

 issue, with regard to the case law in the given subject

 chronologically for several years it would be dealt with at later part

 of this judgment, for the sake of the continuity of the present

 narration, let me speak about two decisions. One is by a Full Bench

 of this Court and another is by a decision of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court. 33. Before a Full Bench of this Court in the matter of Latif

 Estate Line India Ltd., Vs. Hadeeja Ammal and others reported in 2011 (2) CTC 1, the following questions were referred

 for adjudication: 34. After having elaborately discussed the issue at hand,

 which were referred to before the Full Bench, their Lordships have 32/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 ultimately held in paragraph No.59, answering such references

 which reads thus: “59. After giving our anxious
 consideration on the questions raised in the
 instant case, we come to the following
 conclusion: - The proper course would be to re- convey the property by a deed of
 conveyance by the transferee in
 favour of the transferor. (iii) Where a transfer is 33/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 effected by way of sale with the
 condition that title will pass on
 payment of consideration, and such
 intention is clear from the recital in
 the deed, then such instrument or
 sale can be cancelled by a deed of
 cancellation with the consent of both
 the parties on the ground of non- payment of consideration. The reason
 is that in such a sale deed,
 admittedly, the title remained with
 the transferor. (iv) In other cases, a complete
 and absolute sale can be cancelled at
 the instance of the transferor only by
 taking recourse to the Civil Court by
 obtaining a decree of cancellation of
 sale deed on the ground inter alia of
 fraud or any other valid reasons.” 35. The second important judgment as I referred to above is

 the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sathya Pal Anand

 Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and others reported in (2016) 10

 SCC 767, where, one of the important issues which is pertaining to

 the present issue herein, was referred for consideration which is as

 follows: extinguishment deed in exercise of powers under Section 69 of the 1908 Act?” 36. Answering the said issue, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 paragraphs 34 and 36 has declared the law, which reads thus: document is registered (see Raja Mohammad Amir
 Ahmad Khan (supra). Section 17 of the Act of 1908
 deals with documents which require compulsory
 registration. Extinguishment Deed is one such
 document referred to in Section 17(1)(b) . Section
 18 of the same Act deals with documents,
 registration whereof is optional. Section 20 of the
 Act deals with documents containing
 interlineations, blanks, erasures or alterations. Section 21 provides for description of property and
 maps or plans and Section 22 deals with the
 description of houses and land by reference to
 Government maps and surveys. There is no express
 provision in the 1908 Act which empowers the
 Registrar to recall such registration. The fact
 whether the document was properly presented for
 registration cannot be reopened by the Registrar 35/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 after its registration. The power to cancel the
 registration is a substantive matter. In absence of
 any express provision in that behalf, it is not open
 to assume that the Sub-Registrar (Registration)
 would be competent to cancel the registration of
 the documents in question. Similarly, the power of
 the Inspector General is limited to do
 superintendence of registration offices and make
 rules in that behalf. Even the Inspector General has
 no power to cancel the registration of any
 document which has already been registered. 36.If the document is required to be
 compulsorily registered, but while doing so some
 irregularity creeps in, that, by itself, cannot result
 in a fraudulent action of the State Authority. Non-
 presence of the other party to the Extinguishment
 Deed presented by the Society before the
 Registering Officer by no standard can be said to be
 a fraudulent action per se. The fact whether that
 was done deceitfully to cause loss and harm to the
 other party to the Deed, is a question of fact which
 must be pleaded and proved by the party making
 such allegation. That fact cannot be presumed.
 Suffice it to observe that since the provisions in the
 Act of 1908 enables the Registering Officer to
 register the documents presented for registration
 by one party and execution thereof to be admitted
 or denied by the other party thereafter, it is
 unfathomable as to how the registration of the 36/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 document by following procedure specified in the
 Act of 1908 can be said to be fraudulent. As
 aforementioned, some irregularity in the procedure
 committed during the registration process would
 not lead to a fraudulent execution and registration
 of the document, but a case of mere irregularity. In
 either case, the party aggrieved by such
 registration of document is free to challenge its
 validity before the Civil Court.” 37. In view of the said authoritative pronouncement of the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sathya Pal Anand case

 cited supra, it has become necessiated for the registration

 Department ie., IG of Registration, the Government of Tamil Nadu

 to withdraw the circular No.67 dated 03.11.2011, as under which,

 the power of annulling the document was vested with Sub-

 Registrar concerned and accordingly by Circular No.41530/u1/17

 dated 20.10.2017, the earlier circular No.67 dated 03.11.2011, has

 been withdrawn. The relevant portion of the order in the circular

 dated 20.10.2017, withdrawing the circular 67 reads thus: 38. Following the said circular dated 20.10.2017, wherein the

 circular 67 dated 03.11.2011, since was withdrawn, the IG of

 Registration has issued further circular in the same Letter

 No.41530/U1/2017 dated 8.11.2017, where the following has been

 stated: 10.Deputy Inspector General of Registration
 concerned has to review these cases periodically
 and during inspections the Register of Complaints
 meant for this purpose shall be reviewed and
 initiated by the Deputy Inspector General of
 Registration. 11.It is once again reiterated that the
 Registering Officers are already empowered
 under Section 83 of the Registration Act, 1908 to
 commence the criminal prosecution for any
 offence under this Act coming to the knowledge of
 a registering officer in his official capacity. This 41/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 point has been sufficiently emphasized by me vide
 reference cited above. This circular is now issued
 to the District Registrars (Admin) to enquire into
 the petitions filed by the aggrieved parties who
 are affected by the fraudulent registration due to
 the no-adherence of the stipulated procedures by
 the Registering Offices. This difference shall be
 borne in mind by the District Registrars (Admin)
 and Deputy Inspector General of Registration
 (DIGs). 39. In view of the withdrawal or cancellation of the circular

 67 dated 03.11.2011, by circular dated 20.10.2017, what shall be

 done in respect of annulment of the document, which has been

 done by the District Registrars after the same having been entered

 in the Index-II by the Registering Officers, was under the

 consideration of the IG of Registration. With a result, he has come

 forward to issue another Circular in Letter No.41530/U1/2017

 dated 09.04.2018, which is a continuation of earlier circular dated

 20.10.2017 as well as 08.11.2017. In this circular dated

 09.04.2018, the IG of Registration has made the following: Deputy Inspector General of Registration is
 instructed to stick on the time limit while passing 46/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 order in appeal. 5.This circular is issued invoking the powers
 conferred under Section 69 of the Registration Act,
 1908.” 42. This is how, the various circulars issued by the IG of

 Registration by invoking the power under Section 69 of 1908 Act

 have been occupying the field for about a decade and more. 43. Though initially under Circular 67, such a power was

 vested with the Sub-Registrar to annul the document, if it is found

 to be a fraudulent one, subsequently, the same was withdrawn in

 the year 2017 as referred to above by subsequent circulars of the

 IG of Registration, in view of the law having been declared in this

 regard, especially in the case of Sathya Pal Anand cited supra by

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in the year 2016.

 DISCUSSION ON CASE LAWS: 44. One of the early judgment in the subject is the State of

 Rajasthan and others Vs. Basant Nahata reported in (2005)

 12 SCC 77. In the State of Rajasthan, the Rajasthan legislature

 inserted Section 22-A in the 1908 Act by Rajasthan Amendment 47/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 Act, 1976 being Act 16 of 1976, whereby, it introduced that section

 under the heading “Documents registration of which is opposed to

 public policy”, under which, the State Government may, by

 notification in the Official Gazette, declare that the registration of

 any document or class of document is opposed to public policy.

 Notwithstanding anything contained in the Act, the Registering

 Officer shall refuse to register any document to which a notification

 issued under Sub-Section (1) of Section 22-A is applicable.

 Followed by the said insertion of Section 22-A, a notification was

 also issued by the State Government. The introduction of Section

 22-A followed by a notification of the State of Rajasthan was a

 subject matter before the Rajasthan High Court, where, the High

 Court declared Section 22-A of the Act as inserted by the

 amendment in the year 1976 as Act 16 of 1976, as unconstitutional.

 Therefore, consequently, the notifications as contained in

 annexures 3, 4, 6 and 7 of the writ petitions concerned were also

 quashed. 45. In the said decision , the question posed before the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court was, what is the public policy, whether the

 determination of public policy is necessarily a legislative function

 or an executive action and in order to determine what is the public

 policy, whether such power can be delegated to the legislative 48/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 authority and if such decision is made by making any provision in

 the legislation, whether that legislation can be considered to be in

 conformity with the constitutional mandate or not. Answering the

 said question, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that, essential

 legislative functions cannot be delegated and while delegating,

 legislature should lay down criteria or standard. Unguided,

 uncontrolled and vague delegation would render the Statute or

 provision unconstitutional. It has also been held that, under

 separation of powers under Article 50 of the Constitution, function

 of judiciary is to interpret as to what is public policy, legislature

 therefore cannot delegate such function to executive. Finality

 cannot be attached to a decision of executive in this regard when

 the same falls within the exclusive domain of judiciary, the law

 dealing with the rights of citizens must be clear and unambiguous.

 Therefore, the statutory provision was held to be ultravires to Article 14 and 246 of the Constitution on the ground of delegation

 of essential legislative function to the executive ie., the State. By

 holding so, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its conclusion has held as

 follows: [See also K. Panchapagesa Ayyar and another Vs. K.
 Kalyanasundaram Ayyar and Others , AIR 1957
 MADRAS 472] 56.Similar view has been taken in Syed
 Abdullah Sahib Vs. Syed Rahmatulla Sahib alias
 Baji Sahib and others [AIR 1960 MADRAS 274] 51/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 stating: 57.Hence, Section 22-A of the Act through a
 subordinate legislation cannot control the
 transactions which fall out of the scope thereof. 52/108 http://www.judis.nic.in 58.We have noticed hereinbefore the effect of
 a power of attorney under the Indian Contract Act or the Power of Attorney Act . A subordinate
 legislation which is not backed up by any statutory
 guideline under the substantive law and opposed to
 the enforcement of a legal right, in our opinion,
 thus, would not be valid. 59.The question can be considered from
 another angle. A person may not have any near
 relative or is otherwise unable to attend the office
 of the Sub-Registrar or Registrar within whose
 jurisdictions the property is situated. He may even
 be out of the country. In absence of any substantive
 provisions contained in a parliamentary or
 legislative act, he cannot be refrained from dealing
 with his property in any manner he likes. Such
 statutory interdict would be opposed to one's right
 of property as envisaged under Section 300 A of the
 Constitution of India. 60.The scope and effect of public policy has
 been construed differently by this Court in different
 cases; see for example Renusagar Power Co. Ltd.
 vs. General Electric Co. [(1994) Supp. ( 1) SCC 644]
 and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. vs. Saw
 Pipes Ltd. [(2003) 5 SCC 705]. 53/108 http://www.judis.nic.in 61.Hence, it becomes amply clear that it is not
 possible to define Public policy with precision at any
 point of time. It is not for the executive to fill these
 grey areas as the said power rests with judiciary.
 Whenever interpretation of the concept "public
 policy" is required to be considered it is for the
 judiciary to do so and in doing so even the power of
 the judiciary is very limited. 62.Even for the said purpose, the part dealing
 with public policy in Section 23 of the Indian
 Contract Act is required to be construed in
 conjunction with other parts thereof. 63.A further question which arises is whether
 having regard to the doctrine of separation of
 powers what is essentially within the exclusive
 domain of the judiciary can be delegated to the
 executive unless policy behind the same is finally
 laid down. 64.A thing which itself is so uncertain cannot
 be a guideline for any thing or cannot be said to be
 providing sufficient framework for the executive to
 work under it. Essential functions of the legislature
 cannot be delegated and it must be judged with
 touchstone of Article 14 and Article 246 of the
 Constitution of India. It is, thus, only the ancillary 54/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 and procedural powers which can be delegated and
 not the essential legislative point. 65.The contention raised on behalf of the
 Appellants herein that the State, being higher
 authority, having been delegated with the power of
 making declaration in terms of Section 22-A of the
 Act, would not be abused is stated to be rejected.
 Such a question does not arise herein as the
 provision has been held to be ultra vires Articles 14 and 246 of the Constitution of India. 66.The contention raised to the effect that this
 Court would not interfere with the policy decision is
 again devoid of any merit. A legislative policy must
 conform to the provisions of the constitutional
 mandates. Even otherwise a policy decision can be
 subjected to judicial review. [See Cellular Operators
 Association of India and Others vs. Union of India
 and Others ( 2003) 3 SCC 186 and Clariant
 International Ltd. and Another vs. Securities &
 Exchange Board of India (2004) 8 SCC 524] 67.For the reasons aforementioned, we do not
 find any merit in this appeal which is dismissed
 accordingly. No costs. 68.So far as amendments made by other
 States are concerned, we are of the opinion that any
 order passed by a Sub-Registrar or Registrar 55/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 refusing to register a document pursuant to any
 notification issued under Section 22-A of the Act
 would not be reopened.” 46. One of the subsequent important decision on the subject

 is the case from a Full Bench of Andhra Pradesh High Court, in Yanala Malleshwari and others v. Ananthula Sayamma and

 others , 2007 (1) CTC 97. In the said judgment it was held by the

 Full Bench of the said High Court that, cancellation of agreement

 of sale unilaterally by one party of the agreement is valid, by

 majority it has been held that a writ Court under Article 226 of the

 Constitution of India has got no power to entertain a writ petition

 to invalidate a cancellation deed or cancellation of an instrument

 which purports to nullify a sale deed. 47. Pursuant to the said decision of the Full Bench of the

 Andhra Pradesh High Court, it triggered the Andhra Pradesh

 Government to introduce a Rule ie., Rule 26(k) to the Andhra

 Pradesh Rules, by making an amendment dated 29.11.2006, which

 reads thus: Provided that the registering officer shall
 dispense with the execution of cancellation deeds by
 executant and claimant parties to the previously
 registered deeds of conveyance on sale before him if
 the cancellation deed is executed by a civil Judges
 or a Government Officer competent to execute
 Government Orders declaring the properties
 contained in the previously registered conveyance
 on sale to be Government or Assigned or
 Endowment lands or properties not registrable by
 any provision of law. (ii) Save in the manner provided for above, no
 cancellation deed of a previously registered deed of
 conveyance on sale before him shall be accepted for
 presentation of registration." 48. Subsequently, a writ petition in W.P.No.8567 of 2008 in

 the matter of G.D.Subramaniam Vs. The Sub-Registrar and

 others reported in 2009 (1) CTC 709, came up for consideration

 before a Single Bench of this Court, where the issue was, whether 57/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 the unilateral cancellation made on the sale deed executed and

 registered without the knowledge of the purchaser ie., the person

 who claim under the sale deed is valid? The learned Judge of this

 Court after having analysed the issue in detail rendered a decision

 on 10.02.2009, where the learned Judge, after having gone through

 the import of Yanala Malleshwari case cited supra of the Full

 Bench of Andhra Pradesh High Court has recorded so, in

 paragraphs 20 and 21 which reads thus: 21.With respect, I am unable to subscribe
 myself to the said view taken by the majority for the
 reasons which follow. Though in para 54 of the
 judgment, a reference has been made to Section 32-
 A of the Indian Registration Act, which was recently
 introduced, the learned Judge has not dealt with the
 same elaborately. Nobody can have any quarrel over
 the legal position that a deed of cancellation of a
 sale of immovable property of value Rs.100/-and
 upwards, is a document which needs compulsory
 registration. But the learned Judge has taken the
 view that to revoke a sale or to cancel the same, the 59/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 consent or knowledge of the purchaser is not at all
 required. In my considered opinion, as I have
 already stated, a sale being a bilateral contract,
 more particularly in view of Section 32-A of the
 Indian Registration Act, if to be cancelled, it should
 be done bilaterally by both the parties to the sale.
 The learned Judge has expressed the apprehension
 that if the law is so interpreted so as to hold that
 the Registering Officer has power to refuse to
 register a cancellation deed, then, it would render Section 126 of the Transfer of Property Act, which
 enables the donor of a gift to cancel it or revoke the
 same, ineffective. With respect, I am of the view,
 that such apprehension has no basis. Section 126 of
 the Transfer of Property Act is a special provision
 dealing with the power of the donor to revoke a gift
 deed in certain circumstances. Such kind of
 revocation does not require the consent of the
 beneficiary of the gift. Basically, such a gift is not a
 contract in terms of the definition of contract as
 found in the Indian Contract Act , since gift is a
 transfer made voluntarily without consideration,
 whereas, a sale of an immovable property is a
 contract entered into between two parties where
 consideration is a sine-qua -non. Therefore,
 revocation of a gift deed cannot be equated to
 cancellation of a sale deed. Both operate on
 different spheres. A reference has also been made
 in the judgment to Section 23-A of the Registration
 Act. In my considered opinion, Section 23-A which 60/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 speaks of re-registration of certain documents has
 nothing to do with cancellation of a validly executed
 document. It is not to say that invariably in all
 cases, the registering officer should refuse to
 register a cancellation deed. We cannot generalise
 all deeds of cancellation as illegal or void so as to
 say that such documents cannot be registered at all.
 All I would say is that such cancellation deeds which
 are executed bilaterally by both the parties to the
 earlier document can be registered by the
 registering officer, provided, the other requirements
 of the Indian Registration Act are satisfied. But
 those cancellation deeds executed unilaterally by
 one party to the earlier transaction, without the
 consent of the other party and without complying
 with the requirements of Section 32-A of the Indian
 Registration Act, alone are to be rejected by the
 Registering Officer.” 49. After having analysed various decisions hitherto rendered

 on the subject, the learned Judge has ultimately concluded with the

 following proposition in paragraph No.31 of the judgment which

 reads thus: (ii) A deed of cancellation of a sale executed
 by mutual consent by all parties to the sale
 deed, if presented for registration, the
 registering Officer is bound to register the
 same provided the other requirements like Section 32-A of the Registration Act have
 been complied with. (iii) The Registering Officer is obliged legally
 to reject and to refuse to register a deed of
 cancellation of a sale unilaterally executed
 without the knowledge and consent of other
 parties to the sale deed and without
 complying with sec.32A of the Registration
 Act.” 50. Subsequently, a similar issue came up for consideration

 before a Division Bench of this Court in E.R.Kalaivan vs. The

 Inspector General of Registration and another reported in

 (2009) 4 CTC 618, where also the question which arose for

 consideration is that, whether the Registrar who is empowered to

 register the documents under the Indian Registration Act could

 register a document unilaterally executed by the vendor cancelling 62/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 the earlier sale made. In the said Division Bench judgment, the

 learned Judges having considered various earlier judgments

 including the Full Bench judgment of Andhra Pradesh High Court

 in Yanala Malleshwari and others v. Ananthula Sayamma and

 others , 2007 (1) CTC 97 and also other related judgments

 including G.D.Subamaniam case, held that, the view expressed

 by the learned Judge in G.D.Subamaniam case is to be approved. In the said judgment , the Division Bench has also adverted to the

 decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Yanala Malleshwari case cited supra and subsequent improvement made in Andhra

 Pradesh Rules by inserting rule 26(1c) and after analysing these

 aspects, the Division Bench has held as follows: 15. As indicated in the above judgment, the
 principles of natural justice are also to be adhered
 to by the Registering Officer while dealing with a
 deed of cancellation of sale. If a unilateral
 cancellation deed is allowed to be registered,
 without the knowledge and consent of the other
 party to the earlier contract, as held by the Division
 Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, such
 registration would cause violence to the principles
 of natural justice and lead to unnecessary litigation
 emanating therefrom. 16. By the said Rule 26(k)(ii), it was directed
 that no cancellation deed of a previously registered
 deed of conveyance on sale before him shall be
 accepted for presentation for registration. 17. That Rule was questioned before the
 Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of Kalitha
 Narasimha v. The State Government of A.P. , in
 W.P.No.3744 of 2007 and on the ground that the
 amendment was contrary to the judgment of the 64/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 Full Bench in the case of Yanala Malleshwari and
 others v. Ananthula Sayamma and others , 2007 (1)
 CTC 97. By order dated 13.3.2007, the Division
 Bench of Andhra Pradesh High Court had upheld
 the said Rule and as on today, the Rule that prevails
 in Andhra Pradesh is that the cancellation deed of
 previously registered deed of conveyance on sale
 cannot be accepted for presentation by the
 Registrar unilaterally. 18. In this context, we may also usefully refer
 to the judgment of a learned single Judge of this
 Court in G.D.Subramaniam v. The Sub-Registrar,
 Konur , 2009 CIJ 243 Madras. The learned Judge has
 extensively considered the scope of registration of
 cancellation of sale deed and had ultimately held
 that such unilateral cancellation of deed cannot be
 made in the absence of any specific provision for
 the Registrar to do so. We are entirely in agreement
 with the said view taken by the learned single
 Judge. 19. That apart, on the facts of this case, our
 attention is not drawn to any of the specific
 provision under the Registration Act empowering
 the Registrar to entertain a document of
 cancellation for registration on the ground that the
 sale consideration was not paid and consequently,
 received by the vendor. Further, in our opinion,
 when the Registrar satisfies himself on the perusal 65/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 of the document, wherein it is stated that the full
 sale consideration is received and on such
 satisfaction, entertain the document for
 registration, cannot thereafter be conferred with a
 power for cancellation of the deed on the ground
 that the full sale consideration was not paid and
 received by the vendor. Conferring such power on
 the Registrar would tantamount to conferring a
 power to decide the disputed questions. That apart,
 as already stated, in the absence of any provision
 specifically empowering the Registrar to entertain a
 document of cancellation for registration, without
 the signature of both the vendor and the purchaser,
 the deed cannot be entertained. For the said
 reason, we find no infirmity in the impugned
 circular issued by the Inspector General of
 Registration. 20. There is one more aspect. A person, who
 claims that the sale consideration has not been
 paid, as some undertaking was given at the time of
 registration, is not without any remedy. A provision
 of cancellation of such deed of registration is also
 available to enable such of those vendors to
 approach the civil Court and redress their
 grievance. In this context, the judgments of the
 Supreme Court as well as the Division Bench of this
 Court are not of any assistance to the appellant on
 the facts of this case as, particularly, in those two 66/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 cases, the prime consideration was whether a
 document which is opposed to public policy could
 be registered or not. Merely because the words
 "cancellation deed" was also incorporated in the
 Government Order dated 22.9.2000, which was
 subsequently set aside by the Division Bench, that
 would not give a right for a vendor to present the
 document of cancellation of the sale deed for
 registration without reference to the purchaser. If
 such a situation is allowed, it would certainly put
 the purchaser in trouble. Further, the Division
 Bench of this Court in Writ Appeal No.194 of 2009,
 by judgment dated 1.4.2009, had in fact set aside
 such a document of cancellation which was
 registered. The said judgment of the Division Bench
 was subsequently followed by another Division
 Bench in Writ Appeal No.789 of 2009 dated
 23.6.2009. We are entirely in agreement with those
 Division Bench judgments and for all the reasons
 recorded in this judgment, we are not inclined to
 interfere with the impugned order dated
 19.2.2009.” 51. While that being so, despite all these decisions having

 been rendered by this Court both by the Single Bench as well as

 Division Bench and other decisions by various High Courts as well

 as the Hon'ble Supreme Court on the subject, the issue was not

 concluded. Therefore, at one point of time, ie., in the year 2011, a 67/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 similar issue had been referred to a Full Bench constituted in this

 regard for an authoritative pronouncement in the matter of Latif

 Estate Line India Ltd., represented by its Managing Director

 vs. Hadeeja Ammal and others reported in 2011 (2) CTC 1,

 where among other things, what was the question which was

 relevant for the present subject as recorded, has been extracted

 herein above already. Ultimately, the Full Bench in Latif Estate case cited supra in paragraph No.59 has held the legal proposition

 which has also been quoted hereinabove. While dealing with the

 said issue the Full Bench also has held in paragraph No.54 that

 there has been no provision either in the Transfer of Property Act or in the Registration Act to cancel the deed of sale. The relevant

 portion for easy reference in paragraphs 54 & 55 of the judgment

 reads thus: and such officer shall note on the copy of the
 instrument contained in his books the fact of
 its cancellation.” 55. From the reading of the aforesaid
 provision, it is manifest that three conditions are
 requisite for the exercise of jurisdiction to cancel an
 instrument ie.,
 (1) An instrument is voidable against the
 plaintiff; (2) The plaintiff may reasonably apprehend
 serious injury by the instrument being left or
 outstanding; and (3) In the circumstances of the 69/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 case, the Court considers it proper to grant this
 relief of preventive justice.” 52. Therefore, by the said decision of the Full Bench in Latif

 Estate case, the issue had been given a quietus at that juncture

 where, the important facet of the Full Bench judgment is that, a

 deed of cancellation of a sale unilaterally executed by the

 transferor does not create, assign, limit or extinguish any right,

 title or interest in the property, it is of no effect. Hence such deed

 of cancellation cannot be accepted for registration. Also it was

 further held in the Full Bench judgment that, once title to the

 property is vested in the transferee by the sale of the property, it

 cannot be divested unto the transferor by execution and

 registration of a deed of cancellation even with the consent of the

 parties. The proper course would be to re-convey the property by a

 deed of conveyance by the transferee in favour of the transferor. It

 is also held in the Full Bench judgment that, if consideration is not

 passed fully, then it cannot be stated that the right has been

 transferred. Only in that circumstances, the deed of cancellation

 with the consent of both the parties on the ground of non-payment

 of consideration can be made and in all other cases, a complete and

 absolute sale can be cancelled at the instance of the transferor only

 by taking recourse to the Civil Court by obtaining a decree of 70/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 cancellation of sale deed on the ground inter alia of fraud or any

 other valid reasons. 53. Therefore, the position that has emerged following the

 said authoritative pronouncement of the Full Bench of this Court in Latif Estate case is that, no unilateral cancellation of sale deed

 can be registered by the registering authority as such a unilateral

 cancellation will have no effect. Even with the consent of the

 transferee, such kind of cancellation cannot be made by way of

 deed of cancellation of sale deed. Once the transfer has already

 been completed by registration of the sale deed , in that case , the

 only course available is to re-convey the property by the deed of

 reconveyance by the transferee in favour of the transferor. The one

 exception that was found out by the Full Bench is that, the transfer

 made has not been completed when the full sale consideration has

 not been passed on. Only in that case , with the consent of the

 transferee such kind of transfer could be made and can be

 registered. In all other cases, even if any sale has been effected

 out of fraud or forgery or whatever valid reasons, the owner of the

 property or the transferor cannot cancel the sale already effected

 but only to approach the Civil Court to get a declaration. Therefore,

 this is the governing law on the subject in hand in which there

 could be no much quarrel. 71/108 http://www.judis.nic.in 54. While that being so, a similar issue had come up for

 consideration before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sathya Pal

 Anand Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh , reported in 2016 10

 SCC 767, where, what was the relevant question that was posed

 for consideration has already been quoted hereinabove, according

 to which, the prime question that was decided by the Hon'ble Apex

 Court in Sathya Pal Anand cited supra is, whether the Sub-

 Registrar (Registration) has authority to cancel the registration of

 any document including an extinguishment deed after it is

 registered. Similarly, whether the Inspector General of

 Registration can cancel the registration of the extinguishment deed

 in exercise of powers under Section 69 of the 1908 Act. 55. Taking such interjection and the question posed therein,

 their Lordships having delved into the issue, have held that, there

 is no express provision in the 1908 Act, which empowers the

 Registrar to recall such registration. The fact whether the

 document was properly presented for registration cannot be

 reopened by the Registrar after it is registered. The power to

 cancel the registration is the substantive matter and in absence of 72/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 any express provision in that regard, it is not open to assume that

 the Sub-Registrar, (Registration) would be competent to cancel the

 registration of documents in question. Similarly the power of the

 Inspector General is limited to do superintendence of registration

 office and make rules in that behalf. Even the Inspector General

 has no power to cancel the registration of any document which has

 already been registered. 56. The Supreme Court has further held in this regard that,

 since the provisions in the 1908 Act enable the registering officer

 to register the documents presented for registration by one party

 and execution thereof be admitted by the other party, thereafter, it

 is unfathomable as to how the registration of the document by

 following procedures satisfied in the 1908 Act can be said to be

 fraudulent. Some irregularity in the procedure committed during

 the registration process would not lead to a fraudulent execution

 and registration of the document, but a case of mere irregularity.

 In either case, the party aggrieved by such registration of

 document is free to challenge its validity before the Civil Court. It

 has further been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

 aforecited case that, once the document is registered, it is not open

 to the registering officer to cancel that registration, even if his

 attention is invited to some irregularity committed during the 73/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 registeration of the document. The aggrieved party can challenge

 the registration and validity of the document before the Civil Court. 57. It has also been held that Section 35 of the Act does not

 confer a quasi-judicial power on the registering authority. As has

 been observed in Pork View Enterprises Vs. State Government

 of Tamil Nadu reported in AIR 1990 Mad 251, the registering

 officer is purely administrative and not quasi-judicial. He cannot

 therefore, decide as to whether the document presented for

 registration is executed by the person having title as mentioned in

 the instrument. 58. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has also dealt with Rule

 26(k) of Andhra Pradesh Rules made under Section 69 of 1908 Act. 59. Therefore, by virtue of the said decision of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court, in Sathya Pal Anand case cited supra and also in

 view of the law declared by the Full Bench of this Court in Latif

 Estate case cited supra the field is fully occupied by these two

 decisions. 60. In this context, it is to be noted that, only pursuant to the 74/108 http://www.judis.nic.in Sathya Pal Anand case decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court,

 the IG (Registration) has come forward to withdraw the circular

 dated 03.11.2011, by circular dated 20.10.2017 and new set of

 procedure has been introduced or added, under various circulars in

 the same number ie., Circular No.41530/U1/2017, subsequently,

 ie., on 08.11.2017, 09.04.2018, 31.07.2018 and 09.11.2018. Only

 these circulars issued by the IG of Registration are holding the field

 now. When these circulars were issued step by step, the procedure

 has been made explicit and tightened in order to ensure that

 fraudulent registration should not be permitted to take place. 61. Nevertheless, there has been cases, where, such

 fraudulent transactions or transactions by way of

 misrepresentation or impersonation did take place in the past.

 Though, because of these measures referred to above taken by the

 IG of Registration and Registration Department by issuing various

 circulars, registration of fraudulent transactions now have been

 reduced, it cannot be said that such fraudulent transactions have

 been completely stopped or registration on such documents have

 been totally stopped. 62. Here in the batch of these writ petitions, some of the

 cases had been filed prior to the present regime ie., before Sathya 75/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 Pal Anand judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court as well as Latif Estate case cited supra and various circulars issued in the

 year 2017 and 2018 , referred to above , by the IG of Registration

 and some of the cases had been filed even subsequent to that ie., in

 the year 2018 also. 63. In this context, out of all these cases, only few cases

 illustratively are taken into account for the purpose of narrating

 the facts in order to demonstrate as to how such kind of fraudulent

 activities are still going on. As against such fraudulent activities of

 encumbering with the property of the original owners concerned,

 without their knowledge where for whatever reason such sale

 deeds are registered by the department, the innocent and genuine

 owners of the immovable properties are left with no other option

 except to approach the Civil Court for initiating appropriate civil

 proceedings by filing civil suits seeking declaratory decrees against

 such instruments and documents registered by the registering

 authority. 64. Since this being the position, in view of the settled legal

 proposition in this regard, as has been stated or held in number of

 decisions, very particularly in the Full Bench decision in Latif

 Estate case cited supra and the Hon'ble Supreme Court decision in 76/108 http://www.judis.nic.in Sathya Pal Anand case cited supra, these petitioners or similarly

 placed persons have raised a pertinent question that, merely

 because they are genuine owners of the immovable properties,

 should they be driven to the Civil Court, by thus, should they

 engage a long pending legal battle against the fraudsters and

 subsequent innocent purchasers or third parties, who might have

 fell prey with the fraudsters and by thus, to lead the civil case and

 conduct the case for decades together, to see the light of the day to

 get back the immovable property from such fraudsters? This

 question still loom large, for which the Courts of law, though not in

 a position to give a way out directly, in view of the available

 provisions under Section 1908 Act as well as various other

 connected legal provisions such as Transfer of Property Act,

 Contract Act., etc., this Court, being the judiciary as part of the

 State, though has to confine with its jurisdiction without

 transgressing the other wings of the State, namely, Legislature and

 executive, by strictly adhering to the principle of doctrine of

 separation of powers, is having the feeling of a duty to throw some

 light, which may be in the nature of suggestion, which would be

 greatly helpful to the State and the legislative to think and act,

 which may yield the desired result, so that the innocent owners of

 the immovable properties who lost their property right at the hands

 of fraudsters can retrieve their property and to take a respite by 77/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 having a summary procedure without being driven to the Civil

 Court for having a decades run civil litigation.

 FACTS OF FEW CASES: 65. The facts of every single case in this batch though not

 traversed as it may not be required, for the convenience of easy

 reference and understanding and also to know the intensity of the

 problem being faced by the litigants, the individual facts of few writ

 petitions are recorded hereunder: 66. That the petitioner one S.Kanniammal @ Mangai,

 purchased the landed property in New Survey No.137/2 and Old

 Survey No.204/1, to an extent of 0.59 cents situated at

 Chettikuppam Village, Maduracity Nagar, Marakkanam,

 Tindivanam Taluk, Villupuram District vide registered Document

 No.560/2000. The property was purchased from four persons

 namely, Perumal, P.Sundaram, Sangeetha and M.Vijaya. 67. After some time of the purchase of the property, the

 petitioner left for abroad to pursue her son's studies, where her

 husband met with an accident. Therefore, in order to look after the

 family, the petitioner had to stay abroad for a longer time. 78/108 http://www.judis.nic.in 68. After some years, when the petitioner came to India and

 verified the property by having inspection in the year 2007, to the

 shock of the petitioner, she found that the fourth respondent in the

 writ petition one T.Venkataraman, has been in occupation of the

 property by running a fish farm culture in the name of Sona

 Shrimps and Hatchery. 69. Thereafter, the petitioner filed a criminal complaint

 against the fourth respondent and also filed a civil suit in O.S.No.69

 of 2015, which is pending before the District Munsif Court,

 Tindivanam. It is the case of the petitioner that, the fourth

 respondent, by using her maid by name Kanniammal by hatching a

 plan to grab the property in question, asked to impersonate the

 petitioner by executing a sale deed on 04.04.2001, in favour of one

 Nandha Kumar, which was registered as Document No.497/2001 at

 Sub-Registrar office, Marakkanam, Villupuram District. The said

 Nandha Kumar, in the very next month on 29.05.2001, through

 Document No.819/2001, sold the property to one Ameeral

 Dhanapalu, which was registered in the same Registrar office. The

 said Ameeral Dhanapalu, after six months executed a sale deed in

 Document No.28/2002 dated 17.01.2002 to and in favour of the

 fourth respondent Venkataraman. This is how the fourth 79/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 respondent claimed the ownership of the property of the petitioner

 and all these transactions had taken place in the absence of the

 petitioner, who had been in a foreign country during those years.

 Though criminal complaint and a civil suit has been filed by the

 petitioner, the petitioner could not get back the property so far and

 therefore, she filed this writ petition seeking a Writ of Mandamus

 directing the third respondent, who is the Sub-Registrar concerned,

 to cancel the sale deed, that is, Document No.28/2002, which

 stands in the name of the fourth respondent, in respect of the

 petitioner's property. W.P.No.6008/17: 70. The petitioner in W.P.No.6008/17, one Kasthuriammal,

 stated that, the petitioner's husband one R.Radhakrishnan,

 purchased the landed property with an extent of 48 cents in Survey

 No.9/4B at Irumbedu Village in Chengalpet District in favour of the

 petitioner for a valuable sale consideration on 17.08.1960, from

 one S.Krishnan, vide Document No.3576/1960, registered at the

 office of Sub-Registrar, Sriperambathur. The joint patta was given

 in patta No.112 to the petitioner's land as well as the adjacent land

 which was purchased by R5 & R6, who are the cousins of the

 petitioner. Thereafter, the petitioner wanted to sell the property

 and when she applied for encumbrance certificate on 26.06.2012, 80/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 she shockingly came to know that, the fifth and sixth respondents

 created a forged document in Document No.5187/1989, at the

 office of the Sub-Registrar, Sriperambathur and sold the property

 to the seventh respondent one Vasantha Kumari. 71. It is the case of the petitioner that, the fourth respondent

 is one Rajeshwari, whose husband is T.Radhakrishnan, who is no

 more and the petitioner's husband one R.Radhakrishnan, who is

 also no more. Therefore, by taking advantage of the similar names

 of the petitioner's husband and the fourth respondent's husband,

 the fifth and sixth respondents along with fourth respondent jointly

 sold the property which includes the portion of the property

 belonging to the petitioner. Thereby, the fourth respondent

 impersonated her husband as if that he was R.Radhakrishnan ie.,

 the husband of the petitioner and for the alleged fraudulent action,

 R5 & R6 also supported. Against these transactions, though efforts

 had been taken by the petitioner by making criminal complaint and

 also by making a request to the revenue authorities to cancel the

 patta insofar as the ownership of the property in question is

 concerned, since she could not get back the property, the petitioner

 filed the present writ petition with an amended prayer of

 Mandamus to direct the second and third respondents to cancel the

 forged sale deed in Document No.5187/1989 made in favour of the 81/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 seventh respondent. W.P.No.383/18: 72. The facts of this case as projected by the petitioner is

 that, the petitioner one Devarajan, purchased two vacant house

 sites measuring 1014 sq.ft each totalling 2028 sq. ft in Survey

 No.553/2 and 556/2A2B1 of Vellegoundan Palayam Village,

 Dharmapuri Taluk and District from the legal heirs of one Late.

 Ravikumar namely, R.Maheswari, R.Rajesh, R.Rameshkumar,

 R.Sureshkumar by way of Document No.1477/15 dated 03.06.2015

 for 1014 sq.ft and Document No.1478/15 dated 03.06.2015 for 650

 sq.ft, and 364 sq.ft., both documents were registered at the Sub-

 Registrar office, Dharmapuri. 73. Tracing the title, the petitioner also contended that, the

 said Ravi Kumar has purchased the said land from one

 N.Sundaramurthy, through his power agent D.S.Kanagaraj and one

 Periyasami through his power agent R.Asaithambi. Therefore,

 according to the petitioner, the title was so clear and there was no

 encumbrance and since last 25 years, the petitioner had been

 enjoying the property. The petitioner after purchasing plots had 82/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 constructed two residential houses after getting proper approval

 from the Municipal authorities and resided there till date. Further,

 due to the old age when the petitioner decided to make settlement

 of the said properties to his son namely D.Karthikeyan he made a

 settlement deed. When he approached the Sub-Registrar office

 concerned on 03.07.2017, for registering the settlement deed, it

 was to the shock of the petitioner that the Sub-Registrar claimed to

 have refused to register the settlement deed stating that, the

 property in question had already been sold by way of the earlier

 parental Document No.1112/96 to two different persons through

 two different sale deeds. Therefore, the Sub-Registrar concerned

 refused to register the settlement deed of the petitioner. 74. In fact, in response to the said case projected by the

 petitioner, the second respondent in this writ petition ie., Sub-

 Registrar, Dharmapuri, had filed a counter affidavit, where he has

 disclosed the following: 75. This writ petition is filed by one V.Sukesh Kumar @

 V.Sukesh Nair. He states that since he purchased the property in

 Plot Nos.1252 & 1252-A, in Survey No.247/6A at Mevalurkuppam

 Village, Sriperumbudur Taluk, Kanchipuram District, measuring an

 extent of 5740 sq.ft he became the absolute owner of the said

 property. The said property was purchased from one Sundaravalli

 Rajan, through the sale deed dated 17.02.1997, which was

 registered as Document No.781 of 1997, at the office of the Sub-

 Registrar, Sriperumbudur. 76. The petitioner had been working at China, as such he

 could not maintain the property. Therefore, the petitioner had

 entrusted the same to the petitioner's father one V.Viswambaran, to

 maintain the same on behalf of the petitioner. He had also handed

 over the original documents in respect of the above said property

 including the original sale deed dated 17.02.1997. While so, during

 the year 2000-2001 one Saseendran, has became a close friend of

 the petitioner's father and very often he used to visit the

 petitioner's house at Chennai and he made the father of the 86/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 petitioner to become addict for the habit of Alcohol. 77. In the year 2004, the petitioner's father went away from

 the house, but he did not return back. Despite the efforts taken by

 the petitioner by giving police complaint, the whereabouts of the

 petitioner's father could not be traced. In the year 2012, the

 petitioner came down to Chennai from China and during his visit

 the petitioner has applied for encumbrance certificate in respect of

 the property. However, shockingly it revealed that, the petitioner's

 property was sold to a third party by using a forged power of

 attorney deed dated 20.07.2001, registered as Document

 No.1200/01, on the file of the Sub-Registrar, Virugambakkam. It is

 to be noted that on 20.07.2001, that is the date of execution of the

 power by the petitioner, in favour of the petitioner's father, the

 petitioner was not at all in India. Based on the said forged power of

 attorney dated 20.07.2001, by using the name of the petitioner's

 father, a sale deed was executed dated 23.08.2001, in favour of the

 third respondent in the writ petition one S.Dayakumari, which was

 registered as Document No.4131/01, at the office of the Sub-

 Registrar, Sriperumbudur. 78. After coming to know about the forged transaction, the

 petitioner had lodged a police complaint before the Superintendent 87/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 of Police, Kanchipuram, where FIR has been registered against the

 fourth respondent, including the third respondent and also made a

 representation to the first respondent ie., the District Registrar,

 Chengalpat, who on the said representation issued notice to

 conduct enquiry. However, when the enquiry was pending and the

 investigation of the police complaint was also pending, the third

 respondent in turn had sold out the property to another third party

 namely Arunachalam, which was also registered as Document

 No.10934/12 dated 28.11.2012, before the Sub-Registrar office,

 Kancheepuram District. 79. Therefore, after coming to know about the further sale

 effected on 28.11.2012, over the property of the petitioner, he

 made further representations to the first respondent. However, the

 issue could not be moved further. The police investigation revealed

 that the power of attorney dated 20.07.2001 is a forged one as it

 was created fraudulently. Thereafter, after knowing the said

 developments, the subsequent purchasers namely the third

 respondent and the said Arunachalam realised that they purchased

 the property in question from some body who did not have any

 right or title over the property, and came forward voluntarily to

 cancel the forged sale deed and accordingly, the sale deed between

 the third respondent and Arunachalam stood cancelled and those 88/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 cancellation had been registered as documents in the concerned

 Registrar office. The cancellation deed executed by Arunachalam in

 favour of the third respondent was registered. However, the

 cancellation of sale deed dated 23.08.2001 of the third respondent

 when was presented before the Registrar office for registration, the

 same was refused to be registered stating that, by virtue of the

 present cancellation, the rights already been transferred in favour

 of the third respondent is again being re-transfered to the

 petitioner and therefore, it should be treated only as a separate

 sale and accordingly, the Stamp Duty should be paid. Stating the

 same, an order has been passed by the Sub-Registrar on

 21.09.2015 and challenging the same, the present writ petition is

 filed. 80. The facts of the aforestated cases have been given as

 only illustrative cases to demonstrate as to how these fraudsters

 have been continuing in their onslaught, despite several measures

 are being provided under the guidelines and circulars issued by the

 Inspector General of Registration and because of which how the

 real and true owners of the immovable properties are put into

 trouble, thereby they met the agony and sufferance for years

 together without a final and complete remedy. 89/108 http://www.judis.nic.in 81. As we discussed in the earlier part of this order, the cases

 can be treated under three broad categories. Insofar as the first

 category of cases are concerned, the question is whether the writ

 petitions seeking a prayer to give a direction to the Registering

 authorities to cancel the sale deed or settlement deed in respect of

 the immovable property, can be allowed or not? 82. Insofar as the cases which fall under the first category, on

 the basis of the legal position as has been settled by plethora of

 decisions, especially by the decisions of the Full Bench of this Court

 in Lathif Estate case and also the decision of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in Sathya Pal Anand case cited supra, that kind of

 remedy cannot be given by this Court exercising its powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. As of now, the only remedy

 open to or available to them is either the beneficiary out of the

 forged or fraudulent instruments, under which the title of the

 property transfers in their favour, should voluntarily come forward

 to re-convey the property in question to and in favour of the true

 owners or the true owners shall necessarily approach the

 competent Civil Courts to get a remedy by seeking a declaratory

 relief. 83. After the hearing of this batch of cases and when the 90/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 cases have been reserved for passing orders, this Court has come

 to know about a significant development in this regard, where, the

 State legislature has come forward to legislate an amendment act

 called The Registration (Tamil Nadu Second Amendment) Act,

 2021. Under the said amendment Act, it sought to insert certain

 provisions in the 1908 Act and the Bill was introduced on 2nd

 September, 2021. Subsequently, it seems that, the Bill was passed.

 In order to take note of the salient features of the Amendment Act referred to above , the contents of the Bill as published in the Tamil

 Nadu Government Gazette No.392 dated 2nd September, 2021, is

 extracted hereunder: (2) It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.

 (3) It shall come into force at once. 2. In section 2 of the Registration Act, 1908 (hereinafter

 referred to as the principal Act), after clause (5), the following

 clause shall be inserted, namely:—

 “(5-A) “forged document” shall have the same meaning

 assigned to it in section 470 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860;”. 3. After section 22-A of the principal Act, the following

 section shall be inserted, namely:—

 “22-B. Refusal to register forged documents and other

 documents prohibited by law.— Notwithstanding anything

 contained in this Act, the registering officer shall refuse to register

 the following documents, namely:—

 (1) forged document; (2) document relating to transaction, which is prohibited by

 any Central Act or State Act for the time being in force; (3) document relating to transfer of immovable property by

 way of sale, gift, lease or otherwise, which is attached permanently

 or provisionally by a competent authority under any Central Act or

 State Act for the time being in force or any Court or Tribunal; (4) any other document as the State Government may, by

 notification, specify.” 92/108 http://www.judis.nic.in 4. After section 77 of the principal Act, the following sections

 shall be inserted, namely:—

 “77-A. Cancellation of registered documents in certain

 cases.— (1) The Registrar, either suo motto or on a complaint

 received from any person, is of the opinion, that registration of a

 document is made in contravention of section 22-A or section 22-B,

 shall issue a notice to the executant and all the parties to the

 document and parties to subsequent documents, if any, and all other

 persons who, in the opinion of the Registrar, may be affected by the

 cancellation of the document, to show cause as to why the

 registration of the document shall not be cancelled. On

 consideration of reply, if any received therefor, the Registrar may

 cancel the registration of the document and cause to enter such

 cancellation in the relevant books and indexes. (2) The power under sub-section (1) may also be exercised by

 the Inspector General of Registration. 77-B. Appeal.- (1) Any person aggrieved by an order of the

 Registrar under sub-section (1) of section 77-A may prefer an

 appeal to the Inspector General of Registration within thirty days

 from the date of cancellation of the document and the Inspector

 General of Registration shall pass an order confirming, modifying or

 cancelling the order of the Registrar. (2) In the case of an order passed by the Inspector General of

 Registration under sub-section (2) of section 77-A, an appeal shall 93/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 lie to the State Government within thirty days from the date of the

 order.” 5. After section 81 of the principal Act, the following sections

 shall be inserted, namely:—

 “81-A. Penalty for registering documents in

 contravention of sections 22-A and 22-B.—(1) Every registering

 officer appointed under this Act and every person employed in his

 office for the purposes of this Act, who, being charged with

 registering the documents presented for registration under this Act,

 registers documents in contravention of section 22-A or section 22- B, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may be

 extended to three years, or with fine, or with both. (2) Nothing contained in this section shall apply in the case

 of registration of a document made in good faith. Explanation.— For the purpose of this sub-section, the

 expression “good faith” means any act believed or done by a person

 in good faith with due care, caution and sense of responsibility or by

 mistake of fact believing himself justified by law under section 79 of

 the Indian Penal Code, 1860. 81-B. Offences by companies.—(1) Where an offence

 under this Act has been committed, by a company, every person

 who, at the time the offence was committed, was in-charge of, and

 was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of 94/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of

 the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and

 punished accordingly: Explanation.— For the purposes of this section,— (a) “company” means anybody corporate and includes a firm

 or other association of individuals, and (b) “director” in relation to affirm means a partner in the

 firm.”. 84. The amending Act inserted 6 new Sections namely Section 5(A) , 22-B, 77-A, 77-B, 81-A & 81-B. Probably in order to 95/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 overcome the existing legal position, whereby, there is no power

 vested with the registering authorities or any one who administer

 the Registration Act, 1908 , including the Inspector General of

 Registration concerned, to cancel any document registered for any

 reason, Section 77-A has been introduced. 85. In Section 77-A it is made that, if the Registration of any

 document is made in contravention of Section 22-A or 22-B, it may

 be cancelled by the Registrar concerned. Section 22-B enumerates

 four types of documents whose registration can be refused by the

 Registrar, wherein the first type of document is a forged document.

 Under Clause 5-A of Section 2 as has been inserted by the

 amending Act, the word “forged document” has been explained

 that it shall have the same meaning assigned to it in Section 470 of

 the Indian Penal Code, 1860. 86. Section 470 of IPC reads thus: 87. The word 'false document' has occurred in Section 470,

 as if it is made wholly or in part by forgery which is designated “a 96/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 forged document”. Since the words “by forgery”, is indicated in

 Section 470, the meaning of the word “forgery”, as provided under IPC in Section 463, can be taken into aid. Section 463 of IPC reads

 thus: 88. Who ever makes any false document with intent to cause

 damage or injury to the public or to any person or to support any

 claim or title or to cause any person to part with property or to

 enter into any express or implied contact or with intent to commit

 fraud or that fraud may be committed, he is said to have committed

 forgery. 89. The process of making a false document also is explained

 in IPC under Section 464, which reads thus: 90. That is how a forged document must have the meaning.

 Therefore, such kind of forged document, if it comes for

 registration, the same can be refused by the Registrar under

 Section 22-B, which is one of the proposed amendment as per the

 amending Act referred to above . 91. Though certain other documents had been mentioned, in

 respect of the present issue, we need not traverse into those

 aspects. So, if the Registrar comes to a conclusion that a particular

 document presented before him is a forged document, he can

 refuse to register the same. If he refused to register the same

 under Section 22-B, then, appeal can very well be filed against such

 refusal under Section 72 of the 1908 Act. At the same time, if

 already a document is registered which comes to the notice of the

 Registrar either suo motu or by complaint, after giving notice to the

 persons concerned including the parties who may be affected by

 the cancellation of such documents and after getting show cause

 from them, such document may be cancelled. Such power is now

 vested with the Registrar concerned under Section 77-A as inserted 99/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 by the amending Act. 92. Once a cancellation is effected by the Registrar

 concerned under Section 77-A, appeal would lie against such order,

 to be preferred by any aggrieved party, under Section 77-B to the

 Inspector General of Registration, within 30 days from the

 cancellation of the document. Since the power under Section 77-A

 can also be exercised by the Inspector General of Registration

 under sub-section 2 of Section 77-A, if any order is passed by

 Inspector General of Registration under sub-section 2 of Section

 77-A, appeal would lie before the State Government under Sub-

 Section 2 of Section 77-B. 93. Section 81-A makes it as a punitive action against the

 registering officer and the persons employed in the office of the

 Registrar, in case if they register any document in contravention of

 Section 22-A or 22-B. Similar punitive action is possible against

 the persons who committed the same offence who are companies,

 where the Director, Secretary or any person who are incharge or

 responsible of the company's affairs, for the conduct of the

 business of the Company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the 100/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 offence and liable to be punished accordingly. Therefore, by

 inserting these provisions, the State legislature now has opened a

 way to find out a solution for the vexed problem which has been

 lingering in the society despite number of orders having been

 passed by law Courts as discussed in the earlier part of this order. 94. However, insofar as the present status is concerned, if

 the present amending Act has come into effect or the amended

 provisions which have been inserted in the 1908 Act are given

 effect to, certainly the parties can work out their remedy seeking

 for cancellation of such documents, which, according to the

 aggrieved parties, were documents registered out of fraud or

 forgery etc. But, in this context, whether a particular document is

 a forged document within the meaning of Section 470 of IPC is to

 be proved by the party who seeks such cancellation at the hands of

 the Sub-Registrar under Section 77-A of the Act. 95. Be that as it may, till such a mechanism comes to effect,

 in other words, till the amended provisions of 1908 Act, as

 discussed above, comes to effect, the prayer sought for to cancel

 any instrument registered already by a registering authority,

 cannot be granted by this Court, in view of the settled legal

 position as discussed extensively in the earlier part of this order. 101/108 http://www.judis.nic.in 96. Though such a opening has been given by the State

 Government through the amending Act namely Registration (Tamil

 Nadu Second Amendment) Act, 2021, whether this amendment

 would be sufficient to meet all situations, itself is a question.

 However, the same cannot be gone into by this Court in this batch

 of cases, as the validity or otherwise of these amendment Act is not

 questioned here as that stage is yet to come. 97. However, as on today, taking into account, the prevailing

 legal positions, as discussed hereinabove, this Court, before parting

 with this batch of cases, in the interest of general public, wants to

 give certain suggestions to the State for its consideration and

 needful action. SUGGESTIONS: 98. Assuming that the power of cancellation now has been

 vested with the registering authorities, to cancel the forged

 document, if any registered, either against the order of such

 cancellation or order of refusal of such cancellation, the aggrieved

 party can prefer an appeal under Section 77-B to the Inspector

 General of Registration. At the same time, the Inspector General of

 Registration himself can exercise such power of cancellation or

 otherwise under sub- Section 2 of Section 77-A and in that case , as 102/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 against the order of Inspector General of Registration, the

 aggrieved party can prefer appeal to the State Government. 99. In this context, it is to be noted that, hitherto ie., till the

 amending provisions come into effect, the legal position would be

 that, aggrieved party has to approach the civil Court to get a

 declaration. Therefore, the power hitherto being exercised by the

 Civil Court now is going to be exercised by the Inspector General of

 Registration or the State Government as the case may be. 100. Though the Inspector General of Registration or the

 State Government authorities in exercising their appeal powers

 under Section 77-B can be treated as quasi-judicial authorities or

 such exercise of appeal power can be treated as a quasi-judicial

 function, whether such kind of summary disposal to be undertaken

 either by the Inspector General of Registration or State

 Government official would be sufficient to find out the solution of

 any mixed issue of title over the property as that would be

 inevitably involved in every such case. 101. Therefore, in order to have an effective judicial / quasi-

 judicial mechanism, as against the order of cancellation of

 instruments by registering authorities or order of refusal of 103/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 cancellation of instruments by the registering authorities, in every

 revenue district, the concerned District Registrar (Registration)

 can be conferred with the power to act as an appellate authority.

 As against the order to be passed by such first appellate authority /

 District Registrar (Registration), further appeal shall lie before one

 or more Appellate Tribunal to be constituted in this regard. 102. Such appellate Tribunal shall be headed by a judicial

 person who is or has been a Judge of a High Court. Two members,

 among whom one shall be deputed by the State Government from

 the Registration Department not below the rank of DIG of

 Registration and another shall be deputed by the State Government

 from the Revenue Department not below the rank of District

 Revenue Officer, shall be nominated. 103. The decision to be made by the Appellate Tribunal may

 be treated as final and for all practical purposes, the Tribunal shall

 be treated as a Civil Court and for regulating the procedure of

 deciding the appeal, the code of civil procedure can be made

 applicable. 104. This kind of mechanism can be made possible as already

 under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens 104/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 Act, 2007 [In short, ' Senior Citizens Act '], the Sub-Divisional

 Magistrates ie., Revenue Divisional Officers are constituting

 Tribunal under Section 7 of the Senior Citizens Act, who are vested

 with the power under Section 23 of the said Act to declare any

 document of settlement or gift made by senior citizens to and in

 favour of legal heirs or any person as void. 105. Therefore, if this kind of redressal mechanism is

 provided, it would be a viable and effective alternative redressal

 forum for number of persons who have been hitherto driven from

 pillars to posts for retrieval of their valuable immovable properties

 which they acquired either by way of inheritance or out of their

 legally hard earned fortune. CONCLUSION: 106. In view of the aforestated discussions, the prayer sought

 for in the First Category of cases in W.P.Nos.10176 & 10177 of

 2011, 6737 of 2014, 20946, 6008, 19674 of 2017 and 28728 &

 27778 of 2018, for a Writ of Mandamus to cancel the instruments

 registered already in the concerned Registrar office on the ground

 of fraud or otherwise, cannot be granted by this Court, where, the

 parties can be relegated either to approach the competent Civil 105/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 Court or to approach the Registrar concerned, if the amending Act

 is given effect to. 107. In the second category of cases in W.P.Nos.45728 &

 45729 of 2006, 2243 & 2244 of 2012, 17532 of 2016, 9 of 2017 &

 383 of 2018, where they come to this Court as against the order of

 refusal of registration made by the Registrar for various reasons,

 even this category of cases cannot be entertained here and pass

 orders, in view of the appeal remedy provided under Section 72 of

 the 1908 Act as against which, further appeal also is provided

 under Section 77 of the 1908 Act. 108. In respect of third category of cases where the writ

 petitions have been filed questioning the action of the Sub-

 Registrar in keeping the document as pending document either on

 the alleged under-valuation or payment of deficit stamp duty and

 for other prayers that is altogether a different issue which cannot

 be covered under the present set of cases for which judgment is

 rendered now. Therefore, those third category of cases in

 W.P.Nos.23023 of 2004, 16510 of 2006, 21984 of 2008, 10151 &

 13705 of 2011, 28181 & 32194 of 2016 are hereby de-linked and

 the Registry is directed to list those cases before the appropriate

 Bench for decision. 106/108 http://www.judis.nic.in 109. With the aforesaid directions, the writ petitions in

 Categories 1 & 2 referred to above are dismissed and the writ

 petitions in category 3 are de-linked. However, there shall be no

 order as to costs. Consequently, all connected miscellaneous

 petitions are closed. Note: In view of the present lock down owing to
 COVID-19 pandemic, a web copy of the order
 may be utilized for official purposes, but,
 ensuring that the copy of the order that is
 presented is the correct copy, shall be the
 responsibility of the advocate/litigant concerned.

 To 1.The Chief Minister Cell,
 State of Tamil Nadu,
 Secretariat, Fort St., George,
 Chennai – 600 009. 2.The District Collector,
 Office of the Collectorate,
 Villupuram District. 3.The Sub Registrar,
 Marakkanam,
 Villupuram District. 107/108 http://www.judis.nic.in
 R.SURESH KUMAR., J. MR

 PRE-DELIVERY ORDERS MADE IN
 W.P.Nos.28728, 27778 & 383 of 2018, 23023 of 2004,
 45728, 45729 & 16510 of 2006, 21984 of 2008,
 13705, 10151, 10176, 10177 of 2011, 2243 & 2244 of 2012,
 6737 of 2014, 17532, 28181 & 32194 of 2016,
 9, 6008, 19674 & 20946 of 2017

 29.10.2021 108/108 http://www.judis.nic.in