I was a prepaid customer of hathway broadband till oct-2015 with account no - 1105574.in first week of november i moved from pimpri chinchwad area because of job change and requested closure of the account and discontinued using the hathway service. I have communicated the same to hathway person "arjun"- [protected]. But even after closing the connection i was getting these emails for bill generation which was out of my understanding as i was prepaid customer and they cannot generate bills for a prepaid connection. Prepaid itself means one has paid for using the service in advance so how can they generate the bill for my account. I contacted the customer support and they told me to ignore the bills and assured my that they will take care of it as it can be mistake by their billing department. I have logged complaints as well against them - one of number i have is[protected]. But now after almost three years i'm getting calls from person claiming to be from delhi consumer court and asking me to pay the bill of 5000+ or else a criminal case will be filed against me. The way they talk is very rude and they doesn't even sound professionals so i ignored those calls as i know i haven't used the service from 2015 so i am not liable to pay these fake bills. Now i am getting the message from bv-legalb stating a legal notice has been sent to user for hathway broadband a/c no - [protected] which is different from my account number when i was using hathway (My account number was - 1105574 its mentioned in their bills).in the message they mentioned to contact legal team at [protected], [protected]. I've mailed to hathway ([protected]@hathway.net, [protected]@hathway.net, digital. [protected]@hathway.net) a number of time but there was no response from there side explaining why they have generated such fake bills on an account which is closed and not in use from 2015. And how they have issued different account number on my name without communicating with me. This is a complete case of fraud to extract money from customers by generating fake bills and harassment from hathway as it is just disturbing me daily and they are not ready to give any explanation or resolving the issue. I've seen a lot of complaints similar to mine so wanted to knock the door of consumer complaints to get this resolved.