Heard learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Anil Kumar Singh, learned AGA for the State Respondent and perused the record. The present bail application has been filed on behalf of applicant with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 09 of 2024 for offence punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 34 of the I.P.C. and Section 66-D of the Information Technology Act, registered at Police Station Cyber Crime, District Agra, during pendency of the trial. Brief facts of the case are that the FIR was lodged on 09.02.2024 against co-accused Nilan Dkhar. According to the FIR, the informant is running a firm namely M/s ASYS Agro, who came in contact with one of the co-accused, Nilan Dkhar, who was claiming himself to the Managing Director of Bhimraj Industries. A business deal was entered between the informant and the co-accused Nilan Dkhar with regard to supply of 38,000 jute bags to the informant's firm and in this regard the informant transferred Rs. 7,85,610/- on various account numbers belonging to the Nilan Dkhar through online mode. After receiving the aforesaid amount, the informant did not receive any communication from the co-accused Nilan Dkhar. Feeling aggrieved, the informant lodged the present FIR. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is a citizen of Yaounge Camroon, Africa. He is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case with ulterior motive. Learned counsel for the applicant further submits that the the applicant is not named in the FIR and his name was surfaced during the course of investigation. It is further submitted that the Account in which the aforesaid transactions have been made is not in the name of the applicant as such, the applicant has no connection in this crime. He submits that the applicant has not received any penny from the alleged transaction and is not a beneficiary thereof. He has next argued that the applicant has no previous criminal history and on the basis of confessional statement, one case is registered against the applicant and if the applicant is released on bail, he shall not misuse the liberty of bail. He is languishing in jail since 04.04.2024. Per contra, learned A.G.A. has supported the order passed by the Sessions Court and vehemently opposed the prayer for grant of bail to the applicant and submits that the allegations involved are very serious in nature and the delay in lodging the F.I.R. cannot be said to be fatal to the case at this juncture while considering the application of bail. But he could not point out any material to the contrary. He, however, submits that in case the applicant is released on bail, he will again indulge in similar activities and will misuse the liberty of bail. He further submits that one Apple iPhone Pro Max and Keypad Mobile Micromax X413 and hotspot dongle have been recovered from the possession of the applicant. When the mobile phone was opened and checked, chatting and WhatsApp chats were found. On interrogation the accused accepted that they had created a fake company and contacted businessmen through fake websites through Google, Just Dial and Social media and took money in advance in different bank accounts. It is a settled law that while granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the nature of accusation, the nature of the evidence in support thereof, the severity of the punishment which conviction will entail, the character of the accused, the circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, his role and involvement in the offence, his involvement in other cases and reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with. This Court finds that in India, the rapid advancement of technology and the widespread adoption of digital infrastructure have led to a significant rise in cyber-crimes including phishing scams, ransomware attacks, cyber-stalking and data breaches. Initiatives like Digital India have accelerated the country's' digital transformation, but they have also exposed vulnerabilities that cyber-criminals exploit. Cyber-crime has been affecting the people across the nation, irrespective of religion, region, education or class. Newspapers, Magazines, You Tube Channels and Social Media are brimming with ordeals of an uncountable number of innocent victim of the cyber-crime, who are defrauded of their hard earned money. Such cyber-crimes are rampant in our society, and must be curbed. Cyber-crime in our country is like a silent virus stealthy, disruptive, and costing society more than just money, but trust, security and progress. In view of the above, the Court is not inclined to release the applicant on bail. The bail application is, accordingly, rejected. Order Date :- 17.4.2025
 
pks