(Per the Hon'ble Sri Justice A.Abhishek Reddy)

 Smt. T. Usha Bhai, the wife of the detenu viz., T. Raja Singh

Lodh @ Raju Singh @ Raja Singh, has filed the present Writ

Petition, challenging the Detention Order passed by

2nd respondent, who by exercising the powers conferred under

Section 3 (2) of the Telangana Prevention of Dangerous Activities of

Bootleggers, Dacoits, Drug-Offenders, Goondas, Immoral Traffic

Offenders, Land Grabbers, Spurious Seed Offenders, Insecticide

Offenders, Fertiliser Offenders, Food Adulteration Offenders, Fake

Document Offenders, Scheduled Commodities Offenders, Forest

Offenders, Gaming Offenders, Sexual Offenders, Explosive

Substances Offenders, Arms Offenders, Cyber Crime Offenders and

White Collar or Financial Offenders Act, 1986 (in short, 'the Preventive Detention Act '), had issued proceedings vide

SB(1) No.156/PD-1/HYD/2022, dated 25.08.2022, and approved

by the 1st respondent vide G.O.Rt.No.1651 General Administration

(Spl. {Law & Order}) Department, dated 26.08.2022 and confirmed

vide G.O.Rt.No.1977 General Administration (Spl. {Law & Order})

Department, dated 19.10.2022, alleging that the detenu has been

engaging himself in unlawful acts of causing communal

disturbances with his provocative speeches and thereby affecting

the public order at large. The ground on which the impugned

detention order is passed by the 2nd respondent is that the detenu 3 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 was mainly involved in three crimes viz., Crime Nos.68 and 261 of

2022 of Mangalhat Police Station and Crime No.71 of 2022 of

Shahinayathgunj Police Station. 2) It is the case of the petitioner that the detention order is

passed without application of mind, in a hasty manner and

without there being any subjective satisfaction of the authority,

who passed the detention order. That the impugned detention

order is passed only to get over the order of the learned

XIV Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, who has rejected the

request of the police to remand the detenu to judicial custody.

That the detenu was produced before the learned XIV Additional

Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Hyderabad, in connection with

crime No.261 of 2022, and the learned Metropolitan Magistrate has

ordered for release of the detenu on submission of personal bond,

and imposed certain conditions. Further, in connection with crime

Nos.68 of 2022 of Mangalhat Police Station and 71 of 2022 of

Shahinathagunj Police Station, the detenu was served with notice

under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. only on 25.08.2022. That the detenu is

being continued in jail due to passing of the impugned detention

order, which is passed only with the sole purpose of seeing that the

detenu is kept in jail inspite of being enlarged on bail. Hence, the

present writ petition is filed. AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 3) A counter has been filed mainly stating that the writ petition

is not maintainable as the same is filed pending representation of

the detenu before the Advisory Board (Subsequently, by the time

arguments were commenced, the impugned detention order has

been confirmed by the Advisory Board vide G.O.Rt.No.1977

General Administration (Spl. (Law & Order) Department, dated

19.10.2022). The detenu being the Member of Legislative Assembly

is duty bound to protect the interest and welfare of the people, but

he resorted to the heinous act of intentionally uploading the video

of a speech to create hatred and ill-will between the people

belonging to Hindu and Muslim Religions. It is further averred

that the detenu had a chequered criminal history of being involved

in more than 100 criminal cases including the offences of murder,

various other grave and dangerous offences involving property and

human body, though the detenu being an MLA is supposed to

conduct himself in a dignified manner both inside and outside the

House (Assembly). Even the political party, to which the detenu

belongs to, had also suspended the detenu from the party, which

strengthens the correctness of the impugned detention order. The

conduct of the detenu in making hate speeches targeting a

particular community squarely falls within the ambit of

disturbance to the public order. The State being endowed with the

responsibility of protecting the lives and properties of people of the 5 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 State, has rightly invoked its power under the Preventive Detention

Act and as a preventive measure had detained the husband of the

petitioner as he has been indulging in grave and dangerous

offences such as delivering provocative and inflammatory speeches

against Muslims especially against Prophet Mohammed. By

making derogatory speeches, the detenu has created hatred and ill-

will between the Muslim and Hindu communities resulting in large

scale unrest among the people in the limits of Hyderabad and

thereby adversely affecting the maintenance of public order. That

these kind of activities are prejudicial to the maintenance of public

order apart from disturbing the public peace, tranquillity and

communal harmony in the Society. It is further stated that during

the years 2012 to 2022 the detenu was involved in as many as 18

offences of communal nature in different police stations, out of

which, only three crimes, registered against the detenu in the year

2022, were taken into consideration for passing the impugned

detention order. In crime No.261/2022 of Mangalhat PS, the

detenu was arrested and produced before the XVI Additional Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate, Hyderabad, on 23.08.2022 with a request

to remand him to judicial custody. But, the Hon'ble Metropolitan

Magistrate has not accepted their request for judicial custody and

granted bail to the detenu by imposing certain conditions. It is

further stated that in remaining two crimes, the notices under 6 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 Section 41-A Cr.P.C. were issued to the detenu. The detaining

authority after considering the entire material and having been

satisfied that the activities of the detenu were prejudicial to the

maintenance of public order, affecting the community at large, has

passed the impugned detention order. That with a view to prevent

the detenu from further indulging in such prejudicial activities and

having felt that the provisions under the ordinary criminal law

cannot prevent the detenu from further indulging in such

prejudicial activities, has in the larger public interest, passed the

impugned detention order. The detenu has submitted his

representation through email to the Home Department whereas the

competent authority is the Government, General Administration

Department, Hyderabad. The said representation of the detenu has

been forwarded to the competent authority and after calling for

remarks on the said representation from the respondent

authorities, the representation was rejected by the Advisory Board

and copy of order was communicated to the detenu. The allegation

made by the petitioner that the impugned detention order was

passed to satisfy a section of people has been specifically denied.

The authorities have strictly followed the procedure contemplated

under the Preventive Detention Act while passing the impugned

detention order. The detaining authority having been satisfied that

there is an imminent possibility of the detenu again resorting to 7 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 similar activities, which are detrimental to public order, has passed

the impugned detention order. It is further averred that the motive

for the detenu in giving provocative speeches is to trigger

communal violence by provoking people belonging to other

religions. It is further averred that only on the ground that the

Merely because the detenu was enlarged on bail, the detaining

authority is not precluded from exercising its jurisdiction in

analyzing the situation and circumstances and passing the

impugned detention order. It is further averred that when the

detenu was taken into custody, he has reiterated before the media

that the Police are making efforts for removal of his speeches from

YouTube and that these acts of the Police will not deter him from

posting further speeches on the issue. The said stand of the

detenu made the detaining authority to strongly believe that there

is an imminent risk and possibility of the detenu committing

similar offences causing breach of public peace, tranquillity and

disturbing the communal harmony in the State, which would be

detrimental to public order. The petitioner has approached this

Court without exhausting the remedies available under the Preventive Detention Act . Further, the constitutional safeguards

as envisaged under Article 22 of the Constitution of India have

been strictly followed while passing the impugned detention order.

Hence, it is prayed to dismiss the writ petition. 8 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 4) Heard the learned Counsel for the parties and perused the

impugned order. 5) Sri L. Ravi Chander, learned Senior Counsel appearing for

the petitioner, has contended that relying on three cases registered

against the detenu in the months of February, April and August,

2022, the impugned detention order is passed. Learned Senior

counsel has stated that the Detaining Authority without

application of mind, and without there being any worthy material

on record has passed the impugned detention order, which is not

only illegal, bad, contrary to the well settled principle of law laid

down by this Court as well as the Hon'ble Supreme Court but also

an arbitrary exercise of power. Learned counsel has stated that in

spite of several strictures passed by this Hon'ble High Court as well

as the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in a catena of cases challenging the

detention orders passed against various people, the authorities are

still passing the detention orders in a pedantic and mechanical

manner, thereby deliberately subverting the normal criminal

process. That the Preventive Detention Act is a draconian Act,

which has to be sparingly used for passing the detention order at

the drop of a hat even for crimes which can be dealt with under

normal Penal Code and by normal criminal Courts. The detention

order should commensurate with the nature and gravity of crimes 9 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 alleged against the detenu, but without there being any substantial

material on record, the authorities concerned in a prejudicial

manner are passing the detention orders only to see that the

detenu is confined to jail. That the Detaining Authority though

has relied only on three cases for passing the impugned detention

order, has referred to 18 other criminal cases registered against the

detenu which do not have any bearing or nexus with the impugned

order and was therefore predetermined and prejudicial while

passing the impugned detention order. 6) The learned counsel has stated that after the registration of

crime No.261/2022 on 22.08.2022, the detenu was arrested and

produced before the learned XIV Additional Chief Metropolitan

Magistrate on 23.08.2022. That the learned XIV Additional Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate having come to the conclusion that there

are no valid grounds for remanding the detenu/accused to judicial

custody has enlarged the detenu on bail on the very same day duly

imposing certain conditions. That admittedly the said conditions

imposed by the learned XIV Additional Chief Metropolitan

Magistrate while granting bail have not been violated by the detenu

and as a matter of fact the detenu has been complying with the

said conditions strictly, therefore, there was no legally tenable

ground for passing the impugned detention order. That the 10 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 impugned detention order has been passed only to see that the

detenu is confined to jail by whatsoever manner. That in spite of

numerous judgments holding the field that while passing detention

order strict compliance of law has to be followed, the same has not

been followed by the Detaining Authority in the case on hand. The

alleged utterances, if any, and attributed to the detenu are only

twisted and concocted version of the authority and far from truth.

That the original statement made by the detenu is deliberately

translated incorrectly and the detenu is wrongly attributed to the

alleged offences. That the detenu has neither referred to any

religion nor Prophet of any particular religion but has only used

the word 'Aaka", which essentially means Master. That the word

'Aaka' has different connotations and usually used by a

subordinate or a servant while addressing his superior or master

and the said word cannot be attributed only to the Prophet as

alleged. Therefore, the contention of the authority that the detenu

has made derogatory remarks against the Prophet is nothing but a

deliberate misinterpretation of the word 'Aaka' while passing the

impugned detention order. That the Detaining Authority while

passing the detention order has deliberately referred to the

previous 18 cases, registered against the detenu only to prejudice

this Court, but for the purpose of passing the detention order has

relied only on three cases viz,., Crime Nos.68 and 261 of 2022 of 11 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 Mangalhat Police Station and Crime No.71 of 2022 of

Shahinayathgunj Police Station. It is further stated by the learned

counsel that when the authorities are not relying on the 18 cases

for passing the impugned detention order, they cannot refer the

same in the impugned detention order, the oblique reference to

those 18 cases clearly reveals that the authority was acting in a

prejudicial and predetermined manner while passing the impugned

detention order. That out of the three cases referred by the

detaining authority, the two crimes viz., Crime No.68 of 2022 of

Mangalhat Police Station and Crime No.71 of 2022 of

Shahinayathgunj Police Station are old and stale cases for all

practical purposes and do not have any live nexus with the

impugned detention order. Therefore, the said two crimes ought

not have been taken into account while passing the impugned

detention order. That all the incidents/offences which are

attributed to the detenu are fully covered under the provisions of

the Indian Penal Code and can be tried by normal criminal Courts.

That passing of the impugned detention order is an arbitrary and

colourable exercise of power and there is no element of any public

disorder as alleged. 7) The learned counsel has further stated that in the impugned

order, the authorities have deliberately not referred or extracted 12 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 the conditions imposed by the learned Metropolitan Magistrate

while granting bail to the detenu in crime No.261/2022. Even the

crimes attributed to the detenu can only be described as purely a

law and order problem and can be dealt with under the normal

criminal laws and there was no necessity to invoke the provisions

of the Preventive Detention Act . That the detenu has not made any

derogatory remarks against the Prophet as alleged but the words

have been deliberately and wrongly translated only with a view to

pass the impugned detention order and keep the detenu in jail.

Even though in the impugned detention order it is stated that one

of the main reasons for passing the impugned detention order is

the apprehension expressed by the detaining authority that there

is every likelihood of there being communal disharmony which may

result in large scale riots, bandhs and rasta rokos, etc., but the

said ground is also not available to the respondents as the detenu

has not violated any of the conditions imposed by the Hon'ble

Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate. Even if there are any

Bandhs, Rasta Rokos or strikes, it is for the authorities to take

necessary action for maintaining the law & order situation, if any,

that may arise, but they cannot invoke the provisions of a

draconian law like Preventive Detention Act against the detenu and

curtail his freedom. AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 8) Insofar as crime No.68/2022 registered at Mangalhat Police

Station is concerned, learned counsel has argued that the alleged

crime happened in the month of February, 2022, and was with

regard to the elections that took place in the State of Uttar

Pradesh. That none of the authorities of Uttar Pradesh State viz.,

either the State Election Commission of Uttar Pradesh, the

Electorate of Uttar Pradesh or the Government of Uttar Pradesh

have lodged any criminal complaints against the detenu-accused

for the alleged utterances. That even after the said utterances were

made by the detenu in the month of February, 2022, no untoward

incident, riots, rasta rokos or public disorder have taken place in

the State of Telangana. Therefore, passing of the impugned

detention order relying on crime No.68 of 2022 registered in the

month of February, 2022, is with a malafide intention and

therefore liable to be ignored. That there is no live nexus of crime

No.68/2022 registered in the month of February, 2022 and

passing of the present impugned detention order in the month of

August, 2022. That in the absence of any incident of communal

right, bandhs, etc. being reported in any part of the State after the

alleged utterances were made in the month of February, 2022, the

passing of the impugned detention order relying on that particular

crime is without application of mind and is a colourable exercise of

power made with a malafide intention to confine the detenu in jail. 14 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 9) That insofar as crime No.71 of 2022 registered in the month

of April, 2022, is concerned, learned counsel has contended that

there is absolutely no reason for relying on this particular crime

also for passing the impugned detention order. That nothing

derogatory has been uttered by the detenu against any persons

who are residents of the State of Telangana. That the detenu has

specifically referred to the people of Pakistan and there is no

reason for any Indian citizens to get offended by the said

utterances made by the detenu against the citizens of other

country. That even though the crime has been registered on

10.04.2022, no incident of riots, bandhs or communal disharmony

have taken place in the State of Telangana after the said

utterances. That there are no incidents of any public disorder

attributable after the detenu had sung the song during Srirama

Navami procession. Therefore, the reliance placed by the authority

on this crime No.71 of 202 registered in April, 2022, is also without

application of mind and contrary to the well established principles

of law. These two crimes have to be considered as stale and old

having no live nexus with the passing of the impugned detention

order in August, 2022, and ought to have been ignored by the

detaining authority while passing the impugned detention order. 15 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 10) Further, it is argued that even though the two crimes alleged

to have been committed by the detenu way back in the months of

February and April, 2022 are taken as grounds for passing the

impugned detention order, there is nothing on record to show as at

what stage the investigation of the said two crimes is, whether any

progress has been made by the Police after registration of the said

two crimes or any charge sheet has been filed against the detenu.

That the authority concerned has passed the impugned detention

order with predetermined mind only to cater to the needs of its

political bosses. That in the absence of any untoward incidents

having reported in any part of the State after the two crimes were

registered in the months of February, and April, 2022, reliance on

these two crimes is totally misplaced and unwarranted. That the

earlier two cases have to be considered as old and stale cases

having no live nexus as no untoward incidents have occurred in

any part of the State after the registration of the said two crimes.

Moreover, no statistics have been given by the authorities

concerned after the said two crimes were registered against the

detenu in the months of February and April, 2022, to show that

any untoward incidents have taken place, which warrants the

authorities to pass the impugned detention order. Moreover, the

notice under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. was served on the detenu on

25.08.2022 at 11.00 a.m. in these two cases. AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 11) Once these two crimes are ignored the only crime available

for the Detaining Authority is crime No.261/2022 registered in the

month of August, 2022, and the said crime alone cannot be a

ground for passing the impugned detention order, more

particularly, when the detenu has not uttered any derogatory

remarks against any Religious Head or any particular Religion, as

alleged. Except one or two stray incidents, which occurred purely

because of the wrong interpretation made by some vested interest

persons, no communal riots or breakdown of public order has

taken place which entails the authorities to pass the present

impugned detention order. Learned counsel has stated that after

crime No.261/2022 was registered against the detenu, the detenu

was produced before the learned XIV Additional Chief Metropolitan

Magistrate, Hyderabad, with a request to remand the detenu to

judicial custody, but the request of the respondents was rejected

by the learned Metropolitan Magistrate and the detenu was granted

bail on certain conditions. That the detenu was enlarged on bail,

he has not violated any of the bail conditions imposed by the

learned Metropolitan Magistrate, but immediately after the release

of the detenu, the authorities have passed the impugned detention

order only to circumvent the bail granted by the learned

Metropolitan Magistrate. That the detaining authority was highly

prejudicial and predetermined while passing the impugned 17 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 detention order and therefore the same is liable to be set side.

That the ordinary Penal laws are more than sufficient to deal with

the crimes attributable to the detenu, the impugned detention

order is passed on legally untenable, non-existing grounds and

nothing but an abuse of the powers by the detaining authority.

That there is no subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority

while passing the impugned detention order and therefore the

same is liable to be set aside. 12) Learned counsel has also stated that the documents, more

particularly the documents at page Nos.132 to 170, annexed to the

Writ Petition, which have been furnished to the detenu in jail, are

not at all legible or readable. That most of the words and

sentences of the documents supplied are not readable, which

ineffect does not allow the detenu to give a detailed and effective

representation. The Courts have time and again held that

furnishing illegible copies to the detenu can also be a ground for

setting aside the detention order. That most of the translated

pages are wrongly translated. That some of the words and

sentences which are there in the original order have been omitted

or wrongly translated in the translated copy giving a wholly new

meaning to the translated version. That translated copy of the

confirmation order vide G.O.Rt.No.1977 General Administration 18 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 (Spl. (Law & Order) Department, dated 19.10.2022, in the language

known to the detenu has not been furnished to the petitioner and

on this sole ground alone the impugned detention order is liable to

be set aside. 13) Learned counsel has stated that some of the documents

enclosed to the detention order do not contain the signature of the

detenu whereas the documents filed by the authorities along with

the counter show that the detenu has signed on them on

29.08.2022. That, as a matter of fact, the detenu was served only

with the copy of the detention order on 25.08.2022 without

supplying the documents relied on by them and on this ground

also, the impugned detention order is liable to be set aside. That

respondent No.2 while passing the impugned detention order has

deliberately made unwarranted comments against the detenu

stating that the detenu is a gang leader and that he is causing

disharmony and communal hatred in the Society, but as a matter

of fact, there are absolutely no statistics submitted by the

authorities concerned to substantiate this claim. Moreover, there

is no whisper as to what happened to the other members of the

gang or the number of crimes alleged to have been committed by

the so-called gang. AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 14) That in the earlier two crimes i.e. Crime No.68 of 2022 of

Mangalhat Police Station and Crime No.71 of 2022 of

Shahinayathgunj Police Station, are registered against the detenu

in the month of February and April, 2022 respectively, the notices

under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. have been served on the petitioner only

on 25.08.2022 at 11.00 a.m. and the impugned detention order

was passed on 25.08.2022 at 2.30 pm, which clearly points to the

fact that the authority was acting in a prejudicial and

predetermined manner. That the notices under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. are also defective and not in consonance with the

provisions of Section 41-A Cr.P.C. In the absence of any material

to show that due to the alleged utterances made by the detenu

there was a complete breakdown of Law & Order that resulted in

public disorder, the detention order cannot be passed on the mere

misapprehensions expressed by the detaining authority. That

passing of the impugned detention order is nothing but colourable

exercise of power and is a selective prosecution indulged by the

authorities to appease its political bosses. That the authority

concerned has not followed the procedure prescribed under the Preventive Detention Act in true letter and spirit and therefore, the

impugned detention order is liable to be set aside on this ground

alone. The learned counsel has relied on the following judgments

in support of his contentions: That the procedure contemplated under the Preventive Detention

Act was scrupulously followed by the detaining authority while

passing the impugned detention order. Learned Advocate General

has stated that the contention of the detenu that the utterances

were not made against the Religious Head of a particular

community, is a false statement. The particular word 'Aaka' used

by the detenu refers to the Prophet and clearly demonstrates that

the detenu has targeted a particular religious community and has

used abusive language and derogatory statements against their

Prophet, which is nothing but hate speeches. The speeches made

by the detenu are nothing but hate speeches, which have been

deprecated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as well as this Hon'ble

Court in a catena of cases. Due to the utterances made by the

detenu, there was a large scale disturbance to the public peace,

which not only resulted in riots, dharnas and protests in different

parts of the State, but also resulted in public disorder. Due to the

utterances made by the detenu, the communal harmony in the

State got adversely effected and resulted in public disorder. The

contention of the detenu that the legible copies were not provided 22 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 to him is totally a false statement and is contrary to the record.

Learned Advocate General has placed on record the original record

pertaining to the copies annexed to the writ petition at page

Nos.132 to 170 to show that the said copies are legible and

readable copies. Except for two or three pages, all the pages

furnished to the detenu are in a readable and legible condition.

Merely because the petitioner has filed documents, which are

illegible, along with the Writ Petition, the same does not mean that

the authorities have also provided illegible copies to the detenu.

Further, it is contended that there is no dispute with regard to the

video circulated from the account being managed by the detenu on

YouTube channel wherein the detenu has made derogatory

remarks against a particular religious community and their

Prophet. That immediately after this video was uploaded by the

detenu, spontaneous protests broke out in different parts of the

State leading to public disorder, and there was a clamour for arrest

of the detenu. That the transcripts of the video and other speeches

made by the detenu filed along with the counter clearly

demonstrate that the detenu has made derogatory remarks against

a particular community and their Prophet, which is nothing but

Hate Speech. Merely because the detenu asserts that the said

utterances do not refer to the Prophet or any Religion, the said

statement cannot be taken on its face value. That this Hon'ble 23 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 Court has to watch the video and also read the transcripts, which

have been provided along with the counter, to understand the true

meaning and real purport of the utterances made by the detenu

and the same will reveal that the detenu has made derogatory

remarks against a particular religion and their Prophet. That the

authority concerned was conscious of the fact that the detenu has

been repeatedly making such kind of derogatory speeches and

targeting a particular Religion/community only with a view to

create public disturbance and public disorder in the State. Even

though the detenu is a Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA)

elected from Goshamahal Constituency, he has a chequered

criminal history and is involved in more than 100 criminal cases

including two murder cases, which are at various stages of

investigation. Learned Advocate General has further stated that

merely because the detenu is acquitted in some of the criminal

cases, the same does not give the detenu a license to perpetuate

the hate crimes by making derogatory and hate speeches against a

particular community and their Prophet. The authority while

passing the impugned order of detention has taken into

consideration the three cases viz., Crime Nos.68 and 261 of 2022

of Mangalhat Police Station and Crime No.71 of 2022 of

Shahinayathgunj Police Station. AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 16) Learned Advocate General has stated that crime No.261 of

2022 was registered on 22.08.2022 at Mangalhat Police Station

wherein the detenu was alleged to have committed the offences

punishable under Sections 153(A)(a)(b) , 295-A , 504 , 505(2) and 506 IPC. Though the detenu was arrested on 23.08.2022 in

connection with said crime and produced before the learned

Metropolitan Magistrate for remanding him to judicial custody, the

learned Metropolitan Magistrate on purely technical grounds has

not remanded the detenu to judicial custody and released him on

bail. Challenging the granting of bail to the detenu in crime

No.261 of 2022, the State has preferred Crl.R.C. No.547 of 2022

before this Hon'ble Court and the same is pending consideration.

Learned Advocate General has further stated that merely because

crimes are registered against the detenu there is no prohibition

under the law for passing the detention order under the Preventive

Detention Act against the detenu. The detaining authority is well

within its authority for passing the detention order for the hate

speeches made by the detenu targeting a particular religious

community and their Prophet, which had the effect of disturbing

the public peace, communal harmony and create public disorder.

That the authority is well within its rights in passing the detention

order and the same is permissible under the law. 25 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 17) That insofar as crime No.68 of 2022 is concerned, the same

was registered on 19.02.2022 for the offences punishable under

Sections 505 (2), 171-C r/w.171-F IPC and Sections 123 , 125 of

Representation of People Act,1951. Learned Advocate General has

drawn the attention of the Court to the order dated 19.02.2022

passed by the Election Commissioner of India wherein the detenu

was issued a show cause notice for the utterances made and he

was directed to submit his explanation to the said show cause

notice, but the detenu did not bother to file any explanation.

Hence, the Election Commissioner was constrained to pass an

adverse order against the detenu and the speeches made by the

detenu were not only deprecated but he was censured and

prohibited from indulging in such kind of activities. Further, the

State Election Commissioner was also directed to lodge a criminal

complaint against the detenu, pursuant to which, the State

Election Commissioner has lodged a criminal complaint before the

concerned Police Station and crime No.68 of 2022 was registered

against the detenu. The detenu cannot claim that he is not aware

of registration of the said FIR as he had received the copies of show

cause notice as well as the order passed by the Election

Commission of India. The learned Advocate General has also

drawn the attention of the Court to the various news paper

clippings to buttress his contention that crime No.68 of 2022 was 26 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 registered against the detenu and well reported. Learned Advocate

General has further stated that the order dated 15.02.2022 of the

Election Commissioner speaks for itself and has also drawn the

attention of the order passed, wherein the Election Commissioner

has referred to the abusive language used by the detenu, but also

censured the detenu and issued prohibitory orders. 18) That insofar as crime No.71 of 2022 is concerned, during the

Srirama Navami Shobha Yatra, the detenu has sung a song using

derogatory remarks against a particular Religion and its followers

and a crime was registered on 12.04.2022 for the offences

punishable under Sections 153-A , 295-A , 504 , 505 (2) of IPC. The

learned Advocate General has stated that the detenu has been

indulging in these kind of repetitive offences, which clearly

indicates that he is a habitual offender. That in spite of number of

criminal cases being registered against him, the detenu has not

mended his way and indulging in delivering hate speeches and

thereby disturbing the public order. That the derogatory remarks

and abusive language used by the detenu targeting a particular

religion and their Prophet have the propensity to disturb the public

peace and communal harmony leading to public disorder, that

these hate speeches made by the detenu have to be not only

condemned but also deprecated by one and all. AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 19) Learned Advocate General has stated that the judgments

relied by the learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner

cannot be taken as a blanket order for challenging the impugned

detention order passed by the detaining authority, that each and

every case has to be dealt with independently on its own set of

facts. That having regard to the fact that the detenu is a repeat

offender, who has time and again been making derogatory remarks

and hate speeches against a particular community and its Prophet,

inspite of number of criminal cases registered against him, the

detaining authority having been satisfied that unless and until the

detenu is restrained from making such derogatory remarks, he will

continue to do so and that there is every likelihood of disturbing

the public peace, communal harmony and cause public disorder

has passed the impugned detention order. Learned Advocate

General has further stated that the detenu is a rowdy sheeter since

last more than two decades and is indulging in repeated crimes

which are leading to public disorder. Learned Advocate General

has drawn the attention of the Court to the various provisions of

the Preventive Detention Act , more particularly Sections 2 (a) , 2 (g) , 3 , 10 , 12 and 13 thereof, to contend that the impugned order is

passed strictly in compliance with the provisions of the Preventive

Detention Act . Learned Advocate General has stated that mere

reference to past history of the detenu does not mean that the 28 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 same have been relied by the detaining authority while passing the

impugned detention order. Learned Advocate General has stated

that this Court is only concerned with the issue as to whether the

procedure contemplated under the Preventive Detention Act has

been strictly followed or not while passing the impugned order of

detention?. That the subjective satisfaction of the detaining

authority cannot be said to be faulty merely because there are

some minute discrepancies, more particularly having regard to the

fact that the detenu has not denied that he has posted the

offensive video on YouTube channel. If the contents of the said

video posted by the detenu are examined by this Court it will reveal

the derogatory comments and hate speeches made by the detenu

and the said hate speeches cannot be brushed aside on the mere

denial made by the detenu. 20) Learned Advocate General has further stated that the

political party, to which the detenu belongs to, has also suspended

him from the party for making these derogatory and offensive

remarks against a particular religion and their Prophet, which only

gives credence to the impugned detention order. That immediately

after the detenu has made these derogatory remarks on

22.08.2022, number of riots have taken place in the city and four

crimes were registered in different parts of the City under various 29 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 provisions of the Indian Penal Code . The contention of detenu that

the word 'Aaka' does not refer to Prophet is absolutely false and

made to mislead this Hon'ble Court. Learned counsel has stated

that the officials concerned have got the clarification from Darul

Ifta, Darul Uloom, Deoband, Uttar Pradesh, which is an Islamic

Seminary in India, which clearly indicates that the word 'Aaka'

refers to the Prophet. That even the Advisory Board has found that

the impugned detention order was passed inconsonance with the

provisions of the Preventive Detention Act and the procedure

prescribed thereunder was scrupulously followed by the detaining

authority while passing the impugned detention order. That the

statements made by the detenu are referable only to a particular

religious community and targeting their Prophet. 21) Learned Advocate General has argued that the contention of

the learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner that copies

of the material relied by the authorities concerned and furnished to

the detenu are illegible, is without any basis. Learned Advocate

General has stated that all the copies were translated into Hindi

and furnished to the detenu. The detenu has also acknowledged

the same, but at no point of time, he has raised any objection

stating that the material given to him is unreadable or that illegible

copies were furnished. Therefore, the detenu is estopped from 30 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 raising the said ground, at this point of time. The detenu having

gone through the documents supplied to him, has also given a

representation to the Government, which was considered and

rejected by the Advisory Board. Learned Advocate General has

stated that the order of detention was served on the detenu at the

house of the detenu on 25.08.2022 whereas the translated copies

in Hindi were furnished while he was in custody at 11.40 a.m. on

29.08.2022. That mere non-mentioning of the page numbers in

the acknowledgement receipt while submitting the translated

copies is a minor lapse and cannot be a ground for declaring the

detention order as invalid. That even in the acknowledgement

given by the detenu while receiving the copies, the detenu has not

mentioned that the documents furnished to him are illegible or not

readable. That the detenu having received all the documents,

without any protest, from the Jailor, now, cannot contend

otherwise. 22) Learned Advocate General has submitted that the detaining

authority has also relied on the news paper clippings, filed at page

Nos.917 to 960 of the counter affidavit, while passing the

impugned detention order and the above material clearly establish

that the detenu has been making derogatory remarks and the

speeches delivered by him have the propensity to disturb the 31 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 communal harmony and breach the public peace. Further, the

learned Advocate General has stated that merely because no

untoward incidents have taken place after the utterances made by

the detenu in the months of February and April, 2022, it cannot be

said that the speeches delivered by the detenu do not have the

tendency to disturb the public order. Learned Advocate General

has further stated that it is not number of cases that are registered

after the incident that matters, but preventing such incidents from

taking place in future that really matters and one small incident is

sufficient to justify the passing of the detention order under the Preventive Detention Act . That merely because the learned

Metropolitan Magistrate has released the detenu on bail, it cannot

be construed that the detention order cannot be passed against the

detenu under the provisions of the Preventive Detention Act . That

there is no legal embargo for passing the impugned detention

order, merely because the Metropolitan Magistrate has not

remanded the detenu to judicial custody and the detenu was

granted bail. The learned Advocate General has also stated that no

prejudice is caused to the detenu merely because the translated

copy of the confirmation order i.e. G.O.Rt.No.1977 General

Administration (Spl. {(Law & Order)} Department, dated 19.10.2022

was not furnished to him in Hindi language. AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 23) The learned Advocate General has also stated that the two

incidents which occurred in the months of February and April,

2022, cannot be said to be old and stale as contended by the

learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner, merely on the

ground that no untoward incidents have taken place. Once an FIR

is registered against the detenu, the law will take its own course

and it cannot be said that said crimes are stale in nature. That

any crimes registered against the detenu within the last preceding

year can be taken into consideration for passing the impugned

detention order. That the detenu being the public representative

has to be more responsible, instead, he has been making these

kind of derogatory speeches, which amounts to hate speeches. The

videos and speeches made by the detenu clearly demonstrate that

the speeches made by the detenu have the tendency to disturb the

public order. The detenu has been continuously making hate

speeches unabatedly inspite of numerous criminal cases being

registered against him, which has to be condemned in one voice

and prayed this Court to dismiss the present Writ Petition.

Learned Advocate General has relied on the following judgments in

support of his submissions: that rises for determination in this Writ Petition is: POINT: (a) Crime No.68/2022 of Mangalhat PS

 It is alleged that in the month of February, 2022, the detenu

has recorded a video in Hyderabad and posted the same in social

media and network applications wherein he has threatened the

voters belonging to the State of Uttar Pradesh to cast their votes in

favour of Bharatiya Janata Party during the 2022-General

Elections to the Legislative Assembly of Uttar Pradesh, due to

which incident, the Muslims of that State were alarmed with

threats made by the detenu and were fearful of the damage to their

safety and properties, thereby adversely affected the public order in

the form of communal violence. (b) Crime No.261/2022 of Mangalhat PS

 It is alleged that on 22.08.2022, the detenu has posted an

offensive video with duration of 10 minutes and 27 seconds in

YouTube commenting against Prophet Mohammed and his life

style. The detenu has also commented that the Muslim community

people are engaged in killing of cows. It is alleged that the

provocative speech of the detenu against Prophet Mohammed have

hurt the religious sentiments of the Muslim Community promoting

enmity between the two different religions, which would cause

breach of peace and disturb the public order. AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 (c) Crime No.71/2022 of Shahinayathgunj PS

 It is alleged that the detenu on 10.04.2022 during Sri Rama

Navami Shobha Yatra (procession) at Begum Bazar Chatri, Begum

Bazar, Hyderabad, had delivered a provocative speech/song in

Hindi language against Muslim community, which created hatred

between the communities of Hindus and Muslims. Based on the

complaint of the Sub-Inspector of Police, Shahinayathgunj Police

Station, who was on bandhobust duty, the crime was registered

against the detenu. 27) The detaining authority while taking into account the above

three crimes has come to the conclusion that the detention order

need to be passed against the detenu herein. The relevant portion

of the impugned detention order is extracted hereunder for better

understanding of the matter: with a title "Faruqui K Aaka Ka Itihass Suniye" on YouTube with 36 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 URL https://youtu.be/N2sBNklmsLk. You have commented
blasphemously against Prophet Mohammed and his life style
with an intention to hurt the religious sentiments of the
Muslim community and promoting enmity between two
different communities which is likely to cause breach of
peace and disturb the public order. When the video went
viral, protests have erupted in different parts of Hyderabad
City and Telangana State. As a result, several thousands of
Muslims came out of their houses and organized protest
rallies, rasta rokos, dharnas, burning of your effigies in
public places demanding your immediate arrest. Sensing
danger to their life and properties from the protestors, people
have closed their shops and business establishments. You
have created hatred and ill-will between the Muslim and
Hindu communities resulting in large scale unrest among the
people in the limits of Hyderabad Police Commissionerate
and Telangana State, thereby adversely affecting the
maintenance of public order and such activities can be said
to be prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. Earlier
also, you have made derogatory speeches against the Muslim
community leading to communal tensions in Hyderabad City
and other parts of Telangana. You were arrested on
23.8.2022 in Cr.No.261/2022 of Mangalhat Police Station
and you were produced before the Hon'ble XVI Addl. Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate, Hyderabad, with a remand report
seeking judicial remand. The Hon'ble Magistrate did not
accept the remand application and ordered to release you on
personal with certain conditions. As seen from your past criminal history and background, I
believe that if such a notorious rowdy sheeter and a
communal offender is set free, your activities would result in
communal disturbances, breach of peace and tranquillity in
the society. More particularly, when you were taken into
custody, you once again reiterated before the media that the
police are making efforts for the removal of your speech from
the YouTube, and that will not deter you from posting your 37 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 further speeches on the issue and that shortly you will be
posting further videos of your speeches on YouTube on this
issue. I strongly believe that there is an imminent risk and
possibility of your committing similar offences and communal
nuisance which would be detrimental to public order. I am
also satisfied that the cases registered against you under the
ordinary law, are not sufficient to prevent your unlawful and
prejudicial activities. Therefore you should be prevented from
doing so by an appropriate order of detention. As per clause (g) of Section of the Telangana Prevention of
Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers, Dacoits, Drug-Offenders,
Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders, Land Grabbers,
Spurious Seed Offenders, Insecticide Offenders, Fertiliser
Offenders, Food Adulteration Offenders, Fake Document
Offenders, Scheduled Commodities Offenders, Forest
Offenders, Gaming Offenders, Sexual Offenders, Explosive
Substances Offenders, Arms Offenders, Cyber Crime
Offenders and White Collar or Financial Offenders Act, 1986
(Act NO.1 of 1986), "Goonda" means 'a person, who either by
himself or as a member of or leader of gang, habitually
commits, or attempts to commit or abets the commission of
offences punishable under chapter XVI or Chapter XVII or
Chapter XXII of the Indian Penal Code . Thus, you have indulged in the acts of goondaism and as a
leader of criminal gang, you have been habitually delivering
provocative speeches against Muslims and on 22.8.2022
especially against the Prophet Mohammed with an intention
to provoke breach of peace and tranquillity in the limits of
Hyderabad City Police Commissionerate and Telangana State
and thus you have caused panic, terror and fear in the minds
of the general public, thereby disturbing the public order and
tranquillity in the area. Your anti-social and unlawful
activities have been causing a feeling of insecurity in the
minds of the public on a regular basis. The said activities are
prejudicial to the maintenance of public order and your acts 38 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 have been adversely affecting the maintenance of public order
 and peace in the area. It is imperative to prevent you from acting in any
 manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order
 and hence I feel that recourse to normal law may not be
 an effective deterrent in preventing you from indulging
 in such further activities prejudicial to the maintenance
 of public order in the area unless you are detained by
 invoking the provisions under the Act No.1 of 1986.
 Hence, after careful consideration of all the facts and
 circumstances mentioned above and the material placed
 before me, I am satisfied that the provisions of the
 "Telangana Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers,
 Dacoits, Drug-Offenders, Goondas, Immoral Traffic
 Offenders, Land Grabbers, Spurious Seed Offenders,
 Insecticide Offenders, Fertiliser Offenders, Food Adulteration
 Offenders, Fake Document Offenders, Scheduled
 Commodities Offenders, Forest Offenders, Gaming Offenders,
 Sexual Offenders, Explosive Substances Offenders, Arms
 Offenders, Cyber Crime Offenders and White Collar or
 Financial Offenders Act, 1986 (Act No.1 of 1986), should be
 invoked and you should be detained under Sub-Section (2) of Section 3 of Act No.1 of 1986 r/w.G.O.Rt.No.1205. General
 Administration (Spel. Law & Order) Department, dated
 14.6.2022, with a view to prevent you from acting in any
 manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order." (Emphasis added) 28) For better adjudication of the matter, the relevant provisions

of the Preventive Detention Act are hereby extracted. 2. Definitions: In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, (a) "Acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order" 3. Power to make orders detaining certain person:- (1) The
Government may, if satisfied with respect to any boot-legger, dacoit, drug
offender, goonda, immoral traffic offender [Land-Grabber, Spurious Seed
Offender, Insecticide Offender, Fertilizer Offender, Food Adulteration
Offender, Fake Document Offender, Scheduled Commodities Offender,
Forest Offender, Gaming Offender, Sexual Offender, Explosive Substances
Offender, Arms Offender, Cyber Crime Offender and White Collar or
Financial Offender] that with a view to preventing him from acting in any
manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order, it is necessary so to
do, make an order directing that such person be detained. (2) If, having regard to the circumstances prevailing or likely to
prevail in any area within the local limits of the jurisdiction of a District
Magistrate or a Commissioner of Police, the Government are satisfied that
it is necessary so to do, they may, by order in writing, direct that during
such period as may be specified in the order, such District Magistrate or 40 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 Commissioner of Police may also, if satisfied as provided in sub-section
(1), exercise the powers conferred by the said sub-section: 8. Grounds of order of detention to be disclosed to persons
affected by the order:- (1) When a person is detained in pursuance of a
detention order, the authority making the order shall, as soon as may be,
but, not later than five days from the date of detention, communicate to
him the grounds on which the order has been made and shall afford him
the earliest opportunity of making a representation against the order to
the Government. (2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall require the authority to disclose
facts which it considers to be against the public interest to disclose. 10. Reference to Advisory Board:- In every case where a detention
order has been made under this Act, the Government shall within three
weeks from the date of detention of a person under the order, place before
the Advisory Board constituted by them under Section 9 , the grounds on 41 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 which the order has been made and the representation, if any, made by
the person affected by the order, and in the case where the order has been
made by an officer, also the report by such officer under sub-section (3) of Section 3 . 12. Action upon report of Advisory Board:- (1) In any case where
the Advisory Board has reported that there is, in its opinion, sufficient
cause for the detention of a person, the Government may confirm the
detention order and continue the detention of the person concerned for
such period, not exceeding the maximum period specified in Section 13 as
they think fit. (2) In any case where the Advisory Board has reported that there
is, in its opinion, no sufficient cause for the detention of the person
concerned, the Government shall revoke the detention order and cause the
person to be released forthwith. 13. Maximum period of detention:- The maximum period for
which any person may be detained, in pursuance of any detention order
made under this Act which has been confirmed under Section 12 shall, be
twelve months from the date of detention. 29) One of the objects and reasons for enactment of the Preventive Detention Act is to ensure that the maintenance of

public order in the State of Telangana and not being adversely

affected by the activities of specially identified thirteen classes of

known anti-social elements viz., Spurious Seed Offenders,

Insecticide Offenders, Fertiliser Offenders, Food Adulteration

Offenders, Fake Document Offenders, Scheduled Commodities 42 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 Offenders, Forest Offenders, Gaming Offenders, Sexual Offenders,

Explosive Substances Offenders, Arms Offenders, Cyber Crime

Offenders and White Collar or Financial Offenders, without

resorting to the National Security Act, 1980 , the Preventive

Detention Act, 1986 , has been enacted to provide for preventive

detention of the persons indulging in these kind of dangerous

activities. 30) Undoubtedly, under the provisions of the Preventive

Detention Act , the detaining authority has the power and authority

to pass a detention order against a person who is involved in

committing the various crimes specified in Sections 2 (b) , (c), (f), (g), (i), (j), (l), (m), (n), (o), (p), (q), (r), (s), (the), (u), (v), (w) and (x) of the Preventive Detention Act . The detaining authority must be

satisfied that there are valid grounds for passing a detention order

and unless and until such a detention order is not passed against

the said person, there is every likelyhood of the said person

committing more offences of similar nature which are likely to

effect the maintenance of public order. The said detention order

should be in furtherance of maintaining the public order and to the

subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority. The detaining

authority before passing the order of detention should be satisfied

that the ordinary law dealing with criminal justice system is not 43 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 sufficient to reign the detenu and that there is every likelihood of

the breach of law by the detenu. It is settled law that the

subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority cannot be

subjected to an objective test by the Courts and the Courts cannot

sit in appeal over the said order of detention. However, if the Court

finds that the order of detention was not based on any valid or

reasonable ground, then the said order is liable to be set aside.

The detaining authority must be satisfied that the alleged crime

committed by the accused falls squarely within the ambit of "public

order" and cannot be dealt with under normal criminal laws or can

be dealt as "law and order" problem. Apprehension of the

detaining authority, however strong it may be, cannot be a valid

ground for passing the detention order. The degree of difference

between the concept of "public order" and "law and order" is razor-

thin and may overlap in some instances and the Courts should be

very careful and cautious while testing the validity of the detention

order. 31) Any detention order is sustainable only when the criminal

activities of the individual largely/adversely affect the public at

large or disturb the public order. Whether the alleged criminal

activities or cases referred to above have the propensity to disturb

the public order or not or can be dealt with under the normal Penal 44 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 laws of the State are some of the primary considerations that have

to be taken into consideration by the Courts. Admittedly, in this

particular case, the offences alleged to have been committed by the

detenu are falling under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the crimes are registered accordingly. 32) The Hon'ble Supreme Court as well as this Court, time and

again, have held that when the individual cases can be dealt with

under the normal criminal justice system, there is no need for the

detaining authority to invoke the draconian preventive detention

laws. That the detaining authority should be vary of invoking the

immense power under the Act, if the normal penal laws are

sufficient to deal with the said crime. 33) The Hon'ble Supreme Court as well as this Court, in a catena

of cases, have distinguished the 'law & order' and 'public order'. (a) In Madhu Limaye vs. Sub-Divisional Magistrate16 the

Hon'ble Supreme Court has held, at paras 19 and 20, as under: in the context of preventive detention, we confined the expression in
 the relevant Act to what was included in the second circle and left out
 that which was in the largest circle. But that consideration need not
 always apply because small local disturbances of the even tempo of
 life, may in a sense be said to effect "public order" in a different sense,
 namely, in the sense of a state of law abidingness vis-à-vis the safety
 of others. In our judgment the expression "in the interest of public
 order" in the Constitution is capable of taking within itself not only
 those acts which disturb the security of the State or act within ordre
 publique as described but also certain acts which disturb public
 tranquility or are breaches of the peace. It is not necessary to give the
 expression a narrow meaning because, as has been observed, the
 expression "in the interest of public order" is very wide. Whatever
 may be said of "maintenance of public order" in the context of special
 laws entailing detention of persons without a trial on the pure
 subjective determination of the Executive cannot be said in other
 circumstances. In the former case this Court confined the meaning to
 graver episodes not involving cases of law and order which are not
 disturbances of public tranquility but of ordre publique." (b) In Union of India vs. Yumnam Anand M17 the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has held, at para 8, as under: (c) In Munagala Yadamma v. State of A.P.18 the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has held, at paras 7 and 9, as under: (d) In Vasnthu Sumalatha vs. State of Andhra Pradesh19 a

Division Bench of this Court has held as under: Of Police v. C. Anita MANU/SC/0661/2004 : (2004) 7 SCC 647; Union
 of India v. Amrit Lal Manchanda MANU/SC/0133/2004 : (2004) 3
 SCC 75). 19 MANU/AP/0602/2015 48 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 64. "Public order" is synonymous with public safety and tranquility.
 Public order, if disturbed, must lead to public disorder. Every breach
 of the peace does not lead to public disorder. Disorder is no doubt
 prevented by the maintenance of law and order also, but disorder is a
 broad spectrum, which includes at one end small disturbances and at
 the other the most serious and cataclysmic happenings (Ram
 Manohar Lohia MANU/SC/0054/1965 : AIR 1966 SC 740 ; C. Anita
 MANU/SC/0661/2004 : (2004) 7 SCC 467). 70. The detaining authority cannot wish away the fact that, in the
 grounds of detention, he has recorded his satisfaction of the need to
 detain the detenus as he apprehended their activities to be injurious
 to "public peace" and "law and order" neither of which are grounds for
 detaining a citizen, in preventive custody, under A.P. Act 1 of 1986.
 Even if the order and the grounds for detention are read together, the
 fact that the detaining authority has recorded his satisfaction in the
 Orders of detention on grounds of "public order", and in the grounds
 of detention, as affecting "public peace" and "law and order", reflect
 his confused state of mind, and lack of clarity of thought in satisfying
 himself whether the detention should be on grounds of "public order" (e) In Pushkar Mukherjee (referred supra), the Hon'ble

Supreme Court, at paras 13 and 15, has held as under: 15. The difference between the concepts of a "public order" (Emphasis added) (f) In Rekha vs State of Tamilnadu20 , the Hon'ble Supreme

Court, at paras 23 and 30, has held as under: Hence, in our opinion, for this reason also the detention
 order in question was illegal. (Emphasis added) (g) In Commr. of Police v. C. Anita,21 , the Hon'ble Supreme

Court, at paras 12 and 13, has held as under: State of Karnataka [(2000) 6 SCC 168 : 2000 SCC (Cri)
 1037] and State of Maharashtra v. Mohd. Yakub [(1980) 3
 SCC 57 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 513 : (1980) 2 SCR 1158] .) (h) The Hon'ble Supreme Court in V.Shantha v. State of

Telangana and Others22 while considering the various provisions

of the Act has held as under: affecting public order, because of inadequate yield from the chilli seed

22 (2017) 4 SCC 577 54 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 sold by him and prevent him from moving for bail even is a gross abuse
 of the statutory power of preventive detention. The grounds of
 detention are ex facie extraneous to the Act." The Hon'ble Supreme Court has further held that preventive

detention involves detaining of a person without trial in order to

prevent him/her from further committing certain types of offences.

But such detention cannot be made a substitute for the ordinary

law, and absolve the investigating authorities of their normal

functions of investigating crimes which the detenu may have

committed. After all, preventive detention in most cases is for a

year only, and cannot be used as an instrument to keep a person

in perpetual custody without trial. (i) In the case of Ram Manohar Lohia (referred supra), the

Hon'ble Supreme Court has, in fact, deprecated the invoking of the

preventive law in order to tackle a law and order problem. The

Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed as under: AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 Public order if disturbed, must lead to public disorder. Every breach
 of the peace does not lead to public disorder. When two drunkards
 quarrel and fight there is disorder but not public disorder. They can
 be dealt with under the powers to maintain law and order but
 cannot be detained on the ground that they were disturbing public
 order. Suppose that the two fighters were of rival communities and
 one of them tried to raise communal passions. The problem is still
 one of law and order but it raises the apprehension of public
 disorder. Other examples can be imagined. The contravention of law
 always affects order but before it can be said to affect public order, it
 must affect the community or the public at large. A mere disturbance
 of law and order leading to disorder is thus not necessarily sufficient
 for action under the Defence of India Act but disturbances which
 subvert the public order are. A District Magistrate is entitled to take
 action under Rule 30(1)(b) to prevent subversion of public order but
 not in aid of maintenance of law and order under ordinary
 circumstances." (j) In the case of Kanu Biswas v. State of West Bengal23 , the

Hon'ble Supreme Court has opined as under: (1972) 3 SCC 831 56 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 34) Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court while dealing with the

provisions of the Preventive Detention Act has held that the

personal liberty of a person is a precious right, which cannot be

tampered with by invoking the draconian powers under the Preventive Detention Act . (a) In State of Maharashtra and Ors. v. Bhaurao Punjabrao

Gawande24 the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as follows: 23....personal liberty is a precious right. So did the Founding
 Fathers believe because, while their first object was to give unto the people
 a Constitution whereby a government was established, their second object,
 equally important, was to protect the people against the government. That
 is why, while conferring extensive powers on the government like the
 power to declare an emergency, the power to suspend the enforcement of
 fundamental rights or the power to issue ordinances, they assured to the
 people a Bill of Rights by Part III of the Constitution, protecting against
 executive and legislative despotism those human rights which they
 regarded as fundamental. The imperative necessity to protect these rights
 is a lesson taught by all history and all human experience. Our
 Constitution-makers had lived through bitter years and seen an alien
 Government trample upon human rights which the country had fought
 hard to preserve. They believed like Jefferson that "an elective despotism
 was not the Government we fought for". And, therefore, while arming the
 Government with large powers to prevent anarchy from within and
 conquest from without, they took care to ensure that those powers were
 not abused to mutilate the liberties of the people.

24 (2008) 3 SCC 613 57 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 (b) In the Nine-Judge Constitution Bench decision in I.R. Coelho v. State of T.N.25 the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

observed as follows: (c) In Frances Coralie Maullin vs. W.C. Khambra26 a Division

Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held, at para 5, as under: (d) In Yumman Ongbi Lembi Leima (referred supra), the

Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that the personal liberty of an

individual is the most precious and prized right guaranteed under

25 (2007) 2 SCC 1
26 (1970) 3 SCC 746 58 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 the Constitution in Part III thereof. The State has been granted the

power to curb such rights under criminal laws, as also under the

laws of preventive detention, which, therefore, are required to be

exercised with due caution as well as upon a proper appreciation of

the facts as to whether such acts are in any way prejudicial to the

interest and the security of the State and its citizens, or seek to

disturb public law and order, warranting the issuance of such an

order. (e) In Vasnthu Sumalatha (referred supra), the Division

Bench of this Court has held, at para 3, as under: 35) Admittedly, in the present case, out of three crimes

registered against the detenu and relied by the detaining authority,

two crimes viz., Crime No.68 of 2022 of Mangalhat Police Station

and Crime No.71 of 2022 of Shahinayathgunj Police Station,

pertain to the months of February and April, 2022, wherein the

detenu is alleged to have made some derogatory remarks against a

particular religion. It is to be noted that even though the crimes

were registered in the month of February and April, 2022, the

detenu has been served notices under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. only on

25.08.2022 at 11.00 a.m. Even though the learned Advocate

General has stated that the detenu was well aware of the

registration of Crime No.68 of 2022 of Mangalhat Police Station

and Crime No.71 of 2022 of Shahinayathgunj Police Station in the

months of February and April, 2022 respectively and has relied on

various newspaper clippings to show that registration of crimes

was widely published in the news papers and therefore, it cannot

be said that the detenu was not aware of registration of said crimes

against him, the same cannot be countenanced as the petitioner

was neither put on notice about registration of the said crimes at

earlier point of time nor arrested in connection with said crimes. It 60 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 is also pertinent to note that the present detention order was

served 3 ½ hours after notices under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. were

issued on 25.08.2022 at 11.00 a.m. It is also to be noted that on

23.08.2022 i.e. two days prior to the passing of the impugned

detention order, the detenu was arrested in connection with crime

No.261 of 2022 of Mangalhat Police Station and he was enlarged

on bail by the learned Metropolitan Magistrate by imposing certain

conditions. Therefore, there was no reason for the authority to

pass a detention order 3 ½ hours after serving 41-A Cr.P.C . notices

in the earlier two crimes i.e. Crime No.68 of 2022 of Mangalhat

Police Station and Crime No.71 of 2022 of Shahinayathgunj Police

Station. There is absolutely no reason given or explanation

submitted by the authority concerned in the counter or in the

arguments of the learned Advocate General with regard to serving

of the impugned detention order at 2.30 p.m. on the same day after

the 41-A Cr.P.C . notices dated 25.08.202 were served on the

detenu on 25.08.2022 at 11.00 a.m. Moreover, as seen from the

notices issued under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. in connection with

Crime No.68 of 2022 of Mangalhat Police Station and Crime No.71

of 2022 of Shahinayathgunj Police Station, the same do not

indicate as to on what date or at what time the detenu has to be

present before the authority concerned, as envisaged under the

provision of Section 41-A Cr.P.C. It is also pertinent to note that 61 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 among other conditions in the said 41-A Cr.P.C . notice, the detenu

was directed to comply with the following conditions: 36) It is to be noted that it is not even the case of the authorities

that even after issuance of notices under Section 41-A Cr.P.C., the

detenu has violated any of the conditions, which were directed to

be complied with by the detenu. 37) In this context, it is to pertinent to note that Section 41-A Cr.P.C. is aimed to avoid unnecessary arrest or threat of arrest

looming large on the accused requires to be vitalised. Section 41-A

as inserted by Section 6 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

(Amendment) Act, 2008, which is relevant in the present context,

reads as under: AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 (3) Where such person complies and continues to
 comply with the notice, he shall not be arrested in respect
 of the offence referred to in the notice unless, for reasons to
 be recorded, the police officer is of the opinion that he ought
 to be arrested. (4) Where such person, at any time, fails to comply with
 the terms of the notice or is unwilling to identify himself,
 the police officer may, subject to such orders as may have
 been passed by a competent court in this behalf, arrest him
 for the offence mentioned in the notice." (Emphasis added) 38) The aforesaid provision makes it clear that in all cases where

the arrest of a person is not required under Section 41 (1) Cr.P.C.,

the police officer is required to issue notice directing the accused to

appear before the said police officer on a particular day and at a

particular time and it further mandates that if such an accused

complies with the terms of notice he shall not be arrested, unless

for reasons to be recorded, the police officer is of the opinion that

the arrest is necessary. At this stage also, the condition precedent

for arrest as envisaged under Section 41 CrPC has to be complied

and shall be subject to the same scrutiny by the Magistrate as

aforesaid. 39) As seen from the record, the impugned detention order was

passed in derogation of the provision of Section 41-A CrPC and the

law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar v. 63 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 State of Bihar27. There was absolutely no justification for the

Detaining Authority to pass the impugned detention order dated

25.08.2022 and serving the same at 2-30 p.m. after serving the

41-A Cr.P.C . notice in the earlier two crimes i.e. Crime No.68 of

2022 of Mangalhat Police Station and Crime No.71 of 2022 of

Shahinayathgunj Police Station that too at 11.00 a.m. on

25.08.2022, more so, when there is no violation of the conditions

imposed by the police authorities. 40) It is also pertinent to note that after registration of crime

No.261/2022 of Mangalhat Police Station on 22.08.2022, the

detenu was arrested on 23.08.2022 and produced before the XIV

Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, but the learned

Metropolitan Magistrate has rejected the remand application made

by the police authorities and released the detenu on bail while

imposing the following conditions: 41) Admittedly, it is not the case of the Detaining Authority that

after the bail has been granted by the Additional Chief

27 2014 (2) ALT (Crl.) 457 (SC) 64 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 Metropolitan Magistrate vide order dated 23.08.2022, the detenu

has either indulged in committing crimes of similar nature or

violated the conditions of bail. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in a

catena of cases has held that the Detaining Authority while passing

the detention orders should be very cautious and careful where the

person has been enlarged on bail. (a) In Vijay Narain Singh vs. State of Bihar28 a three-Judge

Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held, at para 32, as

under: (Emphasis added)

28 (1984) 3 SCC 14 : 1984 SCC (Crl) 361 65 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 (b) In Vasnthu Sumalatha (referred supra), the Division

Bench of this Court has held as under: (c) In Banka Sneha Sheela v. State of Telangana29 , the

Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under: (2021) 9 SCC 415 66 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 42) One of the main objectives for passing the orders under the Preventive Detention Act is to see that the detenu does not commit

crimes of similar nature in the near future. (a) The relevant observations made by this Court in Vasnthu

Sumalatha (referred supra), are as under: 38. Exercise of the power of detention is made dependent on the
 subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority that, with a view to
 prevent a person from acting in a prejudicial manner as set out in the
 provision, it is necessary to detain such person. The words "if
 satisfied" in Section 3(1) of Act 1 of 1986 imports subjective
 satisfaction on the part of the detaining authority before an order of
 detention is made. The power of detention is clearly a preventive
 measure. It does not partake the nature of punishment. It is taken
 by way of precaution to prevent harm to the community. Since every
 preventive measure is based on the principle that a person should be
 prevented from doing something which, if left free and unfettered, it is
 reasonably probable he would do, it must necessarily proceed in all 67 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 cases, to some extent, on suspicion or anticipation as distinct from
 proof. (Khudiram Das MANU/SC/0423/1974 : (1975) 2 SCC 81). (b) In Sama Aruna v. State of Telangana30 , the Hon'ble

Supreme Court has held, at para 16, as under: 43) In this particular case, the learned Metropolitan Magistrate

has already imposed certain conditions on the detenu while

granting bail, but the said conditions have not been specifically

referred to in the impugned detention order. It is not even the case

of the authorities that after the conditional bail was granted by the

learned Metropolitan Magistrate, the detenu has violated the bail

conditions and therefore the impugned detention order was

30 (2018) 12 SCC 150 68 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 passed. Therefore, there was no compelling reason for the

Detaining Authority to pass the impugned detention order. 44) That insofar as the contention of the petitioner that illegible

copies have been served on him is concerned, the law holding the

field is as under. (a) In Vasnthu Sumalatha (referred supra), the Division

Bench of this Court has held as under: 31 (1980) 2 SCC 270 69 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 representation, the detenu is entitled to obtain information relating to
 the grounds of detention. When the grounds of detention are served
 on the detenu, he is entitled to ask for copies of the statements and
 documents referred to in the grounds of detention to enable him to
 make an effective representation. When the detenu makes a request
 for such documents, they should be supplied to him expeditiously.
 The detaining authority in preparing the grounds would have referred
 to the statements and documents relied on in the grounds of
 detention and would be ordinarily available with him - when copies of
 such documents are asked for by the detenu the detaining authority
 should be in a position to supply them with reasonable expedition.
 What is reasonable expedition will depend on the facts of each case." (c) In The State of Manipur vs. Buyamayum Abdul Hanan @

Anand32 , the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under: (d) In P. Surendra vs. The State of Andhra Pradesh

(Telangana and Andhra Pradesh )33, a Division Bench of this

Court has held as under: 32 MANU/SC/1366/2022
33 Law Finder Doc ID #743643 70 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 some of the documents supplied to the detenu were illegible resulting
 in denial of the detenus right to make an effective representation, and
 as the order of the detaining authority suffers from non-application of
 mind for having taken into consideration erroneous facts that charge-
 sheets had been filed against the detenu when, in fact, no charge-
 sheet was filed. The detenus continued detention is, thereby,
 rendered illegal." 45) Even though the learned counsel for the petitioner has

drawn the attention of the Court to the copies served on the

petitioner, which demonstrates that they are not legible and

readable, but the learned Advocate General has placed on record

the original copies of the material papers, which were served on the

detenu, to show that the same are legible and readable. Learned

Advocate General has stated that due to some fault in the

photocopying machine, some of the papers might be illegible and

the same cannot be a ground for setting aside the impugned

detention order. This Court is not dwelling into this aspect as the

petitioner has already made his representation to the Government

and the same was already considered and rejected by the Advisory

Board. 46) Further, the main allegation on which the detention order is

passed is that the detenu has used derogatory remarks against the

Prophet and the word 'Aaka' can only be used to refer to the

Prophet. AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 47) The learned Advocate General has relied on the Fatwa issued

by Darul Ifta, Darul Uloom, Deoband, Uttar Pradesh, which is an

Islamic Seminary in India, which states that the words

'Akha/Moula' can be used for Prophet of Islam also. 48) The different meanings are given for 'akha/moula' in the

Fatwa issued by the Darul Uloom Deoband, an Islamic Seminary,

on which much reliance has been placed by the learned Advocate

General. Relevant portion of the Fatwa is extracted hereunder: 49) But, it is to be noted that in Vishwa Lochan Madan v.

Union of India34 , the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under: 34 (2014) 7 SCC 707 72 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 ensue. These are the fundamentals of any legal judicial
system. In our opinion, the decisions of Dar-ul-Qaza or the
fatwa do not satisfy any of these requirements. Dar-ul-Qaza
is neither created nor sanctioned by any law made by the
competent legislature. Therefore, the opinion or the fatwa
issued by Dar-ul-Qaza or for that matter anybody is not
adjudication of dispute by an authority under a judicial
system sanctioned by law. A Qazi or Mufti has no authority
or powers to impose his opinion and enforce his fatwa on
anyone by any coercive method. In fact, whatever may be
the status of fatwa during Mogul or British Rule, it has no
place in independent India under our constitutional
scheme. It has no legal sanction and cannot be enforced by
any legal process either by the Dar-ul-Qaza issuing that or
the person concerned or for that matter anybody. The
person or the body concerned may ignore it and it will not
be necessary for anybody to challenge it before any court of
law. It can simply be ignored. In case any person or body
tries to impose it, their act would be illegal. Therefore, the
grievance of the petitioner that Dar-ul-Qazas and Nizam-e-
Qaza are running a parallel judicial system is misconceived. 15. The object of establishment of such a court may be
laudable but we have no doubt in our mind that it has no
legal status. It is bereft of any legal pedigree and has no
sanction in laws of the land. They are not part of the corpus
juris of the State. A fatwa is an opinion, only an expert is
expected to give. It is not a decree, nor binding on the court
or the State or the individual. It is not sanctioned under our
constitutional scheme. But this does not mean that
existence of Dar-ul-Qaza or for that matter practice of
issuing fatwas are themselves illegal. It is informal justice
delivery system with an objective of bringing about amicable
settlement between the parties. It is within the discretion of
the persons concerned either to accept, ignore or reject it.
However, as the fatwa gets strength from the religion; it 73 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 causes serious psychological impact on the person
intending not to abide by that. As projected by Respondent
10 "Godfearing Muslims obey the fatwas". In the words of
Respondent 10 "it is for the persons/parties who obtain
fatwa to abide by it or not". He, however, emphasises that
"the persons who are Godfearing and believe that they are
answerable to the Almighty and have to face the
consequences of their doings/deeds, such are the persons,
who submit to the fatwa". Imrana's case is an eye-opener in
this context. Though she became the victim of lust of her
father-in-law, her marriage was declared unlawful and the
innocent husband was restrained from keeping physical
relationship with her. In this way a declaratory decree for
dissolution of marriage and decree for perpetual injunction
were passed. Though neither the wife nor the husband had
approached for any opinion, an opinion was sought for and
given at the instance of a journalist, a total stranger. In this
way, the victim has been punished. A country governed by
rule of law cannot fathom it. 16. In our opinion, one may not object to issuance of fatwa
on a religious issue or any other issue so long it does not
infringe upon the rights of individuals guaranteed under the
law. Fatwa may be issued in respect of issues concerning
the community at large at the instance of a stranger but if a
fatwa is sought by a complete stranger on an issue not
concerning the community at large but individual, then the
Dar-ul-Qaza or for that matter anybody may consider the
desirability of giving any response and while considering it
should not be completely unmindful of the motivation
behind the fatwa. Having regard to the fact that a fatwa has
the potential of causing immense devastation, we feel
impelled to add a word of caution. We would like to advise
the Dar-ul-Qaza or for that matter anybody not to give any
response or issue fatwa concerning an individual, unless
asked for by the person involved or the person having direct 74 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 interest in the matter. However, in a case the person
involved or the person directly interested or likely to be
affected being incapacitated, by any person having some
interest in the matter. Issuance of fatwa on rights, status
and obligation of individual Muslims, in our opinion, would
not be permissible, unless asked for by the person
concerned or in case of incapacity, by the person interested.
Fatwas touching upon the rights of an individual at the
instance of rank strangers may cause irreparable damage
and therefore, would be absolutely uncalled for. It shall be
in violation of basic human rights. It cannot be used to
punish the innocent. No religion including Islam punishes
the innocent. Religion cannot be allowed to be merciless to
the victim. Faith cannot be used as the dehumanising force. 17. In the light of what we have observed above, the prayer
made by the petitioner in the terms sought for cannot be
granted. However, we observe that no Dar-ul-Qazas or for
that matter, anybody or institution by any name, shall give
verdict or issue fatwa touching upon the rights, status and
obligation, of an individual unless such an individual has
asked for it. In the case of incapacity of such an individual,
any person interested in the welfare of such person may be
permitted to represent the cause of individual concerned. In
any event, the decision or the fatwa issued by whatever
body being not emanating from any judicial system
recognised by law, it is not binding on anyone including the
person, who had asked for it. Further, such an adjudication
or fatwa does not have a force of law and, therefore, cannot
be enforced by any process using coercive method. Any
person trying to enforce that by any method shall be illegal
and has to be dealt with in accordance with law. (Emphasis Added) 75 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 50) Even otherwise, the translated copy of the said Fathwa

shows that number meanings can be ascribed to the word 'Aaka'

and does not necessarily refer only to the Prophet. Therefore, it

cannot be said that the alleged speech delivered by the detenu can

only be attributed to the Prophet. When number of meanings can

be attributed to a particular word, it cannot be said that the

meaning ascribed to that word by the detaining authority is the

correct one and therefore the view taken by the detaining authority

has to be sustained. 51) That insofar as the other contentions raised by the learned

Advocate General that due to the derogatory/hate speeches made

by the detenu, there was a breakdown of law & order and number

of crimes were registered against the sporadic incident of violence

which took place in different parts of the City and crimes were

registered is concerned, it is to be noted that except registration of

the said crimes, no arrest has been made nor any statistics have

been placed on record to show that the violence continued

unabated, for a number of days disturbing the public peace and

tranquillity in the State. The newspaper clippings filed by the

authorities along with the counter reveal that most of the dharnas,

rasta rokos were organised by some local political parties.

Moreover, only four sporadic incidents have taken place in twin 76 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad as seen from the number of

FIRs registered and they have been dealt with in accordance with

law. Therefore, the registration of these four crimes cannot be a

ground for passing of the impugned detention order as it is for the

authorities concerned to maintain the law and order and take

necessary action against the persons concerned, merely because

some incidents of violence have taken place, the same cannot be a

ground for invoking the provisions of Preventive Detention Act . 52) Even though the learned Advocate General has referred to

various judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court with regard to

hate speeches to support the impugned detention order, reliance

on the same is misplaced. There is absolutely no quarrel with the

proposition of law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

judgments relied by the learned Advocate General, but a careful

perusal of the said judgments shows that in all those cases the

Hon'ble Supreme Court has directed the authorities concerned to

register cases against the persons making the derogatory or hate

speeches under the normal Penal Code and other relevant

enactments but the Hon'ble Supreme Court has not held that the

provisions of the Preventive Detention Act can be invoked against

the person making those hate speeches. AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 53) Insofar as furnishing copies of the material papers to the

detenu by the authorities in not known language to the detenu is

concerned, in Krishna vs. The State of Telangana35 , a Division

Bench of this Court has held as under: (a) Further, in Vasnthu Sumalatha (referred supra), another

Division Bench of this Court has held, at para 30, as under: meant that sufficient knowledge, of the basic facts constituting the
 "grounds", should be imparted effectively, and fully to the detenu in
 writing, in a language which he understood; the whole purpose of
 communicating the "grounds" to the detenu was to enable him to
 make a purposeful and effective representation; and if the "grounds"
 were only verbally explained to the detenu, and nothing in writing was
 left with him in a language which he understood, then that purpose

35 2017 (1) ALT (Crl) 352 (DB) 78 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 was not served, and the constitutional mandate in Article 22(5) was
 infringed." 54) It would be apt to refer to the order of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Mallada K Sri Ram v. State of Telangana36 snthu

Sumalatha (referred supra), wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court

has held, at paras 15 and 17, as under: 36 2022 LawSuit (SC) 451 79 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 of 1986 for inter alia incorrectly applying the standard for
 maintenance of public order [ V Shantha v. State of Telangana , 2017
 14 SCC 577; Banka Sneha Sheela v. State of Telangana 2021 9 SCC
 415;] and relying on stale materials while passing the orders of
 detention [ Sama Aruna v. State of Telangana 2018 12 SCC 150; Khaja
 Bilal Ahmed v. State of Telangana 2020 13 SCC 632]. At least ten
 detention orders under the Telangana Act of 1986 have been set aside
 the High Court of Telangana in the last one year itself. These
 numbers evince a callous exercise of the exceptional power of
 preventive detention by the detaining authorities and the respondent-
 state. We direct the respondents to take stock of challenges to
 detention orders pending before the Advisory Board, High Court and
 Supreme Court and evaluate the fairness of the detention order
 against lawful standards." 55) Admittedly, in this particular case also the Confirmation

Order vide G.O.Rt.No.1977 General Administration (Spl. (Law &

Order) Department, dated 19.10.2022, has not been supplied to

the detenu in the language known to the detenu i.e. Hindi even as

on the date of hearing of the main case and on this ground also the

impugned detention order is liable to be set aside. In the absence

of any record or statistics to show that any untoward incidents

have taken place after the 41-A Cr.P.C . notices were served in

crime No.68 of 2022 of Mangalhat Police Station and crime No.71

of 2022 of Shahinayatgunj Police Station or that the detenu has

violated the bail conditions imposed by the learned Additional

Chief Metropolitan Magistrate in crime No.261 of 2022 of

Mangalhat Police Station, the reasons given by the detaining 80 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 authority for passing the impugned detention order are misplaced

and cannot be sustained. 56) It is apt to note the following observations made by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Banka Sneha Sheela (referred

supra): "15. ..... If a person is granted anticipatory bail/bail
 wrongly, there are well-known remedies in the ordinary law to
 take care of the situation. The State can always appeal
 against the bail order granted and/or apply for cancellation
 of bail. The mere successful obtaining of anticipatory
 bail/bail orders being the real ground for detaining the
 detenu, there can be no doubt that the harm, danger or
 alarm or feeling of insecurity among the general public
 spoken of in Section 2(a) of the Telangana Preventive of
 Dangerous Activities Act is make-believe and totally absent in
 the facts of the present case." 57) In that view of the matter, the respondent authorities are

always at liberty to file an application before the concerned

Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate seeking cancellation of

the bail granted to the detenu, in case the detenu violates any of

the conditions of bail. 58) For the reasons elaborately stated in the preceding

paragraphs and also the propositions of law laid down by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the judgments referred to above , viewed

from any angle, the impugned detention order cannot be sustained 81 AAR, J & JS, J WP No. 34934 of 2022 and is liable to be aside. However, taking into consideration the

apprehensions expressed by the learned Advocate General, we

would like to impose certain conditions on the detenu. 59) In the result, the Writ Petition is allowed. The impugned

detention order passed by respondent No.2 vide SB (1) No.156/PD-

1/HYD/2022, dated 25.08.2022, approved by respondent No.1

vide G.O.Rt.No.1651 General Administration (Spl. Law & Order)

Department, dated 26.08.2022 and confirmed by respondent No.1

vide G.O.Rt.No.1977 General Administration (Spl. {Law & Order})

Department, dated 19.10.2022, are hereby set aside. The

respondents are directed to set the detenu viz., T. Raja Singh Lodh

@ Raju Singh @ Raja Singh at liberty forthwith, in case he is no

longer required in any other criminal case and subject to the

following conditions: The miscellaneous petitions pending, if any, shall stand

closed. There shall be no order as to costs. ____________________
 A.ABHISHEK REDDY, J

 __________________
 JUVVADI SRIDEVI, J
Date : 09-11-2022. sur