This order shall dispose of two petitions as mentioned above. For the sake of
brevity, facts have been taken from CRM-44439-2022 titled as Jasvir Kumar vs. State of
Punjab . 1. The Petitioner(s) apprehending arrest in the FIR captioned above, on the
allegations of member of gang of cyber-thugs, who hacked the computers and assigned
maximum marks to those unscrupulous candidates, who had paid money for such
marks to get government job, have come up before this Court under Section 438 CrPC
seeking anticipatory bail. 2. In the bail petition(s), the accused declare that they have no criminal
antecedents. 1 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 22-05-2023 06:33:19 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:071893 2 CRM-M-44439-2022 and connected case 3. Petitioners' counsel argued that the custodial investigation would serve no
purpose whatsoever, and the pre-trial incarceration would cause an irreversible
injustice to the Petitioners and family. 4. State's counsel opposes the bail. REASONING: 5. On 16.09.2021, ASI Gurbinder Singh when he was on patrolling duty, received a
secret information that online examinations for recruitment in various departments
were conducted at the center at Infra IT Solutions, Zila Parishad Complex, Patiala and
some hackers have hacked the computers and allotting maximum marks by taking
money from such candidates. The people who are being benefitted are getting highest
marks because of which meritorious people are suffering. This information further
stated that there are massive number of members in this gang who have minted
numerous mind for money from these unscrupulous candidates who are paying money
for getting job. Based on this, police registered FIR. During the interrogation of some of
the accused who were arrested, name of the present petitioner surfaced. As per the
reply filed by the concerned DySP, they have received sufficient information about
involvement of the present petitioner(s) and massive amount of money which he has
obtained by hacking computers in connivance with other team members is yet to be
recovered. 6. I have gone through the reply and the nature of evidence which is collected,
certainly need custodial investigation of the petitioner(s) not only to find out some
hardware if not already destroyed but also to know the names of those candidates who
have got government job by illegal means and also to unearth other people involved in
this hacking of online examination. It can be said that the candidates who have paid
massive money to procure government job by hacking computers, what kind of
government officers they would become after selection. Needless to say that their first
step would be to recover the money paid to get the job and thereafter further editing
the system. It also goes without saying that so-many meritorious candidates who were
deserving job, did not get selected because of the interference in the recruitment
process by a gang of hackers. 7. Petitioner's counsel seeks bail on the grounds that the petitioner(s) were not
named in FIR; it goes without saying that the FIR was registered on the secret
information and other whistle blower only conveyed about the online job scam by
computers as such non-mentioning in the FIR is a immaterial. Furthermore the
petitioners' name has surfaced during the investigation as such he is not entitled to bail.
One more ground is made for bail that nine accused have already been granted regular 2 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 22-05-2023 06:33:19 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:071893 3 CRM-M-44439-2022 and connected case
bails; arguments are itself clear that the accused were granted regular bail under Section 439 CrPC not anticipatory bail under Section 438 CrPC, in which parameters are
different. Custodial investigation is also sought by the police in the present case. After
the arrest, it shall be permissible for the petitioner to also apply for regular bail on the
grounds of parity of those who have granted regular bail. 8. Given the nature of allegations, custodial interrogation is required. An analysis of
the allegations and evidence collected does not warrant the grant of bail to the
Petitioner(s). 9. In Jai Prakash Singh v. State of Bihar and another (2012) 4 SCC 379, Hon'ble
Supreme Court holds,
 [19]. Parameters for grant of anticipatory bail in a serious offence are
 required to be satisfied and further while granting such relief, the
 court must record the reasons therefor. Anticipatory bail can be
 granted only in exceptional circumstances where the court is prima
 facie of the view that the applicant has falsely been enroped in the
 crime and would not misuse his liberty. [See D.K. Ganesh Babu v. P.T.
 Manokaran ( 2007) 4 SCC 434, State of Maharashtra v. Mohd. Sajid
 Husain Mohd. S. Husain ( 2008) 1 SCC 213 and Union of India v.
 PadamNarain Aggarwal (2008) 13 SCC 305]. 10. In State rep. by CBI v. Anil Sharma, (1997) 7 SCC 187, Hon'ble Supreme Court
holds,
 [6]. We find force in the submission of the CBI that custodial
 interrogation is qualitatively more elicitation oriented than
 questioning a suspect who is well ensconded with a favourable order
 under Section 438 of the code. In a case like this effective
 interrogation of suspected person is of tremendous advantage in
 disinterring many useful information and also materials which would
 have been concealed. Succession such interrogation would elude if
 the suspected person knows that he is well protected and insulted by
 a pre-arrest bail during the time he interrogated. Very often
 interrogation in such a condition would reduce to a mere ritual. The
 argument that the custodial interrogation is fraught with the danger
 of the person being subjected to third degree methods need not be
 countenanced, for, such an argument can be advanced by all accused
 in all criminal cases. The court has to presume that responsible Police
 Officers would conduct themselves in task of disinterring offences
 would not conduct themselves as offenders. 11. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the Petitioners fail to make a case
for bail at this stage. 12. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
case's merits, neither the court taking up regular bail nor the trial Court shall advert to
these comments. 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 22-05-2023 06:33:19 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:071893 4 CRM-M-44439-2022 and connected case

Petitions are dismissed in aforesaid terms. All pending applications, if any, stand
disposed.