[Per Shri Justice N.A. Britto,
President] 

 

  

 

Dissatisfied with
the order of dismissal of his complaint, the complainant has approached this
Commission in appeal against the same. 2.                 
Call it a fraud; dont call it phishing, call it social engineering. The heart of the matter is that the
complainant has been swindled of a sum or Rs. 1.6 lacs by one Tikeram Singh via
Net Banking. The said sum of Rs. 1.6
lacs was debited to the savings account of the complainant on 25/04/06 at about
12:15 hrs via net banking and within minutes it was withdrawn by the said
Tikeram Singh from his account, from the Margao Branch of the O.P. The said
Tikeram Singh was a fellow customer of the Bank and for sometime was working
for their security. Since then he is absconding. 2.1. The OP Bank does not deny that there was no
fraud. They say it requires to be
investigated; but that is for punishing the guilty under the criminal law. There would not have been a fraud in case the
applications for net banking and third party fund transfer were accepted with
care, skill and diligence. They were not
as we shall soon see. 2.2. The term social
engineering is a term used to describe a scam where the perpetrators interact
with a victim in the guise of bank executives, insurance salesmen or utilities
engineers. This interaction takes place
over the phone or in person, where these skilled crooks ask for critical data
after gaining the victims confidence. 2.3. The term phishing
 is used to describe an online scam where fraudsters steal a victims personal
information by sending out emails that appear to have originated from
legitimate financial institutions like banks. The information that is sought usually 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

includes data such as usernames, passwords, bank
account and credit card numbers card expiry date, etc. etc. (see page 10, Times
of India, Goa, dated February 8, 2013) 3.                 
The complainant has
filed a police complaint on 3/5/06 against the said Tikeram Singh which is
registered as Cr. No. 138/06 and the same is being investigated by the police u/s 420 , 468 and 471 I.P.C. The police
have obtained an opinion dated 26/11/08 from the handwriting expert (Government
examiner of questioned documents, Hyderabad) after obtaining specimen
signatures of the complainant. The
handwriting expert after comparing the specimen
signatures of the complainant (S1 to S36) with the signatures on his
application dated 3/5/04 (Q1 and Q2) by which he had opened a savings account
with Curchorem Branch of the O.P. Bank, has come to the conclusion that they
were written by the same person. 4.                 
Some more facts are
required to be stated to dispose off the present appeal. 5.                 
The complainant is
a mines manager employed with M/s. Salgaocar Mining Industries. He opened a savings account with the
Curchorem Branch of O.P. Bank on or about 03/05/04 as he then was a resident of
Curchorem and according to him he had only a cheque book and ATM (automated
teller machine) facility. Complainant
used his ATM on 20/04/06 and again on 29/04/06 and at this time he noticed that
a sum of Rs. 1.6 lacs was debited from his account. Complainant made inquiry in the Branch office
and was informed that Rs. 1.6 lacs were transferred and credited to the account
of the said Tikeram Singh through third party fund transfer, through net
banking. 6.                 
The case of the
complainant, in brief, is that the said Tikeram Singh is unknown to the
complainant. The case of the complainant
is further that the said amount had been transferred by forging his signatures
and that he had never made such applications to the bank. It is also his case that the official of the
bank, who now happens to be Deputy Manager of Curchorem Branch by name Siddhesh
Bhende subscribed his signatures without verifying the signature of the
complainant with the specimen signature or verifying the signature of the
complainant on the account opening form and thereby generating the password for
net banking. According to him, the forms
submitted to him on 08/02/06 are not in his handwriting. Complainant further stated that the
applications for net banking facility were made available by the Curchorem
Branch of the bank to a person other than the complainant who was not
authorized by him and without the knowledge and consent of the
complainant. According to him, there are
glaring and patent variation in the signature of the complainant in the account
opening form and fabricated application for net banking facility which
differences are visible even to naked eyes. The complainant stated that he has every reason to believe that the said
Shri. Bhende (referring to him as person bearing No. 51707) colluded with the
said Tikeram Singh in fabrication of net banking facility as the said Tikeram
Singh for some time was the security guard of O.P. No. 2 or the said Shri.
Bhende with ulterior negligence and malafide intention verified the signatures
on the Net Banking application forms as that of the complainant thereby causing
the withdrawal of Rs. 1.6 lacs and transmitting the same to the account of the
said Tikeram Singh. Complainant stated
that there was negligence on the part of the O.P. bank
in providing Net Banking facility to the 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

complainant which he did not apply for. Complainant stated that he shifted his
residence from Curchorem to Ponda on or about 01/05/05 and requested the Bank
to change his address from Curchorem to Ponda. According to the complainant, in the first week of February 2006 he filed
a form for change of address. According to the O.P. it was on 30/01/06. According to the complainant, within two or
three days of filing the form, the complainant received a phone call both on
his landline and mobile number from the Curchorem Branch asking for details
saying that the same were required for changing the address of the complainant
and the complainant furnished the said person with all information. The complainant stated that the personnel of
the Curchorem Branch asked the complainant to send an application for changing
their address by fax on Fax No. 2652600 and accordingly the complainant faxed
the application to the Curchorem Branch on 07/02/06 and within 10 minutes the
personnel of Curchorem Branch called the complainant and asked to send another
fax as the signature of the complainant was not visible on the previous message
sent and accordingly the complainant sent another fax for the second time. The complainant claimed that the personnel of
the Curchorem Branch asked him whether he was interested in Net Banking
facility to which the complainant replied in the negative. On 17/02/2006 the complainant received a
phone call from the personnel of Curchorem Branch inquiring whether the
complainant was in receipt of an envelope from the Curchorem Branch containing
the Net Banking facility IPIN number but the complainant was out of station on
that day and the complainant again on 19/02/06 was contacted telephonically and
asked for IPIN number under the pretext that it was required for updating the
complainants account and as the complainant was ignorant about Net Banking facility or 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

for that matter what was meant by Net Banking, the complainant furnished his
IPIN number. 7.                 
The complainant on
09/05/2006 sent a legal notice to the O.P. bank at Curchorem. The same was replied to by O.P. bank on
12/05/06. 8.                 
The case of the
O.P., in brief, is that on 8/2/06 the complainant applied for Net Banking
facility and after complying with all the procedural formalities the
complainant was granted the said facility. The O.P. Bank stated that assuming whilst denying that some person
forged the signature of the complainant, the matter can at most be a subject
matter of a criminal investigation and in any case there is no deficiency in
service provided by the O.P. The O.P. stated that when the complainant made
the first request for recording the change of his address, the complainant was
asked to produce proof of new address as per guidelines issued by the RBI and
after the complainant furnished the proof of his changed address, complainants
request for change of address was processed. According to the O.P., the complainant was
granted Net Banking facility on 08/02/06 after complying with all formalities
and a password which is the soul of Net Banking facility was dispatched to the
complainant at his new address at Dhavali, Ponda, Goa, and the instructions
were sent alongwith the password. The
significance of the password was emphasized in the instructions as well as on the Home
Page of the website of the O.P., to the effect that the customers should not
disclose the password to any other person,
it should not be written
negligently at any random place, and should be as far
as possible memorized in order
to avoid leakage and 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

consequent misuse and the customers were also informed
that the bank will never ask for the password and the password should not be
disclosed to any person including the officials of the bank and these
safeguards were followed in the case of the complainant. O.P. has stated that No. 2652600 is not their
fax number, their fax number being 2650097. The bank has denied the allegations that any of their officials asked
the complainant to send a fax. The bank
has stated that if the complainant have disclosed his password to any person it
is gross negligence and the bank cannot be held liable for the negligence of
the complainant. 9.                 
The complainant, to
support his case, filed his own affidavit. The O.P. Bank filed the affidavits of their Branch Manager Shri. S.
Lotlikar and that of their Deputy Branch Manager Shri. Siddhesh Bhende. The affidavit of Shri. Lotlikar is more of a
formal character. The affidavit of
Siddhesh Bhende is more relevant as it is he who processed the applications
allegedly filed by the complainant on 08/02/06 for obtaining e-Age Banking
channels and third party fund transfer through Net Banking and generated ipin and
password to operate the said facilities. The former was cross examined orally while the latter was cross examined
on interrogatories. 9.1. The question
therefore is whom to believe, whether the complainant or the said Deputy Manger
Shri. Siddhesh Bhende. We are inclined
to believe the complainant as his evidence is duly corroborated. If today, the said Tikeram Singh is to be
arrested and interrogated in police custody, he will certainly disclose many
facts as to how he managed to defraud the complainant with complicity of one or
other staff members of the Bank at Curchorem. 9.2. Before dealing with
the evidence of the said Deputy Manager, Shri. Bhende, we may have a look at
the manner how the account of the said Tikeram Singh was opened by flouting normal banking procedures. The said Tikeram Singh filed an application
for opening savings bank account on 17/04/06 with a photograph with his eyes
closed and his application was processed by one Alyosha Carvalho. When Shri. S. Lotlikar was questioned about
it, he admitted that the photograph on the account opening form of the said Tikeram
Singh was with his eyes closed. The said
Shri. Lotlikar explained that they normally would not have accepted the
photograph of an account holder whose eyes are closed but in this case they had
accepted it as it was taken in their Branch. We fail to understand as to why another photograph of the said Tikeram
Singh could not be taken in case the photograph was taken in the Branch or why
he was not asked to bring another proper photograph with his eyes open. It is more probable that his photograph with
closed eyes was accepted because he was known to the bank officials as he was
working as security guard. This is sheer
negligence. At the same time, Shri.
Lotlikar stated that he had not signed his account opening form. He also stated that he would not have
approved the application, if he was there and he had received the said
photograph with closed eyes. (here it may be noted that the word not is
missing from the original deposition and must be a typographic error). It is therefore obvious that the officials
of the Bank accepted an application form of the said Tikeram Singh, a form
which otherwise would not have been accepted, with a photograph with his eyes
closed. This is sheer negligence of the
official of the Bank, Ms. Alyosha Carvalho and the Manager who accepted it. 9.3. Shri. Lotlikar in
his further cross examination stated that it is the front line staff who accept
the applications of the customers for the opening of accounts and the
applications received in this case were not processed by him but by the said
Shri. Siddhesh Bhende and then placed before him for further formalities. He further stated that the application of the
complainant (dated 3/5/04) was not processed by Shri. Siddhesh Bhende but the
application for Net Banking was processed by him (wrongly recorded as by
me). He further stated that when a
customer opens an account, besides his signature on the photograph, another
signature of his is obtained at the bottom which signature constitutes the
specimen signature of the customer and that no other separate specimen
signature is obtained on any other application form. He stated that he did not remember the date
when the complainant complained about unauthorized withdrawal of Rs. 1.6 lacs
and after written complaint was received from complainant he had discussed the
matter with Shri. Siddhesh Bhende and Shri.
Siddhesh Bhende did not tell him that the complainant had signed on separate
forms his specimen signature on account of variation in his signature. He stated that on comparison, there was
variation in the signature on E-H banking channels form and the specimen
signature on account opening form. He then
added to say that there was slight variation. He was asked about the procedure to be followed, if there was variation
in the signature on the cheque and the variation on the specimen signature, and
he replied stating that in such cases they call the customer and confirm the
signature on the cheque and then honour the same. In further cross examination, he reiterated
that he has not accepted both the forms of the complainant and further stated
that he could not tell as to whether the said two applications/forms were
submitted by the complainant personally or by
any other person. He clarified that the signatures were verified by the
said Siddhesh Bhende on 8/2/06 and further admitted that there were two
signatures obtained of the concerned party. He then changed his earlier statement and stated that Shri. Siddhesh
Bhende had informed him that the said two signatures of the concerned customer
were obtained as there was variation in his specimen signature and the
signatures affixed to the said forms. 9.4. Be that as it may,
and before considering the evidence of Deputy Manager, Shri. Siddhesh Bhende,
it is necessary to state that in the course of investigations of crime number
138/2006 PSI. Shri. Nilesh Dhargodkar had obtained 36 signatures
of the complainant and marked them as S1 to S36. The signature on the original application
form of the complainant dated 3/5/04 across the photograph was marked as Q1 and
below the photograph as Q2. The
signatures on E-H banking channels and third party transfer through Net Banking
were marked as Q3 and Q4 and Q5 and Q6 respectively and sent for opinion of the
handwriting expert who has opined that the person who wrote the blue enclosed
signatures stamped and marked S1 to S36 also wrote the red enclosed signatures
similarly stamped and marked as Q1 and Q2. He further stated it has not been possible to express any opinion on the
signatures marked as Q3 to Q6 as they are slowly drawn models. 9.5. Reverting to the
evidence of Shri. Siddhesh Bhende, he stated that on 08/02/06 the complainant
applied for Net Banking facility with provision for third party transfer and
submitted two forms, one for E-H Banking channels and the other for application
for third party transfer through Net Banking. He stated that the complainant filled in the said forms
with all details
including the number and 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

date of expiry of its debit card which is exclusively
within the knowledge of the holder and when he compared the complainants
signatures on the said forms with the specimen signature on record in the
computer system of the bank, he found that the signatures differed. Complainant then subscribed one more
signature on each of the said forms and submitted the said forms representing
that his signature had undergone change, from a period of time. According to him, since the signature
differed from the specimen signature on their record, the complainant
subscribed an additional signature on the ground that his signature has
undergone change and he accepted the said applications and authenticated by
subscribing his signature and proceeded to process his request for Net Banking
facility with third party transfer facility and forwarded the same to their
central processing unit at Chandivaly, Mumbai, for further action which was
eventually accorded to the complainant. He further stated that the complainant issued a password which was sent
to him by the central processing unit at the address recorded in the bank and
the complainant negligently disclosed his password to an unknown person which
was gross negligence on part of the complainant. 9.6. Admittedly,
according to Shri. Siddhesh Bhende, the signatures of the complainant at points
Q3 and Q5 differed with the specimen signature of the complainant at Q2 and
therefore he asked the complainant to subscribe to an additional signature. If the complainant was before him, and he
found that the signature of the Complainant at Q3 and Q5 differed from Q2, one
fails to understand as to how the complainant could sign 36 times before the
Inv. Officer in the same manner as he did on 03/05/04 at Q1 or Q2. It is, therefore, obvious that the
complainant was not
before the said 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

Siddhesh Bhende when he claims that he took the
signatures of the complainant at Q3 and 5. Again, the handwriting expert has opined that the signatures at Q3 to Q6
are slowly drawn models which only means that somebody else has tried to
imitate the signature of the complainant either from his application form dated
3/5/04 or as seen from the computer or from the faxed copy of application for
change of residence. Where on earth was there
any need for the complainant, if he was present before the said Shri. Siddhesh
Bhende, to imitate his own signatures? If the complainant was before him, the complainant
would have freely put his signatures, in the same manner as he did on 3/5/04 on
his application form for opening a savings account, as well as two years later
when the police officer took his 36 signatures which tally with the signatures
put by him on the application dated 3/5/04. In other words, if the Complainant had approached Shri. Bhende on
08/02/06 there was no need for him not to have signed as he had done on
03/05/04 or imitate his own signatures. The inference is that he was not present before Shri. Bhende on
08/02/06. Further inference is that
Shri. Bhende has falsely stated that he was present. It is therefore obvious, that someone else
other then the complainant, who imitated or forged the signatures of the
complainant at Q3 to Q6 on the said applications for E-H banking and third
party transfer through Net Banking. 9.7. That is not the end
of the matter. Admittedly, when
complainant filed the application for opening the account on 3/5/04, Shri.
Siddhesh Bhende was not working for Curchorem Branch, he having joined the said
Branch on 01/07/04. Shri. Bhende, was
asked as to on how many occasions he had met the complainant prior 8/2/06 and
his answer was that
he did not
 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

recollect on how many occasions he had met the
complainant prior to 8/2/06. Since the
complainant had opened an account on 3/5/04 and had an ATM facility, it is more
probable that the Complainant had no occasion to visit the Branch. The said Shri. Bhende had no opportunity to
see the complainant at all. Shri. Bhende
admitted that they did not have circuit cameras prior to 8/2/02. Shri. Bhende stated that he had compared the
signatures on the application form with the signature available on the bank
computer but when he was further questioned as to whether the bank computer had
a photograph, he replied in the negative. The question, therefore, is, whose signatures
at Q3 and Q5 did he compare with the specimen available on the computer? In
further cross examination Shri. Bhende admitted that he did not remember as to
who had filled in the details on the said two forms whether it is the
complainant or whether said forms were brought duly filled in. The opinion given by the handwriting expert
falsifies the version given by Shri. Siddhesh Bhende. The 36 specimen signatures show that
signature of the complainant had not changed and otherwise also it is unlikely,
they would change within a short span of two years. If at all Shri. Bhende had found that the
signatures at Q3 and Q5 did not tally with the signature of the complainant in
the computer, the least which was expected of him is to call for the original
application form to verify the signature as well as the identity of the person
signing before him, from the photograph. In not doing this he was negligent. In the circumstances therefore we have no hesitation to come to the
conclusion, as stated by the complainant, that he had not filed any
applications on 8/2/06 for E-H banking or for third party transfer through Net
Banking and his signatures were forged and that Shri. Bhende has deposed to
save his own skin. The opinion given
by the handwriting expert is a clear indication that the signature of the complainant have been forged and
further the 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

inescapable conclusion is that the said Tikeram Singh
in complicity with some or other of the bank staff submitted the said forms
with forged signatures of the complainant and Shri. Bhende without ascertaining
whether the same were really signed by the complainant, processed the same and
got for the complainant an ipin or a password. The complainant under bonafide
belief that someone from the bank was really processing his application for
change of address sought for by him, gave all details of password or ipin which facilitated the said Tikeram Singh
and his accomplice/s to transfer the said sum of Rs. 1.6 lacs in his
favour. The complainant might have been
a mines manager but every mines manager need not have been e-savy and for not being
that, he was taken for a ride, and made to believe, that the phone calls really
came from the officials of the bank and believing the same that he passed on
the information which he was otherwise
required to keep for himself. The
complainant has been a victim of cheating by the said Tikeram Singh and some
other official/s of the Curchorem branch of the O.P. Bank. Shri. Bhende ought to have rejected the
application for Net Banking and third party transfer facilities on the ground
that the signatures of the complainant on the said applications did not tally
with the account opening signature of the complainant. If Shri. Bhende was so confident that the
complainant was before him and had really stated that his signature had
undergone change, Shri. Bhende would have ensured that the signature of the
complainant was also changed in the record of the bank and then only process
the said two otherwise fabricated applications.
Shri. Bhende ought to have called for the application form dated 03/05/04
and satisfied himself of the identity of the persons who had submitted the said
two applications. The fact that Shri. Bhende
had not changed the specimen
signature
in
the 

 

  

 

computer further falsifies the version given by
him. As rightly pointed out on behalf of
the Complainant in the year 2006 or thereabout Net Banking was a recent
development, and for many, it still is unheard
of. It is more than probable that the
complainant, though a mines manager was
neither computer savy nor e-savy and 

 

was illiterate on those aspects. According
to him, ATM means anytime money. He was
made to part with vital information under the pretext that the same was
required to change his address. Any
normal person ignorant of Net Banking would have done so. The genesis for the fraud is the forged and
fabricated applications which were accepted by Shri. Bhende on 8/2/06
negligently and without any verification of the signatures and identity of the
complainant. The complainant was cheated
in giving away the password or ipin on the pretext that they were required to
change his address. Generating
ipin/password when not applied for by a customer, on the basis of forged and
fabricated forms is negligence which amounts to gross deficiency of banking
service. The Bank is liable for the
negligence of Shri. Bhende, its servant. 10.            
For the above
reasons, we allow this appeal an set aside the impugned order and order the
O.P. bank to pay to the complainant the said sum of Rs. 1.6 lacs with pending
and future interest at the rate of 9% from 25/04/06 untill payment in terms of
prayer clause b and a sum of Rs. 1 lac in terms of prayer clause c. The complainant would also be entitled for
sum of Rs. 5000/- being the cost of the complaint and another sum of Rs. 5000/-
being the cost of the appeal to be paid by the O.P. In case the compensation in terms of prayer
b and costs is not paid within a period of 30 days, the same shall carry
interest at the rate of 9% untill payment. [Shri. Jagdish
Prabhudesai] [Shri
Justice N.A. Britto] 

 

 MEMBER PRESIDENT