1. The Information in the present case was filed by People's All India Anti- Corruption and Crime Prevention Society ('Informant') under Section
 19(l)(a) of the Competition Act, 2002 (the 'Act') against Usha International
 Ltd. ('OP-1'), M/s Klassy Computers ('OP-2'), M/s Nayan Agencies ('OP-
 3'), M/s Jawahar Brothers ('OP-4') and Pune Zilla Parishad ('OP-5')
 alleging contravention of the provisions of Section 3(3) of the Act
 (hereinafter, OP-1 to OP-5 are collectively referred to as the 'Opposite
 Parties/ OPs'). A. Information filed under Section 19 of the Act 2. The Informant was stated to be a society registered under the Societies
 Registration Act, 1860 . OP-1 was, inter alia, stated to be engaged in the
 business of sale of new age home appliances such as sewing machines, fans,
 power products, water coolers, water dispensers, etc. OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4
 were stated to be the authorised dealers of OP-1. OP-5 is the local
 government body that administers the rural areas of Pune district of
 Maharashtra. 3. As per the Information filed with the Commission, OP-5 invited bids, vide
 e-tender no. 1/15-16 dated 07.11.2015 ('Impugned Tender'), from eligible
 vendors for procurement of Picofall-cum-Sewing Machine (Multifunction)
 with Indian Standard Institute (ISI) mark for distribution amongst the people
 belonging to backward classes, women, and disabled persons living in the
 rural areas of Pune district under a scheme announced by the Social Welfare
 Department (SWD) of the Government of Maharashtra. It was submitted
 that the Government of Maharashtra, vide resolutions dated 02.01.1992 and
 30.10.2015, had specified that the government departments should purchase
 products bearing ISI mark only through public procurement and in the event
 of non-availability of ISI mark products, the concerned department may opt
 for non-ISI mark products provided that the products to be purchased should
 be in conformity with the standards specified by ISI. It was averred that
 despite Picofall-cum-Sewing Machine bearing ISI mark being available in
 the market, OP-5, at the behest of OP-1, allegedly obtained equivalent
 specifications from the Government Polytechnic Institute, Pune vide letter
 dated 14.09.2015 and then invited bids. It was alleged that the same was
 done so that the product specifications of OP-1 would only match with the
 specifications of the Government Polytechnic Institute, Pune. 4. It was alleged that in response to the said e-tender, OP-2 to OP-4 had
 submitted identical bids and they also agreed as to who will submit the Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 3 of 52 lowest bid and determined the common norms to calculate prices and terms
 of the bids. It was submitted that the bids submitted by OP-2 to OP-4 show
 that all of them quoted near identical prices. After the technical evaluation,
 the bids of OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 were accepted and the bid of SVS
 Chemicals was rejected due to non-submission of 'experience certificate'. 5. The Informant had averred that OP-1 had submitted authorisation letters to
 OP-5 in favour of OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 by deliberately mentioning itself as
 an authorised marketer of Usha-Jenome sewing machine. It was stated that
 the original manufacturer of the sewing machines sold by OP-1 was Janome
 (Thailand) Co. Ltd. and OP-1 was only its authorised Indian representative
 and neither OP-1 nor OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 fulfil the eligibility criteria for
 the aforesaid tender of OP-5. It was averred that due to extraneous
 consideration, OP-5 had deliberately overlooked all the aforesaid aspects to
 favour OP-1. As per the Informant, the terms of the bid were framed in such
 a manner that none other than OP-1 and its dealers can fulfil the same. It
 was also stated that the Opposite Parties had indulged in malpractices and
 corruption causing huge loss to the pubic exchequer. Further, it was averred
 that OP-5 vide its letter dated 15.01.2016 changed the terms of the original
 tender in order to favour OP-1, thereby rendering the tender null and void. 6. It was further alleged that OP-1 submitted three bids through its authorised
 dealers, viz. OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 with meagre price difference which is
 against the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) guidelines. Further, on
 08.01.2016 when the tender was opened, it was found that OP-2 had quoted
 per unit price of Rs. 11,900/- (Rs.12,621/- with taxes); OP-3 had quoted per
 unit price of Rs. 11,931/- (Rs.12,649/- with taxes); and OP-4 had quoted per
 unit price of Rs. 11,921/- (Rs.12,638/- with taxes). Subsequently, OP-2 vide
 its letter dated 11.01.2016 reduced the per unit price from Rs. 12621/- to Rs.
 12521/- which was again reduced to Rs. 12250/- and the tender was awarded
 to OP-2. 7. It was averred that the price quoted by OP-2 was almost double the
 Maximum Retail Price (MRP) of the same machine marketed and
 distributed by OP-1 in the open market. This clearly shows that OP-5
 awarded the contract at a very high price due to extraneous consideration. It
 was also submitted that OP-2 to OP-4 have submitted their respective bids
 through a single IP address, i.e. 116.75.133.164 and the fee for tender and
 EMD was paid through a common bank, i.e., the State Bank of India. 8. It was further alleged that OP-5 had floated another tender on 25.08.2016 to
 purchase Picofall-cum-Sewing Machine to the tune of Rs. 4,10,90,000/-
 wherein the delivery period and payment terms were changed, and a
 corrigendum was published, in this regard, on the last date of submission of
 tender, i.e. on 07.09.2016. Six bidders, viz. OP-1, OP-2, OP-3, OP-4,
 Suttraway Engg. Works Pvt. Ltd., and M/s Sunil Traders participated in the
 aforementioned tender. OP-5, after floating the new tender, again issued a
 supply order on 07.09.2016 worth Rs. 2,37,77,250/- to OP-2 before
 concluding the current bidding process. It was averred that the afore-
 mentioned supply order was placed on the basis of previous year's tender
 process which was illegal and unlawful and also contrary to the directions
 issued by the Hon'ble Bombay High Court vide its order dated 13.08.2008
 in Writ Petition no. 1889 of 2007 in the matter of Vijay Kumar Gupta vs.
 the State of Maharashtra and Ors. In the said order, the Hon'ble High Court
 directed the Government of Maharashtra to ensure that no extension of
 contracts is granted by its various departments and instrumentalities in
 future except when it is found necessary in the wisdom of the competent
 Authorities for valid reasons alone that too to be recorded in writing and
 after due consultation with the concerned Department as also in accordance
 with Rules of Business, instructions issued by the Government, and in strict
 adherence to the prescribed procedure. 9. Based on the above, it was alleged that OP-1 has indulged in bid rigging and
 also entered into an agreement with OP-2, OP-3, OP-4 and OP-5 to Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 5 of 52 eliminate competition in the market which is in violation of the provisions
 of the Act. The Informant thus requested the Commission to initiate an
 inquiry into the aforesaid conduct of the OPs and pass an order holding the
 aforesaid conduct of the OPs to be in contravention of the provisions of Section 3(3) of the Act. B. Directions to the Director General 10. Upon considering the Information and hearing the parties during the
 preliminary conference held on 04.01.2017, the Commission was of the
 prima facie view that OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 had indulged in bid rigging and
 collusive bidding in contravention of the provisions of Section 3(3) of the
 Act. The Commission also observed that other allegations raised by the
 Informant regarding the conduct of OP-5 in facilitating bid rigging by OP-
 2 to OP-4 do not fall within the domain of competition law and the
 Informant may raise its grievance before the appropriate forum.
 Accordingly, the Commission passed an order dated 22.03.2017 under Section 26(1) of the Act directing the Director General (hereinafter, the
 "DG") to cause an investigation to be made into the matter. The DG was
 further directed to investigate the role of the officials/persons who at the
 time of contravention of the provision of the Act, if any, were in-charge of
 and responsible for the alleged conduct of OP-2 to OP-4 or with whose
 consent or connivance the alleged conduct of OP-2 to OP-4 took place. C. Investigation by the DG 11. After investigation, the DG submitted its investigation report on 28.03.2018. The DG framed the following two issues for the purpose of the
 investigation: (a) Whether there is cartelisation and bid rigging/collusive
 bidding in Tender No. 1/2015-16 dated 07.11.2015 floated by the Pune Zilla
 Parishad for supply of Picofall-cum-Sewing Machine? If yes, who are the
 Opposite Parties involved in the cartelisation and bid rigging/collusive
 bidding in contravention of the provisions of Section 3 of the Act? and (b) Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 6 of 52 If the answer to Issue (a) is in affirmative, who were the persons/officers in-
 charge of and responsible for the conduct of the business of the OPs
 concerned at the time of the said contravention? Based on the analysis,
 evidence, facts and circumstances discussed in the investigation report, the
 DG found that OP-1 to OP-4 were in active collusion and there was meeting
 of minds between them and thereby, they have violated the provisions of Section 3(3)(d) read with Section 3(1) of the Act. Further, two individuals
 of OP-1 and 4 individuals of OP-4 were found to be responsible under Section 48 of the Act for their conduct. The findings of the DG, in brief, are
 as follows: OP-2 had quoted per unit price of Rs. 11,900/- (Rs. 12,621/- with
 taxes); OP-3 had quoted per unit price of Rs. 11,931/- (Rs. 12,649/-
 with taxes) and OP-4 had quoted per unit price of Rs. 11,921/- (Rs.
 12,638/- with taxes). The DG observed that the difference in prices
 quoted by OP-2 and OP-3 is Rs. 28/-, and that of OP-3 and OP-4 is Rs.
 11/- and OP-2 and OP-4 is Rs. 17/- only. 11.3. OP-2 used its own IP address for filling up the tenders of all three
 bidders, i.e. for itself and OP-3 and OP-4 which was not disputed rather
 admitted by OP-2. As per the DG, this goes to establish that the
 Impugned Tender was subjected to bid rigging by OP-2, coupled with
 the consent and connivance of OP-3 and OP-4 in the process to rig the
 bids. 11.4. The analysis of call data record (CDR) revealed that Mr. Venkatesh,
 Proprietor of OP-2 was in continuous touch with Mr. Nayan Shah, Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 7 of 52 Proprietor of OP-3 and Mr. Rahul Shah of OP-4 at the time of
 submission of bids for the Impugned Tender. Based on the CDR
 analysis, there is evidence that on the date of submission of bids - by
 OP-3 and OP-4, all the three OPs were not only interacting with each
 other, but there were also - - talks in quick sessions amongst the three
 of them. They were in constant touch with each other - and thus - as
 per the DG, it is a reasonable inference that they had a deep level of
 association as well as they were into collusive bidding.
11.5. OP-2 to OP-4 were closely coordinating with each other in relation to
 participation in other tenders also. 11.6. The DG had also noted that in the instant matter, the bids have been
 ostensibly submitted by OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 with the help of OP-1
 which issued authorisation letters dated 24.11.2015 addressed to OP-5
 whereby it authorised OP-2 to OP-4 to quote and negotiate for items
 mentioned in the said tender. In the absence of availability of such
 authorisations, OP-2 to OP-4 would not have been technically
 qualified by Pune Zilla Parishad. Thus, as per the DG, the role of OP-
 1 in the entire process of tendering is of relevance and significance.
 Accordingly, the DG has examined the manner in which such
 authorisation letters have been issued by OP-1 and noticed that these
 authorisation letters have been issued without making recourse to the
 stated manner/ procedure as no documentation, whether submitted by
 the aspiring bidder or the internal documentation/ file noting, etc, have
 been maintained and produced. The DG has also stated that in about
 half a dozen tenders, the bid money on behalf of OP-1 was paid by OP-
 2 and that the tenders were also filled in, by the latter. Thus, the DG
 has concluded that OP-1 was the main stakeholder of tender for supply
 of sewing machines and more specifically tender No. 01/2015-16 of
 OP-5 and that there was collusion/complicity between OP-1 and the
 bidders of this tender through OP-2, which is a contravention of the
 provisions of the Act. 12. Finally, the DG concluded that the role played by Mr. Venkatesh of OP-2
 at various stages of the bidding for the tender which includes use of his own
 funds for bids of OP-3 and OP-4, use of common IP address belonging to
 OP-2 for filling up of bids, close association and coordination between OP-
 2, OP-3 and OP-4 on a regular basis evidenced through admission of all the
 key personnel of these OPs as well as their CDRs, coupled with admitted
 coordination in various other tenders floated by the authorities in the region
 around the same time, etc. do establish beyond doubt the common thread
 and scheme for such coordination between them. 13. Thus, the DG concluded that there was a meeting of minds and coordination
 amongst OP-1 to OP-4 in contravention of the provisions of Section 3(3)(d) read with Section 3(1) of the Act. D. Consideration of the Investigation Report: 14. The Commission considered the investigation report of the DG in its
 ordinary meeting held on 15.05.2018 and decided to forward an electronic
 copy thereof to the parties and their respective individuals found responsible
 for the purpose of Section 48 of the Act, for filing their respective
 objections/ suggestions thereto along with financial details. The parties/
 persons were further directed to appear for oral hearing before the
 Commission either in person or through authorised representatives on
 18.07.2018. The Commission heard the counsels of the parties including the
 Informant on 08.08.2018, 07.09.2018, and 10.09.2018, and decided to pass
 an appropriate order in due course. 15. During the course of hearing on 07.09.2018, Mr. A. N. Haksar, the learned
 senior counsel appearing on behalf of OP-1 and its individuals argued that
 the DG committed grave error by relying upon the deposition of OP-2 to
 bolster its purported findings to show personal relationship between Mr.
 Venkatesh R. Darak, Sole Proprietor of OP-2 and Mr. Sanjeev Thakur, Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 9 of 52 Zonal Manager of OP-1. Mr. Haksar also contended that the DG did not
 provide sufficient opportunity to OP-1 to respond to the queries raised by
 the Office of the DG. Further, it was also contended that the DG did not
 provide any opportunity to cross-examine the persons whose statements
 were recorded by the DG and relied upon to record finding of contravention
 against OP-1. 16. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and after perusing the
 records, the Commission was of the opinion that the DG while exercising
 its statutory powers under Section 41(2) read with Section 36(2) of the Act,
 did not give sufficient time to OP-1 to respond to the queries raised vide
 Notice dated 23.03.2018 and the Report was signed on 28.03.2018 itself
 without considering the reply submitted by OP-1 dated 31.03.2018.
 Moreover, the DG did not accord opportunity of cross-examination to the
 OPs. The Commission also noted that the DG did not examine the officials
 of OP-5 to ascertain the eligibility of the bidders in terms of tender
 conditions by requisitioning the relevant records. 17. Accordingly, the Commission was of the considered opinion that before
 proceeding any further in the present matter, it would be appropriate to
 direct the DG in terms of the provisions contained in Regulation 20(6) of
 the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 to
 conduct further investigation on the issues identified above. Accordingly,
 vide order dated 04.10.2018, the DG was directed to make further
 investigation/ analysis and submit a revised comprehensive Investigation
 Report after incorporating and analysing the replies filed by OP-1 besides
 providing opportunity of cross-examination to the OPs and doing the
 needful as elaborated above. E. Supplementary Investigation Report of the DG 18. Based on the Order of the Commission dated 04.10.2018, the DG
 formulated following issues for investigation: (a) the role played by officials Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 10 of 52 of OP-5 in the tendering process, particularly at the stage of designing of the
 tender and evaluation of the bids and examination of the officials of OP-5
 to ascertain the eligibility of the bidders in terms of tender conditions; (b) to
 accord opportunity of cross-examination to the OPs; and (c) examination of
 reply of OP-1 dated 31.03.2018. 19. The DG submitted its Supplementary Investigation Report on 23.10.2019. During the investigation, the DG analysed the role of OP-5 in designing of
 tender and evaluation of the bids and it was noted by the DG that OP-5 did
 not follow the procedure laid down and as such did not exercise due
 diligence while evaluating the bids. Further, the OPs were accorded
 opportunities of cross-examination. Reply dated 31.03.2018 of OP-1 was
 also examined during the course of the investigation. The DG concluded by
 noting that the basic nature of the transgression, which existed in the initial
 report, has not been removed by the OPs and no new answer has emerged
 during further investigation. In fact, the DG stated that the second round of
 the investigation has strengthened the fact that there was a nexus and
 meeting of minds between the OPs, especially OP-1 and OP-2. F. Consideration of the Investigation Reports by the Commission 20. The Commission considered the Supplementary Investigation Report of the
 DG in its ordinary meeting held on 10.02.2020 and decided to forward an
 electronic copy of the same to the Informant, Opposite Parties and the
 individuals who were identified by the DG for the purposes of Section 48 of
 the Act for filing their respective composite and comprehensive
 objections/suggestions on the Investigation Report of the DG dated
 28.03.2018 as well as the Supplementary Investigation Report dated
 23.10.2019. The Commission further directed the Opposite Parties to
 furnish their audited balance sheets and profit & loss accounts/ turnover for
 the previous three financial years, i.e. 2015-16, 2016-17 and 2017-18, if not
 already filed. These enterprises were further directed to file the details of Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 11 of 52 the revenue and profit generated from sale of sewing machines during these
 financial years by way of affidavits supported by certificates of Chartered
 Accountants. The persons identified by the DG for the purposes of Section
 48 of the Act were also directed to furnish their income details including the
 individual Income Tax Returns (ITRs) for the said duration, if not already
 filed. The parties/persons were further allowed to file their respective
 responses to the objections/ suggestions filed by the other parties/persons,
 if so desired. The parties/persons were further directed to appear for a final
 hearing on the Investigation Report, including the Supplementary
 Investigation Report, on 21.04.2020. 21. However, considering the exigencies due to COVID-19, the Commission
 extended the timelines for completing these compliances. Finally, the
 parties were heard through virtual mode, i.e. through video conferencing
 ('VC') on 29.10.2020 and the Commission decided to pass an appropriate
 order in due course. As prayed, the parties were also allowed to file synopsis
 of their oral arguments, within 2 (two) weeks, if so desired. G. Replies/ Objections/ Submissions of the parties 22. Details of the replies, objections, and contentions of the parties in their
 written submission and those advanced during the oral hearing are
 summarised below: 23. It has been submitted that the investigation report wrongly implicated OP-1
 guilty of alleged contravention of the provisions of the Act. There is no
 evidence or document in respect of entering into any anti-competitive
 agreement in present matter which would have made OP-1 liable under the
 Act. It has inter-alia been submitted that: However, OP-1 had neither fixed the price by manipulation of bids of Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 12 of 52 participants of tender nor fixed quantity to be supplied by the
 participants to OP-5 by influencing and forming cartel with the
 participants. 23.2. There is no evidence in the investigation report in respect of
 appreciable adverse effect on competition in terms of Section 3 read
 with Section 19 of the Act. 23.3. Authorisation letters were issued by OP-1 to eligible entities which
 were found suitable for fulfilling OP-1's criteria for participation in
 tenders floated by OP-5. Mere absence of internal file noting, request
 letters from entities and copies of all participation letters, investigating
 officer erroneously inferred adversely against OP-1 without
 appreciating that the terms of delivery of the product were based on
 advance payments. 23.4. Total amount of the Impugned Tender was a minuscule portion of the
 total sales of OP-1 as also of total sales of OP-1 from sewing machines.
23.5. Opportunity of cross-examination was not provided in respect of
 statements of certain persons who made statements against OP-1
 during the DG's investigations. 23.6. The DG gave erroneous and irrelevant finding that OP-1 was the only
 party who could have supplied sewing machines as per OP-5's
 specifications. 23.7. OP-1 has submitted that it did not bid in the Impugned Tender floated
 by OP-5 in November 2015 and the second tender floated by OP-5 in
 August 2016 (in which OP-1 submitted its bid) was cancelled without
 opening. Hence, it has been claimed that OP-1 was not at the same
 level as that of other bidders, i.e. OP-2 to OP-4 and hence there is no
 question of any cartel or bid rigging or collusive bidding by OP-1
 within the meaning of the Act. Reply of OP-2: 24. OP-2 has submitted that the findings against it in the DG's Report are false,
 baseless and without merit, and therefore liable to be dismissed for want of
 evidence and no application of mind. It has been inter alia submitted that: Reply of OP-3: 25. OP-3 has stated that the findings of the DG, as against OP-3, are false,
 untenable and without merit and liable to be dismissed outright for want of
 cogent evidence. It has been inter alia submitted that: Reply of OP-4 and its individual 26. OP-4 has submitted that answering party itself is a victim of fraud and
 forgery as its digital signatures along with other documents were misused
 by OP-2 to apply for the Impugned Tender for which a complaint has also
 been filed with local police authorities. It has been inter alia submitted that: 27.1. Tender documents submitted to OP-5 on behalf of OP-4 were in the
 name of 'Jawahar Brothers & Agency' whereas its name is 'Jawahar
 Brothers'. Further, the authorisation letter issued by OP-1 was also in
 the name of Jawahar Brothers & Agency. 27.2. OP-4 requested OP-2 to procure digital signatures for OP-4 for the
 purpose of another tender; other documents of OP-4 (including stock
 certificate) were also given to OP-2 for the same. These documents
 were misused by OP-2 for submitting bid in the Impugned Tender.
 27.3. No communication has taken place between OP-1 and OP-4.
 27.4. No sample has been submitted by OP-4 with OP-5 which was required
 as a prerequisite for the Impugned Tender. 27.5. Mr. Rahul Shah admitted having received the tender submission
 message but claimed that similar format of auto generated SMS
 received from GEPMAH, caused confusion and he was under the
 impression that the SMS received pertains to another tender 10
 2015_RDPUN_81219_1 for flour mills which was submitted on the
 same date as that of the Impugned Tender. H. Analysis and findings of the Commission 28. The Commission has perused the investigation report(s), suggestions/
 objections filed by the parties and other material available on record Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 16 of 52 including the oral arguments made by the parties. As per the Investigation
 report(s), OP-1 was formed in 1934 and is inter alia engaged in the business
 of home appliances including sewing machines. OP-2 is a proprietary firm
 owned by Mr. Venkatesh Ramlal Darak located in Pune which is involved
 in supply and sales of various products/services. OP-3 is a proprietary firm
 owned by Mr. Nayan Kumarpal Shah located in Pune and deals with
 domestic appliances and agricultural goods. OP-4 is a registered partnership
 firm located in Baramati with three partners namely Mr. Jawahar Motilal
 Shah, Mr. Abhay Motilal Shah (deceased) and Mr. Harshwardhan Motilal
 Shah . 29. The allegations in the information essentially center around the bids invited
 by OP-5 from eligible vendors for procurement of Picofall-cum-Sewing
 Machine (Multifunction) with Indian Standard Institute (ISI) mark for
 distribution amongst the people belonging to backward classes, women,
 and disabled persons living in the rural areas of Pune district under a
 scheme announced by the Social Welfare Department (SWD) of the
 Government of Maharashtra, vide e-tender No.1/2015-16 dated 07.11.2015. 30. At the outset, the Commission would deal with the role of OP-5 and its
 liability under the Act. The Commission while directing the DG to conduct
 an investigation, vide its order dated 22.03.2017, noted that "....other
 allegations raised by the Informant regarding the conduct of OP-5 in
 facilitating the bid rigging by OP-2 to OP-4 do not fall within the domain
 of competition law and the Informant may raise its grievance before the
 appropriate forum." 31. In this regard, the Informant in its response to the Investigation Report has
 stated that the Commission has the power to examine the role of OP-5 under
 the provisions of the Act. For the same, the Informant has relied on the
 observations of the Commission in its order dated 01.05.2018 in Case No.
 50 of 2015 titled Nagrik Chetna Manch And Fortified Security Solutions & Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 17 of 52 Others passed under Section 27 of the Act. The relevant extract of the order
 is as follows: 32. In this regard, the Commission is of the view that the plea raised by the
 Informant is untenable. No doubt the DG as well as the Commission have
 the power to examine the representatives of the procurer to understand and
 ascertain the tender design, tendering mechanism including the eligibility of
 the bidders in terms of tender conditions by requisitioning the relevant
 records. This is, however, not to suggest that the procurer itself could be
 proceeded against in an inquiry for violation of the provisions of the Act in
 respect of the tenders floated by it, where bid rigging is alleged to have taken
 place. Any lack of due diligence or non-compliance with the procurement
 procedure has to be dealt with administratively in accordance with the
 relevant and extant mechanism by appropriate authorities. Needless to add,
 in appropriate cases, the role of the procurer can also be examined within
 the purview of the Act for contravention of the provisions thereof. 33. It is observed that the Informant itself has not only alleged bid rigging by
 OPs in contravention of the provisions of Section 3(3) of the Act but has
 also prayed the Commission to hold the OPs in contravention of the said
 provisions. A bare reading of the provisions of Section 3(3) of the Act would
 show that only the entities engaged in identical or similar trade of goods or
 provision of services are covered within the purview thereof. It is not the
 case of the Informant that OP-5 was also engaged in the business of supply
 of Picofall-cum-Sewing Machine as was the case with OP-1 to OP-4.
 Therefore, any agreement or understanding or arrangement of OP-5 with
 OP-1 to OP-4, cannot be the subject matter of scheme envisaged under Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 18 of 52 Section 3(3) of the Act. The examination of the officials of the procurer can
 only supplement the investigation conducted by the DG and evidence
 collected against other opposite parties/ bidders in the matter. Therefore, the
 Commission is of the opinion that allegations of the Informant regarding the
 conduct of OP-5 as alleged in the Information do not fall within the purview
 of the Commission. 34. Before proceeding to analyse the allegations on merits, the Commission
 would deal with the submissions of OP-2 that the DG does not have the
 power to requisition call data records from the telecom service providers
 and requisitioning of such records and sharing of the same with other OPs
 is violative of the fundamental right to privacy enumerated under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Further, it was contended that the DG has not
 shared the original records with OPs including the communication to the
 telecom service providers requisitioning these records. The DG has also not
 stated the provision of law under which it was empowered to requisition
 such records. Therefore, OP-2 has requested that call data records should be
 rejected/ignored by the Commission. 35. Having considered the plea raised by OP-2, the Commission is of the
 considered opinion that the same is thoroughly misplaced. A bare reading
 of the provisions of Section 36 of the Act read with Section 41 thereof would
 reveal that for the purposes of discharging functions under the Act, the DG
 has been vested with the specified powers of Civil Courts as available under the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 which sufficiently enable and empower
 the DG to call for such records from the telecom service providers. Needless
 to add, collusive conducts such as bid rigging require investigators to seek
 such data as invariably the bidders would not leave any paper trail in order
 to minimise documentation to evade the process of law. 36. OP-2 has also averred that in order to find the location of OP-3 and OP-4,
 the DG has relied on Cell ID and address submitted by the telecom service Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 19 of 52 provider. However, as per OP-2, the said document cannot be considered as
 credible and reliable due to absence of electronic certificate as mandated by
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in plethora of judgements. This plea is without
 any basis as the relevant certificates have already been provided by the DG
 and are available on record. 37. OP-4 has further submitted that it sought to examine OP-5 and the
 Government Polytechnic Institute (GPI) Pune before the DG, however, the
 request was denied by giving baseless reasons. It has been submitted that
 OP-5 and GPI are material witnesses to extract the truth and their cross-
 examination is necessary for just adjudication of the matter. In this regard,
 the Commission summarily notes that the findings of the DG against OP-4
 are based on tender documents, CDRs, depositions besides the documents
 submitted by OP-4 itself and other OPs. In this backdrop, when nothing
 incriminating has been attributed to OP-4 based on the examination of the
 representatives of OP-5, the issue of seeking cross-examination of such
 deponent becomes infructuous. 38. OP-4 has also contended that during the cross examination of OP-1 by OP- 4, there were many questions which remained unanswered and OP-1 assured
 that same will be answered within a certain period. However, till date no
 such questions been have answered by OP-1. OP-4 has submitted that
 answers of such questions are important for fair adjudication of the matter.
 The Commission notes that OP-1 has in fact responded to these queries vide
 submissions dated 14.08.2019 and 22.08.2019 which were also provided to
 OP-4 as annexures to the Supplementary Investigation Report of the DG
 vide the Commission's letter dated 17.02.2020. 39. Having dealt with the above aspects, the Commission proceeds to examine
 whether the Opposite Parties (OP-1 to OP-4) indulged in bid-
 rigging/collusive bidding in respect of the Impugned Tender floated by OP- 5 in contravention of the provisions contained in Section 3(3)(d) read with Section 3(1) of the Act? Price Parallelism 40. To begin with, it would be apposite to examine the rates quoted by the
 bidders while participating in the Impugned Tender floated by OP-5. For
 felicity of reference, the same are excerpted below: 12,250/- and the tender was awarded to it. It has been submitted that if there
 had been any cartelisation amongst OP-1 to OP-4, OP-2 would never have
 reduced the price of the sewing machine and that too after finding out that
 there were only 3 bidders left in the tender who are the authorised dealers
 of OP-1 (who must have known that whosoever wins the bid, the benefit
 would be to OP-1). Therefore, OP-2 has averred that reduction of price at
 the stage of negotiation shows that there was no cartelisation in the tender
 and OP-2 did not charge any excessive prices over and above
 competitive/market price to earn "supra normal profits". OP-2 has also Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 21 of 52 justified its bid price on the basis of MRP of the product and the
 accompanying accessories and annual maintenance charges to be
 supplied/provided to OP-5. 42. OP-2 has further submitted that considering the quantity of products to be
 supplied, the said price difference between the price bids of the OP-2 to OP-
 4 makes huge difference at the last. It has been further submitted that OPs
 are located in Pune itself, and therefore the freight component, travel
 expenses, labour charges would have only small difference. OP-3 has also
 sought to justify the similar price on the basis of geographical location of all
 the OPs. 43. The Commission considered the aforesaid submissions of OP-2 and noted
 that the bid values quoted by these OPs in the Impugned Tender were very
 close to each other with difference of less than thirty rupees and it is highly
 unlikely that in normal market conditions, the prices quoted by 3 different
 bidders would be so close to each other. In a competitive bidding, it is
 expected of the bidders to quote their rates in a competitive and independent
 manner after taking into account their input costs and prevailing market
 conditions and the Act prohibits any anti-competitive agreement which
 manipulates the fair price discovery. 44. Some of the participating bidders claimed similar geographical location and
 the resulting similar overheads as a reason for quoting similar bid price. In
 this regard, it is observed that they have not been able to demonstrate/justify
 with any evidence, e.g. cost data, the miniscule difference in the price bid in
 the Impugned Tender. Similar price quotes, in the absence of any plausible
 justifications, in response to the Impugned Tender are indicative and
 suggestive of the fact that such similar price quotes/ differences may not be
 mere coincidences but may be an outcome of some agreement or
 understanding or arrangement amongst the participating bidders. No doubt,
 price parallelism per se may not be sufficient to establish collusion in itself, Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 22 of 52 and accordingly, the DG has proceeded to examine whether such parallel
 behaviour of the bidders in quoting almost similar bid prices in response to
 the Impugned Tender floated by Pune Zilla Parishad was an outcome of any
 concerted act. The Commission has perused the evidence collected by the
 DG in this regard and the submission of the parties thereon in the succeeding
 paras. 45. Before analysing the evidence gathered by the DG, the Commission deems
 it appropriate to deal with a contention raised by some of the OPs that on
 other occasions also, there was insignificant bid price difference in respect
 of the tenders floated by OP-5. In this regard, as pointed out above, mere
 price parallelism in itself may not be sufficient under the scheme of the Act
 to hold the parties in contravention, yet such behaviour may fall foul of the
 provisions of the Act, which prohibit bid rigging, if there are other factors
 and evidences available on record to show collusion amongst the bidders.
 Hence, the plea is of no consequence as the Commission has to assess entire
 material and evidence available on record, in addition to the parallel
 behaviour, before reaching any finding of contravention of the provisions of
 the Act by the parties. Payment and Refund of Tender Fee and the EMD for the Impugned Tender 46. The DG during its investigation has also collected evidence related to
 payment of tender fee and EMD (collectively referred to as, the 'Tender
 Charges') for the Impugned Tender. The DG has gathered evidence related
 to entire trail of movement of the funds for payment of the Tender Charges
 for the Impugned Tender on behalf of the three OPs, refund of the same to
 the unsuccessful bidders, payments from the bank account of OP-2, etc. 47. The DG's investigation has revealed that proprietor of M/s Steelfab
 Corporation, Mr. Nikhil Gandhi paid the Tender Charges (including bank
 charges) of Rs. 12,81,769/- each on behalf of OP-2 (on 27.11.2015) and OP- 3 (on 26.11.2015); whereas proprietor of M/s Steelfab, Mr. Nilesh Gandhi
 (brother of Mr. Nikhil Gandhi) paid the same on behalf of OP-4 on
 26.11.2015. Thus, the Commission notes that the payment of Tender
 Charges on behalf of the three OPs mentioned above was not sourced from
 their respective bank accounts but certain other parties bank accounts have
 been utilised for the payment of the said EMD and tender fee. In this regard,
 the Commission also observed that OP-2 transferred a sum of Rs.
 38,46,000/- to the bank account of M/s Steelfab Corporation on 26.11.2015
 apparently to facilitate the payment of Tender Charges on behalf of OP-2 to
 OP-4. This amount was sufficient to cover the Tender Charges for three bids
 to be submitted to Pune Zilla Parishad. 48. On 12.01.2016, Pune Zilla Parishad awarded the Impugned Tender to OP- 2. Thereafter, Pune Zilla Parishad refunded the EMD to the unsuccessful
 bidders. The analysis of the evidence on record indicates that on 07.03.2016,
 Rs.12,56,600 was refunded back by Pune Zilla Parishad to Mr. Nikhil
 Gandhi on account of OP-3 not being successful in the Impugned Tender.
 Further, Rs12,56,600 was refunded back by Pune Zilla Parishad to Mr.
 Nilesh Gandhi on account of OP-4 not being successful in the Impugned
 Tender. Thereafter, on 08.03.2016, the sum total of these two credits, i.e.
 Rs. 25,13,200/- was credited back to the account of OP-2 by Mr. Nikhil
 Gandhi. 49. The depositions of Mr. Nikhil Gandhi and Mr. Nilesh Gandhi show that the
 payment of Tender Charges by these two individuals were at the behest of
 Mr. Venkatesh Darak of OP-2 on behalf of OP-2 to OP-4. This entire
 sequence of events detailing the trail of money for the payment of Tender
 Charges and refund of EMD clearly shows that OP-2 arranged the funds for
 the payment of Tender Charges for the purpose of submitting three bids for
 the Impugned Tender, i.e. one for itself and the remaining two in the names
 of OP-3 and OP-4. This evidences the key role played by OP-2 in the entire Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 24 of 52 process of bid submission for the Impugned Tender on behalf of all three
 OPs. 50. OP-2 has stated that as per the general practice of tender filling in the area
 in question, the person in whose name the tender is being filled deposits the
 earnest amount. However, if such person is not able to make the payment
 depending on his e-procurement limit, then he insists OP-2 to make the
 payment in the beginning and later pay back to OP-2. It has been further
 claimed that e-procurement limit of OP-2 was only Rs. 5 lakh whereas Rs.
 12,56,000/- was required to be deposited for the Impugned Tender.
 Therefore, OP-2 approached Mr. Nikhil Gandhi for the same. OP-3 also in
 its submissions asserted that its e-procurement limit is only Rs. 3,00,000/-
 and thus it took help from OP-2 for the payment of tender fee and EMD. In
 this regard, the Commission is of the view that it is highly unlikely that one
 competitor would seek assistance from another for filling tenders without
 jeopardising his/her independence in submission of bids especially
 considering the financial interest involved. Rather such cooperation would
 facilitate collusion between competitors. It is also noted that OP-2 has
 claimed that tender filling services are available to everyone by paying
 necessary charges. However, except for bald assertions, none of the OPs
 including OP-2 have placed on record any evidence to establish such kind
 of financing arrangement between OP-2 to OP-4 and any financial charges
 that would have been paid to OP-2 for arranging the funds. OP-2 has also
 claimed in its submissions that such payments are paid back to OP-2 by the
 bidders using its services. However, in the present matter, neither OP-2 nor
 OP-3 has claimed to have received/paid back the Tender Charges to OP-2
 or provided any documentary evidence to that effect. It also seems highly
 improbable that OP-2 would make payment to the tune of Rs. 12,56,000
 each on behalf of OP-3 and OP-4 without any collateral security. Thus, this
 arrangement seems to be part of a broader understanding with each other to
 coordinate and cooperate in submitting bids for the tenders and harm the Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 25 of 52 process of competition. The argument put forth by OP-2 is nothing more
 than an afterthought to suppress the actual sequence of events. 51. OP-2 has claimed that it used to charge OP-3 and OP-4 in lump sum
 for tender filling as they are its regular clients. OP-2 was waiting for OP-3
 and OP-4 to give it more tenders to fill and then take the fee. In the absence
 of any evidence to this effect, this only seems to be an afterthought by OP-
 2 to somehow defend itself before the Commission. 52. In support of its arguments that it offers tender filling services on payment
 basis, OP-2 has provided two documents claiming its appointment as Tender
 Consultant by M/s Jai Khodiyar Industries and M/s Micro Industries. In
 relation to these documents, it is noted that none of these documents is dated.
 Moreover, it is interesting to note that these two documents though issued
 by separate entities are identical in language and thus make same
 grammatical/language error(s) e.g. "You will allowed the normal course of
 the Company's business publish any same tender", "Klassy will provide all
 the necessary information about upcoming tender through tale-
 calling/email", etc. It is further noted that both the appointments are claimed
 to be "... for a period of Twenty four months, beginning from 1/3/2015 to
 31/3/2017...". However, the said period is twenty-five months (i.e. from
 01.03.2015 to 31.03.2017). It appears that OP-2 has obtained these
 documents in support of its claim of Tender Consultant for the purpose of
 present proceedings and no reliance whatsoever can be placed thereon. Single IP Address 53. The DG in its investigation has also revealed that all the three bids of OP-2
 to OP-4 were submitted from a single IP address, i.e. 116.75.133.164. The
 evidence collected by the DG, in the form of confirmation from the Internet
 Service Providers, evidences the fact that the said IP address belong to OP-
 2 i.e. Klassy Computers. OP-2, in its deposition accepted the fact that his IP Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 26 of 52 address was used for filling the Impugned Tender on behalf of all the three
 OPs. 54. In this regard, OP-2 has stated that the DG Report did not take into
 consideration that OP-2 also works as a cybercafe and offers tender filling
 services which are available to public at large and anybody can use the same
 by paying the necessary charges. OP-3 in its submissions also asserted that
 he is weak in computers, and therefore procured the services of OP-2 to fill
 the technical envelop which includes many formalities and detailed
 procedure. As already stated, the Commission is of the view that it is highly
 unlikely that one competitor would seek assistance from another for filling
 tenders and such cooperation would facilitate collusion between
 competitors. Further, OP-2 has claimed that tender filling services are
 available to everyone by paying necessary charges. However, except for
 bald assertions, OP-2 and OP-3 have not placed on record any evidence to
 the effect that such charges have been paid to OP-2 for providing its services
 in relation to the Impugned Tender. 55. It has also been claimed that there was no condition which prohibited the
 bidders to use the same IP address under the terms and conditions of the
 Impugned Tender. The plea is thoroughly misconceived as any act or
 conduct on the part of the bidders which results in bid rigging or collusive
 bidding stands in violation of the provisions of the Act as the bidders are
 required to participate in the tender process in an independent and
 competitive manner. 56. It has also been submitted by OP-2 that 'technical envelope' of the bid was
 completed by its employees and the 'commercial envelop' was filled by the
 concerned OP itself. In the present matter, the commercial envelop was
 filled by OP-3 and OP-4 on 26.11.2015 and by OP-5 on 27.11.2015 by using
 the same cybercafé and thus same IP address was used to upload all the bids.
 In this regard, OP-2 has also relied on the judgement of the Hon'ble High Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 27 of 52 Court of Bombay in the case of S K Translines Private Limited v. The
 Maharashtra State, WP No. 3393 of 2016 wherein it was held that
 "....Merely a singular instance of a party filling in the tender from the same
 I.P. address as the other tenders would be too slender a consideration to
 come to a conclusion of the said person forming a cartel....'. OP-2 has also
 placed reliance on the judgement of Hon'ble Competition Appellate
 Tribunal in the case of Delhi Development Authority v. Shree Cement
 Limited , 2010 CTJ 17 (COMPAT) (MRTP) and the judgement of Hon'ble
 Supreme Court of India in the case of Union of India v. Hindustan
 Development Corporation , (1993) 3 SCC 499. The Commission is of the
 view that the said reliance of OP-2 to buttress its argument is misconceived
 as all the evidence unearthed during the investigation have to be assessed
 holistically and not in isolation to each other. Therefore, all the evidence
 collected by the DG, viz. usage of single IP address, price parallelism,
 submission of Tender Charges by OP-2, CDR analysis, close relationship
 between OPs, etc. have to be seen in conjunction with each other to
 determine existence of an agreement amongst OP-2 to OP-4, as detailed
 hereinabove and to be further discussed hereinafter. Call Data Record (CDR) 57. During the investigation, the DG has also obtained call data record of the
 interaction between OPs. The Commission also notes that CDRs are only
 corroborative evidence used by the DG to support its finding of bid-rigging
 by the OPs and the major evidence against the OPs in this regard is quoting
 of similar prices with a difference of few rupees for the Impugned Tender
 which is hard believe as a coincidence. CDRs are a plus factor which
 strengthen the finding arrived at against the OPs. They are not the sole but
 one of the several such plus factors being relied upon by the Commission to
 find contravention by the OPs. 58. The analysis of CDRs reveal that OP-2 and OP-3 were in constant touch
 with each other during each event of the Impugned Tender, i.e. date of Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 28 of 52 floating of the tender, pre-bid meeting, issuance of authorisation letters by
 OP-1, tender fee and bid submission date. Specifically, on 25.11.2015 (i.e.
 one day before submission of the bid of OP-3), a total of 19 calls of about
 90 minutes and on 26.11.2015 (i.e. on the date of submission of Tender
 Charges and the bid of OP-3), a total of 32 calls of about 158 minutes, were
 made between OP-2 and OP-3. It is also noted that on 26.11.2015, during
 the process of bid submission of OP-3, one call before submission of the bid
 and 2 calls immediately after submission of the bid are present in records. It
 is also noticed that after the tender fees and bids of OP-3 were submitted,
 Mr. Nayan Shah spoke with Mr. Venkatesh 19 more times. Further, on
 27.11.2015, when EMD and fee of OP-2 were submitted, a total of 16 calls
 of about 109 minutes were made between Mr. Nayan Shah and Mr.
 Venkatesh. The Commission considers this constant interaction between the
 two OPs as an important indicator and plus factor in the present matter about
 the existence of collusion between the OPs. 59. The investigation has also revealed that the interactions between the two
 OPs, i.e. Mr. Nayan Shah and Mr. Venkatesh had been continuing even at
 the stage of Investigation by the DG office. As per the deposition of Mr.
 Nayan Shah, both had communicated with each other just a day before the
 said deposition. He also accepted that he met Mr. Nikhil Gandhi in April
 2015 in Pune Zilla Parishad office and thereafter, he met Mr. Gandhi
 multiple times. 60. From the CDR analysis between Mr. Rahul Shah of OP-4 and Mr.
 Venkatesh of OP-2, it is noted that both were in continuous interaction with
 each other for a long period of time, even before 6 months of floating of the
 impugned tender and such interaction continued even after the closing of
 tender and thereafter. Mr. Rahul Shah in his deposition claimed that the
 conversation was with respect to its digital signatures lying with OP-2 for
 tenders for flour mills. In this regard, it is noted that it is highly improbable
 that these lengthy discussions at regular intervals aggregating to hundreds Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 29 of 52 of minutes are only with respect to issue of digital signatures. It seems that
 the two have far greater degree of interaction with each other. In this regard,
 it is important to note from the deposition of Mr. Venkatesh that both have
 been helping each other while filling multiple other tenders also. It is also
 noted that account of OP-4 has been used by OP-2 on few occasions for
 submitting tender fee and EMD for some of these other tenders also. Mr.
 Rahul Shah has also admitted paying EMD and tender fee in other tenders
 at the behest of Mr. Venkatesh. This goes on to establish that both these OPs
 have close relationship with each other and help each other in commercial
 matters. 61. The CDR analysis also reveals communication between Mr. Nayan Shah of
 OP-3 and Mr. Rahul Shah of OP-4. It also shows that the three OPs were
 interacting with each other in quick sessions on 26.11.2015, i.e. the day
 when the bids of OP-3 and OP-4 were submitted for the Impugned Tender. 62. OP-2 in its submissions has questioned the powers of the DG to requisition
 call data records which has already been dealt earlier. It has been further
 argued that even assuming that the DG has power to requisition call data
 records, it has erroneously arrived at pre-determined conclusions based on
 conjectures and incorrect analysis of the factual background. It has been
 claimed that since OP-2 operates as a cybercafe and offers tender filling
 services, it has to interact with its clients for filling technical envelope and
 other details. OP-2 has also averred that the calls made on 26.11.2015 (i.e.
 the date when the bid for OP-3 was submitted for the Impugned Tender),
 OP-2 and OP-3 interacted in relation to Baramati Tender also as OP-2 filled
 the 'technical envelop' of this tender on behalf of OP-2 for the consideration
 of nominal charges. OP-3 in its submission has claimed that it has paid an
 amount of Rs. 10,000 to OP-2 for its services. OP-3 has also reiterated
 similar arguments in its submissions and averred that filling of technical
 envelope by OP-2 not only in the Impugned Tender but in other tenders e.g.
 Baramati Tender resulted in frequent interactions between OP-2 and OP-3. In relation to this argument of OP-2 that it operates as a cybercafe and offers
 tender filling services, it has already been noted above that except for bald
 assertions, OP-2 has not placed on record any evidence to the effect that it
 was engaged for such services by OP-3/OP-4 in return for any charges or
 such charges were infact paid to OP-2 for its services. Again, the argument
 put forth by OP-2 is nothing more than an afterthought to suppress the actual
 sequence of events. 63. Though frequent interactions by themselves cannot be objected to, but when
 seen in the context of similar price bids and other factors/ circumstances
 discussed herein, such interactions amongst OPs provide them with
 opportunities to collude, which is absent in case of competitors who do not
 have such relationship. Thus the facts that OPs were in continuous contact
 with each other for business purposes and were having financial dealings
 amongst them have been considered by the Commission as a plus factor in
 the instant matter. Mobile location details of OP-3 64. Mr. Nayan Shah, in his deposition stated that he filled up the tender rate, i.e.
 the Bill of Quantity (BoQ) in the Impugned Tender and thereafter, the staff
 of OP-2 took over and completed the process. However, the DG's
 Investigation had found that Mr. Nayan Shah could not have been present
 on the premises of OP-2 during the filling up of the BoQ which is evident
 from call data records, which give his location at the point of time when the
 BoQ was being filled. From the call data records of Mr. Nayan Shah, the
 DG has noted that he had an interaction with Mr. Venkatesh at 16:40:49
 hours, that is, 4 minutes prior to the submission of the bid online. Thereafter,
 Mr. Nayan Shah had communicated with Mr. Venkatesh at 16:45:57 hours
 and thereafter at 16:46:44 hours, i.e. soon after of filling of the bid online of
 OP-3. In both the instances, the location of Mr. Nayan Shah was in the area
 where the office of OP-3 is located, which is situated at a distance of 8.7
 Kms from the office of OP-2. The DG has also noted that the estimated time Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 31 of 52 of travel by road could not be less than 30 minutes considering the density
 and congestion in that area of Pune. The DG has thus concluded that the
 claim made by Mr. Nayan Shah is not correct and that at the time of
 submission of the bid of OP-3, Mr. Nayan Shah was not available at the
 premises of OP-2. 65. In relation to above mentioned call records, OP-2 has claimed that during
 the submission of its bid on 26.11.2015, OP-3 left his mobile phone in his
 office and therefore, to confirm the OTP (one-time password) sent to the
 registered mobile number of OP-3 and thereafter, to confirm the bid
 submission, OP-3 called his number from the phone of OP-2. OP-3 again
 took same stand in its submissions before the Commission and averred that
 apart from location details, there is no evidence that OP-3 was not present
 in OP-2's office whereas, the depositions of OP-2 and OP-3 corroborate the
 presence of OP-3 in OP-2's office. In this regard, the Commission notes that
 apart from oral claims as to the presence of OP-3, OP-2 and OP-3 have not
 adduced any evidence as to the actual presence of OP-3 in the premises of
 OP-2 to fill the commercial envelop. Filling tenders from the same IP
 address raises suspicion of meeting of minds/collusion. Merely stating that
 the commercial bid was submitted by the bidder himself without providing
 any substantive evidence to that effect is not sufficient to remove the
 suspicion. On the other hand, the Commission considers the mobile location
 details indicating presence of OP-3 in his own premises during bid
 submission period as a substantive plus factor coupled with other evidence
 on record to hold that OP-2 and OP-3 had prior understanding and meeting
 of minds to rig the bids filed in response to the Impugned Tender. Role of OP-4 in the Impugned Tender 66. During the investigation, M/s Jawahar Brothers professed its non- involvement in the bidding for the Impugned Tender and filed an affidavit
 in that regard. To examine the submission of OP-4 and its role in the entire Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 32 of 52 tender process, the DG has collected various evidence in the form of
 depositions, call data record, etc. During the course of the investigation, Mr.
 Jawahar Motilal Shah was summoned by the DG who in turn nominated his
 son Mr. Rahul Shah in his place to appear before the Commission due to ill
 health. Mr. Jawahar Motilal Shah also submitted that his son Mr. Rahul
 Shah was well versed with the business activities of Jawahar Brothers and
 would be competent to do all acts, deeds and things as was necessary and
 on behalf of Mr. Jawahar Shah. He also permitted Mr. Rahul Shah to sign
 and execute and to appear before the Commission, on his behalf. He also
 gave him all the powers legally through a power of attorney dated
 23.11.2017. As per the records, Mr. Harshwardhan Motilal Shah also
 appointed Mr. Rahul Shah as his authorised agent as he was well versed
 with the Impugned Tender as also in dealing with OP-2 on behalf of OP-4
 for flour mill tender. 67. As already stated, Mr. Rahul Shah has claimed that OP-4 has never
 participated in the Impugned Tender and stated that it did not attend the pre-
 bid meeting, did not pay the tender fee, etc. and its documents/digital
 signatures were misused by OP-2 for submitting bid for the Impugned
 Tender. In this regard, it is noted from the tender filling process as explained
 to the DG during the course of investigation, that at the time when the bid
 is uploaded, a message (SMS) would go to the registered mobile number of
 the bidder. In the case of OP-4, the registered mobile number for the
 Impugned Tender was that of Mr. Rahul Shah. On 26.11.2015, at 17:12
 hours the bid of Jawahar Brothers for the Impugned Tender was filled up
 and as per the CDR of Mr. Rahul Shah, he received an SMS from GEPMAH
 (the sender identification of Government e-procurement Maharashtra) at
 17:13 hours for the Impugned Tender. It is also noted that just after the
 filling up of another tender 10 2015_RDPUN_81219_1 for flour mill
 ('Flour Mill Tender') at 23:12 hours on the same day, Mr. Rahul Shah
 received another SMS at 23:13 hours from the same automatic message
 system, i.e. GEPMAH. OP-4 has not contested submission of bid in the said Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 33 of 52 tender. In this regard, Mr. Rahul Shah admitted having received the
 messages but claimed that similar formats of auto-generated SMS received
 from GEPMAH caused confusion and he was under the impression that the
 SMSs received pertained to Flour Mill Tender. However, this claim of Mr.
 Rahul Shah stands negated as the times of submission of the bids for the two
 tenders on 26.11.2015 were starkly different, and therefore the times for
 receipt of SMS are also different (as detailed above). Therefore, when the
 Flour Mill Tender was submitted at 23:12 hours, it is not understood as to
 how Mr. Rahul Shah could have presumed confirmation SMS received at
 17:13 hours was in respect of this tender. An SMS notification on the
 registered mobile number of the bidder is a clear knowledge and intimation.
 In view of foregoing, the plea of Mr. Rahul Shah and thus OP-4 claiming
 confusion and lack of knowledge in respect of filling of Impugned Tender,
 stands falsified and rejected. 68. It has also been claimed by OP-4 that tender form submitted to OP-5 on
 behalf of OP-4 were in the name of 'Jawahar Brothers & Agency' whereas
 no such firm is in existence and the firm of OP-4 is registered in the name
 of 'Jawahar Brothers'. As per OP-4, this strengthen its stand that it is a
 victim of fraud and forgery. In this regard, the Commission has perused the
 stock availability certificate submitted by OP-4 while responding to first
 Investigation report and noted that the same has been issued on the letter
 head of Jawahar Brothers & Agency which is claimed by OP-4 as non-
 existent. If the case of OP-4 is that there is no entity by the name of Jawahar
 Brothers & Agency, it is not understood as to how Mr. Rahul Shah had
 submitted the said stock certificate with the Commission while responding
 to the Investigation Report. This inconsistency was posed before Mr. Rahul
 Shah during his cross examination by OP-1; however, he could not provide
 any plausible justification for the same. 69. It is further noted that OP-4 while responding to first Investigation Report
 stated that "...the tender specifies the condition that all the bidders have to Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 34 of 52 submit a certificate stating that sufficient stock is available with the tender
 participants. The OP-4 had handed over such certificate with respect of
 Flour Mill Tender to OP2. Unfortunately same was uploaded by OP2 for
 Sewing Machine Tender". However, while responding to Supplementary
 Investigation Report, OP-4 changed its submission to "stock availability
 certificate was created by OP-2 on behalf of OP-4 for flour mill tender
 which was to be submitted next day after impugned tender i.e. on 27.11.2015
 and mistakenly OP-2 utilized same in respect of impugned tender."
 (emphasis supplied) 70. The Commission also notes that for the Impugned Tender, the email ID
 mentioned in the bid of OP-4 was [email protected] . Mr. Rahul
 Shah, during his deposition disassociated himself from the said email ID.
 However, the DG during the course of examination of the details of
 Baramati Tender (as explained in subsequent paragraphs) received from
 Block Development Officer, Baramati found that the same email ID was
 quoted in that tender. This tender was in fact awarded to OP-4. Thus, it is
 noted that this claim of Mr. Rahul Shah, who is otherwise well versed with
 the business activities of OP-4, is misconceived and erroneous. 71. Mr. Rahul Shah also claimed that Mr. Venkatesh was not returning the
 digital signatures of OP-4 and also cheated him in Flour Mill Tender in
 November 2015. It is therefore surprising that despite this, OP-4 continued
 its business relationship in subsequent tender (e.g., Satara Tender in March
 2016). 72. It is also noted and as detailed in subsequent paras that Mr. Rahul Shah
 admitted cooperation with OP-2 in other tenders wherein he paid tender fee
 on behalf of all the bidders. Based on the same, the Commission notes that
 OP-4 has not come to the Commission with clean hands as OP-2 and OP-4
 are close business associates and are colluding in various Government
 tenders to harm the competitive process. In view of the foregoing and Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 35 of 52 considering all the evidence holistically (as adumbrated above and in
 succeeding paragraphs), the Commission is of the view that the argument of
 OP-4 that it was not aware of the submission of its bid in the Impugned
 Tender is misconceived and thus liable to be rejected. Mr. Rahul Shah and
 thus, OP-4 has played an active role in rigging the bids in the Impugned
 Tender. Close Coordination in other Tenders 73. The Informant had also referred to another tender floated by OP-5 in its
 information filed u/s 19(1)(a) of the Act, which is tender bearing no. ID
 2016_RDPUN_148014_1 for supply of sewing machines, floated in August
 2016. The DG, in its investigation, also examined the said tender and it is
 noted that there were six participants in this tender, namely OP-1, OP-2, OP-
 3, OP-4, M/s Sunil Traders, and Suttraway Engg. Works Pvt. Ltd. The
 investigation has revealed that the payment of the EMD as well as the tender
 fee for this tender also has been made by OP-2 not only for itself but also
 for three other bidders, namely M/s Sunil Traders, OP-1, and OP-3. Mr.
 Venkatesh of OP-2, in his deposition admitted having paid the tender fee
 and the EMD on behalf of other OPs. 74. The DG has also analysed the coordination between OPs in two other
 tenders. In relation to submission of tender fee and EMD for another tender
 floated by OP-5 for supply of flour mills, bearing ID
 2015_RDPUN_84469_1 (Baramati Tender), Mr. Rahul Shah in his
 deposition admitted that he made three payments at the behest of Mr.
 Venkatesh (OP-2) in December 2015. His account was used to make the
 said payments on behalf of OP-2 to OP-4 and the said tender was awarded
 to OP-4. Though, Mr. Rahul Shah claimed ignorance as to the identity of
 other two bidders but this goes on to show close relationship between OP-2
 to OP-4. He agreed to allow his account to be used for payment of tender
 fee and EMD for his supposed competitors at the request of Mr. Venkatesh. As per the CDR analysis, both OP-2 and OP-4 exchanged many calls on the
 same day when tender fee and EMD were paid for Baramati Tender. The
 said interaction was admitted by Mr. Rahul Shah in his deposition. The
 Commission also notes this is the same modus operandi as followed by Mr.
 Venkatesh in respect of the Impugned Tender. Mr. Rahul Shah also admitted
 that he made three payments to ensure that he wins the Baramati Tender and
 Mr. Venkatesh promised that he would fill up L1 bid in his name. 75. During the course of Investigation, the DG also examined another tender
 floated by a Government Agency of Satara bearing 10 2016_SATAR_
 101854_1 (Satara Tender) in March 2016. This tender was for supply of
 fully automatic box type domestic flour mill and there were four bidders,
 three of whom were again OP-2 to OP-4 and the fourth bidder was M/s Om
 Enterprises who could not qualify the technical bid stage. For this tender
 also, the tender fees as well as EMD were paid by Mr. Rahul Shah on behalf
 of all three OPs. 76. It is interesting to note that while replying to Supplementary Investigation
 Report, OP-4 has contended that "OP-4 was unaware of Satara tender, and
 never filled it of its own, its OP-2 who has submitted satara tender by
 misusing digital key of OP-4 and other documents, the same tender was
 given to OP-2." Whereas, during deposition, Mr. Rahul Shah admitted
 paying tender amount of Rs. 40,600/- not only for himself but also for two
 other bidders for Satara Tender. Not only that, he accepted having made a
 mistake by doing so. He also stated that "I was told that unless three bids
 are received the tender would be cancelled. To ensure tender was not
 cancelled I did this". This clearly indicates that OP-4 is trying to mislead
 the proceedings. 77. OP-2 has contended that the DG in its supplementary report rather than
 connecting the collusion between OP-1 and OP-2 in tender in question
 focused on the subsequent tenders. In this regard, the Commission notes that Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 37 of 52 there is rarely direct evidence of action in concert and in such situations, the
 Commission has to determine whether those involved in such dealings had
 some form of understanding and were acting in co-operation with each
 other. In most cases, the existence of an anti-competitive practice or
 agreement must be inferred from a number of coincidences and indicia,
 which, taken together, may in the absence of another plausible explanation,
 constitute evidence of an infringement of the competition rules. In the
 present case, it is important to look at the conduct of the OPs in other tenders
 as well to infer the existence of any agreement in relation to the Impugned
 Tender. Modus of a cartel is not a one-time affair; rather, people who
 cartelise, pursue their anti-competitive agenda through various means,
 either simultaneously or one followed by the other. They may meet to decide
 their agenda for cooperation followed by interactions, telephonic or
 otherwise, regarding terms and modus of cooperation and, later, monitor
 each other to ensure compliance of their decision. Thus, there is merit in the
 DG relying upon the cooperation exhibited by OPs in other tenders also.
 Therefore, the contention of OP-2 is misconceived and must be rejected. Role of OP-1 in the Impugned Tender 78. The Informant has alleged that OP-1 is also part of the cartel and rigged the
 bids in the Impugned Tender. Accordingly, the DG has also investigated its
 role in the Impugned Tender and concluded that OP-1 is also a part of the
 cartel. 79. As a preliminary objection, OP-1 has submitted that it did not bid in the
 Impugned Tender floated by OP-5 in November 2015 and the second tender
 floated by OP-5 in August 2016 (in which OP-1 submitted its bid) was
 cancelled without opening. Hence, OP-1 was not at the same level as that of
 other bidders, i.e. OP-2 to OP-4 and thus, there is no question of any cartel
 or bid rigging or collusive bidding by OP-1 within the meaning of the Act.
 In this regard, it is noted that though OP-1 did not participate in the Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 38 of 52 Impugned Tender as a bidder, Mr. Sanjeev Thakur of OP-1, during his
 deposition, admitted that he attended the pre-bid meeting of the Impugned
 Tender on 17.11.2015 but could not participate in the tender due to some
 technical reasons and thus, could not transfer the EMD amount on time.
 Thus, OP-1 had every intention to participate in the Impugned Tender but
 could not do so due to a technical reason. Further, as admitted, OP-1
 participated and submitted its bid for tender ID 2016_RDPUN_148014_1
 for supply of the same product, i.e. sewing machine floated by OP-5 in
 August 2016, wherein OP-2 to OP-4 also submitted their respective bids.
 Merely because OP-1 could not participate in the Impugned Tender due to
 a technical reason is not sufficient to hold it at a different level than the other
 OPs. In view of these admitted facts, the contention of OP-1 that it was not
 placed at the same level as that of OP-2 to OP-4, is misconceived and
 deserves to be rejected. 80. The DG in his report has noted that OP-1 issued authorisation letters to OP- 2 to OP-4 in relation to the Impugned Tender which became the foundation
 for the technical acceptance of their bids by OP-5. The DG has examined
 the procedure adopted by OP-1 for issuing authorisation letters to the
 bidders and noted that it did not carry out due diligence before issuing
 authorisation letters to OP-2 to OP-4 for the Impugned Tender and further,
 these authorisation letters of all three OPs were handed over by OP-1 to OP- 2. The DG, on the basis of other evidence, also noted that Mr. Sanjeev
 Thakur and Mr. Venkatesh share close relationship with each other. In view
 of the foregoing, the DG concluded that there was a meeting of minds and
 coordination among the key officials of OP-1, OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 in
 relation to the Impugned Tender. 81. OP-1 in its response has submitted that authorisation letters were issued by
 OP-1 to eligible entities which were found suitable and fulfilling OP-1's
 criteria for participation in tenders floated by OP-5. It has also been
 submitted that terms offered by OP-1 were delivery against advance Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 39 of 52 payment and hence there was no need for conducting any detailed
 background check. OP-1 has further averred that no prudent businessman
 will do any background check of any person who approaches him for
 purchase of his products against advance payment. In view of the foregoing,
 OP-1 has claimed that in no circumstances, absence of supporting
 documents can lead to inference of collusive conduct on part of OP-1. 82. The DG also noted that authorisation letters for OP-3 and OP-4 were sent
 directly to OP-2 by OP-1, and therefore the same is indicative of meeting of
 minds. However, the investigation has not revealed any coherent evidence
 which could substantiate the same. Moreover, it is also noted that OP-1 also
 forwarded authorisation letters in favour of OP-2/ OP-3/ OP-4 to OP-5 vide
 its email dated 27.11.2015. The DG also made certain other observations
 like alteration in the prescribed format of the authorisation letter issued by
 OP-1 as a marketer and not as a manufacturer, OP-1 in this regard, has
 submitted that such change in authorisation letter was done to better
 describe OP-1. The DG also stated that OP-1 was the only party who could
 have supplied sewing machines as per OP-5's specifications. The
 Commission does not find this observation relevant for the purpose of
 determining of issues at hand. 83. Mr. Sanjeev Thakur of OP-1, in his deposition, also admitted that OP-2
 made payment towards tender fee and EMD for OP-1 in Tender
 2016_RDPUN_148014_1 for supply of sewing machine floated in August
 2016. He also submitted that OP-1 was facing technical issues over portal
 of local Authority, Pune in respect of deposition of EMD in 2016, so the
 EMD on behalf of OP-1 was deposited by its dealer, i.e. OP-2. In its
 submissions, OP-1 has reiterated the same and stated that due to certain
 firewalls in the computer systems of OP-1, the bid for this tender could not
 be uploaded and/or fee could not be paid. The investigation has also
 revealed that OP-2 has made payment towards tender fee and EMD for OP-
 1 on 2 occasions (as admitted by OP-1). The DG observed that OP-1 did not Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 40 of 52 take any corrective measures to overcome a problem which was hindering
 it from filing bids and thus made an inference against OP-1. In this regard,
 OP-1 has contended that "...The business of UIL through Tenders business
 in sewing machines in comparison to total turnover of UIL was negligible
 that it was not prudent to remove firewalls and security checks.
 Removing the security checks and firewalls for such negligible business
 was not a prudent trade-off and therefore the same were not changed..." 84. In relation to these payments, the DG has noted that OP-1 was not able to
 explain how the Tender fee and charges levied by the bank were paid by it
 to OP-2 as there is an amount of Rs. 3,300 which, though, miniscule was
 not refunded into the account of OP-2 and which had to be borne by him.
 This, as per DG, bolsters the fact that there was an understanding between
 OP-1 and OP-2. In this regard, OP-1 has responded that the amount of
 Tender fees, bank charges and expenses were paid by it by way of a credit
 note of Rs. 5,211/- on 31.03.2017 in trade account of OP-2 maintained with
 OP-1. 85. The DG has also noted that OP-1 has undertaken responsibility on behalf of
 bidders on the Impugned Tender even after warranty period of the sewing
 machines. The DG has claimed that by issuing such authorisations in favour
 of the bidders who are found to have no experience in the field of sewing,
 OP-1 has tied itself with Pune Zilla Parishad by taking onerous
 responsibility of unlimited duration. The DG has thus concluded that entire
 exercise was an outcome of collusive conduct between OP-1 and other
 bidders. In this regard, OP-1 has submitted that it is common public
 knowledge that manufacturer of consumer goods always provides after sales
 services and support to the ultimate consumer and not the person selling or
 supplying the same. In relation to the observation of the DG that bidders did
 not have prior experience of sewing machines, OP-1 has claimed that in the
 business of trading of consumer goods, the trader need not have any prior
 experience of the particular product as he is never called to provide after Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 41 of 52 sales services which is the matter entirely between manufacturer and the
 ultimate consumer. 86. The DG also noted that OP-1 has been the main beneficiary for the
 Impugned Tender and there has been complete alignment of the interest of
 OP-1 with the bidders concerned particularly when the supplies shall be
 sourced by the winning bidder from OP-1 itself. In this regard, OP-1 has
 submitted that said factor is of no consequence as in every supply of goods,
 the manufacturer/ supplier is always the beneficiary. 87. Another factor relied upon by the DG is the close association between Mr.
 Thakur of OP-1 and Mr. Venkatesh of OP-2. In this regard, OP-1 has
 submitted that given the fact that OP-2 is an authorised dealer of OP-1, the
 regular interaction between them is not sufficient to presume bid-rigging or
 collusion between the parties. Since OP-2 was awarded the Impugned
 Tender, there was a need of interaction between two OPs. 88. Having considered the investigation report(s) and the response of OP-1
 thereon, the Commission is of the considered opinion that the circumstances
 and evidence collected and collated by the DG to hold OP-1 in contravention
 of the provisions of the Act in relating to the Impugned Tender, are not
 sufficient and tenable. Mere absence of proper due diligence and
 verification by a manufacturer before issuing authorisation letters, cannot,
 in itself, be a ground to hold OP-1 liable for contravention of the provisions
 of the Act. Further, the "personal" relationships between employee of OP-1
 and proprietor of OP-2, as brought out by the DG to establish contravention,
 are wholly extraneous and unwarranted. There is not sufficient evidence
 brought on record by the investigation wherefrom contravention of OP-1
 can be established for bid rigging in respect of the Impugned Tender. Conclusion 89. Definition of an 'agreement' as given in Section 2(b) of the Act requires,
 inter alia, any arrangement or understanding or action in concert whether or
 not formal or in writing or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings.
 The definition, being inclusive and not exhaustive, is a wide one. An
 understanding may be tacit and the definition under Section 2(b) of the Act
 covers even those situations where the parties act on the basis of a nod or a
 wink. There is rarely direct evidence of action in concert and in such
 situations, the Commission has to determine whether those involved in such
 dealings had some form of understanding and were acting in co-operation
 with each other. In light of the definition of the term 'agreement', the
 Commission has to assess the evidence on the basis of preponderance of
 probabilities. 90. Further, since the prohibition on participating in anti-competitive
 agreements and bid rigging and the penalties which the infringers may incur
 are well known, it is normal for such practices and agreements to take place
 in a clandestine fashion, for meetings to be held in secret, and for associated
 documentation to be reduced to a minimum. The Commission in this regard
 notes that, in respect of cases concerning cartels which are hidden or secret,
 there is little, or no documentary evidence and evidence may be quite
 fragmentary. The evidence may also be wholly circumstantial. It is
 therefore, often necessary to reconstitute certain details by deduction. In
 most cases, the existence of an anti-competitive practice or agreement must
 be inferred from a number of coincidences and indicia, which, taken
 together, may in the absence of another plausible explanation, constitute
 evidence of an infringement of the competition rules. In the present case, as
 detailed earlier, the DG has demonstrated a parallel conduct in quoting
 similar price by OP-2 to OP-4 through a detailed analysis of the Impugned
 Tender. Further, the DG supported such behaviour with various plus factors,
 as analysed hereinabove in this order. 91. Applying the aforesaid legal test to the evidence detailed in the present
 case and on a holistic consideration of the above factors, the Commission
 concludes that quoting of bid prices which are very close to each other with
 difference of just a few rupees by OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 for the Impugned
 Tender is not a mere coincidence but a result of consensus/ understanding
 amongst OP-2 to OP-4. The Commission also notes that when seen in
 isolation, none of the above discussed factors may be conclusive proof to
 indicate collusion amongst OP-2 to OP-4 but a holistic assessment of bid
 prices of OP-2 to OP-4 coupled with the factors discussed above is
 conclusive of an agreement amongst OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 to fix price,
 resulting in rigging the bids in the Impugned Tender of OP-5. In relation to
 OP-1, the Commission is of the view that the evidence on record is not
 sufficient to conclude that OP-1 was involved in the agreement between OP-
 2 to OP-4 to rig the bids in the Impugned Tender. 92. Thus, once an 'agreement' is established in terms of the definition of this
 term as given in Section 2(b) of the Act and further such agreement is found
 to be established in respect of the specified clauses of Section 3(3) of the
 Act, then by virtue of the statutory presumption provided thereunder, such
 agreement is presumed to have an appreciable adverse effect on
 competition. No doubt, such presumption is rebuttable, and the parties are
 at liberty to rebut such presumption. 93. To sum up, Section 3(1) of the Act proscribes anti-competitive agreements
 as specified therein and further Section 3(2) thereof declares such
 agreements to be void. Furthermore, by virtue of the provisions contained
 in Section 3(3) , any agreement which (a) directly or indirectly determines
 purchase or sale prices; or (b) limits or controls production, supply, markets,
 technical development, investment or provision of services; or (c) shares the
 market or source of production or provision of services by way of allocation
 of geographical area of market, or type of goods or services, or number of Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 44 of 52 customers in the market or any other similar way; or (d) directly or indirectly
 results in bid rigging or collusive bidding, is presumed to have an
 appreciable adverse effect on competition. 94. In this regard, one of the OPs has contended that even assuming that there
 was a cartel in the present matter, it cannot be presumed to have an effect
 on the competition in the market or affect the consumers. In relation to this
 contention, it is important to note the ratio set by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 of India in the matter of Rajasthan Cylinders and Containers Ltd. v. Union
 of India and Others , 2018 (13) SCALE 493 wherein it was held that the
 agreements of nature mentioned in sub-section (3) are presumed to have an
 appreciable effect and, no further exercise is needed by the CCI once a
 finding is arrived at that a particular agreement fell in any of the aforesaid
 four categories. The relevant excerpts of the Hon'ble Supreme court
 decision in Rajasthan Cylinders (supra), are as follows: 95. The instant matter pertains to bid rigging in respect of the tender floated by
 OP-5. Since bid rigging by OP-2 to OP-4 in the Impugned Tender stands
 established, the statutory presumption of appreciable adverse effect on
 competition (AAEC) automatically follows. The Commission notes that
 cartelisation including bidrigging is a pernicious form of competition law
 contravention. Any party willing to advance justification has to give proper
 reasoning with clear and cogent evidence for the same. Vague assertions
 would not help such parties to evade the responsibility cast upon them under
 the provisions of Section 3 of the Act. 96. OP-2 has contended that there was no AAEC by comparing the price quoted
 in the Impugned Tender with the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) of the
 Picofall-cum-Sewing Machine in the market along with the accessories to
 be supplied to OP-5 or for that matter with the price in the open market. It
 has been claimed that after balancing the interest of the consumer and his
 nominal profit as a common businessman, OP-2 was bound to sell one
 Picofall-cum-Sewing Machine @ Rs. 12,250/- that too below MRP
 otherwise it would have incurred him loss. 97. In the present matter, OP-5 being a government body, has continuous
 requirement of procuring products for social welfare purpose, which it
 procures through tendering process only. Under these circumstances, the
 collusion to fix prices by rigging the bids in the Impugned Tender would
 have an adverse impact on the price discovery process and the price paid by
 OP-5. Such conduct in public procurements, besides defeating the tendering
 process, has an adverse impact on the exchequer and is a brazen defiance of
 the responsibility cast under the Act. In view of the above, the Commission
 finds the contentions of OPs concerning absence of appreciable adverse Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 46 of 52 effect on competition misconceived and are thus, rejected. By simply
 comparing the price quoted in the Impugned Tender with the MRP of the
 product under consideration, the parties cannot rebut the statutory
 presumption of AAEC as specified under the provisions of the Act. 98. It has also been contended by OP-2 that OP-5 had the right to reject the bid
 and thus, anything done by OP-5 cannot be considered as an act of OP-2. In
 this regard, reliance has been placed on the decision of the Hon'ble
 Competition Appellate Tribunal in the case of Escorts Ltd v. CCI, Appeals
 Nos. 13, 15 and 20 2015 decided on December 2015, 2016 CompLR
 (ComAT). The Commission notes that the observations of the Hon'ble
 Competition Appellate Tribunal in that case are not applicable in the present
 matter as the Commission is neither making any observation in relation to
 the conduct of OP-5 nor ascribing the conduct of OP-5 on to OP-2. 99. The Commission also notes that rebuttal of presumption of AAEC can be
 made by the parties taking recourse to all or any of the factors provided
 under Section 19 (3) of the Act. In the present matter, none of the parties
 has been able to demonstrate before the Commission, as to how their
 impugned conduct resulted into any (i) accrual of benefits to consumers; (ii)
 improvements in production or distribution of goods or provision of
 services; or (iii) promotion of technical, scientific, and economic
 development by means of production or distribution of goods or provision
 of services, in terms of Section 19 (3) of the Act. 100. In view of the above, the Commission holds that the parties are unable to
 rebut the presumption of AAEC in the matter and, therefore, the
 Commission finds the agreement amongst OP-2 to OP-4 to rig bids in the
 Impugned Tender floated by OP-5, for procurement of Picofall-cum-Sewing
 Machine, to be in contravention of the provisions of Section 3(1) read with Section 3(3)(d) of the Act. 101. Having found OP-2 to OP-4 to be in contravention of Section 3(1) read with Section 3(3)(d) of the Act, the next issue to be determined is whether their
 office bearers identified by the DG are responsible under Section 48 of the
 Act. It is noted that OP-2 and OP-3 are sole proprietorship concerns whereas
 OP-4 is a partnership firm and accordingly, the DG has identified the
 following individuals of OP-4, responsible under Section 48 of the Act: (i)
 Mr. Jawahar Motilal Shah, Partner, (ii) Mr. Harshwardhan Motilal Shah,
 Partner, (iii) Mr. Abhay, Partner (since deceased) and (iv) Mr. Rahul Shah. 102. Mr. Jawahar Motilal Shah, during investigation, has informed that his son
 Mr. Rahul Shah has been well versed with the business activities of OP-4.
 The DG has found Mr. Rahul Shah to be not only actively involved in the
 activities of OP-4 but also fully conversant with the tendering work
 undertaken by OP-4. The Commission notes that both the partners of OP-4,
 i.e. Mr. Jawahar Motilal Shah and Mr. Harshwardhan Motilal Shah cannot
 escape their liability under Section 48(1) of the Act merely by identifying
 Mr. Rahul Shah as the person conversant with the tendering work
 undertaken by OP-4. Therefore, the Commission agrees with the findings of
 the DG to hold Mr. Jawahar Motilal Shah, Partner of OP-4, and Mr.
 Harshwardhan Motilal Shah, Partner of OP-4 in terms of Section 48(1) of
 the Act and Mr. Rahul Shah of OP-4 in terms of Section 48(2) of the Act,
 for the impugned conduct of OP-4, which is found herein above to be in
 contravention of the provisions of Section 3 (3) (d) read with Section 3 (1) of the Act. 103. In view of the above, the Commission passes the following: 104. The Commission, in terms of Section 27 (a) of the Act, directs OP-2 to OP- 4 and the individuals of OP-4, as mentioned above, who have been held
 liable in terms of the provisions of Section 48 of the Act, to cease and desist
 in future from indulging in practices which have been found in the present Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 48 of 52 order to be in contravention of the provisions of Section 3 of the Act, as
 detailed in the earlier part of the present order. 105. So far as imposition of monetary penalty is concerned, it would be apposite
 to refer to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Excel Crop
 Care Limited v. Competition Commission of India & Anr., Civil Appeal No.
 2480 of 2014 decided on 08.05.2017. One of the issues which fell for
 consideration before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in this case was as to
 whether penalty under Section 27(b) of the Act should be imposed on total/
 entire turnover of the offending company or only on "relevant turnover", i.e.
 relating to the product in question? 106. After referring to the statutory scheme as engrafted in Section 27 of the Act
 and analysing the case law at length, the Hon'ble Supreme Court opined that
 adopting the criteria of 'relevant turnover' for the purpose of imposition of
 penalty will be more in tune with ethos of the Act and the legal principles
 which surround matters pertaining to imposition of penalties. While
 reaching this conclusion, the Hon'ble Supreme Court recorded the following
 reasons: 107. Thus, the starting point of determination of appropriate penalty should be to
 determine relevant turnover, and thereafter to calculate appropriate
 percentage of penalty based on facts and circumstances of the case. 108. Coming to the facts of the present case, the Commission notes that the
 infringing anti-competitive conduct of the parties pertained to supply of
 Picofall-cum-Sewing machines. OP-2 has provided details of revenue
 generated from supply of such machines in respect of the relevant period.
 At the same time, it is observed that OP-3 has submitted that it did not have
 any revenue from supply of Picofall-cum-Sewing machines during 2015-16
 to 2017-18. OP-4 has provided the financial statements as sought for by the
 Commission, but it has not provided any separate details of revenue
 generated from supply of such machines, as directed by the Commission.
 Having considered these aspects and the larger public policy objectives of
 the Act, the Commission is of the considered view that, no doubt, the penalty
 has to be imposed on the infringing parties by taking the relevant turnover
 into account as a starting point, yet, it cannot be overlooked that bid-rigging
 takes place in myriad and diverse forms of manipulation where one or the
 other bidder would be merely providing cover and as such would have no
 revenue from the product under consideration. For example, bid
 suppression, cover bid and bid rotation are common stratagem deployed by
 the collusive bidders to rig the bids particularly in government tenders. In
 such scenarios, there would be no revenue from sale or supply of the
 concerned product so far as the bidders who have chosen to submit cover
 bids. To allow such parties to walk free without incurring any monetary
 penalty for their anti-competitive conduct would not only stultify the
 Parliamentary intent in providing deterrence through penalties against such
 behaviour but would also run contrary to the underlying spirit of the
 judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Excel Crop Case
 (supra) which recognized the need for proportionality in modulating
 penalties in case of multi-product companies by taking relevant revenue into
 account. The present is not such case as the bidders who rigged the bids are
 essentially traders/service providers and cannot be as such considered as
 multi product companies. Taking such a pedantic interpretation would
 provide a virtual free run to potential bidders who participate in government Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 50 of 52 tenders and an effective immunity against any antitrust action for their anti-
 competitive behaviour. This cannot be the purport or intent either of the
 Parliament or the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in laying down the
 parameters and perimeter for imposition of monetary penalty upon the
 contravening parties. Thus, while taking revenue from supply of Picofall-
 cum-Sewing machines would be a guiding factor for the Commission, it
 cannot be the inhibiting factor in letting the bidders go scot free, who acted
 as conduits in the larger civil conspiracy to rig the tenders floated for welfare
 schemes of the State. 109. The Commission now proceeds to decide the appropriate quantum of the
 penalty. 110. It may be noted that the twin objectives behind imposition of penalties are: Proportionality achieves balancing between two competing interests: harm
 caused to the society by the infringer which gives justification for penalizing
 the infringer, on the one hand, and the right of the infringer in not suffering
 the punishment which may be disproportionate to the seriousness of the Act,
 on the other. 111. The Commission notes that the infringing OPs have rigged the bids in
 respect of procurement of sewing machines which were to be distributed for
 social welfare objectives, and this itself compels the Commission to take
 serious note of the infringement. At the same time, the Commission is also
 not oblivious of the fact that these OPs are sole proprietorship concerns and Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 51 of 52 partnership firm. The Commission has also considered the revenue
 generated from the supply of such machines and for the reasons mentioned
 in para 108, the larger goal of swift market correction would be met if a
 penalty of Rs. 10,00,000/- (Rs. Ten Lakh only) is imposed upon each of the
 infringing OPs, i.e. OP-2 to OP-4. It is ordered accordingly. Further, a
 penalty of Rs. 10,000/- (Rs. Ten Thousand only) is imposed upon each of
 the individuals of OP-4 as identified by the DG in terms of the provisions
 of Section 48 of the Act. OP-2 and OP-3, being sole proprietorship concerns,
 no separate penalty is being imposed upon their respective proprietors. 112. Accordingly, the Commission imposes penalties as detailed in the preceding
 para, for the impugned conduct which has been found to be in contravention
 of the provisions of Section 3 of the Act, as detailed in the order. 113. The Commission directs these OPs and the individuals liable under Section
 48 of the Act to deposit the penalty amount within 60 days from the receipt
 of this order. 114. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the parties, accordingly. Sd/- (Ashok Kumar Gupta)
 Chairperson

 Sd/- (Sangeeta Verma)
 Member

 Sd/- (Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi)
 Member
 New Delhi
 Date: 17 / 03 /2021 Case No. 90 of 2016 Page 52 of 52