1. Prayer in this petition, filed under Section 483 of the Bharatiya

Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, is for grant of regular bail to the petitioner

in case bearing FIR No. 61 dated 08.09.2025, registered under Sections

318(4), 319(2) and 61(2) of Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 and Section

42(3) of the Telecommunication Act, 2023 at Police Station Cyber Crime,

District Kurukshetra. 2. The aforementioned FIR was registered on the basis of a written

 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 25-02-2026 00:27:07 ::: CRM-M-70793-2025 (O&M) -2-

complaint submitted by complainant Balkishan Attri alleging that he was

made a victim of digital/cyber fraud and a sum of Rs.78,85,000/- was

extracted from him on the premise of issuing a credit card of limit of Rs.1

Lakh from State Bank of India and then by extending threats to him to the

effect that money laundering of huge amount of money was done from his

Aadhar Card. Realizing that he had been cheated at the hands of cyber

fraudsters, he prayed for taking action in the matter. 3. After registration of the FIR, investigation proceedings were

initiated. During investigation, call details record and telecom subscriber

records of suspected phones were collected and it was revealed that

fraudulent communications were linked to a particular mobile phone number

i.e. 91798-18415, which was registered in the name of Vinod Bhatt. The said

Vinod Bhatt was joined into investigation and it was revealed that the

abovementioned phone number was being used by the present petitioner,

who is son of Vinod Bhatt. It was also revealed that the petitioner had been

using multiple mobile devices and SIM cards for facilitating cyber fraud

operations. He was joined into investigation and was arrested on 14.09.2025.

He suffered disclosure statement to the effect that he had travelled to

Cambodia and Thailand and had come into contact with the members of an

organized international cyber fraud syndicate operating in the name of GPK

Internationals. He was recruited by the syndicate through social media

platforms and was instructed to procure SIM cards in India and supply them

to the members of the syndicate for facilitating cyber frauds operations using

VOIP based calling system. 4. The petitioner in his disclosure statement further disclosed that

 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 25-02-2026 00:27:07 ::: CRM-M-70793-2025 (O&M) -3-

he had procured 500 to 550 SIM cards through co-accused Akash Chaurasiya

and other associates and had provided OTP verification and activation

support to members of the cyber fraud syndicate. The abovementioned

number was also got activated and supplied by him. He further disclosed

about receiving payments of different amounts of money in lieu of supplying

SIM cards and facilitating cyber frauds operations. He also got recovered one

VOIP including 05 GSM VOIP gateway machines capable of operating

multiple SIM cards simultaneously. Several mobile SIM cards, 04 mobile

phones, one laptop, one CP Plus surveillance camera, one Jio router and one

Airtel router as well as his passport were also got recovered. His passport

was found having immigration stamps confirming his visits to Cambodia and

Thailand on multiple occasions. It was also found that he had received an

amount of Rs. 2,50,000/- in his account from co-conspirators. Some other

persons were also nominated as accused in this case. Investigation now

stands completed. 5. It is argued by learned counsel for the petitioner that he has been

falsely implicated in this case. There is nothing on record to connect him

with the subject offences. Vague and general allegations have been levelled

against him. The recoveries effected from him are not connected with the

subject offence. He is in custody since 14.09.2025. Mandatory procedure as

prescribed in law was not complied with while effecting his arrest. His

antecedents are clean. He is in custody since long. His further incarceration

would not serve any useful purpose. It is, therefore, argued that the petition

deserves to be allowed. 6. Status report has been filed. Learned State counsel has argued

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 25-02-2026 00:27:07 ::: CRM-M-70793-2025 (O&M) -4-

that the allegations against the petitioner are serious in nature. He along with

the co-accused had duped the complainant of a huge amount of money by

way of cyber fraud. He had played an active role in commission of subject

crime. His participation in the alleged crime stands established during the

course of investigation. He was an important link in the entire conspiracy

hatched for the purpose of subjecting the victim to cyber fraud. There are

chances of the petitioner's absconding or committing similar offences, if

extended benefit of bail. It is, thus, urged that the petition is liable to be

dismissed. 7. This Court has heard the rival submissions made by learned

counsel for the parties. 8. The petitioner is alleged to have played an active and pivotal

role in an organised cyber fraud racket by facilitating fraudulent operations

through procurement and supply of a large number of SIM cards, providing

OTP verification and activation support and enabling VOIP-based calling

systems for commission of cyber crimes. He is further alleged to have acted

as a link between an international cyber fraud syndicate and its Indian

operations including having travelled abroad to Cambodia and Thailand and

coordinating with members of the syndicate. The material collected during

investigation prima facie indicates the active involvement of the petitioner

in the conspiracy. Call detail records, subscriber information, recoveries

effected from the petitioner, including VOIP gateway machines, multiple

SIM cards, mobile phones, electronic devices and bank account details, as

well as the recovery of his passport bearing immigration stamps,

cumulatively point towards his conscious participation in facilitating cyber

 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 25-02-2026 00:27:07 ::: CRM-M-70793-2025 (O&M) -5-

fraud operations. The disclosure statements and the financial trail further

lend support to the prosecution case at this stage. The allegations pertain to

a serious and well-orchestrated cyber fraud involving a huge monetary loss

to the complainant. The role attributed to the petitioner is not peripheral but

appears to be integral to the execution of the offence. He is also shown to

have received different amounts of money in his account by way of

fraudulent transactions. Cyber frauds have seen an alarming rise in recent

times exploiting technological advancements to target unsuspecting and

innocent persons. Such offences not only cause severe financial loss but also

inflict psychological distress and erode public confidence in digital systems.

The organized and cross-border nature of these crimes makes detection and

prevention increasingly difficult. Offences of this nature, therefore, require a

strict and deterrent approach to curb their growing menace. The trial has

commenced and there is nothing on record to suggest that there would be any

undue delay in conclusion of the same. Keeping in view the above discussed

facts and circumstances, this Court is of the considered opinion that no case

is made out for release of the petitioner on bail, at this stage. Hence, the

petition is dismissed. 9. It is clarified that the observations made above shall not be

construed as an expression of opinion of this Court on the merits of the case

and shall not influence the outcome of the trial in any manner.