(The matter is heard through “Video Conferencing/Hybrid Mode”.)

 This Civil Revision Petition is filed against the Judgment and decree

 dated 18.11.2016 made in I.A.No.7 of 2016 in O.S.No.6592 of 2013 on the file

 of the XV Additional City Civil Court, Chennai.

 Facts of the case: 4.According to the plaintiffs, they became owners of 2 acre and 32 cents

 in T.S.No.31 in Ekkattuthangal, Madras City. They purchased the said

 property by five sale deeds dated (i) 24.10.1945 bearing Document No.1940 of 3/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 1945, (ii) 11.06.1948 bearing Document No.1286 of 1948, (iii) 30.03.1948

 bearing Document No.626 of 1948, (iv) 14.10.1950 bearing Document

 No.2221 of 1950 and (v) 14.10.1950 bearing Document No.2227 of 1950.

 According to the said plaintiffs, they were in possession and enjoyment of

 entire 2 acres and 32 cents which is described as 'A' Schedule property. The 1st

 defendant / Technical Staff Housing Society wanted to purchase the said land.

 On the Eastern side of the property, a piece of land was developed to be used

 as cremation and burial ground. In view of the same, the 1st defendant offered

 to buy only 1 acre and 80 cents. The 1st defendant wanted to purchase the

 vacant land to develop the same. 5.The property described in Schedule 'A' measuring 2 acres and 32 cents

 was lying vacant for a long time. A passage happened running from East to

 West. The 1st defendant accepted to purchase the land lying on southern side of

 passage, except a strip of land in an irregular shape in the form of triangle on

 the western side. The plaintiffs also had taken a portion of the land lying on the

 Eastern side of the suit property being corner portion situated between the

 passage mentioned above and the road leading to Adayar River. The plaintiffs

 intended to sell only 1 acre and 80 cents of the land to the 1st defendant and 4/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 plaintiffs intended to sell the 52 cents along with corner plot retained by them. 6.The intention of 1st defendant was to purchase 1 acre and 80 cents of

 vacant land, convert and allot to its members. In order to avoid cost of

 purchase from plaintiffs and cost of conveying the plot to its members, the 1 st

 defendant requested the plaintiffs to execute power of attorney appointing its

 Secretary one P.Ramasamy and President K.Raman, 2nd defendant as power

 agents of plaintiffs. At request of 1st defendant, the plaintiffs executed four

 power of attorneys dated 14.06.1982 bearing Document No.187 of 1982,

 19.07.1982 bearing Document No.234 of 1982, 06.09.1982 bearing Document

 No.278 of 1982 and 06.09.1982 bearing Document No.279 of 1982. By these

 four deeds, plaintiffs appointed P.Ramasamy and K.Raman as their agents to

 deal with land totally measuring 1 acre and 80 cents only. In the last power of

 attorney dated 06.09.1982, it has been specifically mentioned that Southern

 boundary is the remaining land of the plaintiffs. 7.The plaintiffs have executed four power of attorneys in favour of

 named persons namely, P.Ramasamy and K.Raman, the 2nd defendant. The

 plaintiffs did not execute any document in favour of 1st defendant and 1st 5/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 defendant being an Institution cannot be a power of attorney. The 1st defendant

 formed a lay out and allotted house sites to its members. The lay out was

 approved as P.P.D/Lis No.48/88 under a Letter No.D/2/707/85 dated

 30.03.1988 from the Member-Secretary, Madras Metropolitan Development

 Authority. In the approved lay-out, the total extent of land mentioned is

 6219.80 sq.meters equivalent to one acre and 55.5 cents. But it is wrongly

 mentioned as if the entire land owned by the plaintiffs do form of layout. 8.The 2nd defendant along with deceased P.Ramasamy and present

 Office Bearers obviously might have taken advantage of illiteracy of the

 plaintiffs in making claim as if plaintiffs do not have any other land, that

 plaintiffs have conveyed the entire land possessed by them in favour of the 1st

 defendant. After approval of lay-out, the 1st defendant appears to have executed

 sale deeds as power of attorney agents of plaintiffs in favour of its members.

 After death of P.Ramasamy, the defendants 3 & 4 became Office Bearers.

 They are not power of attorneys of plaintiffs. The defendants 3 & 4 have

 executed a settlement deed dated 30.12.1987 in favour of Corporation of

 Madras registered as Document No.4683 of 1987. The defendants 3 & 4 are

 not power agents of plaintiffs and the settlement deed is not binding on the 6/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 plaintiffs. The 1st defendant and defendants 2 & 4 also executed sale deeds in

 favour of defendants 3 to 21 described in Schedules 'D' to 'X' and 2 nd defendant

 executed sale deed in his favour. Even though the plaintiffs have agreed to sell

 only 1 acre and 80 cents and executed four power of attorneys, the deceased

 P.Ramasamy and the defendants 2 to 4 hatched a programme as if the entire 2

 acre and 32 cents was conveyed under four power of attorneys. The plaintiffs

 retained 52 cents. The plaintiffs sold 1360 sq.feet, 300 sq.feet and 840 sq.feet

 to the defendants 26, 27 & 28 by registered sale deeds. The 3rd defendant

 created a document as if he purchased some land from plaintiffs and settled the

 properties on his daughter, the 22nd defendant. The defendants 26 & 28 filed

 suit in O.S.No.10966 of 1989 on the file of the II Assistant City Civil Court,

 Madras. The 22nd defendant also filed C.S.No.659 of 1990 on the file of this

 Court, against the defendants 26 & 28. The plaintiffs coming to know that the

 deceased P.Ramasamy and defendants 2 to 4 have created a record even

 relating to the property retained and belonging to the plaintiffs to resolve the

 dispute, thought fit to file comprehensive suit impleading all the parties

 claiming right over it. The plaintiffs are obliged to file suit for declaration,

 consequential possession and injunction against the defendants for reliefs as

 detailed in the prayer. The defendants 19 & 20 have mortgaged the property in 7/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 favour of 24th defendant. Hence, 24th defendant is impleaded as party. Schedule

 'C' property was settled in favour of 29th defendant and lay-out was transferred

 by 30th defendant and they are necessary and proper parties. 9.Though the plaintiffs are restricting their claim only with respect of

 Schedule 'B' and 'C' property, the entire matter has to be adjudicated with

 reference to the extent of land sold by plaintiffs to the 1st defendant by power

 of attorney documents still at the extent of land is in dispute as it appears that

 defendants 1 to 23 and 31 to 34 are in possession of more of the land than what

 was sold under the documents to them and in order to appreciate the stand

 taken by the plaintiffs, all those sale transactions included in respect of 'A'

 Schedule are made necessary and proper parties to the suit. 10.On the above averments, the plaintiffs filed suit for declaration that

 plaintiffs alone are entitled to lands situated in T.S.No.31 in Ekkattuthangal,

 Madras to an extent of 46 cents morefully described in the Schedule “B-2” and

 for permanent injunction and costs. 11.The defendants 9, 10, 22 & 35, the petitioners herein filed I.A.No.7 8/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 of 2016 under Order VII Rule 11(a) & (d) read with Section 151 of the Code

 of Civil Procedure to reject the plaint in O.S.No.6592 of 2013, the present suit. 12.According to petitioners, as per plaint averments and cause of action,

 the suit is barred by limitation as suit for declaration and permanent injunction,

 cause of action starts when the right to sue first accrues. As per the plaint

 averments the foundation of the plaint is based on the four power of attorneys

 dated 14.06.1982, 19.07.1982, 06.09.1982 and 06.09.1982 for valuable

 consideration having obtained by the plaintiffs. The cause of action in the plaint

 is illusory cause of action and not real cause of action and plaint does not

 disclose a clear right to sue and it is barred by law. The plaintiffs have not

 stated in the plaint in whose sale deed the so called excess land has been sold.

 The plaintiffs have indirectly challenged the power of attorneys and sale deeds

 executed in the year 1982, which is barred by law. The plaintiffs have filed the

 suit after 10 years of power of attorney and sale deeds and plaint is barred by

 limitation. The plaintiffs have conveniently not stated when the cause of action

 first accrued for the suit in the plaint. A reading of the plaint shows that cause

 of action first accrued in the year 1982, when the plaintiffs executed power of

 attorney, sale deeds were executed in the year 1988, when lay-out was 9/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 approved. 13.The plaintiffs filed O.S.No.4322 of 1988 on the very same cause of

 action on which the present suit has been filed and the said suit was dismissed

 as withdrawn without liberty to file fresh suit and therefore, the present suit is

 barred under Order II Rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure . The cause of

 action for both the suits is the same namely the four power of attorneys dated

 14.06.1982, 19.07.1982, 06.09.1982 and 06.09.1982. The plaintiffs have

 omitted to sue and have relinquished their present case prayer and plaintiffs

 cannot file present suit seeking relief. When the plaintiffs filed suit in the year

 1988, the sale deeds have already been executed and lay-out also was

 approved by the Development Authority. This will show that as per plaint

 averments, plaintiffs are abusing the process of Court and Law after receiving

 valuable consideration. For relief of declaration, there is no document to

 substantiate the claim and the claim is based on imaginary schedule in the

 plaint. The suit is indirectly challenging the power of attorneys, sale deeds and

 lay-out approved by the Development Authority. The suit as per the averments

 in the plaint shows that the same is collusive one between the plaintiffs and

 defendants. 10/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 On the above averments, the petitioners prayed for rejection of plaint in

 the present suit. 14.The respondents filed counter affidavit and denied all the allegations

 made by the petitioners. The respondents have stated that the application is

 liable to be dismissed for following reasons: 15(a). The suit is with regard to immovable property and Articles 64 &

 65 of the Limitation Act provides for limitation of 12 years for 'possession' and

 period commenced from the date of 'dispossession' and when possession of

 defendants is adverse to the plaintiffs. (b). The respondents are in possession of properties described in 12/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 Schedule 'B2'. Whether petitioners are in possession or respondents are in

 possession can be decided only after framing specific issue. (c). The question of limitation is mixed question of fact and law and

 cannot be decided in the summary proceedings. (d). The petitioners have not raised any plea in respect of Order II Rule

 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure in written statement. Without specific

 pleading, the issue cannot be decided and the said issue cannot be decided

 even in Order II Rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure . The petitioners have

 not produced copy of the plaint in O.S.No.6224 of 1988 and the said suit

 relates to five cents of land only, whereas the present suit relates to 46 cents in

 Schedule B2. The plaintiffs are not challenging the power of attorney and it is

 not the case of the petitioners that they are in possession and they had acquired

 title by adverse possession and petitioners do not have case on merits and have

 not come out with the present application. For the above reasons, the respondents prayed for dismissal of the

 application. 16.The 4th petitioner also filed separate affidavit and made averments

 similar to the averments in the affidavit filed by all the petitioners. The 4 th

 petitioner has stated that respondents have not stated as to when the cause of 13/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 action of the suit arose and prayed for rejection of plaint in O.S.No.6592 of

 2013 on the file of the XV Additional City Civil Court, Chennai. 17.The learned Judge considering the materials placed before him and by

 the order dated 18.11.2016, dismissed the application holding that suit is not

 barred under Order II Rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure , plaintiffs have

 shown prima facie cause of action for the relief claimed against the defendants

 and whether plaintiffs can succeed or not can be decided only on examination

 of all parties. 18.Against the said judgment and decree dated 18.11.2016 made in

 I.A.No.7 of 2016 in O.S.No.6592 of 2013, the petitioners have come out with

 the present Civil Revision Petition. 19.The learned counsel appearing for the petitioners submitted that the

 learned Judge failed to consider that (i) The plaintiffs have filed the suit for declaration and injunction without

 being in possession. 14/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 (ii) The learned Judge erred in holding that Articles 64 & 65 of the Limitation Act are applicable as the relief in the suit is only for declaration and

 injunction. (iii) The learned Judge erred in holding that Articles 64 & 65 of the Limitation Act would apply, but on the facts of the case only Article 58 is

 applicable. (iv) The plaintiffs' claim is based on registered power of attorney and a

 mistake in the boundary unless the same is specified as per law, a suit cannot

 be maintained. (v) Suit is barred by order II Rule 2 of the Code of Civil procedure in

 view of earlier suit filed by plaintiffs was withdrawn and a comprehensive suit

 was filed. The findings of the learned Judge is contrary to the law laid down by

 the Hon'ble Apex Court, wherein it is clearly stated that when the suit is

 withdrawn without liberty to file a fresh suit, a comprehensive suit cannot be

 filed as it is barred under Order II Rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure . (vi) The plaint does not disclose cause of action and the cause of action

 pleaded is only illusory and the learned Judge failed to consider the claim of

 the petitioners. (vii) Without considering the contention of the petitioners, the learned 15/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 Judge erroneously dismissed the application. (viii) The plaintiffs are claiming fraudulent transaction, based on power

 of attorney executed by them and sale deeds have been for more extent than the

 extent mentioned in the power of attorney. Without seeking declaration that

 power of attorneys and sale deeds are null and void, the present suit for

 declaration is not maintainable and cause of action is only illusory. The learned

 Judge failed to see that in order to over come the limitation, the plaintiffs have

 filed the suit for declaration and injunction and not for possession, when their

 specific case is power of attorney executed for larger extent of land and

 purchasers are put into possession more than what they can derive from the

 power of attorney. The Schedules mentioned in the plaint are imaginary and not

 supported by any document. The finding of the learned Judge is contrary to the

 averments in the plaint. The learned Judge failed to see that respondents failed

 to claim the foundational relief and consequential relief sought is not permitted.

 The respondents, without seeking to set aside the power of attorneys and sale

 deeds already executed by power agents by fraud and for possession, seeking

 the relief of declaration and injunction is not maintainable. The respondents

 have not stated in which sale deed the excess land was given to purchasers and

 when the cause of action for the relief of permanent injunction arose. 16/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 In support of his contention, the learned counsel relied on the following

 judgments: The amount borrowed was alleged to have been
 fully paid back on 25.3.1987 and in
 acknowledgment thereof a formal receipt was
 obtained. At the same time there was an alleged
 oral agreement by the defendants to reconvey the
 property to the plaintiffs by registered deed. This
 Court held that on the basis of the averments 18/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 contained in the plaint relief of declaring the
 registered sale deed dated 5.5.1953 to be a loan
 transaction and second relief of specific
 performance of oral agreement of recoveyance of
 property by registered document ought to have
 been claimed in the suit. A suit merely for
 declaration that the plaintiffs are absolute owners
 of the suit lands could not have been claimed
 without seeking a declaration that the registered
 sale deed dated 5.5.1953 was a loan transaction
 and not a real sale. The cause of action for
 seeking such a declaration and for reconveyance
 deed according to the plaintiffs own averments
 arose on 25.3.1987 when the plaintiff is claimed to
 have obtained the entire loan amount and
 obtained a promise from the defendants to
 reconvey the property. The mutation proceedings
 did not furnish any independent or fresh cause of
 action to seek a declaration of the sale deed of
 5.5.1953 to be merely a loan transaction. The
 foundation of the suit was clearly the registered
 sale deed of 1953 which is alleged to be a loan
 transaction and the alleged oral agreement of
 reconveyance of the property on return of
 borrowed amount. This Court went on to observe, 19/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 '14.After examining the pleadings of the plaint as
 discussed above, we are clearly of the opinion that
 by clever drafting of the plaint the civil suit which
 is hopelessly barred for seeking avoidance of
 registered sale deed of 5.5.1993, has been
 instituted by taking recourse to orders passed in
 mutation proceedings by the Revenue Court. 15.Civil Suit No. 557 of 1990 was pending when
 the present suit was filed. In the present suit, the
 relief indirectly claimed is of declaring the sale
 deed of 5.5.1993 to be not really a sale deed but a
 loan transaction. Relief of reconveyance of
 property under alleged oral agreement on return
 of loan has been deliberately omitted from the
 relief clause. In our view, the present plaint is
 liable to rejection, if not on the ground that it does
 not disclose "cause of action", on the ground that
 from the averments in the plaint, the suit is
 apparently barred by law within the meaning of
 Clause (d) of Order 7 Rule 11 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure . 39.We are of the view that the respondent is right
 in contending that enforcement of the negative
 covenants presupposes the existence of a
 subsisting agreement. As noticed earlier, the law
 is well settled that the renewal of an agreement or 20/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 lease requires execution of a document in
 accordance with law evidencing the renewal. The
 grant of renewal is also a fresh grant. In the
 instant case, the appellant-plaintiff did exercise
 their option and claimed renewal. The respondents
 denied their right to claim renewal in express
 terms and also unequivocally stated that the
 agreement did not stand renewed as contended by
 the appellants. Having regard to these facts it
 must be held that a cause of action accrued to the
 appellant- plaintiff when their right of renewal
 was denied by the respondents. This happened in
 December, 2001 and, therefore, within three years
 from that date they ought to have taken
 appropriate proceedings to get their right of
 renewal declared and enforced by a court of law
 and/or to get a declaration that the agreement
 stood renewed for a further period of 5 years upon
 the appellants' exercising their option to claim
 renewal under the original agreement. The
 appellants-plaintiffs have failed to do so. ...” (ii) (2011) 9 SCC 126 [Khatri Hotels Private limited and anothers Vs. Union
 of India and another]: Even if the appellants were to plead ignorance
 about the two notifications, it is impossible to
 believe that they did not know about the violation
 of their so- called right over the suit land despite
 the receipt of copy of the written statement filed on
 behalf of the DDA in December, 1990. Therefore,
 the cause of action will be deemed to have accrued
 to the appellants in December, 1990 and the suit
 filed on 14.2.2000 was clearly barred by time.” ( iii)(2012) (4) CTC 308 [The Church of Christ Charitable Trust &
 Educational Charitable Society Vs. Ponniamman Educational Trust ]: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 rule 2 of Order 2 Rule 2, CPC . The object of
 Order 2 Rule 2 is to avoid multiplicity of
 proceedings and not to vex the parties over and
 again in a litigative process. The object enunciated
 in Order 2 Rule 2, CPC is laudable and it has a
 larger public purpose to achieve by not burdening
 the court with repeated suits.” (vi)(2020) 7 SCC 366 [Dahiben vs Aravindbhai and others]: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 23.4.In Azhar Hussain v. Rajiv Gandhi1 this Court
 held that the whole purpose of conferment of
 powers under this provision is to ensure that a
 litigation which is meaningless, and bound to
 prove abortive, should not be permitted to waste
 judicial time of the court, in the following words : https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 23.8. Having regard to Order VII Rule 14 CPC ,
 the documents filed alongwith the plaint, are
 required to be taken into consideration for
 deciding the application under Order VII Rule 11 (a). When a document referred to in the plaint,
 forms the basis of the plaint, it should be treated
 as a part of the plaint. 23.9.In exercise of power under this provision, the
 Court would determine if the assertions made in
 the plaint are contrary to statutory law, or judicial
 dicta, for deciding whether a case for rejecting the
 plaint at the threshold is made out. 23.10.At this stage, the pleas taken by the
 defendant in the written statement and application
 for rejection of the plaint on the merits, would be
 irrelevant, and cannot be adverted to, or taken
 into consideration. 23.11.The test for exercising the power under
 Order VII Rule 11 is that if the averments made in
 the plaint are taken in entirety, in conjunction with
 the documents relied upon, would the same result
 in a decree being passed. This test was laid down
 in Liverpool & London S.P. & I Assn. Ltd. v. M.V.Sea Success I & Anr.,4 which reads as : 29/79 24.1.In Swamy Atmanand v. Sri Ramakrishna
 Tapovanam8 this Court held : Syed Jalal held that it should be nipped in the bud,
 so that bogus litigation will end at the earliest
 stage. The Court must be vigilant against any
 camouflage or suppression, and determine whether 32/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 the litigation is utterly vexatious, and an abuse of
 the process of the court. 25. The Limitation Act, 1963 prescribes a time-limit
 for the institution of all suits, appeals, and
 applications. Section 2(j) defines the expression
 “period of limitation” to mean the period of
 limitation prescribed in the Schedule for suits,
 appeals or applications. Section 3 lays down that
 every suit instituted after the prescribed period,
 shall be dismissed even though limitation may not
 have been set up as a defence. If a suit is not
 covered by any specific article, then it would fall
 within the residuary article. 26.Articles 58 and 59 of the Schedule to the 1963
 Act, prescribe the period of limitation for filing a
 suit where a declaration is sought, or cancellation
 of an instrument, or rescission of a contract, which
 reads as under : 27.In Khatri Hotels Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. Union of
 India & Anr.,12 this Court held that the use of the
 word ‘first’ between the words ‘sue’ and ‘accrued’,
 would mean that if a suit is based on multiple
 causes of action, the period of limitation will begin
 to run from the date when the right to sue first
 accrues. That is, if there are successive violations
 of the right, it would not give rise to a fresh cause
 of action, and the suit will be liable to be
 dismissed, if it is beyond the period of limitation
 counted from the date when the right to sue first
 accrued.” (vii) 2021 SCC Online 764, [Rajendra Bajoria and others Vs. Hemant 34/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 Kumar Jalan and others]; “ ... 14. We may gainfully refer to the
 observations of this Court in the case of T.
 Arivandandam v. T.V. Satyapal and
 Another (supra): However, under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC , the
 duty is cast upon the court to determine whether
 the plaint discloses a cause of action, by
 scrutinizing the averments in the plaint, read in
 conjunction with the documents relied upon, or
 whether the suit is barred by any law. This Court
 has held that the underlying object of Order VII
 Rule 11 of CPC is that when a plaint does not
 disclose a cause of action, the court would not
 permit the plaintiff to unnecessarily protract the
 proceedings. It has been held that in such a case, it
 will be necessary to put an end to the sham
 litigation so that further judicial time is not
 wasted.” (viii) (2002) 10 SCC 501, [Raj Narain Sarin (dead) Through LRS and 37/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 others Vs. Laxmi Devi and others ]; “ ... 3.It is convenient to note at this
 juncture that in an application for rejection of the
 plaint under Order 7 Rule 11, law has been rather
 well settled for quite sometime in a long catena of
 cases that the plaint should be taken as it is and
 the application should be considered on the basis
 of the averments in the plaint itself and no external
 aid is available to the Court for the purpose. It has
 also been the well settled principle of law that the
 Law Court should be rather hesitant to exercise
 the jurisdiction under Order 7 Rule 11 unless the
 factual score warrants such exercise and the
 matter in issue falls within the four corners of the
 requirement of the statute. It is for this purpose
 however, the necessary averments in the plaint
 ought to be considered. Paragraphs 6, 7, 8 & 9 of
 the plaint being the necessary averments in the
 plaint ought to be noticed at this juncture and the
 same be read as below : 7.As noticed above, the learned Single
 Judge of the Allahabad High Court though
 elaborately laid down the requirement of Order 7
 Rule 11 and the true effect thereof, but in our view,
 totally misread and misapplied the provision in the
 contextual facts. No explanation whatsoever is
 available on the plaint as to the situation under
 which the suit was filed after about a long period
 of 40 years. The knowledge of the deed of sale
 stands accepted by reason of the averment in the
 plaint itself (vide paragraph 9 of the plaint). 8.On an analysis of the plaint, apart from
 there being a mere bald statement that the sale
 deed has nothing to do with the rest of the area, 40/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 i.e., 6 Bighas 13 Biswas and the Bungalows built
 thereon which stands to be owned and possessed
 by the plaintiff and prior to him by Munni Lal,
 there is no other averment tracing the title for 6
 Bighas and 13 Biswas. Admittedly, several
 portions of the plot stood demarcated as being 3
 Bighas 13 Biswas and the other being 6 Bighas 13
 Biswas: whereas there is no dispute as regards 3
 Bighas 13 Biswas but the conferment of title on to
 the plaintiff as regards 6 Bighas 13 Biswas is not
 available in the plaint itself. The plaint is totally
 silent on that score, though, however, the existence
 of the deed of sale noticed above stands accepted
 by the plaintiff. The litigation, in our view, cannot
 but be termed to be utterly vexatious and abuse of
 the process of court, more so by reason of the fact
 that the deed of sale being executed as early as
 1941 stands unassailed for a period of over 50
 years. The decision of this Court in T.
 Arivandandam' has its due application and having
 regard to the decision as noticed above and upon
 consideration of the relevant provisions as
 engrafted in the Code itself, we have no hesitation
 in accepting the order of the learned Additional
 District Judge. The High Court obviously fell into
 a manifest error and as such this appeal is 41/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 allowed. The order of the High Court stands set
 aside. The order of the learned Additional District
 Judge stands restored. No order as to costs. 20.Per contra, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents

 submitted that (i) The present application for rejection of plaint is vexatious, frivolous

 and is counter blast for the application for appointment of Advocate

 Commissioner filed by the respondents. At the time of orders to be passed in

 the said application, the petitioners have come out with the present application

 to reject the plaint. (ii) The application has been filed belatedly after 24 years of filing of the

 suit. (iii) The petitioners are legal heirs of 3rd defendant, who did not take a

 stand in the written statement that the suit is not maintainable. Without any

 pleadings, the present application is not maintainable (iv) The plaint has to be read as a whole to find out whether there is

 cause of action for the suit. (v) The respondents in the cause of action paragraph has stated that

 cause of action for the suit from the date the plaintiffs purchased the property, 42/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 power of attorneys and sale deeds executed, which are contrary to the power

 granted by the plaintiffs until the date of plaint. (vi) The petitioners have not substantiated their claim as per Order VII

 Rule 11 (a) & (b) of the Code of Civil Procedure . The grounds raised by the

 petitioners are not contemplated under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code of Civil

 Procedure . The present suit is not hit by provisions of Order II Rule 2 of the

 Code of Civil Procedure and it is not barred by law. The earlier suit filed by

 respondents relates to only 5 cents and the present suit is for 46 cents. The

 cause of action for both the suits are different. In any event, the earlier suit was

 not decided on merits and that was withdrawn by the plaintiffs. (vii) The suit is not barred by Limitation and it is not correct to state that Article 58 of the Limitation Act is applicable to the present suit. The present

 suit relates to declaration of immovable property and injunction and only Articles 65 & 66 of the Limitation Act are applicable. The plaintiffs have filed

 the suit within 12 years seeking relief with regard to immovable property. In

 any event, the question of limitation can be decided only after full fledged trial

 based on the evidence let in by the parties. The learned Senior Counsel

 extensively referred to the averments in the affidavit, counter affidavit and

 order of learned Judge and submitted that learned Judge has considered all the 43/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 materials placed before him properly and there is no error in the reasons given

 for dismissing the application. The petitioners have not made out any case for

 setting aside the order of the learned Judge and for rejection of plaint and

 prayed for dismissal of Civil Revision Petition. In support of his contention, the learned Senior Counsel relied on the

 following judgments: Only the averments in the plaint are germane. It is common
 ground that the registered sale deed is dated 18th October,
 1996. The limitation to challenge the registered sale deed
 ordinarily would start running from the date on which the
 sale deed was registered. However, the specific case of the
 appellants (plaintiffs) is that until 2013 they had no
 knowledge whatsoever regarding execution of such sale
 deed by their brothers - original defendant Nos.1 & 2, in
 favour of Jaikrishnabhai Prabhudas Thakkar or defendant
 Nos.3 to 6. They acquired that knowledge on 26.12.2012
 and immediately took steps to obtain a certified copy of the
 registered sale deed and on receipt thereof they realised the
 fraud played on them by their brothers concerning the
 ancestral property and two days prior to the filing of the
 suit, had approached their brothers (original defendant
 Nos.1 & 2) calling upon them to stop interfering with their 45/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 possession and to partition the property and provide
 exclusive possession of half (1/2) portion of the land so
 designated towards their share. However, when they
 realized that the original defendant Nos.1 & 2 would not
 pay any heed to their request, they had no other option but
 to approach the court of law and filed the subject suit within
 two days therefrom. According to the appellants, the suit
 has been filed within time after acquiring the knowledge
 about the execution of the registered sale deed. In this
 context, the Trial Court opined that it was a triable issue
 and declined to accept the application filed by respondent
 No.1 (defendant No.5) for rejection of the plaint under
 Order VII Rule 11(d). That view commends to us.” (ii) (2019) 13 SCC 372 [Urvashiben and another Vs. Krishnakant

 Manuprasad Trivedi]: From a reading of the aforesaid Article, it is clear that
 when the date is fixed for performance, limitation is three
 years from such date. If no such date is fixed, the period of
 three years is to be computed from the date when the
 plaintiff, has notice of refusal. When rejection of plaint is
 sought in an application filed under O.VII R.11, same is to
 be considered from the facts of each case, looking at the
 averments made in the plaint, for the purpose of
 adjudicating such application. ............... 17.Counsel for the appellants has placed reliance on
 the judgment in the case of Prabhakar (supra). In the above
 said case, this Court has held that, even where no limitation
 period is prescribed by the Statute, courts apply doctrine of
 delay/laches/acquiescence and non-suit litigants who
 approach court belatedly without justifiable explanation.
 Delay and laches are to be examined with reference to facts
 of each case and the said judgment is not helpful to support
 the case of the appellant inasmuch as this matter arises out
 of an application filed under O.VII R.11(d) of the CPC . The 47/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 C.A.@ SLP(C)Nos.23062-63/18 judgment in the case of T.
 Arivandandam (supra) pertains to eviction from tenanted
 premises which was contested by the tenant. In the said
 case where rejection of plaint under O.VII R.11(d) was
 considered on the ground that plaint does not disclose
 cause of action but not a case for rejection of plaint on the
 ground of limitation. In the case of Hardesh Ores (supra) it
 was the case falling in the first limb of Article 54 of the Limitation Act 1963 but not a case falling under second
 limb, where the time is not the essence of the contract. In
 the judgment in the case of Dilboo (Dead) (supra) this
 Court has considered relevant principles of applicability of
 O.VII R.11 of CPC . Equally, the case of I.T.C. Limited (supra) is a case concerning rejection of plaint under O.VII
 R.11(a) but not case of rejection on the ground of
 limitation. In the case of Raj Narain Sarin (supra) the suit
 was filed after 40 years after execution of the Sale Deed
 and as a fact it was found that Sale Deed was to the
 knowledge of the plaintiff and he had not taken any steps to
 declare the Sale Deed invalid. In that context, the order
 passed under O.VII R.11 was confirmed by this Court. In
 the case of N.V. Srinivasa (supra) the suit is C.A.@
 SLP(C)Nos.23062-63/18 for declaration but not for specific
 performance and in the said suit having regard to the facts
 of the case this Court has held that suit for declaration filed
 by the plaintiff is not maintainable. In the case of Madanuri 48/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 Rama (supra) the suit was filed seeking cancellation of Sale
 Deed on the ground that property in question is a waqf
 property which cannot be sold to a private party. The
 aforesaid case is a case not concerning limitation under Article 54 of the Limitation Act 1963. ” (iii) 2020 (1) CTC 275 [Loom Tex Exports, Chennai and others Vs.

 Thanner Panthal Dharma Chathiram and others]: A mere contemplation or possibility that a right may be
 infringed without any legitimate basis for that right, would
 not be sufficient to hold that the Plaint discloses a cause of
 action." 16. The above Judgments make it clear that a cause of
 action means every fact which, if traversed, would be
 necessary for the Plaintiff to prove in order to seek a
 Decree and relief against the Defendants. There must be
 some act done by the Defendants which infringes upon a
 right or violates a right or there is breach of obligation. 17.It will be relevant to rely upon the Judgment of
 the Honourable Supreme Court in Liverpool & London
 S.P. & I Association Ltd. V. M.V.Sea Success I and 50/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 another, 2004 (9) SCC 512. The relevant portions of the
 judgment is extracted hereunder: Cause of action: 18. The learned counsel for the petitioner
 raised a ground stating that the plaint has been
 cleverly and astutely drafted for the purpose of
 bringing in a cause of action to over come the
 limitation. In support of such a submission, the
 learned counsel for the petitioner relied upon
 the Hon'ble Apex Court in Hardesh Ores (P)
 Ltd V. Head and Company reported in 2007 (5)
 SCC 614 and other decisions on the same ratio. 19. This proposition as well as the ratio
 laid down therein was a subject matter in a
 Civil Revision Petition in CRP.(PD) No.2564 of
 2018 [Paul Marie Josephine V. Louise Victorine
 Esperance Lafontaine] and I had an occasion to
 deal with the same in my order dated
 11.04.2019, in the following lines:- But the ratio, as such, is precarious and requires
 to be exercised with circumspection. For, all
 averments in the plaint can be discorded as
 astute and clever drafting, if the entire plaint is
 not read as a whole. Reading between the lines
 in the plaint, in order to discard the same, may
 not be judicious. 11. With the premise in mind and in order to
 ascertain as to whether such clever averments
 have been made in the present plaint, only for the
 purpose of sustaining the suit, the plaint was
 perused. Therein, it is seen that the respondent
 herein and her family members are alleged to be
 in possession and enjoyment of the suit property
 for more than a century. The plaintiff/respondent
 herein has claimed that she had looked after the
 defendant/petitioner herein from the childhood
 like a daughter. On 04.03.2016, when the
 respondent herein had claimed right over the suit
 property, their relationship became hostile. On
 23.04.2016, the respondent herein had given a
 criminal complaint against the petitioner and
 during the course of investigation in the police
 station, the execution of the Sale Deed dated
 22.07.2005, was revealed to the respondent
 herein. 12. The plaint averments also goes to say that
 the execution of the sale deed was through a
 fraud played upon the respondent herein. According to her, she had brought up the
 petitioner like her own daughter and on her
 request, she had signed in all the papers shown
 by the petitioner before several authorities
 honestly believing that it was only for the sake of 56/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 conferring power upon the petitioner to look
 after the suit property. It is her further averment
 that there was no necessary for her to sell away
 their ancestral property to the petitioner herein at
 any point of time and her sister also has no such
 intention. She had also stated that there was no
 consensus ad-idem between the parties to the
 document and that there was no free consent
 therein. During the year 2005, the petitioner
 herein had cunningly and secretly prepared all
 the documents and informed the respondent and
 her sister that a deed is required to be executed
 in favour of the petitioner herein, granting
 powers to look after the maintenance works in
 the suit property. Reposing full confidence and
 reliability, the respondent herein and her sister
 had signed the papers without knowing its
 contents. The document was also prepared in
 tamil language, which the plaintiff/respondent
 herein and her sister were not acquainted with,
 since they could read and write English and
 French language only. The respondent herein and
 her sister had never received any sale
 consideration towards sale transaction and that
 the petitioner herein had colluded with a named
 person for committing the fraud for the purpose
 of fraudulently having the sale deed registered.
 In such a detailed manner, the plaint averments
 have been made with an attempt to establish that
 the sale deed was executed through fraud and
 misrepresentation. These averments cannot be
 termed to be “clever drafting” or “an illusionary
 cause of action” for the plea of fraud. When the
 respondent herein had come out with certain
 facts stating that the parties were in good
 relationship that there were not conversant with
 the tamil language and they were made to
 believe that they were called upon to execute a 57/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 document of power deed and thereby had the
 same duly executed, the possibility of a fraud
 having committed, could be made out from such
 averments. 13. What requires to be kept in mind from
 reading of these plaint averments is that the
 petitioner herein now seeks to have the suit
 proceedings struck off, without the necessary
 issues being framed or by conduct of a trial. When there is a semblance of indication of the
 existence of fraud from the plaint pleadings, this
 Court would not be justified in exercising its
 power to strike off the suit proceedings. As
 stated earlier, the manner which the plaint
 averments indicate the possibility of fraud, such
 pleadings requires to be tested only through
 framing of issues and through a proper trial.”

 The above discussions are self explanatory. By looking into
 the averments of the entire plaint and in view of my earlier
 observations that the plaint, when read as a whole,
 discloses a cause of action, it cannot be said that the
 averments therein have been made through clever and
 astute drafting. Hence, this ground raised by the learned
 counsel for the petitioner cannot be sustained.” (v) 2021 4 LW 851 [Velayutham Vs. Sellamuthu]: The learned Judge has considered all the materials in
 proper perspective, exercised his jurisdiction properly and
 dismissed the I.A. There is no error in the order of the
 learned Judge, warranting interference by this Court.” 60/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 21.Heard the learned counsel appearing for the petitioners as well as the

 learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents and perused the entire

 materials available on record. 22.The petitioners who are the defendants 9, 10, 22 and 35 have filed

 I.A.No.7 of 2016 in O.S.No.6592 of 2013, to reject the plaint under Order VII

 Rule 11 (a) and (d) of Code of Civil Procedure . According to the petitioners,

 the suit does not disclose any cause of action, barred by law as per provisions

 of Order II Rule 2 of Code of Civil Procedure and suit is barred by limitation. Order VII Rule 11 of Code of Civil Procedure is extracted herein for easy

 reference: 23.The petitioners were seeking rejection of plaint on three grounds,

 viz., the plaint does not disclose cause of action, cause of action mentioned is

 only illusory, suit is barred by law under Order II Rule 2 of Code of Civil

 Procedure and suit is barred by limitation. The claims of the petitioners have to 63/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 be considered as per provisions of Order VII Rule 11, Order II Rule 2 of Code

 of Civil Procedure and provisions of the Limitation Act and the well settled

 judicial pronouncements enumerating the principles, based on which a plaint

 can be rejected or not. (I) The plaint does not reveal cause of action - The plaintiffs 1 and 2 claimed that they were absolute owners of 2 acres

 32 cents of vacant land in T.S.No.31 in Ekkattuthangal, Madras City, as they

 have purchased the same by four Registered sale deeds. According to the

 plaintiffs 1 and 2, they were in possession of the land from the date of

 purchase. In a corner of the said land, a cremation and burial ground had been

 developed. The 1st defendant approached the plaintiffs to purchase the land

 from them to form a layout of house site and allot the same to its members. The

 1st defendant offered to purchase only 1 acre 80 cents, in view of the existence

 of the cremation and burial ground. The plaintiffs agreed to sell 1 acre 80 cents,

 as requested by the 1st defendant. (Ia) The 1st defendant, in order to reduce the cost of house site to be 64/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 allotted to its members, requested the plaintiffs to execute Power of Attorney,

 appointing its President and Secretary, the 2nd defendant herein as their agents

 to deal with the property, including conveying the property. Accepting the said

 request, the plaintiffs executed two Power of Attorneys dated 14.06.1982,

 19.07.1982 and two Power of Attorneys both dated 06.09.1982, mentioned as

 item nos.5 to 8 in the list of documents in the plaint. It is the specific case of

 the plaintiffs that they executed four Power of Attorneys in respect of 1 acre 80

 cents and retained the balance land with them to be sold to third parties later. It

 is also the case of the plaintiffs that they appointed named persons i.e.,

 President P.Ramasamy and Secretary K.Raman, the 2nd defendant herein as

 their agents. According to plaintiffs, the Power Agent dealt with more lands

 than empowered to deal with. The plaintiffs also pleaded that after death of

 P.Ramasamy, the then President, the subsequent Office Bearers who were not

 the agents of plaintiffs executed various sale deeds and gift deeds in favour of

 Corporation of Madras. The plaintiffs have mentioned 33 sale deeds executed

 in favour of defendants, mentioned as document numbers 9 to 41 in the list of

 documents in the plaint. (Ib) From a reading of the plaint as a whole, it is seen that even though 65/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 the plaintiffs agreed to sell only 1 acre 80 cents and executed four Power of

 Attorneys to that effect, the 1st defendant and his Office Bearers have dealt

 with the entire 2 acres 32 cents and lay out approval granted on 30.03.1988

 includes the entire 2 acres 32 cents, instead of 1 acre 80 cents. The averments

 in the plaint show that some of the purchasers were put in possession of more

 land than that is mentioned in the sale deed. The plaintiffs have not mentioned

 in which sale deeds the purchasers have put in more extent of land than

 mentioned in the sale deed. The plaintiffs have filed the suit for declaration of

 title in respecst of 46 cents of land now compromised in T.S.No.31,

 Ekkattuthangal, Madras City. The plaintiffs also sought for permanent

 injunction, restraining the defendants in any way interfering with the plaintiffs'

 peaceful possession and enjoyment of the said land. (Ic) The averments in the plaint, the stand taken by the respondents in

 the counter affidavit filed in I.A.No.7 of 2015, filed for rejection of plaint and

 submissions of learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents are

 extensively extracted above. A reading of the plaint as a whole shows that the

 plaint does not contain a cause of action either for the relief of declaration or

 for permanent injunction. The entire averments in the plaint relates as to how 66/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 the plaintiffs acquired title, the Power of Attorney executed by them with

 regard to 1 acre 80 cents, the sale deeds executed by the Power of Attorney, by

 the subsequent Office Bearers of the 1st defendant without authority as well as

 gift deed executed by the 1st defendant. The plaintiffs have stated that the 1st

 defendant, the Power of Attorney executed sale deed for more than 1 acre 80

 cents and that purchasers were put in possession of more land than mentioned

 in sale deed, but have not mentioned any details. Even though the plaintiffs 1

 and 2 have stated in the plaint that entire 2 acres 32 cents were dealt with and

 conveyed to members of 1st respondent, plaintiffs 1 and 2 have not stated that

 their title with regard to 46 cents mentioned in Schedule B2 is being challenged

 by any of the purchasers or they are trying to interfere with their possession.

 No particulars with dates as to when the title or possession of the plaintiffs is

 interfered with has been mentioned in the plaint. Therefore, it is clear that from

 the averments in the plaint, especially in the cause of action paragraph, the

 plaintiffs 1 and 2 have not pleaded the cause of action for the relief of

 declaration of title as well as for permanent injunction. The plaint as a whole

 does not disclose cause of action for the suit. (II) Whether suit is barred by law under Order II Rule 2 of Code of Civil

 Procedure - 67/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 The Order II Rule 2 of Code of Civil Procedure reads as follows: but if he omits, except with the leave of the Court, to sue for
 all such reliefs, he shall not afterwards sue for any relief so
 omitted.”

 As per Order II Rule 2 of Code of Civil Procedure , a person must claim all the

 relief he is entitled to in the same suit. Every suit must include whole claim to

 which plaintiff is entitled. It is open to the plaintiff to relinquish any portion of 68/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 his claim in order to bring the suit within the jurisdiction of any Court. As per Order II Rule 2 of Code of Civil Procedure , when plaintiff intentionally

 relinquishes or abandon any portion of his claim, he shall not subsequently sue

 in respect of portion so abandoned or relinquished. But the plaintiff has an

 option under Order II Rule 2 (3) of C.P.C ., to seek permission of the Court to

 file a suit later to claim the relief not claimed in the first suit. The object of this

 rule is to ensure that no defendant is sued and vexed twice with regard to same

 cause of action and to prevent a plaintiff from seeking relief and remedies

 based on same cause of action. When foundation for both the suits are one and

 the same, the second suit claiming the relief not claimed in the earlier suit is

 barred by law. In O.S.No.6324 of 1988 filed by plaintiffs 1 and 2, they have

 stated that the defendant therein who is the 2nd defendant in the present suit has

 sold several plots to several persons, exceeding 1 acre and 80 cents. The fraud

 was found out by the plaintiffs 1 and 2 when the said defendant threatened to

 evict the plaintiffs. They have also stated that power is not given for entire land

 and it was only to an extent of 1 acre 80 cents, excluding the portion under

 their occupation. These averments clearly show that 2nd defendant herein has

 dealt with portion of the land retained by plaintiffs 1 and 2 viz., 52 cents, which

 includes 46 cents described in Schedule B-2 in the present suit. The plaintiffs 1 69/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 and 2 were entitled to seek relief of declaration and permanent injunction in

 respect of portion of land retained by them. But plaintiffs sought declaration

 that sale deed executed by the 2nd defendant herein dated 10.11.1982 is illegal,

 null and void and for consequential injunction. The plaintiffs 1 and 2 have

 abandoned and relinquished the reliefs in respect of other sale deeds and the

 reliefs now claimed in the present suit. Similar issue was considered by the

 Hon'ble Apex Court in the judgment reported in 2005 10 SCC 2018 [Union of

 India Vs. H.K.Dhruv ], wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court held that when cause

 of action on which subsequent claim arose, when a prior claim was made

 before any Court, the subsequent suit is hit by bar under Order II Rule 2 of

 Code of Civil Procedure . In paragraph no.4 of the judgment of the Hon'ble

 Apex Court, it has been held as follows: The plaintiffs 1 and 2 have filed suit praying for a declaration that

 plaintiffs alone are entitled to the land situated in T.S.No.31 in Ekkattuthangal,

 to the extent of 46 cents morefully described in Schedule B-2 and for 71/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 permanent injunction. The petitioners have contended that suit is barred by

 limitation as plaintiffs 1 and 2 failed to file the suit within three years from the

 date when the cause of action first accrued. According to the petitioners, for

 relief of declaration as per Article 58 , time fixed is three years, when the right

 to sue first accrues. The plaintiffs are claiming the relief based on two Power of

 Attorneys dated 14.06.1982 and 19.07.1982 and two Power of Attorneys both

 dated 06.09.1982, sale deeds starting from 21.08.1982 and approval of lay out

 by 30th defendant on 30.03.1988 but present suit is filed only in February, 1992

 and hence, the suit is barred by limitation. On the other hand, it is the case of

 the respondents that suit relates to immovable property and only Articles 64 and 65 of the Limitation Act are applicable. The declaration mentioned in Article 58 of the Limitation Act does not apply to a suit for immovable

 property. The respondents also contend that limitation is mixed question of law

 and fact which can be decided only after considering the evidence let in by the

 parties during trial. To decide the issue whether suit is barred by limitation or

 not, Articles 58 , 64 and 65 of the Limitation Act are extracted herein for easy

 reference: 72/79 immovable property based on
 previous possession and not
 on title, when the plaintiff
 while in possession of the
 property has been
 dispossessed. 65.For possession of Twelve years When the possession of the
 immovable property or any defendant becomes adverse
 interest therein based on title. to the plaintiff. 24.Article 58 is under Part III - “Suits relating to declarations”. There

 are three Articles in Part III viz., 56, 57 and 58. Articles 56 and 57 render to

 declare the forgery of an instrument issued or registered and to obtain a

 declaration that an alleged adoption is invalid or never, in fact, took place

 respectively. Article 58 is to obtain any other declaration. Article 58 is a

 residue Article of declaratory suit and all suits for declaration other than those

 provided in Articles 56 and 57. Article 58 has not excluded the declaration of

 title to immovable property with consequential relief of permanent injunction.

 A suit for declaration of title, without seeking consequential relief of

 possession, is covered by this Article 58 only. The limitation prescribed under

 this Article is three years, when the right to sue first accrues. In the present 73/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 case, according to the plaintiffs, they agreed to sell only 1 acre 80 cents out of

 2 acres 32 cents and 1st defendant also offered to purchase only 1 acre 80

 cents. The plaintiffs, in the year 1982, executed four Power of Attorneys,

 authorizing one P.Ramsamy, President of 1st defendant's Society and 2nd

 defendant as their Agents, to sell only 1 acre 80 cents, whereas 1st defendant

 and Office Bearers dealt with entire 2 acres 32 cents and lay out was approved

 by 30th defendant, covering entire 2 acres 32 cents on 30.03.1988. Various sale

 deeds were executed from 21.08.1982. The averments made in the plaint

 clearly show that cause of action for the present declaration of title accrued in

 the year 1982 itself and in any event, on 30.03.1988, when 30 th defendant

 approved the lay out. The plaintiffs, as per Article 58 of the Limitation Act ,

 ought to have filed a suit within 3 years, when the cause of action first accrued.

 The suit filed on February, 1992, for declaration of title and consequential

 permanent injunction on the face of averments made in the plaint is clearly

 barred by limitation. 25.The contention of the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

 respondents that Article 58 is not applicable to the reliefs sought for in the suit

 and only Articles 64 and 65 are applicable as reliefs relate to immovable 74/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 property and period of limitation is 12 years from the date when cause of action

 accrued, is without merits. Both the Articles 64 and 65 relate to suits for

 possession of immovable property. As per Article 64 , when the plaintiff is

 dispossessed from the immovable property, he can maintain a suit within 12

 years from the date of dispossession, whether he has title to the said property

 or not. Article 65 relates to suit for possession of immovable property or any

 interest thereon based on title. The limitation is 12 years, when possession of

 the defendant becomes adverse to the plaintiffs. In the present suit, the

 plaintiffs 1 and 2 have not claimed the relif of possession even though in

 paragraph 111 of the plaint they have stated that “plaintiffs are obliged to file a

 suit for declaration and for consequential possession and injunction against the

 defendants for the relief as detailed in the prayer”. The plaintiffs 1 and 2 have

 filed the suit only for declaration of title and permanent injunction. Therefore, Article 58 of the Limitation Act applies and plaintiffs ought to have filed the

 suit within three years from the date when the cause of action first accrued. The

 present suit filed in February, 1992, on the face of it, is barred by limitation. 26.The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents contended

 that question of limitation is a mixed question of fact and law and the same can 75/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 be decided only based on the evidence let in by the parties during trial. This

 preposition of law is not applicable to each and every case. When the

 statement, as made in the plaint, without any doubt or dispute shows that suit is

 barred by law, then provision of Order VII Rule 11 of Code of Civil Procedure applies. The procedure contemplated under Order VII Rule 11 of Code of Civil

 Procedure is summary prceedings. In the said Rule, sub-rule (d) is incorporated

 for rejection of plaint, while the suit appears from the statement in the plaint is

 barred by any law. When such a right is granted to the defendant to seek for

 rejection of plaint when the suit is barred by any law in a summary

 proceedings, defendant cannot be directed to undergo full fledged trial. If

 question of limitation can be determined only after trial in all cases, then sub-

 rule 11 (d) in Order VII of Code of Civil Procedure is redundant. It is to be

 taken note of that when a plaint is presented in a Court, the said Court has to

 consider whether suit is in order and maintainable. If Court comes to the

 conclusion based on the averments in the plaint that suit is barred by limitation,

 then the Court can reject the plaint without numbering the suit. At that stage,

 without recording any evidence, the plaint can be rejected at the threshold itself

 based on the averments in the plaint. Except the averments in the plaint and

 documents filed along with the plaintiffs, no other materials can be considered. 76/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 But under Order VII Rule 11 of Code of Civil Procedure , a defendant must

 show that as per the averments in the plaint itself the suit is barred by any law.

 The term “any law” in Order VII Rule 11 of Code of Civil Procedure includes

 limitation also and when, from the reading of the plaint it appears that suit is

 barred by limitation, the Court is bound to reject the plaint. In the present case,

 as stated above, a reading of the plaint as a whole, there is no doubt that suit is

 barred by limitation. 27.The judgments relied on by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for

 the respondents do not advance the case of the respondents. In the said

 judgments also, it has been held that Courts can decide the issue by considering

 the averments in the plaint. The judgments relied on by the learned counsel

 appearing for the petitioners are squarely applicable to the facts of the present

 case. 28.The learned Judge, without properly considering the averments in the

 plaint, scope of Order VII Rule 11 (a) and (b) of Code of Civil Procedure and

 law applicable to consider the application under this Rule, on erroneous

 reasoning, dismissed the application. The learned Judge by erroneous 77/79 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.R.P.(PD).No.3454 of 2017 reasoning, committed an error and illegality by dismissing the application. For

 the reasons stated, the impugned order of the learned Judge is liable to be set

 aside and is hereby set aside. I.A.No.7 of 2016 in O.S.No.6324 of 1988 is

 allowed and plaint in O.S.No.6324 of 1988 is rejected. In the result, the Civil Revision Petition is allowed. No costs.

 Consequently, connected Miscellaneous Petition is closed.