Though the prayers in the aforecaptioned Writ Petition (Civil)

are couched in very generalised and wide terms, a perusal of the

pleadings and the materials on record would indicate that in

substance and essence, the main prayer of the Writ Petitioner is to

seek a writ of mandamus to direct the State Police authorities

concerned to entrust the investigation pertaining to Crime No.1377/

2014 of Thrikkakara Police Station, with the 2nd respondent Central

Bureau of Investigation, so as to ensure the conduct of a

comprehensive investigation into the same, etc. It is the case of the

petitioner that some unknown persons, who made contact with him

through telephone, e-mail, etc., have defrauded him to the tune of

about Rs.68 lakhs and that the said money was handed over to them

directly and transferred through bank accounts by the petitioner as

persuaded by such fraudsters. It is the further case of the petitioner

that the investigation on the complaints as per Exts.P-2 to P-6 and

W.P.(C).11125/15 - : 2 :- 2. The 6th respondent Investigating Officer has filed a

detailed statement dated 1.8.2015 in this case, through the learned

State Attorney. Paras 2 to 5 on pages 2 and 3 thereof, read as

follows: from the complainant offering profit in business and later cheated
 him by not giving the assured profit or returning the amount so
 received by them. 3. It is respectfully submitted that considering the grave
 nature of the alleged offence committed, in compliance with Circular
 No.1/13 I took over the investigation of the above crime on
 28.10.2014. For conducting the effective investigation into the above

W.P.(C).11125/15 - : 5 :- 4. Heard the respective Advocates appearing for the various

parties concerned, Sri.P.Vijayaraghavan, the learned State Attorney,

Sri.P.Chandrasekharan Pillai, learned Standing Counsel appearing

for the CBI and Sri.Jacob.P.Alex, learned Amicus Curiae. 5. On a perusal of the pleadings in the Writ Petition and the

materials on record, this Court is inclined to accept the submissions

made in the Amicus Curiae brief. 6. Having regard to the fact that the grievance of the

W.P.(C).11125/15 - : 10 :- 7. The Constitution Bench of the Apex Court in the

aforestated ruling has concurred with the observation of the Apex

Court in the case Secretary, Minor Irrigation & Rural Engineering

Services, U.P. & Ors. v. Sahngoo Ram Arya & Anr. reported in (2002)

W.P.(C).11125/15 - : 11 :- 8. Accordingly, as submitted by the learned Amicus Curiae,

this Court is inclined to consider the entrustment of the

investigation of the crime with the State Police, Crime Branch, Crime

Investigation Department (CBCID). It is also brought to notice that

the State Police authorities is having a Hi-Tech Crime Enquiry Cell

(HTCEC), which is a formal set up relating to handling of Cyber

Crime and other techno based crimes, in Kerala Police and it is said

to comprise of highly trained personnel, who have been trained in

Cyber Forensics by the C-DAC (Centre for the Development of

Advanced Computing) and they are equipped with the state-of-the-

art hardware and software to handle any kind of Cyber Crime. It is

also pointed out in the Amicus Curiae Brief that perusal of the

website of HTCEC shows that it provides technological assistance to

investigation agencies and had experience in handling financial

crimes involving cheating, credit card frauds, money laundering, etc.

 Nigerian Scams/Online cheating etc. are crimes said to have been

W.P.(C).11125/15 - : 12 :- 9. In view of these aspects, the following directions are

issued: Director General of Police (Crimes) and the said officer shall closely and
 intensely monitor and supervise the said further investigation. The Addl.
 D.G. of Police (Crimes) will also ensure that a senior Police officer is
 made available to be part of the investigation team, who is well-versed in
 Hindi language, preferably an IPS officer, who is well conversant with
 Hindi language, as a member of the investigation team so that there
 could be close co-ordination and liaison with the Police personnel of
 outside States, especially in Delhi, etc. (iii) Addl. D.G. of Police (Crimes) should also have overall control and
 supervision of the further investigation as directed above. The
 investigation team will submit monthly reports before the supervisory
 officer concerned with copy to the Addl. D.G. of Police (Crimes) so as to
 facilitate effective and close monitoring and supervision of the
 investigation. Necessary discussion and review of the investigation
 process may be effected by such superior officers on a monthly basis so
 that fruitful and effective results are borne out by the investigation. (iv) The investigation team will ensure that the further investigation as
 directed above is completed without any further delay, preferably within
 a period of ten months from the date of production of a certified copy of
 this judgment. 10. It is made clear that if the Writ Petitioner has any

grievances in the matter, he will be at liberty to raise such

grievances before the Addl. Director General of Police (Crimes), who

will examine such petition/representation that may be submitted by

W.P.(C).11125/15 - : 13 :-