SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. 1. The petitioner, by way of present petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India read with Section 482 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' Cr.P.C .'), seeks issuance of writ of
 certiorari or any other appropriate writ, order or direction for, inter alia, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 685/2023 Page 1 of 10 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:18.09.2023 15:04:39 quashing of FIR bearing no. 101/2022, registered at Police Station
 Cyber Police Station South East, Delhi under Section 420 of Indian
 Penal Code, 1860 (' IPC '). 2. Brief facts of the case are that the present FIR was registered on
 29.08.2022 on the basis of complaint lodged by respondent no. 2, who
 had stated that on 30.03.2022, when he was sitting in his chamber in
 Patiala House Courts, New Delhi, he had obtained the number of Paytm
 customer care i.e. ******5448 from Google and had dialed on the same
 since he was facing some problem with his Paytm account. However,
 the call had got disconnected immediately. It was further stated by the
 complainant that after about one minute, he had received a call from
 another number i.e. ******9448 and the caller had introduced himself
 as customer care executive. It was alleged that by involving him into
 conversation, the caller had hacked the complainant's mobile and had
 defrauded him of Rs.50,000/- which had got deducted from his savings
 bank account in three installments, two of Rs.20,000/- and one of
 Rs.10,000/-. During the course of investigation, it was discovered that
 the amount so deducted from the bank account of the complainant had
 got credited to the bank account maintained by the present petitioner. 3. Praying for quashing of present FIR, learned counsel for the
 petitioner states that no offence is disclosed against the petitioner from
 bare reading of the FIR as none of the mobile numbers mentioned in the
 FIR belong to the petitioner. It is further stated that there is nothing to
 suggest in the Status Report that there was any intention on the part of
 the petitioner to commit the alleged offence in question and no role has
 been attributed to him by the prosecution. It is argued that the amount of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 685/2023 Page 2 of 10 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:18.09.2023 15:04:39 Rs.50,000/- had somehow got credited in the bank account of the
 petitioner without his knowledge, probably due to some technical glitch
 as the petitioner is also a service provider and has an account on Paytm.
 It is stated that petitioner had immediately returned the amount of
 Rs.50,000/- to the respondent no. 2. It is also stated by learned counsel
 for petitioner that the matter has been settled between the parties vide
 compromise deed dated 30.01.2023 and the respondent no. 2 does not
 wish to pursue his complaint. Therefore, it is prayed that FIR be
 quashed. 4. Learned counsel for the complainant/respondent no. 2, on merits,
 states that the matter was not settled in a way as suggested by the
 learned counsel for petitioner and the petitioner had not returned the
 amount immediately, rather, it was only after registration of present FIR
 on 29.08.2022 that the amount was returned to the complainant on
 13.10.2022. However, it is stated that since matter has been
 compromised between the parties, the complainant/respondent no. 2 has
 no objection if the present FIR is quashed. 5. Learned ASC for the State, on the other hand, vehemently
 opposes the present petition and argues that though the complainant
 who is present in Court has no objection to quashing of the FIR, this is a
 case of cyber-fraud and the matter is still at the stage of investigation
 and chargesheet has not yet been filed. It is further submitted, on
 instructions from investigating officer, that during the course of
 investigation, it has been found that an amount of approximately Rs.
 28.17 crores has been credited in the bank account of the petitioner and
 it is to be ascertained whether there have been any other victims of such Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 685/2023 Page 3 of 10 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:18.09.2023 15:04:39 fraud/scam. Therefore, it is argued that present petition be dismissed. 6. This Court has heard arguments addressed by learned counsels
 for petitioner and complainant as well as by learned ASC for the State
 and has perused the material on record. 7. The case of the complainant is that when he had tried calling on a
 Paytm customer care mobile number, which he had obtained from
 Google, the said call had got disconnected. However, immediately
 thereafter, he had received a call from another mobile number and the
 caller had projected himself as the Paytm support executive and during
 the conversation, Rs.50,000/- had got debited from the bank account of
 complainant. 8. As per Status Report on record, a notice was sent to Paytm during
 the course of investigation to obtain details of alleged transaction and it
 was discovered that the cheated amount had got credited to a bank
 account in IDFC Bank, Chandkheda branch, Ahmedabad, Gujarat. After
 serving notice to IDFC Bank, the KYC details of the said bank account
 were obtained and the account was found registered in the name of
 Ganjanand Infotech, Chandkheda, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, whose
 proprietor was Achal Rana i.e. the present petitioner. 9. This Court's attention was drawn towards the fact that during
 investigation, it has been discovered that the petitioner has received
 about Rs.28.17 crores in his bank account and it appears that he may
 have duped several other victims, as in the present case, by way of such
 cyber-fraud. 10. Since the petitioner has sought quashing of FIR on the basis of
 settlement arrived at between him and the complainant, it shall be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 685/2023 Page 4 of 10 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:18.09.2023 15:04:39 apposite to consider the relevant judicial precedents in this regard. 11. In Madan Mohan Abbot v. State of Punjab (2008) 4 SCC 582, it
 was observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court, while quashing an FIR
 registered inter alia under Section 406 of IPC, that Courts can quash an
 FIR on the basis of settlement where the disputes are purely personal
 nature and do not affect the society at large. The relevant observations
 read as under: (Emphasis supplied) 12. Learned counsel for petitioner had also argued that the FIR in
 question pertains only to an offence under Section 420 of IPC and since
 the dispute between two private persons has been settled, the FIR ought
 to be quashed. In this regard, this Court takes note of the observations
 of Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Parbatbhai Aahir v. State of Gujarat (2017) 9 SCC 641, where while laying down principles for quashing of
 FIR in cases of settlement, following principles, relevant for the
 adjudication of present case, were also laid down: (Emphasis supplied) 13. In adjudicating the present matter, it is crucial to weigh the
 competing interests and circumstances that have been brought to the
 knowledge of this Court. The accused, in the present case, has sought
 the quashing of criminal proceedings, primarily asserting that an
 amicable settlement has been reached with the complainant. While the
 principles of quashing of criminal proceedings on the basis of
 settlement are well-settled through catena of judgments of Hon'ble
 Apex Court, it is equally important to scrutinize the nature and gravity
 of the alleged offences well as the wider implications it may have. 14. Upon careful examination of the material placed on record, it
 becomes evident that this case extends beyond the realm of a mere
 private dispute arising out of any commercial transaction or simple
 misdemeanour. 15. A bare reading of the FIR, details of which have already been Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 685/2023 Page 6 of 10 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:18.09.2023 15:04:39 discussed in the preceding paragraphs, prima facie reveals commission
 of cyber-crime/cyber-fraud whereby the amount was surreptitiously
 debited from the bank account of complainant while he was having a
 conversation with an individual presenting himself as a customer care
 executive, who had called the complainant from a mobile number. It
 remains undisputed that the said sum which had got debited from the
 complainant's bank account in Delhi had found its way into a bank
 account held by the petitioner in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. It is also not the
 case of either party that they were known to each other in past or that
 there was any history of previous transactions between them. 16. In today's digital era, cyber-crimes are proliferating at an
 alarming rate, leaving a trail of victims in their wake. Neither are cyber-
 criminals bound by restrictions of borders due to their global reach, nor
 do they discriminate among their victims, thereby targeting the elderly,
 the young, the businesses as well as the governments in the digital
 landscape. The consequences of cyber-crimes go beyond individual
 boundaries, impacting numerous unsuspecting victims. As brought
 to the knowledge of this Court during the course of arguments, the
 investigation so far has revealed that huge amount of money, totalling
 Rs. 28.17 crores has been credited to the bank account of present
 petitioner and it is to be investigated whether this amount also has been
 obtained through such illegal and fraudulent means and whether there
 are other victims of such cyber-fraud. The gravity of such allegations
 cannot be undermined, as they not only jeopardize the financial security
 and trust of individuals on financial payment gateways/platforms, but
 also potentially expose the broader public to similar threats. 17. In the present petition, reliance has also been placed on the
 decision of Hon'ble Apex Court in case of State of Haryana v. Bhajan
 Lal 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 to contend that apart from the fact that
 matter has been settled between the parties, the allegations in the FIR
 are so absurd and inherently improbable that no offence can be made
 out against the petitioner. The guidelines for quashing of FIR, as laid
 down in case of Bhajan Lal (supra) read as under: 18. At the cost of repetition, it is to be noted that the FIR contains the
 account of the incident and the details as to how the complainant was
 duped of Rs.50,000/-, and pursuant to conduct of investigation, it was
 discovered that the amount in question had got transferred directly to
 the bank account maintained by the petitioner herein. The petitioner has
 himself not disputed the factum of having received such amount in his
 bank account. Thus, neither the allegations levelled in the FIR are
 absurd or improbable nor it can be held at this stage that no offence is
 disclosed against the petitioner from the perusal of FIR and the
 investigation conducted so far. Therefore, even considering the
 guidelines for quashing of FIRs as laid down in decision of Bhajan Lal (supra) as well as Neeharika Infrastructure v. State of Maharashtra 2021 SCC OnLine 315, no grounds exist for quashing of present FIR
 even on merits. 19. Therefore, considering the nature of the offence, the modus
 operandi adopted by the accused as discernible from the contents of
 FIR which indicates towards commission of a cyber-fraud, and the
 possibility of more victims having fallen pray to such cyber-fraud for
 which investigation is being carried out by the investigating agency, this
 Court does not deem it appropriate to quash the present FIR, when even
 the investigation has not been complete and chargesheet has yet not
 been prepared and filed. 20. Accordingly, the present petition stands dismissed along with
 pending application. 21. Nothing expressed hereinabove shall tantamount to an expression
 of opinion on merits of the case. 22. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 SEPTEMBER 13, 2023/zp Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 685/2023 Page 10 of 10 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:18.09.2023 15:04:39