(Per Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar)

W.P.No.127 of 2020 was filed as Public Interest Litigation with a
prayer to declare the action of the respondents, particularly, respondent
No.2, Principal Secretary to Government of Andhra Pradesh, Municipal
Administration and Urban Development Department in issuing Notice
Inviting Offer (NIO) to Outright Sale of land Parcels/Land Assets on behalf
of Mission Build AP, Government of Andhra Pradesh, available at Guntur
and Visakhapatnam Districts of Andhra Pradesh "as is where is" basis
through E-auction vide NIO No.NBCC/GM-AP/AP LM-1/2020/1 calling for
applications as highly illegal, arbitrary, and consequently made a prayer

to set aside NIO No.NBCC/GM-AP/AP LM-1/2020/1. 2. The present writ petition was firstly taken up by a Division Bench
of this Court comprising Hon'ble Sri Justice A.V.Sesha Sai and Hon'ble Sri
Justice B.Krishna Mohan and a Bench of this Court while granting time for
filing counter affidavit, passed an interim order restraining finalization of
the bidding process. The said writ petition was thereafter taken up on
number of dates and the interim order was extended from time to time.
In the meanwhile, other similar writ petitions were filed questioning the
act of the State regarding selling/transferring of the Government land

through auction; and, as such, those cases were tagged together, by
 

order, dated 18.09.2020. The aforesaid matter was; taken up on
11.12.2020 and the docket shows that it was directed to be listed on
17.12.2020. Thereafter, on 16.12.2020, Sri Sudhakar Reddy, learned
Additional Advocate General informed that in the aforesaid batch cases,
earlier, he had filed a petition for recusal of one of the Members of the
Bench (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar) from the case. He informed
that earlier office had returned the said petition with some objection
and after correcting the same, he has again re-presented the same
before the Registry. Accordingly, the Registry was directed to place the
said petition on 21.12.2020. On 21.12.2020, | (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh
Kumar) was sitting with Hon'ble Ms. Justice J.Uma Devi. On the date, on
perusal of the said interlocutory application, i.e., IASR No.37122 of 2020,
we noticed that 'In paragraph No.4 of the petition, it was indicated that
on 11.12.2020 while | (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar) was sitting
with my learned brother (Hon'ble Sri Justice D.Ramesh), had made some
oral observation. On 21.12.2020, it was recorded "At the moment, we
are not certifying regarding such observation but, only for examining
such prayer, direction has been given to entertain this interlocutory
application. Put up this case on 28.12.2020, if | am sitting with Hon'ble
Sri Justice D.Ramesh, subject to approval by the Hon'ble The Chief
Justice. However, learned counsel for the petitioner is granted liberty
that if he wants to file any response to this interlocutory application, it

may be filed by 23.12.2020." 3. In view of order, dated 21.12.2020, WP (PIL) 127 of 2020 and other
connected writ petitions were taken up. On the date, i.e., 28.12.2020,
learned Additional Advocate General submitted that the present petition,

i.e., IASR 37122 of 2020 may be treated as petition in other connected
 

writ petitions. This Court, accordingly, directed that the said
interlocutory application shall be treated as petition filed in all the
aforesaid writ petitions. The order, dated 28.12.2020, is quoted herein

below: 4, At the time of hearing, learned Additional Advocate General had

referred to statement made in paragraph No.4 of the affidavit filed in
 

support of IASR 37122 of 2020 and highlighted that one of the Members of
the Division Bench, (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar) had made

particular observation, which is quoted herein below: 5. Sri Sudhakar Reddy, learned Additional Advocate General
reiterated that on earlier occasion also such an observation was made
and accordingly, he tried to persuade the Court that one of the Members
of the Bench (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar) may recuse from hearing

this proceeding. 6. At the time of hearing of this petition, learned counsel for the

petitioners had placed enclosures which have been brought on record
 

along with the petition; most of those documents are photocopy of the
paper cuttings. Sri B.Nalin Kumar, learned counsel appearing for the
petitioner in W.P (PIL) 132 of 2020 and Sri Narra Srinivasa Rao, learned
counsel appearing for the petitioner in W.P (PIL) 127 of 2020 after
placing those enclosures emphatically stated that in none of the news
papers, the afore such observation was quoted as has been alleged and
quoted in paragraph No.4 of the affidavit filed by the petitioner/
respondent No.5. They have argued that the very act of the deponent of
this petition who is a senior officer of the State of Andhra Pradesh is
nothing but maligning the judiciary and undermining it and the same is
contemptuous. Besides this, they have argued that the deponent of this
petition has made an incorrect and false statement on oath and as such,

he may be dealt with severely. 7. We have heard the learned Additional Advocate General as well as
learned counsel for the respondents/writ petitioners and prima facie we
are of the considered opinion that the act of the State by way of filing
such petition supported by an affidavit by the petitioner/respondent
No.5 is a derogatory act and it is also a contemptuous act. However,
before coming to the final conclusion as to whether one of the Members
of this Bench (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar) should pass an order for
his recusal or deprecate the conduct of the State, it would be apt to
record that it is unfortunate that such a petition has been filed not by a
private party, but on behalf of the State. It is well known that primarily
the function of the High Court while exercising jurisdiction under Article
226/227 of the Constitution of India is to protect and enforce
fundamental right of a citizen if it is infringed or taken away by the

State. This is the main protection lying in the hands of citizen against
 

the unauthorized or illegal act of a State. If ina situation, the High
Court proceed to hear a petition and during hearing, the (Court wants to

get any of the doubts occurring in the mind of the Court! to be cleared,

 

certainly, it is the right of the Court to ask certain questions. It is not
untrue that one of the Members of this Bench (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh
Kumar) had not questioned as to whether there was financial crunch or
emergency that the State was intending to transferring the title of the
State land by way of auction sale, that too, for generating fund. Without
commenting on the merit of the case, prima facie some doubt arose in
the mind of the Court that whether an elected Government, which is
elected for only five years, can have a right to transfer title of land of
the State. If it is the property of the State, certainly every citizen of the
State has got some interest in such property and being trustee, that too,
for five years, the Government may not either sell or transfer title of the
property. If it is not objected in that event there is possibility that a
time may come when the State will be termed as a State without land.
All those doubts were going in the mind of the Court, and as such, the
Court (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar) wanted to know regarding the
financial condition of the State. It is not a case that interim order was
granted by a Bench in which | (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar) was one
of the Members. After the interim order was passed by a Coordinate
Bench of this Court, the Bench presided over by me (Hon'ble Sri Justice
Rakesh Kumar) had taken up the matter on several dates. Counter
affidavits were also filed. But, final hearing was yet to commence. In

the meanwhile, the aforesaid interlocutory application was filed. 8. Honesty, integrity, sincerity, fearlessness and impartiality all are

essence of judicial system in general and Judges in particular. If any
 

question is raised without any reasonable basis in respect of either of
aforesaid essence on the face of a Judge, that too, in a judicial
proceeding, the Judge has every right to refer to any undisputed fact
even not on record of the said proceeding in his defence. A Judge has
got no platform to show his impartiality and other aforesaid essence.
While on oath as a Judge, we cannot even go to media for our defence.
But, at the same time with a view to dispel any doubt supposed to be
created in the mind of citizen in general against the judicial system, it is
the duty cast on a Judge to uphold the majesty of law and take initiation
against such person making such allegation without any reasonable basis.
In any event, no one has got any authority to raise such question before a
Judge in a proceeding, in a case where such aggrieved person is having
remedy to challenge such alleged act before larger Bench/Court higher
than such Court etc. Any such deviation and venturing to malign a Judge
without reasonable and sound basis amounts to commission of

contemptuous act and is liable to be punished in accordance with law. 9. Now-a-days, a very disturbing trend has developed in our system.
If one is influential, powerful , i.e., both in money and muscle, he feels
that he is having every privilege to do anything as per his convenience

and to the peril of system or poor citizen. 10. 'If it is a question of protection of right of a citizen as per mandate
of the Constitution of India, being a Judge of a High Court, it is our
primary duty to come forward and examine the right of citizen in which
cause of action even partly arose within the jurisdiction of such High
Court, and endeavour to get such right enforced. It is mandate and

declaration of our Constitution of India that no State shall make any law,
 

which takes away or abridges the right of a citizen conferred by Part Ill
of the Constitution of India and any law made in contravention of this
provision to the extent of the contravention, shall be termed as 'void'. Article 13(2) of the Constitution of India is very explicit. In a case of
infringement of such right, a citizen is having remedy to approach a High
Court invoking its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of
India or under Article 32 of the Constitution before the Hdn'ble Supreme
Court. However, in the present situation,-which is prevailing in the State
of Andhra Pradesh, with heavy heart, | may not refrain to record that
protection of fundamental rights of citizens of the State of Andhra
Pradesh by this Court has become very difficult. | have noticed blatant
violation rather encroachment over the right of citizen granted under Articles 21 and 22 of the Constitution of India. As a Judge, | have come
across several writ petitions with complaint that persons, without
following due process of law, were picked up by the State through its
police. After filing of the writ petition for issuance of writ of Habeas
Corpus, either they are released or produced for his/their remand. Even
on the direction of this Court in some cases, judicial enquiries were
conducted in which allegation of illegal detention was found true. The
learned counsel, in one case, who was associated with the proceeding
before this Court in a writ of Habeas Corpus, was not even spared by the
police. For about one and half an hour, he was detained and early in the
morning, learned Advocate's house was searched, that too, without any
authorization by the Magistrate or following any procedure as prescribed
by the law. All the aforesaid facts were stated by the learned counsel
on oath by filing an affidavit. It was not end in the matter. In the said

writ petition, a Division Bench of this Court, presided over by me
 

(Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar), the Director General of Police,
Andhra Pradesh (hereinafter referred to as 'DGP') was summoned
regarding enforcement of rule of law in the State of A.P., in view of the
law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in D.K.Basu V. State of
West Bengal ' and subsequent amendments in the Code of Criminal
Procedure , 1973. The DGP gave assurance for educating its force.
However, within no delay from such an assurance given by the DGP, a
further affidavit was filed on behalf of detenu regarding threatening to
detenu and learned counsel for withdrawal of the writ petition. The said
writ petition, i.e., W.P.No.17209 of 2019 is a lead case of such batch
cases in which the State of Andhra Pradesh has preferred an appeal
before the Hon'ble Supreme Court and the Hon'ble Supreme Court has
been pleased to direct stay of further proceedings pending before this
Court. Several such writ petitions were withdrawn while proceedings in
those cases were continuing before this Court. One can draw an adverse
inference against the acts/excesses by the police in the State of Andhra

Pradesh. 11. Besides the aforesaid situation, | have come across number of cases
in which the writ petitioners had complained regarding their
apprehension of dispossession from the land on which they were having
possession and title too, without following due process of law and
following principles of natural justice. Several such writ petitions have
been disposed of in which the learned Government Pleader had agreed
for disposal with an observation that the petitioner may not be

dispossessed without following due Process of law. * AIR 1997 SC 610 10 12. One may not forget that this is only State, where the Hon'ble A.P
Legislative Council when had not agreed to proceed with the tune of
Hon'ble Legislative Assembly's decision regarding establishment of three
capitals in one State, the Government of Andhra Pradesh recommended
for abolition of Legislative Council itself. Even the office of State
Election Commissioner, which is one of the Constitutional organs, was not
spared, since the State Election Commissioner was not proceeding as per

the wishes of the State Government. | 13. To some extent after getting success in overreaching and
undermining two Constitutional Bodies, i.e., Legislative Council and the
State Election Commission, it was the turn of highest Court in the State
of Andhra Pradesh, i.e., High Court of Andhra Pradesh (hereinafter
referred to as 'AP High Court'). The AP High Court, with a view to
protect the right of citizen has passed number of orders setting aside
incorrect or unsustainable orders passed by Government of Andhra
Pradesh. In the month of April, 2020, one of the Benches of this Court
quashed Government Order regarding introduction of English Medium in
Schools as compulsory subject and thereafter, social media was flooded
with insulting and even abusive posts against this Hon'ble Court and one
of the Hon'ble Judges of this Court. The Registrar General of AP High
Court filed a complaint before the Superintendent of Police, CID, Cyber
Crimes, and FIR was registered, no appropriate interest was shown by the
Andhra Pradesh police. Again in the month of May, 2020, some stringent
orders were passed against action/inaction on the part of the
Government of Andhra Pradesh and thereafter, besides others claiming to
be party supporter in power and one of the Hon'ble Member of

Parliament had come against the High Court and its Judges. The Hon'ble 11 Member of Parliament went to the party office and gave interview in
which he passed scathing and contemptuous comments against the AP
High Court and its Judges. Again, the Registrar General of AP High Court
filed an official complaint to the Superintendent of Police, CID, Cyber
Crimes, on 24.05.2020, giving details and naming nineteen (19) persons
as accused. Though the complaint showing cognizable offences was
submitted by the Registrar General on 24.05.2020, belatedly, on
26.05.2020, two FIRs were registered, that too, by way of truncated
written complaint, dated 24.05.2020, of the Registrar General, AP High
Court. Thereafter, much belatedly, other FIRs were also registered on
one complaint. Surprisingly, in all those FIRs, main accused persons,
particularly, Hon'ble Member of Parliament was not arrayed as an
accused in the 'accused' column of the FIR. The Andhra Pradesh police
virtually indulged in a practice to protect the accused and even after
registering FIRs did not show any adequate progress save and except
showing paper or table work. At the same time, however, on the other
hand, there are several instances in which if an adverse comment is
made against the Government or its functionaries, without any delay,
Andhra Pradesh police is registering FIR and even arresting the so called
accused persons. Since on complaint of Registrar General, AP High
Court, no adequate progress was going on, the AP High Court, on its
administrative side, took a decision to initiate proceeding and a writ
petition, vide W.P.No.9166 of 2020, was filed in which lastly, by order,
dated 12.10.2020, the Central Bureau of Investigation, was directed to
take up investigation and examine larger conspiracy. The order, dated

12.10.2020, passed in W.P.No.9166 of 2020 is reproduced herein below: 13 |

B. To declare the action of the Respondent Nos.7-9 & 19, more
particularly, Respondent Nos.9 & 19, in failing to act against the
Respondent Nos. 10 to 18, where under social networking platforms are
being utilized and abused for creating ill-will and hatred against the
petitioner herein in the mind and eye of the Public, as being illegal,
arbitrary, unconstitutional and in violation of provisions of IPC , Cr.P.C and !|. T Act, 2000 , thereby securing protection to the Judiciary, and

C. To declare the action of the Respondent Nos. 7 to 9 and 19 in
failing to frame guidelines for the intermediaries in compliance of
Section 79(2)(c) read with Section 87(2)(zg) of the Information
Technology Act which authorizes the Respondent Nos.7 to 9 and 19 to
prescribe guidelines to intermediaries, thereby securing certain
protection to the Judiciary, and

D. Consequently, in the alternative, transfer the investigation in
FIR No.16/2020 dated 16.04.2020 and FIR No.17/2020 dated
18.04.2020 to any other competent investigating Agency under the
supervision and control of Respondent No.7, or direct the Respondent
Nos.2 to 5 to act progressively and take necessary steps pursuant to
the registration of said FIRs and

E. Consequently, to direct Respondent Nos.7 to 9 to frame
guidelines for the intermediaries in compliance of Section 79(2)(c)
read with Section 87(2)(zg) of the Information Technology Act which
authorizes the Respondent Nos.7 to 9 to prescribe guidelines to
intermediaries. F. Consequently, to direct the respondent Nos.10 to 18 to devise
self-regulatory framework to prohibit the posting of defamatory,
incriminatory and abusive contents on their respective platforms with
respect to Judiciary in India, and

G. Consequently to direct the Respondent Nos.10 to 18 to
forthwith remove all such posts/comments/tweets/videos and those
contents which are defamatory, incriminatory and abusive in nature
pertaining to this Hon'ble Court as reported in the said FIR
No. 16/2020 dated 16.04.2020 and FIR No.17/2020 dated 18.04.2020 on
the file of Respondent No.6, in consultation with the petitioner herein
and further desist and cease any such posts/comments/tweets/videos
and those contents which are defamatory, incriminatory and abusive
in nature pertaining to this Hon'ble Court, and

H, Consequently to direct the Respondent Nos.7 to 9 and 19 to
frame, formulate and promulgate Uniform Guideline/ Regulations to
protect the image, reputation and sanctity of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India and the Hon'ble High Courts of all States in India, and
also, the Hon'ble Judges of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India and
Hon'ble Judges of the Hon'ble High Courts of all States in India, and
also the paraphernalia attached to the Hon'ble Courts, from any sort
of attack through the print, electronic and social networking media,
or in a manner of insulting, threatening, derogatory, discriminatory,
provocative in nature or even such that it incites and encourages use
of violence, either through social media or any other forum 'or
platform, by appropriately amending the statutes and penal laws
governing the print and electronic media." 4. Even after filing of the two complaints by the Registrar General of High
Court of Andhra Pradesh; one on 16.04.2020 and another complaint, dated
17.04.2020, culminating to registration of two Crimes, vide Crime No.16 of
2020 and Crime No. 17 of 2020 registered for the offences under Sections 505
(2) and 506 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, instead of decline in posting
defamatory posts on social. media, it started increasing. Earlier, two
complaints were filed on noticing defamatory posting against one of the
Hon'ble Judges of this Court, which was posted by one of the alleged accused,
namely, Kondareddydhanireddy, YSRCP, shared by (i) Sudheer Pamula; and (ii) Mani Annapureddy on 15.04.2020. It is evident from running page no.28 of
the main writ petition that a complaint, dated 16.04.2020, made by the
Registrar General to the Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crimes-CID,
Amaravati, that such posts were made due to the reason that the Hon'ble
Judge has quashed the Government Order relating to introduction of English
Medium in schools. Almost, in the same context, again on 17.04.2020, a
written report was submitted under the signature of the Registrar General to
the Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crimes, CID, disclosing cognizable
offences against the accused persons on an allegation of posting on social
media. Two FIRs were lodged; one on 16.04.2020 itself; and second on
18.04.2020. Subsequently, again there were number of posts on social media
against the Judges of the High Court, Hon'ble Supreme Court and including
High Court itself. Again immediately thereafter, one another written report
was filed by the Registrar General of the High Court on 24.05.2020 addressed
to the Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crimes, CID. This time again, the
Court and the Judges were abused in view of some of the orders passed by this

Court. The written report is re-produced herein below: 5. On 22.05.2020, different Benches of this Court had passed different
orders in Suo Moto PIL 124 of 2020, WP(PIL) 110 of 2020, WP(PIL) No.101 of
2020, WP(PIL) 177 of 2019, WP(PIL) 183 of 2019 and WP No.8185 of 2020, which
were passed against the orders and actions of the State Government and its
functionaries. Immediately thereafter, the social media was flooded with
objectionable posts. Even the persons occupying high position went to the
media and gave interviews against the High Court and its Judges, that too,
from the party office belonging to a political party, which is in power.
Accordingly, this was the reason for filing written report/complaint by the
Registrar General for registering FIR. 6. In the present writ petition, earlier on notice, almost all the
respondents had entered appearance and on behalf of most of the private
respondents, which includes Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Whatsapp, Google,
Youtube etc., interlocutory applications were filed for their deletion on some
grounds. While those petitions were pending, one another interlocutory
application was filed on behalf of the petitioner, which was numbered as
].A.No.20 of 2020. The petitioner also sought for amendment of
pleadings/averments raised in the interlocutory application by incorporating
paragraphs 8 (A) to 8(I), which are as follows: 8. It is submitted that the 5' respondent after receipt of the
above complaint has registered Crime Nos.9, 10, 11, 12, 26, 27, 28,
29, 30 and 31 of 2020 on various dates. However, no proper action as
mandated under Code of Criminal Procedure has been taken against
the Accused till date by the Respondent Nos.4 to 6. The inaction
against those miscreants who chose to attack the Judiciary and are

treating the Constitutional Institution as vulnerable and defenseless. 8D. The writ petitioner reserves the right to file a detailed
rejoinder to the Counter Affidavits filed by the Respondent Nos.4 to
6, but nevertheless, it is respectfully submitted that the Respondent
Nos.4 to 6 are absolutely lackadaisical, casual and averse to act
promptly and swiftly against those social media
users/posters/tweeters who are taking pride in attacking the Judiciary
and who are visible on every day basis for the prosecution to take
notice. It is further submitted that a prominent politician issued a
statement that the social media users affiliated to his political party
will be protected; statements and support of this nature seems to be
embolden the social media users who are taking fancy to launch
scathing attack against the Judiciary at personal level, which is
causing severe distress and insecure feeling & fear to the family

members of the Judiciary. 8E. It is submitted that causing further distress to the Hon'ble
High Court Judges and the Judiciary fraternity, certain key personnel
of the current dispensation of the State of Andhra Pradesh, had 19 passed deplorable and painful comments on the functioning of the
Hon'ble High Court of AP and judgments delivered. Such comments
from the key personnel who are occupying posts of prominences,
authoritative and constitutional in nature, in the State of A.P.,
targeting the Hon'ble Judges had severely affected the reputation of
Judiciary as an independent institution. The relevant documents are
filed for perusal. . 8F. It is submitted that the above comments made were widely
published in the print, electronic and social media and there which
has seriously affected the independence, sanctity and reverence of
the Constitutional identity of this Hon'ble Court. Such uncalled and
unnecessary statements by a person holding a constitutional post has
tended support to the people who were personally targeting the

judges by making abusive and threatening comments. 8G. It is submitted that to aggravate the prevailing attack on the
Hon'ble High Court and the Hon'ble Judges, Member of Parliament
(Rajya Sabha) and General Secretary of Yuvajana Sramika Rythu
Congress Party made comments on 19.09.2020 against the Judicial
Officer, that too, paved during the course of dispensation of justice
and which can be tested before an Appellate Court. Thus, it appears
that a concerted effort has been made to malign the institution,
having larger conspiracy. The police is also in their control, and are

not taking adequate action as required. 8H. in fact, on the contrary, to elaborate further, it is
respectfully submitted that whenever comments made against the
current Government functionaries several cases have been registered
even basing on the complaints of unrelated persons and the
Police/Investigating Agencies promptly arrested such accused persons
in some cases and the Investigating Agencies have been evincing
interest in proceeding with only those matters. The details of some of

the cases which are registered against the said persons are as follows: Thus, the Judiciary requires protection, and the following are

the reasons that show the need of broader protection of the Judiciary

against the unfair and unwarranted criticism from Media and Public

review: Abusive criticism undermines public confidence in the

legal system and administration of justice. 2. Shielding judges from criticism serves an important public

interest of protection of judicial independence. 3. Protective standards ensure a smooth administration of
Justice. 4, It is known fact that judges by the nature of their work

cannot defend themselves since they are barred from replying to their
criticism. In other words, "judges can't fight back'. 5. Constitutional maturity has now secured judges' place in
the society and accordingly specific protection to judges is viewed as
patronizing to a highly professional and well trained group of public

officials," 10. Learned Advocate General, though agreed for entrustment of
investigation to other investigating agency, has raised serious objection on the .
submissions made by the learned counsel for the petitioner, particularly, to
the point where he had referred certain documents to show the statements
made by the Hon'ble Speaker, Hon'ble Deputy Chief Minister and Hon'ble
Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) on the ground that they were not arrayed
as parties in the writ petition nor those facts have been corroborated. He
further submitted that there were many discrepancies in the translated

version of the documents referred hereinabove. 11. Be that as it may, it is clarified that this Court has not gone into the
merit of the case and has refrained to record any finding/observations against

either of the parties, which include private parties. 12. Sri S.Niranjan Reddy, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of
respondents 4 to 6/CID, had also consented for entrustment of the
investigation to any other independent investigating agency having more

resources and branches at different places. 13. Sri N.Ashwani Kumar, learned counsel for the petitioner, submitted
that the CID is taking an entirely different stand in cases related to attack
made on the High Court and it's Judges; and, in case of any such comment 23 made against the Government. By way of referring to paragraph 8H mentioned
hereinabove, he highlighted that in cases of offensive posts against the
Government and complaints filed by any one those were registered as FIR on
the same date; and, in some cases immediately accused persons were also
arrested. But in case of offensive posts against the Judiciary, respondents 4 to
6 (CID) are casual and lackadaisical. He tried to persuade the Court that the
aforesaid conduct of the CID makes it clear that they are not proceeding with

the investigation in.an impartial manner. 14, Sri N.Ashwani Kumar, learned counsel for the petitioner, has taken the
Court to running page Nos.28 and 33, i.e., copies of complaints, dated
16.04.2020, and 17.04.2020, under the signature of the Registrar General
addressed to the Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crimes-CID. He highlighted
that on the said complaints, two FIRs vide Crime No.16 of 2020 was registered
on 16.04.2020 under Sections 505(2) and 506 of IPC against three accused
persons, namely, Mr.Kondareddy Dhamireddy, Mr. Mani Annapureddy and
Mr.Sudheer Pamula. Similarly, Crime No.17 of 2020 was registered on
18.04.2020 against four accused persons, namely, (i) Pattapu Adarsh; (ii) Mani
Annapureddy; (iii) Abhishek Reddy; and, (iv) Siva Reddy, under the same
provisions. He tried to persuade the Court that though on the complaint of
the Registrar General/informant, FIR was registered on 16.04.2020, and on
17.4.2020, his re-statement was recorded much belatedly on 01.05.2020. He
has also referred to paragraph 6 of the writ petition, which is quoted herein

below: 18.04.2020 for offences attracting Sections 505(2) and 506 of IPC,
naming four persons as Accused. The statement of the deponent was
recorded on 01.05.2020 as part of investigation, and the relevant
material was submitted by the deponent to the Respondent No.6.
While the petitioner was awaiting information of the progress of the
investigation, since, the same concerns the image of the Judiciary,
which is one of the three pillars of this democratic Nation; the
Respondent No.5 vide letter dated 13.05.2020 communicates to the
petitioner herein that e-notices were sent to the Nodal Officers of
Respondent Nos.10 and 12, to furnish the registration particulars of

the Facebook accounts of the Accused persons, to establish their 24 identity and to access the IP logs of their respective accounts.
Further, request was made as under Section 79(3) of the IT Act, 2000
to delete the incriminating posts and comments made by the accused
persons and also to preserve the same as under Section 67-C of IT Act,
2000 for the purpose of investigation." 15. Sri N.Ashwani Kumar, learned counsel, has taken the Court to a
document, which is at running page no.46, i.e., letter, dated 13.05.2020, send
by the Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crimes, CID, to the Registrar General,
and tried to persuade the Court that by the said communication, it was
highlighted that the investigating official had sent notices to the Nodal
Officers of the Facebook, Instragram, Twitter International Company to
furnish registration particulars of the Facebook accounts of the accused
persons. However, Facebook gave a reply stating that they require formal
legal process for any records that is issued from a court of competent
jurisdiction and complies with the Stored Communications| Act, 18 U.S.C.
Accordingly, it was communicated in letter, dated 13.05.2020, that letters of
request for Mutual Legal Assistance are being prepared to ¢omply with the
demands made by Facebook. He has placed the reply affidavit filed on
23.09.2020 on behalf of respondent No.9. He has specifically referred to
paragraphs (8) and (11) of the affidavit filed on behalf of respondent No.9
duly sworn by Mr. Dhawal Gupta, Scientist-E/Additional Director in the Cyber
Laws and E-Security Division, Ministry of Electronics and information
Technology, Government of India. It would be better to reproduce paragraphs
(8) and (11) of the said affidavit, which are as follows: 16. Sri Ashwani Kumar, learned counsel for the petitioner, by way of
referring to the aforesaid facts, tried to persuade the Court that the
investigation by respondent No.5-CID was not proceeding in its right
perspective. He has further argued that though on third occasion, on
24.05.2020, when a written report was filed by the Registrar General, which
was received in the office of Superintendent of Police, respondent No.5, on
the same date, to the reasons best known to the respondent No.5, contrary to
the provisions made under Section 154 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973, two days thereafter, one truncated FIR was lodged vide Crime No.9 of
2020 under Sections 153A , 505 (2) and 506 of IPC. He tried to persuade the
Court that in the written report, dated 24.05.2020, which. was under the
signature of the Registrar General, specifically nineteen persons were shown
as accused, namely, (i) Mr. Nandigam Suresh, Member of Parliament, YSRCP; (ii) Mr. Amanchi Krishna Mohan, former MLA of YSRCP; (iii) Mr. Metta Chandra
Sekhar Rao, learned Standing Counsel for A.P. State Legislative Assembly; (iv) Mr. Kalanidhi Gopala Krishna, Advocate; (v) Mr.Kishore Reddy Darisa; (vi) Mr. Chandra Reddy; (vii) Mr. G.Sridhar Reddy; (viii) Mr. Jelagam Venkata
Satyanarayana; (ix) Mr. Arjun Ganji; (x) Mr. Sridhar Reddy Avuthu; (xi) Mr. Ramanjaneya Reddy; (xii) Mr. Satish Kumar; (xiii) Mrs. Gowthumi kK; (xiv) Mr. Linga Reddy; (xv) Dr. Ravi Kumar; (xvi) Mr. Samir Rathod;
(xvii) Mr. Seenu P; (xviii) Mr. Ramesh Gunta; and, (xix) Mr. Chiranjeevi. To the
reasons best known to respondent Nos.4 and 5, one FIR was lodged on
26.05.2020 vide Crime No.9 of 2020 incorporating the nah

accused in the 'accused' column of the FIR. Similarly, according to the

e of only one

learned counsel for the petitioner, other nine FIRs were lodged on the basis of
one written report, dated 24.05.2020, filed by the Registrar General.
However, the respondent/CID selectively had arrayed only few persons whose
names were appearing in the written complaint, dated 24.05.2020, as accused
in the FIR. He tried to persuade the Court that from the very inception the
CID started to shield/save the accused persons who were influential, i.e., one
Member of Parliament, Member of Legislative Assembly and one Standing
Counsel for A.P. State Legislative Assembly and some other accused persons.
An allegation was made that despite registration of altogether twelve FIRs, in

none of the cases, investigation proceeded in its right perspective. 17. Sri Ashwani Kumar, by way of referring to number of documents
brought on record through |.A.No.20 of 2020, which has been directed to be
treated as part of the writ petition, has argued that the attack on Judiciary is

continuously increasing with impunity. He has referred to some documents of 27 running page Nos.21 to 29 and Page No.43 of |.A.No.20 of 2020 relating to
certain news items and tried to persuade the Court that even the sitting
Hon'ble Speaker of Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly and the Hon'ble
Deputy Chief Minister have also not restrained themselves in making scathing
remarks against the Judiciary. He further, by way of referring to running page
No.40 of the petition, has argued that one Hon'ble Member of Rajya Sabha,
namely, Sri Vijayasai Reddy, has joined together in a move to make scathing

remarks against the High Court. 18. By way of referring to aforesaid facts, learned counsel for the
petitioner tried to persuade the Court that against the Judiciary, which is one
of the main pillars of the democracy, such scathing attack is being made with
impunity, which requires immediate intervention and thorough investigation;
and, as such, it was prayed to entrust the investigation into the aforesaid
matter to an independent investigating agency. He further submits that in
view of the fact that the attack has been made by the persons occupying high
positions and associated with the Government, there is no possibility of fair
and independent investigation at the hands of an agency under the control of
the State Government and requested to entrust the case to an independent
and well equipped investigating agency like the CBI. 19. Sri S.Niranjan Reddy, learned senior counsel, has vehemently opposed
the allegation made by the learned counsel for the petitioner. He, by way of
referring to the facts disclosed in the counter affidavit as well as additional
counter affidavit, duly sworn by respondent No.5, highlighted that after
receipt of the complaint, CID has immediately registered the FIR; and, as per
procedure prescribed under the Code of Criminal Procedure as well as Cyber
Laws, they are proceeding with the investigation. According to Sri S. Niranjan
Reddy, learned senior counsel, the allegation of the petitioner that CID is
hand in glove with the accused persons is irrelevant, having no basis, and such
allegation has been made without any such appropriate pleading. However, at
the time of hearing, on being asked by the Court, considering the nature of
the allegations made against one of the pillars of democratic set up, i.e.,
Judiciary, as to what would be the difficulty if the investigation into the
matter is entrusted to an agency, which has got more wider jurisdiction and
having branches in different States with more manpower and more equipped
than the present agency, which has got very limited resources, learned counsel
for respondents have shown no objection. This Court at the time of hearing

had made it clear that in view of facts and circumstances and for better and 28 deep investigation, this Court may not take any notice of allegations which
were made by the learned counsel for the petitioner. Being responsible
officers of the Court, Sri S.Niranjan Reddy, learned senior counsel, appearing
on behalf of respondent Nos.4 to 6, as well as Sri S.Sriram, learned Advocate
General had shown appreciable gesture and all the parties had agreed for
entrusting the investigation to an another investigating agency, well equipped
and having number of branches. Accordingly, without going into the merit of
the case or without recording any observations against either of the parties,
we propose to direct to entrust all the matters to an agency, namely, Central
Bureau of Investigation, which is fairly fit, having wider scope for

investigation as agreed by all the parties. 20. Accordingly, this Court directs to entrust all the FIRs, namely, Crime
Nos. 16 of 2020; 17 of 2020; 26 of 2020; 27 of 2020; 28 of 2020; 29 of 2020; 30
of 2020; 31 of 2020; 9 of 2020; 10 of 2020; 11 of 2020; and, 12 of 2020 of
Cyber Crimes-CID, Amaravati, to the Central Bureau of Investigation through
its Director. Investigation in all the aforesaid FIRs stands transferred to the
Central Bureau of Investigation. The CBI, through its Director, is required to
take up investigation in all the aforesaid FIRs forthwith and proceed with the

same in accordance with law. 21. The Registry is directed to handover the entire material including writ
petition, |.A.No.20 of 2020, with entire enclosures, which jncludes counter
affidavits and other relevant documents as certified to be true copies of them,
to the CBI as and when approached. It goes without saying that on
examination of materials available on record, if other materials disclose
cognizable offences, it would be necessary for the CBI to register more FIRs,
investigate and bring the same to its logical end. While conducting
investigation, it would be necessary to examine as to whether such attacks on
Judiciary were made as a result of larger conspiracy or not. If it is noticed
that it was due to the result of larger conspiracy, the CBI is required to take
appropriate action against such culprits irrespective of the post and position.
It goes without saying that the CBI immediately after taking up investigation
may take steps so that all the defamatory posts available on social media, i.e.,
private respondents, may struck down and may also take steps to block such
users in accordance with law. The Registry is directed to forthwith
communicate a copy of this order to the Director, Central Bureau of

Investigation, New Dethi. 22. The CBI is further directed to submit its report in sealed cover to this
Court within eight weeks from the date of receipt of a copy of this order. 23. The Government of Andhra Pradesh, through its Chief Secretary as well
as the Director General of Police, are directed to ensure full cooperation and
assistance and provide all logistic support, if asked by the CBI. 24. Put up the matter on 14.12.2020." 14. In the present batch of cases in which final hearing is yet to
commence, unceremoniously a petition has been filed, not by the private
party, but on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh, duly sworn by a
senior bureaucrat making some wild allegation against one of the
members of the Division Bench (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar). For a
while | was astonished with such behaviour of State but immediately
thereafter, | perceived that bureaucrats of this State have been
emboldened after apparent success of the Hon'ble Chief Minister of the
State of Andhra Pradesh in addressing a letter to the Hon'ble the Chief
Justice of India and making it public, making allegation against one of
the senior Judges of Hon'ble Supreme Court, the Hon'ble Chief Justice of
A.P High Court and number of sitting Judges of A.P High Court with their

hame. 15. Before dealing with the aspect, certain important facts are
required to be noticed. It is common knowledge that issue regarding
criminalization in politics is in debate since for last decade or more.
With a view to prevent criminals to enter active politics, general steps
are continuing. In the context, Hon'ble Supreme Court, in a case in Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay v. Union of India & Others , is seized of the
matter. Fortunately, the said three Judges Bench of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court is being presided over by a senior-most Judge, namely, 30 Hon'ble Mr. Justice N.V.Ramana with other two Judges. Since the month
of September, 2020, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has taken serious and
vigorous efforts to see that criminal cases pertaining to M.P/M.L.A may
take accelerated speed for its early disposal. In this context, certain
directions were given to the Chief Justices of all the High Courts of the
country including High Court of A.P., Amaravati, and High Court for the
State of Telangana, at Hyderabad. One such important direction was
given by the Hon'ble Supreme Court on 16.09.2020, in Writ Petition

(Civil) No.699 of 2016, which is quoted herein below: The Court is convened through Video Conferencing. 1. This matter of paramount public importance pertaining to inordinately
delayed inquiries/investigation and/or criminal trials, pending against
legislators under various enactments first came up for hearing on 14.09.2016,
when notice was issued. This court had earlier passed various orders intending

streaming and speedy dispensation of justice delivery. 2. In furtherance of the above, by our earlier order dated 10.09.2020, we
sought information from certain High Courts regarding criminal cases pending
against legislators under special legislations such as the Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1988 etc. The operative part of the said order reads as
follows: 3. The revised office report indicates that 11 High Courts have submitted
reports furnishing the information sought by us, with one of the High Courts
having submitted the same only a night before this hearing. The learned
amicus curiae, Mr. Vijay Hansaria, Senior Counsel, has submitted a
supplementary report in addition to his report dated 08.09.2020, on the basis
of the information furnished by 10 of the High Courts. The supplementary
report indicates that there are about 175 cases under the Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1988 and 14 cases are pending under the Prevention of Money
Laundering Act, 2002 against sitting/former legislators (MPs and MLAs). These
are in addition to the 4442 criminal cases indicated to be pending as per the

earlier report of the learned amicus dated 08.09.2020. 4, The learned amicus has recorded his analysis of the data received from
the High Courts in paragraph 3 of his supplementary report, which is

reproduced below: a, There is no uniformity as to the setting up of Special Courts for
MPs/MLAs throughout the country. b. In the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh,
Telangana and West Bengal, there is one Special Court for all cases
against MPs/MLAs. In the State of Telangana apart from Special Court
for MPs/MLAs, cases are also pending before Special Court, CBI. In all
other States, these cases are pending in respective jurisdictional
courts. c. There is also no clarity as to the courts which are trying offences
under Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . For example, in the State of
Madhya Pradesh (where 21 cases are pending) and in Karnataka (where
20 cases are pending) all these cases are pending before Special Judge
(MP/MLA) at Bhopal and Bangaluru respectively. In State of Telangana,
these cases are before Special Judge, CBI at Hyderabad. In Delhi, cases
under Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , registered both by Delhi
Police and by CBI are before the Special Court MP/MLA. Similar is the
situation with regard to offences punishable under Prevention of
Money Laundering Act, 2002 . 5. During the course of the hearing, the learned amicus submitted that

despite the taking up of this matter by this Court, and passing of various 32 orders since 2016, the backlog in pending criminal cases sean sitting/ former
legislators (MPs and MLAs) has not declined. He pointed out numerous reasons

for the same. 6. Firstly, the learned amicus stated that proceedings in a number of cases
have been stayed by the various High Courts. 7. Secondly, the number of Special Courts constituted/designated for the
hearing and disposal of these criminal cases registered against legislators is
grossly insufficient. For instance, States such as Odisha, Jharkhand, Assam and
Goa, do not have a Special Court. In other States such as Madhya Pradesh,
Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana and Maharashtra only one Special

Court has been constituted. 8. Thirdly, he stated that there is a dearth of public prosecutors in these
Courts. Additionally, warrants are not executed and witnesses are often not
summoned. Sometimes, even the concerned authorities do not appear as

required. Resultantly, there are a number of cases still at the stage of
appearance and no effective prosecution is taking place. 9, Fourthly, even though authorities may formally initiate investigations
by registering an FIR, or with a preliminary enquiry by the CBI, or by
registering an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) by the Enforcement
Directorate, these matters are not taken to their logical conclusion, and often
do not even result in the registration of a chargesheet. 10. In order to overcome the aforesaid issues, the learned amicus has
therefore made certain supplementary suggestions, in continuation of his
suggestions already extracted in our order dated 10.09.2020. The

supplementary suggestions are reproduced below: e. Cases involving sitting legislators be given priority over former
legislators. f. No adjournment shall be granted except in rare and exceptional
circumstances on a written application stating the ground of
adjournment and for reasons to be recorded. B. Cases under stay

a. This Hon'ble Court in Asian Resurfacing of Road Agency Pvt. Ltd. Vs.
CBI , 2018 (16) SCC 299, held as under: b. In view of the law laid down in the aforesaid case, trial courts to
proceed with the trial notwithstanding any stay granted by the High - 34

Court unless fresh order is passed extending the stay by recording
reasons. c. In the alternative, Registrar Generals may be directed to place the
matters involving MPs and MLAs before Hon'ble Chief Justice for
appropriate orders for urgent listing of such cases. d. Hon'ble Chief Justice of every High Court may be requested to list
all pending against cases involving MPs and MLAs within 2 weeks before
appropriate Bench; and upon being so listed, the cases will be decided
by the appropriate Bench expeditiously. No adjournment 'shall be
granted except on a written application disclosing the ground and for
reasons to be recorded. C. Nodal Prosecution Officer and Public Prosecutor |

a. Each District will have a Nodal Prosecution Officer, who shall be an
officer not below the rank of Additional Superintendent of Police. The
Nodal Prosecution Officer shall be responsible to ensure. production of
accused persons before the respective courts and the execution of
NBWs issued by the courts. The said officer shall also be responsible
for service of summons to the witnesses, their appearance and
deposition in the courts. Any lapse on the part of, the Nodal
Prosecution Officer will make him/her liable to | disciplinary
proceedings apart from initiation of contempt of court proceedings. b. Forensic laboratories will give priority in furnishing the report in
respect of cases being tried by the Special courts and will submit all
pending reports within one month. c. State Government/UTs will appoint/designate at least two Special
Public Prosecutors for prosecuting cases in the Special Courts in
consultation with District and Sessions Judge in the concerned District. D. Establishment of 'Safe and Secure Witness Examination Room'

The High Courts will also submit a report as to the establishment of
'Safe and Secure Witness Examination Room' in each court complex
with availability of internet facility for the purpose of recording of
evidence of the witnesses through video conferencing. E. Rules for Video Conferencing for Courts

Each High Court may adopt "Rules for Video Conferencing for Courts" 11. The learned Solicitor General, Mr. Tushar Mehta, submitted on behalf
of the Union of India that all the pending cases which have been stayed by the

High Courts, must be concluded within a time bound manner, preferably 35 within one month. He also suggested that the State Governments should
provide necessary infrastructure within one. month, for which the Central
Government has already granted funds. He further brought it to the notice of
this Court, that utilization certificates for the allocated funds have not been
forwarded by the State Governments to the Central Government. The learned
Solicitor General submitted that Central Agencies, like the CBI and the
Enforcement Directorate, will pursue matters effectively and they shall ensure
that any pending investigation/trial will reach its logical conclusion. This
Court additionally pointed out that apart from possible delays in
investigations, it was also noticed that sanctions for prosecution, under Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 or under Section 197 ,
Criminal Procedure Code, were still pending before the higher authorities in
many cases, without any decision being taken thereto. In view of the above,
the learned Solicitor General submitted that he would file a status report with
respect to the initiation, current stage of investigation pending against
sitting/former legislators (MPs and MLAs) before the CBI, Enforcement
Directorate and other central agencies, pendency/grant of sanctions for
prosecution, the expected time for completion of the investigation and
reasons for delay in the same, if any, before the next date of hearing. He
further submitted that appropriate action would be taken by the nodal

departments against any officer responsible for any unreasonable delay. 12. Mr. Vikas Singh, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Petitioners,
submitted that the number of Courts needed per district ought to be
rationalized and this may be left to the discretion of the respective High

Court. 13. Heard the learned counsel representing the parties. We would, at the
outset, like to appreciate the efforts made by the learned amicus curiae and

acknowledge his able assistance. 14. One of the main objectives behind issuing notice in the present Writ
Petition, and the various orders that have been passed time to time by this
Court, was to ensure that criminal prosecutions against elected
representatives (MPs and MLAs) are concluded expeditiously. The Court was of
the opinion that such special consideration was required not only because of
the rising wave of criminalization that was occurring in the politics in the
country, but also due to the power that elected representatives (sitting or
former) wield, to influence or hamper effective prosecution. Additionally, as

legislators are the repositories of the faith and trust of their electorate, there 36 is a necessity to be aware of the antecedents of the person that is/was
elected. Ensuring the purity of democratically elected institutions is thus the

hallmark of the present proceedings. | 15. | However, despite all the initiatives taken by this Court in the present
petition, there has been no substantial improvement in the situation when it
comes to the disposal of pending criminal cases against sitting/former
legislators (MPs and MLAs). Now, that we are well equipped with the
information and data collected from the various High Courts, and looking at
the suggestions made by the learned amicus, the learned sti General and 1 other learned counsel, we are better placed to assess the existing situation. 16. With respect to increasing the number of Spedial Courts and
rationalizing the pending criminal cases, we deem it appropriate that, before
passing any specific direction in respect thereto, it would be appropriate to
direct the learned Chief Justice of each High Court to formulate and submit an
action plan for rationalization of the number of Special Courts necessary, with

respect to the following aspects: 17. The learned Chief Justices while preparing the action plan should also
consider, in the event the trials are already ongoing in an expeditious manner,
whether transferring the same to a different Court would be necessary and

appropriate. 18. The learned Chief Justices of the High Courts shall also designate a
Special Bench, comprising themselves and their designate, in order to monitor

the progress of these trials. 19. The learned Chief Justices are also requested to give their comments on
the other suggestions of the learned amicus, as extracted by us in our order

dated 10.09.2020 and this order. They are also requested to send us additional 37 suggestions, if any, for the purpose of expedient disposal of pending criminal
cases against legislators. The action plan, with the comments and suggestions
of the learned Chief Justices of the High Courts, are to be sent to the
Secretary General of this Court, preferably within a week. A copy may also be
sent to the learned amicus curiae by way of e- mail. 20. We further request the learned Chief Justices of all the High Courts to
list forthwith all pending criminal cases involving sitting/former legislators
(MPs and MLAs), particularly those wherein a stay has been granted, before an
appropriate bench(es) comprising of the learned Chief Justice and/or their
designates. Upon being listed, the Court must first decide whether the stay
granted, if any, should continue, keeping in view the principles regarding the
grant of stay enshrined in the judgment of this Court in Asian Resurfacing of
Road Agency Private Limited v. CBI , (2018) 16 SCC 299. In the event that a stay
is considered necessary, the Court should hear the matter on a day-to-day
basis and dispose of the same expeditiously, preferably within a period of two
month, without any unnecessary adjournment. It goes without saying that the
Covid-19 condition should not be an impediment to the compliance of this
direction, as these matters could be conveniently heard through video

conferencing. 21. The Registrar Generals of all the High Courts are directed to place a
copy of this order and our earlier order dated 10.09.2020 before the learned
Chief Justices of their respective High Courts forthwith, for necessary

directions. 22. With respect to the other suggestions made by the learned amicus, we

will pass directions at an appropriate stage. List this matter after 2 weeks." 16. Immediately thereafter, A.P Police, on one day, i.e., on
23.09.2020, filed closure report mentioning therein as. 'false' in more
than 7 or 8 criminal cases in which Sri Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy, who is
presently Hon'ble Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh State, was accused
and investigation in those cases was pending since several years. It is on
record that the present Chief Minister of A.P till the month of

September, 2020 was accused in more than thirty (30) cases. The 38 present Hon'ble Chief Minister is accused in about ten (10) cases
registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation. In thoge cases, where
charge sheets have been filed long back, there is an allegation that he
took several Crores of rupees as bribe and committed serious offences
under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and other offences. Till

the submission of charge sheets in those cases, he was not even Chief

Minister. The present Hon'ble Chief Minister of State of AP is also
accused in several cases lodged by the Enforcement Directorate. Besides
those cases, he is accused in number of cases on an allegation of
committing offences under the provisions of Indian Penal Code , 1860.
Surprisingly, though cases are pending since 2011 and onwards, till date,
in none of the cases, charges have been framed. Is it nota mockery with

the system. 17. The Hon'ble Supreme Court long back in Ganesh Narayan Hegde v. S.Bangarappa & Others" has observed in paragraph (17) as follows: 18. It is pertinent to record that in W.P.No.9166 of 2020, on
08.10.2020, learned Advocate General consented for investigation as
directed by this Court and order was reserved on 08.10.2020. On
10.10.2020, at about 3 PM, supplementary cause list was published by
the AP High Court showing that the case was directed to be listed on
12.10.2020 under the caption 'For pronouncement of orders'. In the
same evening, i.e., on 10.10.2020, about 8 or 8.30 PM, news like 'Wild
Fire' was published in which one Sri Ajeya Kallam, Principal Advisor to
Hon'ble Chief Minister, in an interview with the press made a letter
written by Sri Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy, Hon'ble Chief Minister of Andhra
Pradesh, to the Hon'ble Chief Justice of India shown to be sent on
06.10.2020 as public. In the said letter, allegations were made against
Hon'ble Sri Justice N.V.Ramana, Sri Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari, the

Hon'ble Chief Justice of AP High Court and about half a dozen Hon'ble

Judges of A.P High Court. _19. We are not aware as to whether any contempt proceeding for such

an action has been taken or not by the Hon'ble Chief Justice of India. But, it is a fact that recommendation has been made on 14.12.2020 by
the Collegium of Hon'ble Supreme Court for transfer/appointment of
Chief Justices, which includes transfer of Chief Justice of AP High Court
to Sikkim High Court and transfer of Chief Justice of Telangana High

Court to Uttarakhand High Court. 20. Whether by this act of sending unceremonious, letter to the
Hon'ble Chief Justice of India, the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Andhra
Pradesh will get final relief or not but fact remains that he succeeded in
getting undue advantage at the present moment. People may draw an
inference as if after the so called letter of Hon'ble Chief Minister, the
two Chief Justices, i.e., Chief Justice of High Court for the State of
Telangana and Chief Justice of High Court of AP have been transferred.
By the said transfer, naturally, the cases pending in the Court of Special
Judge for CBI cases in Hyderabad against Sri Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy,
present Chief Minister and others may be delayed and monitoring by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in W.P (Civil) No.699 of 2016 may hamper for the
time being. Similarly, by the transfer of Chief Justice of AP High Court,
the Government of Andhra Pradesh is bound to get undue benefit. It is
an open fact that issue of three capitals in the State of Andhra Pradesh is
the brain child of the present Chief Minister. The poor farmers whose
land was taken under the scheme of land pooling Act for establishment
and development of Amaravati as capital of this State, where several
developmental work had started from the year 2015 and unceremoniously
stopped after new Government under the leadership of Sri Y.S Jagan
Mohan Reddy, the present Hon'ble Chief Minister, was formed in the year

2019. Number of writ petitions were filed against the "Decentralised 44 Governance and Inclusive Development Bill", and subsequent enactment
to formulate three capitals. In that batch of cases, final hearing since
one month was continuing by a Full Bench of this Court presided over by
Hon'ble Sri Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari, the Chief Justice of AP High
Court. Immediately after the recommendation for his transfer by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, that too, after publicizing of contemptuous
letter of accused/Hon'ble Chief Minister to the Hon'ble Chief Justice of
India, hearing in the batch cases has been stopped. After his transfer,
there is every likelihood that some time may be consumed in
reconstitution of the Bench and thereafter from zero hearing in those
cases may commence. | am not raising any question on the transfer of
Hon'ble Chief Justices, either of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh or of
the High Court for the State of Telangana, but, at the same time, | am
constrained to observe that transfer of High Court Judges or its Chief
Justices may reflect some transparency and for betterment or upliftment
of the administration of justice. After all, they are also holding

Constitutional post like member of Hon'ble Supreme Court Collegium. 21. Till the publication of letter, dated 06.10.2020, of the Hon'ble
Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, | was not having much information
about him. But, immediately thereafter, | became curious to know about
him. Subsequently, | was told that if | go on site 'Google' and type only
"Khaidi No.6093", | can get many information. Accordingly, | did the
same thing and thereafter | got very disturbing information. Some of

such extracts | got downloaded are quoted herein below: Advertisement

Jagan, is the 10th VIP in the jail, which til recently housed disgraced IT czar
Ramalinga Raju and mining baron and former Karnataka minister Gali Janardhana
Reddy. ALSO READ
All-Women Petrol ISIS Suspects Sent To me Prisoner Escapes with
Station Opened in Two Weeks Judicial % 65,000 Cash in
Chanchalguda Jail Custody Hyderabad

Premises

Raju was released on bail in November last year after spending three years in the jail
in the multi-crore accounting fraud in Satyam Computers while Janardhana Reddy,
key accused in illegal mining case, was shifted to Bangalore jail in another case in
March. Janardhana Reddy, also one of the richest politicians in the country, was in
Chanchalguda since September last year. Jagan joins senior indian Administrative Service (IAS) officials BP Acharya, Y
Srilakshmi, leading industrialists Nimmagadda Prasad, Keneru Prasad,
businessman Srinivas Reddy, bureaucrats VD Rajagopal, and KV Brahmananda

Reddy in jail. Prunoted

poms Altergioes Lu ite ont a

Nimmagadda and Brahmananda Reddy are accused in the Jagan case while others
are accused in illegal mining and Emaar-APIIC township cases. They are among 700 prisoners in the jail located in the old city and built in 1876

Comments

https:/www.ndtv.com/souttvrichest-mp jagan-is-now-prisoner-6093-485359 3 44 422812020 , dagas sent taf specal pAsoner - Times of india
w

 

Printed from

THE TIMES OF INDIA

Jagan sent to jail as special prisoner

 

HYDERABAD: Jaganmohan Reddy took bribes totalling Rs 1472 crore from various investors and influenced his father and chief
minister Y S Rajasekhara Reddy to dale out favours to them in the farm of land allotments and leases, the CGI charged while
seeking his custody in the trial court on Monday. CBIs counsel also arqued that Jagan had taken recourse to huge hawala
transactions. However, principal special judge A Pullaiah dismissed the CBl's custody petition and refused to recognize the arrest of Jagan

 

mare by the investigatiang agency on Sunday. The judge then remanded Jagan to 14-days Judicial custody till June Tt as the
consequence of the summons served by the court on the accused. He was sent to Chanchalguda Jai efter beng accorded
special prisoner status

against ine denial of his custady,

Jagan is slated ta challenge his remand in the AP high court on Tuesday even as the CBI loo will appeal

 

Me
Nirenagadda Prasad were named a3 some of the companies who dealt with Jagan, the CBI s: Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy

There are nine ministers with serious criminal cases pending against them. The average assets of the ministers is Rs 35.25 crore. YS Jaganmohan Reddy is the richest with assets worth Rs 510.38 crore,
Second on this list is Peddi Reddy Ramachandra Reddy, with assets worth
Rs 130 crore. Mekapati Goutham Reddy fs third with Rs 61 crore worth of
assets. Jagan has declared moveable assets worth Rs 4,43,48,37,267 and
immoveable assets to the tune of Rs 66,89,79,299, His total assets stand at
Rs 5,10,38,16,566. : 22. Thereafter, | got some authenticated information; and came to

know that Sri Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy, the present Hon'ble Chief Minister

is one of the accused in the following CBI cases: 23.

Sri Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy, present

Hon'ble Chief Minister is

accused in the following six (6) cases registered by the Enforcement

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Directorate: The incumbent
Chief Minister is
A3. Ai is M/s
C.C.No. | Sections 499, 500, | Jagathi
(10) Private complaint 33/2018 | 501, 502 r/w 34 IPC Publications Ltd.,
, which is the media
house promoted by
A3. Since March,
2018, summons are
not being served
on Ai and A3
Sections 147, 148,
114, 186, 188, 440,
286, 283, 353, 341,
290, 342, 427, 506
FIR No.137/2011, IPC , Section 7(1) of
Pulivendula Police Station, Criminal Law
(11) | YSR Kadapa District Amendment Act,
1932, Section 3 of
Prevention of
Damage to Public
Property Act, 1984 (12) | FIR No.189/2016 Ananthapuram Il Town Police Sections 166, 153 A, | ,
Station, YSR Kadapa District 166A, 504 IPC (13) | FIR No.91/2016 |
Peddavadugur Sections 153A, 117, |-- Police Station, 166, 504 IPC Ananthapuramu District
(14) | FIR No.91/2016 Sections 153A, 117, |. Yadiki Police Station, 166, 504, 506 IPC Ananthapuramu District
(15) | FIR No.52/2016 Sections 153A, 116,
Nallacheruvu 506 IPC Police Station,
Ananthapuramu District
(16) | FIR No.43/2016, Puttaparthy Sections 153A, 116,
Urban Police Station, 500, 506 IPC Ananthapuram District
(17) | FIR No.142/2015, Sections 120-B, 469,

 

Chilakaluripet Town Police

Station, Guntur District

 

 

471 IPC , Sections 23 & 24 of Indian
Telegraph Act, 1885 49 (18) | FIR No.74/2015, Narasaraopet Sections 120-B, 1 Town Police Station, Guntur dese 153A, 469, 471 IPC ,
District Sections 23 & 24 of

Indian Telegraph Act,

1885, Sections 65 & 66 of Information
Technology Act, 2000 24. Out of all the aforesaid cases, which were pending since long,
surprisingly, in 6/7 cases, only after, order, dated 16.09.2020, passed in
Writ Petition (Civil) 699 of 2016, by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, on one
day, i.e., on 23.09.2020, the Police of Andhra Pradesh submitted closure
report, showing most of the cases as 'false'. In one of the case, i.e., FIR
No.137 of 2011 of Pulivendula Police Station, YSR Kadapa District, on
05.11.2020, after the order, dated 16.09.2020, of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court, report was submitted by the police as "False". In three cases,
police submitted final report showing as "Mistake of Fact". In those
cases, such report was submitted after the order, dated 16.09.2020, of
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in W.P (C) 699 of 2016. In other three cases,

report was submitted as "Action Drop". 25. The aforesaid act of Andhra Pradesh police reflects as to how head
of the Police, i.e., the Director General of Police, Government of Andhra
Pradesh, is functioning as per the dictate of the Government, not in
upholding rule of law in the State. | am well aware that many of my
observations made herein above may not be in consonance with the
technicality, but since on the verge of my retirement, my impartiality
has been questioned by the Government of Andhra Pradesh on my face in
the present proceeding, in my defence, | was constrained to record
above facts, which are based on record and may not be disputed. My

only endeavour is to uphold the majesty of law. 26. |am of the opinion that for a situation, which is prevailing, today
in which impartiality, integrity, honesty, unbiased et¢., in judicial
system is being raised, to some extent we are also responsible. Several
instances we have noticed that immediately after demitting the office of
Judge, the Judges are provided with new assignment. If we start to
restrict our expectation of reassignment/re-employment at least for a
period of one year after retirement, | don't think that any|political party,
even party in power can undermine the independence of judiciary and
we may be in a position to uphold the majesty of law without being

influenced by any one. 27. As discussed herein above, one can infer how the Government in
the State of Andhra Pradesh is proceeding. Firstly, attack was made on
Legislative Council, thereafter another Constitutional body, i.e., State
Election Commission; and, now the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and

even the Supreme Court is under attack by persons, who are in power. 28. It is relevant to mention here that during initial period, while | was
coming to Court from my residential bungalow, for some time, | had
noticed that people were standing by the side of the road with folded
hands with some placard. On enquiry, | was told hat they were
supporters of one Capital, i.e., Amaravati as capital. |However, after
some time, all such activities were not noticed by me. But, just before
the start of hearing by a Full Bench of this Court in the matter relating to
three capitals, | (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar) had noticed that few
kilometers before the High Court, that is, the way of the Hon'ble Judges
leading to High Court, near a place called "Mandadam", a tent was

erected and number of persons were sitting there. On the road side near 51 the tent, they posted black flags as if they were showing black flags to
the Hon'ble Judges. Enquiry revealed that such persons are assembling
to show support in creation of three capitals. Posters and banners of
political leaders of party in power were available on the site and it is
continuing since more than one month. It is a fact that on one occasion,
such act was accelerated to the displeasure and to show disrespect to
the Hon'ble Judges, particularly, the Hon'ble The Chief Justice. After
noticing such an unpleasant and disturbing event, a communication,
dated 19.12.2020, was made on administrative side by the Registrar
General, High Court of Andhra Pradesh, to the Superintendent of Police,
Guntur. A copy of the said communication, which is reproduced herein
below, is self explanatory: 29. It appears that in the aforesaid background, now in the present
proceeding, the State by way of filing the aforesai¢ interlocutory
application, has ventured to malign the image of one of the Members of
this Bench (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar). It is very difficult for me
to swallow the allegation of deviating from the principle of impartiality. The said allegation made on oath by the petitioner/respondent No.5 to

some extent, can be termed as 'untrue' and 'false'. 30. After hearing the learned Additional Advocate General on IASR
No.37122 of 2020, filed by petitioner/respondent no.5, namely,
Mr. Pravin Kumar, Special Officer, Mission of A.P, I.T Towers,
Mangalagiri, Guntur District/Mission Director, Mission Build Andhra
Pradesh, Government of Andhra Pradesh, and examining the prayer made
in the petition, | am of the opinion that such prayer is totally untenable
and malicious too. If Court starts entertaining such petitions; in no case,
the Court can be allowed to dispense justice. With a view to uphold the
majesty of law and repose the confidence of citizen in the judicial
system, such endeavour made by the State is considered as malicious and
cannot be approved. If such petitions are entertained, it will amount to
allowing the party for hunting the Bench. Such an action by the State
was not expected, but in this State, as | have observed the circumstances
herein above, everything can be possible. However, at] the same time,

the Court cannot be frightened by any such action of the/State. 31. Accordingly, the prayer for recusal of one of the Members of the
Division Bench (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar) from the present case

stands rejected. 32. | (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar) may make it clear that all the
aforesaid observation has been made by me (Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh
Kumar) since prayer for my recusal was made. Such prayer made by
respondent No.5 holding the post in the Andhra Pradesh Government is

simply a contemptuous act and it is highly deprecated.
RAKESH KUMAR, J 33. It is a case that on oath, the petitioner/respondent No.5, on behalf
of the State of Andhra Pradesh, has made a false statement, which is not
supported by either on the record of the docket or any documents, which
have been brought on record in the present interlocutory application,
and as such, it amounts to commission of offence of perjury and such act
is liable to be proceeded with in accordance with law. Moreover, the
action of the State, by way of filing the aforesaid petition, with untrue
and false allegations amounts to interference in the discharge of judicial
functions and as such the same is contemptuous. Accordingly, we
propose to call for an explanation from the petitioner/respondent No.5
as to why he may not be proceeded with for his contemptuous act and
contempt proceedings be not initiated against him. The petitioner/
respondent No.5 is directed to file his show-cause within a period of six
(6) weeks from today and the Registry is directed to list this matter in

the second week of February, 2021. 34. Since on oath, in a Court proceeding, the netitioher/respondent
No.5 has made false statement in paragraph No.4 of the affidavit filed in
support of the petition, as mentioned herein above in this order, the
Registrar General is directed to file a complaint for initiation of criminal
prosecution against the petitioner/respondent No.5 in; the Court of

concerned judicial Magistrate/Chief Judicial Magistrate. 35. Put up the aforesaid batch of writ petitions in the $econd week of

February, 2021. 36. Before parting, we may observe that since Advocates are treated
as Officers of the Court, it is expected that they may endeavour to assist
the Court for coming to correct decision in a dispute. |In general, the
Court has noticed that the members of the Bar of Andhra Pradesh are
very sincere, disciplined and their acts reflect as if they are really
officers of the Court. However, some of the senior Law Officers of the
State of Andhra' Pradesh may not be treated at par with such learned
counsel. In the present case, had the senior Law Officer rendered
correct advice to the Government, there was no reason for the present
unwarranted and unpleasant situation. It is the duty of the Law Officers
of the Government to render appropriate opinion to the | overnment not
to act as per the dictates of the Government. At the same time, we
have noticed that number of Government Advocates are ischarging their
duties with excellent behavior and correct approach. Hi wever, we are
refraining to record any specific observation against either of the State
Counsels. But, in any event the present situation has created a piquant

situation, which would have been avoided had the State was given proper

|

legal advice. 37. It is clarified that this Court has not made any observations on the
merits of the case and all the observations made herein above are only

for considering the prayer for recusal made in this interlocutory

application. Per Hon'ble Sri Justice D.Ramesh: OONDOUIARW
 

DRAFTED: TVR
DATED 30.12.2020

HIGH COURT ~

RKJ & DRJ

DATED: 30.12.2020

ORDER

I.A. SR No.37122 OF 2020
IN
W.P.(PIL) NO: 127 OF 2020, WP Nos. 8966, 9135, 18794 of 2020

WP (PIL) Nos.132, 135, 136, 137, 145 & 192 of 2020

DIRECTION