I had trusted MagicBricks website for renting out my flat. The BIGGEST mistake of my life. I paid around ₹3000 bucks and activated some plan. Post that, I received a call from Sanjay Singh and he mentioned that he is working for the Indian army and that he will be moving to Pune and needs a flat urgently. He then said he would discuss things with his wife and finalise it. With just a couple of photos I sent on WhatsApp of the flat, he said he’s in and didn’t have any questions regarding the flat or the society or rent. That raised some eyebrows but I still played along. He sent me some of his (FAKE!!) Aadhar card, PAN Card and Army canteen card WITHOUT ME ASKING FOR IT. He asked me to send my Aadhaar card because apparently he gets some discount from the army or something along those lines and that’s when I stopped. I told him to send me the token amount before I reveal any of my details, to which he sent a QR code and asked me to click on the “Pay” button. Red alerts everywhere and I cut the call. It’s been 2 months since I opened the MagicBricks account and I have received about a million calls from these people, sometimes Sanjay Singh, sometimes Randip Singh god knows how many names, and they call from a different number EVERY SINGLE TIME so even blocking a number isn’t helpful. They have annoyed me to an extent that I deactivated my MagicBricks account and thinking to even change my number at this point. I got a call yet again, a hundred times, yesterday, from one of these scammers and repeating the same story. “Hi sister. I’m Amit Singh I work for Indian army blah blah”. And I told them to stop calling me and he immediately abused me. Real bad. Tired and helpless, I called up MagicBricks to help me here, but they outright denied to refund my money, and told me they take care of these scammers. They asked me for a number and I told them they’ve 100s of it and that I’ve a list, to which they said okay send us the list we will block them… i mean!!! THATS NOT HOW THIS WORKS! I can block these numbers from my end too but their root number should be blocked! Either ways, expected but disappointing, I didn’t get any help from MagicBricks. PLEASE DO NOT POST ANY AD IN MAGICBRICKS or any other online forum. I’d recommend to rather go the local broker way than any online way to find a tenant. It might be costlier but at least your life will be at peace. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (15)