MANMOHAN, J: Tim Berners-Lee, Inventor of Web. 1. It is rare that in an ex-parte matter questions of law of general public
importance arise for consideration. However, in the present batch of
ex-parte matters the following seminal issues arise for consideration:- BRIEF FACTS 2. The present eight suits have been filed by the plaintiffs primarily
seeking injunction restraining infringement of copyright on account of
defendants communicating to the public the plaintiffs' original
content/cinematographic works without authorization. The reliefs sought by
the plaintiffs can broadly be classified as under:- 3. The plaintiffs are companies, who are engaged in the business of
creating content, producing and distributing cinematographic films around
the world including in India. 4. Four classes of defendants have been impleaded in the present
matters, namely:- CS(COMM) 770/2018

 Domain URL IP Address
 fmovies.pe https://fmovies.pe 104.24.18.88
 104.24.19.88
 fmovies.io http://fmovies.io 192.162.138.17 CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 11 of 99 fmovies.taxi http://fmovies.taxi 104.27.143.24
 104.27.142.24
 bmovies.pro https://bmovies.pro 104.31.71.201
 104.31.70.201

 bmovies.ru http://bmovies.ru 104.24.108.89
 104.24.109.89
 fmovies.world http://fmovies.world 104.27.131.168

UTV Software Communications Ltd. & Ors. v. Rarbg.is CS(COMM)
776/2018

 Domain URL IP Address
 rarbg.is https://rarbg.is 185.37.100.123
 rarbg.com http://rarbg.com 185.37.100.121
 rarbg.to https://rarbg.to 185.37.100.122
 rarbgproxy.org http://rarbgproxy.org 104.31.78.172

UTV Software Communications Ltd. & Ors. v. thepiratebay.org and
Ors. CS(COMM) 777/2018'

 Domain URL IP Address
 thepiratebay.org https://thepiratebay.org 104.27.216.28
 104.27.217.28
 thepiratebay.se http://thepiratebay.se 2002:6709:4c08::1 CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 12 of 99 UTV Software Communications Ltd. & Ors. v. Yts.am & Ors . UTV Software Communications Ltd. & Ors. V. Extratorrent.ag & Ors. the unauthorized communication of the plaintiffs' copyrighted works
 and include the registrants of the defendant-websites, uploaders,
 creators of the redirect / mirror / alphanumeric websites etc.

iii. ISPs that provide internet access, enabling users to visit any website
 online, including the defendant-websites. iv. Government Department/Agency, namely Department of
 Telecommunication (hereinafter referred to as "DoT") and Ministry
 of Electronics & Information Technology (hereinafter referred to as
 "MEITY‖) who have been impleaded to assist in notifying ISPs to
 disable access to defendant-websites within India and implementing
 the orders passed by this Court. 5. Even according to the plaintiffs, the ISPs and the Government
Agencies are not involved in committing any infringement but have been
impleaded for the purpose of evolving an effective and balanced relief that
adequately redresses the plaintiffs' concerns and also protects the public
interest, if any. 6. Keeping in view the fact that the contesting defendants had been
proceeded ex-parte and substantial question of law of general public CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 14 of 99 importance arose for consideration, this Court deemed it appropriate to
appoint Mr.Hemant Singh, who is a regular practitioner in IPRs cases, as the
learned Amicus Curiae to assist the Court. ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF LEARNED COUNSEL FOR PLAINTIFFS 7. Mr. Saikrishna Rajgopal, learned counsel for the plaintiffs stated that
the infringing websites named in the present batch of matters allow
‗streaming' and ‗downloading' of copyrighted content of the plaintiffs,
enabling the users to watch, download as well as share copies of such works.
According to him, the defendants' business model is supported by revenue
generated through advertisements, which are displayed on their websites. 8. Learned counsel for the plaintiffs pointed out that the plaintiffs had
engaged the services of an investigator Mr. Manish Vaishampayan, who
works as Manager of Content Protection at Motion Picture Distributors
Association, Mumbai. The said investigator had filed affidavits in all the
suits in which he stated that he had monitored the defendant-websites in
respect of some of the copyrighted movies of the plaintiffs. The evidence
that had been collated in the form of screenshots and printouts from the
infringing websites had been provided to the plaintiffs via a cloud link in
conformity with Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. The
investigator in his affidavit had further stated that the defendant-websites act
in the following manner:- 9. Mr. Saikrishna Rajagopal, learned counsel for plaintiffs contended
that the substantial purpose of the defendant-websites is to infringe or
facilitate the infringement of copyright of the plaintiffs. 10. It is also the case of the plaintiffs that if one impugned websites is
blocked, several other mirror websites are created which contain the
infringing content. In some cases, the names of these websites are very
similar to the blocked websites, enabling and encouraging easy
identification and access. The details of registrants/ operators of these
websites are unknown and therefore the plaintiffs have arrayed them as
‗John Doe' defendants. 11. He stated that in such circumstances courts in different jurisdictions
have passed injunction orders blocking the primary website. Mr.Saikrishna
handed over a Note on law prevalent in foreign jurisdictions in relation to
website blocking. The Note handed over by him is reproduced
hereinbelow:- 610/15), it was held that the well known user submitted link/torrent
 Piratebay website directly infringes copyright in the EU. The Court
 found that Piratebay does communicate, goes beyond the mere
 provision of physical facilities, and plays an essential role in
 making the works available as, without the website, the sharing of
 works would be more complex. This was a key decision reiterating
 the validity of blocking of pirate websites throughout the EU. power to a regional first instance criminal Court, to order any measure
 to prevent an infringement of copyright or related rights against any
 person that can contribute to remedying the situation, on receiving an
 application for such order by the holders of the rights in the
 copyrighted works and subject-matters.  This provision has been used by rightsholders to obtain
 blocking orders against illegal streaming websites in France. The CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 18 of 99 Tribunal de Grandes Instances de Paris (TGI) issued a judgment
 requiring ISPs to block access to 16 unlicensed streaming sites. [28
 November 2013, No.11/60013]. The Court held that the injunction was
 compatible with fundamental freedom of expression. The Court of
 Appeal confirmed the findings and reiterated that the measures to
 block websites by ISPs do not violate rights of freedom of expression
 and are compliant with the principle of proportionality. [Paris Court of
 Appeal judgment of 15 March 2016 [No 040/2016].  This decision by the Paris Court of Appeal was upheld by the
 French Supreme Court [15 March 2016 (RG No. 040/2016)] wherein it
 held that only in the instance where the blocking measure would
 compromise the viability of the business model of intermediaries, that
 the cost of such measure would be borne by the rightsholders.  In Société Francaise du Radiotéléphone et al. V Orange et al.,
 Case No.14/03236, France, Paris Court of First Instance (04
 December, 2014) it was held that "while it is correct that any blocking
 measures can be circumvented by some internet users, on the one
 hand it has not been established that the large majority of internet
 users, who are attached to the free-of-charge nature of
 communications and numerous services on the internet, have the firm
 intention to participate in globalised and large-scale piracy and, on the
 other hand, the measures sought are aimed at the majority of users
 who do not necessarily have the time and skills to research means of
 circumventing the law, which specialists find and store in their
 memory."  In SFR and Others v Association of Cinema Producers and
 Others , Cour Cass, Civ 1, 6 July 2017, No 16-17.217, 16-18.298, 16-
 18.348, 16-18.595, ECLI:FR:CCASS: 2017:C100909 (Allostreaming)
 decided on July 6, 2017, by the French Supreme Court (Cour de CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 19 of 99 cassation), established two very important precedents. The French
 Supreme Court) confirmed the decision of the Paris Court of Appeal in
 March 2016 (RG No.040/2016) which held that Internet intermediaries
 must bear the costs for implementing blocking measures against
 illegal streaming websites of copyright content; and confirmed that
 search engines qualify as intermediaries under Article 8.3 of the EU
 InfoSoc Directive, meaning they can be subject to orders to delist
 websites ordered for site blocking under Article 8.3.  In Federation Nationale Des Distributeurs De Films and Others
 v S.A. Orange and Others, 25 May 2018: On 25 May 2018, the Paris
 District Court ordered 6 new infringing streaming sites to be blocked
 and deindexed in France (including their future alternative domains).
 The case was filed by French right holders FNDF, SEVN, API and
 UPC - with the intervention of SPI and government body CNC -
 against search engine Google LLC and ISPs Bouygues Telecom,
 Free, Orange Numericable and SFR. The Court confirmed that costs
 have to be borne by the intermediaries provided that such imputation
 participates to the material and financial contribution to be made by
 the intermediaries whose services are used by a third party to infringe
 IP rights in order to remedy this infringement, and respects a fair
 balance between the copyright protection and the freedom of
 enterprise of the intermediaries. With regard to search engines, a de-
 indexing order is imposed for any result leading to the targeted sites,
 so not limited to currently known domains. Keys in the December 2017
 judgment were:- Abuse of Rights
 doctrine. Commission (MCMC) may order its "licensee" to "prevent the network
 facilities that he owns or provides or the network service, applications
 service or content applications service that he provides from being
 used in, or in relation to, the commission of any offence" including
 copyright infringement.  In Indonesia, the Minister Directorate General of Intellectual
 Property Rights (DGIPR) may, "[i]n case there is sufficient evidence to
 be found" of "copyright and/ or related rights infringement through
 electronic systems for Commercial use"... "recommend to the Minister
 of Telecommunications and Informatics to block some or all of the
 content infringing the Copyright in the electronic system or make the
 electronic system service inaccessible."  In Thailand, the Minister of Digital Economy "may submit a
 motion together with evidence to the competent Court to order
 discontinuation of dissemination or deletion of [computer data which is
 a criminal offense under the intellectual property laws] from the
 computer system."  In Korea, the Korea Copyright Protection Agency (KCOPA), in
 consultation with the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism (MCST)
 oversees the blocking of sites which infringe copyright, based on
 organizing statutes including the Act on Promotion of Information and
 Communications Network Utilization and Information Protection, Etc." 12. During the course of the arguments, Mr. Saikrishna extensively
referred to an Article written ―How Website Blocking Is Curbing Digital
Piracy Without ―Breaking the Internet‖ published in Information CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 32 of 99 Technology & Innovation Foundation (ITIF) in August, 2016 by Mr. Nigel
Cory, Associate Director, Trade Policy, ITIF. The relevant portion of the
said Article is reproduced hereinbelow:- Internet Protocol (IP) Address Blocking
 Every computer has an IP address, similar to a street address or
 telephone number. When a user connects to the Internet, every packet of
 data sent or received over the Internet (e.g., for emails or to view websites)
 carries this IP address as does every destination on the Internet. Since
 ISPs act as central clearing houses for users‟ access to the Internet, they
 can modify their network settings equipment to discard user requests to
 access IP addresses for blocked sites. The costs of this process are low as
 the list of IP address is maintained centrally by the ISP.(Lukas Feiler, "Website
 Blocking Injunctions under EU and US Copyright Law: Slow Death of the Global Internet or Emergence of
 the Rule of National Copyright Law" (working paper no. 13, Transatlantic Technology Law Forum (TTLF),
 Stanford University Law School and University of Vienna School of Law,
 2012), http://law.stanford.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/default/files/publication/203758/doc/
 slspublic/feiler_wp13.pdf.). Many ISPs and Internet backbone operators already
 use this process for security reasons (to fight malware) and to fight spam.
 (Lukas Feiler, "Website Blocking Injunctions under EU and US Copyright Law: Slow Death of the Global
 Internet or Emergence of the Rule of National Copyright Law" (working paper no. 13, Transatlantic
 Technology Law Forum (TTLF), Stanford University Law School and University of Vienna School of Law, CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 33 of 99 2012), http://law.stanford.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/default/files/publication/203758/doc/
 slspublic/ feiler_wp13.pdf.). There are a few ways that IP blocking can be circumvented, but
 these are cumbersome, and most Internet users do not have the
 sophisticated technical skills (and motivation) to sidestep blocking.
 Website operators can circumvent IP blocking by obtaining new IP
 addresses and reconfiguring their domain names so that users go to these
 new IP addresses, but this is also cumbersome, especially if it has to be
 done repeatedly.(Ofcom, "„Site Blocking‟ to Reduce Online Copyright Infringement: A Review
 of Sections 17 and 18 of the Digital Economy Act" (London: Ofcom, May 27, 2010),
 http://stakeholders.ofcom.org.uk/binaries/internet/site-blocking.pdf.). Users can
 circumvent IP address blocks by using software (such as an encrypted
 virtual private network) to relay their Internet connection via a server that
 is with a different ISP or via a different Internet backbone operator that is
 not affected by the block, but most users are not this sophisticated. A disadvantage of IP blocking is that IP addresses can be quickly
 changed. IP blocking can also impact non-infringing websites, as a single
 IP address can host multiple websites.(Benjamin Edelman, "Web Sites Sharing IP
 Addresses: Prevalence and Significance," Berkman Center for Internet and Society, Harvard Law
 School, last modified September 12, 2003). However, the focus of copyright
 enforcement and website blocking is on sites that facilitate large-scale
 copyright infringement--such as those that have many full-length movies,
 TV shows, and songs--so even if the IP address used by a piracy site hosts
 non-infringing pages or files, the legitimate content that is blocked is
 small, and not reason enough to avoid shutting down the website. If The
 Pirate Bay or KickAssTorrents facilitated access to a small amount of
 content that had a creative commons license, and was therefore able to
 be shared, this would not change the fact that it is a piracy site worth
 shutting down. Domain Name System (DNS) Blocking
 DNS blocking targets the process that converts website domain names
 into a corresponding IP address, which is then used to communicate with
 other servers. The DNS system effectively serves as the phone book of the
 Internet and is used by virtually every piece of software or hardware on the
 Internet, from web browsers and email applications to game consoles and
 streaming video devices. An ISP can block an entire domain by making configuration changes at its
 DNS server. When a user asks to access a particular website, such as
 www.maindomain.com, the DNS server of the customer‟s ISP recognizes
 the domain as a blocked site, does not allow it to be translated into an IP
 address, and responds to the user that the domain does not exist or
 redirects to an informational webpage. DNS blocking is quick to
 implement, as existing systems can be easily adapted, and would only CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 34 of 99 require a modest incremental investment for ISPs. (Ofcom, "Site Blocking.).
 Critics claim that DNS blocking, like IP blocking, will cause "collateral
 damage" due to the risk of over-blocking, as a single domain can host
 many websites through website extensions. (Internet Society, "Internet Society
 Perspectives on Domain Name System (DNS) Filtering" (Internet Society, May 30, 2012), 202,
 http://www.internetsociety.org/internet-society-perspectives-domain-namesystem-dns-filtering-0;
 Steve Crocker et al., "Security and Other Technical Concerns Raised by the DNS Filtering
 Requirements in the PROTECT IP Bill" (technical white paper, May 2011),
 https://stupid.domain.name/files/2011/05/PROTECT-IP-Technical-Whitepaper-Final.pdf.)

 However, this risk can be addressed by implementing DNS blocking at the
 subdomain level (e.g. www.piracysite.maindomain.com instead of
 www.maindomain.com). Furthermore, like IP blocking, if the main domain
 hosts a site that has the primary purpose of facilitating illegal access to
 copyrighted material, then it is a legitimate target for online enforcement.
 A website operator that hosts copyright infringing material would only be
 able to circumvent the DNS block by using another domain name, but like
 IP blocking, this becomes cumbersome. Users are able to circumvent this
 process by using another domain name server (e.g., users could use a
 virtual private network to connect to an alternative DNS server not subject
 to the blocking orders). However, like IP blocking, it would be a mistake to
 assume that the average Internet user has the above-average technical
 skills necessary to do this. Many, if not most, consumers have low levels of
 computer literacy and certainly are not sophisticated enough to
 understand how to manipulate the DNS settings in the network
 configuration of their computers, mobile phones, and other Internet-
 connected devices. Furthermore, users who switch DNS servers can
 expose themselves to many security risks if they cannot trust the
 responses from these servers. For example, while the alternate servers
 may reliably return the correct IP address for a Russian file-sharing site,
 they might not return the correct address for Bank of America. (Paul Vixie,
 "DNS Changer," Circle ID, March 27, 2012,
 http://www.circleid.com/posts/20120327_dns_changer/; U.S.Attorney‟s Office, Federal Bureau of
 Investigations, "Manhattan U.S. Attorney Charges Seven Individuals for Engineering Sophisticated
 Internet Fraud Scheme That Infected Millions of Computers Worldwide and Manipulated Internet
 Advertising Business," new release, November 9, 2011,
 https://archives.fbi.gov/archives/newyork/press-releases/2011/manhattan-u.s.-attorney-charges-
 seven-individuals-for-engineering-sophisticated-inernet -fraud-scheme-that-infected-millions-of-
 computers-worldwide-and-manipulated-internet-advertising-business). How many users are
 willing to risk their identity and financial information just to download a
 few songs? Finally, circumvention software (such as encrypted virtual private
 networks) probably will not be adopted by many, as studies show that few
 users use these types of tools in countries where the government restricts
 access to certain websites. For example, a study by the Berkman Center
 for Internet and Society at Harvard University found that "no more than 3
 percent of Internet users in countries that in engage in substantial filtering CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 35 of 99 use circumvention tools. The actual number is likely considerably less."(Hal
 Roberts et al., "2010 Circumvention Tool Usage Report" (report, The Berkman Center for Internet &
 Society, Harvard Law School, Cambridge, MA, October 2011),
 https://cyber.law.harvard.edu/sites/cyber.law.harvard.edu/files/2010_Circumvention_Tool_Usage
 _Report.pdf. ). Uniform Resource Locator (URL) Blocking
 URL blocking requires the ISP to examine both the headers of IP packets
 (which contain the source and destination IP addresses) and the contents
 of the IP packet. This is done through "shallow" or "deep" packet
 inspection (DPI) that examines the contents of the packet in transit, rather
 than simply the IP address of the source and destination devices. Shallow
 packet inspection is focused on IP addresses and technical specifications,
 such as port and protocol combinations. Deep packet inspection examines
 the packet for specific characteristics or values. When a packet matching
 the blocked site IP address, destination host, or even a particular keyword
 passes through a DPI device, the network connection can be terminated.
 These inspections can be performed by the ISP‟s router or a proxy that all
 traffic is forced through in order to access the Internet (such proxy servers
 are common in schools and businesses, as they cache content, block
 inappropriate sites, and provide some security). This process can block specific websites (e.g., www.itif.org) or website
 addresses (e.g., www.itif.org/events/upcoming). Given this capability, URL
 blocking is the most precise method, thereby avoiding over-blocking.(Ofcom,
 "Site Blocking".). URL blocking combines the advantages of both DNS and IP
 blocking. (Feiler, "Website Blocking Injunctions Copyright Law."). To be effective, URL
 blocking needs to be designed so that it only targets specific types of
 network traffic, whether this is related to sites that actively facilitate
 terrorism, child pornography, or copyright infringement.
 Network Functions Virtualization and Software-Defined Networks Can
 Make Blocking Cheaper, Easier, and More Effective
 Software-Defined Networks (SDN) and Network Functions Virtualization
 (NFV) will fundamentally change how telecommunications carriers
 manage network operations and enable flexible new tools to block
 websites.( Fujitsu, "Technical Report: Carrier Software Defined Networking" (technical report for
 Ofcom, Fujitsu, Tokyo, March 2014), http://stakeholders.ofcom.org.uk/
 binaries/research/telecoms-research/SDN_Report.pdf.). These technologies, already
 used in many data centers, will eventually become key components of
 virtually all wide-area carrier networks for the simple reason that they
 offer powerful new tools and significant cost savings. (For example, Arthur Little
 and Bell Labs estimate operating expense savings of 30 to 50 percent. Arthur D. Little, "Reshaping
 the Future with NFV and SDN" (report, Bell Labs, Murray Hill, NJ, May 2015), 9,
 http://www.adlittle.com/downloads/tx_adlreports/ADL_BellLabs_2015_Reshapingthefuture.pdf.) .
 These advantages are spurring surprisingly quick adoption of these
 techniques by industry. For example, AT&T plans for 30 percent of its CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 36 of 99 network to use SDN and NFV by the end of 2016 and 75 percent by 2020.
 (Sean Michael Kerner, "AT&T to Virtualize 75 Percent of Its Network by 2020," Enterprise
 Networking Planet, March 15, 2016, http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet. com/netsp/att-
 pledges-to-virtualize-75-percent-of-its-network-by-2020.html.). SDN separates the control of the network from the forwarding of
 information, offering network operators global control over switches and
 routers through software separate from the underlying hardware. This in
 turn allows networking applications, such as DNS, firewalling, and
 intrusion detection, to run in virtual systems installed on generic hardware
 whereas traditional network infrastructure relied on dedicated, fixed-
 function networking hardware. Combined, SDN and NFV allow greater
 network flexibility, easier introduction of new services, improved network
 manageability, and reduced costs. ("Data Plane Performance: A Key Enabler of SDN," based sites in the study of the 2013 blocks......(The study into the
 website blocks of 2013 did not have data on visits to ad-supported legal content sites.). o Relatively few users circumvented the website blocks. The study
 estimates that access to VPN sites increased 30 percent after the
 blocks, but this is likely off a relatively small base. The descriptive
 statistics show usage of VPN services is small relative to visits to
 other sites. For example, users in the study made 86,735 visits to
 the piracy sites before they were blocked, but only 1,688 to VPN
 sites (see descriptive statistics in Appendix B). o The blocks had the biggest impact on the heaviest users of piracy
 sites. The study estimates that the blocks caused the heaviest
 piracy users in the study sample to reduce their use of pirated
 material by 28 percent, while leading to a respective 48.1 percent
 and 36.9 percent increase in their purchases of legal ad-
 supported and subscription services. In summary, the study shows that while website blocking will not solve
 online piracy--no single tool, law, or practice will--it does reduce it while
 increasing the consumption of legal content. It then falls to other policies
 to target different parts of the piracy process and environment, which the
 United Kingdom does through a graduated response system for ISPs to
 notify users of reported infringement, funding for education campaigns
 about accessing legal and illegal content, and a specialized Police
 Intellectual Property Crime Unit to investigate and tackle copyright
 infringement. All these measures, when combined with ongoing service
 and technology innovations, help tip the balance back toward the digital CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 40 of 99 creators that rely on intellectual property to support and protect their
 creations and away from the rampant piracy that undermines their
 creativity. Normal Rules Do Not Apply to the Internet

 ........The CMU study also shows what other studies on the
 effectiveness of online enforcement have made clear--that the impact
 depends on public awareness and consistent and credible enforcement
 and implementation...... Some opponents of website blocking have seized upon reports of
 governments misusing intellectual property enforcement measures for
 unrelated means, such as the Russian police raid on advocacy groups and
 opposition newspapers in the name of searching for pirated software.
 (Clifford J. Levy, "Russia Uses Microsoft to Suppress Dissent," The New York Times, September 11,
 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/12/world/europe/12raids.html.). However, such
 cases are rare and would not stand up to the type of scrutiny that is
 involved in the hundreds of cases where website blocking has been used
 to fight online piracy in recent years. Online intellectual property
 enforcement is far from alone in being a public policy that could be
 misused in order to pursue unrelated and illegitimate objectives. In each
 case, what matters is the actual intent and the integrity of the process
 involved in administrating these policies. Opponents of website blocking, including some ISPs, believe that
 the costs of website blocking are high enough to make the practice
 untenable. Internet exceptionalists fill the void created by the lack of
 detailed information about website blocking costs to paint the policy as
 unfeasible and unfair to both ISPs and consumers. However, these claims
 should not be taken at face value. The fact that we have not heard any
 uproar over the costs of website blocking of sites that actively facilitate
 child pornography or terrorism shows that enacting these blocks is not
 prohibitively expensive. In line with this, UK courts noted that ISPs have
 already made much of the necessary investment in relevant technology,
 processes, and staff in response to other law enforcement requirements. As discussed above, website blocking costs look reasonable,
 especially when compared against total ISP operating revenue and
 investments. The UK government and judges presiding over website-
 blocking cases have stated that IP address-blocking would require ISPs to
 make additional investment in network hardware, but that these costs
 were not substantial, in many cases had already been made (to abide by
 other law enforcement decrees), and therefore would not present a barrier
 to IP blocking. Furthermore, in a similar process to what is required for
 website blocking, some DNS software vendors already offer customers an CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 41 of 99 add-on to DNS systems that blocks malicious domains.(Ofcom, "Site Blocking.";
 Ron Moscona, "Website Blocking Orders - A New Tool in the Fight Against Online Trade in
 Counterfeit Goods," Dorsey, October 24, 2014, https://www.dorsey.com/newsresources/
 publications/2014/10/website-blocking-orders--a-new-tool-in-the-fight__.). Critics claim that any measure to fight digital piracy will be abused
 by rights holders and that even the potential for such abuse is reason
 enough not to pursue online enforcement in the first place. This is why
 legislation and court orders in Australia, the United Kingdom, and
 elsewhere have built-in safeguards to ensure that only rights holders with
 high-quality cases--those involving websites that are dedicated to
 copyright infringement--are granted an injunction..... CONCLUSION

 As with any law-enforcement initiative, efforts to reduce digital
 piracy involve balancing costs and benefits. For example, while street
 crime could be reduced by doubling the number of police officers,
 communities seek an equilibrium where the marginal cost of an additional
 police office does not outweigh the benefits from a corresponding
 reduction in crime. Regarding digital piracy, it is hard to argue that this
 equilibrium has been reached--there remains a lot of societal benefit to be
 gained through better efforts to stop digital piracy. The extent of digital
 piracy is so large, and the costs of additional enforcement are so
 reasonable, that it is clearly in the public interest to take more aggressive
 steps to fight digital piracy. There is a reason why website blocking is being used in a growing
 number of countries: It can be a reasonable and useful tool to reduce
 piracy and encourage consumption of legal content. For it to be effective
 and workable, it needs to be predictable, transparent, accountable, low-
 cost, and quick to implement........ Many opponents focus on the fact there are technical ways to
 circumvent website- blocking orders. However, the CMU study and others
 show that these users make up a relatively small proportion of total
 Internet users--certainly not enough to render website-blocking orders
 ineffective. Some critics would say that if blocking a website is not
 effective all of the time, then it should not be used at all. This is the same
 weak argument used against virtually every type of countermeasure. Why
 bother locking a door, when it is possible for sophisticated thieves to pick
 the lock? The answer, clearly, is that most thieves are not that
 sophisticated. Complex problems with no single solution benefit from
 multilayered solutions. The standard for effectiveness should not be, as CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 42 of 99 some opponents claim, elimination of all piracy. Reduction is an important
 goal, and on this point, the CMU study shows that website blocking can
 certainly help achieve this goal." ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF LEARNED AMICUS CURIAE 13. Mr. Hemant Singh, learned Amicus Curiae stated that the first and
foremost issue before this Court was to determine whether the websites
complained of fell within the category of ―Flagrantly Infringing Online
Locations‖ (hereinafter referred to as ‗FIOL'). He contended that the Court
should not pass any orders against a website containing legitimate content
and thus, the onus was on the plaintiff who was seeking site-wide blocking
injunction to produce such evidence before the Court, which confirmed that
the website complained of was only operating for sharing / downloading
infringing/ pirated content and was not limited to the plaintiffs' contents but
also third parties' content. 14. He stated that caution had to be undertaken as there could be a
website which could have both infringing content of plaintiff and legitimate
content of third parties. According to him, the FIOL would be only such
website where there was no legitimate content and if the evidence produced
before Court was not of such nature, then prayers of wide ramification,
interfering with legitimate content should not be granted. 15. Learned Amicus Curiae stated that upon assessing the injuncted and
blocked website www.bmovies.pro, he had been redirected to
www4.fmovies.to, a mirror website, which showed that 29,485 movies/ TV
series were arranged in an alphabetical manner. He stated that each alphabet
depicted the total number of movies/TV series available e.g. under alphabet CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 43 of 99 ‗A', 1935 movies/TV Series were available, under alphabet ‗B', 1913
movies/TV Series were available, under alphabet ‗C', 1584 so on and so
forth. 16. He pointed out that there were at least 122 other movies of the
plaintiffs on www4.fmovies.to. Learned Amicus Curiae stated that the
plaintiffs had not fully checked their own movies on the said website, let
alone third-party content. He contended that the least due diligence expected
of the plaintiffs was to provide evidence of at least all of their own movies,
if not of third parties (though expected) that were illegally available on the
impugned websites. 17. He submitted that the ―three-step verification‖ test evolved by the
Bombay High Court in Eros International Media Vs. BSNL, Suit No. 751
of 2016, which consisted of verification by an independent entity, extensive
documents being placed on record and an affidavit on oath, was not satisfied
in the present case. He contended that the evidence of the nature envisaged
by courts was lacking in the present case. The relevant portion of the orders
in Eros International Media (supra) relied upon by Mr. Hemant Singh are
reproduced hereinbelow:- a) Order dated 22nd July, 2016
 ―2. I am making it clear that I will not grant an injunction or
 order to block URLs that point to websites unless it is
 demonstrated that the entirety of the website contains, and
 contains only, illicit material. Without that being attested to and
 established on Affidavit, I will not consider an order that results
 in the blocking of an entire website.‖ CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 44 of 99 b) Order dated 26th July, 2016
 ―14. Thus, what I have before me now is a three-step
 verification. First, a verification and an assessment by Aiplex
 (Plaintiff). This is accompanied by their letter in writing. There
 is then a second level of verification that is said to have been
 done by the deponent of the Affidavit along with the Plaintiffs'
 Advocates; and finally all of this material is placed on Affidavit
 and is now on oath. I think this is sufficient material on which to
 base an order.‖ 18. However, Mr. Hemant Singh, learned Amicus Curiae admitted that
online piracy was a menace. He stated that the problem was compounded
due to high end technology that was used by FIOL. He pointed out that
certain FIOLs like Torrents do not have a centralized server whereupon files
are stored. Instead, users download freely available specialized software,
which once connected to the Internet, connects the user's computer into a
Peer to Peer (P2P) network of other computers using the same software. He
stated that a torrent is a file that allows a user to download bits and pieces of
the content from several sources at the same time, which is assembled into
the final complete copy onto the user's system. The content/data is stored on
these systems (either completely or in bits or parts) and is made available for
download through the specialized software. Given the scattered nature of
the content as well as the inadvertent complicity of many persons, it
becomes extremely difficult to pin-point the exact source of the content and
for right-holders to take action. A helpful illustration of the P2P
infrastructure, prepared by learned Amicus Curiae, is reproduced
hereinbelow: 19. He pointed out that the courts across the world have grappled with
devising appropriate mechanisms to prevent the menace of FIOL which
largely included blocking of the specific URLs or the website in general.
Some of the technical measures which had been employed to block,
according to him, are reproduced hereinbelow:- a. DNS Name Blocking: The ‗Domain Name System' [DNS] is the system which associates
 the colloquial name of a website (www.example.com) to the IP
 address of the site's web server, whereupon the website is hosted.
 DNS name blocking involves an ISP removing or modifying its
 records of the IP address for a particular Domain Name, thus ensuring
 that requests for such domain name are rendered void. b. IP Address Blocking (IPB): IP Address blocking involves ISPs discarding any traffic received
 from impugned IP address, as opposed to the website name. As
 several websites may be hosted on one server with a unique IP CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 47 of 99 address, each of them, no matter what their name, would be blocked
 in case the IP address is blocked. c. Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) based Blocking: 20. He admitted that the aforesaid measures of DNS, IPB and DPI
blocking face challenges such as legitimate contents being blocked, invasion
of privacy, high cost of deployment etc. He submitted that there was a
serious concern associated with blocking orders that would prevent access to
legitimate content in the cases of copyright. 21. According to him, Courts all over the world have considered the
effect of over-blocking and have held that in order to ensure proper balance
between the implementation of blocking injunctions and rights of the third-
parties, it is essential to make sure that these blocking injunctions are CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 49 of 99 proportionate. The proportionality principle, according to him, is designed to
ensure that interferences with rights is justified as being no more than
necessary to protect the rights or to achieve other legitimate goals. The
learned Amicus Curiae relied upon the following case law:- 314/12, 27 March 2014: This case decided in March 2014
 established ―no fault‖ site blocking injunctions under Article 8.3 of the EU InfoSoc Directive, opening the way for broader
 implementation of site blocking throughout the European Union.
 o Specifically, questions were posed by the Higher
 Regional Court, Vienna, Austria, essentially as to: 1) whether Article 8(3) of the EU InfoSoc Directive is to be interpreted as
 meaning that a person who makes protected subject-matter
 available on the internet without the rightholder's consent is
 using the services of the Internet service providers, and
 therefore, the Internet service provider is an ―intermediary‖
 within the meaning of Article 8(3); and 2 ) whether it is
 compatible with EU law to prohibit an internet access provider
 from, allowing its customers access to a certain website when the
 material available on that website is provided exclusively or
 predominantly without the rightholder's consent.
 o The Court answered in the affirmative and the Court of
 Justice of the European Union laid the groundwork for national
 Courts to (as the Court had in Newzbin 2) issue a broad
 injunction against an Internet service provider to block websites.
 The CJEU found that an injunction would not infringe upon the
 fundamental right to conduct business because the ISP was free
 to decide upon the measure to be put in place to protect against
 this type of copyright infringement. The injunction would also
 allow Telekabel to avoid liability by showing that it has taken all
 necessary precautions, essentially confirming a ―no fault‖
 injunction approach in the EU. D) Germany (2015): GEMA v Deutsche Telekom, BGH,
 Urteile v. 26 (GEMA), November 2015 - I ZR 3/14 und I ZR CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 51 of 99 174/14: Germany's Federal Constitutional Court (BGH) in late
 2015 confirmed that site blocking does not breach privacy rights
 under both German and EU law, and is consistent with the
 German Constitution. o In analyzing whether site blocking can be consistent with Article 10(1) of the German Constitution (right of privacy of
 telecommunications), the Court noted, "[t]he starting point for
 the protection in Art. 10 (1) ... is always the non-public exchange
 of specific communications of participants; in contrast,
 communications addressed to the general public are not covered
 by this provision." o The Court found, ―a site providing links to downloads on
 the internet directed at an unspecific number of addressees does
 not constitute confidential individual communication; rather it is,
 a public offering, not covered by the scope of protection of Art.
 10 (1) ... .‖ The Court also concluded that DNS blocking ―does
 not affect the confidentiality of communication protected under Art. 10 (1)... .‖ The Court weaves a path for IP or URL blocking
 as well,[13] but is more emphatic about DNS blocking's
 conformity with the German Constitution, noting DNS blocks are
 inherently unproblematic in this basic point as the establishment
 of connections is simply prevented - without access to IP
 addresses. According to the Court, offering files for public
 download and accessing those files does not constitute an
 individual communication protected by Article 10 of the German
 Constitution. o Further, ―[t]he fact that access to a public offer of a
 download occurs in each case through means of individual
 technical communications. connections does not justify a
 classification as communication within the meaning of Art. 10 (1) German Constitution, because a mere technical communication
 does not exhibit the specific risks for the privacy of the
 communication which that provision protects.... Such access
 actually constitutes a public form of communication comparable
 to the use of mass media.....‖ CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 52 of 99 o Importantly, and addressing one of the key objections to
 site blocking, the Court further concluded, ―the (automated)
 obtaining of knowledge, on the part of the provider, of the
 circumstances of communication is limited to that necessary to
 interrupt the communication.‖ This is consistent with prior
 rulings that there is no interference with the fundamental right to
 privacy ―in the case of the recording of telecommunications
 events, provided they are recorded purely using technical means,
 anonymously and without trace and are immediately filtered out
 without any interests of the authorities in gaining knowledge,
 thereof.‖ The Court also examined site blocking in light of the
 EU's strict privacy rights provisions, and the EU Charter of
 Fundamental Rights, finding site blocking to be consistent with
 both. Specifically, the Court concluded that site blocking does
 not breach Article 7 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights,
 since the purpose of the right - protecting ― the confidentiality of
 communication which is directed at particular addressees and
 not at the public‖ - is not affected by the blocking of public
 offerings of downloads or access to them.‖ This is consistent
 with site blocking decisions in other EU jurisdictions. While the
 case itself did not result in the first site block in Germany, it can
 be said the GEMA case paved the way for the Constantin
 decision to come. E) Germany (2018): Constantin Film Verleih GmbH v. Vodafone Kabel Deutschland GmbH (2018) (Case number: 7 O
 17752/17) (Constantin): In this landmark decision handed down
 in February 2018, the Munich District Court ordered site
 blocking in Germany for the first time. o The Court ruled that Vodafone had to bear the
 implementation costs (and had to pay rights holder Constantin's
 legal costs). In arriving at its decision, the Court applied the
 German Telemedia Act, and applied the secondary liability
 doctrine of Storerhaftung, and the Court's decision is consistent
 with Germany's obligations under Article 8.3 of the EU InfoSoc
 Directive. o Vodafone appealed the decision in March, but on June
 14, after an oral hearing before the Court of Appeal Munich, the
 three-judge panel denied the appeal unanimously. 22. Mr. Hemant Singh lastly contended that if the obligation of an ISP is
limited to particular domain names, it would make the whole issue of
granting blocking injunctions pointless, since there exists high likelihood of
the infringers operating under a different domain name as soon as or even
during the time the injunction is granted. He pointed out that recently, the
Milan Court of First Instance [http://ipkitten.blogspot.com/ 2018/08/milan-court-issues- dynamic-blocking.html] ruled that Dynamic Injunctions are compatible with the
E-commerce Directive. He submitted that this Court can exercise powers
under Section 151 CPC to pass dynamic injunction limited to the mirror/re-
directed FIOL. He, however, stated that caution of supervision needed to be
exercised to prevent misuse and overreach. He suggested that the Court
should direct the plaintiffs to file detailed affidavits before the learned Joint
Registrar who may examine whether the website sought to be included in
the affidavit is a mirror FIOL or not. He stated that once the learned Joint
Registrar is satisfied, such orders may be extended. NEITHER THE ISPs OR DoT OR MEITY ADVANCED ANY ARGUMENTS 23. Neither the DoT nor MEITY advanced any arguments before the
Court. Even the ISPs to maintain their neutrality did not advance any
arguments. Learned counsel for ISPs as well as DoT and MEITY stated that
they would abide by any order passed by this Court. THOUGH THIS COURT IS SATISFIED THAT THERE IS NO FACT
WHICH NEEDS TO BE PROVED IN VIEW OF THE DEEMED
ADMISSION BY THE DEFENDANTS UNDER ORDER VIII RULE 10 CPC ,
YET KEEPING IN VIEW THE SEMINAL ISSUES THAT ARISE FOR
CONSIDERATION, THIS COURT DECIDES TO PEN ITS OPINION 24. Despite being served through the contact information provided in the
Whois details and/or other publicly available information, none of the
defendant-websites have chosen to rebut or challenge till date any of the
factual assertions or the evidence placed by plaintiffs in support of their
claims. Though this Court is satisfied that there is no fact which needs to be
proved in view of the deemed admission by the defendants under Order VIII
Rule 10 CPC , yet keeping in view the seminal issues that arise for
consideration, this Court decides to pen its opinion. COURT'S REASONING

THE GENERAL INDUSTRY EVIDENCE APPEARS CONSISTENT WITH A
HYPOTHESIS THAT DIGITAL PIRACY HAS HURT THE MOVIE
INDUSTRY. IN FACT, ONLINE PIRACY HAS HAD A VERY REAL AND
TANGIBLE IMPACT ON THE FILM INDUSTRY AND RIGHTS OF THE
OWNERS. 25. According to the report ‗The Economic Impacts of Counterfeiting and
Piracy' prepared for BASCAP and INTA, the general industry evidence
appears consistent with a hypothesis that digital piracy has hurt the movie
industry. Revenues for sales and rentals of pre-recorded movies in the U.S.
declined by more than 20% between 2005 and 2010 after having increased
steadily until then. Box office revenues have remained relatively constant
during the same period although a gradual 47% rise over the decade leading CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 55 of 99 upto 2002 might have suggested an upward trend if it were to continue at the
same pace. 26. In fact, the introduction of BitTorrent in 2003-04 has coincided with
the turning point in the revenues of the film industry. This statement is based
on the fact that the ease with which copyrighted material can be copied and
shared online across jurisdictional borders makes it challenging for right
holders to protect their works as they do in the offline world where customs
agents can typically intercept physical goods, such as CDs and DVDs, that
contain illegal copies of songs, movies, TV shows and other content. It is
estimated that by the end of 2022 (See https://cdn.iccwbo.org/content/uploads/ sites/3/2017/02/ICC-
BASCAP-Frontier-report-2016.pdf), the loss of legitimate revenue on account of film
piracy would reach $289-644 billion. 27. Mr. Nigel Cory in his Article ―How Website Blocking Is Curbing
Digital Piracy Without ―Breaking the Internet‖ (supra) points out that a
2016 study by the European Union's Intellectual Property Office highlights
the size and scale of the piracy. It estimated that the European music
industry lost €170 million in sales revenue in 2014 as a consequence of
digital piracy. This equals a loss of 5.2 percent of its total annual sales (both
physical and digital) to piracy. When indirect economic impacts are
included, digital piracy is estimated to lead to €336 million in lost sales in
the European Union, which leads to an estimated 2,155 lost jobs. This has
real economic consequences, as approximately 39 percent of total economic
activity and 26 percent of all employment in the European Union is in
intellectual property-intensive industries, with another 9 percent of jobs
supported by the economic activity of these industries. 28. It is estimated that in India, while the film industry earns
around $2 billion from legitimate sources such as screening at theaters,
home videos and TV rights, piracy earns 35 per cent more at $2.7
billion (See:home.kpmg.com/in/en/home/events/2017/03/kpmg-india-ficci-media-entertainment-report-2017.html).
According to the Irdeto Global Consumer Piracy Threat Report 2018, India
is one of the top five countries with the highest P2P downloads taking place,
as close to 965 million P2P downloads took place in India between January
2017 and May 2018. 29. It is important to realise that piracy reduces jobs, exports and overall
competitiveness in addition to standards of living for a nation and its
citizens. More directly, online piracy harms the artists and creators, both the
struggling as well as the rich and famous, who create content, as well as the
technicians-sound engineers, editors, set designers, software and game
designers-who produce it and those who support its marketing, distribution
and end sales. Consequently, online piracy has had a very real and tangible
impact on the film industry and rights of the owners. THE INDIAN COPYRIGHT ACT CONFERS A BUNDLE OF EXCLUSIVE
RIGHTS ON THE OWNER OF A ―WORK‖ AND PROVIDES FOR
REMEDIES IN CASE THE COPYRIGHT IS INFRINGED. THIS COURT IS
OF THE OPINION THAT IT HAS AMPLE POWERS TO MOULD THE
RELIEF TO ENSURE THAT THE PLAINTIFFS' RIGHTS ARE
ADEQUATELY PROTECTED. 30. The Indian Copyright Act, 1957 (―the Copyright Act ‖) confers a
bundle of exclusive rights on the owner of a ―work‖ and provides for
remedies in case the copyright is infringed. The relevant portion of CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 57 of 99 Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Copyright (Amendment) Act,
1994, is reproduced hereinbelow:- 31. Section 2(y) of the Copyright Act defines ―work‖ as including a
cinematograph film, which is defined under Section 2(f) . The said sections
read as under:- 32. Section 14 specifies the exclusive rights of the owners. Section 14(d) provides that communication to the public of a cinematograph film or any
substantial part thereof is one such exclusive right. The relevant portion of
the said Section is reproduced hereinbelow:- 33. Section 2(ff) defines ―communication to the public‖. It reads as
follows:- 34. The above definitions make it clear that making any work available
for being seen or heard by the public whether simultaneously or at places
chosen individually, regardless of whether the public actually sees the film,
will constitute communication of the film to the public. The intent was to
include digital copies of works, which would include within its scope digital
copies of works being made available online (as opposed to the physical CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 59 of 99 world). Communication can be by various means such as directly or by
display or diffusion. In this context, definition of ―broadcast‖ is also relevant
which identifies communication to public by wireless diffusion or by wire.
Thus, making available of a film for streaming or downloads in the form of
digital copies on the internet is within the scope of ―communication to the
public‖. 35. It is pertinent to note that the definition of ―communication to the
public‖ was first added in the Copyright Act by the 1983 Amendment and
was as follows:- 36. Subsequently, as is evident from the Statement of Objects and
Reasons of the 1994 Amendments, various amendments were brought to
incorporate the technological advances. The 1994 Amendments substituted a
more expansive definition of ―communication to the public‖ in order to
address various technological advances, which was as follows:- 37. The Copyright Act was further amended in 2012 to partially
implement obligations under the 1996 WIPO Internet Treaties (WIPO
Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty), in
light of the substantial developments in technology with the aim of
protecting copyright in the digital context. 38. Section 51(a)(i) provides that copyright is infringed when any person,
without authorisation of the copyright owners, does anything of which the
exclusive right lies with the owner of copyright. Thus, the defendants'
websites, which are communicating the films to the public by making the
films available for being seen or heard or enjoyed through their websites, are
infringing the plaintiffs' copyrights in the film. 39. Additionally, Section 51(a)(ii) imposes liability on owner of a place
when such owner permits his place to be used for communication of the film
to the public for profit, without authorisation of the copyright owner. Such
liability can be avoided only if the owner of the place is able to establish that
he was not aware and had reasonable ground to believe that the
communication of the work in his place was not an infringement. 40. Section 52(1)(c) of the Copyright Act exempts from liability, any
transient or incidental storage of a work for the purpose of providing access
to content where such access has not been expressly prohibited by the
copyright. Thus, ISPs are exempt from liability of copyright infringement
under Section 52(1)(c) for any transient or incidental storage of a film.
However, the proviso to this section mandates that if a complaint is
received, an ISP shall restrain access to content for a period of twenty-one
days or upon receiving a competent court order. Pertinently, if no such order CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 61 of 99 is received by the ISP within twenty-one days, the proviso permits the ISP to
reinstate access to the stored film. 41. In the present cases, no defendants' website has appeared before this
Court or answered any notice claiming a limitation of liability under any
provision including Section 52(1)(c) of the Copyright Act. 42. The Information Technology Act, 2000 (― IT Act ‖) incorporates the
defence of safe habour for the intermediaries. It defines an intermediary
under Section 2(1)(w) , as including ISPs. The IT Act , under Section 79 ,
creates a safe harbour for all intermediaries from liability for any third-party
data, information or communication link that is made available by the ISP.
Such exemption applies when the function of ISPs is limited to providing a
communication system over which third party information is transmitted or
temporarily stored. However, copyright is not included in the activities to
be covered under the IT Act , so is generally inapplicable to this batch of
matters. 43. Further, while dealing with Section 79 and the issue of extent of
knowledge of an intermediary for it to act and take down content, the
Supreme Court in Shreya Singhal vs. Union of India , (2015) 5 SCC 1 has
held that the requisite knowledge which obligates an intermediary to act is
when it receives a Court order directing the blocking of access. Mere receipt
of notice does not obligate the intermediaries to act and take down content. The relevant portion of the judgment of Shreya Singhal vs. Union of India (supra) is reproduced hereinbelow:- 44. Subsequently, a Division Bench of this Court in Myspace Inc. v.
Super Cassettes Industries Ltd. , 2016 SCC OnLine Del 6382 has held that
though Section 79 grants a measured privilege to an intermediary, yet that
does not mean that the rights guaranteed under the Copyright Act are
curtailed in any manner. All that Section 79 does is to regulate the liability
in respect of intermediaries, while the Copyright Act grants and controls
rights of a copyright owner. 45. In any event, the plaintiffs herein do not seek to block Websites based
on mere notices, although, with respect to mirrors and redirects (additional
domain names, IP addresses, and URLs discovered to provide access to the
same FIOL complained of), the plaintiffs contend that this Court may issue
an order providing that plaintiffs may, by notification to the ISPs, add such
additional means of accessing the FIOL's to the original orders. 46. Section 69A of the IT Act creates an administrative remedy
empowering the Central Government to block access to any information on
the grounds of- 47. Copyright infringement does not fall within the suo motu powers of
the Central Government to direct blocking. To be fair to the plaintiffs, they
also did not seek to invoke the Government's powers under the IT Act .
Rather the claim of the plaintiffs is based on this Court's jurisdiction to issue
orders under the Copyright Act . 48. In the opinion of this Court, the defendant-websites are liable for
copyright infringement under Section 51 of the Copyright Act. They cannot
claim the exemption of Section 52(1)(c) as they are not entities that
transiently and incidentally store the plaintiffs' films. They further cannot
claim the exemption under Section 79 of the IT Act as they are not
intermediaries. 49. Section 55 of the Copyright Act provides civil remedies to the rights
holders which includes entitlement to an injunction order on approaching the
Court. Consequently, the Court has ample inherent powers to mould the
relief to ensure that the plaintiffs' rights as copyright owners are adequately
protected. WHETHER AN INFRINGER OF COPYRIGHT ON THE INTERNET IS TO
BE TREATED DIFFERENTLY FROM AN INFRINGER IN THE PHYSICAL
WORLD ? 50. However, many believe that Internet is a unique highway or a separate
space (i.e. Cyberspace) to be left totally free i.e. unrestricted. They believe
that this space should be left free to be used by an infringer or by a law
abiding individual simultaneously. Internet exceptionalists, such as the
Electronic Frontier Foundation, are defined by the belief that because the
Internet is exceptional, most rules that apply offline should not apply online.
Followers of this school of thought believe that the Internet is first and
foremost about individual freedom, not about collective responsibility.
Their view is that the Internet's chief function is to liberate individuals from
control by, or dependence on Government and Corporations. They believe in
the maturity of the public. The followers of this school of thought
acknowledge that online piracy comes at the cost of legal sales, but they
rationalize this loss by saying that it only hurts the profits of content firms,
implying that if the choice is between infringement that rewards consumers
with free content versus legality that helps corporations, then the former is to
be preferred. 51. However, this Court finds that the majority of piracy websites are in it
not for any ideological reason but for one reason: to make money. Modern
digital piracy is a multibillion-dollar international business. (Only a small
fraction of sites are supported by ideologies which believe that piracy is a
social good.) For example, the owners of The Pirate Bay were earning $3
million a year, according to Swedish prosecutors. More recently, U.S. law
enforcement stated that one of the world's most popular piracy sites--
KickassTorrents--was making $16 million annually in advertising. 52. Business models differ, but the majority of piracy sites make money
via advertising, or to a lesser degree, through subscriptions that provide
premium access to content without advertising. The Digital Citizens
Alliance's Good Money Still Going Bad: Digital Thieves and the Hijacking
of the Online Ad Business report showed that 589 of the largest piracy sites
generated more than $200 million in advertising-driven revenues in 2014.
Another report showed that 80 percent of the top piracy websites (550 of 622) in Europe carried advertising, showing how easy it is for piracy sites to
profit from online advertising and how profit-driven these sites are. Piracy
sites take advantage of the fact that the online economy has become more
complex and easier to exploit. There are many intermediaries that aggregate
ad space--known as an ad exchange--from a range of websites (both
legitimate and illegitimate) for advertisers to use. This makes it easy for
websites hosting illegal content to gain advertising revenue, including from
legitimate brands and businesses, which may be several steps and
organizations removed from the host site. 53. Also should an infringer of the copyright on the Internet be treated
differently from an infringer in the physical world? If the view of the CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 66 of 99 aforesaid Internet exceptionalists school of thought is accepted, then all
infringers would shift to the e-world and claim immunity! 54. A world without law is a lawless world. In fact, this Court is of the
view that there is no logical reason why a crime in the physical world is not
a crime in the digital world especially when the Copyright Act does not
make any such distinction. WHETHER SEEKING BLOCKING OF A WEBSITE DEDICATED TO
PIRACY MAKES ONE AN OPPONENT OF A FREE AND OPEN
INTERNET ? 55. If the views of Internet exceptionalists were to be accepted, then a
boon like Cyberspace would turn into a disaster. Further, just as supporting
bans on the import of ivory or cross-border human trafficking does not make
one a protectionist, supporting website blocking for sites dedicated to piracy
does not make one an opponent of a free and open Internet. Consequently,
this Court is of the opinion that advocating limits on accessing illegal
content online does not violate open Internet principles. 56. The key issue about Internet freedom, therefore, is not whether the
Internet is and should be completely free or whether Governments should
have unlimited censorship authority, but rather where the appropriate lines
should be drawn, how they are drawn and how they are implemented. WHAT IS A ‗ROGUE WEBSITE'? 57. One of the key issues around digital piracy is the importance of
distinguishing between accidental and intentional piracy. Some experts are
apprehensive that anti-piracy orders can go too far, sweeping in the former CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 67 of 99 when they should be more focused on the latter. There are risks that cleverly
drafted plaints could intentionally harm sites that are largely focused on
legal material and that diligently work to limit infringing material. But one
also knows that doing nothing contributes to further piracy. In the opinion of
this Court, finding this balance does not mean abandoning efforts to go after
international piracy. 58. Music and film piracy are primarily facilitated on the net by FIOLs or
Rogue Websites. They are those websites which primarily and
predominantly share infringing/ pirated content or illegal work (See: Para 2 of

Order dated 29.07.2016 in DEITY Vs. Star India Pvt. Ltd, FAO (OS) 57/2015). Either these websites,
themselves allow streaming of content or provide a searchable database with
links to third-party FIOLs. The Registrant details of these websites are
unknown and any or all contact information is masked/blocked. Even the Ad
Networks employed on these websites are not run-of-the-mill popular
networks, but obscure Ad Networks, with equally anonymized credentials.
These websites invite consumers for watching free movies/contents.
Although, some of these websites feebly claim to only provide links to third-
party websites and not host content on their servers, yet their entire
module/interface is premised on allowing users to watch pirated
releases/movies by way of links, and which account for all the content
available on their sites. 59. In the opinion of this Court, some of the factors to be considered for
determining whether the website complained of is a FIOL/Rogue Website
are:- 60. This Court clarifies that the aforementioned factors are illustrative and
not exhaustive and do not apply to intermediaries as they are governed by IT
Act , having statutory immunity and function in a wholly different manner. WHETHER THE TEST FOR DETERMINING A ROGUE WEBSITE IS
QUALITATIVE OR A QUANTITATIVE ONE? 61. This Court finds that globally, Courts examine whether the primary
purpose and effect of the website is to facilitate infringement as opposed to
examining purely the quantity of infringing content on the website. 62. Indeed, in the case of Eros International Media Ltd. & Anr. v.
Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. & Ors., Suit No.751/2016 , as suggested by the
learned Amicus Curiae, a learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court
held that for a blocking order to be passed against the entirety of a website,
it must be shown by the plaintiffs that they have found the entire website to
contain only illicit and infringing material with no legitimate content
whatsoever. The Bombay High Court in the said case had raised certain
doubts regarding the veracity of the evidence filed by the plaintiffs in that
case because after a random check of the evidence, it was observed that
some evidence was filed seeking blocking of resale of genuine CDs of a film
as well. It was in this context that the Court formulated a three step
verification process, which the Court directed ought to be followed in future
matters where blocking orders are sought. The three-steps included: 63. However, in the case of Department of Electronics and Information
Technology v. Star India Pvt. Ltd., FAO(OS ) 57/2015, a Division Bench of
this Court followed a qualitative approach instead of the quantitative
approach suggested by the Bombay High Court by observing that the rogue
websites are overwhelmingly infringing and therefore prima facie the
stringent measure to block the website as a whole was justified. It further
held that blocking of specific URLs will not be sufficient due to the ease
with which a URL can be changed. The task of continuously identifying
each offending URL would be a gargantuan task and at the same time would
be useless as the rogue websites could change these URLs within seconds.
Relevant portion of the Division Bench judgment is reproduced
hereinbelow:- Therefore, the availability of alternative measures which are less
 onerous need to be considered. The cost associated with the
 measures which would include the cost of implementing the
 measures, also has to be taken into account. The efficacy of the
 measures which are ordered to be adopted by the ISPs have also
 to be kept in mind. 13. Now, an ISP could argue that the lesser measure to block
 the URL would suffice. This argument stands to logic and
 reason, but would have no content where the offending activity
 by the rogue website is to carrying on hardly any lawful business
 and in its entirety or to a large extent, piracy is being resorted to. 14. The respondent has placed enough material in the suit to
 show that the rogue websites are indulging in rank piracy and
 thus prima facie the stringent measure to block the website as a
 whole is justified because blocking a URL may not suffice due to
 the ease with which a URL can be changed, and as noted above,
 the number of URLs of the rogue websites range between 2 to
 2026 and cumulatively would be approximately 20,000. It would
 be a gargantuan task for the respondent to keep on identifying
 each offending URL and especially keeping in view that as and
 when the respondent identifies the URL and it is blocked by the
 ISP, the rogue website, within seconds can change the URL
 thereby frustrating the very act of blocking the URL.‖ 64. The aforesaid Division Bench judgment, which is a binding judgment,
is subsequent in time to the Bombay High Court order. 65. Moreover, the Bombay High Court order was passed in a quia timet
action for an injunction order against the potential infringement of a movie
that was yet to be released. The evidence that was filed, related to past CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 72 of 99 infringements connected with other films of the plaintiffs. In such an
instance, the learned Single Judge felt it was imperative to strictly follow the
above three-step verification. However, the present case is based on actual
infringement and not quia timet action. 66. Further, in the opinion of this Court, if the standard of proof proposed
by the learned Amicus Curiae were to be applied, the burden on every right
owner would be disproportionate and onerous as it would have to first
identify the owners of each of the content available on a website (which
could be thousands in number) and thereafter, seek a declaration from each
of the owners that the content being provided is illegal and unauthorised.
Such a test would virtually ensure that no website would ever be eligible for
a takedown/blocking order and would render the right owners remediless. 67. In fact, the analysis of the learned Amicus Curiae of the defendant-
websites is based purely on alphanumeric variation website which became
alive subsequent to the blocking order and which re-directed one to the
primary infringing website - a fact itself shows the rogue nature of the
website. 68. This Court is also of the opinion that if the test to declare a website as
a rogue website is that it should contain only illicit or infringing material,
then each and every rogue website would add a small percentage of
legitimate content and pray that it be not declared an infringing website! 69. Consequently, the real test for examining whether a website is a
Rogue Website is a qualitative approach and not a quantitative one. WHETHER THE DEFENDANT-WEBSITES FALL IN THE CATEGORY OF
ROGUE WEBSITES ? 70. In the present batch of matters, there is sufficient evidence on record
to show that the main purpose of each of the thirty websites (arrayed as
defendants) is to commit or facilitate copyright infringement and the
defendants' websites provide access to a large library of films, including
films of the plaintiffs without their authorisation. The websites had been
designed to facilitate easy access to cinematograph films, including the
subject films, in breach of the copyright in those films. They contain indexes
of the films, which are categorised including by quality, genre, viewership
and ratings. Instructions to circumvent measures taken to disable access
were also found on a number of these websites, as evidenced by screenshots
of posts, which show the owner or operator of the websites informing users
of a change of domain name for the websites. In fact, the infringing nature
of the defendants' websites is apparent from the fact that their WHOIS detail
is masked and no personal or traceable detail is available either of the
Registrant or of the user; DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act)
declaration is an eyewash as despite receipt of legal notice from plaintiffs,
infringing content is still being played and access to the online location had
been disabled by orders of another country on the ground of copyright
infringement. A chart showing the infringing nature of the defendant
websites is reproduced hereinbelow:- b) DMCA (Digital @145 & 158
 Millennium
 Copyright Act)
 declaration an
 eyewash as
 despite receipt
 of legal notice
 from plaintiffs,
 no action taken. UTV Software Communications Ltd. & Ors. V. Rarbg.is CS(COMM)
776/2018

 S.No. Criteria Particulars Page No. 1. Primary purpose is a) WHOIS detail @5
 copyright is masked and no CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 75 of 99 infringement personal or traceable
 detail is available
 either of the
 Registrant or of the
 user. b) Legal Notices
 @ 175 c) Content Playing
 after Legal Notice @58 2. Index/directories Indexes/categories @46 3. Disregard for a) Legal Notices @175
 copyright b) Content
 @58
 Playing after
 Legal Notice 4. Court Orders a) Portugal @142-154
 (International) b) Australia 5. Circumvention of Advertisement to @18
 court orders unblock blocked
 websites

UTV Software Communications Ltd. & Ors. V. Extratorrent.ag & Ors. UTV Software Communications Ltd. & Ors. V. Yts.am & Ors.
(COMM) 778/2018 1. Primary purpose is a)WHOIS detail is @5
 copyright masked and no
 infringement personal or
 traceable detail is
 available either of CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 77 of 99 the Registrant or of
 the user. UTV Software Communications Ltd. & Ors. V. thepiratebay.org & Ors. UTV Software Communications Ltd. & Ors. V. Fmovies.pe & Ors. UTV Software Communications Ltd. & Ors. V. Torrentmovies.pe
CS(COMM) 800/2018

 S.No. Criteria Particulars Page No. 1. Primary purpose is a) WHOIS detail is @5
 copyright masked and no
 infringement personal or CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 80 of 99 traceable detail is
 available either of
 the Registrant or
 of the user. UTV Software Communications Ltd. & Ors. V. 1337x.to & Ors. 71. Consequently, in the present cases, the aforesaid ―qualitative test‖ is
satisfied for the following reasons:- 72. Accordingly, for the foregoing reasons, it is held that the defendant-
websites are rogue websites. IT IS VERY DIFFICULT FOR INDIA OR OTHER COUNTRIES TO BRING
CASES AGAINST FOREIGN DIGITAL PIRACY SITES. ABSENT CHANGE
IN ATTITUDE OF GOVERNMENTS OF SCOFFLAW NATIONS, INDIA
LIKE OTHER COUNTRIES, WILL NEED TO WORK WITH INTERNET
INTERMEDIARIES AS THE MAIN SOLUTION. 73. However, fighting digital piracy gets much harder at the international
level. This is because many countries that are home to digital piracy sites
have governments that will not or cannot shut them down, whether because
there are weak or non-existent intellectual property protections or for
geopolitical reasons. From a multilateral legal perspective, it is very difficult
for India or others to bring cases against foreign digital piracy sites. To
succeed, India requires the cooperation of the foreign governments where
the site is hosted, and despite the fact that virtually every nation that acts as
a haven for piracy sites is in the World Trade Organization and is a
signatory to the multilateral agreement protecting intellectual property-the
Trade related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement-
many nations refuse to address digital piracy in their own jurisdictions. But,
does that mean that as IPR laws are territorial, they can be violated with
impunity by an infringer/intellectual property infringer just because he has
committed infringement through a server hosted abroad. 74. Governments across the world have grappled to find the most
effective ways to address the issue of piracy of copyrighted works online.
This Court is in agreement with Mr. Nigel Cory's view that absent changes
to the WTO, or a change in attitude of governments of scofflaw nations,
India like other countries will need to work with Internet intermediaries as
the main solution. WHETHER THIS COURT WOULD BE JUSTIFIED TO PASS
DIRECTIONS TO BLOCK THE ‗ROGUE WEBSITES' IN THEIR
ENTIRETY ? 75. Website blocking has emerged as one of the most successful, cost
effective and proportionate means to address this issue. As pointed out by
the learned Amicus Curiae, website blocking can be of various kinds
namely, Internet Protocol (IP) Address Blocking, Domain Name System
(DNS) Blocking and Uniform Resource Locator (URL) Blocking. 76. In the opinion of this Court, the extent of website blocking should be
proportionate and commensurate with the extent and nature of the
infringement. In fact, a Court should pass a website blocking order only if it
is satisfied that the same is ‗necessary' and ‗proportionate'. 77. While ‗necessary' means a particular measure is essential to achieve
that aim, i.e. whether there are other less restrictive means capable of
producing the same result; ‗proportionate' means it must be established that
the measures do not have an excessive effect on the defendant's interest. 78. The proportionality principle requires that a ‗fair balance' be struck
between competing fundamental rights, i.e., between the right to intellectual
property on the one hand, and the right to trade and freedom of expression
on the other. A Division Bench of this Court in Myspace Inc. v. Super
Cassettes Industries Ltd. (supra) has observed as under:- 79. In fact, keeping in view the proportionality principle, the Courts have
refrained from passing orders requiring pre-filtering and proactive
monitoring of the Internet. 80. In the opinion of this Court, while blocking is antithetical to efforts to
preserve a ―free and open‖ Internet, it does not mean that every website
should be freely accessible. Even the most vocal supporters of Internet
freedom recognize that it is legitimate to remove or limit access to some
materials online, such as sites that facilitate child pornography and terrorism.
Undoubtedly, there is a serious concern associated with blocking orders that
it may prevent access to legitimate content. There is need for a balance in
approach and policies to avoid unnecessary cost or impact on other interests
and rights. Consequently, the onus is on the right holders to prove to the
satisfaction of the Court that each website they want to block is primarily
facilitating wide spread copyright infringement. 81. It is pertinent to mention that this Court in Dr. Shashi Tharoor v.
Arnab Goswami and Anr : 2017 SCC OnLine Del 12049, has held that in
India, the Courts have the power to pass the pre-publication or pre-
broadcasting injunction, provided the two-pronged test of necessity and
proportionality is satisfied. 82. One can easily see the appeal in passing a URL blocking order, which
adequately addresses over-blocking. A URL specific order need not affect
the remainder of the website. However, right-holders claim that approaching
the Court or the ISPs again and again is cumbersome, particularly in the case
of websites promoting rampant piracy. 83. This Court is of the view that to ask the plaintiffs to identify
individual infringing URLs would not be proportionate or practicable as it
would require the plaintiffs to expend considerable effort and cost in
notifying long lists of URLs to ISPs on a daily basis. The position might
have been different if defendants' websites had a substantial proportion of
non-infringing content, but that is not the case. 84. This Court is of the view that while passing a website blocking
injunction order, it would have to also consider whether disabling access to
the online location is in the public interest and a proportionate response in
the circumstances and the impact on any person or class of persons likely to
be affected by the grant of injunction. The Court order must be effective,
proportionate and dissuasive, but must not create barriers to legitimate trade.
The measures must also be fair and not excessively costly (See: Loreal v.
Ebay, [Case C 324/09]). 85. In Cartier International AG vs. British Sky Broadcasting Limited,
[2014]EWHC 3354 (Ch), it has been held by the Hon'ble Mr Justice Arnold
that alternate measures are not effective and not a complete answer to
rampant piracy. The relevant portion of said judgment is reproduced
hereinbelow:- index entire websites on the basis of alleged intellectual
 property infringements without a court order.... 213. The second problem is that, whereas some search engine
 providers like Google.....do not have an equivalent policy
 for URLs which infringe third party trade marks. 214. The third problem is that, even if search engine providers
 de-index the URL or even the entire website, it will
 remain accessible on the internet. In particular, it would
 remain accessible to consumers who had previously
 visited the website and either had it bookmarked or could
 remember its domain name..... 215. Accordingly, I conclude that, as matters stand, this is not
 a realistic alternative measure for Richemont. 216. Customs seizure. A final measure is that of customs
 seizure.....The first is that it only tackles the imports of
 the counterfeit goods themselves. It does not affect the
 Target Websites. The second is that it is impossible for
 customs to inspect anything more than a small fraction of
 the large volume of small parcels..... 217. Conclusion......I am not persuaded that there are
 alternative measures....which would be equally effective,
 but less burdensome.....Nevertheless, I do accept that the
 availability of some of the measures discussed above is a
 factor to be taken into account in assessing the
 proportionality of the orders sought by Richemont.‖
 (emphasis supplied) 86. Consequently, website blocking in the case of rogue websites, like the
defendant-websites, strikes a balance between preserving the benefits of a
free and open Internet and efforts to stop crimes such as digital piracy. 87. This Court is also of the opinion that it has the power to order ISPs
and the DoT as well as MEITY to take measures to stop current CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 90 of 99 infringements as well as if justified by the circumstances prevent future
ones. AT LEAST FORTY-FIVE COUNTRIES HAVE EITHER ADOPTED AND
IMPLEMENTED, OR ARE LEGALLY OBLIGATED TO ADOPT AND
IMPLEMENT, MEASURES TO ENSURE THAT ISPS TAKE STEPS TO
DISABLE ACCESS TO COPYRIGHT INFRINGING WEBSITES. 88. At least forty-five countries have either adopted and implemented, or
are legally obligated to adopt and implement, measures to ensure that ISPs
take steps to disable access to copyright infringing websites. These countries
include the UK, Australia, Singapore, Portugal, France, Germany and India
(Site Blocking in the World, MPA Study on Site Blocking Impact in South Korea, June 2016 ). Around the
world, ISPs receive directions to block websites either from Courts or from
administrative agencies/other competent authorities. The majority of
governments where such relief is available have adopted the judicial
approach, which involves ISPs blocking specific websites pursuant to
criminal and civil Court orders, e.g. most EU Member States (including the
UK), India, Singapore and Australia. A few additional countries like South
Korea, Portugal, Italy, Malaysia and Indonesia have adopted an
administrative approach where government agencies direct ISPs to block
specific piracy services. In both these methods the approach is similar,
whereby right owners establish that the target website provides access to
infringing content. Courts and administrative agencies review the evidence
to ensure that websites engaged in predominantly legal activities are not
blocked. Following such assessment, directions are issued by the Court or
administrative agency to ISPs to block specific infringing websites. 89. This Court is also of the view that it can take a cue from the years of
experience of dozens of governments/ jurisdictions that have successfully
adopted website blocking regimes primarily by directing the ISPs to
permanently block the identified websites. In the United Kingdom, blocking
orders directed at 19 major online infringing sites in October/November
2013 not only led to significant decrease in total piracy, but also led to
significant increase in the usage of legal streaming sites. (Danaher, Brett and Smith,
Michael D. and Telang, Rahul, The Effect of Piracy Website Blocking on Consumer Behaviour (November 2015),

https://ssrn.com/abstract=2612063). 90. In the Asia-Pacific region, research results of South Korea's
administrative site-blocking regime demonstrated the same positive impacts
that the studies conducted in Europe showed. Visits to blocked sites declined
significantly within three months of access being blocked. As website
blocking in South Korea was heavily concentrated on peer-to-peer (P2P)
sites, overall visits to infringing P2P sites (not just those sites blocked)
showed a 51% decline three-months after the three rounds of website
blocking. (Motion Picture Association, MPA Study on Site Blocking Impact in South Korea (2016)

(http://www.mpa-i.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/MPAA_Impact_of_Site_Blocking_in_South_Korea2016.pdf). 91. Most recently, research conducted by INCOPRO released in 2018
demonstrated that site-blocking in Australia had also had a significantly
positive impact upon the usage of blocked infringing sites. Tracking Alexa
data recorded usage reduction of 53.4% of blocked sites, usage of the top-50
infringing sites in Australia decreased by 35.1% since October 2016, usage
of the top-250 infringing sites in Australia decreased by 25.4% from
October 2016 to November 2017.(Incopro, Site Blocking Efficacy-Key Findings-Australia CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 92 of 99 (February 2018) (https://www.creativecontentaustralia.org.au/_literature_ 210629/2018_Research_- _Incopro_Study)). 92. These studies demonstrate that site-blocking in those countries greatly
contributed to: (1) reduction of usage of infringing websites to which access
had been blocked; and (2) reduction of overall usage of infringing websites.
As a consequence, there is every reason to believe that the same results of
website blocking measures would hold true in India. 93. Undoubtedly, website blocking is ‗no silver bullet' in the fight against
digital piracy, but it should at least be one of the lead bullets, alongside other
measures such as partnering with Internet ad companies, domain seizures,
and other efforts to prosecute owners of pirate sites. HOW SHOULD THE COURT DEAL WITH THE ‗HYDRA HEADED'
‗ROGUE WEBSITES WHO ON BEING BLOCKED, ACTUALLY
MULTIPLY AND RESURFACE AS REDIRECT OR MIRROR OR
ALPHANUMERIC WEBSITES ? 94. Now, the question that arises for consideration is how should courts
deal with ‗hydra headed' websites who on being blocked, actually multiply
and resurface as alphanumeric or mirror websites. In the present batch of
matters though this Court had injuncted the main website by way of
the initial injunction order, yet the mirror/alphanumeric/redirect websites
had been created subsequently to circumvent the injunction orders. 95. It is pertinent to mention that in Greek mythology the Hydra also
called Lernaean Hydra is a serpent-like monster. The Hydra is a nine-headed
serpent like snake. It was said that if you cut off one hydra head, two more
would grow back. 96. Critics claim that website blocking is an exercise in futility as website
operators shift sites-the so-called ―whack-a-mole‖ effect. 97. Internationally, there has been some recent development to
deal with the aforesaid menace in the form of a "Dynamic Injunction" 98. The High Court of Singapore in the case of Disney Enterprise v. Ml
Ltd., (2018) SGHC 206 has after discussing the cases of 20th Century Fox v.
British Telecommunications PLC, (2012) 1 All ER 869 and Cartier
International AG v. British Sky Broadcasting (supra), held that the
applicant was not obligated to return to court for an order with respect to
every single IP address of the infringing URLs already determined by the
Court. The Court held as under:- (emphasis supplied) 99. Though the dynamic injunction was issued by the Singapore High
Court under the provisions of Section 193 DDA of the Singapore Copyright
Act, and no similar procedure exists in India, yet in order to meet the ends of
justice and to address the menace of piracy, this Court in exercise of its
inherent power under Section 151 CPC permits the plaintiffs to implead the
mirror/redirect/alphanumeric websites under Order I Rule 10 CPC as these
websites merely provide access to the same websites which are the subject
of the main injunction. 100. It is desirable that the Court is freed from constantly monitoring and
adjudicating the issue of mirror/redirect/alphanumeric websites and also that
the plaintiffs are not burdened with filing fresh suits. However, it is not
disputed that given the wide ramifications of site-wide blocking orders, there
has to be judicial scrutiny of such directions and that ISPs ought not to be
tasked with the role of arbiters, contrary to their strictly passive and neutral
role as intermediaries. 101. Consequently, along with the Order I Rule 10 application for
impleadment, the plaintiffs shall file an affidavit confirming that the newly
impleaded website is a mirror/redirect/alphanumeric website with sufficient
supporting evidence. On being satisfied that the impugned website is indeed
a mirror/redirect/alphanumeric website of injuncted Rogue Website(s) and
merely provides new means of accessing the same primary infringing
website, the Joint Registrar shall issue directions to ISPs to disable access in
India to such mirror/redirect/alphanumeric websites in terms of the orders
passed. 102. It is pertinent to mention that this Court has delegated its power to the
learned Joint Registrar for passing such orders under Section 7 of the Delhi
High Court Act, 1966 read with Chapter II, Rule 3(61) read with Rule 6 of
the Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules 2018. The said provisions are
reproduced hereinbelow:- 6. Delegation of the Registrar's Power - The Chief Justice
 and his companion Judges may assign or delegate to a Joint
 Registrar, Deputy Registrar or to any officer, any functions
 required by these Rules to be exercised by the Registrar. 103. In the event, any person is aggrieved by any order passed by the
Registrar, the remedy for appeal is provided and may be availed of under
Rule 5 of Chapter II of the Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules, 2018
reproduced hereinbelow:- 104. This Court is of the view that since website blocking is a cumbersome
exercise and majority of the viewers / subscribers who access, view and
download infringing content are youngsters who do not have knowledge that
the said content is infringing and / or pirated, it directs the MEITY/DOT to
explore the possibility of framing a policy under which a warning is issued
to the viewers of the infringing content, if technologically feasible in the
form of e-mails, or pop-ups or such other modes cautioning the viewers to
cease viewing/downloading the infringing material. In the event the warning
is not heeded to and the viewers / subscribers continue to view, access or
download the infringing/pirated content, then a fine could be levied on the
viewers/subscribers. 105. This measure, in the opinion of this Court, would go a long way in
curbing the pirated content and the dark-net as well as in promoting the legal
content and accelerating the pace of ‗Digital India'. THIS COURT PLACES ON RECORD ITS APPRECIATION FOR THE
SERVICES RENDERED BY LEARNED AMICUS CURIAE AS WELL AS
LEARNED COUNSEL FOR PLAINTIFFS 106. This Court places on record its appreciation for the services rendered
by Mr. Hemant Singh, learned Amicus Curiae as well as Mr. Saikrishna
Rajagopal and the team of Advocates assisting them. They not only handed
over innumerable notes, charts and articles, but explained with great
patience certain technologies that this Court was not familiar with. RELIEF 107. Keeping in view the aforesaid findings, a decree of permanent
injunction is passed restraining the defendant-websites (as mentioned in the
chart in paragraph no. 4(i) of this judgment) their owners, partners,
proprietors, officers, servants, employees, and all others in capacity of
principal or agent acting for and on their behalf, or anyone claiming through,
by or under it, from, in any manner hosting, streaming, reproducing,
distributing, making available to the public and/or communicating to the
public, or facilitating the same, on their websites, through the internet in any
manner whatsoever, any cinematograph work/content/programme/show in
relation to which plaintiffs have copyright. A decree is also passed directing
the ISPs to block access to the said defendant-websites. DoT and MEITY
are directed to issue a notification calling upon the various internet and
telecom service providers registered under it to block access to the said
defendant-websites. The plaintiffs are permitted to implead the
mirror/redirect/alphanumeric websites under Order I Rule 10 CPC in the
event they merely provide new means of accessing the same primary CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 98 of 99 infringing websites that have been injuncted. The plaintiffs are also held
entitled to actual costs of litigation. The costs shall amongst others include
the lawyer's fees as well as the amount spent on Court-fees. The plaintiffs
are given liberty to file on record the exact cost incurred by them in
adjudication of the present suits. Registry is directed to prepare decree
sheets accordingly. MANMOHAN, J
APRIL 10, 2019
js/rn/sd/sp CS (COMM) 724/2017 & Ors. Page 99 of 99