This petition has been filed by the petitioner under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India, seeking the following reliefs:- 2 ] The grievance of the petitioner is that the petitioner's account at

 Punjab & Sind Bank has been freezed at the instance of respondent No.2,
 Gujarat Cyber Cell, as has been informed to the petitioner by the Bank. The
 account of the petitioner has been freeezed can also be demonstrated by the
 letter dated 19.09.2024 issued by the Bank, informing the petitioner that his
 account has been freezed. 3 ] Counsel for the petitioner has submitted that according to the Signature Not Verified Signed by: BAHAR CHAWLA Signing time: 3/17/2025 6:05:40 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:7030

 2 WP-8522-2025
 information received, there is some transaction by the petitioner with one
 Sohail Khan, which, according to the respondent No.2 is of dubious nature,
 which has led to freezing of the petitioner's bank account. 4] Counsel has also drawn the attention of this Court to an order passed
 in an identical case, in the case of Gautam Bhandari and Others Vs. State
 Bank of India and Others passed in W.P. No.30822/2024 dated 25.10.2024
 wherein also, this Court had granted a relief to the petitioner that the amount
 which is disputed may be kept in a fixed deposit by the bank, with further
 direction that the competent Judicial Magistrate shall proceed in accordance
 with law under Section 102 of Cr.P.C.. Thus, it is submitted that the
 petitioner also agrees that the amount relating to questionable transaction

 may be kept in a fixed deposit, and the petitioner may be allowed to operate
 his account. 5 ] Heard. On due consideration of submissions and on perusal of the
 documents filed on record, this Court finds the prayer reasonable and
 innocuous, as no prejudice would be caused either to the Bank or to the
 respondent No.2, if the disputed amount is kept in fixed deposit, as has been
 ordered by this Court in the case of Gautam Bhandari (Supra). Thus
 maintaining the parity, this Court is inclined to allow the present petition as
 well. 6 ] So far as the order passed by this Court in the case of Gautam
 Bhandari (Supra) is concerned, the same reads as under:- (Emphasis Supplied) 6. On due consideration of the reliefs sought by the petitioners, as also
 the aforesaid order, this Court is inclined to dispose of this petition with a
 direction to the respondents/Bank to keep the disputed amount as informed
 to them by various cyber crime agencies, in fixed deposits, which shall be Signature Not Verified Signed by: BAHAR CHAWLA Signing time: 3/17/2025 6:05:40 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:7030

 4 WP-8522-2025
 allowed to be liquidated only after the orders are passed by the competent
 Judicial Magistrate within three months' time as it is expected from the
 cybercrime police to proceed in accordance with law under Section 102 of
 Cr.P.C., or any other law on which they are relying upon, failing which the
 amount so kept in FDs may also be allowed to be withdrawn by the
 petitioners under intimation to the cybercrime agencies. 7. With the aforesaid direction, the petition stands disposed of. 7] Accordingly, the present petition stands allowed with a direction to the
 respondent No.1/Bank to keep the disputed amount as informed to them by
 cybercrime agency (the respondent no.2), in a fixed deposit, which shall be
 allowed to be liquidated only after the order is passed by the competent
 Judicial Magistrate within three months' time as it is expected from the
 Cybercrime Police to proceed in accordance with law under Section 102 of
 Cr.P.C., or any other law on which they are relying upon, failing which the
 amount so kept in FDs may also be allowed to be withdrawn by the
 petitioner under intimation to the Cybercrime agency. 8] With the aforesaid, the petition stands allowed and disposed of. (SUBODH ABHYANKAR)
 JUDGE
 Bahar Signature Not Verified Signed by: BAHAR CHAWLA Signing time: 3/17/2025 6:05:40 PM