1. BAIL APPLN. 2831/2021 has been filed for grant of regular bail in
FIR No. 39/2021 dated 07.02.2021 registered at Police Station Civil Lines
for offences under Section 420 IPC. 2. BAIL APPLN. 2753/2021 has been filed for grant of regular bail in
FIR No. 39/2021 dated 07.02.2021 registered at Police Station Civil Lines
for offences under Section 420 IPC. 3. BAIL APPLN. 3877/2021 has been filed for grant of regular bail in
FIR No. 39/2021 dated 07.02.2021 registered at Police Station Civil Lines
for offences under Section 420 IPC. 4. The facts in brief leading to the instant petitions are as follows:- 5. After preliminary enquiries, one Kapil Kumar Rajoria, a student of
12th Standard stated that he made friends with petitioner Manvendra Singh,
who allegedly lured him with a sum Rs.1,000/- if he owned a bank account
and operated a phone number under a fictitious name and address. It is
stated that Kapil Kumar Rajoria opened a bank account accordingly and the
ATM card cheque book was with Manvendra Singh. i. It is stated that Kapil Kumar Rajoria was arrested from
 Anandpuri, Mathura, U.P. and was remanded to Police custody
 for two days. The involvement of other accused was revealed to
 the Police. ii. Based on revelations, Petitioner/Sajid was interrogated, he
 stated that he is a taxi driver and had made friends with
 Petitioner/Waris, who allegedly enticed him to open a fake bank
 account with a sum Rs.2,000/- if he owned a bank account and
 operated a phone number under a fictitious name and address.
 Accordingly, Sajid opened numerous bank accounts with
 HDFC bank, ICICI bank, IDBI bank, IPO Bank, Fincare Small
 Finance Bank. Sajid further allegedly disclosed that before BAIL APPLN. 2831/2021etc. Page 3 of 9 depositing money in the abovementioned accounts, Waris
 would call him and inform him. On checking the statements of
 these bank accounts, it was noticed that on 07.02.2021 a
 payment of Rs.20,000/- was deposited by Waris into Sajid's
 Indian Post Payments Bank account. Petitioner/Sajid was
 arrested on 11.02.2021. iii. Further joint enquiries by the Cyber Cell and the Police, got
 them in contact with the Petitioner/Manvendra Singh, who
 stated that he was preparing for a government job and had made
 friends with Petitioner/Waris who allegedly lured him to
 commit online frauds and told him that online bank accounts
 with fictitious addresses had already been opened and the stage
 was set to dupe people without any detection. Petitioner/Waris
 allegedly told him that he would be paid Rs.5,000/- per
 transaction for each account. Petitioner/Manvendra Singh was
 arrested on 11.02.2021. iv. After this, on 13.02.2021, the three accused persons, namely,
 Kapil Kumar Rajoria, Sajid, and Manvendra Singh were
 produced before the learned Magistrate, who remanded them to
 14 days' judicial custody. v. During the custodial interrogation of the accused/Waris, he
 allegedly disclosed that he was working as a private school
 teacher and during this time he was introduced to
 accused/Moveen, R/o Village-Bheelamka, Tehsil-Deeg,
 Bharatpur, Rajasthan; who lured him to commit online frauds
 and asked him to open bank accounts under false identities and BAIL APPLN. 2831/2021etc. Page 4 of 9 addresses. He allegedly disclosed that he worked him for about
 six months and used to get a 20 per cent profit of the defrauded
 amounts. Petitioner/Moveen arrested on 16.02.2021.
 vi. During investigation, details of the bank accounts which were
 being operated by the accused/petitioners herein were extracted
 and the notices under Section 91 CrPC were issued to bank
 officials to furnish statements of these fictitious accounts.
 vii. The mobile numbers used by the accused/petitioners were
 inquired into and cellular companies were contacted to submit
 the Call Detail Records of the petitioners. The CDRs reveal that
 the petitioners were in continuous communication with each
 other. 6. Investigation has been completed and Chargesheet was filed on
15.03.2021. In the chargesheet, Section 467 , 468 , 471 , 201 , 34 IPC and Section 66D of the Information & Technology Act, 2000 were added. 7. The bail applications of the petitioners, Sajid and Manvendra were
dismissed vide a common order dated 05.07.2021 passed by the learned
Trial Court stating that the petitioners were accused of embezzlement and
used clever devices to cheat many innocent persons on the internet, the
transactions of which were still being investigated by the Cyber Cell/IT
Department and this was the first time that they were caught. 8. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material on
record. Mr.Nikunj Verma, learned counsel for the petitioners, Waris and
Manvendra. Mr. Mohd. Rais Farooqui, learned for the petitioner, Sajid.
Mr.Amit Chadha, learned APP for the State and Mr.Vikas Pahwa, learned
Senior Advocate appeared for the complainant. 9. Learned counsels for the petitioners contended that the chargesheet
and the supplementary chargesheet both stand filed. The petitioners have
been in custody for 10 months, they contend that the nature of evidence
against the petitioner is documentary in nature which would not require the
custodial presence of the petitioner. It is contended that this is the offence
has been committed first time by the petitioners and they do not have any
criminal antecedents. They submit that the petitioners are although are adults
but are in the prime of their youths and have a good future ahead, being
incarcerated as undertrials would deprive them of being gainfully employed.
It was submitted that there is no substantial evidence against the petitioners
apart from the disclosure statements of each other. It was lastly submitted
that there are over 15 witnesses who are slated to be examined in the trial
and given the ongoing pandemic situation the trial may not commence any
time soon. Therefore, the petitioners should be released on bail. 10. Per contra, Mr. Amit Chadha, learned APP vehemently opposes the
bail applications of the petitioners stating that the acts of which the accused
have been charged with was executed in a very organized way. He submits
that the petitioners created bank accounts giving false details in order to not
get caught and purchased SIM cards in fictitious names which were used to
defraud and cheat gullible people who sold and purchased goods from the
internet. It is further submitted by him that that SIM cards were obtained by
petitioners by giving fake IDs and further the charge of forgery was also
made out against them. He submitted that the charge of forgery prescribe a
punishment of 10 years extending upto life imprisonment, and, therefore,
bail ought not to granted to the petitioners at this stage. 11. Mr. Amit Chadha, learned APP submitted that the Call Detail Records
showed that the petitioners were in touch with each other frequently and that
there were many bank transactions amongst the petitioners that were
observed during investigation. He fairly conceded that the petitioners did not
have any criminal antecedents but contended that these persons had not just
defrauded the present complainant but many other persons and the same was
being investigated into by the authorities. He submitted that if the petitioners
are released on bail, they are likely to tamper with evidence and will
abscond from the trial. He states that on seeing the bank statements, so far
the petitioners have cheated people of a total sum of Rs.7,00,000/-. 12. Mr. Vikas Pahwa, learned Senior Advocate appeared on behalf of the
complainant adopted the submissions made by the learned APP. He
additionally submitted that this type of an online fraud has become
widespread in the North of India whereby many innocent people have been
cheated. He submitted that this Court should not exercise its discretion in
granting bail to the accused as it would send a deterrent message to other
persons engaging in similar activities. Mr. Pahwa expressed a concern that
since the petitioners are residing at different places, there is a likelihood of
their fleeing from justice. 13. Heard. 14. The parameters to considered for grant of bail as has been consistently
enunciated by the Apex Court in Ram Govind Upadhyay v. Sudarshan Singh
& Ors. , 2002 ( 3) SCC 598 and Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v. Ashis Chatterjee &
Anr. 2010 (14) SCC 496 are as follows:- 15. The Chargesheet has been filed. The supplementary Chargesheet has
also been filed. The petitioners have been in judicial custody for 10 months.
This Court is aware that this kind of online cheating and fraud has become
rampant in most parts of the country. However, this Court cannot remiss in
performing its duty, that is to uphold liberty subject to other relevant
considerations. Since the investigation has been completed and the
chargesheet has been filed before the learned Trial Court and taking into
account the evidence are primarily documentary in nature, this Court,
therefore, is of the opinion that no useful purpose will be served by further
keeping the petitioners in custody. Therefore, this Court is inclined to grant
regular bail to the petitioners on the following conditions:- 16. The petitions are disposed of with the above observations along with
the pending application(s), if any. SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J
DECEMBER 13, 2021
hsk BAIL APPLN. 2831/2021etc. Page 9 of 9