JUDGMENT

2000 Supp(3) SCR 542

The Judgment of the Court was delivered by M. JAGANNADHA RAO, J. Leave
granted. The appellant Federal Bank at Bombay was the 3rd defendant in the suit and
has a branch at Pune. It has preferred this appeal against the order of the
High Court dated 8.10.99 summarily dismissing the appellant's appeal AFO
No. 818 of 1999. The appeal was preferred against the order of the trial
Court dated 29,4.99 whereby the trial Court had confirmed an ex-pane
interim injunction dated 20,5,98 granted by it earlier, rejecting the
appellant's application to vacate the same. The matter relates to a Letter
of Credit issued by the 2nd defendant, Bank of Maharashtra, Pune (3rd
respondent) at the instance of the plaintiff-buyers ( 1st respondent), M/s.
V.M. Jog Engineering Co., Pune. The sellers are M/s. Jaswant Steel, Nagpur
(1st defendant) (1st respondent). The appellant Federal bank was the
negotiating Bank (3rd defendant) while the 3rd respondent, Bank of
Maharashtra was the Issuing Bank. The main point arising in the case can be stated briefly as follows : The Letter of Credit issued by the Issuing Bank on 19.2,98 listed out the
various "documents" which had to be produced by the sellers for payment
under the Letter of Credit opened by the buyer with the Issuing Bank: These
were described as follows : Thereafter, it is stated in the L/C in clause 10 "Last date of Negotiation
of documents 20.4.1998 but not later than 20 days from despatches-(This
clause was later deleted on 19.3.98 when the appellant was nominated as
Negotiating Bank in place of the State Bank of India). The Special
Instructions in the L/C for the Negotiating Bank were as follows : 5, .............................. 6. Total drawings under this credit should not exceed Rs. 2,00,00,000
(Rupees two crores only)

It was lastly stated in the L/C as follows : On the same day, 19.3,98 seller sent a Bill of Exchange (called technically
as a Draft) to its dealer at Visakhapatnam against the Letter of Credit No.
1/98 dated 19.2.98 stating as fellows :. Sd

Vice-President (Accounts) for V.M. Jog Engineering Co: (Buyer)

and

"We confirm having received the despatch documents",

Sd

Vice-President (Accounts) for V.M. Jog Engineering Co. (Buyer)

It will be noticed that ninety days from 19.2.98 would be 26.5,1999. That
would be the date on which the Negotiating Bank could claim from the
Issuing Bank, the monies if any, it might have paid to the seller. But if is the contention of the buyer-plaintiff that the first despatch of
the goods was on 28.3.98 and that payment would be due to the Negotiating
Sank only on 26.6.98, The appellant Bank on the other hand contended mat
Once the Vice President of the buyer company confirmed the despatch
document dated 19.2.98, ninety days would expire by 20.5.98 and the
appellant Bank, in case it paid to the sellers under the Bill of Exchange
issued by the sellers, me appellant should be repaid on 20.5.98 and not on
26.6,98,

On 20.3.98, the sellers wrote to the appellant Bank (through their dealers
at Visakhapatnam, Shriram Investment Services Ltd.) to discount the Bill of
Exchange for Rs. 2 crores and pay the proceeds. The till along with other
"documents" so sent by or on behalf of th6 sellers were received by the
appellant Bank. The above letter of the sellers to the appellant Bank reads
as follows: In other words, the sellers demanded payment on the Bill of Exchange
against the L/C by producing these documents before the Negotiating Bank.
The Negotiating Bank Was to pay the amount minus its commission. I could
draw the released amount from the Issuing Bank on the 90 day from 19.2.98
the date of despatch document i.e. 20.5,98. The appellant-Negotiating Bank men took the extra precaution of sending to
the Issuing Bank - the L/C and the "documents" sent by the sellers for
confirmation. This is stated to be part of the Banking practice. The letter dated 20,3.98 by the appellant (Negotiating Bank) to the Issuing
Bank stated that they were enclosing the original Letter of Credit for 2
crores, Usance 90 days, due date 20.5.98 (they were counting 90 days from
19.2.98) and that they were enclosing the "documents" sent to them by
sellers along with L/C: L/C: Above L/C in original is enclosed. Please return the same with the
signatures duly verified and certified," 3, Verify and certify the signatures on the LC and confirm that the
signatories on the LC have the required authority to issue the same. 4, Confirm that the documents are in order and payment will be made on due
date. Reimbursement: We have already stated that the Bi11 of Exchange (or draft) was also sent
by the sellers to the Negotiating Bank, through their dealer. This Bill was
one of the documents thus received by the Negotiating Bank. It contained
the two endorsements purported to have been made by or behalf of the buyers
(to which we have already made reference) and purporting to be signed by
the Vice-President (Accounts) of the buyers. These endorsements read as
follows

"Accepted for the payment on maturity. Sd\- Vice-President (Accounts) for V.M.- Jog Engineering Ltd, (buyers)

We confirm having received the despatch documents. .Sd\- Vice-President (Accounts) for V,M. Jog Engineering Ltd." (buyers)

As far as proof of delivery of the despatched goods is concerned, the
position was as follows. Among the documents accompanying the L/C were the
five invoices dated 19.2,98 (5 sheets) and the five delivery challans dated
19.2.98 (5 sheets). The five delivery challaos contained the signature of
one Mr, P. Waghmode who purported to sign on behalf of the buyers and two
of the five delivery challans purportedly contained the counter-signature
of the Vice-President (Accounts) of the buyer dated 21,2,98 and 28.2,98
respectively. The office stamp of the buyer's company was found on all the
five delivery challan. The endorsement of Mr. Waghmode on the delivery
challans also stated that goods were received in good condition. the Issuing Bank, after receiving the documents, wrote back to me
Negotiating Bank in its crucial letter on 23.3.98 as follows : "Re: Our inland L/C No. 1/98 dated 192,98

For Rs. 2,00,00,000 fvg. Jaswant Steel Rolling Pvt. Ltd. We have received the above said L/C in original along with your covering
letter. We have confirmed the due date on 20.5,98 and the documents are in
order and payment of the above mentioned L/C 1/98 will be made on 20.5.98. We have verified and certified the signatures on the L/C and confirm that
the signatories to the L/C have the required authority to issue the same. We returned herewith the above mentioned L/C 1/98." In other words, the Issuing Bank certified the signatures and assured the
Negotiating Bank, that it would reimburse the Negotiating Bank on the due
date, 20.5.98. Obviously, the Issuing Bank proceeded on the basis that the
delivery was on 19:2.98 as stated in the document (and not on 28,3.98, as
contended by the buyers in the plaint),

On the basis of the above letter dated 23,3-98 sent by the Issuing Bank to
the Negotiating Bank, the latter discounted the Bill of Exchange drawn from
the seller and paid Rs 1,94,39,252 under the L/C on 25,3.98 to the sellers. On 24.3,98 the Negotiating Bank wrote to the Issuing Bank that the latter
had returned the L/C, along with confirmation and also the documents. It
said that the Negotiating Bank shall be delivering the documents again to
the Issuing Bank on due date and that "the same is returned herewith which
you may kindly acknowledge". 'Encl : as above'. (A contention was raised by
the Issuing Bank in its affidavits in the trial Court that by this letter,
the Negotiating Bank was agreeing to send some other documents and they
were hot sent later at the time of seeking reimbursement on 20.5.98). The Negotiating Bank, haying parted with Rs. 1,94,39,252 upon confirmation
of the genuineness of the documents by the Issuing Bank, was waiting to
claim reimbursement by the Issuing Bank on me 'due dateV2G.5,98. But then, there was a sudden surprise. It received a letter from the
Issuing Bank on I9;5.1:998 that the Issuing Bank had found on "scrutiny in
May 1998", that the Negotiating Bank had not submitted (1) "Delivery
challan-cum-invoices issued by sellers duly signed by project authorities
with an endorsement that the material is received in good condition and
indicating that the date of receipt of material at sites as per clause No.
10 of our L/C (2) All relevant motor transport receipts as per clause No; 3
of our LC. They stated that after receipt of the above documents as per
terms of L/C, they would be able to consider further." This has obvious
referred to clause 9 of the L/C extracted above. On 20.5.98, there was a further letter by the Issuing Bank to the
Negotiating Bank that (1) As per special instructions for the Negotiating
Bank, "clause No. 3 of our L/C, full set of original documents along with a
certificate of compliance of the terms and conditions of credit is not
received by us". "Original L/C, duly discharged has not been received by
us. You are requested to send the above documents". According to the
appellant, by the letter the issuing Bank was going back on its earlier
certification and assurance to reimburse the appellant as per its letter
dated 233:98 addressed to the Negotiating Bank. Meanwhile, the Issuing Bank had alerted the buyers on 15.5.98 that the
Negotiating Bank had produced certain documents purportedly dated 19.2.98
containing an endorsement that the material was received in good condition
as per order. The buyers stated in their plaint that it was only then that
they learnt that the "sellers" had committed 'forgery' by showing that one
'Mr. P, Waghmode' had made the said fraudulent endorsements on the demand
vouchers on behalf of the buyers. They contended that there was nobody by
the name Mr. P. Waghmode in their service much Jess with necessary
authorisation, to act or receive the goods on behalf of the buyers. They
stated that on 17.5.98, Mr. Bhapkar, Project Manager of the buyers visited
the factory of me sellers and found that only 654 MT of steel was shown in
the sellers' accounts as having been supplied and not die full quantity. A
further contention was that, in fact, only 523 MT was supplied and not 654
MT; On 18.5.98, the buyers informed the Issuing Bank tot forgeries had been
committed by "some persons" in the documents presented to the Issuing Bank.
,

The buyer was conscious that on 20.5.98, the Negotiating Bank would press
for payment from the issuing Bank. The buyer then filed the suit against
the sellers (1st defendant), the Issuing Bank (2nd defendant) and the
Negotiating Bank (3rd defendant) for permanent injunction. No specific
relief was claimed against the Negotiating Bank but it was prayed that the
Issuing Bank should not release any amount under the L/C. In the entire
body of the plaint there is no allegation imputing any fraud to the
Negotiating Bank, much less even knowledge of fraud. Allegation of fraud
and forgery were made only against the sellers, in the interlocutory
application, though injunction was prayed against the Issuing Bank, the
Negotiating Bank was not brought into the array. Injunction was obtained on
20.5.98 by the buyers against the Issuing Bank not to honour the L/C. The
said Bank then wrote on 20:5,98 to the Negotiating Bank that In view of the
Court's order, they would not be able to release any amount in favour of
the Negotiating Bank, after the due date ie. 20.5.98. It was only then that the Negotiating Bank came to know that though it had
been impleaded is the suit as the 3rd defendant, it had not been impleaded
in the application for injunction. It moved the Court for vacation of the
order stating that they had sent the L/C and documents including the
delivery challans dated 19.2.78 to the Issuing Bank for due checking and
that the Issuing Bank in their crucial letter dated 23.3.98 had certified
the genuineness of the endorsements on. the L/C and the signatures on the
documents, Further, the Bill of Exchange drawn by the sellers against the
'L/C contained the signature of the Vice-president of the buyers (we have
already extracted the endorsement) and the delivery, challans were signed
by Mr. P. Waghmode, with the endorsement "received material in good
condition" and two of these endorsements were counter signed by Vice
President of the buyer with his stamp and that once the Issuing Bank had
certified the above documents presented by the sellers to the Negotiating
Bank, the Negotiating Bank could not but pay the sellers and they had paid
Rs. 1,94,39,252 to the sellers on 25.3.98. The Negotiating Bank pointed out
that no allegations of fraud or forgery were made against it nor even
knowledge thereof attributed to it. On these facts, the trial Court refused to vacate the injunction in its
Order dated 29,4.99. This order was confirmed by the High Court; The
Negotiating Bank has come up in appeal by Special leave. In this appeal, we have heard the submissions of learned counsel for the
appellant Sri S, Ganesh and of the learned Senior counsel for the buyers
Sri V,A. Mohta and of Sri Rajesh Kumar, for the Bank of Maharashtra. Learned counsel for the appellant :Sri S. Ganesh contended that the
plaintiff-buyers had deliberately not impteaded the appellant in the
injunction application and they obtained injunction in collusion with the
Issuing Bank. They could not have stated in the trial Court that the
Negotiating Bank need hot be heard. Learned counsel pointed out that no
allegation of fraud was made in the plaint nor in the injunction
application against the Negotiating Bank and the allegations were made only
on the sellers for allegedly committing forgery of documents. Learned
counsel pointed out that not even knowledge of fraud or forgery was
attributed to the appellant. The appellant had obtained, by way of caution,
the confirmation from the Issuing Bank as per Banking Practice in regard to
the genuineness of the endorsements on the Bill of Exchange and L/C and on
the documents (including the delivery chailans) produced by the sellers and
that the Issuing Bank had confirmed the genuineness of the same and had, in
fact, promised to reimburse the Negotiating Bank on the due date i.e.
20.5.98 i.e. 90th day after the date of delivery 19.2:98). The Bill of
Exchange was also signed by the Vice President of the buyer and necessary
endorsement was made. Counsel also referred us to Articles Of the Uniform
Customs arid Practice for Documentary Credits (1983 Revision) which stood
incorporated in the Letter Of Credit dated 19.2.98 (and in particular Article 16(b) and (e) and pointed out that even in cases where Issuing Bank
did not refuse to certify the documents in reasonable time, me Article
states that the Issuing Bank "shall, be precluded from claiming that the
documents are not in accordance with the terms and conditions Of the
credit" Here, on facts, there is an express acceptance of the genuineness
of the documents and this is an afortiori case. The Banks are governed by a
separate contract and were not concerned with disputes as to non-
performance - Or non-delivery of goods- by the seller to the buyer. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the Issuing Bank, Sri Rajesh
Kumar contended before us (and in their written submissions) that it was
true that on 23.3.98 the Issuing Bank had certified to the Negotiating Bank
that the documents were in order. "But when in May, 1988, the Negotiating
Bank claimed to be reimbursed, the Issuing Bank scrutinised and it was
revealed that the documents were not in order". It also contended (hat the
primary duty to verify the documents was that of the Negotiating Bank and
that the confirmation obtained from the Issuing Bank of no value. Sri V.A. Mohta, learned senior counsel for the buyers-plaintiff wanted to
contend that the injunction obtained by the plaintiff had to be maintained.
Learned counsel was confronted with his client's stand in the trial Court
that the Negotiating Bank had no concern with the injunction. Learned
senior counsel was told in view of the peculiar stand taken by his client
in the trial Court, in case this Court declared that the injunction would
not come in the way of the Negotiating Bank getting reimbursed by the
issuing Bank, his clients could not have any objection to it. Counsel,
however, submitted that, in that event, the Issuing Bank should not debit
the buyer for the amount the said Bank would reimburse to the Negotiating
Bank. Counsel was informed mat that question does not arise in this appeal. The following points arise for consideration in this appeial : Point 1

This point mainly deals with the UCP Code (1983 Revision) which was
incorporated by reference into the L/C. As the interpretation of the UCP is
commercially of considerable importance, we would like to deal with the
relevance of the UCP Code in Some detail. This Court had occasion in United Commercial Bank v. Bank of India , 13981]
2 SCC 766 (at 780} to refer to the Uniform Customs and Practices for
Documentary Credits (UCP for short) by which the 'General provisions and
Definitions arid the Articles following are to apply to all documentary
credit and binding upon all parties thereto unless otherwise expressly
agreed'. The UCP states that it shall be deemed incorporated into each
documentary credit if there are words in the Credit indicating that such
credit was issued subject to Uniform Customs and Practices of Documentary
Credits. The UCP has been formulated by the international Chamber of Commerce, Prof.
R.M. Goode described it as the 'most successful harmonising measure in the
history of international commerce'. Prof, E.P. Ellinger stated that the UCP
was the result of necessity and the need for use of banks as; agents in
international trade. The first UCP was drafted in 1929, the next one in
1933, then in 1951, 1962 and 1974 and 1983. The 1983 version (relevant in
the case before us) was used in 170 countries, (It was revised in 1990 and
1993), (The New York version of if revised in 1993). (See Principles of
International Trade Law by Indira Carr, 2nd Ed, 1999). In the absence of incorporation, the UCP will not apply but it can be taken
into account as part of mercantile customs and practices and most of if is
also treated as part of common law, barring a few differences. If an
express term in the contract contradicts the UCP terms, the contract
prevails, Mustill, J. in Royal Bank of Scotland plc. v. Cassa di Ris
parimio delie Provincie Lombard, (1993) (Financial Times 21 Jan, 1992) said
: i "......it must be recognised that (the UCP) terms do not constitute a

statutory code. As the title marks blear, they constitute a formulation of
customs and practices, which the parties to a letter of Credit can
incorporated into their contracts by reference. If it is found that the
parties have explicitly agreed such a term, then the search need go no
further, since any contrary provision in UCP must yield to the parties'
expressed intention." We are here concerned with the I Uniform Commercial Practice of Documentary
Credits (1983) (which is referred to in the L/C). It states in Article 3: " credits, by their nature are separate transactions
from the sales or other contracts (&) on which they may be based and banks
are in no way concerned with or bound by such contracts), even if any
refuse whatsoever to such contracts(s) is included in the credit. Article 4 states mat: 'in credit operations, all parties concerned deal in documents,
and not in goods, services and/or other performances to which the documents
may relate". This is also declared by this Court in several cases. Article 1.0 refers to the duty of the Bank to honour the commitment. It
states; "An irretrievable credit constitutes a definite undertaking of the
Issuing Bank, provided that the stipulated documents are presented and mat
the terms and conditions of the credit are complied with: (i) if the credit
provides for sight payment - to pay, or mat payment will be made (ii) if
the credit provides for deferred payment - to pay or that payment will be
made on the date(s) determinable in accordance with the stipulations of the
creditor (iii) if the credit provides for acceptance - to accept drafts
drawn by the beneficiaries if the credit stipulates that they are to he
drawn on the Issuing Bank, or to be responsible for mat acceptance and
payment at maturity if the credit stipulates that they are to be drawn on
the applicant for the credit or any other drawee stipulated in the credit; (iv) if the credit provides for negotiation - to pay without recourse to
drawer and/or bona fide, holders, drafts drawn by the beneficiary, at sight
or at a tenor, on the applicant for the credit or on any other drawee
stipulated in the credit other than the Issuing Bank itself, or to provide
for negotiation by another bank and to pay as above, if such negotiation is
not affected (b)......(c).........(d)....,...''. Article 11 (a) stipulates

that 'All credits must clearly indicate whether they are available by sight
payment, by deferred payment, by acceptance or by negotiation......Clause (b)

states that: 'All credits must nominate the bank (nominated bank) which is
authorised to pay (paying bank), or to accept drafts (accepting bank), or
to negotiate (negotiating bank) unless the predit allows negotiation by any
bank (negotiating bank). (e)....Clause (d) of Article 11 is relevant and it
reads ; It is, therefore, clear that under Article 11 (d) , it is sufficient if the
negotiating bank is satisfied that the documents which appear on their face
to be in accordance with the terms and conditions of the credit. If the
Negotiating Bank then pays, the Issuing Bank is bound to reimburse the
Negotiating Bank,

We have to refer to another important Article, i.e. Article 15 , which
concerns the 'reasonable care' with which documents have to be examined.
This Article has relevance on the question of' 'fraud'. It refers to the
safeguards to be taken by the Bank, It states : Once the Bank takes such reasonable care as above stated, Article 16 states
that the Bank will have to be reimbursed by the party giving such
authority. Clause (b) of Article 16 states that refusal by the Issuing Bank
to pay must be "on the documents alone" as appear on their face to be
inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the credit. At common law, the position is no different. The principle of reasonable
care has been applied by Lord Dipiock in Gian Singh & Co, Ltd. v. Banqae
deL' lndochine, (1974) 1 WLR 1234, The Bank has to examine with reasonable
Care to ascertain if they appear on their face to be in accordance with the
terms arid letters Of Credit. In that case, the reference was made to Article 7 of the UCP (1962). It was observed that the said Article did no
more than restate the duty of the bank at common law. It was further held
that in the ordinary course, visual inspection of the actual documents
presented is all that is called for, (p, 1252). In Basse and Selve v.Bank
of Australia, (1904) 20 TLR431 = 90 L.T. 618, the defendant bank was
instructed to negotiate the drafts of a shipper in Sydney against a
Certificate of Dr. Hehns for 100 tons of Cobalt ore analysis not less than
5% pretoxide. The shipper shipped worthless ore which was described in the
bill of loading as 'P.M. 2680 bags containing 100 tons of Cobalt ore". The
sample initially submitted did not refer to the bill of lading goods. But
later, the shipper marked the sample in the same way as the goods were
described in the Bill of lading quantity and obtained a second, certificate
showing [satisfactory tests of "a sample of Cobalt ore marked P.M. 2680
bags representing 100 tons". The Bank this time accepted the shipper's
drafts and was held to be entitled to recover from the plaintiffs. The
Certificate on its face was regular and came within the meaning of the
mandate. Bigham, J. said: All that is therefore necessary is to examine with reasonable if the
documents on their face conformed to the terms and conditions of the L/C.

One other important Article that is important OH the question of
'reasonable care' of the Bank in examining the documents is Article 17. It
reads : Two judgments as to whether the Issuing Bank can consult its customer
appear to be conflicting. In Bankers Trust Co. v. State Bank of India,
(1991) Lloyds Rep, 443, it was held that the Banker's Trust was barred from
refusing the documents because it had taken unreasonable time to examine
and reject them, some nine days. By that time the State Bank of India had
paid to the Steel Authority of India. There were no doubt, 967 sheets to be
verified. But it was held that the time taken to consult the customer could
not be excluded. A different view was expressed earlier in Co-operative
Central etc- v, Sumitomu Bank Ltd. The Roy an, (1987) 1 Lloyds Rep. 345 (on
appeal, see (1988)2 Lloyds Rep. 250), However, Article 14(c) of the UCP
(1993 Revision) appears to accept the view in the Bankers' Trust case for
it says that if the Sank "approaches the applicant for waiver of
discrepancy" that shall not extend the seven days time set in Article 13(b) of the UCP (1993 Revision),

In deciding whether the time taken is reasonable or not, English Courts
used to take into account banking practice. The Bank in England, normally
used to take three days. (Banker's Trust Ltd v. State Bank of India, (1991)
2 Lloyd. 443). Clause (d) of Article 16 of the 1983 Revision states that, if the issuing
bank decides to refuse, it must give notice to the bank from which it
received the documents or to the beneficiary, if it directly received from
him. Such notice must state the discrepancies in respect of which the
Issuing Bank refuses the documents and must also state whether it is
holding the documents at the disposal of or is returning them to, the
presentator (remitting bank or the beneficiary, as the case may be). Sub-
clause (e) reads : all the details of the contract and Which was patently not a reprographic
or carbon copy of another document could constitute an original for
purposes of the UCP 1993 Revision'. We are only referring to the view of
the English Court as a mark of interest. That question does not, however,
arise in this case. As to the source from which the documents emanate. Article 23 states "that-
where documents (other than transport documents, insurance documents and
commercial invoices called for) are called for, the credit should stipulate
by whom such documents are to be issued and their wording or debtor
content, If the credit does not so stipulate, banks will accept such
documents as presented, provided that their debtor content makes it
possible to relate the goods and/or servicing referred to therein to those
referred to in the commercial invoice(s) presented, or to those referred to
in the credit if the credit does not stipulate presentation of a commercial
invoice." With regard to expiry date and presentation, Articles 46 to 48 deal With
the principles applicable. Before parting with Point 1, we may add that the UCP (1983 revision) or
even the 1993 Revision did not refer to fraud as an exception. That is why
Indira Carr says in 'international Trade Law, 2nd Ed, 1999 at p. 266-267
that the UCP is not comprehensive as it does not address itself to the
effect of fraud or illegality in the documentary credit arrangement. We may
here add that the Uniform Civil Code (USA) in clause (2 of Articles 5-114
specifically refers to forgery and fraud. This US Code was noticed by
Jagannath Shetty, J, in UP Co-operative Federation Ltd v, Singh Consultant
& Engineers Pvt. ltd, [1988] 1 SCC 174 (at p. 48). Points 2 and 3 : The foundation of English law in this area is the American case of Sztejn
v. j. Heney Schroder Banking Corpn., (1941) 31 NYS 2d, 631, (Extensive
details of this case are available in 'Documentary Credits' by Raymond
Jack, 1991 pp. 191-192); This case has been cited in more than one judgment
of this Court and the English Courts but we shall give more facts of that
case and the principle Of 'holder in due course' laid down therein which
arises in the case before us, as per the appellant's pleadings. In that
case, the applicant for a credit (i.e. the buyer) claimed injunction
against the Issuing Bank Schroder Banking Corporation to prevent it paying
on the documents which had been presented. The credit had been advised to
the seller in, India by the Issuing Bank's correspondent in India, the
Chartered Bank of India, Australia and China, The correspondent had not
confirmed the credit The applicant alleged that what had been shipped was
rubbish rather than the bristles contracted to be supplied. The Chartered
Batik (the Collecting Bank) which received the documents from the seller
for 'collection', applied for dismissing the buyer's claim. (This was a
proceeding similar to Order 7 Rule 11 CPC )for an injunction on the ground
that there was no cause of action. The buyer's, in their application for
injunction, informed the Issuing Bank about the fraud of the sellers. For
the purpose of hearing tot application of the Collecting Bank, the Court
assumed the facts stated in the application of the buyer as to fraud to be
true. (Otherwise, this was a difficult burden of proof normally). Shientag,
J. held that: The facts, as stated above, were that the sellers had drawn the draft under
the letter of Credit to the order of the Chartered Bank of India, Australia
and China and delivered the draft and the fraudulent documents to the said
Chartered Bank's branch at Kanpur for 'collection' on account of the
sellers. The Chartered Bank could not compel the issuing Bank, Schroder
Banking Corporation, to pay by seeking a dismissal of the buyer's
application by way of a demurrer. The plaintiff was entitled to injunction
for it had brought the allegation to the knowledge of the Issuing Bank,
before the payment was made. Shientag, J. further observed: The Court also noticed that, on facts, the Collecting Bank, Chartered Bank
was not a holder in due course but was a mere agent for collection for the
account of the seller who was charged by the buyer with fraud. Therefore
the Chartered Bank's motion to dismiss the complaint (similar to Order 7
Rule 11 CPC ) must be denied. Shientage, J. referred to the principle of
'holder in due course' and said as follows: 'This passage lays down the law as to when a person becomes a holder in due
course in the case of a fraud by the sellers. This last paragraph from the
judgment of Shientag, J. is directly applicable to the facts of the case. Applying the said principle, we may state that if the appellant Federal
Bank was merely a collecting bank or agent which had approached the Bank of
Maharashtra (the issuing Bank) and if the Issuing Bank was sought to be
restrained by the buyer before payment was made by the Issuing Bank to the
Collecting Bank, the collecting Bank could not have compelled the Issuing
Bank to release the money for collection if the buyer informed the Issuing
Bank in his plaint that the documents to be presented to it by the
Collecting Bank were forged or fraudulent. But where, on the other hand,
the Negotiating Bank, i.e. the Federal Bank (appellant), has said on the
basis of a clearance given by the Issuing Bank as to genuineness of
documents, and seeks reimbursement, then the Negotiating Bank is in the
position of a holder in due course and can claim that the suit of the buyer
must fail if it sought to restrain the Issuing Bank.from reimbursing the
Negotiating Bank- These principles prima facie flow from Shientag, J's
judgment which has been followed both in England and by this Court, in
several cases. Legal relation of a Negotiating Bank vis--vis the Issuing Bank: A.G. Davis in his 'The Law Relating to Commercial Letters of Credit' (2nd
Ed.) (1954) (p. 92 et see) deals with the rights of a negotiating Bank.
These rights are partly based on the law relating to negotiable instruments
and partly on the law applicable strictly to letters of credit. So far as
the rights of the negotiating Banker against the seller are concerned, his
position will be that as in the case of a 'bill of exchange' as against the
drawer. The author deals with its rights against the seller as a holder in
due course unless the seller drew the bill 'sans recourse'. He also deals
with the risks of the Negotiation Bank in cases of revocable credits. But
so far as irrevocable credits are concerned, he says that the terms of the
credit have to be looked into. Some terms indeed contain an undertaking by
the Issuing Bank with the seller and purchasers for value of drafts on
credits, to honour those drafts if, of course, the terms of the credit are
complied with. He says : Roche, J. in Westminister Bank Ltd. v, Banca Nazionale di Credito, (1928)
32; LL Rep, 306 at 312 said : The issuing Bank as principal may ratify the acts of its agent, the
correspondent bank which is its agent and by doing so, relieve the
correspondent bank of a liability it would otherwise have. One ruling referred to by the learned counsel Sri S. Ganesh for the
appellant is directly in point In Virgo Steels v. Bank of Rajasthan , AIR
(1998) Bom, 82. In that case the UCO Bank issued a letter of Credit at
request of Virgo Steel in favour of Western Mini-steel Ltd. It provided
that documents under the credit could be negotiated through any Bank. The
drawer drew the Bill of Exchange which was negotiated by the Bank of
Rajasthan, On receipt of the said drafts, the Bank of Rajasthan wrote to
the UGO Bank, sending the documents for its confirmation, The UCO Bank
confirmed the signature of the partner as per their records and said that
they could release payment directly to the Bank of Rajasthan. Subsequently,
the UCO Bank found that Virgo Steels, in connivance with some officials of
the Branch, got the L/Cs opened much in excess of the limit authorised by
UCO Bade The UCO Bank disowned liability to pay the Bank of Rajasthan on
due date, M.B. Shah, J. (as he then was) speaking for the Bench, rejected
the plea of UCO Bank and found it liable to the Bank of Rajasthan. It was
held : The Court relied upon a circular of the Reserve Bank of India dated
1.4.1992. UCO Bank was held bound by its own confirmation of the documents.
We are in respectful agreement with the judgment. In view of the above reasons, this appeal is to be allowed. Summarising, we hold that when the plaintiff buyer has no case that the
appellant-Negotiating Bank had any knowledge of fraud, and when it took
precaution in getting clearance for the document from the issuing Bank on
203.98 and such clearance was given on 23.3.98 by me latter, it was not
open to the Issuing Bank to contend that on fresh scrutiny in May, 1998, it
found that the documents were not in conformity with the letters of Credit
or that the buyer had so informed them. Prima facie, the appellant was in
the position of a holder in due course. Points 2 and 3 are decided in
favour of me appellant

For me aforesaid reasons, we allow me appeal and vacate me temporary
injunction granted in favour of the plaintiff against the Bank of
Maharashtra in so far as the said injunction precluded the Bank of
Maharashtra from reimbursing the appellant-Federal Bank: It Is clarified
that me said injunction will not come in the way of the Bank of Maharashtra
from complying with its obligation to reimburse the Federal Bank. The
Appeal is allowed. No costs. Before parting with the case, we may state that we are now living in ap era
of advanced technology of e-mail and internet. It is possible that in the
near future we must take greater pare and impose less rigorous standards of
proof of fraud for otherwise plaintiffs might find it impossible to make
out a serious liable issue or prima facie case. Indira Carr says that
documentary fraud is on the increase and more so, due to electronic data
transfers. She says there is a case for a fresh reassessment of the narrow
exception of fraud (Principles of International Trade Law, 2nd Ed,, 199 p. 298).