In these two petitions filed under Section 482 of

Code of Criminal Procedure, petitioners have sought for

quashing the entire proceedings in the private

complaint filed by respondent No.2 in P.C.R.

No.10868/2012 and the F.I.R. registered by Cyber

Crime Police Station, Bangalore, in Crime No.14/2012,

pursuant to the order of reference made by the I

Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Bangalore and

all further proceedings therein. 2. Petitioners 1 to 3 in Criminal Petition

No.4417/2012 have been arraigned as accused Nos.1 to

3 and petitioner Nos.4 to 7 therein, have been arraigned

as accused Nos.10 to 13, while petitioner Nos.1 to 6 in

Criminal Petition No.4077/2012 have been arraigned as

accused Nos.4 to 9 in the Private Complaint. The

respondent No.2 herein M/s. Bloomberg Developers

Private Limited, filed private complaint against these

petitioners alleging various offences punishable under Sections 65 , 66 , 66-C and 85 of the Information

Technology Act (for short I.T. Act ), Sections 120-B , 378 , 411 and 511 of the Indian Penal Code. In said

complaint it was inter alia alleged that the complainant

is a Company, incorporated under the provisions of Companies Act ; that the complainant - Company

develops housing projects, residential townships,

hospitals, hotels and various other commercial projects

in major cities and business centers in India and in

addition, the complainant is expanding its activities on

global scale in other areas such as Infrastructure, Hotel :7: Industry, Airways, Entertainment, Power and Steel,

Logistics and Ports , Hospitality, Cements, Oil and Gas,

Green Ventures etc.; that the complainant owns a trade

mark "Bloomberg" in India and it has filed a trade mark

application for obtaining registration of the mark

"Bloomberg" under various Classes in Indian Trade

Marks Office; that all those applications are pending for

registration before the Trade Marks Offices in Mumbai

and Chennai; that the complainant has adopted trade

mark "Bloomberg" under the various business activities

in India and it has incorporated 20 subsidiary

Companies for handling its day today business

activities; that the complainant - Company has created

an email account " [email protected] " and

" [email protected] " and these email

accounts are exclusively used by the Chief Managing

Director and management team of the Company to

communicate with Vendors, Customers and Bankers

etc.; that the complainant's use of trade mark

"Bloomberg" in India has been challenged by accused :8: No.1 before the Indian Trade Marks Offices in Mumbai

and Chennai and the said proceedings are contested by

the complainant, as such they are pending for

adjudication; that in the said proceeding, accused No.1

is represented by accused Nos.2 and 10 to 13; that

accused No.1 has also challenged the domain name

registration obtained by the complainant before the

National Arbitration Forum in U.S.A. under the Uniform

Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy adopted by

Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers;

that on 13.04.2012, the complainant received copies of

the complaint and annexures filed by accused No.1

before the National Arbitration Forum in the Domain

Dispute matter and on verification of the complaint and

annexures attached thereto, the complainant were

shocked to notice that few documents of complainant -

Company which are confidential in nature were also

submitted to the Forum along with other documents by

accused No.1; that those informations of the

complainant presented by the accused No.1 are :9: confidential in nature and not available in public

domain to any persons and on further verification of

documents and details, the complainant discovered that

the two emails had been forwarded from the

complainants' email accounts to the email account of

accused No.2, who were the Legal Advisors of accused

No.1 in India and to those two emails, several

attachments were also forwarded to accused No.2; that

accused No.2 in turn had forwarded those emails to

accused No.1 so that the said documents, materials and

contents can be used as part of the annexures in

domain dispute complaint filed against the complainant

before the National Arbitration Forum; that immediately

the complainant tried to log in to their email account

" [email protected] " and found that the log in

and password of the said email account have been

changed; that the complainant also noticed a

notification on the screen that the password for the said

email account was changed about three months ago;

that since the password of the complainant's said email : 10 : account had been changed, the complainant could not

access to its email account for any purpose and later

when the complainant tried to log in to the said email

account just before filing the complaint, it was noticed

that the said email account has been deleted, that the

complainant believes that some persons at the behest of

accused Nos.1 and 2 have illegally hacked the email

account of the complainant and have gained

unauthorised access to the data and informations of the

complainant - Company; that the information so stolen

by hacking the email account are confidential

informations containing documents relating to

complainant's financial details, business plan on further

expansion in India, copies of communications

exchanged by the complainant with the bankers relating

to overseas fund transfers, communications exchanged

by the complainant with its Vendors and business

associates relating to Company's business transactions

and activities etc.; that those informations are not

available in public domain to any person, as it would be : 11 : detrimental to complainant's business if those

informations are available in public domain; that the

accused persons have not only obtained access to these

confidential information but have also presented the

same before the National Arbitration Forum in U.S.A. as

part of their annexures in the ongoing Domain Dispute

case; that during the last week of May 2012, accused

No.1 approached the Indian Domain Registry namely

"IN Domain Name Dispute Registry", National Internet

Exchange of India and initiated Arbitration proceedings

against the complainant's domain name registration of

"bloombergrealty.in" and during the first week of June

2012, the complainant received the copies of the

complaint and annexures attached thereto before the

Arbitrator and once again the complainant was shocked

to note that the aforesaid hacked emails dated

06.02.2012 along with attachments were referred to in

the said complaint also; that thus from the above, it is

evident that accused Nos.1 and 2 have illegally used the

hacked emails and stolen informations as part of the : 12 : pleadings before the Arbitrator Indian Domain Name

Dispute Registry and have also relied on the hacked

emails and stolen contents to showcase the

complainant's other business activities using the

"bloomberg" including financial business plan and other

information, which is not available in public domain;

that in addition to the above proceedings, the accused

No.1 has also used the aforesaid hacked emails and its

contents dated 06.02.2012 in filing the application

under Section 22 of the Companies Act, before the

Office of the Regional Director, Ministry of Corporate

Affairs, Government of India, Mumbai for seeking

rectification of name of complainant's - Company,

namely 'Bloomberg Realty (India) Private Limited'; that

in these proceedings the accused No.1 have made false

allegation that the complainant themselves have sent

the said emails to the Office of the accused No.2 in

response to the Cease and Desist legal notice issued on

behalf of accused No.1 earlier; that accused Nos.1 and 2

had received and used the stolen property obtained : 13 : through hacking of email account of the complainant

and thus, accused Nos.1 and 2 had unauthorized

access to the complainant's email account and also to

confidential informations to which they were not privy to

and that accused No.2 along with accused Nos.10 to 13

have colluded in collating the confidential informations

of the complainant - Company and making use of the

same before the National Arbitration Forum in Domain

Dispute matter in USA, Arbitration before the Indian

Domain Name Registry, Office of the Regional Director,

Ministry of Corporate Affairs, thereby have committed

offences punishable under Sections 120-B , 378 , 411 and 511 of the Indian Penal Code and also Sections 65 , 66 and 66-C of the I.T. Act; that the illegal hacking of

the email account of the complainant, stealing of

information and the data of the informations relating to

the complainant, tampering the log in details and

password details of the email account of the

complainant and destroying the email account of the

complainant has taken place with full consent or : 14 : connivance of accused Nos.3 to 13, as such, the

accused are guilty of offence punishable under Section

85 of the Information Technology Act. Therefore, the

complainant prayed for taking cognizance of the offence

and issue process or in the alternative to refer the

complaint to Cyber Crime Police for investigation. 3. On presentation of the complaint, the

learned Magistrate referred the complaint under Section

156(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure to the Cyber

Crime Police for investigation and report. Upon such

reference, the 1st respondent Police registered the case

in Crime No.14/2012 for the offences punishable under Sections 66 and 66(b) of the I.T. Act, 2000 and took up

investigation. On coming to know of the same, the

petitioners - accused have presented these petitions

seeking to quash the complaint as well as F.I.R.

registered, pursuant to the reference made and all

further proceedings therein, inter alia on the ground

that they are innocent of the commission of the offence

alleged; that even if the entire case of the prosecution is : 15 : accepted to be true, it does not make out the essential

ingredients of the offences alleged; that prima facie

there are no nexus between them and the alleged

offences; that the continuation of criminal proceedings

is not warranted as it would be the abuse of process of

law; that the complaint is filed as a counter blast to the

various proceedings initiated by accused No.1 before

different Forums and to coerce accused No.1 to

withdraw all those proceedings and also to wreak

vengeance against the petitioners; that the entire

dispute is civil in nature and there is no element of

criminality in any of the alleged acts, as such initiation

of the criminal proceedings is actuated with malafides,

as such it is liable to be quashed; that accused No.1

being a Company incorporated under the provision of Companies Act is a juridical person and such juridical

person is made as accused without being represented

by any human agency in an accusation of having

committed physical offence of hacking, theft or

otherwise; that the complaint does not disclose as to : 16 : how the petitioners are responsible or that the offences

are committed with their consent or connivance; that

the allegation made in the complaint does not make out

a case of mens-rea on the part of these petitioners, as

such, the complaint is not sustainable in law; that the

allegations made in the complaint does not indicate

relationship of accused Nos.10 to 13 in relation to

accused No.1 and vague allegations that they are in-

charge and responsible for the business and conduct of

the accused No.1 does not make them responsible for

the offences alleged to have been committed by accused

No.1 in terms of Section 85 of the I.T. Act; that the two

emails referred to in the complaint were sent by the

complainant themselves to accused No.2 by way of reply

to the notice dated 20.01.2012 issued by the accused

No.1, therefore, complainant having so voluntarily sent

the emails, cannot be permitted to make allegations of

hacking into its email accounts and making such

allegations would prima facie make out fraudulent

intention on the part of the complainant, that the : 17 : dispute between the accused No.1 and the complainant

is purely civil in nature and the complainant by twisting

the facts and manipulating the events as an after

thought is trying to make out a false case of commission

of the offence under the I.T. Act and the Indian Penal

Code only to harass the petitioners; that the complaint

as well as the further proceedings thereon suffer from

lack of jurisdiction, as such, the learned Magistrate

ought not to have entertained the complaint. 4. This Court while entertaining these petitions

and ordering issue of notice to the complainant -

respondent No.2, stayed the investigation, by Cyber

Crime Police. Upon service of notice of these two

petitions, the respondent No.2 - complainant appeared

through its counsel and filed a detailed statement of

objections, reiterating the averments made in the

complaint lodged before the learned Magistrate. Along

with statement of objections, copies of several

documents were also produced. 5. I have heard Shri K.G.Raghavan, learned

senior counsel and Shri H.S.Chandramouli, learned

counsel appearing for the petitioners in these petitions

and Shri Ravi B. Naik, learned senior counsel for

respondent - complainant. Apart from reiterating the

grounds urged in these petitions both the counsel

appearing for petitioners contended that the allegations

made in the complaint, even if are accepted at its face

value does not make out any offence alleged in the

complaint or the offences for which respondent No.1 -

Police have registered the case and that even from the

allegations made in the complaint, it is manifestly clear

that several proceedings initiated by the accused No.1

are pending before different Forums both in India and in

U.S.A., in respect of several illegalities committed by the

complainant - Company and therefore, the complaint

has been presented only with a view to coerce the

petitioners to come to its terms, as such, the complaint

is actuated with malafides and to wreak vengeance

against the petitioners, therefore, the order of reference : 19 : by the learned Magistrate and consequent registration

of the F.I.R. by the Police is an abuse of process of law

and is liable to be quashed. They also contended that

the dispute between the accused No.1 and the

complainant is purely civil in nature and such civil

dispute is sought to be converted into a criminal offence

by twisting the facts, therefore, this Court in exercise of

the inherent power saved under Section 482 of the Code

of Criminal Procedure is required to quash the

complaint and also the F.I.R. to prevent abuse of

process of law. In addition, the learned senior counsel

further contended that in the complaint, accused No.1 -

Company is not represented by any human agency and

in the complaint, there is no allegation as to how

accused Nos.3 to 13 are answerable for the alleged

offences said to have been committed by the accused

No.1, as such, the complaint as against accused Nos.3

to 13 is not maintainable. In this regard, learned senior

counsel sought to rely on the two decisions of the Apex

Court ( S.M.S. Pharmaceuticals Ltd., v. Neeta Bhalla , AIR : 20 : 2005 SC 3512 and N.K.Wahi vs. Shekhar Singh ,

AIR 2007 SC 1454), rendered while considering the

provisions of Section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments

Act, which according to the learned senior counsel is

similar to Section 85 of the I.T. Act. 6. Learned senior counsel also sought to place

reliance on the following decisions of the Apex Court

regarding the exercise of the inherent power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure by the

High Court to quash the complaint or the FIR. 7. He also placed reliance on the decision of

this Court in V.G. Sreeram vs. Smt. Indumati B.

Chandachal and Others , 2007 Crl.L.J. 3089, to support

the contention that since the allegation regarding : 21 : cheating is bereft of details of specific role assigned to

each of the Directors, it is a case for quashing. 8. Learned senior counsel also placed reliance

on the decision of the Supreme Court in Joseph

Salvaraja vs. State of Gujarat , (2011) 7 SCC 59, to

support his contention that purely civil dispute is

sought to be given colour of criminal offence wreak

vengeance is a circumstance warranting quashing of the

complaint and FIR by the High Court in exercise of the

inherent power under Section 482 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure to prevent abuse of process of the

Court. 9. On the other hand, the learned senior

counsel appearing for the respondent No.2 -

complainant apart from reiterating the contents of the

complaint filed before the jurisdictional Magistrate,

contended that the allegations made in the complaint

read as a whole, make out prima facie case against the

petitioners for the offences for which the respondent : 22 : No.1 - Police have now registered the case and that even

though certain proceedings initiated by accused No.1

against the complainant - Company are pending before

different Forums both in Indian and U.S.A., the offences

complained of are not related to the civil dispute but

they relate to the illegal activities done at the behest of

the petitioners in hacking the email account of the

complainant and stealing the data and documents and

then making use of them before the different forums

constitutes an offence which require to be investigated.

He further contended, the very fact that the accused

No.1 in the various proceedings initiated by it against

the complainant - Company has made use of the

confidential informations relating to the complainant

which was not in public domain would indicate that it

was only at the behest of the petitioners who were the

functionaries of accused No.1, email account of the

complainant was hacked and the informations have

been stolen. He further contended that since accused

No.1 is the beneficiary of the informations so stolen by : 23 : hacking into the email account of the complainant,

prima facie it has to be presumed that it was at the

behest of the accused No.1 and its functionaries, such

hacking has been done, as such, the allegations made

in the complaint prima facie make out the offences

punishable under the I.T. Act , which warrants

investigation to find out as to who hacked into the email

account of the complainant and at whose instance such

hacking was done. He further contended that the plea

raised by the petitioners that the complainant

themselves sent the email to accused No.2 along with

attachments by way of reply to the legal notice sent are

in the nature of defence plea and on such defence pleas,

the High Court in exercise of the inherent power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot

quash the complaint and the F.I.R., as, such defence

pleas will have to be substantiated at the trial. He

further contended that this plea raised on behalf of the

petitioner has all more made it necessary to investigate

as to who and from where such email was sent to email : 24 : account of accused No.2. He further contended that

having regard to the above controversy, the

Investigation Officer should be allowed to investigate

and find out the truth and in this regard, the petitioners

should not feel shy since the investigation into this

matter would unearth the truth, and for that purpose,

the investigation is very much necessary. 10. The learned senior counsel placed reliance

on the decision of the Supreme Court in Rajiv Modi vs.

Sanjay Jain , ( 2009) 13 SCC 241 and Iridium India

Telecom Limited vs. Motorola Incorporated and

Others , (2011) 1 SCC 74. 11. I have bestowed my anxious considerations

to the submissions made on both sides. The point that

arise for my consideration in these petitions is "whether

the complaint lodged by respondent No.2 and the F.I.R.

registered by respondent No.1 on the reference made by

the Jurisdictional Magistrate and the proceedings

thereon are liable to be quashed by this Court in : 25 : exercise of inherent power under Section 482 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure." 12. The law as to the circumstance under which

the High Court in exercise of the inherent power saved

under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

could quash the complaint and F.I.R. is now very much

crystallized. In State of Haryana and Others vs. Ch.

Bhajan Lal and Others , AIR 1992 SC 604, the Apex

Court has set out the categories of cases in which the

High Court may exercise the power under article 226 of

the constitution of India under Section 482 of the Code

of Criminal Procedure and interfere in proceedings

relating to cognizable offence to prevent abuse of

process of any Court or otherwise to secure the ends of

justice. In this decision, the Apex Court has given a

note of caution that power should be exercised sparingly

that too in rarest of rare cases. The categories of cases

set out in the said decision which are relevant for our

purpose are as under: - 13. It is further ruled in this decision where

allegations in the complaint did constitute a cognizable

offence justifying registration of a case and investigation

thereon and did not fall in any of the categories of cases

enumerated therein calling for exercise of extraordinary

power or inherent powers, quashing of F.I.R. is not

justified. The aforesaid principles have been reiterated

from time and again by the Apex Court in several

decisions. Keeping in mind the aforesaid principles, let

me consider the case on hand. 14. As noticed supra, though in the complaint,

the complainant has alleged several offences punishable : 28 : under the Indian Penal Code in addition to the offences

punishable under I.T. Act , as could be seen from the

F.I.R., respondent No.1 Cyber Crime Police have

registered the F.I.R. only for the offences punishable

under Sections 66 and 66(b) of the IT Act. This is

obviously because the main grievance made out by the

complainant is that its email account has been hacked

by someone at the behest of these petitioners and they

have stolen the confidential informations and datas

available therein which have been used in other

proceedings initiated by accused No.1. Thus, from the

perusal of the F.I.R., it is clear that the investigation

commenced by the 1st respondent is only in relation to

the offence under the I.T. Act . However, if during

investigation commission of any other offence which are

punishable either under the Indian Penal Code or under

any other law is revealed, the Investigation Officer may

include such offence. However, whole case revolves on

the allegation of hacking into the email account of the : 29 : complainant and stealing of the confidential

informations. 15. No doubt, in the complaint, the complainant

has alleged that it believes some person at the behest of

accused Nos.1 and 2 have illegally hacked its email

account and have gained unauthorised access to data

and the informations of the complainant - Company

and have stolen all such informations. As noticed

supra, it is the contention raised on behalf of petitioners

that the said email was sent by the complainant -

Company itself by way of reply to the legal notice to

accused No.2. The fact that the two emails referred to

in the complaint originating from the email account of

the complainant - Company having been received by

accused No.2 through his email account is not in

serious dispute. Therefore, it has to be found out by a

proper investigation as to who and from where sent the

emails. This can be found out only by a proper

investigation by a specialised agency. Having regard to

the nature of the acts alleged, it cannot be possible for : 30 : the complainant to make definite and specific

allegations against anyone. However, the fact that those

informations received by accused No.2 have been used

by accused No.1 in various proceedings initiated by it

against the complainant is not also seriously disputed.

It is not the case of the petitioners that those

informations were in public domain. Having regard to

the fact that those informations relating to the

complainant's Company which according to the

complainant are confidential in nature, have been made

use of by accused No.1 - Company in various

proceedings initiated by it against the complainant -

Company, the complainant has alleged that it believes

that it was only at the behest of accused Nos.1 and its

functionaries someone has hacked into the email

account and have stolen the informations. 16. It is in this background, the argument of the

learned senior counsel regarding vicarious liability on

the part of the functionaries in the Company requires to

be considered. 17. No doubt, the Apex Court in various

decisions while interpreting the scope of Section 141 of

the Negotiable Instruments Act has held that it is

necessary for the complainant in such complaints to

specifically plead as to how the functionaries of the

Company are vicarious liable for the acts of the

company. In Datar Switchgear Limited case, referred to

supra relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the

petitioners, the Apex Court has held that there should

be specific averments in the complaint demonstrating

the role of the Chairman of Company when the offence

alleged was by a Company. In this decision, it has been

held that presumption cannot be drawn that a

Chairman of a Company is responsible for all acts

committed by or on behalf of Company. It is further

held that wherever, by a legal fiction principles of

vicarious liability is attracted, it has to be specifically

provided in the statute concerned and it is incumbent

on the complainant to specifically aver the role of each

of the accused in the complaint. Section 85 of the I.T. : 32 : Act, no doubt, is similar to the provisions of section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. However, having

regard to the nature of the acts alleged and since the

complainant by itself cannot ascertain as to who hacked

into its email account and stolen the informations and

since the belief of the complainant that such hacking

has been done at the behest of the accused persons is

based on the fact that such informations have been

referred to and used by accused No.1 in the various

proceedings initiated by it against the complainant and

since the fact as to who hacked into the email account.

If there was a hacking, and whether to such hacking

was done at the behest of these petitioners are matters

for investigation by specialized agency, the analogy

drawn on the principles laid down in the aforesaid

decisions cannot be applied to the case on hand.

Having regard to the peculiar situation and since the

complainant by itself cannot ascertain as to who hacked

into the email account, the complainant cannot be

expected to plead specific role of each of the petitioners. : 33 : Having regard to the fact that there undisputably those

informations have been used by accused No.1 in various

proceedings initiated by accused no.1 against the

complainant, want of averments regarding the specific

role of each of the petitioners cannot be a circumstance

to quash the complaint and the F.I.R. No doubt,

present complaint came to be filed after the complainant

received notices in the various proceedings initiated

against it by accused No.1. However, on that ground, it

cannot be said that the complaint filed was with a

malafide intention of either coercing the petitioners or to

wreak vengeance. According to the complainant, he

came to know about the access to its email account by

someone only after receiving the notices of the

proceedings initiated by accused No.1 before various

Forums. Therefore, pendency of the proceedings

initiated by accused No.1 against the complainant do

not constitute a ground for quashing the compliant and

the F.I.R. Having regard to the allegations made in the

complaint, it cannot be said that the offences alleged are : 34 : civil in nature, nor it can be said that the allegations

made in the complaint read as a whole do not constitute

any offence. As already noticed supra, the fact that

accused No.2 received the email from the email account

of the complainant is not in dispute. The fact that those

informations have been used in various proceedings

initiated by the accused No.1 against the complainant is

also admitted. No doubt, the petitioners contended that

these two emails were sent by the complainant

themselves. However, on the basis of such statement

this Court cannot quash the complaint or the F.I.R. in

exercise of the inherent power saved under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is a disputed

fact. No doubt, in Anita Malhotra vs. Apparel Export

Promotion Council and Another , (2012) 1 SCC 520,

the Apex Court has held that though it is not proper for

the High Court to consider the defence of the accused or

conduct a roving enquiry in respect of merits of the

accusation, but if on the face of the document, which is

beyond suspicion or doubt, placed on record by the : 35 : accused and if it is considered, the accusation against

her cannot stand, in such a matter, in order to prevent

injustice or abuse of process, it is incumbent on the

High Court to look into those document/documents

which have a bearing on the matter, even at the initial

stage and grant relief to the person concerned by

exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure. However, in the case on hand,

since the contention of the petitioners that the emails

were sent by the complainant themselves is a disputed

fact and not borne out by any document beyond

suspicion or doubt, the aforesaid decision has no

application to the case on hand. Therefore, it cannot be

said that no case is made out against the petitioners. 18. With regard to contention raised on behalf of

the petitioners regarding absence of plea to indicate

'mes-rea' and on that basis claiming immunity, it is

necessary to note the observation of the Apex Court in

Iridium India Telecom Ltd., referred to supra. The

relevant observations found in para 55 read as under: - : 36 : 19. Having regard to the facts and

circumstances of the case and the discussions made

above, I am of the considered opinion that the

allegations made in the compliant, read as a whole

constituted cognizable offence justifying registration of

the case and investigation thereon for the offence under

the I.T. Act for which the 1st respondent has now

registered the case and since the case does not fall

under any of the categories enumerated in Bhajan Lal's : 37 : case referred to supra, I am of the considered opinion

that it is not a fit case for exercise of the inherent power

of this Court saved under Section 482 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure to quash the prosecution. In this view of the matter, I find no merit in these

petitions. Accordingly, the petitions are rejected. Sd/- JUDGE

Rsh