These Writ Petitions have been filed with a common

 prayer to quash Notification No.1964/Ex dated 23.03.2013 (hereinafter

 referred to as "Excise Policy") and subsequent order No.2158/Ex. dated

 05.04.2013 (for short, "Order") issued by the Government of Odisha in

 Excise Department prescribing the procedure to be followed in

 conducting "e-auction" to settle the IMFL OFF Shops and Country Liquor 5 Shops for the excise year 2013-14 on the ground that such Excise Policy

and order are without jurisdiction, contrary to the provisions of Bihar

and Orissa Excise Act, 1915 (in short 'the Act") and the Orissa Excise

Rules, 1965 (in short "the Rules"), arbitrary, irrational, discriminatory,

mala fide and unworkable. 2. Since the grounds of challenge in all the writ petitions are

almost similar, for the purpose of convenience, all those grounds of

challenge are dealt in this judgment. 3. The petitioners challenge the impugned Excise Policy and order

on several grounds, i.e., that settlement of IMFL OFF shops and CS

shops through 'e-auction' for the excise year, 2013-14 is a clear case of

discrimination; 'e-auction' process is beyond the scope of Section 29(2) of

the Act since Section 29(2) does not empower the State authorities for

settlement of privilege and grant of licence through e-auction,

determination of consideration money through 'e-auction' without

amending Section 29 to that effect is illegal; in the event of

implementation of 'e-auction' process there will be monopoly of big

traders in selling their own products as a result of which numerous

small traders will be deprived of their livelihood in remote areas, 'e-

auction' process cannot be implemented properly due to illiteracy, lack of

skill, interrupted power supply and inter-net connection; the stringent

condition imposed in the impugned order will deprive the new comers

and will encourage big business houses which is contrary to the

instruction 100 of the Boards Instructions; in case of entertaining

outside State solvency certificate, it will be impossible for the State to 6 collect arrear excise revenue from the defaulting licensees; by

implementing e-auction process there is no chance of generation of more

revenue; in exercise of power under Section 89(2) (1) of the Act

Government has not made any Rule regulating procedure to be followed

and prescribing the manner to be ascertained before issuing any licence

for the whole year for retail vend or any intoxicant is granted for any

locality; grant or renewal of licence for exclusive privilege without

complying paragraph 40 of the policy which provides that the provisions

of Section 22 and 26-A of the Act will be complied with in relation to

public notice and approval of the Grama Panchayat respectively is illegal.

Thus, it is contended by the petitioners that the Excise Policy and the

Order suffers from gross infirmity, arbitrariness, unreasonableness,

discrimination and the same has the tendency of overriding various

provisions of the Act and Rules made thereunder. 4. Per contra, opposite party-State has filed counter affidavit in

W.P.(C) No.8084 of 2013 taking various stands opposing the contentions

taken by the petitioners. Mr.Ashok Mohanty, learned Advocate General

submitted that the State adopts the counter filed in W.P.(C) No.8084 of

2013 in all the writ petitions. The preliminary objection raised by learned

Advocate General is that the writ petitions are not maintainable either in

law or in fact. Some writ petitioners are existing licensees, who are

granted licences during the excise year to year beginning from 1 st of April

and ending on 31st of March and as such renewal or otherwise of the

existing licence is the prerogative of the Government. There is no vested

right with the petitioners, either statutory or fundamental, to continue 7 with the existing licence and to challenge the procedure or modalities

prescribed by the authority under the Act. The petitioners therefore, have

no locus standi to maintain the writ petitions and hence, the same are

liable to be dismissed. 5. The Excise Policy was formulated for the year 2013-14 and the

same has been duly approved by the Cabinet in the matter of dealing in

intoxicants. Exercising the power conferred under Section 29(2) of the

Act the State Government in its wisdom after analysing various factors

has decided to hold 'e' auction to settle the exclusive privilege as it is

likely to fetch more competitive bids in comparison to straight renewal.

The order made under empowerment of statute does not require

legislative sanction. Section 29(2) of the Act specifically provides for

settlement of exclusive privilege under Section 22(1) of the Act. 'E-

auction' is nothing but a mode of auction and therefore to say that 'e-

auction' itself is beyond the purview of the statute is a misnomer. 6. The modalities prescribed under the order dated 05.04.2013 is

neither arbitrary nor unreasonable; rather all care has been taken to

make it transparent and to allow all intending bidders a reasonable

opportunity to participate in the 'e-auction'. 7. The Government intended to give enough time to the intending

bidders to get themselves equipped for participating in 'e-auction'

process and familiarize themselves with the modalities for which the

Government decided to grant extension of two months, i.e., from 1st

April to end of May, 2013 with a hike of 20% over the monthly

consideration money of the previous year which is legal and reasonable. 8 8. The out-still liquor shop has never been similarly placed with

the CS shops or IMFL OFF shops and is treated in a different footing. Out

still system is prevalent mostly in the tribal districts and has been

treated on a different footing as the vending of the out still liquor also

includes the manufacture of out still liquor whereas in respect of C.S.

shops or IMFL OFF shops as the case may be, the liquor is supplied by

the State Beverage Corporation. 9. Referring to the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of State of Bihar and others v. Nirmal Kumar Gupta , (2013) 2 SCC

565, learned Advocate General submitted that in view of the injurious

effect of excessive consumption of liquor on health this trade or business

must be treated as a class by itself and it cannot be treated on the same

basis as the other trades while considering Article 14. Placing reliance on

the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Bajaj

Hindustan Limited. V. Sir Shadilal Enterprises Limited, (2011) 1 SCC 640,

learned A.G. submitted that even if some persons are at a disadvantage

and suffered losses on account of formulation and implementation of the

Government Policy that is not by itself a sufficient ground for

interference by the Court. 10. Referring to the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of Balco Employees' Union V. Union of India and others , (2002) 2

SCC 333, it is emphatically argued that the wisdom and advisability of

economic policies of Government are not amenable to judicial review. It

is not for the Courts to consider the relative merits of different economic 9 policies. Court is not the forum for resolving the conflicting clauses

regarding the wisdom or advisability of policy. 11. Placing reliance on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in the case of State of Orissa and others v. Harinarayan Jaiswal and

others , in (1972) 2 SCC 36, it is submitted that power given to the

Government by the Act to sell the exclusive privilege in such other

manner as it thinks fit is a very wide power. That power is unrestricted.

It undoubtedly includes the power to sell the privileges in question by

private negotiation. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Kuldeep

Singh v. Government of NCT of Delhi , (2006) 5 SCC 702, held that the

matter relating to grant of licence for dealing in liquor is within the

exclusive domain of the State. 12. Mr. Mohanty, learned Advocate General further submitted that

'e-auction' is covered by the word "auction". Alternatively, it is argued

that e-auction is covered under the expression "other wise" appearing in Section 29(2) . All ingredients of auction being present in 'e-auction', the

same is "auction". Sales of Goods Act has no application to 'e-auction'. Sales of Goods Act is applicable to tangible goods. 13. On the rival contentions of the parties, the following questions

fall for consideration of this Court: (i) Whether the writ petitions challenging the
 Excise Policy dated 23.03.2013 and notification
 dated 05.04.2013 are maintainable? (ii) Whether the Excise Policy dated 23.03.2013 and
 order dated 05.04.2013 are arbitrary, irrational,
 discriminatory, mala fide and not workable? (iii) What order? 14. Question No.(i) is with regard to maintainability of the writ

petitions. Mr. Ashok Mohanty, learned Advocate General appearing for

the State Government raised the preliminary objection with regard to

maintainability of the writ petitions on the ground that the policy

decisions of the Government are not amenable to judicial review. It is not

for the Courts to consider the relative merits of different economic

policies. In support of his contention, learned Advocate General relied

upon the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the cases of Balco

Employee's Union (supra), Bajaj Hindustan Ltd.'s case (supra). Learned

Advocate General also placing reliance on a case of this Court in

Dr.Sashi Bhusan Acharya & Ors. Vs. State of Orissa and others, 105

(2008) CLT 169 submitted that policy being not violative of either

constitutional right or statutory right, the Court has no power to

interfere with it. 15. It is true that in the matter of policy decision of the

Government, the scope of judicial review is extremely limited. Unless the

decision is arbitrary, contrary to any statutory provision or the

Constitution, the Court cannot interfere with the same. 16. Article 226 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short 'the

Constitution') confers an express power on the High Court "to issue to

any person or authority, including in appropriate cases, any

Government, directions/orders/writs, including writs in the nature of 11 habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition, quo-warranto and certiorari or

any of them, for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part-III

and for any other purpose". Construing this Article, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of T.C. Basappa v. T. Nagappa and another , AIR 1954

SC 440 held as under : 17. In Dwarkanath v. I.T. Officer , AIR 1966 SC 81, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held that the power of the High Court under Article 226 cannot be equated to the English Courts to issue prerogative writs and

the High Court has wider power and can mould relief to meet the

peculiar and complicated requirements of this country. 18. Needless to say that where the obligation sought to be enforced

is associated with public duty or public interest and there is no adequate

alternate remedy for its enforcement and justice of the case requires 12 such enforcement, the same must be enforced under Article 226 by issue

of writ in the nature of mandamus. 19. In the present case, challenges have been made to various

clauses of the Excise Policy dated 23.03.2013 and order dated

05.04.2013 on the ground that those are arbitrary, unreasonable and

contrary to the statutory provision as well as the Constitution and

unworkable. The petitioners prima facie have made out a case in their

favour, the details of which we shall deal with while answering to

question no.(ii) hereinafter. 20. In the above backdrop, we are of the considered view that the

present writ petitions are maintainable. 21. Question No.(ii) is as to whether the Excise Policy dated

23.03.2013 and notification dated 05.04.2013 are arbitrary, irrational,

discriminatory, mala fide and not workable. 22. Prior to issuance of the present policy and notification, a

decision was taken by the State Government vide order No.1401/Ex

dated 28.02.2013 for settlement of all existing new IMFL Off Shops and

CS Shops through 'e-auction'. The said order was challenged in W.P.(C)

No.5606 of 2013 and the State Government was directed to show cause.

However, during pendency of the writ petition, the said order dated

28.02.2013 for holding 'e-auction' was withdrawn vide Government

Order No.1856 dated 18.03.2013 and consequently, the same was

rendered infructuous. Thereafter, the Government declared the present

Excise Policy with regard to excise duty, fee structure and guideline for

the year 2013-14 vide letter dated 23.03.2013 for settlement of IMFL 13 OFF Shops and CS shops through e-auction and consequently,

notification dated 05.04.2013 was issued, which are under challenge in

the present writ petitions on the ground that the policy and notification

in question are arbitrary, irrational, discriminatory, mala fide and not

workable. 23. Law is well-settled that trade in liquor is considered inherent,

noxious and pernicious. There is no fundamental right to trade in

intoxicating liquor. [See State of Punjab and another vs. Devans Modern

Breweries Ltd. and another , (2004) 11 SCC 26; Khoday Distilleries Ltd.

and others Vs. State of Karnataka and others , 1995 (1) SCC 574; State of

Orissa and others, Vs. Harinarayan Jaiswal and others , (1972) 2 SCC 36

(Orissa)]. 24. In Secretary to Govt., T.N. and another vs. K.

Vinayagamurthy , (2002) 7 SCC 104, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

held as under: 25. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Bihar and

others vs. Nirmal Kumar Gupta , (2013) 2 SCC 565, held as under: 20. In Nashirwar v. State of M.P.3 this Court opined that
 the State has the exclusive right or privilege in
 manufacturing and selling of liquor and a citizen has no
 fundamental right to do business in liquor. It has been
 further ruled that it is within the police power of the State
 to enforce public morality by prohibiting trade in noxious
 or dangerous goods. 21. In Har Shankar v. Excise and Taxation Commr.4 the
 Constitution Bench reiterated the principles that there is
 no fundamental right to do trade or business in
 intoxicants and the State has the authority to prohibit
 every form of activity in relation to intoxicants including
 manufacture, storage, export, import, sale and
 possession. It has also been laid down that a wider right
 to prohibit absolutely would include the narrower right to
 permit dealings in intoxicants in such terms of general
 application as the State deems expedient." 26. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of M.P. and

others vs. Nandlal Jaiswal and others , (1986) 4 SCC 566, held as

under: The Government, as was said in Permian Basin Area Rate
 cases9 is entitled to make pragmatic adjustments which
 may be called for by particular circumstances. The Court
 cannot strike down a policy decision taken by the State
 Government merely because it feels that another policy
 decision would have been fairer or wiser or more scientific
 or logical. The Court can interfere only if the policy
 decision is patently arbitrary, discriminatory or mala fide.
 It is against the background of these observations and
 keeping them in mind that we must now proceed to deal
 with the contention of the petitioners based on Article 14 of the Constitution." (underlined for emphasis) 27. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Nandlal Jaiswal (supra) further held that when the State decides to grant its exclusive

right or privilege of manufacturing and selling of liquor it cannot escape

the rigour of Article-14. In paragraph 32 of the said Judgment the

Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: (Underlined for emphasis) 28. Let us see whether either any of the provision of the Excise

Policy dated 23.03.2013 and/or order dated 05.04.2013 is arbitrary,

irrational, discriminatory, mala fide and not workable. 29. The Excise Policy decision dated 23.3.2013 has been

challenged basically on two grounds. First ground of attack is that the policy of 'e-auction' is

discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. In 17 paragraph 19 of the impugned policy, it is provided that all the existing

licences of Bhang, Tari, Pochwai and Out Still shops shall be renewed for

the year 2013-14 with hike of 12% increase over and above the existing

consideration money after observing the formalities. Similarly, paragraph

21 provides that the licensees of all the existing Out Still Shops

operating in 21 districts shall be renewed from 2013-14 with hike of 20%

over and above the existing consideration money. In respect of unsettled

shops, Collector may take steps for settlement by draw of lottery.

However, paragraph 20 provides that all the existing C.S. shops will be

settled by e-auction for the year 2013-14 and extension for two months

i.e. April and May, 2013 was granted with hike of 20% over and above

the consideration money. It was argued by the petitioners that "Out Still" (O.S.) and

"Country Spirit" (C.S.) both are licences granted for sale of country

liquor, within the definition provided under Section 2 of Act 1915. Only

difference is Country Spirit licensee gets country spirit liquor from

distillery and sells the same. Out Still licensee produces country spirit

through a still and sells it through a maximum permissible ten numbers

of branch shops. Merely because O.S. licensee produces C.S. that by

itself does not make it a class of its own, as the object sought to be

achieved is one and the same i.e. sale of country liquor. Therefore, it is

argued that the Excise Policy of the Government to, on one hand renew

the licences of all existing Bhang, Tari, Pochwai and Out still shops for

the year 2013-14 and on the other hand debarring renewal of all other

existing country spirit shops for the entire year 2013-14 is illegal, 18 contrary to the principle of equality, procedural discrimination,

unreasonable classification, test of principle of equal protection of law

that is the right to equal treatment to similar circumstances since Out

Still and C.S. are both country liquor as defined under Section 2 of the

1915 Act. It is further argued that the petitioners in some of the cases are

licensees of Country Spirit shops and are continuing their Country Spirit

shops on renewal basis on payment of licence fees as per the Excise

Policy for the last 13 years by investing huge amount of money towards

land and building, show case, engagement of man power etc. Hence they

have the legitimate expectation that their licences will be renewed for the

year 2013-14 so that they will maintain their livelihood from the earning

or profit. It is further argued that the order or policy decision has to

satisfy the test of reasonableness and must also appear to be a reasoned

decision and advanced public interest. But the present policy decision is

arbitrary and irrational. 30. Secondly, the excise policy for the year 2013-14 by the State

Government is inconsistent and against the statutory provisions of law

contained in the Act as well as Orissa Excise (Exclusive Privilege) Foreign

Liquor Rules, 1989 (in short 'Privilege Rules'). The impugned Excise

Policy providing 'e-auction' runs counter to Section 29(2) of the Act. The

express ion 'or otherwise' as found place in Clause (a) of sub-section (2)

of Section 29 cannot include 'e-auction' because when the provision was

enacted, the concept of 'e-auction' could not have been conceived and the

Legislatures had never intended to include 'e-auction' in the expression 19 'Or otherwise'. Therefore, the Excise Policy and impugned government

order in respect of 'e-auction' are not feasible in the eye of law. Moreover,

the 'e-auction' will never come under the word 'auction', because an

"auction" would require the bidders to be present in person before the

Collector at the time of auction but in an 'e-auction' realm that

requirement is totally absent. Reliance was placed in the case of State of

Orissa and others v. Gopinath Dash and others , AIR 2006 SC 651 in

support of the contention that the scope of judicial enquiry is confined to

be questioned whether the decision taken by the Government is against

any statutory provisions or it violates the fundamental rights of the

citizens or is opposed to the provisions of the Constitution. 31. The stand of the State Government is that in the matter of

dealing in intoxicant, there is no right either statutory or fundamental of

the petitioners to continue with the existing licences. The policy for the

year 2013-14 has been duly approved by the Cabinet. The Government

after considering existing policy and the previous policies have come to

the conclusion that the policy of renewal has effectively resulted in

creating a vested right with a few of the licensees which is practically

becoming heritable. Further, Government has formed an opinion that to

determine the consideration amount for parting with the privilege order

to grant exclusive privilege 'e-auction' would fetch more competitive bids

than the statutory 10% increase in the consideration amount. Grant of

exclusive privilege through 'e-auction' maintains transparency and allows

all intending bidders a reasonable opportunity to participate in 'e-

auction'. Further, it was submitted that "out-still system" is prevalent

mainly in tribal and forest areas where raw materials, i.e., to say, mahua

flower is available in plenty. Therefore, taking into consideration the

nature of the out-still system which includes manufacture and sale of

liquor, it has to be treated in a different footing. The State has introduced

the "e-auction" for the first time and intends to cover all types of liquor

and it has been in principle decided to go for 'e-auction' in respect of

"out-still" also from the next year, as evident from the Excise Policy.

Viewed from this angle also, policy decision can not be faulted with on

the ground of discrimination. It will be relevant here to state that

grievance regarding discrimination has been made not by the Out-still

licensees but by the privilege holders of CS and IMFL who hold

particularly different kind of licence from that of the out-still lincensees.

There is no discrimination per-se between the exclusive privilege holders

of IMFL and/or privilege holder of CS. 32. To deal with the challenges made against policy dated

23.03.2013 on the above two grounds, it is to be kept in mind that the

trade in intoxicants is a State monopoly under the Act. The aim and

object of the Act may have more than one object, i.e., the benefit of

revenue, improvement of public health or morals by control of liquor

trade etc. It may also be presumed that it was the intention of the

Legislature when enacting the Act to include prohibition as well. The

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Rajendra Singh Vs. State of M.P. ,

AIR 1996 SC 2736 held that the object of all Excise Laws is two folds, to

raise revenue and regulate the trade in liquor which is an obnoxious 21 substance. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Har Shankar and others etc.

etc. Vs. The Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner and others etc.,

AIR 1975 SC1121 further held that the manner and extent of regulation

rests in the discretion of the governing authority. The specific stand of

the State is that there is no vested right with the petitioners to challenge

the procedure or modalities described by the authority under the Act.

The policy has been formulated for the year 2013-14 and the same has

been duly approved by the Cabinet in the matter of dealing with

intoxicants. The Government after considering the existing policy and

previous policies have come to the conclusion that the policy of renewal

is creating a vested right with the licensee which is becoming heritable.

Further, the government has formed an opinion to hold auction to

determine the consideration amount for parting with the privilege or to

grant the privilege or to grant the exclusive privilege to deal with the

trade which will fetch more competitive bids and will thus result in

earning of more public revenue rather than the stipulation of 10%

increase of the consideration amount. 33. If we will closely look into the system of renewal of licence it will

reveal that the said system tends to create monopoly in favour of the

persons, who were granted licence in the past, to the exclusion of others

interested in the trade, who may be willing to offer higher price. The

grant of licence must be viewed in the background of the aims and

objects sought to be achieved by the Excise Act . The object of the Act is

to create State monopoly. But the State has no power to sacrifice public

interest for the benefit of third parties or to create monopoly in their 22 favour. Creation of a right of renewal in favour of the existing purchaser

irrespective of the fact that others who are prepared to offer higher price

would be creating a monopoly in favour of existing licensees and that is

certainly not in public interest. Such a system is against the public policy

and interest of the public. Renewal system is not the appropriate method

to achieve public interest. Therefore, we are of considered view that grant

of licence to trade in intoxicants through auction in each year instead of

renewal is more appropriate and is in consonance with the objects

sought to be achieved by the Excise Act . 34. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Rasbihari Vs. State of

Orissa , AIR 1969 SC 1081 considered a Scheme evolved by the State of

Orissa for sale and disposal of Kendu leaves under Section 10 of Orissa

Kendu Leaves (Control of Trade) Act, 1961. Under the Scheme, the

Government offered to renew the contracts of the existing purchasers if

they had observed and performed all the terms and conditions to the

satisfaction of the Government and had been prompt in taking delivery of

leaves and making payments. Hon'ble Supreme Court held the said

Scheme invalid and observed as under:- The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the said case, further held as follows:- 35. In view of the above, the system/policy of renewal or any clause

in the agreement to that effect should be construed against the existing

licensees. We do not think that it is necessary to find out as to whether a

distinction has been made for grant of licence for trade in CS and IMFL

through e-auction for the year 2013-14 and there is any reasonable cause

to adopt the same procedure in respect of OS in the next year, i.e., 2014- 15. Moreover, it is nobody's case that the State has made any distinction

among the licensees of CS and IMFL shops. A conscious decision was

taken by the State that the CS and IMFL shops shall be settled by e-

auction throughout the State. It is also nobody's case that the settlement

of OS through 'e-auction' has been totally excluded; on the other hand, it

is postponed to the next year only. 36. Moreover, exclusion of one sub-class from the Policy will not

itself vitiate the Policy. [See M.P. Oil Extraction and another Vs. State of

M.P. and others , (1997) 7 SCC 592]. 37. In the fact situation, we are of the view that the impugned

Excise Policy is not discriminatory and/or hit by Article 14 of the

Constitution, inasmuch as "Out-still system" of liquor has been permitted

to enjoy exclusive privilege on the basis of renewal for the year 2013-14, 24 whereas such privilege has been denied to the existing licensees in respect

of CS and IMFL. 38. Now, coming to the second ground of challenge it is vehemently

argued that clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 29 of the Act does not

bring within its sweep 'e-auction'. Therefore, without amending the said

provision, the State has no power to grant exclusive privilege through e-

auction. The specific stand of the State is that 'auction' in its generic

term will include 'e-auction'. The word 'auction' has not been defined in

the Act. Therefore, the meaning thereof has to be gathered from common

parlance of the word as per the dictionary meaning. Oxford Advanced

Learner's Dictionary of Current English, Eighth Edition, 2010 defines

'auction' "a public event at which things are sold to the person who offers

the most money for them". The examples provided therein also include

"an internet auction site". Meaning 'e' has been given in Oxford ALD: 'e'

as a combining form (in nouns and verbs) is connected with the use of

electronic communication, especially the internet, for sending

information and doing business etc. The main ingredients of auction

namely 'Public participation', 'bid' and 'auctioneer' are present also in the

'e-auction' process. In the alternative, it is submitted by the State that the word

'otherwise' as given in Section 29(2) (a) of the Act will comprehend in its

grammatical variation mode of 'e-auction'. Therefore, there is no

infringement of statue as such. 39. For better appreciation of rival contentions, it is necessary to

quote here sub-section (2)(a) of Section 29 of the Act:- 40. A plain reading of Sub-section (2)(a) of Section 29 reveals that it

provides three modes of settlement of exclusive privilege, i.e., (a) by

auction, (b) by calling tender, and (iii) 'or otherwise' as the State may in

the interest of excise revenue by general or special order direct. The

stand of the State Government is that auction includes e-auction. In

support of such contention, reliance is placed on the Dictionary meaning

of the word 'auction' given in Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary of

Current English, Eighth Edition. Alternatively, it is also contended that

"or otherwise" appearing in Section 29(2)(a) also will comprehend in its

grammatical variation mode of 'e-auction'. An attempt has been made by

the petitioners to distinguish and draw distinction between 'auction' and

'e-auction'. Referring to the dictionary meaning and Halsbury's Laws of

England, 3rd Edition, Vol.2, page 69 it is argued that 'auction' as defined

in other statutes which requires the presence of the participants in case

of auction which is absent in 'e-auction'. Therefore, it is argued that State

has no power of holding e-auction within the existing provisions under Section 29(2)(a) of the Act. Some of the petitioners have also raised an

interesting point that when the provisions of Section 29(2)(a) were

enacted the 'e-auction' concept was not thinkable and the Legislature

had never intended to include 'e-auction' in the words "or otherwise". 26 41. We have already stated that the objects and reasons of

enactment of the Act; it is a State monopoly and the Act has more than

one object, i.e., benefit of the revenue and improvement of public health

or moral by control of liquor trade etc. 42. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Har Shankar (supra) held that it

is not a privilege of a citizen of a State to sell intoxicating liquor by retail,

as it is a business attended with danger to the community, it may be

entirely prohibited or be permitted under such conditions as will limit to

the utmost its evils. The manner and extent of regulation rests in the

discretion of the governing authority. 43. On this background, if we consider the provisions of Section

29(2)(a) of the Act, one of the modes for grant of exclusive privilege

appearing in the said Section is "or otherwise". The expression 'or

otherwise' is wide enough to adopt any mode as the State Government

may think proper in the interest of excise revenue. The expression "or

otherwise" has been provided in Section 29(2)(a) in addition to "by

auction" or "by calling tender". The sole purpose is that in the prevalent

circumstances there may be some more proper/suitable mode for grant

of exclusive privilege besides "by auction" or "by calling tender". 44. The matter can be looked into from a different angle. The

petitioners have no grievance for grant of exclusive privilege through

auction. Their grievance is against grant of exclusive privilege through 'e-

auction'. Undisputedly, both 'auction' and 'e-auction' aim at

transparency in grant of exclusive privilege. The only grievance of the

petitioners is that in case of 'e-auction', the physical presence of the 27 bidders is not necessary. In our opinion, such a grievance is hyper

technical and in no way detrimental to the object sought to be achieved

by settling the exclusive privilege through 'e-auction'. With the

advancement of technology and technical know-how and keeping with

the change of time and circumstances more transparency and fair play

can be maintained in case of settlement of exclusive privilege through 'e-

auction'. 45. For the reasons stated above, we are of the considered view

that grant of exclusive privilege through 'e-auction' comes within the

enabling provision of Section 29(2)(a) and there is no need to bring any

amendment to Section 29(2)(a) for grant of exclusive privilege through 'e-

auction'. 46. In view of the above, it cannot be said that the policy decision

dated 23.03.2013 is not sustainable on the challenges made by the

petitioners. 47. Now, we have to examine as to whether the order dated

05.04.2013 issued in pursuance of the above Excise Policy is arbitrary,

irrational, discriminatory, mala fide and not workable. 48. To deal with the above aspect, it would be beneficial to know

what Wednesbury principle is? The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Tata Cellular Vs. Union of India , AIR 1996 SC 11 held as under:- 99. Two other facets of irrationality may be mentioned.
(1) It is open to the court to review the decision- maker's evaluation of the facts. The court will
intervene where the facts taken as a whole could not
logically warrant the conclusion of the decision-maker.
If the weight of facts pointing to one course of action is
overwhelming, then a decision the other way, cannot
be upheld. Thus, in Emma Hotels Ltd. v. Secretary of
State for Environment 34, the Secretary of State
referred to a number of factors which led him to the
conclusion that a non-resident's bar in a hotel was
operated in such a way that the bar was not an
incident of the hotel use for planning purposes, but
constituted a separate use. The Divisional Court
analysed the factors which led the Secretary of State to
that conclusion and, having done so, set it aside. Donaldson, L.J. said that he could not see on what
basis the Secretary of State had reached his
conclusion. (2) A decision would be regarded as unreasonable if it
is impartial and unequal in its operation as between
different classes. On this basis in R. v. Barnet London
Borough Council, ex p Johnson 35 the condition
imposed by a local authority prohibiting participation
by those affiliated with political parties at events to be
held in the authority's parks was struck down." xx xx xx 101. A modern comprehensive statement about
judicial review by Lord Denning is very apposite; it is
perhaps worthwhile noting that he stresses the
supervisory nature of the jurisdiction : 112. In Union of India v. Hindustan Development
 Corpn.6 this Court held thus : (SCC p. 515, para 9)
 "... the Government had the right to either accept or
 reject the lowest offer but that of course, if done on a
 policy, should be on some rational and reasonable
 grounds. In Erusian Equipment & Chemicals Ltd. v. State of W.B.9 this Court observed as under : (SCC p.
 75, para 17)
 'When the Government is trading with the public, "the
 democratic form of Government demands equality and
 absence of arbitrariness and discrimination in such
 transactions". The activities of the Government have a
 public element and, therefore, there should be fairness
 and equality. The State need not enter into any
 contract with anyone, but if it does so, it must do so
 fairly without discrimination and without unfair
 procedure.' " Wednesbury Corpn.8 (KB at p. 229: All ER p. 682). It
reads as follows: Lord Greene also observed (KB p. 230: All ER p. 683)
"... it must be proved to be unreasonable in the sense
that the court considers it to be a decision that no
reasonable body can come to. It is not what the court
considers unreasonable. ... The effect of the legislation
is not to set up the court as an arbiter of the
correctness of one view over another." (emphasis supplied)
Therefore, to arrive at a decision on "reasonableness"
the Court has to find out if the administrator has left
out relevant factors or taken into account irrelevant
factors. The decision of the administrator must have
been within the four corners of the law, and not one
which no sensible person could have reasonably
arrived at, having regard to the above principles, and
must have been a bona fide one. The decision could be
one of many choices open to the authority but it was
for that authority to decide upon the choice and not for
the Court to substitute its view. The CCSU case (1985) and the expectation of future
adoption of proportionality 11. The principles of judicial review of administrative
action were further summarised in 1985 by Lord
Diplock in Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister
for Civil Service9 as illegality, procedural impropriety
and irrationality. He said more grounds could in future 32 become available, including the doctrine of
 proportionality which was a principle followed by
 certain other members of the European Economic
 Community. Lord Diplock observed in that case as
 follows: Lord Diplock explained "irrationality" as follows: 50. Since the State has filed counter in W.P.(C) No.8084 of 2013,

and filed memo with a prayer to adopt the same in other connected writ

petitions, let us first examine the various challenges made to the order

dated 5.4.2013 in the said writ petition taking into consideration the rival

contentions of the parties. 51. The first ground of challenge is that the State Government is

not authorised under Section 29(2) of the Act to introduce the process of

e-auction as under the said provision the legislature has not empowered

the authority to implement the modality for settlement of exclusive

privilege. Therefore, the impugned excise order is contrary to law, beyond

the scope of statute and hence liable to be quashed. 33 (ii) The stand of State-opposite parties is that the modality to

be prescribed for settlement of exclusive privilege under Sec. 29(2) being

an order made under the empowerment of statute does not require

legislative sanction. (iii) At this juncture, it is necessary to quote the relevant

portions of Section 29 of the Act, which provides for payment for grant of

exclusive privilege. (iv) A true construction of Section 29(1) reveals that the State

Government may accept payment of a sum in consideration of the grant

of any exclusive privilege under Section 22 instead of or in addition to

any duty leviable under the Excise Act . Clause (a) of Sub-section (2) of Section 29 prescribes the modes how the consideration amount payable

under Sub-section (1) of Section 29 shall be determined. Clause (b) of

Sub-section (2) of Section 29 empowers the State Government to pass

order specifying the authority and control subject to which the

consideration money shall be determined. (v) It may be noted that Section 89 (2)(i)(1) and (2) of the Act

provides that the State Government may make rules for regulating the 34 procedure to be followed and prescribing the matters to be ascertained

before any licence for the wholesale or retail vend or any (intoxicant) is

granted for any locality and for regulating the time, place and manner of

payment of the sum payable under Section 29 . (vi) Thus, Section 89 empowers the State Government to make

rules for regulation, procedure etc. as provided under Section 89(2)(i)(1)

and (2). Therefore, without making such rules, as contemplated under

Section 89 (2) (i) (1) and (2), the State cannot issue the impugned order

in exercise of its power under Section 29(2) prescribing modality,

eligibility criterion etc. for determination of consideration through e-

auction. 52. Further stand of petitioners is that process of 'e-auction' is not

provided in the statute and as per the definition of 'auction', the presence

of bidders is necessary at the time of conducting the same whereas in

case of 'e-auction', the said practice is not followed. Since we have already held that the settlement of exclusive

privilege through 'e-auction' is coming within the purview of Section 29(2) (a), the said ground of challenge on that score fails. 53. The next ground of challenge is that 'e-auction' will certainly

entail loss of Government revenue and will also against the interest of

State Government as many bona fide EP holders will be deprived of

participating in the e-auction process due to several restrictions imposed

in the said order. Every licensee has to arrange his own upgraded

computer, internet connection, back up, generator, scan machine, etc.

and shall be well conversant in internet system. The other restriction is 35 that in case of internet failure, the State Government will not be

responsible in any manner. It is submitted that such stringent

requirements are nothing but aimed to put the bona fide licensees to

harassment and to deprive them from participating in the process.

Moreover, in remote areas of Odisha, it is not possible to comply such

requirements. The genuine difficulties of the licensees in remote rural

areas of Odisha where no internet facilities, electricity connection are

available as yet, were not taken into consideration at all. Even in Naxal

areas, time and again, the internet towers are being damaged. Thus, the

e-auction system will only help a group of licensees of urban areas who

are in privileged position. It is further alleged that the existing licensees of Odisha are

mostly uneducated so far as internet system is concerned and to get

them educated it needs sufficient time otherwise the e-auction process

cannot be implemented properly and the genuine licensees will be

deprived of participating in the same due to their lack of education and

ultimately they will lose their source of income. The reply of the State is that the order does not prohibit the

bona fide 'e-auction' holder from participating in the e-auction process.

There is no intention to harass the bona fide licensees as alleged. In the

present day, the requirement of a computer and internet system is

essential. If it is not available for any reason with the intending bidder,

he can take the help of a person on whom he has confidence and who

possesses such facilities. Therefore, clause (a) provides the bidder or his

associates and contemplates a bidder who has access to hardwire and it 36 is not the requirement that every bidder is required to own a computer

and internet facility. A reasonable time has been granted to the intending

bidder to have access to the computer and internet from a place where it

is so available. The intending bidder, who pays a monthly consideration

amount in thousands and at time, running into lakhs, cannot be said to

be deprived of the facility to travel and avail access to a computer and

internet facility in a place of his choice. There is no stipulation under the

Act that the person bidding for a particular shop must belong to that

particular area or must give a bid from that particular place. Further reply of the State is that the operation of the exclusive

privilege involves a whole gamut of following of forms as prescribed under

the Act and the Rules made there under and even uneducated persons

are complying with such requirements through their staff engaged or

their authorized agent. The process of e-auction is prevalent in the

matters of coal allotment. Even for construction works of the State

Government, in case of works exceeding Rs.10 lakhs e-tendering has

been made mandatory. Therefore, it is too late in the day to say that the

Government should be precluded from e-auction as there is likelihood of

some persons not being familiar or educate enough to participate in the

'e-auction'. After considering the allegation of the petitioners and reply of

the State to the allegations, we do not find that participation in e-auction

through internet is impracticable so far as the bidders belonging to

remote rural areas are concerned. In the advanced technology age,

computer and internet are always beneficial to carry on many 37 transactions. That will create more transparency in the transaction and

provide safety to the participants as there will be no threatening from

hooligans at the instance of mischief mongers. However, at this stage, we

feel it appropriate to suggest that the State should allow participants to

take help of internet facility available at NIC maintained in each district

at Collectorate Office and provide assistance of computer operator, if they

so required to remove all apprehensions of internet failure, power supply

failure, etc. as alleged by the petitioners. 54. The next ground of challenge is that the process of 'e-auction' is

not adopted by any State throughout India till date except Odisha. The

existing system of 'auction' is a clean system and running smoothly and

facilitating the Government in raising revenue. By introducing the

process of 'e-auction' there is less possibility of augmenting more revenue

than before. It is only an eye wash and in the name of maintaining

transparency such policy has been adopted by the Govt. to facilitate

proxy bidders and outside bidders and deprive the existing licensees. The

decision of the Excise Department is against the public policy and is an

arbitrary action which is tainted with mala fide and also against the

principles of natural justice. To this, reply of the State is that the Government in its own

wisdom, after analyzing various factors, has decided as a matter of policy

to introduce 'e-auction' system as it is likely to fetch more competitive

bids in comparison to straight renewal and it is not for the petitioner to

say that under the existing system, there is less possibility of augmenting

more revenue than before. It is further submitted that it is not known 38 how the new system will facilitate proxy bidders and the existing

licensees are likely to be harassed. Rather there is no scope for the proxy

bidders and cartel with vested interest as each bidder will be issued with

a separate mask ID. Considering the rival contentions, we are of the opinion that

there has to be a beginning at some point of time keeping in tune of the

challenging situation and demand of the time and society. It is always

wise to take advantage of the new technologies, if it serves better than

the earlier existing/old method. Since each bidder will be issued with a

separate mask ID, we are unable to understand how the system of new e-

auction will facilitate proxy bidders and the existing licensees are likely to

be harassed. Merely because 'e-auction' has been introduced for the first

time in our State, that cannot be a ground to strike down the process

unless it is established that such system in any manner is detrimental to

the public interest. Since the State in its wisdom has taken a decision

that 'e-auction' system would fetch more revenue, we are not inclined to

interfere with their decision without any convincing and valid reason. 55. The further challenge is that the Government who is the

granting authority of exclusive privilege under Section 22 of the Act has

delegated such power to the Collector of the District. In paragraph 96 of

Chapter-3 Excise Manual Vol.III, it is clearly stipulated that Collector

himself is to conduct the auction but in the 'e-auction' process such

procedure has been violated. The Excise Auction Committee has been

constituted for settlement of exclusive privilege. Therefore, it is argued

that such formation of the Committee is contrary to the Act. 39 In reply, it is submitted by the State that it is trite law that

delegatee will exercise the power till such time of delegation and the

power really vests with the authority which delegates the power. The

Excise Manual Vol.III is a manual and has no statutory effect and

therefore cannot override the notification made under the statute. There is no dispute that under Section 22 of the Act, the State

Government is only empowered to grant exclusive privilege and has

delegated such power to the Collector of the district. Therefore, the

delegatee shall exercise such power during the period of delegation.

Needless to say that power is always vested with the delegator. In the

instant case, the State Government constituted a committee and

delegated the power to process 'e-auction' to arrive at the highest bid on

a Committee called "Excise Auction Committee' chaired by

Commissioner. At this juncture, it is relevant to deal with the grounds of

challenge raised in other writ petitions with regard to vesting of the power

of granting exclusive privilege with the 'Excise Auction Committee'. In

W.P.(C) No.9471 of 2013 and others, a stand is taken that the impugned

order is violative of and contrary to Rule 4 of the Privilege Rules. It is

contended that Rule 4 of the said Rules provides for determination of

consideration money by the Collector whereas in the impugned order

such power is vested with Excise Auction Committee. In W.P.(C) No.8911 of 2013, a stand has been taken that

Chapter-III of Part-I of Rule 103 of the Board's Excise Rules, 1965 provides

the manner of fixation and realization of fees for licences for retail vending 40 of country spirit and Chapter-III of the instruction framed by the Board of

Revenue, Orissa provides for settlement and grant of licenses under the

Rules and Instructions. Paragraphs 93 to 108 provide the procedure for

settlement by auction and the conduct of the auction. Therefore, it was

argued that the order of the State Government to put the existing C.S.

shops IMIFL OFF shops through 'e-auction' without prescribing any rules

and instructions is illegal, arbitrary and contrary to law. Now, the question arises as to whether the impugned order

shall override Rule 4 of the Privilege Rules, which has been made by the

State Government in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1)

of Section 89 of the Act read with proviso to sub-section (3) of the said

Section. In our opinion, Privilege Rules made in exercise of rule making

power vested with the State Government under sub-section (1) of Section

89 read with proviso to sub-section (3) of the said Rule is at higher

pedestal than the impugned order passed under Section 29(2) . Therefore,

the impugned order cannot override the Rule 4 of Privilege Rules. Similarly, the next question arises whether without amending

Rule 103 of the Board's Excise Rules, 1965 which has been made in

exercise of the power conferred by Section 90 of the Act, the State

Government can provide the manner of settlement of CS shops in the

order passed under Section 29(2) of the Act. We have no hesitation to

hold that the Board's Excise Rules, 1965 is at higher footing than the

impugned order. Therefore, without amending Rule 103, the issuance of

the impugned order which provides new procedure to the extent

inconsistent to the provisions of Rule 103 is not valid. 41 In view of the above, we are of the opinion that the action of the

State Govt. delegating the power of determination of the consideration

money to the Excise Auction Committee without amending Rule 4 and

proviso to sub-rule (3) of Rules 1989 and Rule 103 of Board's Excise

Rules, 1965 is not valid. It may be noted that Section 89 (2)(i)(1) and (2) of the Act

provides that the State Government may make rules for regulating the

procedure to be followed and prescribing the matters to be ascertained

before any licence for the wholesale or retail vend or any (intoxicant) is

granted for any locality and for regulating the time, place and manner of

payment of the sum payable under Section 29 . A true construction of Section 29 reveals that the State Government may accept payment of a

sum in consideration of the grant of any exclusive privilege under Section

22 instead of or in addition to any duty leviable under the Act. Sub-

section (2) of Section 29 prescribes the mode how the consideration

amount payable under Sub-section (1) of Section 29 shall be determined.

But as stated above, Section 89 empowers the State Government to make

rules for regulation, procedure etc. as provided under Section 89(2)(i)(1)

and (2). Therefore, without making such rules, as contemplated under

Section 89 (2) (i) (1) and (2), the State cannot issue the impugned order

in exercise of its power under Section 29(2) prescribing eligibility

criterion to proceed for 'e-auction'. 56. The further challenge to the impugned order is that in the new

system the Excise Department has decided that licensee has to produce

solvency certificate for 12 months of the consideration amount of the 42 exclusive privilege on the basis of the land records and similarly the

licensee is prohibited to deal with the said land against which the

solvency certificate would be issued. Such a system is highly stringent

and harassing in nature and against the fundamental right of the

licensee guaranteed under the Constitution of India. In W.P.(C) No. 8911 of 2013 a challenge has also been made

with regard to furnishing of solvency certificate. It is alleged that the

Collector has accepted non-refundable application fee and solvency

certificate three times of monthly consideration money in Form-VI issued

under Rule 3 (v) of the Orissa Miscellaneous Certificates Rules, 1984

from the petitioners for the year 2013-14. Therefore, the payment of non-

refundable application fee and submission of solvency certificate again

equal to not less than 12 times of reserve price by the petitioners for each

shop as per Para (vi) (a) and (c) of the impugned Order to qualify for

participation in 'e-auction' is illegal and the petitioners having small

means were not able to take part in 'e-auction' due to requirements of

huge amount of solvency certificate within shot span of time. Because of

such condition, the super rich people or big corporate shall capture

liquor trade. In the Counter, it is stated that the condition regarding

production of solvency certificate is rational and logical as the excise

licence is granted for the entire excise year, i.e., for the entire 12 months,

and the intending licensee should have solvency at least 12 times of the

monthly reserve price of the shop(s) to bid for and not the consideration

amount as stated by the petitioners. There is no fundamental right to 43 trade in intoxicants as has been decided time and again by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court. In our view, since the petitioner has already furnished the non-

refundable application fee and solvency certificate for three times of

monthly consideration money for the year 2013-14, there is no reason to

ask to furnish solvency certificate again equal to not less than 12 times

of the reserve price by the petitioner for each shop as per Para (vi) (a) and (c) of the order to qualify for participation in 'e-auction'. No doubt, the

State having the exclusive right to deal with intoxicants and in order to

protect the interest of Revenue, it can ask for reasonable adequate

security, but the State should not fix the amount of security in such a

manner that the genuine small intending parties shall be excluded from

participating in the 'e-auction'. We do not find any cogent reason for

asking solvency certificate equal to not less than 12 times of the reserve

price despite the fact that the licensees have already furnished the

solvency certificate three times of the monthly consideration money for

the year 2013-14. Therefore, this needs reconsideration by the State. 57. The further allegation is that Out Still liquor shops are similarly

placed but the 'e-auction' process has not been made applicable to it

which amounts to discrimination. Since earlier we have already held that there is no

discrimination on this score, allegation on this score fails. 58. Another important challenge to the notification is that under

the impugned order, the Excise Commissioner is the final authority in

the matter of settlement of exclusive privilege. Such a clause is 44 redundant and void in law since as per Rule 60 of the Rules, the Excise

Commissioner is the appellate authority against the order of the

Collector, who is the granting authority of the exclusive privilege. Such

provision is still in vogue and therefore, the Excise Commissioner cannot

act as the authority for settlement of exclusive privilege under the new

system which is against the existing Rules. State's reply is that Section 29(2)(b) provides that the sum

payable under Sub-section (1) shall be determined by such authority and

subject to such control as may be specified in such order. Therefore, the

Notification having been made under Section 29(2) of the Act, formation

of the Committee which is not to discharge any statutory function but to

over-see the process of 'e-auction' being chaired by the Excise

Commissioner cannot be faulted with. The Collectors of the respective

districts are the licensing authorities under Section 20 of the Act. The

power remains with the Collectors but only the process of 'auction' to

arrive at the highest bid is being carried on by the Committee. A

combined reading of clause (ii) with clause (xix) which states that the

decision of the Excise Commissioner or any grievance arising in course of

the 'e-auction' process in the State shall be final will lead to the

conclusion that the Committee is only to conduct the 'e-auction' and not

the real process of settlement as would be evident from clause (4). 'E-

auction', as stated under clause-3, will be published in the sale notice

and will be made available in 'e-auction' website and official website.

Therefore, 'e-auction' process has nothing to do with deciding the

available statutory remedies. Para (vii) (e) of the impugned order provides that "bidder shall

abide by the decisions of the Excise Commissioner in case of any

grievance arising in course of the 'e-auction' process. Clause (xix) of the

impugned order also provides that "the decision of the Excise

Commissioner on any grievance arising in course of the e-auction process

in the State shall be final". As per Para (ii) of the impugned order, the

process of settlement shall be conducted by a departmental Excise

Auction Committee (EAC), chaired by the Excise Commissioner and

comprising 3 to 6 members appointed by him from time to time. At this juncture, it is necessary to refer to Section 8 of the Act

provides for control, appeal and revision. Section 8 of the Act provides

that the Collector, shall, in all proceedings under the Excise Act be

subject to the control of the Excise Commissioner. Sub-section (2) of Section 8 further provides that the order passed under the Act or any

Rule made there under shall be appealable to such authorities and under

such procedure as may be prescribed by Rule 89, clause (c). Rule 60 of

Rules, 1965 provides that appeal shall lie to the Commissioner from the

order made by the Collector or Additional District Magistrate. Principles

of natural justice demands that nobody should be the judge of his own

cause. Section 8 of the Act and Rule 60 of the Rules being in vogue, in

our opinion, the provisions contained in Paras (ii), (vii) (e) and clause-

(xix) are contrary to Section 8 read with Rule 60 of the Excise Rules and

violative of principles of natural justice and needs reconsideration. It

would be desirable to designate somebody else as appellate authority or 46 to head the Committee (EAC), to get over the legal deficiencies indicated

above. 59. It is also alleged that as per report of the Committee consisting

of Dr. Arabinda Kumar Padhi, IAS, Ex-Excise Commissioner, Odisha

accompanied by two Deputy Excise Commissioners the renewal of excise

shops in favour of existing licensees was appreciated and as such

suggestion was given accordingly to the State Government. Therefore,

introduction of e-auction for settlement of exclusive privilege is not just

and proper. In reply, it is stated that the State Government having been

vested with the power of grant of exclusive privilege, on its wisdom, has

decided not to accept the report of the Committee. The Committee has

submitted an open mind report suggesting the pros and cons of the

auction process vis-à-vis renewal process. After perusing the said report,

the State Government has taken a conscious decision in the Cabinet to

go for 'e-auction'. In view of the above stand taken by the State, it cannot be said

that introduction of 'e-auction' is improper being contrary to the

suggestion given by the Dr. Padhi's Committee. Moreover, perusal of the

said report does not reveal that any study has been made by the

Committee as to whether 'e-auction' is beneficial to the Revenue or not

and the three States referred to in the report of the Committee have

introduced 'e-auction'. Therefore, the report of the Committee does not

lend any support to the challenge made by the petitioner to the impugned

order. 60. The impugned order has been challenged on the ground that the

sum payable for grant of privilege and MGQ in favour of the petitioners

have already been determined by the Government putting 20% hike over

the existing consideration money as per Para 20 of the Excise Policy dated

23.03.2013 and taking into account the provisions of Section 29(2) of the

Act and Rule 6-A of Rules, 1970. Therefore, the petitioners are entitled to

renewal of CS shop licences for the year 2013-14. It is only in order to facilitate completion of 'e-auction' as per

the policy already approved by the Cabinet it has been decided to grant

extension of licence to existing C.S. shops for two months, i.e., April and

May, 2013 with a hike of 20% in consideration money. Therefore, on

consideration of such ground, no right of renewal of the CS shops for the

entire year 2013-14 accrues in favour of the petitioners on that basis. 61. It is further alleged that as per Rule 31 of the Rules, if any

licence is granted at any time after 1st April it shall be granted only up to

31st March next year. Therefore, it is argued that since the licence has

been granted after April, 2013 the same must be granted till 31st March,

2014. A true construction of Sub-rule (6) justifies the action of the

State in granting the licence for two months, i.e., April and May, 2013

out of the whole excise year 2013-14 for the reasons stated in paragraph

20 of the impugned order. Therefore, the claim of the petitioners for

renewal of the licence for the whole year 2013-14 on the basis of Sub-

rule (2) of Rule 31 merits no consideration. 62. Referring to Para (viii) of the impugned order it is challenged

that the provisions contained in said paragraph are contrary to principles

of natural justice. Clause (viii) of the impugned order reads as follows: auction process. Bidders who are found to be
 eligible in online scrutiny shall be approved in
 the system by the EAC members with assistance
 of IT support staff. The e-auction pre- qualification status shall be updated
 automatically in the registered bidders' online
 profile before start date of e-auction, and
 system-generated e-mails and SMSs on pre- qualification status may also be sent to all
 registered bidders." (underlined for emphasis)

Perusal of such condition reveals that the EAC members with assistance

of IT support staff, shall conduct online scrutiny of pre-qualification

documents and on scrutiny if the said documents are found to be

defective and inadequate the bidders' profiles shall be summarily rejected

online along with the justification/reason which can be viewed online by

the concerned bidder and thereafter the bidder shall not be permitted by

the system to participate in 'e-auction' process. There is nothing in the

said clause to show that before disqualifying the registered bidder by

rejecting his/her scanned documents neither a show cause notice nor 49 any opportunity of hearing has been provided to the registered bidder.

Disqualification of a registered bidder has civil consequence. Therefore,

before disqualifying a registered bidder from participating in the 'e-

auction', principles of natural justice demands that an opportunity of

hearing should be given to the registered bidder. To this extent, the

provision contained in Clause (viii) of the impugned order is arbitrary and

un-reasonable and the same needs reconsideration by the State. There is

no dispute over the contention of the State that the trade in intoxicants is

a State monopoly under the Excise Act , Rules made thereunder and no

one can claim against the State the right to carry on trade or business in

liquor and the State cannot be compelled to part with its exclusive right

or privilege of manufacturing and selling liquor. But when the State

decides to grant such right or privilege to others, the State cannot escape

from rigour of Article 14. It cannot act arbitrarily or at its sweet will. It

must comply with the equality clause while granting the exclusive right

or privilege of manufacturing or selling liquor. It, therefore, cannot be

possible to uphold the contention of the State Government that Article 14 can have no application in a case where the licence to manufacture or to

sell liquor is being granted by the State Government. The State cannot

ride roughshod over the requirement of that Article. (See Nadlal Jaiswal's

case (supra). 63. It is challenged that e-auction principle as envisaged in Para (x)

of the impugned order without framing Rule as contemplated under Section 89 of the Act and without issuance of Form-A statutory sale

notice is illegal and not sustainable. In view of the specific stand of the State, that necessary

documents to be filled up will be floated along with the sale notice and

there will be a gap in between the Sale Notice and the date of auction and

intending bidders will have enough time to complete and process their

applications in pursuance of the sale notice, the allegation of the

petitioners on this score is premature. Further stand of the State which

merits consideration is that the sale notice will be published in Form-A,

which is a statutory document, and other affidavit is a format and it has

been styled as Form 'B' which will be prescribed along with the sale notice. 64. The further challenge is that the pre-qualification scrutiny of

bidders being done at the level of Excise Commissioner on the basis of

the scanned documents uploaded online, there is every chance of

presentation of forged or fabricated documents for the purpose of

qualifying and to disturb the 'e-auction' by unscrupulous bidders. If any

defective or fraud documents are detected during final verification stage,

the entire 'e-auction' procedure will turn to be e-fraud and it will affect

small traders and they have to ensure again internet connection and

other infrastructure to participate in 'e-auction'. On the above ground, the impugned order cannot be said

arbitrary or unworkable. In such event, Clause (b) of Para (xiii) provides

that all provisional highest bidders for respective shops are required to

submit original documents to prove that he is the owner of the premises

or has rented the premises where he intends to set up shops in

designated locality. Failure to furnish the documents prescribed in the

said paragraph before stipulated deadline or furnishing forged document 51 shall be sufficient ground for cancellation of provisional highest bidder

status and filing of false/forged document shall make the bidder liable

for criminal proceedings under the provisions of IPC . However, it may be appropriate to verify the genuineness of the

documents before auction commences. This aspect needs consideration

to avoid unnecessary post-auction complicacies. 65. Referring to para (xv) of the impugned order, it is submitted

that in case the petitioners will become the highest bidder then they can

provide their existing shop premises for opening of the shop(s) after

issuance of licence, but in case of new bidder who becomes successful in

e-auction cannot provide premises for opening of shop(s). Therefore, it is

submitted that the conditions stipulated in para (xv) are contrary to

Form-A public notice and the same cannot be enforced in case of the new

bidders. The reason given by the petitioners to challenge the illegality of

Clause (xv) is not sustainable because on the basis of the documents

furnished as required under Clause (xiii)(b) to prove that the highest

bidder is owner or tenant of the premises, the licence shall be issued to a

highest bidder. 66. Next challenge to the impugned order is that as per the

condition stipulated in sub-clause (c) of Clause (vi), the bidders from

outside the State of Orissa will take part in auction by submitting the

Solvency Certificate in respect of the immovable property situated in

outside State of Orissa. Therefore, it is argued that the 'e-auction', will

certainly create scope to the big excise vendors to do monopoly in excise 52 business as a result of which small excise vendors will be wiped out from

the retail business and the said big excise vendors will certainly detect

things to the office. Thus it is argued that sub-clause (c) of Clause (vi) is

unreasonable, unfair and against the interest of the Government

Revenue. Further referring to Instruction No. 100 of the Instructions

framed by the Board of Revenue, Orissa, it is submitted that the Excise

policy does not envisage that the highest bid on every occasion must be

accepted. State must prevent monopoly in a district. The instruction

further envisages to promote small local businessman and to prevent

capitalist who will scare away opposition. As per the said instruction,

price is not the sole criteria for accepting a bid. Paragraphs 6 and 8 of counter of the State Government in W.P.

(C) No. 8084 of 2013 and W.P.(C) No. 7030 of 2013 clearly reveal that

fetching of better revenue is the sole consideration for the 'e-auction'.

Thus it is argued that e-auction is clearly against the instruction framed

by the Board of Revenue which is the basis of the State's Excise Policy. In this context it is further argued that the report of the Excise

Commissioner is very relevant which clearly indicates that e-auction will

increase monopoly of big houses and frighten away the small vendors

who are ready to run the shop and pay the Govt. dues out of the profits

of the shop. The fresh 'e-auction' order dated 5.4.2013 will bring the

liquor barons of the country into the fray and virtually wipe out the small

local vendors by creating a monopoly. Reliance is placed on a judgment of this Court in the case of

Orissa Printers and Binders Mahasangha Vrs. State of Orissa and

others in W.P.(C) No.2862 of 2010. Reliance is also placed on a judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Nandalal's case (supra) and it has been submitted that the

State cannot act arbitrarily on its own sweet will. Further placing reliance upon the Full Bench decision of this

Court in the case of Bijay Kumar Panigrahi and others Vrs. State of

Orissa (AIR 2011 Orissa 174), it is submitted that this Court upheld

the State Government's endeavour to remove inequalities amongst Big

Contractors and Small Contractors. Now, it is relevant to extract here the Instruction No.100 of the

Instructions framed by Board of Revenue, Orissa. This Court in the case of Orissa Printers and Binders

Mahasangha (supra) struck down the resolution deciding to invite

National Tender on the ground that such resolution was against the

Industrial Policy issued by the State Government. Instruction No. 100 of Instructions framed by Board of

Revenue, Orissa, does not envisage that the highest bid on every 54 occasion must be accepted. On the other hand, the State seeks to

prevent monopoly in a district. The Instruction also provides to promote

small local businessman and seeks to prevent capitalist who will scare

away opposition. Price is not the sole criteria for accepting the bid. But, paragraphs-6 and 8 of the counter filed by the State reveal

that better revenue is the sole consideration for adopting 'e-auction'.

Such subjective is certainly against the instruction framed by the Board

of Revenue which is also an Excise Policy. At this stage, it is relevant to extract here the relevant portion

of the Full Bench decision of this Court in the case of Bijay Kumar

Panigrahi (supra). Same reads as follows:- It is also relevant to extract here the relevant portion of the

Excise Department order dated 28.2.2013. Same reads as under:- We make it clear that we are not against introduction of 'e-

auction' for the purpose of settlement of exclusive privilege in favour of

successful bidders, but while doing so, the State may make appropriate

rules and regulations to protect the interest of small traders of good

character with independent means who manage their own shop(s). This aspect of the matter can be looked at from a different

angle. In view of the impugned order, bidders from across the country,

small or big, can participate in 'e-auction' irrespective of situation of the

property in any State. The bidders need not hold property in the State for

the purpose of furnishing Solvency Certificate. It may so happen that

liquor baron of the country, who is a manufacturer of IMFL, participates

in the 'e-auction' and offering some attractive bids gets all IMFL shops of

the State settled in his favour. Thereafter, he will try to sell his own

product of IMFL in the State through all the IMFL retail outlets and

Orissa State Beverage Corporation shall be bound to procure a particular

IMFL brand as per demand of the retail IMFL outlets. This will certainly

create unhealthy situation. The IMFL of other brands would be smuggled

and sold in the State in fraudulent manner resulting loss of Government

Revenue. Therefore, it is necessary that the State must consider this

aspect while framing the Rule and Regulations for settlement of exclusive

privilege through 'e-auction'. 67. Referring to clause (vi)(b) and clause (xiv) of the impugned

order, it is submitted that the intention of the Govt. is not clear from

clause (xiv) and as it appears, the small new intending bidder arranges

an amount equal to EMD to receive his licence. Thus, it is alleged that

attempt has been made to wipe out the small businessman from the fray

as his investment becomes doubled. For better appreciation, it is necessary to quote here clause (xiv) of the impugned order. Clause (xiv) contemplates that post physical scrutiny of original

documents, upon realization of advance consideration money as may be

determined by the Government from time to time and after adjustment

against deposited EMD, the highest evaluated responsive bidder shall be

confirmed with the settlement of the shop. He shall then put his

signature in the Register of Settlement and Register of Undertaking to lift

the monthly minimum guaranteed quantity as may be determined by the 57 Government from time to time and shall be then granted licence by the

Collector. There is no question of determination of consideration money

by the Government because on the basis of reserve price of the

consideration money, the bidding starts and the bid is finalized with the

highest bidder. Further the expression "after adjustment against deposited

EMD" also needs clarification as to whether the EMD has to be adjusted

against the highest consideration money or anything else ? On the other hand, clause (vi)(b) provides for furnishing of EMD

in the form of Fixed deposit receipt of Scheduled Bank/Kisan Vikash

Patra/Post Office Savings Bank Account/ National Savings Certificate/

Postal Office Time Deposit Account only having validity of at least 90

days from the date of publication of sale notice and duly pledged in

favour of the concerned District Collector and payable at the concerned

District. These aspects need clarification by the State Government. 68. The next challenge to the impugned notification is that clause

(xviii) of the notification dated 28.2.2013, which barred bidders of

doubtful solvency, having criminal antecedents, persons disqualified

under Rules 45 and 102A of Orissa Excise Rules, 1965 has been given a

go-by in the notification dated 5.4.2013 without any valid and cogent

reason. This aspect needs consideration by the State Government to

ensure that the disqualified fraudulent bidders are barred in taking part

in 'e-auction' process in public interest. 69. Petitioners have further urged that the Government has been

conferred with power under Section 89 (1) and (2) of the Act to make

Rules. Powers given to the Commissioner under Para (ii) of the impugned

order amount to sub-delegation of power by the Commissioner. Section 7

(2) (e) of the Act does not authorize the Government to give power of sub-

delegation of delegated power. This allegation of the petitioners are not correct. Under Section

7(2) (e) of the Act, the State Government may delegate to the Board, the

Commissioner of a Division, [Excise Commissioner or the Collector of a

district] all or any of the powers conferred upon the State Government by

or under this Act, except the power conferred under Section 89 to make

the Rules. Paragraph (ii) of the impugned order envisages that the

process of settlement of shop shall be conducted by a departmental

Excise Auction Committee chaired by the Excise Commissioner and

comprising 3 to 6 members appointed by him from time to time. The EAC

may be guided from time to time by a Core team of the Government

comprising officials from different Departments, i.e., Excise Department,

SPC, NIC, OMEGA. It is further provided that EAC shall be assisted by

the IT support staff comprising of computer trained officers as may be

provided by the Government from time to time. True construction of

para-(ii) of the order does not show that the Government has given power

of sub-delegation to the Commissioner. The Commissioner as the head of 59 the Committee is responsible to the Government for proper discharge of

the work entrusted to him. He can take assistance of other officials, but

the decision of the EAC headed by the Commissioner is always final.

Taking assistance to discharge the duty is not sub-delegation of the

delegated power. 70. It is further alleged that Para (iii) of the impugned order speaks

of issue of sale notice in Form-A inviting on line applications from

bidders for settlement of shop or group of shops at least 10 days before

the commencement of e-auction, but no form has been prescribed.

Moreover, the issue of sale notice as provided in para (iii) violates

provision of Section 22 of the Act and Rule 3 of the Privilege Rules. Proviso to Section 22 of the Act postulates that public notice

shall be given with the intention to grant any exclusive privilege under

that Section and that any objections made by any person residing within

the area affected shall be considered before an exclusive privilege is

granted. In the impugned order, no provision has been made for inviting

and considering objection of the person residing within the area affected.

This needs reconsideration by the opposite party State. 71. It is also urged that the bargaining power does not entitle the

State to impose any condition it desires. Placing reliance on the decision

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Krishnan Kakkanth Vs. Government of

Kerala and others , AIR 1997 SC 128, it is submitted that if the policy

decision is capricious or arbitrary and not informed by reason

whatsoever or it suffers from vice of discrimination or infringes any 60 statutes or provision of the Constitution the said Policy decision can be

struck down. There is no dispute over the above legal proposition settled by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court and that is the reason why we are examining

the validity of the impugned policy and the order. 72. The apprehension that appointment of associate for internet

use may ditch the bidders and misuse his ID at the instance of his

opponent/competitor has nothing to do with the validity of the impugned

order since in commercial world the owner himself is not doing all the

business activities but depends upon many associates in respect of

important works. Therefore, there is nothing wrong in the said provision. 73. The order is further challenged on the ground that Rule 31 of

the Rules, licence for retail vender intoxicants may be granted for one

year from 1st April of the year to the 31st March of the next year subject to

the condition provided thereunder. Sub-rule (6) of Rule 31 empowers the

Excise authority for grant of licence for any shorter period. In paragraph

22 of the Policy State Government has itself decided to extend the policy

for two months, i.e., for April and May, 2013. Therefore, settlement of

privilege through e-auction for the whole year 2013-14 is self-

contradictory and conflicting within itself. This needs clarification from the State specifying the exact

period for which the exclusive privilege shall be settled through e-

auction. 74. The other ground of challenge is that under the present policy

licence has been issued for two months, i.e., April and May, 2013. As a 61 result of this, the licensees would not be able to sell away MGQ within

the period of two months; but the petitioners would be forced to lift the

MGQ for the said two months on the enhanced rate. Under the Excise

Law, non-selling of certain quantity for a particular period is spread over

to the next month and in the process the vender would be able to reequip

the loss in the succeeding month(s) and by the end of the year the

licensee manages to sell out the entire quantity being lifted over the

entire year. In the current arrangement, the petitioners would suffer

irreparably and the loss cannot be reequipped and compensated by any

other means since the entire unsold quantity at the expiry of the licence

period of two months would be treated as illegal stock and the same

would be subject to destruction at the cost of the vendor as per excise

law. Thus, it is argued that the decision to grant licence for two months

without making any provision as to how the interest of the petitioners

shall be protected with regard to unsold MGQ is illegal and arbitrary. Under Sub-rule 6-A(5) of the Orissa Exclusive Privilege (Foreign

Liquor) Rules, 1989 (for short, ' Foreign Liquor Rules'), the left over stock

on expiry of the licence shall be forfeited to the government. In the peculiar circumstances, provisions should have been

made for transfer of the left-over stock to the incoming licensee who shall

take it towards his MGQ on payment of cost price and excise duty to the

outgoing licensee so that the licensee would be in a position to lift the

stock as per MGQ. This aspect also needs consideration by the State Government. 62 75. In essence, while upholding the maintainability of the writ

petition and policy decision of the Government dated 23.03.2013,

directions given for reconsideration of different aspects for the reasons

stated above are summarized below:- post physical scrutiny of the original documents and
 adjustment of deposited EMD; (vii) To make provision to bar bidders of doubtful solvency,
 having criminal antecedents, persons disqualified under 63 Rules 45 and 102A of Orissa Excise Rules, 1965, as has
 been provided in Clause (xviii) of Notification dated
 28.02.2013; (viii) Clause (iii) of the impugned order with regard to issue of
 sale notice in Form-A which violates provisions of Section
 22 of the Act and Rule 3 of the Privilege Rules and to
 make provision for inviting and considering objection of
 the persons residing within the area affected; (ix) Exact period for which exclusive privilege shall be settled
 through 'e-auction' for the excise year 2013-14 should be
 clarified as a part of the year 2013-14 has already been
 settled in favour of the petitioners; (x) Provision for transfer of left over stock to the incoming
 licensee who may take it towards his MGQ on payment of
 cost price and excise duty to the outgoing licensee so that
 licensee would be in a position to lift the stock as per
 MGQ for the extended license period. 77. In view of the above, we are of the opinion that the order dated

 5.4.2013 appears to be unreasonable and unsustainable in law for the

 reasons stated supra. It would be, therefore, desirable if the State

 Government addresses itself on the aforesaid aspects to take a fresh

 decision as early as practicable and till then existing arrangements shall

 continue. 78. With the aforesaid observations and directions, all the writ

 petitions are disposed of. ............................. B.N. Mahapatra,J.