By this judgment, this Court shall adjudicate the suit filed by
 plaintiff against the defendant seeking a decree of declaration.
 Before adjudicating upon the issues framed in the present suit, it
 is vital to first state the pleadings in the present suit concisely,
 which are as follows: 2. The facts in brief, relevant for the judgment and as stated in
 the plaint, are that the plaintiff was owner of land bearing
 Khasra No. 1311, 1375, 1379, 1440 and 1451 of his 1/3rd
 share along with the co-sharer Sh. Raja Ram and Ram
 Chander, all sons of late Sh. Deeg Ram, situated in Village
 Bhalswa, Near Jahangirpuri, Delhi and the same was acquired
 by the Award No. 33/78-79, dated 29.02.1978 total measuring
 (14-16). 3. It has been further averred that under the scheme of Large- Scale Acquisition Development and Disposal of Land Delhi

 Digitally
 1961, an Alternative plot was allotted by Delhi Development
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 4. That the plaintiff filed a suit for permanent injunction against
 the defendant, DDA, Delhi Administration and Union of India.
 In this other suit, the defendant filed a relinquishment deed of
 several persons including the plaintiff; that the plaintiff came
 to know about the said relinquishment deed when the
 defendant filed the written statement before the Court; and
 plaintiff obtained a copy of said relinquish deed from those
 proceedings. 5. It has been further averred that the plaintiff never
 relinquished his share in favor of the defendant. That the
 plaintiff only appointed the defendant as his power of attorney
 for the purpose of attending the office of competent authority
 to deal with the matter of alternative plot. That the defendant
 obtained the signature of plaintiff on the plain stamp paper in
 good faith on the pretext of filing the document in the office of
 DDA for the purpose of allotment of the plot in the name of
 plaintiff, as per his share. 6. It has been further averred that the plaintiff is the father of his
 5 children who are the legal successors of the plaintiff. That
 there arose no question to relinquish his share in the name of
 the defendant. That the signature of the plaintiff was obtained
 by way of fraud on the said relinquishment deed.
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit
 Date: Pleadings of the Defendant: - Raja Ram and Sh. Ram Chander were necessary parties to the
 suit and they were not added by the plaintiff; that Sh. Deeg
 Ram (father of plaintiff) also left two daughters namely Surati
 Devi and Shanti Devi, who are also necessary parties and they
 have also not been added as parties in the present suit. It was
 averred that the plaintiff intentionally and deliberately did not
 implead all the LRs of Sh. Ram Chander, Raja Ram and Sh.
 Deeg Ram since all of them relinquished their shares in favour
 of the defendant on 24.09.1992. 12. It was further averred that the suit of the plaintiff is without
 any cause of action since the plaintiff has no right, interest and
 claim after execution of relinquishment deed dated 24.09.1992
 in favor of the defendant. Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit
 Date: 13. That the plaintiff had not appeared before the Court with
 clean hands, has suppressed the material facts and filed this
 suit on the basis of false and fabricated facts. 14. It was also averred that the suit of the plaintiff is barred by
 law of limitation since that the present suit was filed on
 29.04.2002 while the plaintiff himself executed the
 relinquishment deed in favor of the defendant on 24.09.1992. 15. Lastly, several grounds pertaining to technical defects were
 also pleaded by the defendant. These are - the verification of
 plaint is defective; that the proper and requisite Court fees has
 not been affixed by the plaintiff; that this Court has no
 pecuniary jurisdiction to hear and try the present suit as the
 value of the property is more than Rs.25 Lakh; that the suit
 relates to agricultural land and falls within the purview of
 provisions of Delhi Land Reforms Act which clearly bars the
 jurisdiction of this Court; that the present suit and suit
 no.96/2000 cannot proceed simultaneously and present suit is
 liable to be stayed U/s 10 of CPC till disposal of suit
 no.96/2000. 16. On merits, it was submitted by the defendant that all the legal
 heirs of Sh. Deeg Ram were entitled to equal shares of his
 property; that Sh. Deeg Ram (father of Plaintiff) in his lifetime
 settled the matter and advised the plaintiff and his another son,
 Ram Chander and his two daughters to relinquish their share in
 favor of Sh. Raja Ram, father of the defendant. That Sh. Deeg
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 17. It is further averred that the plaintiff has not mentioned the
 Khasra number of the agricultural land in dispute and
 deliberately concealed this material fact from the Court. It is
 also averred that plaint is devoid of necessary particulars of the
 allotted plot, i.e., size of the plot, to whom it has been allotted,
 revenue state in which it was allotted and at what price the plot
 was allotted. That the defendant had spent lakhs of rupees in
 the process of acquisition, measurement of land, where plot in
 lieu of land should be awarded to the defendant. 18. It is also averred that the plaintiff relinquished his share
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit
 along with other legal heirs of Sh. Deeg Ram, of his own
 Lalit Kumar
 Date: 19. It was denied by the defendant that the plaintiff only
 appointed him as his Power of attorney for the purpose of
 attending the office of DDA and concerned authorities; it was
 also denied that the defendant obtained the signature of
 plaintiff on plain stamp paper by way of fraud. 20. It has been further submitted by the defendant that the
 plaintiff has not impleaded DDA and Delhi Administration as
 necessary parties to this suit. Digitally
 signed by Lalit
Lalit Kumar
 Date: 21. Replication was also filed on behalf of the plaintiff to the
 written statement of the defendant wherein the averments
 made in the written statement were denied and those made in
 the plaint were reiterated and reaffirmed. Issues: - 22. From the pleadings of the parties, following issues were
 framed vide order dated 20.05.2005: - Consolidation of Two Suits of Plaintiff 23. By order dated 18.01.2007, the present suit was consolidated
 with another suit filed by the plaintiff which bore the suit no.
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 24. The common and fundamental question which arose in both
 the suits was regarding the validity of Relinquishment Deed
 dated 24.09.1992. In both the cases, the plaintiff assailed the
 execution of said Relinquishment deed as fraudulent, whereas
 the defendant asserted its validity. Therefore, the facts and
 pleadings in both the cases shall be read conjointly. The
 question of validity of said Relinquishment deed shall be
 decided in the present suit in this judgment and the findings
 thereupon shall be adopted for the purpose of separate
 judgment in the main suit bearing number 1292/06, titled Jage
 Ram v. DDA & Ors. (hereinafter referred to in short as "main
 suit" or "other suit"). Plaintiff Evidence: - 25. The plaintiff expired during the pendency of the suit, before
 the stage of Plaintiff Evidence. Upon his death, his Legal
 Representatives ("LRs" in short) were substituted, who

Lalit by Digitally signed Lalit Kumar contested the case. In order to prove their case, the plaintiff
 Date: Defendant's Evidence: - 26. In defense evidence, the defendant examined himself as
 DW-2 (in the main suit) and tendered his evidence by way of
 Digitally

Lalit
 signed by
 Lalit Kumar
 Date: 27. DW-3 was Sh. Layak Ram, UDC in the office of Land and
 Building Department, Vikas Bhawan, New Delhi. This witness
 brought the original Relinquishment Deed dated 24.09.1992
 executed by Smt. Maya Devi and 11 other persons in favor of
 Sh. Naresh Kumar/defendant. A copy of the Relinquishment
 Deed was tallied, stated to be correct and exhibited as
 Ex.DW-3/1 (OSR). Analysis and Findings: - 28. This Court has heard the arguments from both parties and has
 carefully perused the record. The parties' respective pleadings
 and evidences tendered have been considered and the same are
 not being reproduced here in their entirety, for the sake of
 brevity. Before turning to the issue-wise findings, this court
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit
 Date: i. It is the case of the plaintiff (as stated in paragraph
 no.2 of the plaint) that before the filing of the present
 suit, an alternative plot was already allotted by the
 DDA in favour of the defendant. However, the
 plaintiff did not mention any details, such as, when
 the plot was allotted, what was the property/khasra
 number, location, description or site plan related to
 the allotted plot, in his plaint. ii. In a gist, it is the case of the plaintiff that he is a
 co-sharer in this alternative plot and the defendant got
 the allotment of this alternative plot based solely on
 the Relinquishment Deed, which was executed by the
 plaintiff after a fraud was played on him by the
 defendant. Therefore, the plaintiff has challenged the
 Relinquishment deed in the present suit and sought it
 to be declared null and void. iii. The declaration of Relinquishment Deed as null &
 void will directly vitiate the allotment of the
 alternative plot in favor of Defendant and the
 alternative plot will have to be allotted afresh after
 consideration of the rights of all the legal heirs of the
 Digitally
 signed by Lalit
Lalit
 original 3 co-sharers (i.e., 3 sons of the original
 Kumar
 Date: Suit No.607478/2016 Jage Ram Vs. Naresh Kumar Page-14/36 -15- in the main suit; he has only filed the main suit to
 establish his rights/title on his rightful share in the suit
 property. Thus, seeking a partition of alternative plot
 and possession of plaintiff's share become second and
 third consequential reliefs to the relief of declaration.
 However, the plaintiff has omitted to seek these
 consequential reliefs of partition and possession,
 despite being able to do so, and has filed the present
 suit merely seeking declaration of the Relinquishment
 Deed as null & void. Therefore, plaintiff's case is
 again hit by the bar of proviso to S. 34 , SRA. v. In view of above, the suit of plaintiff is liable to be
 dismissed as not maintainable under S.34 , SRA. 29. Now, this court shall proceed to give its findings on the
 issues framed in the present case. 30. Issue No. 1 is - "Whether the suit is bad for non-joinder of
 parties? OPD". The onus to prove this issue was on the
 defendant. The defendant has pleaded that all the legal heirs of
 Late Shri Raja Ram and Ram Chander (co-sharers with
 plaintiff in the land before acquisition) along with the two
 daughters of Sh. Deeg Ram (original owner/ancestor and
 father of Plaintiff) namely Surati Devi and Shanti Devi are
 also necessary parties to the present suit. This plea has been
 simply denied by the plaintiff in his replication, without
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: Suit No.607478/2016 Jage Ram Vs. Naresh Kumar Page-17/36 -18- decree would affect the rights of these 11 other
 executors/releasors. Even in spite of the defendant's
 objection, the plaintiff has chosen not to implead these
 11 other executors/releasors either as plaintiffs or as
 defendants. v. Accordingly, no effective decree of declaration can
 be passed in favour of the plaintiff in this case. The
 defendant has discharged his onus of proving this
 issue. Thus, the suit of the plaintiff is liable to be
 dismissed on account of non-joinder of necessary
 parties, as well. vi. Therefore, issue no. 1 is decided in favour of the
 defendant and against the plaintiff. 31. The issue no. 2 is - "Whether the suit is barred by limitation?
 OPD". The onus to prove this issue was also on the defendant.
 The defendant has taken the plea that the suit of the plaintiff is
 barred by the law of limitation since it was filed on 29.04.2002
 whereas the plaintiff himself executed the relinquishment deed
 in favour of the defendant on 24.09.1992. It was argued that
 the period of limitation of 3 years' started from the date of
 execution of relinquishment deed on 24.09.1992 and therefore,
 the suit is time barred; it was also argued that the plaintiff has
 neither sought condonation of delay nor explained the delay
 caused in filing of present suit. This plea of defendant was also
 only simply denied by the plaintiff in his replication, without
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: ii. It is a matter of record that the Relinquishment
 Deed dated 24.09.1992 is a registered document. It
 has been duly proved by the defendant by
 summoning the record from the office of Land and
 Building Department, Vikas Bhawan. DW3/Sh.
 Layak Ram, UDC brought the original
 Relinquishment Deed dated 24.09.1992 and tallied
 the same with the copy placed on record and stated
 that the copy is correct. The copy of Relinquishment
 Deed was exhibited as Ex. DW-3/1 (OSR). iii. The law is well settled that there is a
 presumption in law that a registered document has
 been validly executed. The Hon'ble Supreme Court Digitally signed Lalit by Lalit Kumar
 Date: Suit No.607478/2016 Jage Ram Vs. Naresh Kumar Page-21/36 -22- 32. Issue no. 3 is - "Whether the plaintiff has not approached the
 Court with clean hands and has suppressed the material facts?
 OPD". Onus to prove was on the defendant. The only
 pleadings made by the defendant in support of this issue are
 that firstly, the plaintiff concealed the fact that he had already
 filed civil suit no. 96/2000 on 06.03.2000 for permanent
 injunction against the defendant and DDA; and secondly, that
 the suit related to agricultural land; and falls within the
 purview of the provisions of Delhi Land Reforms Act , which
 clearly bar the jurisdiction of a Civil Court. i. However, a complete reading of the plaint shows that the
 plaintiff has in fact mentioned in paragraph 3 of his plaint
 about the fact of filing and pendency of the main suit. ii. The submission regarding suit being related to
 agricultural land, applicability of Delhi Land Reforms, Act and bar on the jurisdiction of the Civil Court, appears to be
 non-serious and without merit. Present suit is not
 pertaining to any land or immovable property, it is a suit
 seeking declaration of Relinquishment Deed as null and
 void. Further, no detailed submissions were made by the
 defendant side to show applicability of Delhi Land
 Reforms Act ; and how the present suit falls under
 Schedule I of the said act to bar the jurisdiction of the Civil
 Court. Prima facie, the Delhi Land Reforms Act is not
 Digitally
 signed by
 applicable to the facts of the present case.
Lalit Lalit
 Date: 33. The next two issues i.e., issue no. 4 and issue no. 5 are the
 main crux of the present suit. These two issues shall be
 discussed together since they are pertaining to the
 relinquishment deed and are connected to each other in the
 way that a decision on one issue will automatically decide the
 other issue. Issue no. 4 is "Whether the relinquishment deed
 dated 24.09.92 was got signed [sic] by the defendant from
 plaintiff by fraud, if so, its effect? OPP". Issue no. 5 is
 "Whether there is any validly executed relinquishment deed
 dated 24.09.1992, in favour of the defendant, if so, its effect?
 OPD". The onus of proof for issue no. 4 is on the plaintiff and
 that for issue no. 5 is on the defendant. Thus, it was for the
 plaintiff to prove that fraud was played by the defendant in
 getting signatures of the plaintiff on the Relinquishment Deed;
 and it was for the defendant to prove that the Relinquishment
 Deed was validly executed. i. On these issues, the case of the plaintiff is that the
 defendant obtained the signature of plaintiff on the plain
 stamp paper by fraud, on the pretext to file the same in the
 office of DDA for the purpose of allotment of the plot in
 the name of the plaintiff of his share. The plaintiff does not
 deny either his signature or thumb impression present on
 Digitally
 signed by
 the relinquishment deed. The plaintiff has taken this
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: (emphasis supplied). Further, again, in paragraph number
 11, the plaintiff has averred that "the plaintiff cannot read
 & write in English and was not aware that the defendant
 getting his signature on Relinquishment Deed by fraud" iv. From the discussion in three preceding paragraphs, it is
 clear that the plaintiff's justification that he signed the
 "plain stamp papers" is unreliable and unsubstantiated. It is
 further evident that he had in fact signed a complete
 document. v. It is again pertinent to mention here that the plaintiff
 expired during the pendency of the suit, before the stage of
 Digitally
 signed by
 Plaintiff Evidence. The witnesses produced by the LRs of
Lalit Lalit Kumar

 plaintiff do not support the case of the plaintiff to prove
 Date: vi. PW-2 was Om Prakash, s/o Ram Chander, was also one
 of the 12 executors/releasors who had executed the
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit
Kumar
 Lalit Kumar
 Date: 34. The Relinquishment Deed dated 24.09.1992 is a registered
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar

Kumar
 Date: 35. Further, it is also well settled that to prove the fraud, "the
 required standard of proof is extremely high and is equivalent
 to evidence required to prove a criminal case, i.e. proved
 beyond reasonable doubt. Order VI Rule 4, CPC provides that
 fraud has to be pleaded by giving particulars of the fraud. The
 fraud cannot be assumed by the Court only on the basis of
 inferences. The fraud cannot be inferred by the Courts merely
 on the basis of suspicion. A document registered in accordance
 with the Registration Act, 1908 has presumption of
 correctness. A higher degree of presumption is available to a
 registered document. The Courts cannot infer/assume fraud
 howsoever strong the suspicion may be, in absence of concrete
 and cogent evidence in support thereof".5 36. In the present case, the plaintiff has neither led any concrete
 or cogent evidence to prove fraud, nor produced any oral or
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: +0530

 Suit No.607478/2016 Jage Ram Vs. Naresh Kumar Page-29/36 -30- documentary evidence to rebut the presumption regarding the
 validity of the registered Relinquishment Deed. Thus, the
 plaintiff has not been able to establish that the execution of the
 Relinquishment Deed was fraudulent. Consequently, it appears
 that his plea was merely an afterthought, devised solely to
 avoid the Relinquishment Deed. 37. The pleas of the plaintiff that he signed on the
 Relinquishment Deed on the pretext of being a 'Power of
 Attorney'; or that he could not read & write English and did
 not know that the defendant was getting his signatures on the
 relinquishment deed are also untenable in law. It is a settled
 position that every executant of a document is obliged to read
 such document before signing it and is bound by the terms and
 conditions of the said document. This obligation is to be
 discharged by the executant more diligently when such
 document is being registered and has the effect of transferring
 right, title and interest of the executant in favour of the other
 party. The Courts are cautious while entertaining challenges to
 registered documents at the behest of the executant as the
 impact of the registered documents affects third parties, who
 transact relying upon the same. The Court would be unwilling
 to permit an executant to resile from the binding nature of a
 Digitally
 signed by Lalit
Lalit Kumar
 Date: Suit No.607478/2016 Jage Ram Vs. Naresh Kumar Page-30/36 -31- 38. As per S.114 , illustration (e), Indian Evidence Act , there is a
 presumption that official acts have been regularly performed.
 Since the Relinquishment Deed is a registered document, there
 is a presumption that at the time of registration, Sections 32 & 34 of the Indian Registration Act, were complied with. Thus,
 there is a presumption that at the time of the execution of the
 Relinquishment Deed, the plaintiff (and all the other
 executants) appeared in person before the Registrar, affirmed
 before the Registrar that they had signed the documents and
 only after complying with such statutory requirements, the
 Relinquishment Deed was registered. There is no explanation
 from the Plaintiff side about how the Relinquishment Deed
 came to be registered. Further, there is no evidence to rebut
 this presumption, either. Therefore, this further bolsters the
 presumption in favour of validity of the Relinquishment Deed
 dated 24.09.1992 (Ex. PW-3/1). 39. In view of the above discussion, the issue no. 4 is decided
 against the Plaintiff and in favour of the Defendant.
 Consequently, the issue no. 5 is decided in favour of the
 defendant and against the plaintiff. 40. The final issue, i.e., the issue no. 6 is "Whether the plaintiff is
 entitled for decree of declaration as prayed? OPP" . The onus
 of proving this issue was on the plaintiff. In view of the
 discussion above and decisions on the issues no. 1 to 5, the

 Digitally
 plaintiff has miserably failed to discharge the burden cast upon
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar

Kumar
 Date: 41. Five out of Six issues have been decided against the plaintiff. The decision on issue no. 3 in favour of the plaintiff is
 inconsequential for the purpose of the present suit. The suit of
 the plaintiff is dismissed. Cost: - 42. It is evident that the present suit, instituted by the plaintiff,
 was devoid of any cause of action from its very inception.
 Despite this, the plaintiff side has pursued this litigation for
 more than 23 years. The original plaintiff had expired in 2003
 and his LRs were substituted thereafter. The LRs have also
 pursued this case for over two decades. The record
 demonstrates that the plaintiff had approached this Court after
 a lapse of more than 10 years from the date on which his
 alleged cause of action had arisen. The suit was thus
 hopelessly barred by limitation since the day it was filed. This
 substantial delay further shows that the claim of fraud in the
 execution of the Relinquishment Deed dated 24.09.1992 was a
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 43. Civil Courts cannot be permitted to be reduced to mere
 forums for speculative claims, enabling unscrupulous litigants
 to take a chance and misuse the process of law and escape
 accountability when their suits fail. Frivolous litigation, such
 as the present, has the effect of choking the Courts, delaying
 justice to bona fide litigants, and undermining public
 confidence in the efficacy of the judicial process. It is therefore
 necessary for this Court to take a stern view in order to deter
 similar meritless, frivolous and uncalled-for litigation in the
 future. 44. In this regard, this Court is emboldened by the
 Digitally
 signed by
 pronouncements of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India as
Lalit Lalit
 Date: 17:14:18
 +0530

 9 (2010) 8 SCC 1. 10 2012 (5) SCC 370. Suit No.607478/2016 Jage Ram Vs. Naresh Kumar Page-34/36 -35- in the Ramrameshwari Devi v. Nirmala Devi (supra)
 judgement qua imposition of actual, realistic or proper costs
 after observing that false claims and defences in real estate
 litigation are rampant due to escalating property values and
 delays in adjudication; unscrupulous litigants often prolong
 such cases to pressure the other side into costly settlements;
 and adopting a pragmatic approach can help curb this problem
 significantly. Lastly, this Court is also guided by the observations in
 paragraph no.19(ii) of order dated 08.01.2018 of Hon'ble High
 Court of Delhi in Praveen Saini v. Reetu Kapur & Anr.11 ,
 wherein the Hon'ble Court has differentiated between the
 compensatory costs awarded U/Ss. 35 and 35A, CPC and the
 costs imposed on a litigant for filing a false litigation, abusing
 the process of law and wasting judicial time. The Hon'ble
 Court has observed that - 11 Order dated 8th January, 2018 in RFA No. 21/2018. Suit No.607478/2016 Jage Ram Vs. Naresh Kumar Page-35/36 -36- the inherent powers of this Court." (emphasis
 supplied) 45. In view of above mentioned circumstances and legal
 pronouncements, this Court is of the considered view that
 imposition of exemplary costs is justified. Accordingly, in
 exercise of discretion under S.35 and 35A , CPC as well as the
 inherent power vested in this court under S.151 , CPC, the
 plaintiff side is burdened with a cost of Rs. 1,00,000/- (Rupees
 One Lakh only), to be paid to the defendant side. The Legal
 Representatives of the plaintiff/Sh. Jage Ram shall be liable to
 pay this cost to the Legal Representatives of the defendant/Sh.
 Naresh Kumar, within 1 month from the date of this
 judgement. This cost is not only compensatory in nature but is
 also intended to deter future frivolous, vexatious and time-
 barred litigations that waste the judicial time and abuse the
 process of law. 46. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 47. File be consigned to Record Room after compliance. Lalit by Lalit Kumar
 Date: