1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) No. 828 of 2021
 Reserved on: 25th May, 2021. . Date of Decision: 31st May, 2021. A foreign national, a holder of Passport issued by Nigeria, who is

 incarcerating since November 7, 2020, in connection with the FIR mentioned above,
 has come up before this Court under Section 439 of CrPC, seeking bail. 2. A perusal of the petition reveals that the petitioner straightaway filed the bail
 petition before High Court, which is permissible given the decision of a three Judges
 Bench of HP High Court, in Mohan Lal v Prem Chand , AIR 1980 HP 36, (Para 9 & 15), wherein the Full bench holds that a person can directly apply for an anticipatory
 bail or regular bail to the High Court without first invoking the jurisdiction of the
 Sessions Judge. 3. The bail petition is silent about criminal history, however, Mr. Vinod Gupta,
 Learned Counsel for the bail petitioner states, on instructions, that the petitioner has 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? no criminal past relating to the offences prescribing sentence of seven years and
 more, or when on conviction, the sentence imposed was more than three years. The
 status report also does not mention any criminal past of the accused. . 4. Briefly, the allegations against the petitioner are that on 2 nd October, 2019, a
 lady aged about 64 years informed SHO, Police Station, Palampur, about the online
 fraud of Rs.46,47,000/-. She stated that she made friendship through internet with

 Jamie Ibrahim, who gained her trust and confidence. After that she transacted an
 amount of Rs.39,47,000/- to different accounts. Subsequently, under the pretext of
 paying custom duty she was duped to the extent of Rs.7,00,000/-. In all the total

 fraud amounted to Rs. 46, 47,000/-. Based on these allegations, the Police registered
 the FIR mentioned above. During investigation, the police traced Roja Maliyana.
 During search of the house, the police recovered lot of electronic equipments,

 laptops, pan-drives, ATM Cards etc. Upon arrest Roja Maliyana, disclosed that all

 those transactions were done under the instructions of one person named William
 Prince Ikechuwu, petitioner herein. After that the police arrested William Prince
 Ikechuwu on 7th November, 2020. 5. Learned Counsel for the petitioner contends that incarceration before the proof
 of guilt would cause grave injustice to the petitioner and family. 6. On the contrary, the contention on behalf of the State is that if this Court is
 inclined to grant bail, then such a bond must be subject to very stringent conditions. 7. The possibility of the accused influencing the investigation, tampering with
 evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken

 care of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions. In Sushila Aggarwal,
 (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Constitutional Bench held that unusually, subject to the
 evidence produced, the Courts can impose restrictive conditions.
 REASONING: 8. The purpose for which the complainant had transferred amount of
 Rs.39,47,000/- is not disclosed. Subsequent transfer of Rs.7,00,000/- for custom
 duty of the car is also not supported with the name and brand of the Car and from
 which country, it was being imported. 9. In the present case, the maximum sentence imposable for the offences
 mentioned in FIR attracts the application of the directions passed in Arnesh Kumar ::: Downloaded on - 31/05/2021 20:12:53 :::HCHP 3 v. State of Bihar , (2014) 8 SCC 273, (Para 13), wherein Hon'ble Supreme Court
 directed all the State Governments to instruct its police officers not to arrest
 automatically when the offence is punishable with imprisonment for a term which

 . may be less than seven years or which may extend to seven years; whether with or

 without fine. 10. The petitioner is in custody since 7th November 2020. The maximum sentence

 prescribed in the offences mentioned in FIR would not justify further custody. An
 analysis of entire evidence does not justify further incarceration of the accused, nor is
 going to achieve any significant purpose. Without commenting on the merits of the
 case, the stage of the investigation and the period of incarceration already undergone

 would make out a case for bail. In the facts and circumstances peculiar to this case,
 the petitioner makes out a case for release on bail. 11. In Shokhista v. State , 2005 Law Suit (Del) 1316, Delhi High Court observed, 5. ...The accused is a foreign national and is not able to furnish

 a local surety. The same does not debar her from being admitted
 to bail. The provision of local surety is nowhere mentioned in
 the Code of Criminal Procedure and surety can be from any part
 of the country or without. In the present case, since the accused

 is a foreign national and is facing investigation under Sections 4 , 5 and 8 of the I. T. P. Act and in view of the fact that the
 Petitioner is ready and willing to make a deposit in cash in lieu
 of the surety in addition to a personal bond, I am of the opinion

 that the ends of justice would be met in permitting her to do so.
 Consequently, I admit the Petitioner to bail on her furnishing a
 personal bond in the sum of Rs. 20,000/- and a cash deposit of

 the like amount in lieu of the surety to the satisfaction of the
 Trial Court. The Petitioner shall not leave the country without
 prior permission of the trial court and shall deposit her pass-port

 with the trial court. 12. Given the above reasoning, the Court is granting bail to the petitioner, subject
 to strict terms and conditions, which shall be over and above and irrespective of the
 contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 13. In Manish Lal Shrivastava v State of Himachal Pradesh, CrMPM No. 1734
 of 2020, after analysing judicial precedents, this Court observed that any Court
 granting bail with sureties should give a choice to the accused to either furnish surety
 bonds or give a fixed deposit, with a further option to switch over to another. 14. The petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR mentioned above, subject to
 his furnishing a personal bond of Rs. Ten thousand (INR 10,000/-), and shall furnish ::: Downloaded on - 31/05/2021 20:12:53 :::HCHP 4 two sureties of Rs. Twenty-five thousand only (INR 25,000/-), to the satisfaction of
 the Judicial Magistrate having the jurisdiction over the Police Station conducting the
 investigation, and in case of non-availability, any Ilaqa Magistrate. Before accepting

 . the sureties, the concerned Magistrate must satisfy that in case the accused fails to

 appear in Court, then such sureties are capable to produce the accused before the
 Court, keeping in mind the Jurisprudence behind the sureties, which is to secure the

 presence of the accused. 15. In the alternative, the petitioner may furnish aforesaid personal bond and
 fixed deposit(s) for Rs. Ten thousand (INR 10,000/-), made in favour of Chief
 Judicial Magistrate, Kangra, District Kangra, H.P., a) Such Fixed deposits may be made from any of the banks where the stake
 of the State is more than 50%, or any of the stable private banks, e.g., Bank of
 America, Chase, HSBC, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, etc.,

 with the clause of automatic renewal of principal, and liberty of the interest

 reverting to the linked account. b) Such a fixed deposit need not necessarily be made from the account of
 the petitioner and need not be a single fixed deposit. c) If such a fixed deposit is made in physical form, i.e., on paper, then the
 original receipt shall be handed over to the concerned Court. d) If made online, then its printout, attested by any Advocate, and if
 possible, countersigned by the accused, shall be filed, and the depositor shall

 get the online liquidation disabled. e) The petitioner or his Advocate shall inform at the earliest to the

 concerned branch of the bank, that it has been tendered as surety. Such
 information be sent either by e-mail or by post/courier, about the fixed deposit,
 whether made on paper or in any other mode, along with its number as well as
 FIR number. f) After that, the petitioner shall hand over such proof along with
 endorsement to the concerned Court. g) It shall be total discretion of the petitioner to choose between surety
 bonds and fixed deposits. It shall also be open for the petitioner to apply for
 substitution of fixed deposit with surety bonds and vice-versa. h) Subject to the proceedings under S. 446 CrPC, if any, the entire amount ::: Downloaded on - 31/05/2021 20:12:53 :::HCHP 5 of fixed deposit along with interest credited, if any, shall be endorsed/returned
 to the depositor(s). Such Court shall have a lien over the deposits up to the
 expiry of the period mentioned under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, or until discharged

 . by substitution as the case may be. 16. The furnishing of the personal bonds shall be deemed acceptance of the
 following and all other stipulations, terms, and conditions of this bail order: Whenever the investigation occurs within the police premises, the petitioner
 shall not be called before 8 AM and shall be let off before 5 PM, and shall not
 be subjected to third-degree, indecent language, inhuman treatment, etc. f) In addition to standard modes of processing service of summons, the
 concerned Court may serve or inform the accused about the issuance of
 summons, bailable and non-bailable warrants the accused through E-Mail (if

 any), and any instant messaging service such as WhatsApp, etc. (if any). [Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Re Cognizance for Extension of
 Limitation, Suo Moto Writ Petition (C) No. 3/2020, I.A. No. 48461/2020- July
 10, 2020]: 17. The petitioner shall neither stare, stalk, make any gestures, remarks, call,
 contact, message the victim, either physically, or through phone call or any
 other social media, nor roam around the victim's home. 18. During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner repeats or commits any offence
 where the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates any condition as
 stipulated in this order, it shall always be permissible to the respondent to apply for ::: Downloaded on - 31/05/2021 20:12:53 :::HCHP 7 cancellation of this bail. It shall further be open for any investigating agency to bring
 it to the notice of the Court seized of the subsequent application that the accused was
 earlier cautioned not to indulge in criminal activities. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall

 . continue to remain in force throughout the trial and after that in terms of Section 437-

 A of the CrPC. 19. In case of non-appearance, then irrespective of the contents of the bail bonds,

 the petitioner undertakes to pay all the expenditure (only the principal amount
 without interest) that the Government(s) might incur to produce him before such
 Court, provided such amount exceeds the amount recoverable after forfeiture of the
 bail bonds, and also subject to the provisions of Sections 446 & 446-A of CrPC. The

 petitioner's failure to reimburse shall entitle the trial Court to order the transfer of
 money from the petitioner's bank account(s). However, this recovery is subject to the
 condition that the expenditure incurred must be spent to trace the petitioner alone,

 and it relates to the exercise undertaken solely to arrest the petitioner in that FIR, and

 that voyage was not for any other purpose/function what so ever. 20. Any Advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose presence the
 petitioner puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions of this bail

 order, in vernacular and if not feasible, in Hindi. 21. In case the petitioner finds the bail condition(s) as violating fundamental,

 human, or other rights, or causing difficulty due to any situation, then for
 modification of such term(s), the petitioner may file a reasoned application before

 this Court, and after taking cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the
 trial Court, as the case may be, and such Court shall also be competent to modify or

 delete any condition. 22. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the rights of the Police or
 the investigating agency from further investigation per law. 23. In Stephen Chidubem v State of Himachal Pradesh, CrMP(M) No. 39 of
 2020, this Court observed,
 [27]. Although the Court has granted bail in favour of accused,
 still neither the issue comes to an end, nor do the terms of
 justice. In the interest of equity and fair play, the matter needs
 further consideration. Given the following reasoning, this Court
 is requesting the Trial Court to expedite the trial. [28]. Every visitor to our country comes for a specific purpose
 and for a limited time. However, if during the period of her stay, ::: Downloaded on - 31/05/2021 20:12:53 :::HCHP 8 they get arraigned as an accused in a criminal case, then she gets
 stuck up here. It may be traumatic to her, and to her education,
 family, friends, business, and n number of things, which an
 ordinary human being cannot even imagine. The answer lies in

 . the speedy disposal of cases of foreign nationals, whether they

 are in custody or on bail. [29]. Learned Additional Advocate General, submits that a few
 Foreign Nationals, while in India, deal in substance trade.
 [30]. The solution to this lies not in denying bail. It lies in

 verifying the antecedents of these types of suspects, before
 approving or granting Visa, and once accused in substance
 abuse, then revoking the Visa. Synergy of law with technology
 is the next big thing. 24. Given this, the Court requests the concerned Courts to expedite the trial. 25. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
 merits of the case, nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 26. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court believes that the

 accused shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 27. There would be no need for a certified copy of this order for furnishing bonds.
 Any Advocate for the petitioner can download this order along with the case status
 from the official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. In case the

 attesting officer or the Court wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can also
 verify its authenticity and may download and use the downloaded copy for attesting
 bonds. The petition stands allowed in the terms mentioned above. Copy Dasti. (Anoop Chitkara),
 Judge. May 31, 2021 (ps).