Date : 09-08-2023 1. Heard Mr. A Goyal, learned counsel for the petitioner. Also
 heard Mr. P Borthakur, learned Addl. PP, Assam appearing for
 respondent No.1, Mr. C.S. Ray for respondent Nos.2 and 3 and Mr. M
 Sarma for respondent No.4. 2. The present application is filed under section 482 Cr.P.C., 1973
 for setting aside and quashing an FIR which was registered as
 Bharalumukh PS Case No.1009/2021 under section 406 / 420 / 506 IPC
 1860, corresponding to GR Case No.19546/2021. 3. During the pendency of the present petition, the investigating
 authority filed charge sheet and such charge sheet was brought on
 record by way of an additional affidavit. Relying on the judgment of
 the hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Anand Kr. Mohatta and
 Page No.# 3/9 another Vs. State (NCT of Delhi), Department of Home and
Another reported in (2019) 11 SCC 706. Such prayer was allowed by
this court under its order dated 31.03.2023. 4. The principle of exercise of power under section 482Cr.P.C. to
quash FIR and charge sheet on the basis of different pronouncement
of the hon'ble apex court can be summarized in the following manner. I. When the allegations made in the FIR or in a
 complaint is taken at their face value and accepted, it does
 not prima facie constitute any offence or do not make out a
 case against the accused. The court is to see that if the
 complaint/FIR is taken at their face value, no cognizable
 offence is made out. II. Such power can also be exercised when the
 facts narrated are absurd and inherently improbable, or
 manifestly attended with malafide or with an ulterior motive. III. However, while exercising its power the court
 is not embark upon an enquiry as to the reliability or
 genuineness of the allegation made in the FIR/complaint. IV. It is also well settled that such power is to be
 sparingly exercised and in exceptional cases, so as to avoid
 miscarriage of justice and also in a situation where there is
 abuse of process of the court. wide that while exercising such extra ordinary power the court
 must be cautious and need to be very diligent. 5. Now let this court consider the factum of the present
challenge based on the principles of the aforesaid law. For proper
appreciation of the issue in hand the FIR is quoted herein below: 6. From the aforesaid FIR the following facts can be
ascertained

 I. That there was an agreement between the
 informant and the accused for execution of some contract

 II. In terms of the said contract the accused are
 Page No.# 7/9

 required to pay some money to the informant however,
 instead of giving the said money to the informant, the
 accused transferred the same to some other account and
 certain amount are due from the accused and the accused
 has not paid the same. III. The FIR further discloses that the accused had
 issued some cheques to honour the aforesaid due, however,
 such cheques have not been deposited by the informant as
 the accused intimated the informant that if the cheques
 were presented he will never pay the money to the
 informant. IV. It is the further case as reflected in the FIR that the
 FIR has been lodged for the reason that after trying their
 level best, the informants have failed to get their money
 back including their share of profit and agreed
 compensation. 7. Section 405 IPC defines the criminal breach of trust. A reading of
the aforesaid provision of law, the essential ingredients of criminal
breach of trust can be summarized as below: 8. In the case of R K Dalmia Vs Delhi Administration reported in
1963 1 SCR 253, the Hon'ble Apex Court held that the definition as
given under Section 405 Cr.P.C. does not restrict the property to be
movable or immovable one and the property used in the Cr.P.C . is
having a much wider sense than expression movable property. Accordingly, the Hon'ble Apex Court in RK Dalmia (supra)
concluded that there is no good reason to restrict the meaning of
word 'property' to movable property only when it is used without any
qualification under Section 405 IPC. 9. Section 415 IPC defines cheating. The essential ingredients of
cheating are that deception of any person, fraudulent and dishonest
inducement with intent to deliver any property or to have consent to
retain any property and also an intention whereby an inducement is
made to a person to do or omit to do anything which he would not or
omit if he was so deceived. 10. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Hriday Ranjan Prasad
Verma Vs. State of Bihar and Anr. reported in 2000 4 SCC 168
clarified that there is a very fine line while making a distinction
between mere breach of contract and cheating, which is criminal one
and breach of contract. Law is by now well settled that breach of
contract cannot give rise to criminal prosecution of cheating until and
unless the fraudulent or dishonest intention of cheating is made out in
the complaint itself. Page No.# 9/9 11. From the allegations made in the FIR in the considered opinion of
 this court even are taken at their face value and accepted in entirety,
 do not make out any prima facie case to constitute an offence under section 406 / 420 / 506 IPC rather the matter is totally civil in nature and
 it is nothing but a claim of share of profit arising out of an written
 agreement between the informant and the accused and relates to
 compensation and payment of share of profit and breach of terms of
 contract. Further this court is unable to find out any statement or
 whisper, which shows that the accused was having an initially
 deception in mind to cheat the informant at the stage of entering into
 the contract inasmuch as there is nothing in the FIR regarding
 criminal intimidation. 12. Therefore, in view of the aforesaid, this court finds that no case
 under Section 406 / 420 / 506 IPC is made out on a bare reading of the
 FIR. 13. In view of the aforesaid the present petition stands allowed by
 setting aside and quashing the FIR which was registered as
 Bharalumukh PS Case No.1009/2021 under section 406 / 420 / 506 IPC
 1860, corresponding to GR Case No.19546/2021. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant