This petition has been filed by the petitioner under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India, seeking the following reliefs:- 02. The grievance of the petitioner is that the petitioner is self employed and
 is running his own business. He is having account at Axis Bank and his account
 has been freezed at the instance of respondents No.2 and 3, the Additional Deputy
 Commissioner of Police, Crime Branch, Indore and Additional Superintendent of Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHILPA NAAGDEVE Signing time: 09-Apr-25 10:14:18 AM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:9435

 2 WP-11844-2025
 Police, Crime Branch, Indore as has been informed to the petitioner by the Bank.
 The account of the petitioner has been freeezed can also be demonstrated by the
 statement of account, which has been filed by the petitioner, on which the Bank
 authorities have endorsed that the account has been freezed. 03. Counsel for the petitioner has submitted that according to the
 information received, there has been some transaction in the bank account of the
 petitioner at the instance of the complainant in the case which according to
 respondents No.2 and 3 is of dubious nature, which has led to freezing of the
 petitioner's bank account. 04. Counsel has also drawn the attention of this Court to an order passed in
 an identical case, in the case of Gautam Bhandari and Others Vs. State Bank of
 India and Others passed in W.P. No.30822/2024 dated 25.10.2024 wherein also,
 in an identical case, this Court had granted a relief to the petitioner that the amount
 which is disputed may be kept in a fixed deposit by the bank, with further
 direction that the competent Judicial Magistrate shall proceed in accordance with
 law under Section 102 of Cr.P.C.. Thus, it is submitted that the petitioner also
 agrees that the amount relating to questionable transaction may be kept in a fixed
 deposit and the petitioner may be allowed to operate his account. 05. Heard. On due consideration of submissions and on perusal of the
 documents filed on record, this Court finds the prayer reasonable and innocuous,
 as no prejudice would be caused either to the Bank or to the complainant, if the
 disputed amount is kept in fixed deposit, as has been ordered by this Court in the
 case of Gautam Bhandari (Supra) . Thus maintaining the parity, this Court is
 inclined to allow the present petition as well. 06. So far as the order passed by this Court in the case of Gautam Bhandari
 (Supra) is concerned, the same reads as under:- 2. The grievance of the petitioners is that their accounts have been freezed on
 account of some fraudulent activity. 3. Counsel for the petitioners has submitted that the petitioners are medical
 students, studying in fourth semester in Aurobindo College, Indore and were
 also trading in Crypto currency, in which the aforesaid transactions were made
 in their accounts. It is submitted that the petitioners may be allowed to operate
 their accounts, as the disputed entries are already on hold. 4. Counsel for the respondent No.1/ SBI has submitted that no case for
 interference is made out, however, it is not denied that on earlier occasions, this
 Court had passed various orders and one such order was passed in the case of
 Malcolm Murayis and Others Vs. State Bank of India and Others, W.P.
 No.1100/2024 dated 26.04.2024. 5. Heard. On due consideration of submissions and on perusal of the documents
 filed on record, it is found that so far as the order passed in the case of Malcolm
 Murayis (Supra) is concerned, it has been observed as under:- (Emphasis Supplied) 6. On due consideration of the reliefs sought by the petitioners, as also the
 aforesaid order, this Court is inclined to dispose of this petition with a direction
 to the respondents/Bank to keep the disputed amount as informed to them by
 various cyber crime agencies, in fixed deposits, which shall be allowed to be
 liquidated only after the orders are passed by the competent Judicial Magistrate
 within three months' time as it is expected from the cybercrime police to
 proceed in accordance with law under Section 102 of Cr.P.C., or any other law
 on which they are relying upon, failing which the amount so kept in FDs may
 also be allowed to be withdrawn by the petitioners under intimation to the
 cybercrime agencies. 7. With the aforesaid direction, the petition stands disposed of." 07. Accordingly, the present petition stands allowed with a direction to the
 respondent No.4/Bank to keep the disputed amount as informed to it by
 cybercrime agency (respondents No.2 and 3), in a fixed deposit, which shall be
 allowed to be liquidated only after the order is passed by the competent Judicial
 Magistrate within three months' time as it is expected from the Cybercrime Police
 to proceed in accordance with law under Section 102 of Cr.P.C., or any other law
 on which they are relying upon, failing which the amount so kept in FDs may also
 be allowed to be withdrawn by the petitioner under intimation to the Cybercrime
 agency. 08. With the aforesaid, the petition stands allowed and disposed off. (PRANAY VERMA)
 JUDGE

 Shilpa Signature Not Verified Signed by: SHILPA NAAGDEVE Signing time: 09-Apr-25 10:14:18 AM