MANOJ KUMAR OHRI, J. 1. The present bail application has been filed under Section 439 Cr.P.C.
 read with Section 45 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002
 (hereinafter, referred to as the „PMLA‟) on behalf of the applicant seeking
 regular bail in ECIR No. DLZO/15/2014/AD(VM) registered under Sections
 3 / 4 of the PMLA by the respondent. 2. The brief facts of the case, as discernible from the material placed on
 record, are that on the basis of disclosure made by the then Head of External
 Relations of M/s Finmeccanica [holding company of M/s AgustaWestland
 International Ltd. (hereinafter, referred to as „AWIL‟)], Italian authorities
 began investigation in the year 2011 regarding payment of bribes through
 middlemen Guido Ralph Haschke and the present applicant, in relation to
 supply of 12 VVIP helicopters by AWIL to the Government of India. The
 Office of Public Prosecutors (Naples and Rome) began telephonic/technical
 surveillance of Guido Ralph Haschke and others, including then CEO of M/s
 Finmeccanica. The surveillance revealed that AWIL had paid bribes
 disguised as payment to various firms for engineering jobs. During search
 proceedings conducted at the house of mother of Guido Ralph Haschke,
 various incriminating documents including a payment/balance sheet were
 recovered by the Swiss Police. Subsequently, Director General (Acq.), Ministry of Defence,
 Government of India lodged a complaint dated 12.02.2013 with CBI seeking
 inquiry/investigation into the aforesaid allegations. A preliminary inquiry
 was conducted, wherefore an FIR/RC bearing No.217-2013-A-0003 came to
 be registered on 12.03.2013. During investigation in the case, it was
 revealed that a Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued in March, 2002 on
 behalf of Indian Air Force (IAF) for procurement of 8 VVIP helicopters.
 One of the prescribed conditions was a mandatory altitude requirement of
 6000 meters. Although 4 firms had responded, only 3 helicopters i.e., MI-
 172, EC-225 and EH-101 (also known as AW-101) were selected by
 Technical Evaluation Committee for flight evaluation. Later, only the first
 two helicopters were flight evaluated as the third helicopter was certified to
 fly only upto an altitude of 4572 meters against the mandatory Operational

SignatureNotVerified Page 2of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 Requirement (OR) of 6000 meters. Eventually, during Field Evaluation Trial
 (FET), only EC-225 conformed to all parameters. When the FET report was sent to Ministry of Defence, Government of
 India for approval, the PMO highlighted in a meeting that the condition of
 mandatory altitude requirement of 6000 meters had resulted in a single
 vendor situation. The matter came to be deliberated at different levels,
 wherein the IAF maintained its stance with respect to mandatory altitude
 requirement of 6000 meters. However, when Sh. S.P. Tyagi became the
 Chief of Air Staff, the IAF's stand softened and the operational requirement
 of 6000 meters was brought down to 4500 meters, making M/s
 AgustaWestland UK eligible to submit its bid. Revised ORs, entailing a reduction in service ceiling from 6000
 meters to 4500 meters, cabin height of 180 centimeters and addition of the
 words „at least‟ before twin engine, came into picture. With the finally
 approved/revised ORs, another RFP was issued by IAF on 27.09.2006,
 pursuant to which, EC-225 helicopters were eliminated from competition
 and AW-101 helicopters enabled to enter the fray. On 08.02.2010, AWIL
 was awarded a contract by the Government of India for supply of 12 AW-
 101 VVIP helicopters for Euro 556.262 million (Rs.3726.96 crores). When
 the allegations of bribery in the procurement process of VVIP helicopters
 came to light, the contract dated 08.02.2010 was terminated by the
 Government of India on 01.01.2014. Based on the case made out in the RC,
 the present ECIR was recorded against the applicant and others on
 03.07.2014. 3. After investigation by the Directorate of Enforcement (hereinafter,
 referred to as the „ED‟), a prosecution complaint was filed against Guido
 Haschke and other accused persons on 20.11.2014. The applicant was
 arrayed as an accused in the first supplementary complaint dated
 10.06.2016. 4. It was alleged that the applicant, who was a consultant of M/s
 AgustaWestland, had acted as a middleman/agent on behalf of the company
 in securing confidential information regarding the procurement of 12 VVIP
 helicopters by the Government of India. It was further alleged that he was
 roped in post-2006 for liaison work, in furtherance of which he and Guido
 Haschke combined received more than Euro 70 million in the companies
 beneficially owned and controlled by them, of which Euro 30 million were
 transferred to the applicant's companies, namely M/s Global Services FZE,
 UAE and M/s Global Trade & Commerce Ltd. Reportedly, to bye-pass the
 integrity pact signed between the Government of India and AWIL and to
 facilitate payment of kickbacks, several service contracts were executed
 between the applicant's companies and AWIL, even though no service was
 rendered by said companies in exchange or if rendered, the payments were
 not commensurate with the work done. In this way, a smoke screen was
 created between the bogus agreements/contracts and the main contract of
 AWIL with the Government of India, while prima facie legitimizing the
 payment of kickbacks by showcasing them as service charges. 5. It was further alleged that the applicant carried out liaison activities
 with various political leaders, bureaucrats and ministers, and engaged one
 J.B. Subramanian for typing and sending dispatches/reports in relation to
 developments in the procurement process to co-accused persons, which

SignatureNotVerified Page 4of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 ultimately helped AWIL influence and bag the VVIP helicopter deal. The
 applicant was also alleged to have created various structures in India,
 Singapore, Dubai, etc., wherein several people were engaged, to route the
 kickbacks. While major portion of the kickbacks was stated to have been
 withdrawn in cash and through Hawala for payment to Indian Air Force
 officials, bureaucrats, etc., a certain portion was also reported to have been
 used by the applicant to purchase properties and to make payments to
 friends and family. Till date, 9 supplementary complaints have been filed
 and further investigation is stated to be going on. 6. After the applicant was extradited and brought to India, on
 22.12.2018, an application filed by ED seeking arrest of the applicant was
 taken up by the Special Court and after hearing both sides, 7 days' PC
 remand of the applicant was granted to ED. Subsequently, the applicant filed
 applications seeking statutory/interim/regular bail, which came to be
 dismissed by the Special Court on 16.02.2019, 18.04.2019 and 07.09.2019,
 in view of factors including, the serious nature of allegations and the stage
 of investigation. 7. Aggrieved, the applicant preferred BAIL APPLNs. 2715/2019 and
 2716/2019 before this Court, one in respect of the RC and the other in the
 present ECIR recorded by the ED. When the hearing in the bail applications
 could not be concluded on account of restrictions imposed by COVID-19
 lockdown, the applicant approached the Supreme Court for grant of bail. The
 Supreme Court, vide order dated 01.04.2020, directed this Court to decide
 the applications filed by the applicant seeking interim bail, on their own
 merits. Pursuant thereto, a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court vide order dated
 06.04.2020 declined the prayer made by the applicant in his interim bail

SignatureNotVerified Page 5of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 applications after giving due consideration to the contentions raised. The
 Special Leave Petition (Criminal) Diary No(s). 10900/2020 filed against the
 said order was dismissed by the Supreme Court on 22.04.2020. 8. On 22.04.2021, the applicant sought leave to withdraw BAIL APPLN.
 2716/2019 with liberty to seek redressal before the Trial Court, as the
 supplementary charge sheet had been filed. Accordingly, the bail application
 was dismissed as withdrawn with grant of the liberty prayed for. On 18.06.2021, the application filed on behalf of the applicant seeking
 bail again came to be dismissed by the Special Court, considering inter-alia
 the serious nature of the allegations, the gravity of the offence, the stage of
 investigation and the conduct of the applicant. 9. I have heard learned counsels for the parties and have also gone
 through the material placed on record as well as the written submissions
 filed in support of the contentions. 10. During the course of arguments, Mr. Aljo K. Joseph, learned counsel
 for the applicant, made a preliminary submission that the Italian Court has
 already tried and acquitted the applicant and other accused persons after
 considering all materials and documents. Reference was made by him to the
 proceedings dated 19.06.2013 before the Italian Court to submit that the
 Indian Ministry of Defence was a party to the proceedings, where it was
 held that no money has flown out of the accounts of the applicant's company
 to bribe any officials. Thus, the continuation of proceedings before the
 Courts in India is in violation of Article 15 of the United Nations
 Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its protocol. It also

SignatureNotVerified Page 6of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 amounts to double jeopardy under Article 20(2) of the Constitution of India
 and is further barred in view of the principles of issue estoppel and res
 judicata. In response and while opposing the bail application, Mr. S.V. Raju,
 learned ASG appearing for the respondent/ED, submitted that neither the
 applicant nor the ED/Government of India was party to the criminal
 proceedings before the Italian Court, and as such, the
 commencement/continuation of trial before the Courts in India is not
 precluded either on the principle of issue estoppel or res judicata, the latter
 not even being applicable to criminal proceedings. It was urged that the
 reliance placed on behalf of the applicant on the United Nations Convention
 against Transnational Organized Crime is misplaced, as Article 15(6) of the
 Convention grants the Member States authority with respect to criminal
 prosecution in their domestic law. It was further stated that the evidence
 recorded by the Italian Courts with respect to the other co-accused persons
 has no bearing on the applicant's trial in India. In support of his
 submissions, learned ASG placed reliance on the decisions in Gramophone
 Company of India Ltd. v. Birendra Bahadur Pandey and Others reported as
 ( 1984) 2 SCC 534, Jitendra Panchal v. Intelligence Officer, Narcotics
 Control Bureau and Another reported as ( 2009) 3 SCC 57, Monica Bedi v.
 State of Andhra Pradesh reported as ( 2011) 1 SCC 284 and A.T. Mydeen
 and Another v. Assistant Commissioner, Customs Department reported as
 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1017. 11. Before dealing with the issue, this Court deems it apposite to advert to
 the decision in Piara Singh v. State of Punjab reported as (1969) 1 SCC 379,
 where it has been observed that when a finding of fact has been recorded in

SignatureNotVerified Page 7of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 favor of the accused in earlier proceedings before a competent Court, the
 finding would constitute an estoppel against the prosecution to the extent
 that a Court in subsequent proceedings would be precluded from receiving
 evidence which disturbs said finding of fact. However, the same will not
 operate as a bar to the trial or conviction of the accused for a subsequent
 distinct offence. While taking this view, the Court made reference to the
 opinion of Dixon, J. in King v. Wilkes, (77 CLR at pp 518-519), which was
 extracted as under:- 13. Coming to the case at hand, this Court takes note of the order dated
 08.01.2018 passed by the Appellate Court of Milan, Italy. A perusal of the
 same would show that it was passed with respect to „criminal proceedings‟
 against Giuseppe Orsi and Bruno Spagnolini, alongwith „civil action‟
 brought at the instance of AGENZIA DELLE ENTRATE (Revenue
 Authority) and Indian Ministry of Defence. Although the applicant's name
 appears in the statement of reasons and the order, he was not a „party‟ before
 the Italian Court. Only Giuseppe Orsi and Bruno Spagnolini were charged
 and tried, that too for International Bribery and Tax Fraud during the years
 2009-10, when the proceedings were dismissed for lack of evidence. The
 trial in Italy was concluded in the year 2014, whereas the charge sheet in the
 predicate offence was only filed in the year 2017 on the basis of material
 which was not available with the Italian Courts. Notably, the Ministry of
SignatureNotVerified Page 9of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 Defence participated in the Italian proceedings only as a civil party. It may be expedient to also allude to the judgment dated 02.09.2018
 passed by the Dubai Supreme Court in extradition proceedings where the
 applicant took the same defence, i.e. of having already been tried by the
 Italian Court. Learned ASG has pointed out that the Dubai Supreme Court
 disbelieved the applicant's contention and opined that the proceedings
 before the Italian Court were in respect of other accused persons and not the
 applicant. In light of the foregoing and on a prima facie view, this Court
 finds no merit in the submission made on behalf of the applicant. 14. The second preliminary submission made by the learned counsel for
 the applicant was that in view of Section 21 of the Extradition Act, which
 adopts the „Doctrine of Specialty‟, the applicant cannot be tried for offences
 other than for which he was extradited. In this regard, attention of this Court
 was drawn to the judgment passed by the Dubai Supreme Court and the
 decision of the Supreme Court of India in Daya Singh Lahoria v. Union of
 India and Others reported as (2001) 4 SCC 516. In response, learned ASG submitted that Article 17 of the Extradition
 Treaty with UAE not only permits trial for offences in respect of which
 extradition of an accused person is sought, but also for the offences
 connected therewith. Emphasis was laid on the expression „is sought‟ used
 in Article 17 of the Treaty to submit that a reading of the extradition request,
 as noted in the judgment passed by the Dubai Supreme Court, would show
 that besides other offences, the applicant's extradition was also „sought‟ in
 respect of the offence of „money laundering‟. While distinguishing the
 decision of the Supreme Court in Daya Singh Lahoria (Supra), it was

SignatureNotVerified Page 10of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 submitted that the Republic of India has entered into different treaties with
 different countries and the decision in Daya Singh Lahoria (Supra),
 interpreting Section 21 of the Extradition Act, 1962, was with respect to the
 unique facts of the case and the Treaty applicable in the said case. The
 Treaty involved in the aforesaid case was much different from the Treaty
 entered into by the Republic of India with UAE, as the latter also permits
 trial of the person extradited for offences which are „connected‟ with the
 offences in respect of which extradition is „sought‟. To buttress his
 submission, learned ASG placed reliance on the decision in Commissioner
 of Customs, Bangalore v. G.M. Exports and Others reported as (2016) 1
 SCC 91. 15. In relation to the above issue, it is deemed expedient to make
 reference to the judgment passed by the Dubai Supreme Court, an English
 translated copy of which has been placed on record, supported by an
 affidavit to the effect that the same was examined by Prof. Rizwanur
 Rahman, Chairperson, Centre of Arabic and African Studies, School of
 Language, Literature and Culture Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University,
 New Delhi. Learned counsel for the applicant has raised no dispute
 regarding the translated copy or its contents. Relevant extract of the
 proceedings before the Dubai Supreme Court is reproduced hereunder:- xxx

 As such, and as there is extradition treaty between the UAE and
 the Republic of India in respect of the reciprocal legal assistance
 in criminal matters and extradition of criminals, the said treaty
 shall apply. Whereas Article 2 of the said treaty states the
 following: (The following persons shall be extradited): (emphasis added) 17. Notably, the supplementary complaint against the applicant has been
 filed for offences under Sections 3 / 4 PMLA. On a plain reading of the
 judgment passed by the Dubai Supreme Court; the Extradition Treaty signed
 between UAE and the Republic of India; and the authorities cited on the
 issue by the parties, this Court, prima facie, finds no merit in the submission
 made on behalf of the applicant. Even otherwise, the said submission would
 be open to test at the time of framing of Charge/trial. 18. A third preliminary submission made by the learned counsel for the
 applicant was that the applicant was subject of rendition and kept in illegal
 custody by the ED. In this regard, reliance was placed on a finding recorded
 in favor of the applicant by the United Nations Human Rights Council
 Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (hereinafter, referred to as the
 „UNHRC WGAD‟) in its 89th meeting. On the other hand, learned ASG submitted that though the
 Government of India had sent its reply to the UNHRC WGAD, the finding
 of the Group is not binding on the Courts in India as the Group is not a
 judicial body. It was also submitted that the findings have been negated by
 the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India in an official
 statement on 26.02.2021. 19. In connection with the issue, this Court notes that even though the
 UNHRC WGAD opinion relates to the present applicant, it was
 predominantly based on allegations and limited information received from
 an unidentified source. A response dated 26.06.2020 was sent by the
 Government of India pursuant to the Group's call for comments, wherein the
 circumstances surrounding the applicant's extradition were laid out and it
 was categorically stated that no procedural deficiencies had taken place in
 his extradition. It was also stated that the applicant's arrest and subsequent
 custody were in accordance with the judicial process established by law, and
 the issue of his custody and a request for interim bail had been considered
 by various Courts, including the Supreme Court of India. Besides, the Special Court, which was seized of all developments, has
 dealt with the issue in the order dated 18.06.2021 and observed that the
 Group did not have complete material before it while forming opinion; it
 was also held that the opinion had neither binding nor persuasive value over
 the Special Court, which had jurisdiction over the case and was in
 possession of the charge sheet, the supplementary charge sheet, including
 the statements of witnesses, and the documents relied upon by the
 investigating agency. Suffice it to note, the Special Court has taken
 cognizance of the offence and the applicant is being tried by Court of

SignatureNotVerified Page 14of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 competent jurisdiction in India. Accordingly, the submission made on behalf
 of the applicant does not weigh with this Court. 20. In addition to the foregoing, learned counsel for the applicant made
 the following further submissions:- 21. In support of his submissions seeking bail, learned counsel
 cumulatively placed reliance on the decisions in Babba alias Shankar
 Raghuman Rohida v. State of Maharashtra reported as (2005) 11 SCC 569,
 Rakesh Kumar Paul v. State of Assam reported as ( 2017) 15 SCC 67, Sanjay
 Chandra v. Central Bureau of Investigation reported as ( 2012) 1 SCC 40,
 State of Kerala v. Raneef reported as ( 2011) 1 SCC 784 and Lambert Kroger
 v. Enforcement Directorate reported as 2000 SCC OnLine Del 208. 22. Per contra, learned ASG made the following submissions:- 23. On the issue of the present application being a successive bail
 application to an order of dismissal, it is apparent from the decisions in Kalyan Chandra Sarkar (Supra) and Virupakshappa Gouda (Supra) that a
 fresh bail application of an accused may be allowed, only in case a „material
 change in circumstance‟ has occurred since an earlier dismissal order. In
 order to determine if such change has occurred, a Court shall look into the
 fresh grounds raised and/or material placed on record, and thereafter provide
 a reasoned finding as to what inclined it to take a view different from its
 predecessor Bench, if so. However, in the present case, the earlier dismissal order referred to by
 the learned ASG came to be passed in an interim bail application. Though
 the applicant had filed an earlier application for regular bail before this
 Court, the same was withdrawn with liberty to seek redressal before the
 Trial Court. On 13.04.2021, this Court had permitted the application to be

SignatureNotVerified Page 18of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 withdrawn, with liberty aforementioned, and was not considered on merits.
 In this backdrop, the submission made on behalf of the ED is discounted and
 this Court proceeds to consider the bail application on its own merits. 24. Before proceeding to analyse the facts of the present case, this Court
 deems it expedient to recapitulate the position of law on grant of bail. 25. Article 21 of the Constitution of India guarantees a right to personal
 liberty to every person, and thus, time and again, it has been opined by
 Courts across the country that bail is the rule and jail an exception. Besides
 reiterating this view, the Supreme Court in Sanjay Chandra (Supra) has
 further laid down that both factors, i.e., severity of the punishment and
 gravity of the offence, have to be simultaneously weighed while determining
 whether or not to grant bail to an accused. Relevant excerpt from the
 decision is extracted hereunder:- Xxx 46. We are conscious of the fact that the accused are charged with
 economic offences of huge magnitude. We are also conscious of the
 fact that the offences alleged, if proved, may jeopardise the
 economy of the country. At the same time, we cannot lose sight of
 the fact that the investigating agency has already completed
 investigation and the charge-sheet is already filed before the
 Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi." 26. While taking special note of cases involving economic offences, it has
 been propounded by the Supreme Court that such offences constitute a class
 apart and should be visited with a different approach in matters of bail
SignatureNotVerified Page 20of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 [Refer: Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v. Central Bureau of Investigation reported
 as (2013) 7 SCC 439, Anil Kumar Yadav v. State (NCT of Delhi) and
 Another reported as ( 2018) 12 SCC 129 and Rohit Tandon v. Directorate of
 Enforcement reported as (2018) 11 SCC 46]. 27. In respect of the considerations relevant to the grant of bail, this Court
 deems it profitable to advert to the decision in Anil Kumar Yadav (Supra),
 where it has been observed as follows:- 28. Recently, the principles governing grant of bail were considered by
 the Supreme Court in P. Chidambaram v. Central of Investigation reported
 as (2020) 13 SCC 337. Relevant extract from the decision is reproduced
 hereunder:- [ Vide Prahlad Singh Bhati v. State (NCT of Delhi ).] 22. There is no hard-and-fast rule regarding grant or refusal to
 grant bail. Each case has to be considered on the facts and
 circumstances of each case and on its own merits. The discretion
 of the court has to be exercised judiciously and not in an
 arbitrary manner. At this stage itself, it is necessary for us to
 indicate that we are unable to accept the contention of the
 learned Solicitor General that "flight risk" of economic
 offenders should be looked at as a national phenomenon and be
 dealt with in that manner merely because certain other offenders
 have flown out of the country. The same cannot, in our view, be
 put in a straitjacket formula so as to deny bail to the one who is
 before the court, due to the conduct of other offenders, if the
 person under consideration is otherwise entitled to bail on the
 merits of his own case. Hence, in our view, such consideration
 including as to "flight risk" is to be made on individual basis
 being uninfluenced by the unconnected cases, more so, when the
 personal liberty is involved." 29. Subsequently, in P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement reported as (2020) 13 SCC 791, the Supreme Court, after going through the
 entire conspectus of law on the aspect of determining factors to be taken into
 account at the time of consideration of bail, has observed that one of the
SignatureNotVerified Page 22of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 circumstances to consider the gravity of offence is the term of sentence,
 which has to be kept in mind besides the triple test. 30. Coming to the facts of the case, it is noted that the applicant is stated
 to be the key accused. He is accused of having played a pivotal role in the
 entire case, being a middleman engaged by M/s AgustaWestland for
 obtaining confidential information regarding the procurement process of
 VVIP helicopters by the Government of India. As per the allegations, one J.B. Subramanian was engaged by the
 applicant for typing and sending dispatches/reports in relation to
 developments in the procurement process to co-accused persons. He is
 further accused of having facilitated payment of kickbacks/bribes to IAF
 personnel, bureaucrats and politicians in India in order to influence the
 outcome of the procurement process with the end goal to benefit AWIL. 31. From a perusal of the material placed on record, it is apparent that the
 applicant, through his companies M/s Global Trade & Commerce Ltd.,
 London and M/s Global Services FZE, Dubai, UAE, entered into various
 contracts with M/s Finmeccanica, M/s AgustaWestland, M/s Westland
 Helicopters, UK etc. to camouflage the receipt of kickbacks/bribe amounts.
 In furtherance, his companies were paid an amount of Euro 30 million, even
 though no work was carried out. One of these contracts is reported to have
 been for Euro 6,050,000 between M/s AgustaWestland Holdings Ltd. and
 M/s Global Services FZE, Dubai, and the second, for Euro 18.2 million
 between M/s Westland Helicopters and M/s Global Trade and Commerce
 Ltd., UK. 32. It has been alleged that the funds received by the applicant in his
 companies constituted proceeds of crime, out of which, money was diverted
 by the applicant to one M/s Media Exim Pvt. Ltd and later projected as
 untainted. In the investigation, it has come that M/s Media Exim Pvt. Ltd. was a
 shell company with no business transaction done at all, formed by Mr. R.K.
 Nanda on the instructions of the applicant and used only for the purpose of
 sale and purchase of properties and/or to launder money. Reportedly, Mr.
 R.K. Nanda and Mr. J.B. Subramanium were appointed Directors in the said
 company on the directions of the applicant and an amount of Rs.6.33 crores
 (approx.) was transferred to the account of the said company by the
 applicant through his company M/s Global Services FZE (Dubai). This
 amount was then used to purchase immoveable properties, one Honda Civic
 Car, one Ford Endeavour, paintings, jewellery, etc. It has also been revealed
 that the applicant facilitated the transfer of money, including cash/other
 items through his aides to desired recipients, who are in receipt of the
 proceeds of crime. It is reported that when the allegations in the present case came to
 light, the applicant instructed R.K. Nanda to dispose of the immovable
 properties purchased out of the proceeds of crime aforementioned. As a
 result of the sale/purchase of the properties, M/s Media Exim Pvt. Ltd.
 recorded a net gain of Rs.7.75 crores, and Rs.6.33 crores (approx.) received
 earlier from the applicant's company were transferred back to it. It has been
 alleged that the assets of M/s Media Exim Pvt. Ltd., worth Rs.2,77,70,000/-,
 include properties purchased but not disposed of, cash, etc., and having
 come from M/s AgustaWestland with the help of the applicant, also

SignatureNotVerified Page 24of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 constitute proceeds of crime. 33. During investigation, incriminating documents against the applicant
 are stated to have been recovered, including a partly typed and partly
 handwritten agreement dated 08.05.2011, alleged to be in the handwriting of
 the applicant. Further, a payment sheet prepared by Guido Haschke on the
 instructions of the applicant is also stated to have been recovered, showing
 that an amount of Euro 30 million was paid/proposed to be paid to
 Bureaucrats, Politicians, etc. for influencing the VVIP helicopters deal. 34. During the course of submissions, learned counsel for the applicant
 argued that the twin conditions under Section 45(1) PMLA are not
 applicable to the present case, as there can be no retrospective application of
 the amendment made in Section 45 PMLA vide the Finance Act, 2018 . Per
 contra, learned ASG submitted that the twin conditions have been revived
 by way of the amendment made in Section 45 PMLA vide the Finance Act,
 2018 and are thus applicable to the present case. A plain reading of the
 provision would show that the embargo imposed thereby on grant of bail
 takes form of twin conditions - (i) that the Public Prosecutor shall be given
 an opportunity to oppose the application for release, and (ii) where the
 Public Prosecutor opposes such application, the Court should be satisfied
 that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty
 of the offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail.
 The limitations so imposed are in addition to those imposed under Cr.P.C .
 and have an overriding effect over the provisions of the Code, in case there
 occurs any inconsistency between the provisions of the two. Though
 stringent, they were earlier held by the Supreme Court to be mandatory
 [Refer: Gautam Kundu v. Directorate of Enforcement (Prevention of

SignatureNotVerified Page 25of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18 Money-Laundering Act ), Government of India through Manoj Kumar,
 Assistant Director, Eastern Region reported as (2015) 16 SCC 1 and Rohit
 Tandon (Supra)]. 35. Be that as it may, in 2017, the constitutional validity of Section 45 PMLA came to be challenged before the Supreme Court in Nikesh
 Tarachand Shah (Supra), wherefore, by a judgment rendered in 2018,
 explicating the defects inherent in the provision and the challenges posed
 thereby, the Supreme Court held that the twin conditions imposed by Section 45(1) PMLA were manifestly arbitrary, discriminatory and violative
 of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India. Post the decision in
 Nikesh Tarachand Shah (Supra), an amendment was made to Section 45 PMLA vide the Finance Act, 2018 and brought into effect from 19.04.2018. 36. Learned counsels for the parties have informed that the issues raised
 in the present proceedings in connection with Section 45 PMLA have
 already been taken up for hearing by the Supreme Court and are under active
 consideration. 37. Insofar as learned ASG has raised an apprehension that the applicant
 may influence witnesses and/or tamper with evidence, suffice it to note, the
 respondent has failed to bring out any credible circumstance to show that the
 applicant has directly or indirectly influenced any witness till date. Further,
 statements of witnesses/accused under Section 50 PMLA are stated to have
 been recorded and all the material relevant to the case, being documentary in
 nature, is stated to have already been seized and filed alongwith the
 prosecution complaint/supplementary complaints. In this backdrop, this
 Court is of the opinion that the apprehensions of the applicant influencing

SignatureNotVerified Page 26of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 witnesses/tampering with evidence are not supported by any material placed
 on record, and on this aspect, mere pendency of further investigation is of no
 consequence. In this regard, the Supreme Court in P. Chidambaram v.
 Central Bureau of Investigation (Supra) and Sanjay Chandra (Supra) has also
 observed that mere apprehension of the accused influencing
 witnesses/tampering with evidence, without any material supporting the
 allegations, cannot be a basis to keep him in jail. 38. So far as the third prong of triple test, i.e. of the applicant being a
 flight risk, is concerned, learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that
 the applicant's passport lies seized with CBI and another accused person
 who is a foreign national has been granted bail. On the other hand, learned
 ASG has stressed that the applicant is a British national having no roots in
 India and continues to be a flight risk. It has also been submitted on behalf
 of ED that prior to his role becoming public, the applicant was a frequent
 visitor to India, however, when co-accused Giuseppe Orsi was arrested by
 the Italian authorities on 12.02.2013, the applicant left India on the same
 day, and thereafter, never returned, until he was extradited. Although, merely because an accused is a foreign national, bail cannot
 be denied as a matter of course, but at the same time this Court cannot lose
 sight of the aforementioned facts which indicate as to how the applicant has
 evaded investigation in the present case. It is also worthwhile to take into
 account that the applicant could be brought to India only after going through
 the process of extradition, which in fact was vehemently opposed by him, as
 apparent from the judgment of the Dubai Supreme Court. For the said
 reasons, this Court does not find force in the submissions made on behalf of
 the applicant with respect to parity with co-accused foreign national who is

SignatureNotVerified Page 27of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 stated to have been granted bail. 39. Besides, while dismissing the earlier interim bail application of the
 applicant, a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court made a categorical observation
 that he was a flight risk, having no roots in the society. At the time, it was
 also observed by the learned Judge that in the aforesaid facts, the applicant
 could not seek parity with co-accused persons. The said order was
 challenged before the Supreme Court, but the same also came to be
 dismissed. 40. At this stage, this Court deems it apposite to advert to the two recent
 decisions by the Supreme Court in The Directorate of Enforcement v.
 Parkash Gurbaxani etc., SLP(Crl.) 7666-7667/2021 and The Asst. Director
 Enforcement Directorate v. Dr. V.C. Mohan, Criminal Appeal No. 21/2022, which are briefly discussed hereunder. 41. By way of the impugned order in Parkash Gurbaxani (Supra), passed
 in the context of grant of regular bail, the Punjab and Haryana High Court
 had held that the twin conditions under Section 45(1) PMLA do not stand
 revived by virtue of the amendment made by the Finance Act, 2018 . Vide
 order dated 20.10.2021, the Supreme Court observed as under :- Although the Supreme Court declined to interfere with the impugned
 order in the circumstances of the case, including the fact that the
 respondent(s) were reportedly senior citizens and had cooperated in the
SignatureNotVerified Page 28of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 investigation, it was directed that the same shall not be treated as precedent
 in other cases. The question of law, however, was left open. 42. In Dr. V.C. Mohan (Supra), on a challenge made by the Directorate of
 Enforcement to the grant of anticipatory bail to the respondent, the Supreme
 Court set aside the impugned order and remanded the matter back for re-
 consideration. It was held as under:- Notably, the above observations came to be made by the Supreme
 Court after granting leave in an SLP and conversion of the case into a
 Criminal Appeal. 43. Based on the categorical observations made by the Supreme Court in Dr. V.C. Mohan (Supra) and Parkash Gurbaxani (Supra), this Court reckons
 that the present bail application needs to be tested on the touchstone of the
 twin conditions set out in Section 45(1) PMLA as well. 44. With regard to the parameters for adjudication of bail application in
 terms of Section 45(1)(ii) PMLA, reference may be made to the
 observations made in Rohit Tandon (Supra), where while relying on its
 earlier decisions in Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing Sharma v. State of
 Maharashtra and Another reported as ( 2005) 5 SCC 294 and State of
 Maharashtra v. Vishwanath Maranna Shetty reported as (2012) 10 SCC 561,
 the Supreme Court held as under: 45. From a perusal of the material placed on record, it is discernible that
 the applicant never joined proceedings before the Court in Italy, and for that
 reason European Non-Bailable Warrants were issued against him. In India,
 summons were initially issued by ED to the applicant on 23.09.2015, but he
 failed to join investigation. As a result, open ended NBWs were issued by
 the learned Special Judge on 23.10.2015. Subsequently, a Red Corner
 Notice bearing Control No. A-20/1-2016 was issued by INTERPOL, which
 came to be published on 04.01.2016. Thereafter, the applicant came to be
 arrested in UAE. A request for extradition of the applicant was forwarded by
 ED to UAE on 05.02.2018. Subsequently, the applicant came to be
 extradited to India on 04.12.2018, i.e. after filing of the third supplementary
 complaint. He was taken into custody by the ED on 22.12.2018. The allegations levelled against the applicant are serious in nature, for
 having committed a grave economic offence. He is reported to have
 transferred confidential information regarding the VVIP helicopters deal to
 AWIL, in order to influence the deal in its favor. He is also accused of
SignatureNotVerified Page 31of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 having facilitated the payment of kickbacks/bribe amounts by AWIL to
 Indian bureaucrats, politicians, etc. in connection with the deal. For his
 services, he is alleged to have received Euro 30 million from AWIL, which
 amount is stated to have been routed further through his companies to co-
 accused persons/entities and later projected as untainted. 46. Even though the applicant has spent considerable time in custody, on
 a consideration of the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, including
 the factum of the applicant evading process/investigation in India/Italy and
 eventually having been extradited to India, this Court is of the opinion that
 the applicant, having no roots in the Indian society, is a flight risk. Further,
 keeping in view the parameters set out in Section 45(1) PMLA and the
 discussion undertaken hereinbefore, this Court finds no reasonable ground to
 believe that the applicant is not guilty of the alleged offence or that he is not
 likely to commit any such offence while on bail. Accordingly, the present
 bail application is dismissed. 47. In closing, it may also be mentioned that after the arguments were
 concluded and while the order was being reserved in the present case, an
 unverified letter dated 07.02.2022 from one Mr. Edward Bossley, HM
 Consul to India, was shown on behalf of the applicant, in respect of the
 apprehension that if enlarged on bail, he may be issued travel documents
 which may ultimately lead to his fleeing from justice. Learned ASG raised a
 strong objection regarding the same. It was pointed out that a similar letter
 from Mr. Bossley was sent to the Special Court through e-mail at the time of
 adjudication of the applicant's bail application on which, the Special Court
 had observed that the letter having come from a third party was not
 permissible material. Under these circumstances, this Court finds the letter

SignatureNotVerified Page 32of 33
Digitally BAIL APPLN. 2566/2021
SignedBy:SANGEETAANAND
SigningDate:12.13.2022
16:23:18
 dated 07.02.2022 to be of no persuasive value and the reliance placed
 thereon unmerited. 48. Needless to state, nothing stated hereinabove shall amount to an
 expression on the merits of the case and shall not have a bearing in the trial
 of the case.