From 5/07/2024 to still now my Airtel Payment Bank account [protected] is Inactive. My account balance is 4275₹.After contact with them APB customer care informed me that for some security reasons my APB account is on temporary hold. To unlock this account a Biometric transaction will needed from APB Banking Point. But due to some technical issue in APB website biometric transaction procedure failed several times. As a direction of APB care representative in 14/07/2024 I lodged comlaint to [protected]@airtelbank via my Gmail Id [protected]@gmail.com with the photo of the technical issue message which displays on screen.APB accept my Email & gave me case 27220544 . They told me that my problem will solve in between 2 working days . But Without doing anything in 16 & 17th July via SMS they Informs me my Problem resolved. But still My APB account is inactive & I unable to send money to others or self account. Then how they resolved my problem?I have no Legal issue, no suspicious transaction, no loan problem. But APB hold my money like this. APB authority is not interested to solve the technical issues problem for Biometric transaction procedure in their website. I again contact with them via 400 in 18th July & they told me to wait for another 2 working days. Same is happened in 22nd July. No solution, only waiting for another 2 working days. After that I again want to complete Biometric Transaction process from Another APB Banking Point. Again this procedure failed due to some another technical reason. Aadhar verification successful but my My no./account not registered for Airtel Payment Bank. How is this possible? After that they do not ready to accept my call properly or reply my mails.I think they are not serious with my issue. So, as a frightened common Indian Citizen I beg your help to save my hard earned money from a probable banking fraud by Airtel Payment Bank. Because amount of 4275 ₹ is big amount for me. I already lodge Complaint in National Consumer Helpline app about it. Docket no. Is 6011743. Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (0)