Dated this the 18th day of February, 2025. Nitin Jamdar, C. J. The appointment to the post of member of the Child Welfare
Committee, Kollam, is the subject matter of this appeal. The Appellant -the original Petitioner, filed a writ petition to challenge the
appointment of Respondent No. 8 as a member of the Child Welfare
Committee and for a prayer to appoint the Appellant as a member. The
learned Single Judge dismissed the writ petition. Hence, the Appellant
filed this appeal under Section 5 of the Kerala High Court Act, 1958. 2. The Child Welfare Committee is constituted under Section 27 of
the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (Act
of 2015) for every district. This Committee consists of a Chairman and
four other members. Exercising the powers under Section 110(1) of
the Act of 2015, Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children)
Model Rules, 2016 (Rules of 2016) have been framed by the Central
Government. Chapter IV of the Rules of 2016 provides for the Child
Welfare Committee. Rule 87 of the Rules of 2016 enables the State
Government to constitute the Selection Committee. The Selection
Committee consists of a retired judge of the High Court as the
Chairperson to be appointed in consultation with the Chief Justice of
the High Court concerned and a representative from the department as
specified, representatives from non-governmental organisations,
academic bodies, universities, etc. The State of Kerala, by notification W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -4- 2025:KER:13641

dated 18 July 2017, has framed the Juvenile Justice (Care and
Protection of Children) Constitution of Child Welfare Committees and
Juvenile Justice Boards (Kerala) Rules, 2017 (Rules of 2017), which
provides for the constitution of the Committee, qualifications for the
Chairperson and members of the Committee, and the tenure of the
Committee. 3. By Exhibit-P2 notification dated 26 November 2021 issued by the
Women and Child Development Department, applications were
invited for appointment to the posts of the Chairperson and members
of the Child Welfare Committees in 14 Districts in the State of Kerala.
The notification states that as per the Act of 2015, applications are
invited to appoint the Chairman and four members of the Child
Welfare Committee each in 14 Districts of Kerala. The period of
appointment was for three years. 4. The Appellant applied pursuant to Exhibit-P2 notification.
Twenty-nine applications received were found to be eligible. Interviews
were held on 22 March 2022. The Appellant participated in the
interview. Thereafter, a list was prepared. The Appellant was given a
ranking at No. 9. A recommended panel list for the Child Welfare
Committee was prepared. It included Mr. Sanil Kumar S. as
Chairperson of the Committee, Ms. Ambika Sony, Ms. Aswathy
Viswan and Ms. Renjana A. R. as three members, and Mr. Alan M.
Alexander, Respondent No. 8, was recommended as a member of the
Committee. Mr. C. Krishnankutty Nair, the Appellant, was placed at
No. 1 on the waiting list of the Child Welfare Committee members. 2025:KER:13641

Appointments were made by appointing the members from the
recommended panel list as above, who were notified in the Official
Gazette issued on 16 June 2022, including the Child Welfare
Committee of the Kollam District. The Appellant was not appointed. 5. The Appellant filed W. P. (C) No. 21014 of 2022, challenging the
appointment of Respondent No. 8 on the ground that he is not
qualified as per the eligibility criteria laid down in the Act of 2015 and
the State Rules of 2017. The main contention of the Appellant was that
Respondent No. 8 lacks the mandatory seven years of experience in the
areas connected with the welfare of children. According to the
Appellant, he not only was fully qualified to have the necessary
educational qualifications but also has experience of more than seven
years in the areas connected with the welfare of children and being next
on the waiting list, he should be appointed after setting aside the
appointment of Respondent No. 8. 6. The State has filed a counter affidavit dated 8 February 2024.
Respondent No. 8 has also filed a counter affidavit dated 5 March
2024. The Appellant has filed a reply affidavit dated 11 March 2024. 7. The learned Single Judge, after considering the arguments and
material on record, concluded that the role of the Court in the matter
relating to selection is limited, and the Court cannot sit in appeal over
the decision of the Selection Committee. The learned Single Judge held
that the Selection Committee, having found that Respondent No. 8
had experience, cannot be interfered with and dismissed the writ W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -6- 2025:KER:13641

petition by the impugned judgment dated 2 September 2024.
Challenging this order, the Appellant is in appeal before us. 8. We have heard Mr. C. Krishnankutty Nair, Appellant-in-person,
Mr. S. Sreekumar (Kollam), learned counsel for Respondent No. 8, and
Mr. V. Tekchand, learned Senior Government Pleader for the State. 9. Since the matter was being delayed and the Appellant has no
grievance against the other Respondents, the Appellant has deleted the
other private Respondents. The Appellant has restricted the challenge
to the appointment of Respondent No. 8 and a consequential direction
for his own appointment. In appeal, the Appellant has argued the case
only with reference to the appointment to the Child Welfare
Committee. 10. Child Welfare Committees are constituted under Section 27 of
the Act of 2015 which reads thus:- 2025:KER:13641

 (3) The District Child Protection Unit shall
 provide a Secretary and other staff that may be required
 for secretarial support to the Committee for its effective
 functioning. (4) No person shall be appointed as a member of
 the Committee unless he has a degree in child
 psychology or psychiatry or law or social work or
 sociology or human health or education or human
 development or special education for differently abled
 children and has been actively involved in health,
 education or welfare activities pertaining to children for
 seven years or is a practising professional with a degree
 in child psychology or psychiatry or law or social work
 or sociology or human health or education or human
 development or special education for differently abled
 children. (4A) No person shall be eligible for selection as a
 member of the Committee, if he-- (i) has any past record of violation of human rights or
 child rights, (ii) has been convicted of an offence involving moral
 turpitude, and such conviction has not been reversed or
 has not been granted full pardon in respect of such
 offence, (iii) has been removed or dismissed from service of the
 Government of India or State Government or an
 undertaking or corporation owned or controlled by the
 Government of India or State Government, (iv) has ever indulged in child abuse or employment of
 child labour or immoral act or any other violation of
 human rights or immoral acts, or (v) is part of management of a child care institution in a
 District. (5) No person shall be appointed as a member
 unless he possesses such other qualifications as may be W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -8- 2025:KER:13641

 prescribed. (6) No person shall be appointed for a period of
 more than three years as a member of the Committee.
 (7) The appointment of any member of the
 Committee shall be terminated by the State
 Government after making an inquiry, if-- (i) he has been found guilty of misuse of power vested
 on him under this Act; (ii) he has been convicted of an offence involving moral
 turpitude and such conviction has not been reversed or
 he has not been granted full pardon in respect of such
 offence; (iii) he fails to attend the proceedings of the Committee
 consecutively for three months without any valid reason
 or he fails to attend minimum three-fourths of the
 sittings in a year. (8) The Committee shall submit a report to the
 District Magistrate in such form as may be prescribed
 and the District Magistrate shall conduct a quarterly
 review of the functioning of the Committee. (9) The Committee shall function as a Bench and
 shall have the powers conferred by the Code of
 Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974) on a
 Metropolitan Magistrate or, as the case may be, a
 Judicial Magistrate of First Class. (10) The District Magistrate shall be the grievance
 redressal authority to entertain any grievance arising out
 of the functioning of the Committee and the affected
 child or anyone connected with the child, as the case
 may be, may file a complaint before the District
 Magistrate who shall take cognizance of the action of
 the Committee and, after giving the parties an
 opportunity of being heard, pass appropriate order." (emphasis supplied) W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -9- 2025:KER:13641

Section 27(4) opens with the negative language that no person shall be
appointed as a member of the Committee unless he possesses the
prescribed qualifications. 11. In the exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Section
110(1) of the Act of 2015, the Central Government has framed model
rules titled Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Model
Rules, 2016. Rule 15 of the Model Rules prescribes the composition of
the Child Welfare Committees and their eligibility and experience.
Rule 87 of the Model Rules provides for the constitution of the
Selection Committee by the State Government and its composition.
The State of Kerala, under Rule 7 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and
Protection of Children) Constitution of Child Welfare Committees and
Juvenile Justice Boards (Kerala) Rules, has also prescribed the
constitution of the Committee. The qualifications for the Chairperson
and the members of the Committee are provided under Rule 8, and the
tenure of the Committee is referred to in Rule 9. These Rules are in
addition to the Act of 2015 and the Model Rules. Therefore, under
the Act of 2015, the Model Rules, and the State Rules of 2017, no
person should be appointed as a member unless he possesses a degree
as prescribed and has been actively involved in health, education or
welfare activities pertaining to children for seven years or is a practising
professional with a degree in child psychology or psychiatry or law or
social work or sociology or human health or education or human
development or special education for differently abled children. 12. The functions and responsibilities of the Committees, as W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -10- 2025:KER:13641

prescribed under Section 30 of the Act of 2015, encompass a wide
range of duties, including taking cognisance of and receiving the
children produced, conducting inquiries on issues related to the safety
and well-being of the children, directing social investigations by Child
Welfare Officers or probation officers, and submitting reports before
the Committee. The Committees are responsible for declaring fit
persons for the care of children in need of care and protection,
directing placement in foster care, ensuring care, protection,
rehabilitation, or restoration of children based on individual care plans,
and issuing necessary directions to parents, guardians, fit persons, or
relevant facilities. The Committees play a crucial role in selecting
registered institutions for the placement of children requiring
institutional support, conducting regular inspections of residential
facilities, and recommending improvements in service quality. The
Committees are involved in restoration efforts for abandoned or lost
children, declaration of orphan, abandoned, and surrendered children
as legally free for adoption, and taking suo motu cognisance of cases
involving children not presented before the Committee. The
Committees look into cases referred by the Board, coordinate with
police, labour departments, and other agencies for child protection,
conduct inquiries and issue directions to relevant authorities in cases of
abuse in childcare institutions. The Committees are also instrumental
in accessing legal services for children and perform various other
functions and responsibilities as prescribed. Under Section 31 of the
Act of 2015, any child in need of care and protection may be produced
before the Committee. Under Section 36 of the Act of 2015, on the W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -11- 2025:KER:13641

production of a child or receipt of a report under Section 31, the
Committee has to send the child to the children's home or shelter
home or a fit facility or fit person and for speedy social investigation by
a social worker or Child Welfare Officer or Child Welfare Police
Officer. All children below six years of age who are orphans,
surrendered or appear to be abandoned have to be placed with a
Specialised Adoption Agency. If the Committee is of the opinion that
the child has no family or support or needs care and protection, it may
send the child to a Specialised Adoption Agency. 13. Therefore, the object, selection and functioning of the Child
Welfare Committees would show why the Legislature has placed a
negative mandate of not appointing a person as the Child Welfare
Committee member unless, apart from other qualifications, the
applicant has active experience in health, education or welfare activities
of children for seven years. This is also clear from the fact that the
Selection Committee under Rule 87 of the Rules of 2016 is to be
headed by a retired Judge of the High Court as the Chairperson. This is
to emphasise the importance of manning the authorities under the Act
of 2015 with qualified and experienced individuals who would be able
to dedicate themselves to the cause of enumerating the plight of
children in need. 14. Considering the negative mandate of Section 27(4) of the Act of
2015, read with Rule 8(2) of the Rules of 2017, the experience of
seven years must be construed as having been actively involved and
engaged in the measures relating to child welfare as a predominant W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -12- 2025:KER:13641

object and not as a peripheral requirement. Many professions or
activities may involve children as one of the components of the class
with which the applicant may deal. However, the experience under Section 27(4) of the Act of 2015 and Rule 8(2) of the Rules of 2017 is
an 'active involvement' with measures relating to 'child welfare'. The
insistence on the phrase 'actively involved' is to exclude passive
involvement of being present but not engaging meaningfully. 15. With that, we examine whether the experience of Respondent
No. 8 fulfils the criteria under Section 27(4) of the Act of 2015 and
Rule 8(2) of the Rules of 2017. 16. In the record produced by the State, the qualifications of
Respondent No. 8 are shown as a Degree in Physiotherapy, nine years
of experience as Project Director for children at Limrah Health
Connection Pvt. Ltd., and one year of volunteer as National General
Secretary at the International Human Rights Commission. The
Appellant has contended that he has obtained documents under the Right to Information Act, 2005 , which showed that there is nothing to
show that Respondent No. 8 has the requisite experience in the child-
related fields. The Appellant further contended that Respondent No. 8
was selected only on the premise of work experience as Project Director
at Limrah Health Connection Pvt. Ltd. It is submitted that the
operation of Limrah Health Connection Pvt. Ltd. showed that it is a
private limited company established to conduct medical tourism and
does not have anything about the development or welfare of the
children. The Appellant also contended that the profile of Respondent W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -13- 2025:KER:13641

No. 8, downloaded from the internet, would show that his work at
Limrah Health Connection Pvt. Ltd. involved handling medical
insurance company claims for finding frauds, and this does not
enable Respondent No. 8 to claim that he has the requisite statutory
prescribed qualification. 17. The contention of the learned Senior Government Pleader is that
the selection process was duly conducted, the comparative merit of the
candidates was examined, and the Committee, after the interview,
found Respondent No. 8 suitable. Regarding the stand of Respondent
No. 8, the learned counsel for Respondent No. 8 relied upon the
certificate issued by the Managing Director of Limrah Health
Connection Pvt. Ltd. In the counter affidavit filed by Respondent No.
8, from paragraphs 1 to 8, he has reproduced the prayers, then
reference is made to the statutory provisions, and as regards his own
qualifications, he has stated that he has a certificate issued from CMJ
University, Meghalaya. He states that he is a Physiotherapist by
profession with experience of more than 24 years and has worked as
Director of Operations in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh for child
development projects under Limrah Health Connection Pvt. Ltd.
These are the basic documents with which we are concerned. 18. The counter affidavit filed by Respondent No. 8 is sketchy. His
experience is dealt with only in one paragraph, i.e. paragraph 9, which
reads as follows:- This is all Respondent No. 8 has to say about his actual experience in
the field. 19. At the time of the interview, Respondent No. 8 had produced
the certificate stating that he is the Project Director of Limrah Health
Connection Pvt. Ltd. related to children. He has changed that version.
In the counter affidavit filed by Respondent No. 8, he states that he
worked as Director of Operations in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.
The earlier one had no such reference. No details of the work carried
out, such as names, places, etc., are placed on record. The certificate
now produced is doubtful. The certificate issued to him by another
director - a colleague - Mr Muhammed Mustafa, is vague and does not
convey that Respondent No. 8 performed duties of child welfare and
child-related activities. 20. By filing two affidavits, the Appellant has pointed out that
Limrah Health Connection Pvt. Ltd. is registered under the Indian
Companies Act, 2013 for doing business in Medical Tourism and W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -15- 2025:KER:13641

Medical Insurance. The details of the directors are also placed on
record. There are only two directors in the company. One is
Respondent No. 8, and the other is Mr. Muhammed Mustafa. Mr.
Muhammed Mustafa has given a certificate that Respondent No. 8
worked on a child development project in the company from 2013 to
2021, and his job description includes development outcomes for every
child by promoting awareness, grading the children, conducting
counselling classes, etc. The Memorandum of Association of Limrah
Health Connection Pvt. Ltd. is on record. The main objects of the
company are health care services, medical tourism, health care research
activity, rural health care for mass, health education and others. As
pointed out by the Appellant, a company can undertake only those
activities mentioned in the Memorandum of Association.
Memorandum of Association proves that Limrah Health Connection
Pvt. Ltd. company has no work related to planning and administering
child welfare activities. 21. Therefore, all that is on record in respect of Respondent No. 8 is
that he is a Physiotherapist by profession, and he is one of the two
directors of one Limrah Health Connection Pvt. Ltd., a company in the
field of Medical Tourism and Medical Insurance. Except for this letter
of recommendation written by his colleague, the other director, saying
that he has experience, absolutely no details are on record regarding
the active work of Respondent No. 8, which were at least expected
when the Appellant had challenged the order. Material showing the
work referred to in the certificate could have been elaborated and W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -16- 2025:KER:13641

produced. Quite obviously, this certificate is not sufficient. The
Selection Committee has not bothered to scrutinise this aspect. 22. The Selection Committee has glossed over the crucial aspect of
the necessity of being actively involved in the activities. The reason
actual experience is insisted upon can be found in the scheme of the
Act of 2015, its Statement of Objects and Reasons. Article 15 of the
Constitution of India, inter alia, empowers the State to make special
provisions for children. Articles 39(e) and (f) , 45 , and 47 further
impose a responsibility on the State to ensure that all needs of children
are met and their basic human rights are protected. The United
Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by India on 11
December 1992, requires State Parties to undertake all appropriate
measures in respect of a child alleged or accused of violating any penal
law, including treatment of the child in a manner consistent with the
promotion of the child's sense of dignity and worth, reinforcing the
child's respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms of
others, and taking into account the child's age and the desirability of
promoting the child's reintegration and assuming a constructive role in
society. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act of
2000 was enacted to provide for the protection of children. The Act was amended in 2006 and 2011 to address implementation gaps and
make the law more child-friendly. However, several issues arose during
implementation, including increasing incidents of abuse of children in
institutions, inadequate facilities, poor quality of care and rehabilitation
measures in Homes, high pendency of cases, delays in adoption, etc. W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -17- 2025:KER:13641

The data collected by the National Crime Records Bureau establishes
that crimes committed by children in the said age group have increased.
Therefore, a need was felt for re-examination of the legal provision, and
the Act of 2015 was enacted. The Act of 2015 emphasizes the
enhanced role of the Child Welfare Committees and confers various
powers and duties. It is to perform these duties effectively that actual
involvement on the part of the members is insisted upon.
Unfortunately, the Selection Committee has not scrutinised whether
Respondent No. 8 has the requisite experience as mandated under the
Act of 2015 and the Rules of 2017. While adopting a pedantic
approach, the reason for prescribing actual involvement is lost sight of. 23. The State has placed neither the application form of Respondent
No. 8 nor the minutes of the Committee meeting before the Single
Judge or before us. Once the requisite experience is absent as
prescribed under the statute, there is no question of giving deference to
the wisdom of the Selection Committee. It is clear from the record that
Respondent No. 8 had produced no material stating that he was
actively involved in the activities pertaining to children. The record
itself demonstrates that Respondent No. 8 does not possess the
requisite experience as per Section 27(4) of the Act of 2015 read with
Rule 8(2) of the Rules of 2017, that is, the experience of seven years
having been actively involved and engaged in the measures relating to
child welfare. Therefore, the appointment of Respondent No. 8 is
liable to be quashed and set aside. 24. This brings us to the second component as to whether the W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -18- 2025:KER:13641

Appellant should be appointed. 25. As far as the Appellant's experience is concerned, the Appellant
has annexed all the requisite documents. The Appellant has contended
that he is a holder of an M.A. in Clinical Psychology, a PG Diploma in
Counselling Psychology, a PG Diploma in Life Skills Education, and a
B. Com. In the year 2022, he also passed an M. Phil. in Psychology. He
also has 28 years of experience in the Social Justice Department, of
which 10 years he worked in the Child Development Office under the
Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS). ICDS offices are
sanctioned by the Central Government, one for each block. In a block,
there are 35 to a maximum of 45 Anganwadis. The functions of the
Centres are planned, implemented and administrated by the Child
Development Office according to the guidelines of the Central and
State Governments. The qualifications of the Appellant have been
detailed in the reply affidavit, which reads as follows:- 2025:KER:13641

The Appellant has also stated as follows:- in administration/counselling / guidance for a period of 1
 year from June 2020 to June 2021." The Appellant's assertions regarding his experience are not denied in
the pleadings, though Respondent No. 8 in the oral argument
advanced some contentions. 26. Therefore, the Appellant has the requisite educational
qualifications, including an M.A. in Clinical Psychology. He has 28 W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -20- 2025:KER:13641

years of experience in the Women and Child Welfare Department
(erstwhile Social Justice Department), of which he had worked for 10
years in the Child Development Office under the Integrated Child
Development Scheme. He has worked with various Anganwadis and
has also worked with various Non-Governmental Organizations,
destitute homes for children and as a Councillor for students. We refer
to this experience only to emphasise that the Appellant possesses the
required experience of actual involvement that we have emphasised
and interpreted above. 27. The tenure of the Child Welfare Committee is for three years,
i.e. three years from the date of notification, i.e. from 16 June 2022 to
16 June 2025. As per Rule 9(4) of the Rules of 2017, any vacancy in
the Committee can be filled up by appointment of another person from
the panel, and the panel can continue for a period not exceeding three
years. Rule 9 reads thus:- (emphasis supplied)
Rule 9(4) of the Rules of 2017 states that any vacancy in the
Committee can be filled by appointment of another person from the
panel, and the panel continues for a period not exceeding three years.
The Appellant is already next in the select list. Three years of the list
prepared in June 2022 are not over. Under the statutory rule itself, the
Appellant is entitled to be appointed in case of a vacancy and therefore,
as a consequence of setting aside the appointment of Respondent No.
8, direction can be issued to the Respondent State to appoint the
Appellant who is on the select list as per Rule 9(4) of the Rules of
2017. 28. The Appellant has stated in the affidavit that having no proper
guidance, there was a delay. He stated that he had engaged Advocates
who initially did not join Respondent No. 8 as a party, which caused
time to be lost, and ultimately, the Appellant chose to appear in the
matter himself. The writ petition was filed on 26 June 2022,
immediately after the notification reconstituting the Child Welfare
Committees issued on 16 June 2022. The writ petition was disposed of
two years thereafter, on 2 September 2024. The appeal was filed on 27
September 2024, and when it came on Board, the learned counsel who
appeared for Respondent No. 8 before the learned Single Judge stated
that he had no instructions and notice had to be issued to Respondent
No. 8, and therefore, the matter has reached such a stage that despite
the Appellant approaching in time, out of three years, substantial W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -22- 2025:KER:13641

period is lost in this Court. However, it is the contention of the
Appellant that for the remaining period of the tenure, the Appellant be
appointed and also to vindicate the cause he has prosecuted. There is
no debate before us that the Appellant is immediately next on the
waiting list of the Child Welfare Committee members. The Appellant
has been found eligible and placed on the waiting list. As far as his
qualifications are concerned, the same cannot be disputed. Therefore,
there is no impediment to appoint him in the vacancy. 29. As a result of the discussion, the Appellant is entitled to succeed.
The impugned order passed by the learned Single Judge dated 2
September 2024 is quashed and set aside, and W.P.(C) No. 21014 of
2022 is allowed. The appointment of Respondent No. 8 as a member
of the Child Welfare Committee, Kollam, is quashed and set aside.
Consequently, the Appellant is declared eligible to be appointed as a
member of the Child Welfare Committee, Kollam. Respondent Nos. 1
and 2 shall issue necessary orders to the Appellant in that regard within
one week from today. 30. Before parting, we again emphasise the need to carefully select
members of the Child Welfare Committee. These Committees are a
crucial component for implementing the Juvenile Justice Act . The
purpose of establishing the Child Welfare Committee and its functions
requires its members to adopt a sensitive approach. The members must
have a deep understanding of the matters concerning children.
Therefore, a person actively involved in the health, education and
welfare activities of children through his experience can make a W. A. No. 1737 of 2024 -23- 2025:KER:13641

difference in the functioning of the Committee. Conversely, a person
lacking ground-level experience may hinder the effective functioning
of the Committee. The Juvenile Justice Act is more than a legal
framework; it is a protective mechanism for vulnerable children. The
members of the Child Welfare Committee make critical decisions on
shelter, adoption, foster care, and repatriation--decisions that shape
young lives. Therefore, the Selection Authority must give primacy to
those candidates with genuine, direct experience in child protection
work--whether through social work, psychology, rehabilitation
programs, or law enforcement. Only then can the Child Welfare
Committees function with the empathy, insight, and competence to
protect and support children in need. 31. The appeal is allowed in the above terms. Sd/- NITIN JAMDAR,
 CHIEF JUSTICE

 Sd/- S. MANU,
 JUDGE

Krj & Eb