of "plainly arguable" case in Shin-Etsu
 Chemical Co. Ltd. v. Aksh Optifiber Ltd. (2005) 7 SCC 234, are of importance and
 relevance. Similar views are expressed by this Vimal Kishor Shah v. Jayesh Dinesh Shah ,
 (2016) 8 SCC 788, wherein the test applied at
 the pre-arbitration stage was whether there is
 a "good arguable case" for the existence of an
 arbitration agreement. xxxx Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL Signing Date:09.08.2023 10:54:15 CS(OS) 371/2017 Page 28 of 48 138. In the Indian context, we would
 respectfully adopt the three categories in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara
 Polyfab (P) Ltd. , (2009) 1 SCC 267. The first
 category of issues, namely, whether the party
 has approached the appropriate High Court,
 whether there is an arbitration agreement and
 whether the party who has applied for
 reference is party to such agreement would be
 subject to more thorough examination in
 comparison to the second and third
 categories/issues which are presumptively,
 save in exceptional cases, for the arbitrator to
 decide. In the first category, we would add and
 include the question or issue relating to
 whether the cause of action relates to action in
 personam or rem; whether the subject-matter
 of the dispute affects third-party rights, have
 erga omnes effect, requires centralised
 adjudication; whether the subject-matter
 relates to inalienable sovereign and public
 interest functions of the State; and whether the
 subject-matter of dispute is expressly or by
 necessary implication non-arbitrable as per
 mandatory statute(s). Such questions arise
 rarely and, when they arise, are on most
 occasions questions of law. On the other hand,
 issues relating to contract formation,
 existence, validity and non-arbitrability would
 be connected and intertwined with the issues
 underlying the merits of the respective
 disputes/claims. They would be factual and
 disputed and for the Arbitral Tribunal to
 decide. 139. We would not like to be too prescriptive,
 albeit observe that the court may for legitimate
 reasons, to prevent wastage of public and
 private resources, can exercise judicial
 discretion to conduct an intense yet summary
 prima facie review while remaining conscious
 that it is to assist the arbitration procedure
 and not usurp jurisdiction of the Arbitral
 Tribunal. Undertaking a detailed full review
 or a long-drawn review at the referral stage
 would obstruct and cause delay undermining
 the integrity and efficacy of arbitration as a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL Signing Date:09.08.2023 10:54:15 CS(OS) 371/2017 Page 29 of 48 dispute resolution mechanism. Conversely, if
 the court becomes too reluctant to intervene, it
 may undermine effectiveness of both the
 arbitration and the court. There are certain
 cases where the prima facie examination may
 require a deeper consideration. The court's
 challenge is to find the right amount of and the
 context when it would examine the prima facie
 case or exercise restraint. The legal order
 needs a right balance between avoiding
 arbitration obstructing tactics at referral stage
 and protecting parties from being forced to
 arbitrate when the matter is clearly non-
 arbitrable. 140. Accordingly, when it appears that prima
 facie review would be inconclusive, or on
 consideration inadequate as it requires
 detailed examination, the matter should be left
 for final determination by the Arbitral
 Tribunal selected by the parties by consent.
 The underlying rationale being not to delay or
 defer and to discourage parties from using
 referral proceeding as a ruse to delay and
 obstruct. In such cases a full review by the
 courts at this stage would encroach on the
 jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal and
 violate the legislative scheme allocating
 jurisdiction between the courts and the
 Arbitral Tribunal. Centralisation of litigation
 with the Arbitral Tribunal as the primary and
 first adjudicator is beneficent as it helps in
 quicker and efficient resolution of disputes. 141. The court would exercise discretion and
 refer the disputes to arbitration when it is
 satisfied that the contest requires the Arbitral
 Tribunal should first decide the disputes and
 rule on non-arbitrability. Similarly, discretion
 should be exercised when the party opposing
 arbitration is adopting delaying tactics and
 impairing the referral proceedings. Appropriate in this regard, are observations of
 the Supreme Court of Canada in Dell
 Computer Corpn. v. Union des
 Consommateurs & Olivier Dumoulin 2007
 SCC OnLine Can SC 34, which read: xxxx 153. Accordingly, we hold that the expression
 "existence of an arbitration agreement" in Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, would
 include aspect of validity of an arbitration
 agreement, albeit the court at the referral
 stage would apply the prima facie test on the
 basis of principles set out in this judgment. In
 cases of debatable and disputable facts, and
 good reasonable arguable case, etc., the court
 would force the parties to abide by the
 arbitration agreement as the Arbitral Tribunal
 has primary jurisdiction and authority to
 decide the disputes including the question of
 jurisdiction and non-arbitrability. 154. Discussion under the heading "Who
 Decides Arbitrability?" can be crystallised as
 under: Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618 on the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL Signing Date:09.08.2023 10:54:15 CS(OS) 371/2017 Page 31 of 48 scope of judicial review by the court while
 deciding an application under Sections 8 or 11
 of the Arbitration Act , post the amendments by
 Act 3 of 2016 (with retrospective effect from
 23-10-2015) and even post the amendments
 vide Act 33 of 2019 (with effect from 9-8-
 2019), is no longer applicable. 154.2. Scope of judicial review and
 jurisdiction of the court under Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act is identical but
 extremely limited and restricted. 154.3. The general rule and principle, in view
 of the legislative mandate clear from Act 3 of
 2016 and Act 33 of 2019, and the principle of
 severability and competence-competence, is
 that the Arbitral Tribunal is the preferred first
 authority to determine and decide all questions
 of non-arbitrability. The court has been
 conferred power of "second look" on aspects
 of non-arbitrability post the award in terms of
 sub-clauses (i), (ii) or (iv) of Section 34(2)(a)
 or sub-clause (i) of Section 34(2)(b) of the
 Arbitration Act. 154.4. Rarely as a demurrer the court may
 interfere at Section 8 or 11 stage when it is
 manifestly and ex facie certain that the
 arbitration agreement is non-existent, invalid
 or the disputes are non-arbitrable, though the
 nature and facet of non-arbitrability would, to
 some extent, determine the level and nature of
 judicial scrutiny. The restricted and limited
 review is to check and protect parties from
 being forced to arbitrate when the matter is
 demonstrably "non-arbitrable" and to cut off
 the deadwood. The court by default would
 refer the matter when contentions relating to
 non-arbitrability are plainly arguable; when
 consideration in summary proceedings would
 be insufficient and inconclusive; when facts
 are contested; when the party opposing
 arbitration adopts delaying tactics or impairs
 conduct of arbitration proceedings. This is not
 the stage for the court to enter into a mini trial
 or elaborate review so as to usurp the
 jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal but to
 affirm and uphold integrity and efficacy of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL Signing Date:09.08.2023 10:54:15 CS(OS) 371/2017 Page 32 of 48 arbitration as an alternative dispute resolution
 mechanism." 48. Justice N.V. Ramana crystallised the principles as applicable to Sections 8 and 11 of the Act as under: 244.5. The scope of the court to examine the
 prima facie validity of an arbitration
 agreement includes only: 53. At the outset, it is to be noted that though the MoU claims to be
 executed only between the defendant no.1 and defendant no.3, it is
 signed by the other family members belonging to the two groups as
 well. Though the learned counsel for the plaintiff has sought to raise
 certain issues regarding her purported signatures on the MoU, I shall
 discuss the same separately in this judgment. For the present
 discussion, I shall proceed on the basis that the MoU is signed by the
 plaintiff as well. 54. The MoU records and details the immovable properties "owned
 by both the parties and their family members". It also states that the
 jewellery belonging to the parties to the MoU, their spouses, children
 and their spouses, except the Stridhan of the ladies, shall be valued
 and be divided amongst the parties in equal share. The MoU,
 therefore, relates also to the properties which may be standing in the
 name of the individual members of the family/group of family, and the
 plaintiff being one of the signatories thereto, would at least prima
 facie be bound by the terms thereof. The plaintiff, being the signatory
 thereto, would also and equally be bound by the Arbitration
 Agreement contained in the MoU. 55. In Encon Builders (supra), the Supreme Court laid down the
 following essential elements of an arbitration agreement:- 56. The plaintiff seeks to cast a doubt on her signatures appearing
 on the MoU by stating that she does not recollect appending her
 signatures on any documents giving away her properties. As there was
 no categorical denial of her signatures appearing on the MoU, this
 Court by its order dated 01.05.2023, gave another opportunity to the
 plaintiff to clearly state her case on the genuineness of her signatures
 on the MoU. The order dated 01.05.2023 is reproduced as under: 57. In purported compliance to the above order, the plaintiff has
 filed an affidavit dated 04.05.2023, stating as under: 58. A reading of the above would show that the plaintiff still does
 not categorically deny her signatures on the MoU. Only a vague
 assertion in this regard is being made. Applying the test of only a
 prima facie consideration at the stage of the Section 8 application, I
 therefore, find the denial of the plaintiff of her signatures appearing on
 the MoU to be prima facie not tenable and as not been offering a
 defence to her to oppose the present application. Prima facie, I find
 that the plaintiff has signed the MoU in token of acceptance of the
 terms thereof and is bound by the terms thereof, including the
 Arbitration Agreement. 59. The assertion of the plaintiff that she was not informed that the
 properties standing in her name were being made subject matter of the
 MoU, also cannot be accepted at this stage. Having appended her
 signatures to each and every page of the MoU, she cannot plead
 ignorance of the terms contained therein. 60. In Green Rubber Industries (supra) and Bharathi Knitting
 Company v. DHL Worldwide Express Courier Division of Airfreight
 Ltd. (1996) 4 SCC 704, the Supreme Court observed that a person
 who signed a document which contains contractual terms is normally
 bound by them, even though he had not read them or claims to be
 ignorant of the precise legal effect thereof. 61. The plaintiff also, therefore, does not meet the test of „fraud‟ by
 the above submissions so as to avoid the reference of the parties to
 arbitration. 62. In Vidya Drolia (Supra), the Supreme Court while considering
 the allegation of fraud or forgery as offering an exception to the
 reference of the parties to the arbitration, observed as under: to observe in Avitel Post Studioz Ltd: 74. The judgment in Avitel Post Studioz Ltd
 interprets Section 17 of the Contract Act to
 hold that Section 17 would apply if the
 contract itself is obtained by fraud or cheating.
 Thereby, a distinction is made between a
 contract obtained by fraud, and post- contract
 fraud and cheating. The latter would fall
 outside Section 17 of the Contract Act and,
 therefore, the remedy for damages would be
 available and not the remedy for treating the
 contract itself as void. xxxx 78. In view of the aforesaid discussions, we
 overrule the ratio in N.Radhakrishnan inter
 alia observing that allegations of fraud can
 (sic cannot) be made a subject matter of
 arbitration when they relate to a civil dispute.
 This is subject to the caveat that fraud, which
 would vitiate and invalidate the arbitration
 clause, is an aspect relating to non- arbitrability. We have also set aside the Full
 Bench decision of the Delhi High Court in the
 case of HDFC Bank Ltd v. Satpal Singh
 Bakshi 2012 SCC OnLine Del 4815, which
 holds that the disputes which are to be
 adjudicated by the DRT under the DRT Act are
 arbitrable. They are non-arbitrable." 63. In the present case, from the averments in the plaint, the
 plaintiff has not been able to make out a prima facie case of fraud,
 which would vitiate and invalidate the arbitration clause itself and,
 therefore, offer her a defence to the present application. Claims Barred by Limitation: 64. The plea of the learned counsel for the plaintiff that the MoU
 having been allegedly executed on 12.11.2014; the defendant no.3
 having issued the notice under Section 21 of the Act, albeit, only to
 defendant no.1 on 23.09.2015, while having filed the present
 application only on 09.10.2017, the claims of the defendant are barred
 by law of limitation and, therefore, the parties should not be referred
 to arbitration also has no merit. 65. In the present case, it is the plaintiff who has filed the present
 suit. The applicants as defendants, in view of the Arbitration
 Agreement, are entitled to file an application under Section 8 of the
 Act challenging the maintainability of the present suit and seeking a
 reference of the parties to arbitration. The only limitation contained in Section 8 of the Act is that such an application should have been filed
 not later than the date of submitting the first statement on the
 substance of the dispute by the applicant. It is not the case of the
 plaintiff that the applicants have fallen foul of the said provision. 66. In Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited & Anr. (Supra), the
 Supreme Court emphasised that limitation is normally a mixed
 question of facts and law and, therefore, would lie within the domain
 of the Arbitral Tribunal. It was held that the issue of limitation is an
 issue of admissibility of the claim and, therefore, should be left to be
 decided by the Arbitral Tribunal, either as a preliminary issue or at the
 final stage of the proceedings after respective evidence has been led
 by the parties. It is only in the very limited category of cases, where
 there is not even a vestige of doubt that the claim is ex facie time- barred that the Court may decline to make the references of the parties
 to Arbitration. 67. In the present case, as the application is under Section 8 of the
 Act, the only question before this Court is, whether the plaintiff is a
 party to the Arbitration Agreement, and whether the dispute falls
 within the ambit of the said Agreement. Both these questions are to be
 answered against the plaintiff and in favour of the applicants. 68. In Web Overseas Limited (Supra), the Court was considering
 the issue of whether the time spent by a party in pursuing its
 application under Section 8 of the Act was required to be excluded for
 considering whether its Counter-Claim was preferred within the
 period of limitation. The said issue will become relevant to the facts of
 the present case only when the applicants, on being referred to
 arbitration, choose to raise a Counter-Claim against the plaintiff in
 such proceedings. The said judgment, therefore, would have no
 application to the facts of the present case. 69. Similarly, in State of Goa v. Praveen Enterprises , (2012) 12
 SCC 581, the question before the Court was whether the Counter-
 Claim, in the absence of a notice under Section 21 of the Act, is
 maintainable or not. As noted herein above, the stage of considering
 this question has not arisen in the present case. Stamping and Registration of the MoU: 70. The learned counsel for the plaintiff further submits that the
 MoU in question is not admissible in evidence, as it is not properly
 stamped. She submits that the MoU seeks to create rights in the
 properties and would, therefore, amount to a conveyance under the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL Signing Date:09.08.2023 10:54:15 CS(OS) 371/2017 Page 43 of 48 Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (hereinafter referred to as the „ Indian Stamp
 Act ‟), requiring stamping on an ad valorem basis. Placing reliance on
 the judgment of the Supreme Court in N.N. Global Mercantile (P)
 Ltd. (Supra), she submits that till the MoU is properly stamped and the
 penalty thereon is paid, the same cannot be acted upon by this Court. 71. I am unable to agree with the above submission of the learned
 counsel for the plaintiff. While there is no doubt that in terms of the
 judgment of the Supreme Court in N.N. Global Mercantile (P) Ltd. (Supra), an Arbitration Agreement which is inadequately stamped
 cannot be admitted in evidence and, therefore, cannot be relied upon
 by the Court for referring the parties to arbitration, in the present case,
 the MoU bears the certificate of the Collectors of Stamp determining
 the stamp and the penalty payable on the MoU and certifying that the
 said amount stands paid thereon. In terms of Section 32(3) of the
 Indian Stamp Act, any instrument upon which such an endorsement
 has been made shall be deemed to be duly stamped and shall be
 admissible in evidence and can be acted upon as if it had been
 originally duly stamped. Section 32 of the Indian Stamp Act is
 reproduced hereinunder:- and, if chargeable with duty, shall be
 receivable in evidence or otherwise, and may
 be acted upon and registered as if it had been
 originally duly stamped: 72. The plea of the learned counsel for the plaintiff that the MoU is
 not admissible in evidence as it is not registered under the Registration
 Act, 1908 , is also ill-founded. As held by the Supreme Court in SMS
 Tea Estates Private Limited. v. Chandmari Tea Company Private
 Limited, (2011) 14 SCC 66, the Arbitration Agreement being
 severable from the main Agreement and being independent of the
 other terms of the document, even where the document is not
 registered Signature Not Verified but is compulsorily registrable, having regard to Section Digitally Signed By:SUNIL Signing Date:09.08.2023 10:54:15 CS(OS) 371/2017 Page 45 of 48 16(1)(a) of the Act, the Court can delink the Arbitration Agreement
 from the main document and can refer the parties to arbitration. 73. Therefore, even if the plea of the plaintiff of the MoU being
 compulsorily registrable is to be accepted, it can offer no defence to
 the plaintiff in the present application. 74. I may, however, note herein that the learned senior counsel for
 the applicants has submitted that as the MoU does not convey any title
 in the properties, the same is not compulsorily registrable. Though I
 prima facie find merit in the said submission, I have refrained from
 considering the said submission in detail as this issue is not relevant
 for the purposes of adjudication of the present application. This issue
 has to be necessarily left for consideration by the learned Arbitral
 Tribunal, which may be constituted on the parties being referred to
 arbitration. Defendant No. 8 not a signatory to the MoU: 75. The submission of the learned counsel for the plaintiff that the
 parties to the present suit cannot be referred to arbitration, as
 defendant no.8 is not a signatory to the MoU also cannot be accepted.
 It is relevant to note that the defendant no.8 is the daughter of the
 plaintiff and the defendant no.1. The prayers made in the suit have
 been reproduced hereinabove, which clearly show that the challenge
 of the plaintiff is to the validity of the MoU. Merely because she has
 chosen to implead the defendant no.8 as a party to the suit, she cannot
 be allowed to defeat the Arbitration Agreement. 76. In Ananthesh Bhakta (Supra), the Supreme Court in similar
 circumstances has observed as under:- Thus it was only Defendant 6 who was not
 party to the retirement deed or partnership
 deed. Both fifth and sixth defendants are issues
 of late M. Prakashchandra Bhakta. 31. The learned counsel for the respondents
 have submitted that it was case of the plaintiffs
 themselves that by virtue of the will executed
 by M. Prakashchandra Bhakta it was only
 Defendant 5 who became entitled to benefits of
 partnership and Defendant 6 was not given
 any share. 32. The plaintiffs admittedly are parties to the
 arbitration agreement as noted above. It does
 not lie in their mouth to contend that since one
 of the defendants whom they have impleaded
 was not party to the arbitration agreement, no Signature Not Verified reference can be made to the arbitrator. In the Digitally Signed By:SUNIL Signing Date:09.08.2023 10:54:15 CS(OS) 371/2017 Page 47 of 48 facts of the present case, it cannot be said that
 merely because one of the defendants i.e.
 Defendant 6 was not party to the arbitration
 agreement, the dispute between the parties
 which essentially relates to the benefits arising
 out of the retirement deed and partnership
 deed cannot be referred." CONCLUSION: CS(OS) 371/2017 & I.A. 9259/2017, 9261/2017, 9262/2017,
 9263/2017, 13079/2017, 13943/2018, 14202/2023 79. As the application filed by the defendant nos.3 to 6 under Section 8 of the Act has been allowed, accordingly the present suit is
 dismissed. 80. All pending applications are also disposed of as infructuous. NAVIN CHAWLA, J. AUGUST 08, 2023/rv/AS/rp Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL Signing Date:09.08.2023 10:54:15 CS(OS) 371/2017 Page 48 of 48