VIKAS MAHAJAN, J. 1. The present petitions have been filed under Section 439 of the Code
 of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter ‗ CrPC ') read with Section 45 of
 the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (hereinafter ‗the Act' or
 ‗PMLA') seeking grant of regular bail arising out of ECIR No. DLZO-
 II/15/2023 dated 07.02.2023 registered under Sections 3 & 4 of PMLA at
 P.S. E.D. Delhi Zone-II, pending before learned Special Court, PMLA,
 Central District, Tis Hazari Court, Delhi. 2. Since the present petitions have been filed by co-accused persons and
 the factual background, as well as the questions of law before this Court are
 on the same lines having arisen from the same complaint, all three bail
 petitions are being decided vide this common judgment. 3. The relevant facts giving rise to the present petitions are as follows: b. As per MLA, a person (victim) living in Leawood, Kansas,
 U.S.A. reported to the U.S. authorities that between August 14, 2022
 and August 15, 2022, crypto currencies worth approximately US$
 527,615.45 had been fraudulently transferred from the virtual currency
 addresses of the victim's Ledger Hardware Wallet. c. On 13.08.2022, the victim downloaded and installed the Ledger
 Live software, a companion software for managing crypto wallets like
 the Ledger Hardware Wallet maintained by the victim, from the internet
 onto a laptop. The victim, thereafter, connected the Ledger Hardware
 Wallet to the laptop and made certain cryptocurrency transactions
 through the said software. After completing the aforesaid transfers, the
 victim promptly disconnected the Hardware Wallet from laptop.
 d. On or about 14.08.2022, while the Hardware Wallet of the
 victim was disconnected, 0.995275351 Ethereum (hereinafter ‗ETH')
 valued at US$ 1,926.87, was fraudulently transferred from the wallet of
 the victim to the address Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 3 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 0xC992AE8D0994468e7CC45d0CE0E85ad4eade0cEb (hereinafter
 ‗0xC99...0cEb'). Thereafter, on the same day, 0.48349150649972 ETH
 valued at US$ 959.39 was transferred from ‗0xC99...0cEb' to the
 address 0x0380d5c5c23551a109f5d3aaf76ced9e65d96a24 (hereinafter
 ‗0x038...6a24') which is associated with India-based cryptocurrency
 exchange and trading platform WazirX. e. On 15.08.2022 as well, Ledger Hardware Wallet of the victim
 remained disconnected when 21.63831975 Bitcoins (hereinafter
 ‗BTC') valued at US$ 526,656.06 were again fraudulently transferred
 to the address bc1qlqmlw0e7cyljum6w8fn5c4he5462f2ckjtzl72
 (hereinafter ‗bc1ql...zl72') which is also associated with WazirX.
 f. The aforesaid transfers were confirmed by the investigators via
 blockchain analysis, and a request was made by them to WazirX to
 furnish the records pertaining to the account associated with
 ―0x038...6a24‖ and ―bc1ql...zl72‖. As per the information received
 from WazirX, it was found that both the said addresses were linked to
 an account belonging to petitioner/accused Vishal Moral bearing User
 ID 11093186, registered on 27.11.2021 with the email address [email protected] . WazirX also provided information regarding
 the IP addresses from where the said account was accessed at the time
 of the fraudulent transfers which were later found out to be hosted by
 Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited and Bharti Airtel Limited.
 g. Upon inspection of the laptop, onto which the victim had
 downloaded and installed the Ledger Live software on 13.08.2022, the
 U.S. Investigators identified a compressed folder with legitimate
 Ledger Live installer, a file containing installation instructions and a Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 4 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 file having a SHA1 hash that matched a known malware capable of
 obtaining credentials and other information such as private keys or seed
 phrases, from an infected computer. h. It is alleged that the said malware is known to be distributed to
 victims through websites that are designed to closely resemble the
 legitimate Ledger Live website. It is said that the U.S. Investigators
 have confirmed the victim had downloaded the malware from a website
 closely resembling the legitimate website of Ledger Live.
 i. After receipt of the MLA, ED was satisfied that the offences
 being investigated by the U.S. Department of Justice under their
 relevant laws correspond to Section 75 of the Information Technology
 Act, 2000 and Sections 420 & 424 IPC in India, which fall under the Schedule of the Act and therefore, recorded ECIR DLZO-II/15/2023
 dated 07.02.2023 for further investigation, search, seizure, attachment
 and confiscation of proceeds of crime under the Act. j. During investigation, ED received documents related to User
 ID 11093186 from WazirX vide letter dated 30.01.2023 which revealed
 that the said account, in fact, belonged to petitioner/accused Vishal
 Moral residing in Bangali Colony, Sant Nagar, Delhi-110084.
 k. Search was conducted under Section 17 PMLA at the residence
 of Vishal Moral. A mobile phone, laptop and Ledger Hardware Wallet
 along with cash amount of Rs.25,60,000 were seized from the premises
 of Vishal Moral. l. From the evidence collected by ED, including the chats
 recovered from the seized phone, it was revealed that the accused had
 been committing the said offences along with many individuals, Indian Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 5 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 and foreign nationals, including the co-accused/petitioners, Shivang
 Malkoti and Adnan Nisar who had been assisting Vishal Moral. During
 investigation, ED also found that the accused persons were converting
 the stolen cryptocurrency into cash and utilizing the same for various
 purposes including creation of immoveable assets. m. Summons were issued by the ED to the accused Vishal Moral
 under Section 50 of PMLA and his statements were recorded.
 Thereafter, Vishal Moral was placed under arrest on 26.04.2023 under Section 19 of PMLA. Likewise, summons were issued to Shivang
 Malkoti and Adnan Nisar as well. Subsequently, they were also arrested
 on 09.05.2023. n. Information regarding the aforesaid offences was shared with
 the Delhi Police which resulted in the registration of FIR No. 124/2023
 dated 10.05.2024 under Section 420 IPC and Section 66C of the
 Information Technology Act, 2000 at PS Special Cell, Delhi.
 o. Complaint Case No. 02/2023 under Sections 44 and 45 of
 PMLA was filed inter alia against the petitioners/accused Vishal Moral,
 Shivang Malkoti and Adnan Nisar, before the learned Special Court,
 Tis Hazari District Court, on 23.06.2023. p. Vide order dated 01.08.2023, the learned Additional Sessions
 Judge-03, Central District, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi took cognizance of
 the complaint filed by the Directorate of Enforcement and summoned
 the accused persons. q. Thereafter, on 16.08.2023, Adnan Nisar filed an application
 before the learned Special Court seeking retraction of his statements
 made under Section 50 PMLA. A similar application along with the Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 6 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 statement of retraction was filed by Shivang Malkoti which was taken
 on record by the Ld. ASJ vide order dated 16.09.2023. 4. The case of the prosecution as borne out from the complaint is that
 during investigation, stolen cryptocurrencies as mentioned in the MLA i.e.
 0.48349150649972 ETH and 21.63831975 BTC were confirmed to have
 been received on 14.08.2022 and 15.08.2022 in the account bearing User ID
 11093186 belonging to the accused/Vishal Moral. Further, it is their case
 that Vishal Moral has given inconsistent statements under Section 50 PMLA
 and has been unable to provide a legitimate source for the said amount. 5. As per complaint, Vishal Moral was associated with one Jack Let and
 a Turkish national who ran a scamming syndicate wherein there were four
 teams assigned to do specific tasks. First team used to develop malicious
 software; the second team used to do fake clicks on competitor's ads and
 websites (DDOS attack); the third team used to run and promote their own
 ads on websites and search engines (digital marketing); and the fourth team
 used to drain the wallets of the victims. Jack Let used to supervise the
 developer and fake clicks team while doing the draining himself. Vishal
 Moral was responsible for digital marketing. It is also the case of the
 prosecution that Shivang Malkoti and Jack Let used to supply Bing Ad
 accounts to Vishal Moral. One Mr. Murat @ Moorad from Turkey was head
 of the developer team and one Mr. Ghenry from Ukraine was heading the
 fake clicks team. After developing the malicious software, the second team
 used to execute ―DDOS attacks‖ on the legitimate ads and websites of the
 competitors to suppress them. Thereafter, the third team used to promote
 their own ads to reach maximum audience. Finally, the fourth team used to Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 7 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 drain the wallets and distribute shares from the proceeds to all the other
 teams. 6. It is stated in the complaint that co-accused/Shivang Malkoti,
 knowing fully well the intentions of Vishal Moral, assisted him by providing
 Bing Ad accounts for running crypto ads from September 2022 to March
 2023. Further, co-accused/Adnan Nisar is said to be assisting Vishal Moral
 in conversion of cryptocurrencies into cash between September 2022 to
 March 2023. 7. It is further stated that a portion of the proceeds of crime have been
 utilized by Vishal Moral in acquiring and setting up a liquor shop which is
 registered in the name of his brother, Lalit Moral. Lalit Moral has been
 unable to explain any legitimate source for the funds that were used to
 purchase the said shop. SUBMISSIONS 8. Mr. Amit Shukla, learned Counsel for the petitioner/accused Vishal
 Moral submits that the proceedings under Sections 3 & 4 of the Act initiated
 by the Respondent against the accused persons are contrary to law inasmuch
 as the learned Special Court, while taking cognizance of the complaint filed
 by ED and issuing summons to the accused persons, was not even aware of
 the identity of the victim, nor the MLA request sent by the U.S. authorities
 was filed by ED before the learned Court. He further submits that the
 learned Court was not even apprised of the contents of either the MLA
 request or the alleged complaint filed by the unknown victim in the United
 States, or the subsequent communications between the Government of India
 and the Respondent. He submits that the prosecution is also not aware of the
 contents of the alleged complaint in U.S. According to Mr. Shukla, the Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 8 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 learned Special Court mechanically took cognizance of the present case and
 issued summoning order without considering giving a prima facie finding as
 to what the complaint in the United States is about or its contents thereof. 9. Mr. Shukla submits that although MLA request sent by the U.S.
 Department of Justice has not been made available to accused persons, but
 as per the complaint of ED itself, assistance sought in the MLA request is
 limited to seizure and freezing of the WazirX accounts mentioned therein.
 However, ED has gone beyond the specific request in MLA by lodging the
 ECIR and initiating a separate investigation in India based on an offence
 committed abroad. 10. Relying upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vijay
 Madanlal Choudhary & Ors. vs. Union of India & Ors. , 2022 SCC OnLine
 SC 929, he submits that it is settled law that prosecution under the Act
 cannot be initiated on notional basis and upon an assumption that a
 scheduled offence has been committed. He submits that in the present case,
 there is nothing on record before the learned Special Court to establish
 existence of a scheduled offence. He further relies on the judgment of P.
 Chidambaram vs. Directorate of Enforcement , (2019) 9 SCC 24 to contend
 that registration of a scheduled offence is a sine qua non for an offence
 under the Act. 11. Referring to Section 2(1)(y) of the Act, Mr. Shukla submits that
 scheduled offences are only those that are listed in the Schedule of PMLA.
 He submits that as per the case of prosecution, predicate offence is being
 investigated by the U.S. Attorney's office for the District of Kansas in the
 United States of America and relying upon the same as the scheduled
 offence under Part C of the Schedule, ED has initiated its own proceedings Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 9 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 in India. He submits that for an offence to be read into Part C of the
 Schedule, two conditions need to be satisfied. Firstly, the offence must be of
 cross border implications as defined under Section 2(1)(ra) of PMLA.
 Secondly, it should be mentioned in Part A of the Schedule or under Chapter
 XVII of IPC . He submits that even if it is accepted that the alleged offence
 has been committed abroad and the proceeds of the crime have been
 transferred to India, bringing the offence under the definition of cross border
 implications, the second condition under Part C of the Schedule is still not
 satisfied as the alleged predicate offence under the U.S. statute is neither
 specified under Part A nor under Chapter XVII of IPC . 12. He submits that ED has relied upon Section 2(1)(ia) of PMLA which
 recognizes the laws of foreign countries that correspond to the provisions of
 the Act and scheduled offences. He submits that it is the case of the
 prosecution that the predicate offences in U.S. correspond to the offences
 mentioned in Part A of the Schedule. However, he points out that the phrase
 ‗corresponding law' has only been used 11 times in the PMLA, and the
 legislature has been quite specific as to where the said phrase is to be used.
 Elaborating further, he submits that the phrase has exclusively been
 mentioned in provisions which are in relation to attachment and not in those
 relating to penal action under Sections 3 & 4 . He, therefore, contends that
 the legislative intent behind limiting the use of ‗corresponding law' in the
 Act to the provisions for attachment is to enable the relevant authority in
 India to seize and protect the proceeds of crime of an offence committed
 abroad till the investigation and trial in the foreign country is concluded. He
 contends that contingent upon the agreements between the two countries, the
 contracting state may request Indian authorities to confiscate the proceeds, Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 10 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 and the provisions of the Act would merely allow the Indian authority to
 recognize the foreign law and exercise the limited power of safeguarding the
 proceeds of crime that have travelled to Indian territory. 13. Without prejudice to above contention, he submits that if
 corresponding laws in foreign countries are construed to be included under
 Part C of the Schedule, then ED will have to prove the said law as a matter
 of fact and to further establish that provisions invoked in U.S., correspond to
 Indian enactments/provisions mentioned in the Schedule. He submits that in
 complaint, the ED has not even quoted the alleged corresponding law.
 Merely certain sections of a Code in the U.S. have been mentioned and it is
 stated that they correspond to Sections 420 and 424 of IPC as well as Section 75 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 in India. 14. He further submits that if corresponding law is interpreted to be
 within the ambit of the Schedule, as mooted by the prosecution, then
 provisions like Section 44(1)(c) would be rendered otiose. Relying upon the
 decision in Rana Ayyub vs. Directorate of Enforcement , (2023) 4 SCC 357,
 he submits that under the said section, if the scheduled or predicate offence
 is being tried by a Court other than the Special Court which has taken
 cognizance of the offence under PMLA, then upon application, the
 scheduled offence may be transferred and tried alongside the offence under
 PMLA by the same Special Court. He submits that in the present case, since
 the trial of the predicate offence is being held in the Court at Kansas, U.S.A.
 and cannot be transferred to the Special Court in India, therefore, the
 provisions of Section 44(1)(c) would become redundant in such a situation,
 which cannot be the intent of the legislature. 15. Mr. Shukla invites the attention of this Court to Chapter IX of PMLA.
 He submits that the Chapter is entitled ―Reciprocal Arrangement for
 Assistance in Certain Matter and Procedure for Attachment and
 Confiscation of Property‖. As per Section 56 of the said Chapter, the Central
 Government may enter into an agreement with a foreign country for
 enforcement of the provisions of the Act and for exchange of information
 with regard to the offences under the Act or corresponding laws or
 investigation relating to the laws under the Act. Under Section 58 , the
 contracting foreign country may send a letter of request to the Central
 Government seeking assistance in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
 After receipt of a letter of request from a contracting state, the Central
 Government is bound by Section 61 of PMLA to forward the said request to
 the concerned Court in India. He submits that in breach of the entire
 Chapter, no part of the request was sent to the Court, rather the MLA request
 was directly forwarded to ED. He submits that assuming arguendo that an
 offence of cross border implications has been committed, in such a situation
 sanction of the Central Government was required under Section 188 of
 CrPC, which has not been obtained. 16. He refers to paragraph 3.2 of the complaint filed before the learned
 Special Court. He submits that it is the case of the prosecution that on 14th
 of August 2022, approximately 0.9952 ETH which is valued at around US$
 1,926 was transferred from the account of the victim to an address
 admittedly not associated with Vishal Moral. He submits that as per the
 complaint, out of the said amount approximately 0.48 ETH valued at around
 US$ 959 was transferred to the account of Vishal Moral. He further submits
 that according to the complaint, another transaction on 15th of August 2022 Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 12 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 took place wherein approximately 21.63 BTC were transferred from the
 account of the victim to the account of Vishal Moral. He points out that it is
 the case of the prosecution itself that the second transaction relating to
 Bitcoin was an act of theft. He submits that the first transaction relating to
 Ethereum is the only transfer that can be considered as the laundered
 amount, if any, whereby the total amount was first transferred to an account
 abroad and then a small portion came to the account of Vishal Moral.
 Therefore, he presses that as per the prosecution's own case, the alleged
 amount of US$ 959 which converts to approximately Rs.80,000/- is the only
 amount which can be considered proceeds of crime, if any. 17. He submits that the second transaction, which pertains to the transfer
 of Bitcoins valued at approximately Rs.4,00,00,000/- cannot, by any
 imagination, fall under Section 3 of PMLA. He contends that an offence
 under Section 3 of the PMLA consists of three steps, i.e. placement, layering
 and integration. He argues that any amount obtained through commission of
 theft or robbery cannot be termed as money laundering as the same would
 entail that every financial offence will attract the rigors of PMLA, which
 cannot be the intent of the legislature. 18. He contends that the said crypto currencies have not even come to the
 hands of Vishal Moral as he did not have access to the account after the
 commission of the alleged offence. Adverting to the email exchanges from
 19.08.2022 onwards between Vishal Moral and WazirX, he submits that the
 WazirX account in which the crypto currencies were allegedly received has
 subsequently been frozen. 19. Furthermore, he submits although ED has mentioned the value of
 Ethereum and Bitcoins that are the subject matter of the complaint, however, Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 13 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 they have not provided the basis of such calculation. No data in this regard
 has been produced before this Court nor before the learned Special Court.
 ED has merely relied upon the MLA request and the calculations made by
 the U.S. authorities without any application of mind. He submits that in the
 context of United States of America, crypto currencies are valid currencies,
 however, in India, crypto currencies are not recognized as valid legal tender,
 they merely have notional value. He submits that determining the actual
 value of the alleged proceeds of crime is pertinent in view of the provisions
 of PMLA. He submits that the twin conditions envisaged under Section 45 for grant of bail are only applicable in cases where the laundered amount is
 Rs.1 crore or more. It is his contention that given the alleged laundered
 amount is only to the extent of Rs.80,000/-, the twin conditions are not
 applicable in the present case. 20. Mr. Tanveer Ahmed Mir, learned counsel for the petitioners/co-
 accused Adnan Nisar and Shivang Malkoti, invites the attention of this Court
 to the FIR bearing No.124/2023 dated 10.05.2023. He submits that the
 predicate offence has been lodged after the arrest of the petitioners on
 09.05.2023 by the ED. Relying upon the judgment in Vijay Madanlal
 Choudhary (supra) he contends that scheduled offence must already be
 registered with the jurisdictional police or pending enquiry by way of a
 complaint before the competent forum pursuant to which the ED can
 proceed to investigate an offence under Sections 3 & 4 of PMLA. He further
 relies upon Prakash Industries Limited vs. Union of India & Anr. , 2023
 SCC OnLine Del 336. 21. He submits that ED has not been able to establish commission of the
 predicate offence qua Shivang Malkoti and Adnan Nisar. He submits that the Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 14 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 prosecution has purported in the FIR that the predicate offence has been
 committed under Section 66C of the IT Act. The ingredients of Section 66C include fraudulent or dishonest use of electronic signature, password or any
 other unique identification feature of any other person and admittedly, no
 such acts have been committed by the petitioners. 22. He further submits that it is the admitted position of the prosecution,
 as well as the U.S. Authorities, that the petitioners at no point of time have
 ever interacted with the victim based out of USA or had made any
 representations in any manner to him to cause any kind of deceit or fraud by
 any means, therefore, there cannot be a question of the petitioners having
 cheated the victim. He submits that admittedly, the petitioners were not
 involved in either development of the malicious software, or fake clicks on
 competitor's ad website, or running advertisements on the websites/search
 engines, or draining the wallets/accounts of victims. 23. He submits that the allegation of the prosecution that Shivang Malkoti
 was responsible for running crypto ads on Bing search engine has no merit
 inasmuch as Bing does not permit advertisements relating to
 cryptocurrencies and cryptocurrency related products including, but not
 limited to initial coin offerings, cryptocurrency exchanges and
 cryptocurrency wallets. He points out that till date no advertisement
 accounts have been recovered by the prosecution. 24. Mr. Mir submits that with respect to the allegation of converting
 cryptocurrency to cash by Adnan Nisar, the prosecution has not divulged any
 incriminating material indicating that he assisted Vishal Moral or anyone
 else in conversion of stolen cryptocurrencies to cash, besides certain
 WhatsApp/Telegram chats which the prosecution claims to be between the Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 15 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 petitioner and Vishal Moral. That apart, the prosecution also relies on
 statements of the co-accused persons, which thereafter stand retracted. 25. He submits that the WhatsApp/Telegram chats placed on record by
 the prosecution do not establish the identity of the persons involved in the
 chat and whether it is, in fact, Adnan Nisar in conversation with Vishal
 Moral. Without prejudice, even if it is assumed that Adnan Nisar is the
 person in the chat, he submits that the chats merely reveal that it was Vishal
 Moral who asked the petitioner to get in touch with some unknown person
 and collect their cryptocurrency IDs. He submits that there is no evidence to
 indicate that the petitioner/Adnan Nisar at any point knew the identity of the
 aforementioned traders, their locations, their business operations, or any of
 their agents/associates. He submits that the petitioner had no knowledge of
 the length and breadth of the business operation of the main accused/Vishal
 Moral. He further submits that WhatsApp/Telegram chats are virtually
 verbal communications which are a matter of evidence with regard to their
 meaning and its contents are to be proved during trial. In this regard, he
 places reliance in the judgment of Ambalal Sarabhai Enterprise Limited vs.
 KS Infraspace LLP Limited &Anr. , (2020) 5 SCC 410. 26. Mr. Mir submits that it cannot be said that any act of money
 laundering under Sections 3 & 4 of PMLA have been committed by the
 petitioners from the point of view of criminal mens rea, broad probabilities
 as well as there being any reasonable material on record. He submits that the
 allegation against Shivang Malkoti is to the effect that he was working with
 Vishal Moral for the purpose of promotion of ads. He submits that Shivang
 Malkoti was at best, working on a limited professional basis with the main
 accused for promotion of ads. There is no evidence on record to indicate that Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 16 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 Shivang Malkoti had any knowledge of Vishal Moral's other activities, and
 the prosecution has not recovered any formal account statements or digital
 wallet ledgers, let alone any proceeds to show that he is a beneficiary to the
 alleged offence. He submits that the entire investigation rests upon the
 WhatsApp chats. He places reliance on the judgments in Pooja Singh vs.
 Directorate of Enforcement , 2023 SCC OnLine Del 5285 and Pinky Irani
 vs. State (NCT of Delhi), 2023 SCC OnLine Del 6722 to contend that this
 Hon'ble Court, at the stage of bail, is only required to examine whether the
 accused/petitioners were possessed of the requisite mens rea. 27. He submits that with respect to the hawala activities alleged to have
 been performed by Adnan Nisar, it would only amount to commercial
 activities as the case of the prosecution is that he merely received crypto
 currency IDs sent by traders to Vishal Moral. Without prejudice, he submits
 that even if it is assumed as per the allegations of prosecution, that Adnan
 Nisar has received proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs.1,70,000/-, since
 there are no allegations of money laundering against him apart from receipt
 of the said financial benefit, it would be a perversity of justice to continue
 his pre-trial incarceration. Reliance is placed on the judgment in Hartej
 Singh vs. State of Punjab & Anr. , 2023 SCC OnLine P & H 6651. 28. Mr. Mir argues that the registration of ECIR has not been done in
 compliance with Section 58 of PMLA and Section 188 of CrPC. The
 mandate of Section 58 requires that the letter of request received by the
 Central Government from a contracting state must be forwarded to the
 Special Court or any authority under the Act for execution of such request. 29. He further submits that the prosecution has relied on the statements of
 the accused persons under Section 50 of PMLA to establish the involvement Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 17 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 of the petitioners. He submits that in the case of Preeti Chandra vs.
 Enforcement Directorate , 2023 SCC OnLine Del 3622, this Court has held
 that the statements recorded under Section 50 can only be analyzed once the
 parties have entered the witness box. Further, in Manish Sisodia vs.
 Directorate of Enforcement , 2023 SCC OnLine Del 3770, this Court held
 that although the statements recorded under Section 50 of PMLA are
 admissible in evidence, however, their evidentiary value has to be weighed
 at the time of trial. He submits that at this stage, evidence cannot be
 appreciated meticulously, and the statements cannot be taken as gospel truth,
 only broad probabilities have to be considered. Learned counsel for the
 petitioners also brings attention of this Court to the judgment in Sanjay Jain
 vs. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 SCC OnLine Del 1656, wherein it
 was held by this Court that statement of co-accused under Section 50 of
 PMLA is not a substantive piece of evidence and can only be used for the
 purpose of corroboration in support of other evidence to lend assurance to
 the Court in arriving at a conclusion of guilt. He submits that even
 otherwise, the statements under Section 50 have subsequently been retracted
 and are not reliable to form a basis of the guilt of the petitioners for the
 offences as alleged. Moreover, it is his submission that any statements made
 under Section 50 post arrest would be in the teeth of Article 20(3) of
 Constitution of India, rendering the said statements inadmissible in
 evidence. 30. Lastly, he submits that merely because of the gravity of offence, bail
 cannot be denied. He submits that the petitioners are not at risk to tamper
 with any evidence or influence any witnesses. He submits that no useful
 purpose would be served by further incarceration of the petitioners. He Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 18 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 submits that the constitutional right to a speedy trial must be protected in
 view of the fact that trial is likely to take a long time. 31. Per contra, Mr. Zoheb Hossain, learned Special Counsel for the
 respondent opposes the contention of the learned counsel for the petitioners
 that there is no scheduled offence in the present case. During the course of
 arguments, he handed over a copy of the MLA Request in a sealed cover.
 Taking the Court through the contents of the MLA, Mr. Hossain submits that
 the said document mentions at several places that the U.S. Attorney's Office
 for the District of Kansas is investigating Vishal Moral for the offences
 enumerated therein. Moreover, in the first paragraph of the MLA itself, it is
 stated that the assistance requested is ―to obtain evidence for use in a
 criminal investigation and any related proceedings.‖ He submits that
 investigation, across the world, is a corollary to registration of a complaint
 and requisite provisions having been triggered. 32. He submits that a seizure warrant has also been issued by the United
 States District Court for the District of Kansas in respect of the entire
 contents of the WazirX account bearing user ID 11093186 held in the name
 of Vishal Moral. He submits that a copy of the said warrant has been sent
 along with the MLA. Therefore, he submits, the counsel for the petitioners
 cannot presume that there is no corresponding scheduled offence in the US
 as the information collected by the U.S. Authorities regarding details of
 Vishal Moral have been corroborated by ED and the said information could
 not have been obtained without investigation into the offences. 33. He further invites the attention of this Court to the ‗Treaty Between
 The Government of The Republic of India and The Government of The
 United States of America On Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters' Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 19 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 (hereinafter ‗Treaty'). He submits that the preamble of the Treaty expressly
 provides the intent of the said Treaty which is to extend assistance to each
 other with investigation, prosecution, prevention and suppression of crimes
 relating to inter alia economic crimes. He further relies on Article I of the
 Treaty wherein it is contemplated that the contracting states shall provide the
 widest measure of mutual assistance to each other in connection with the
 investigation, prosecution, prevention and suppression of offences. He
 submits that once the Government of India has received a request for legal
 assistance under the Treaty and decides to act upon it, exercise of such
 discretion by the government and its powers under the Treaty cannot be
 questioned by the petitioners. 34. He submits that as held in Vijay Madanlal (supra), PMLA is a sui
 generis legislation, and it is directly traceable to Entry 13 & 14 of List I in
 the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. He brings the attention of this
 Court to the preamble of the Act which states that the enactment of the
 legislation is in furtherance of the global efforts to fight the menace of
 money laundering. He submits that therefore, the intent of the legislation can
 solely be interpreted as being so that the entire regime of PMLA would get
 triggered upon receipt of information that an offence has been committed in
 the jurisdiction of a contracting state and the proceeds of such offence have
 reached India. He elaborates that by virtue of the proceeds having travelled
 in Indian jurisdiction, the standalone offence of money laundering would be
 deemed to be committed in India as well. 35. In support of the above contention, he further invites the attention of
 the Court to Section 2(1)(ra) of PMLA which provides for two separate
 scenarios in respect of offences of cross border implications. First, when the Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 20 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 offence has been committed outside India and the proceeds therefrom have
 been transferred to India and second, when the offence has been committed
 in India and the proceeds have travelled outside India. 36. Mr. Hossain controverts the argument of the petitioners that the phrase
 ―corresponding law‖ has been used in the PMLA only under those sections
 that relate to attachment and not Sections 3 & 4 . In addition to the above, he
 submits that the request of the U.S. Authorities in the MLA is to obtain
 evidence and when such a request is received, the ED is empowered to do
 everything required to gather all evidence that may be available. He submits
 that arrest is an inherent part of investigation for the purpose of collection of
 evidence and in support places reliance in the judgements of H.N. Rishbud
 vs. State (Delhi Admn. ), (1954) 2 SCC 934 and P. Chidambaram (supra). 37. Without prejudice to the aforestated contentions, he submits that once
 a scheduled offence is brought to the attention of the ED, the exclusive
 jurisdiction over investigation of money laundering in respect of the said
 scheduled offence has been given to ED under the PMLA. Mr. Hossain
 refers to Section 2(2) of PMLA which provides that ―any reference, in this
 Act or the Schedule, to any enactment or any provision thereof shall, in
 relation to an area in which such enactment or such provision is not in force,
 be construed as a reference to the corresponding law or the relevant
 provisions of the corresponding law, if any, in force in that area.‖ He
 submits that in the present case, since the Indian Penal Code , 1860 is not in
 force in the U.S., but offences akin to cheating under Section 420 of IPC
 have been committed in US jurisdiction, then it must be construed that a
 scheduled offence under a corresponding law has been committed in the
 U.S. In this regard, he places reliance on the judgment of the Hon'ble High Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 21 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 Court of Jammu & Kashmir in Ahsan Ahmad Mirza & Ors. vs.
 Enforcement Directorate & Anr. , 2019 SCC OnLine J&K 1026. He
 submits that the ambit of Section 2(2) is wide enough to read foreign laws
 within the meaning of corresponding law. He therefore submits that upon
 receipt of the information regarding the same by ED through the MLA
 request, the entire provisions of PMLA would get triggered. 38. It is his submission that only the offence of money laundering is being
 investigated by the ED in India and not the predicate offence. Since the
 proceeds of crime have travelled to the jurisdiction of ED, as a result the
 offence of money laundering has also occurred in its jurisdiction. 39. He submits that the arguments raised by the petitioners with respect to
 the veracity of the statements under Section 50 of the Act, are all liable to be
 rejected as it is well settled that such statements are admissible and can be
 relied upon at the stage of remand or even to reject bail. In this regard, he
 places reliance on the judgments in Vijay Madanlal (supra), Tarun Kumar
 vs. Directorate of Enforcement , 2023 SCC OnLine Del 4173, Tarun
 Kumar vs. Directorate of Enforcement, 2023 SCC OnLine Del 1486, Rohit
 Tandon vs. Directorate of Enforcement, (2018) 11 SCC 46, Amanatullah
 Khan vs. Directorate of Enforcement, 2024 SCC OnLine Del 1658,
 Satyendar Kumar Jain vs. Directorate of Enforcement, 2023 SCC OnLine
 Del 1953, and Satyendar Kumar Jain vs. Directorate of Enforcement,
 (2024) 6 SCC 715. He submits that merely by way of filing belated
 applications for retraction, the said statements cannot be resiled from and
 such a retraction is a matter of trial. At this stage, a mini trial cannot be
 conducted. 40. With respect to the admissibility of the WhatsApp/Telegram chats, he
 submits that the said chats have been retrieved from the mobile phone of
 Vishal Moral during search at his residence and extraction from the said
 mobile phone was carried out by the cyber lab of ED. Panchnama was duly
 drawn and the same have now been sent for forensic analysis. He further
 submits that it is well settled law that at the stage of bail, this Court does not
 have to go into the credibility or reliability of the evidence. He submits that
 at this stage, this Court need only consider whether based on the material
 available on record, there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
 person may not be guilty of the offence. He places reliance in the judgment
 of Gurcharan Singh & Ors., vs. State (Delhi Administration ), (1978) 1
 SCC 118, Mohan Singh vs. Union Territory, (1978) 2 SCC 366, Satish
 Jaggi vs. State of Chhattisgarh, (2007) 11 SCC 195, Vijay Madanlal (supra), CBI vs. V. Vijay Sai Reddy , (2013) 7 SCC 452. 41. Mr. Hossain, in response to the contention of the learned counsel for
 the petitioners that foreign law relied upon by the prosecution as the
 scheduled offence will have to be proved during trial, submits that public
 documents of foreign countries are to be proved in accordance with Section
 78(6) of the Evidence Act, 1872. 42. Lastly, Mr. Hosssain submits that the apprehension of the petitioners
 that the trial is likely to take a long time is not well founded. In light of the
 judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Tarun Kumar (supra), he
 submits that the nature of offence in the present case, which is a
 sophisticated cryptocurrency fraud, committed by only a few clicks of a
 button, it cannot be said that the petitioners are not likely to commit any Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 23 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 offence while on bail. He submits that Section 436A of CrPC is a sufficient
 safeguard available to the petitioners. 43. Mr. Vivek Gurnani, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the ED
 brought to the notice of the Court the incriminating material contained in the
 relied upon documents. 44. While reserving the present judgment, inadvertently judgment was
 also reserved in connected petitions i.e. Crl.M.C. 6730/2023 and W.P.(Crl.)
 2789/2023, which were continuously being listed with the captioned bail
 applications, despite no arguments having been addressed by the parties on
 the said petitions. Accordingly, the matters including aforesaid Crl.M.C. and
 Writ Petitions were listed for clarification on 06.09.2023. The learned
 counsel for parties were ad idem that they had confined their submissions
 only to the bail applications and no arguments were addressed qua Crl.M.C.
 and Writ Petitions. The said two petitions were thus, released and directed to
 be listed before the Roster Bench. 45. Mr. Mir on 06.09.2023 also sought to place before this Court the
 recent judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in (i) Ramkripal Meena vs.
 Directorate of Enforcement, 2024 SCC OnLine 2276; ( ii) Manish Sisodia
 vs. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1920; and ( iii) Prem
 Prakash vs. Union of India through the Directorate of Enforcement, 2024
 SCC OnLine SC 2270. Accordingly, all the parties were allowed to make
 their further submissions confined only to the said decisions. 46. I have heard the learned counsel for the petitioners, as well as the
 learned Special Counsel for the ED and have perused the material on record. 47. The point wise analysis of the rival contentions of the learned counsel
 for the parties is as under: 48. The registration of a scheduled offence with the jurisdictional police
 and/or pending investigation or trial, including by way of criminal complaint
 before the competent forum, is a sine qua non for prosecution of any person
 under the PMLA. The authorities under the PMLA cannot prosecute any
 person on notional basis or on the assumption that a scheduled offence has
 been committed1. 49. It is the case of the respondent/ED that scheduled offence in the
 present case has been committed in the United States of America and the ED
 had received a Mutual Legal Assistance (MLA) request from the U.S.
 Department of Justice, Washington, stating that the petitioner/accused Vishal
 Moral, an Indian national has committed an offence under the U.S. statutes
 mentioned therein, which according to the ED, correspond to Section 75 of
 IT Act, 2000 and Sections 420 and 424 of IPC. 50. It is also the case of the ED that the victim of the offence was
 navigated to a malicious website closely resembling that of ‗Ledger Live',
 containing a malware, with the aid of which Ethereum and Bitcoins were
 transferred from the address of victim's Ledger Hardware Wallet to the
 petitioner/accused Vishal Moral's account maintained with WazirX in India,
 in violation of U.S. laws. It is thus, the case of the ED that the offence
 committed in U.S. has cross border implications. 51. The expression "offence of cross border implications" has been
 defined under Section 2(1)(ra) of the PMLA to mean - (emphasis supplied) 52. Clearly, offences having cross border implications contemplated
 under the above quoted provision are of two categories. First, when any
 offence has been committed at a place outside India which would have
 constituted an offence specified in Part A, Part B or Part C of the Schedule
 had it been committed in India, and the proceeds have been transferred to
 India; and second when the Scheduled offence has occurred in India and the
 proceeds have travelled to a place outside India. For the purpose of present
 case, first category defined in sub-clause (i) of Section 2(1)(ra) is of
 relevance, since the case of ED is that proceeds of crime have been
 transferred from the account of victim in U.S. to the account of
 petitioner/accused Vishal Moral in India. 53. Section 2(1)(y) of PMLA defines scheduled offence to mean offences
 specified under the Schedule of PMLA. The Schedule has been trifurcated
 into Part A, Part B and Part C. The ED's case is that offences committed
 under U.S. laws are being investigated by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the
 District of Kansas in the United States of America and treating the same as a
 predicate offence under Part C of the Schedule, it has registered a case under Sections 3 and 4 of the PMLA in India and initiated proceedings thereunder. 54. At this juncture, apposite would it be to refer to Part C of the
 Schedule, the relevant extract of which reads thus: 55. A bare reading of Part C of the Schedule shows that it encompasses
 offences specified under Part A, if the said offences have cross border
 implications. Further, all the offences against property under Chapter XVII
 of IPC having cross border implications also become scheduled offences
 under the Act. In other words, some of the offences included under Chapter
 XVII, which are though not included in Part A like theft, will become
 scheduled offences by virtue of Part C, if they have cross border
 implications.2 56. In the second category described under sub-clause (ii) of Section
 2(1)(ra) there is no confusion as the predicate offence occurs inside the
 territory of India, therefore, the laws mentioned in the Schedule would
 directly be applicable. However, the conundrum needs to be resolved in
 case of first category specified under sub-clause (i) of Section 2(1)(ra) as
 neither the offences enumerated under Part A, nor the IPC are globally
 enacted provisions, rather each foreign country has its own laws inside its 2 Pavna Dibbur (supra) Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 27 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 territory, albeit they may have similarities with the laws in other
 jurisdictions. To reconcile this situation reference may be had to Section
 2(1)(ia) which defines the expression ―corresponding law‖ as well as sub-
 section (2) of Section 2 of PMLA which provides as to when any reference
 to the Scheduled offence under the Act can be construed as reference to the
 ―corresponding law‖. The said provisions read thus: 57. Expression ‗area' in Section 2(2) has not been defined under the Act.
 However, the definition of ‗corresponding law' has been inserted by an
 amendment of 2013 which clarifies the position that corresponding law
 would mean any law of any foreign country dealing with the offences of that
 country which correspond to the scheduled offences. Therefore, by virtue of
 the definition of ‗corresponding law' it is clear that expression ‗area' in sub-
 section (2) of Section 2 of PMLA would also mean ‗any foreign country'.
 The effect of the said sub-section is that it creates a deeming fiction wherein
 the corresponding law of any foreign country dealing with the offences in
 that country will have to be read into the schedule of PMLA. 58. Further, a conjoint reading of Section 2(2) ; Section 2(1)(ia) ; Section
 2(1)(ra) and Part C of the Schedule, makes it plain that if an offence has
 been committed in a foreign country under the laws of that country, the same Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 28 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 can be treated as a predicate offence provided such offence corresponds to
 any of the offences specified under Part C of the PMLA and it has cross
 border implications in the sense that the proceeds of such crime has travelled
 to India. 59. Therefore, there is no substance in the submission of Mr. Amit
 Shukla, the learned counsel for the petitioner/accused Vishal Moral that
 expression ‗corresponding law' has been used only in relation to the
 provisions providing for attachment to enable the relevant authority in India
 to seize and protect the proceeds of crime of an offence committed abroad
 till the investigation and trial in the foreign country is concluded, and the
 same is not to be read in the context of initiating penal action in India under Sections 3 and 4 of the PMLA. 60. This Court also does not find merit in the contention of Mr. Shukla
 that since the trial of the alleged predicate offence is being held in the Court
 at Kansas, U.S.A. and the same cannot be transferred to the Special Court in
 India, therefore, the provisions of Section 44(1)(c) would become redundant
 in such a situation, which cannot be the intent of legislature. The Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) has held that the
 provision of Section 44(1)(c) of the Act only bestow enabling power on the
 Special Court to examine the request of the Authority authorised for transfer
 of trial to predicate offence to itself and such request will be examined on
 case-to-case basis. Thus, the provision is not mandatory. In the context of a
 predicate offence under the corresponding law of a foreign country, the same
 can only be tried as per the procedure in force in that foreign country and Section 44(1)(c) of the Act will have no application in such a situation. MLA REQUEST & POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY UNDER THE
 ACT 61. Next, it was argued by Mr. Shukla that the MLA request received
 from the U.S. Authorities, as per the complaint of ED, seeks limited
 assistance to the extent that WazirX accounts mentioned therein may be
 seized and frozen, but the ED has gone beyond the mandate of specific
 request in the MLA and lodged the present ECIR to initiate a separate
 investigation in India based on an offence committed abroad, which was
 impermissible. 62. To appreciate this argument, reference to the preamble of PMLA is
 imperative, which makes it plain that legislation has been enacted to
 implement the resolution and declaration adopted by United Nations General
 Assembly (UNGA) in the year 1990 and 1998, respectively in furtherance of
 global efforts, to control and prevent money laundering. 63. Chapter IX has been incorporated in PMLA specifically providing for
 reciprocal arrangement for assistance in certain matters and procedure of
 attachment and confiscation of property. Section 56 under Chapter IX
 envisages that the Central Government may enter into an agreement with the
 Government of any country outside India for - (a) enforcing the provisions
 of PMLA; (b) exchange of information for the prevention of any offence
 under PMLA or under the corresponding law in force in that country or
 investigation of cases relating to any offence under PMLA, and may, by
 notification in the official gazette, make such provisions as may be
 necessary for implementing the agreement. 64. It appears that pursuant to the provisions of Section 56 of the Act, the
 Government of India and the Government of United States of America, Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 30 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 desiring to improve the effectiveness of law enforcement authorities in both
 the States in the investigation, prosecution, economic crimes, through
 cooperation and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, agreed on
 various aspects by way of a treaty entitled "On Mutual Legal Assistance in
 Criminal Matters" (hereinafter ‗Treaty'). The preamble of Treaty reads as
 under: 65. Article I of the Treaty which deals with the scope of assistance that is
 to be provided by the contracting parties, reads as under: 3. Assistance shall be provided without regard to whether the
 conduct that is the subject of the investigation, prosecution, or
 proceeding in the Requesting State would constitute an offense
 under the laws of the Requested State. 4. This Treaty is intended solely for mutual legal assistance
 between the Contracting Parties. The provisions of this Treaty
 shall not give rise to a right on the part of any private person to
 obtain, suppress, or exclude any evidence, or to impede the
 execution of a request." (emphasis supplied) 66. As noted above the ED had received a letter dated 23.12.2022
 forwarding therewith a Mutual Legal Assistance Request (‗MLA') from the
 U.S. Department of Justice, Washington wherein legal assistance was
 sought. A copy of MLA request was handed over across the Bar during
 course of the arguments with a caveat that the same is confidential.
 Admittedly, said MLA request does not form part of the record either before
 this Court or before the learned Special Court, nor a copy of the same has
 been supplied to the accused persons, though reference of contents of said
 MLA request has been made in the complaint in abridged form. 67. A perusal of MLA request reveals that the Central Authority of the
 Republic of India has been requested with reference to the aforementioned
 Treaty, to obtain evidence for use in a criminal investigation and any related
 proceedings. Elaborating further, the MLA request also furnishes the details
 of the information obtained by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of
 Kansas (‗the Prosecutor'), while investigating the alleged commission of
 fraud and money laundering offences by petitioner/accused Vishal Moral. The request also points out that the above noted Prosecutor has obtained a
 U.S. Seizure warrant authorizing the restraint of entire contents of the
 relevant WazirX account, held in the name of Vishal Moral (Target Account)
 and accordingly a request has, inter alia, been made to restraint or to seize
 the entire contents of the said account with WazirX. 68. At this stage, it would also be relevant to refer to Section 60 of the
 PMLA, which provides for attachment, seizure and confiscation of property
 in contracting State of India. The provision reads as under: section (4) shall be carried out by an authority mentioned in
 sub-section (3) in accordance with such directions issued in
 accordance with the provisions of this Act. (emphasis supplied) 69. From the wholesome reading of Section 60 , it is abundantly clear that
 though a request from the contracting state may be confined to attachment,
 seizure, freezing or confiscation of the property in India, but the steps to be
 taken for executing the said request may include conducting of an inquiry,
 investigation or survey. 70. Investigation has been defined under Section 2(na) of the Act as
 follows: 71. The meaning assigned to investigation under section 2(h) 3 of the Code
 of Criminal Procedure is similar. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in H.N.
 Rishbud (supra) observed that under the Code investigation consists
 generally of the following steps: (emphasis supplied) 72. Similarly, the Apex Court in P. Chidambaram (supra) observed that
 ordinarily, arrest is a part of procedure of investigation to secure not only the
 presence of the accused but several other purposes. In good number of
 criminal cases, for collecting of evidence custodial interrogation becomes
 imperative. Incidentally, there cannot be arrest without registration of a case
 under the ordinary criminal law, except where arrest is under preventive
 detention laws. 73. In the backdrop of this legal position, there appears to be substance in
 the submission of Mr. Hossain that the request of the U.S. Authorities in the
 MLA is to obtain evidence and when such a request is received, the ED is
 empowered to do everything required including arrest of accused post
 lodging of a case under section 3 and 4 of the PMLA, to gather all evidence
 that may be available. 74. Even otherwise, once ED, on the basis of MLA request and other
 material collected, was satisfied that the offences being investigated by the
 U.S. Department of Justice under the relevant U.S. laws correspond to
 offences falling under Schedule of the PMLA and the proceeds of crime
 have found its way to India, it was well within its power to register an Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 35 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 offence under Sections 3 and 4 of the PMLA, irrespective of the nature of
 request in the MLA. This view finds support from the decision of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) wherein it
 has been held that the offence of money laundering under Section 3 of the
 Act is an independent offence regarding the process or activity connected
 with the proceeds of crime which had been derived or obtained as a result of
 criminal activity relating to or in relation to a scheduled offence. 75. In light of the above discussion there is no merit in the submission of
 Mr. Shukla that the MLA request received from the U.S. Authorities, as per
 the complaint of ED, seeks limited assistance to the extent that WazirX
 accounts mentioned therein may be seized and frozen and the same does not
 warrant registration of an offence under the PMLA. NON-COMPLIANCE OF PROCEDURAL REQUIREMEMTS 76. Insofar as contention of Mr. Shukla and Mr. Mir that after receipt of a
 letter of request from a contracting state, the Central Government is bound
 by Section 61 of PMLA to forward the said request to the concerned Court
 in India, is concerned, it may be observed that a conjoint reading of Section
 584, Section 60(2) and Section 615 of the Act, leaves no manner of doubt that
 the Central Government upon receipt of a letter of request from a
 contracting State has a discretion to forward the said request to any authority 4 Section 58 -Assistance to a contracting State in certain cases.--Where a letter of request is received by
 the Central Government from a court or authority in a contracting State requesting for investigation into an
 offence or proceedings under this Act and forwarding to such court or authority any evidence connected
 therewith, the Central Government may forward such letter of request to the Special Court or to any
 authority under the Act as it thinks fit for execution of such request in accordance with the
 provisions of this Act or, as the case may be, any other law for the time being in force. Section 61 - Procedure in respect of letter of request.--Every letter of request, summons or warrant,
 received by the Central Government from, and every letter of request, summons or warrant, to be
 transmitted to a contracting State under this Chapter shall be transmitted to a contracting State or, as the
 case may be, sent to the concerned Court in India and in such form and in such manner as the Central
 Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf. under the Act or to the Special Court as it thinks fit for the execution of such
 request. Therefore, the Central Government was well within its power to
 forward the MLA request in the present case directly to the ED. There is
 thus, no breach of the provisions of Chapter IX of the Act , as contended by
 the counsel for the petitioners/accused. 77. It was also argued both by Mr. Shukla and Mr. Mir that since it is the
 case of the ED that an offence of cross border implications has been
 committed, therefore, sanction of the Central Government was required
 under Section 188 CrPC. To appreciate this submission, apposite would it
 be to refer to Section 188 CrPC, which reads as under: 78. In terms of proviso to Section 188 CrPC, the section gets attracted
 when the entirety of the offence is committed outside India; and it is the
 grant of sanction that would enable such offence to be enquired into or tried
 in India.6 6 Sartaj Khan vs. State of Uttarakhand , (2022) 13 SCC 136. 79. Clearly, the predicate offence has been committed in U.S. and the
 same is being tried there though it has cross border implications. It is only
 the offence under PMLA that is being tried in India. Since the proceeds of
 crime related to the predicate offence have travelled to India, the offence
 under PMLA being a standalone offence, has been committed in India in its
 entirety, therefore, no sanction as mandated under proviso to Section 188 CrPC is required for the said offence. JUDICIAL NOTICE OF CORRESPONDING LAW 80. In the MLA request it is alleged that the petitioner/accused Vishal
 Moral, an Indian national has committed an offence under the U.S. statutes
 mentioned therein viz., (i) Title 18, United States Code, Section 1343 (Wire
 Fraud); (ii) Title 18, United States Code, Section 1029 (Access Device
 Fraud); (iii) Title 18, United States Code, Section 1030 (Computer Fraud)
 and; (iv) Title 18, United States Code, Section 1956 (Money Laundering). 81. The provisions of U.S. statutes under which offences are alleged to
 have been committed, have not been quoted in extenso in complaint filed by
 the ED nor there is any reference made to the ingredients of such offences.
 Even Title 18, United States Code has not been filed along with the
 complaint, let alone filing of an opinion of an expert on the subject. 82. Under Section 577 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 the Courts in
 India are obliged to take judicial notice of all laws in force in the territory of
 India and other facts enumerated in the provision, however, foreign laws are 7 Section 57 -Facts of which Court must take judicial notice.--The Court shall take judicial notice of the
 following facts: -- (1) All laws in force in the territory of India; (2) xxxxx
 ... (13) xxxxx
 ... not stated therein. The United States Code, being a foreign law, cannot be
 taken judicial notice of by Indian Courts and the same has to be pleaded like
 any other fact. Reference in this regard may be had to the decision of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Hari Shanker Jain vs. Sonia Gandhi , (2001) 8
 SCC 233. In the said case dispute regarding the validity of certificate of
 citizenship of the respondent therein arose and the issue before the Apex
 Court was that whether the respondent could have renounced her Italian
 citizenship and become a citizen of India, for which the appellants therein
 had failed to provide any reference to the statutory enactment or other
 provision on the issue, having force of law in Italy. The Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in this context observed that the Courts in India cannot take judicial
 notice of foreign law, therefore, it should be pleaded like any other fact. The
 relevant part observations of the Court read as under: In Beatty v. Beatty it was held that the American law in English Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 39 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 courts must be proved by the evidence of experts in that law.
 In Lazard Bros. and Co. v. Midland Bank, Ltd. Their Lordships
 of the Privy Council observed that what the Russian Soviet law
 is, is a question of fact, of which the English court cannot take
 judicial cognizance, even though the foreign law has already
 been proved before it in another case. The court must act upon
 the evidence before it in that actual case. The statement of law
 by Halsbury in Laws of England (3rd Edn., Vol. 15, para 610 at
 p. 335) is that the English courts cannot take judicial notice of
 foreign law and foreign laws are usually matters of evidence
 requiring proof as questions of fact." (emphasis supplied) 83. Likewise, this Court in the case of Mundipharma AG vs. Wockhardt
 Ltd. , 1990 SCC OnLine Del 269 had also articulated the above legal
 position. The question in this case was with regard to the enforceability of a
 particular clause under the Swiss law. This Court held Swiss Law being
 foreign law is a question of fact and opinion of an expert must be filed
 before the Court if reliance is placed on such foreign law. Relevant part of
 the judgment reads thus: (emphasis supplied) 84. It is in the backdrop of above legal position that Mr. Hossain's
 submission that the MLA request received by the ED is a certified copy, Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 41 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 therefore, the same may only be required to be proved in terms of Section
 78(6) of the Evidence Act, 1872 is to be appreciated. 85. The aforesaid submission is noted to be rejected. Even assuming that
 the MLA request is a certified copy as required under Section 78(6) of the
 Evidence Act, 1872, the same is not a substitute for the statute or provision
 of a corresponding law (United States Code) enacted in the United States of
 America, which will have to be proved as a question of fact during the
 course of trial by examining experts on the subject. At this stage no judicial
 notice can be taken of corresponding law of U.S., therefore, in the absence
 of material on record in the form of a relevant statute supported by the
 opinion of experts, there is nothing to establish even prima facie that the
 alleged predicate offence corresponds to the offences mentioned in the
 Schedule of the PMLA. Incidentally, in the absence of commission of
 scheduled offence, there cannot be any proceeds of crime. 86. At this juncture, it will also be relevant to note that the initial burden
 is on the prosecution to establish prima facie the three basic or fundamental
 facts as delineated in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra). Firstly, that the
 criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence has been committed.
 Secondly, that the property in question has been derived or obtained, directly
 or indirectly, by any person as a result of that criminal activity. Thirdly, the
 person concerned is directly or indirectly involved in any process or activity
 connected with the said property being proceeds of crime. On establishing
 the fact that there existed proceeds of crime and the person concerned was
 involved in any process or activity connected therewith, itself, constitutes an
 offence of money laundering. 87. It is only after three foundational facts are prima facie established in a
 given case that the accused will assume the burden in terms of Section
 24(a) 8 of the Act to convince the Court within the parameters of the inquiry
 under Section 45 that for the reasons adduced by him there are reasonable
 grounds to believe that he is not guilty of such offence.9 88. In the present case, the foundational facts that the alleged crime
 committed in U.S. is a scheduled offence and consequently the amount
 which has come to the account of petitioner/accused Vishal Moral is
 proceeds of crime have not been established even prima facie, therefore, the
 burden will not shift on petitioners/accused to convince the Court in terms of Section 45 that they are not guilty of an offence of money-laundering under
 the Act. NON-SPEAKING ORDER OF COGNIZANCE 89. A submission has also been made by Mr. Shukla, the learned counsel
 appearing on behalf of petitioner/accused Vishal Moral, that the order taking
 cognizance does not reflect any application of mind. The order dated
 01.08.2023 vide which cognizance was taken by the learned Special Court
 reads thus: Prem Prakash (supra) Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 43 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 90. Elaborating on his submission Mr. Shulka contends that the ED in the
 complaint has not disclosed or placed on record - (i) the identity of the
 victim; (ii) the complete contents of MLA; (iii) a complaint of the predicate
 offence in the US; (iv) communications between the US Central Authority
 and the Indian Central Authority; and (v) the communication between the
 Central Government and the ED. Therefore, there was no material before the
 learned Special Court with regard to commission of predicate offence in the
 U.S. and MLA request having been made by the U.S. Authorities to the
 Government of India. 91. In the present bail petitions, there is no challenge to the order vide
 which cognizance was taken by the learned Special Court, therefore, this
 Court need not delve deep into this submission, but certainly the absence of
 material to establish commission of scheduled offence in the United States
 of America, as noted in the foregoing part of the judgment, will enure to the
 benefit of the petitioners in the scheme of broad probabilities. BENEFIT OF FIRST PROVISO TO SECTION 45(1) OF PMLA 92. The first proviso10 to sub-section (1) of Section 45 of the Act, inter
 alia, provides that a person who is accused either on his own or alongwith
 other co-accused of money-laundering may be released on bail, if the sum of
 laundered amount is less than one crore rupees. 93. The contention of Mr. Shukla, as noted above, is that as per the
 complaint, out of the total Ethereum amount, approximately 0.48 ETH
 valued at around US$ 959 was transferred to the account of
 petitioner/accused Vishal Moral which converts to approximately 10 Provided that a person, who, is under the age of sixteen years, or is a woman or is sick or infirm, or is
 accused either on his own or along with other co-accused of money-laundering a sum of less than one crore
 rupees may be released on bail, if the Special Court so directs. Rs.80,000/-. According to Mr. Shukla it is the said amount which can be
 considered proceeds of crime, whereas another transaction on 15.08.2022
 wherein approximately 21.63 BTC valued at approximately Rs.4,00,00,000/-
 were transferred from the account of the victim directly to the account of
 Vishal Moral was an act of theft and cannot, by any imagination, fall under Section 3 of PMLA. 94. At this stage, without going into the question as to whether the
 proceeds from the second transaction have been obtained by way of fraud or
 theft or by commission of any other offence, suffice it to state that all the
 offences against the property under Chapter XVII of the IPC , which includes
 theft as well, are scheduled offences under Part C, if the same have cross
 border implications. Therefore, prima facie there is no force in Mr. Shukla's
 submission that twin conditions envisaged under Section 45 for grant of bail
 will not be applicable as the laundered amount is only to the extent of
 Rs.80,000/-. 95. Insofar as the contention that in the complaint the ED has not
 provided the basis of calculating the value of the subject matter, it may be
 observed that basis of calculation is a matter of trial and the same cannot be
 gone into while deciding the bail plea of the petitioners. 96. The incriminating material pressed into service by the ED against
 petitioner/Vishal Moral is in the form of - (i) statements of petitioner/Vishal
 Moral recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA; (ii) the WhatsApp/Telegram
 Chats; and (iii) seizure of cryptocurrency from Vishal Moral's account on
 the basis of MLA request. 97. In the present case, the ED has recorded as many as 12 statements of
 petitioner/accused Vishal Moral under Section 50 of the PMLA on various
 dates viz., 29.03.2023, 26.04.2023, 28.04.2023, 29.04.2023, 30.04.2023,
 01.05.2023, 02.05.2023, 03.05.2023, 04.05.2023, 05.05.2023 06.05.2023
 and 07.05.2023. 98. It is the case of ED itself that the petitioner/Vishal Moral was arrested
 on 26.04.2023. Clearly, except two statements of Vishal Moral recorded on
 29.03.2023 and 26.04.2023, all remaining 10 statements have been recorded
 post his arrest. 99. The crux of the statement of petitioner/Vishal Moral recorded on
 29.03.2023 has been stated in the complaint filed by the ED and the same
 reads thus: 100. Likewise, the essence of statement of petitioner/Vishal Moral
 recorded on 26.04.2023 as set out in the complaint reads as under: 101. A reading of above two statements goes to show that the statement
 dated 29.03.2023 refers only to his professional credentials whereas the
 statement dated 26.04.2023 contains admission of petitioner Vishal Moral
 that he received certain Bitcoins by mistake and he claimed the same as
 belonging to him and sent a fake and self-created screenshot to WazirX
 Crypto Exchange as proof. There is nothing incriminating to establish
 Vishal Moral's involvement in commission of alleged fraud or in any kind of
 scam or money laundering. 102. The other statements of petitioner/Vishal Moral have undisputedly,
 been recorded post his arrest on 26.04.2023, therefore, such statements,
 which according to the ED contains incriminating material, will be hit by Section 25 of the Evidence Act and rendered inadmissible, as the same were
 recorded whilst the petitioner/Vishal Moral was in custody. Reference in this
 regard may be had to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Prem
 Prakash (supra). In the said case, the incriminating statements of the
 appellant therein had been recorded by the ED under Section 50 of the
 PMLA whilst the appellant therein was in custody in another case ECIR.
 Thus, the argument put forth by the ED was that the appellant was not in
 custody in the concerned case when his statement under Section 50 of the
 PMLA was recorded. In this factual backdrop, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 formulated the following question and then referring to its various earlier
 decisions observed as under: (emphasis supplied) 103. In so far as the WhatsApp/Telegram Chats between the petitioner and
 co-accused Adnan Nisar and Shivang Malkoti are concerned, case of the ED
 is that the said chats are with pseudo or dummy names. Even assuming that
 the said chats are between the petitioner/accused and other co-accused, at
 this stage suffice it to say that such chats cannot establish a live link between
 the petitioner/Vishal Moral and other co-accused in the absence of scientific
 reports. Reference in this regard may be had to the judgment of Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in Bharat Chaudhary vs. Union of India , (2021) 20 SCC
 50, the relevant part of which reads as under:- 104. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ambalal Sarabhai (supra) also
 observed that the WhatsApp messages which are virtual verbal
 communications are matters of evidence with regard to their meaning and its
 contents to be proved during trial by evidence-in-chief and cross-
 examination. 105. On behalf of the ED, it was also argued that incriminating material in
 the form of MLA request has been corroborated from the seizure of exact
 amount from Vishal Moral's account maintained with WazirX. However, in
 view of the prima facie opinion of this Court that there is a missing link to
 establish that the seized amount from WazirX account of petitioner/Vishal
 Moral are proceeds of crime from an offence committed in U.S. which
 corresponds to the scheduled offence(s), merely seizure of amount pursuant
 an MLA request is not sufficient for the petitioner/accused Vishal Moral to
 assume the burden to convince the Court in terms of Section 45 of the Act
 that there are reasonable grounds to believe that he is not guilty of an
 offence under the Act. ii) Petitioner/accused - Adnan Nisar and Shivang Malkoti 106. Insofar as the other two petitioners namely Adnan Nisar and Shivang
 Malkoti are concerned, the incriminating material available against them is
 in the form of statements under Section 50 of PMLA, which were
 subsequently retracted by the said accused persons, as well as, the same
 WhatsApp/Telegram chats which have been pressed into service by the ED
 against co-accused/Vishal Moral. 107. Notably, petitioner/accused Adnan Nisar retracted his statement under Section 50 of PMLA by filing an application on 16.08.2023. Though
 petitioner/accused Shivang Malkoti in his statement under Section 50 of Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 49 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 PMLA has stated that he was maintaining temporary Telegram account with
 pseudo name of Raman Kohli and WhatsApp number in the name of Raman
 Sharma but this statement has been subsequently retracted by the
 petitioner/Shivang by filing an application that was taken on record by the
 learned Special Court vide order dated 16.09.2023. 108. The proceedings under Section 50 of the PMLA may be judicial
 proceedings for the limited purpose mentioned therein but a confession
 made by an accused in his statement under Section 50 of the PMLA is not a
 judicial confession.11 Even with regard to the retraction of judicial
 confession, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Bhagwan Singh & Ors. vs. State
 of M.P. , (2003) 3 SCC 21 has observed that when such a confession is found
 to be not voluntary and more so when it is retracted, the conviction cannot
 be based on such retracted judicial confession, in the absence of other
 reliable evidence. Relevant para of the said judgment is as under: 109. Likewise, in Puran vs. State of Punjab , (1952) 2 SCC 454, it was
 observed that it is settled rule of evidence that unless a retracted confession 11 Judicial confessions are those which are made before Magistrate or Court in course of judicial
 proceedings [ Ramanand @ Nandlal Bharti vs. State of Uttar Pradesh , AIR 2022 SC 5273] Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 50 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 is corroborated in material particulars, it is not prudent to base a conviction
 in a criminal case on its strength alone. 110. In regard to the reliability of retracted statements, a Coordinate Bench
 of this Court in Raman Bhuraria vs. Directorate of Enforcement , 2023
 SCC OnLine Del 657, referring to the decision of the Division Bench of this
 Court has observed that such retracted statements are though admissible, but
 the reliability of such statements is questionable. This Court took a view that
 the retracted statements cannot form basis for the guilt of the applicant in the
 offence as alleged and the question as to why such statements have been
 retracted are questions of trial. The relevant part of the said decision reads
 thus: 59. In the present case as well, the question is not regarding
 the admissibility but the reliability. The statements had
 concretely named the applicant. However, in their subsequent
 retraction the reliability of the statements themselves become
 doubtful. Statements of employees of SBFL, accommodation
 entry operators (Devki Nandan Garg and Ashok Kumar Goel)
 are a cut copy paste job with even the punctation marks of
 commas, full stops not differing. 60. Prima facie in view of the retraction, the reliability of
 these statements is questionable. The retracted statements
 cannot form the basis of the guilt of the applicant of the
 offences as alleged. Prima facie, I find it difficult to place the
 guilt of the offence under PMLA on the applicant, based on
 these statements. Further, the questions as to why the
 statements were retracted are questions of trial." (emphasis supplied) 111. Having regard to the above legal position, the reliability of the
 retracted statements of the co-accused Adnan Nisar and Shivang Malkoti is
 questionable and conviction cannot be based solely on the basis of such
 statements without corroborative evidence that would lend credence to such
 retracted statements. 112. For the reasons already stated above while dealing with the
 incriminating material against accused/Vishal Moral, the
 WhatsApp/Telegram Chats cannot be pressed into service against accused
 Adnan Nisar and Shivang Malkoti as well. 113. That apart, it is not the case of ED that any recovery has been made
 from accused Adnan Nisar and Shivang Malkoti, or they were engaged in
 development of any malicious software, fake clicks of competitors, ad Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 52 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 website, running advertisements on the websites/search engines, or trading
 the wallet or accounts of victims. It is also not the case of the ED any
 advertisement accounts have been recovered from Shivang Malkoti. 114. Further, since the statements of accused/Vishal Moral post his arrest
 are inadmissible, therefore, the same cannot be relied upon against the co-
 accused Adnan Nisar and Shivang Malkoti. The confessional statement of a
 co-accused under Section 50 of the PMLA is otherwise, not a substantive
 piece of evidence and can be used only for the purpose of corroboration in
 support of other evidence to lend assurance to the Court in arriving at a
 conclusion of guilt.12 115. Furthermore, even assuming that petitioner/Adnan Nisar is the person
 who was chatting with accused/Vishal Moral, the said chats merely reveal
 that it was the main accused Vishal Moral who asked the petitioner Adnan
 Nisar to get in touch with some unknown persons and collect their crypto
 currency IDs. No evidence has been brought to the notice of this Court that
 petitioner/Adnan Nisar at any point of time knew of the identity of the
 unknown persons/traders or their location, their business operations or any
 agent/association of the traders. Thus, there is merit in the contention of Mr.
 Mir that Adnan Nisar had no knowledge, whatsoever, about the length and
 breadth of the business operations of accused/Vishal Moral. Likewise, no
 evidence has been brought to the notice of Court to show that co-accused
 Shivang Malkoti was having any knowledge as to the nature of activities
 which accused/Vishal Moral was indulging into at the relevant time. The
 WhatsApp/Telegram Chats on the basis of which knowledge of Vishal
 Moral's activities could be ascribed to co-accused/Shivang Malkoti are 12 Sanjay Jain (supra) Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 53 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 under pseudo/dummy names. As already observed, such chats are to be
 proved during trial and at this stage co-accused/Shivang Malkoti cannot be
 tied to such chats. Besides, the first statement of Shivang Malkoti dated
 05.05.2023 under Section 50 of the Act in which he was confronted with the
 chats has already been retracted. Thus, prima facie it cannot be said that the
 petitioner/Adnan Nisar or Shivang Malkoti were possessed of requisite mens
 rea. 116. In any case, the role ascribed to co-accused Adnan Nisar and Shivang
 Malkoti is subsidiary to that of main accused/Vishal Moral, therefore, all the
 factors discussed in favour Vishal Moral in the scheme of broad probabilities
 shall enure to their benefit as well. DELAY IN TRIAL 117. Section 45 of the PMLA provides that no bail in relation to offence of
 money-laundering is to be granted unless twin conditions are fulfilled,
 namely, (i) there are reasonable grounds for believing that accused is not
 guilty of offence of money-laundering and (ii) he is not likely to commit any
 offence while on bail. In recent pronouncements, the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court has laid down in no uncertain terms that even under PMLA the
 governing principle is that "bail is the rule and jail is the exception". Reference in this regard may be had to the decision in Manish Sisodia (supra) and Prem Prakash (supra). The relevant extract from Prem Prakash (supra) can beneficially be referred to at this stage, which reads thus: These observations are significant and if read in the context
 of the recent pronouncement of this Court dated 09.08.2024
 in Criminal Appeal No. 3295 of 2024 [Manish Sisodia
 (II) v. Directorate of Enforcement], it will be amply clear
 that even under PMLA the governing principle is that "Bail
 is the Rule and Jail is the Exception". In para 53 of [Manish
 Sisodia (II), this Court observed as under:-- All that Section 45 of PMLA mentions is that certain
 conditions are to be satisfied. The principle that, "bail is the
 rule and jail is the exception" is only a paraphrasing of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which states that no
 person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except
 according to the procedure established by law. Liberty of the
 individual is always a Rule and deprivation is the exception.
 Deprivation can only be by the procedure established by law,
 which has to be a valid and reasonable procedure. Section 45 of PMLA by imposing twin conditions does not re-write this Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 55 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 principle to mean that deprivation is the norm and liberty is
 the exception. As set out earlier, all that is required is that in
 cases where bail is subject to the satisfaction of twin
 conditions, those conditions must be satisfied." (emphasis supplied) 118. It was observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Prem Prakash (supra) that Article 21 being a higher constitutional right, statutory
 provisions must align themselves to the said higher constitutional edict. 119. Incidentally, in Manish Sisodia (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 considering the custody period of 17 months of the appellant therein and the
 likely delay to be expected in conclusion of trial and regard being had to the
 voluminous documents and number of witnesses, observed that the appellant
 therein cannot be kept behind bars for an unlimited time in the hope of
 completion of speedy trial which would deprive the fundamental right to
 liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. 120. Reference may also be had to yet another decision of Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in Ramkripal Meena (supra), wherein considering the
 custody period of the petitioner being more than one year and there being no
 likelihood of conclusion of trial within a short span, it was observed that
 rigours of Section 45 of the Act can suitably be relaxed to afford conditional
 liberty to the petitioner. 121. Coming back to the facts of the present case, it is an admitted position
 that the petitioner/Vishal Moral is in custody since 26.04.2023, therefore, he
 has been incarcerated for more than 16 months, whereas co-
 accused/petitioners namely Adnan Nisar and Shivang Malkoti are in custody
 since 09.05.2023 and have likewise spent more than 16 months in custody,
 whereas the maximum sentence which can be awarded for the offence under Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 56 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06 the PMLA is 07 years in the event the petitioners are found guilty. The
 documents to be proved in the present case also runs into 2500 pages and
 there are various witnesses to be examined by the ED. However, the present
 status of the proceedings is that the trial has not commenced, inasmuch as,
 the charges have not yet been framed. On behalf of the petitioners, it is
 submitted that further investigations are pending which position was not
 disputed by the learned Special Counsel for the ED. CONCLUSION 122. The upshot of the above discussion is that this Court is satisfied that
 there are reasonable grounds for believing that the petitioners are not guilty
 of the offence. Further, on a conspectus of the custody period, the delay in
 commencement of trial and no likelihood of conclusion of trial anytime in
 near future, the rigors of Section 45 of the Act deserve to be relaxed.
 Ordered accordingly. 123. Further, all relevant documents and devices including laptops, mobile
 phones, Ledger, Hardware Wallet, etc., have already been recovered and
 seized. The alleged proceeds of crime held in the accounts maintained with
 WazirX have also been frozen. Thus, all material documents are already in
 possession of the investigating agencies and no further recovery is to be
 made from the petitioners. It is also not the case of the ED that the
 petitioners have a criminal record or any criminal case is pending against
 them. Therefore, petitioners/accused are not likely to commit any offence
 while on bail. 124. Thus, the petitioners have made out a case for grant of regular bail.
 Accordingly, the petitioners are enlarged on bail subject to the following
 conditions : 125. The petitions stand disposed of alongwith all pending applications. 126. It is clarified that the observations made hereinabove are only for the
 limited purpose of deciding the present bail applications and the same shall
 not be construed as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 127. Copy of the order be forwarded to the concerned Jail Superintendent
 for necessary compliance and information. 128. Order dasti under signatures of the Court Master. 129. Order be uploaded on the website of this Court. VIKAS MAHAJAN, J. SEPTEMBER 17, 2024
 dss/MK Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 3056/2023 & connected matters Page 59 of 59 Digitally Signed By:NARENDRA SINGH ASWAL Signing Date:18.09.2024 14:30:06