% 20.07.2022 1. The present suit has been filed by the Plaintiff seeking a permanent
 injunction to restrain Defendant No.1 from unauthorizedly using the
 Plaintiff's trademarks and/or copyright to defraud and dupe unsuspecting
 and gullible members of the general public in the name of the Plaintiff. The
 Plaintiff alleged that the Defendant through various means is approaching
 customers and informing them they have won a lottery prize. Thereafter,
 under the pretext of a fake lottery win, the rogue Defendants induce the CS (COMM) 475/2022 Page 1 of 9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:21.07.2022 17:32:37 gullible members of the general public to submit their bank account details
 and pay advance charges (by way of processing fees or other charges) to
 receive the prize amount or to avail free gifts such as cars, motor bikes, cash
 prize, electronics, etc. 2. Pursuant to the previous order dated 18th July, 2022, a status report
 has been submitted by Ms. Hetu Arora Sethi, ld. ASC, GNCTD appearing
 for the Delhi Police along with Mr. Raman Lamba, ACP, Cyber Crime Unit,
 Delhi Police, who is present in Court. A perusal of the said status report
 shows that a detailed investigation is already underway and there are similar
 matters as well, where fake accounts have been created in the names of well-
 known business houses. As per the said status report, a Special Investigation
 Team ('SIT') has been constituted collectively in respect of four similar
 suits, by the Cyber Crime Unit, Delhi Police, which is referred to as
 Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations ("IFSO"). 3. In the present suit, a FIR being FIR No.206/2022, P.S. Special Cell,
 Delhi dated 20th July, 2022 has also been registered under Sections 419 / 420 IPC and Sections 66C , 66D of the Information Technology Act, 2000. The
 status report reveals that there are bank accounts which are connected to
 each other, in a cascading manner, and orders are being issued for freezing
 of the said bank accounts. Let the investigation in this matter continue. 4. In the meantime, all the three fake online marketplaces with the
 infringing domain names being 'www.meeshogift.in',
 'www.meeshogift.com' and 'www.meeshoonlineluckydraw.in' are
 restrained from operating and shall remain suspended or deactivated by the
 Domain Name Registrar ("DNR"). The Defendant No.19 - Department of
 Telecommunications (DoT) and Defendant No.20 - Ministry of Electronics CS (COMM) 475/2022 Page 2 of 9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:21.07.2022 17:32:37 and Information Technology (MEITY) shall issue blocking orders for the
 said three domain names, till further orders of this Court. All the Internet
 Service Providers (ISPs) shall also give effect to these directions, within 24
 hours. 5. The contact details of the persons, who have registered domain names
 shall be handed over to ld. Counsel for the Plaintiff by the DNR - GoDaddy
 and other Registrars. Upon the details of the registrants of these domain
 names being made available to ld. Counsel for the Plaintiff, the same shall
 be supplied to Ms. Sethi and Mr. Lamba, so that they can carry out further
 investigation into the matter. All the concerned banks shall further ensure
 that the bank accounts connected to the said three domain names are frozen
 and blocked. 6. The DNRs will also inform the Plaintiff, if the said domain names
 have availed of any other services of the DNR such as cloud server, website
 development and hosting services. If so, the details used for making any
 payments such as credit card details, bank accounts details and any IP
 address of such persons who have registered the said domain names for
 availing the said services, shall also be provided to ld. Counsel for the
 Plaintiff. After collecting said details, the ld. Counsel for the Plaintiff shall
 forward the same to Ms. Sethi and Mr. Lamba. 7. The DNRs shall further ensure that no other fake websites/domain
 names containing the mark/name 'MEESHO' is registered by them. If the
 Plaintiff gives notice of any other infringing websites, the DNRs shall
 deactivate the said website/domain name, within 48 hours. 8. Ld. Counsel for the Plaintiff shall file an affidavit giving the details of
 such websites after submitting the same to the DNR. If any domain names, CS (COMM) 475/2022 Page 3 of 9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:21.07.2022 17:32:37 which are brought to the notice of the DNR, are not deactivated, an
 explanation shall be provided by the DNR to the Plaintiff as to why the said
 domain names were not deactivated, and the Plaintiff shall be at liberty to
 move an application before the Court in this regard. 9. At this stage, Mr. Khan, ld. Counsel for the DNR - Godaddy.com
 LLC submits that the order relating to non-registration of any domain name
 containing the mark 'MEESHO' may not be passed, as it may block several
 genuine users from registering domain names. If the DNR is of the view that
 there are genuine domain names, an application may be moved. 10. This Court has perused the status report submitted by the Cyber
 Crime Unit and is convinced that the Plaintiff's well-known mark
 'MEESHO' is now being used by fraudulent persons, who carry out illegal
 activities over the internet. The order directing the DNR not to register any
 domain names containing the mark 'MEESHO' is being passed under such
 extenuating circumstances, where the status report reveals that several
 vulnerable persons are being duped of huge sums of money by registering
 the domain names containing the mark 'MEESHO'. Several bank accounts
 are being publicised on such domain names/websites, and in one such
 account, total transaction of more than Rs.53 lakhs was found by the Cyber
 Crime Unit and an amount of only Rs.79/- was found to be remaining as
 balance amount. Thus, domain name registration is becoming a tool for such
 persons to collect monies through illegal means. It is under these
 circumstances that the present order has been passed in respect of the DNR. 11. It has also been brought to the notice of this Court that there are a
 number of cases before the Court where fraudulent domain names are being
 registered under the marks of well-known and established business houses CS (COMM) 475/2022 Page 4 of 9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:21.07.2022 17:32:37 and their brands. The said domain names are being used for hosting
 fraudulent websites with details of bank accounts under the garb of offering
 jobs, dealerships, franchisees, lucky draws, and various other illegal
 activities. The cases already before this Court, include the following: 12. In addition, ld. Counsels appearing before this Court today have
 informed the Court that there are other similar matters, pending before
 different benches of the IPD. The details of the said matters are as under: 13. Subject to the orders of Hon'ble the Judge-in-Charge (Original Side),
 all the above matters be listed before the same Bench, as the investigation
 needs to be consolidated and comprehensive directions may be required to
 be issued to the police authorities, cyber cells, the various banks, National
 Payment Corporation of India, RBI, MHA etc. 14. The Cyber Crime Unit, Special Cell, Delhi shall continue the
 investigation in these matters. Let a further status report be submitted in CS (COMM) 475/2022 Page 8 of 9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:21.07.2022 17:32:37 respect of the said investigation, on the next date of hearing. 15. It is also made clear that in order to coordinate in obtaining data
 relating to various bank accounts and other details of the persons, who
 opened the fraudulent bank accounts for collecting the money from the
 customers, the Cyber Crime Unit is free to approach National Payments
 Corporation of India, as also, the concerned banks. 16. List on 3rd August, 2022, along with similar matters as tabulated
 above at 2:30 p.m.

 PRATHIBA M. SINGH, J. JULY 20, 2022/dk/ad CS (COMM) 475/2022 Page 9 of 9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:21.07.2022 17:32:37