These petitions are heard and disposed of by this common

order, as the same are inter related. 2. The facts as stated are that one Smt. Shaila Chebbi

Govind and Smt. Mala Madikeri Srinivas Gowda, Petitioners no.

1 and 2, respectively, in the petition in WP 19462 / 2016 are said

to have founded the company M/s Alliance Business School Pvt.

Ltd., in the year 2005. It is claimed that their younger brother,

Sudhir Angur, who had the requisite expertise in running a large

educational institution, had assisted them. The said petitioners are

said to have held 50% of the shares of the company, each. It is stated that the Alliance Business School which was

established by the company, had very soon achieved a high degree

of success. It is said to have been granted permission to sponsor

and start a private University in Bangalore, in the year 2010. This

gave birth to the Alliance University, incorporated under the Alliance University Act, 2010 , enacted by the State legislature. 24 The company acquired the status of a charitable company under Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956 (Corresponding to Section

8 of the Companies Act, 2013) 3. Presently, the University sponsored by the company is in

the management of a Law School and an Engineering college

apart from its Business School. It claims to have a student

strength of 6500 with a staff of over 350. The above petitioners

credit their brother, Sudhir Angur, for these land mark

achievements over the years. It then transpires that Sudhir Angur

was embroiled in a bitter matrimonial wrangle with his spouse.

He is said to have been a Trustee managing a large educational

institution along with his wife and father-in-law. He was said to

have been accused of actively diverting the goodwill and

resources of the said Trust in order to build Alliance Business Pvt.

Ltd. and had thus deliberately refused any honorary posts in the

company and the University. It transpires that the venom with

which his wife attacked Sudhir Angur, was even to allege that he 25 had siphoned funds from their Trust to build the Company of the

petitioners. The above said petitioners faced with the crisis of not

having the able guidance of their brother, who had withdrawn

from his active support to them on ethical grounds and the

petitioners were in search for another able person to carry on the

management. It is stated that at this stage, the petitioners' elder

brother, Madhukar Angur who had settled in the USA, is said to

have broached the subject of being given the reins of the company

as he had the requisite experience as an educationist. He was then

said to be in the employment of the Michigan University, USA.

He was said to have been inducted as a Director of the company.

The entire share holding of the said petitioners was said to have

been transferred in favour of Madhukar Angur, as on 27.11.2008.

He was also said to have been nominated the Managing Director.

The transfer of shares and his induction into the company, was

said to be without any monetary consideration. 26 It is alleged that the said Madhukar Angur soon started

displaying his evil side and began blatantly transferring the large

funds of the institutions to his private accounts in the US. And he

is said to have appointed two of his close confidants, Krishna

Mohan Ramineni and Richard Glenn Roakman III, as Directors

and engineered the resignation of the above petitioners from their

posts as Directors of the company, as on 16.10.2009. In 2010, Madhukar Angur is said to have been asked by the

Michigan University to quit, as he had come under a cloud, having

been accused of dereliction of duty, conflict of commitment and

conflict of interest etc. But his position in the Alliance University

assumed greater importance with being named the first Chancellor

of the University in the year 2010. At that point he was in

absolute control of the finances of the University which were

overflowing, especially since the company enjoyed the privilege

of exemption from taxes. According to the petitioners, he had by

then siphoned off atleast a sum of Rs.100 crore to his personal 27 accounts, channelled through bogus bank accounts and other

means. Madhukar Angur is said to be a much married man at 60,

his fourth wife presently is said to be aged 22. He is known to

lead a lavish and extravagant life. And to feed that life style he is

said to have liberally helped himself to the funds of the institution.

The founders having realized the notoriety of Madhukar Angur,

are said to have demanded accounts and sought to examine the

books and records, which, it was claimed, were not readily

furnished. But with unrelenting pressure from other members of

the family, when the accounts were finally accessed it was said to

have been found that there was large scale misappropriation by

Madhukar Angur. It was in this background that it was felt

necessary to divest him of the share holding in the company to

prevent further damage. It is stated that Madhukar Angur had, as

on 6.4.2010, transferred 43% of the share holding of the Alliance

Business School to the second petitioner (38% ) and her husband,

Srinivas Gowda (5%), as on 7.10.2011. The share certificates 28 were accordingly said to have been issued. The annual returns

filed by the company for the years 2011-2012 and 2012-2013 are

said to reflect the share holding of the second petitioner and her

husband. However, it transpires that inexplicably the share holding of

the second petitioner and her husband was shown to have been

transferred in favour of Priyanka, the wife of Madhukar Angur in

March 2014. This was discovered by the second petitioner only

when the annual returns for the year 2013-2014 was filed. The

second petitioner had thus been constrained to file a criminal

complaint as on 20.3.2015, registered as Crime no. 66/2015 before

the Anekal Police Station. In view of these developments, the petitioners herein are

said to have confronted Madhukar and Priyanka, who finally

pleaded that no action be taken against them and assured all that

the entire share holding would be transferred to the petitioners and

others and undertook to resign from the company. And at a Board 29 meeting on 4.3.2015 two additional Directors, Abhay Chebbi and

Prakash Siddappa were said to have been inducted on the Board,

at the behest of the petitioners. And at a Board meeting on

5.3.2015, Madhukar Angur, Sachidanandarao Mechineni and

Krishnamohan Ramineni are said to have resigned form

Directorship. The shares held by Madhukar Angur and the shares

transferred in favour of Priyanka were said to have been

transferred in the following manner : transferors were said to have been paid a consideration of Rs.

12.25 lakh and Rs. 10.75 lakh, respectively. Madhukar is said to

have assured that he would provide the Digital signature necessary 30 for uploading the transactions to the portal of the Registrar of

Companies, on the next day. However, he is said to have resiled

and is said to have demanded that the transfers were to be nullified

and sought for return of all the original documents. He is also said

to have tampered with the digital signature of a divorced wife,

Vani B. Rao and had named her as an Additional Director of the

Company and also his present wife, Priyanka, as an Additional

Director, as on 9.4.2015. On 10.4.2015, when the petitioners put

Madhukar on notice and strictly warned him that stringent action

would be taken against him for his illegal actions, he is said to

have relented and at a Board meeting on 11.4.2015, petitioners no.

1 & 2 were said to have been re-inducted as Additional Directors

of the company. The company was thus reconstituted with the

petitioners no. 1 to 4 in the petition in W.P.19462/2016, as

Directors and such changed status of the company was said to

have been uploaded on the portal of the ROC, as on 13.4.2015.

But on the same day and also on 15.4.2015, Madhukar along with

his wife, Priyanka and Krishna Mohan Rameneni is said to have 31 filed criminal complaints, in Crime no.97/2015, Crime

no.104/2015 and Crime no.105/2015, before the Anekal Police

Station, against the petitioners and others. It was said to have

been alleged that digital signatures had been forged and that the

petitioners had uploaded their status as Directors of the company

and that he had been illegally removed from the Directorship. 4. It is stated that the police had conducted a stage managed

investigation and promptly filed a charge sheet before the Court of

the Magistrate, Anekal. The court had taken cognizance and

directed the registration of a criminal case in C.C.955/ 2015. The

petitioners were then, said to have been driven to challenge the

same before this court in a writ petition in WP.14670/ 2016 and

the said proceedings in the criminal case have been stayed. Madhukar is also said to have addressed the ROC and is

said to have alleged that the petitioners and others had forged his

digital signatures in uploading the change in status of the

directorship and sought cancellation of any such returns filed. The 32 ROC is said to have issued a show cause notice dated 7.5.2015 in

this regard to the petitioners. In spite of these developments the status of Madhukar as the

Chancellor of the Alliance University was said to be continuing

pending legal steps being taken for his removal. And suspecting

mala fides and evil actions on his part, the petitioners are said to

have filed a civil suit in O.S.No.25382/2015, which was said to

have been withdrawn later, as a more comprehensive suit was to

have been filed thereafter. As matters stood thus, one Ravinder Reddy is said to have

filed a Company petition before the Company Law Board,

Chennai, in C.P.10/2015, claiming that he had entered into an

agreement with Madhukar Angur and his wife to purchase their

entire share holding in Alliance Business School, which was about

90% of the Shares of the company, under an agreement dated

29.3.2015, but the transfer of the shares had not taken place, as

Madhukar and his wife had backed out. In denying the

transaction, Madhukar is said to have got issued a letter under the 33 letter head of Abhay Chebbi to refuse and negate the claim of

Ravinder Reddy. This according to the petitioners would clinch

the controversy in their favour, that Madhukar had thereby

acknowledged the induction of Abhay Chebbi as a Director and so

also the subsequent events of transfer of the shares in favour of the

petitioners and their inclusion as Directors. Significantly, the

petitioners and others who were the present Directors were not

made parties to the petition before the Company Law Board. But

after having learnt of the pendency of the same, the petitioners and

others have impleaded themselves in those proceedings and the

same is said to be pending. 5. Given the mercurial and diabolic nature of Madhukar, the

petitioners are said to have filed a comprehensive civil suit to

protect their interests in O.S.1094/2016 and have obtained

interlocutory orders against Madhukar and his confidantes from

interfering with the functioning of the institutions. 34 6. In the meanwhile, Madhukar is said to have been accused

of committing rape on a mentally challenged niece and was said to

have been arrested in that regard by the Madiwala police. In the wake of the serious financial offences and the

criminal case of rape, Madhukar is said to have been suspended

from his position as the Chancellor of Alliance University. It is the case of the petitioners that in keeping with the style

of his operation, the Circle Police Inspector, one Malatesh, is said

to have been generously bribed by Madhukar and it is in that

background that Madhukar is enabled to file serial criminal cases

against the petitioners and others. Given the above facts and

circumstances, the petitioners herein seek to point out that in one

of such complaints it is alleged that the petitioners had forged and

misused the digital signature of Krishna Mohan Ramaneni, a

close confidante of Madhukar, in uploading particulars of the

changes in the Directorship of the Alliance Business School, on to

the portal of the ROC. The said Ramaneni, who is also arrayed as 35 a defendant in the civil suit filed by the petitioners in

O.S.1094/2016, has entered appearance therein and has filed his

written statement and has admitted that the entire transactions

involving the petitioners and as detailed above are true and valid.

He has also confessed that he was completely under the influence

of Madhukar in having made false allegations against the

petitioners. It is hence contended that the very basis of the cases

instituted against the petitioners on the basis of his complaint is

taken away and the proceedings cannot be sustained. It is in the above background that the earliest petition filed

was in W.P. 14670 & 18174 /2016, questioning the complaint and

further proceedings pursuant to the case in Crime no.104/2015

before the Anekal Police Station. It is alleged therein that a stage

managed investigation has been carried out by respondents 3 & 4

therein, namely, the police inspector and circle police inspector ,

who are said to be on the pay roll of Madhukar Angur, and a

charge sheet had been laid against the petitioners namely, Abhay 36 Chebbi, Prakash Siddappa, Shaila Chebbi and Mala Srinivas

Gouda, alleging offences punishable under Sections 65 , 66 (B) , 71 , 73 and 74 of the Information Technology Act, 2000

(hereinafter referred to as 'the IT Act, 2000 ', for brevity) and

Sections 465, 468, 469, 471, 474, 476 read with Section 34 of the

Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as 'the IPC ', for

brevity). The court of the Magistrate having taken cognizance of

the same and a case in C.C.955/2015 having been registered, the

said petition is filed. It is pointed out that the entire tenor of the complaint stands

completely diluted in view of the complainant, Krishna Mohan

Ramaneni, having made a clean breast of the true and valid

transactions entered into by the petitioners and of having been

mislead and of having acted under the influence of Madhukar

Angur. The very basis of the complaint is taken away. It is further asserted that the complaint is about the digital

signature of Krishna Mohan having been forged. However, the 37 entire investigation pertains to the digital signature of Madhukar

Angur. It is therefore evident that the respondents no. 3 & 4 were

seeking to frame the petitioners on the basis of false and

concocted material. Further, respondent no.5, it is said, is a retired police officer

whose credentials as a finger print expert is dubious. Respondents

3 & 4 have engaged his services, without valid authorization and

his doctored opinion that the signatures were forged is obviously

to falsely frame the petitioners - when it is evident that the

allegation was of concoction of the digital signature and not

forgery. The opinion is expressed on the basis of photocopies of

documents - which no Forensic Laboratory would venture to

examine in furnishing any such opinion. The entire basis of the

Charge sheet being the said expert opinion and having regard to its

dubious nature, the court below having taken cognizance results in

a grave miscarriage of justice. 7. In the petition in W.P.19462/2016 the petitioners are

Shaila Chebbi, Mala Srinivas Gowda, Abhay Chebbi and Prakash 38 Budoor. They have challenged the complaint and FIR in 76/2016,

before the Anekal Police Station, filed against the petitioners by

Madhukar Angur - alleging offences punishable under Sections

71 , 74 & 66 D of the IT Act, 2000 and Sections 477A, 471 and

468 read with Section 34 of the IPC. It is pointed out that very

similar allegations had been made in the earlier complaint, at his

instance, before the very same police station and which has been

entertained and sought to be acted upon in the face of the earlier

proceeding having been stayed by this court. It is contended that the very basis of the complaint is lost in

view of Krishna Mohan Ramaneni having openly stated before the

civil court in the civil suit in O.S.No.1094/2016 as to the true state

of affairs and the allegations against the petitioners being false.

The impugned registration of the FIR is hit by Section 80 of the IT

Act. It is pointed out that the investigation is said to have been

carried out by a head constable, while the law mandates the

investigation officer must be an officer not below the rank of a

Police inspector. 8. In the petitions in WP 20913 - 20918/ 2016 and WP

22726 -731/2016, the petitioners are Sudhir Angur, Prakash

Budoor, Shaila Chebbi, Mala Srinivas Gouda, Abhay Chebbi and

Govind Chebbi. They seek to challenge the complaints by

Madhukar Angur registered as Crime no.108/2015 and Crime

no.115/2015 on identical and repetitive allegations dated 3.4.2016

and 14.4.2016, respectively. These complaints which were said to

be the sixth and seventh in a row, were indiscriminately

entertained by the Anekal Police Station with the active

connivance of the Circle Police Inspector and the Police Inspector,

who were allegedly on the payroll of Madhukar Angur. 9. In the petitions in W.P.27272-275/2016 and W.P.27276 -

279/2016 the petitioners are Abhay Chebbi, Prakash Siddappa,

Shaila Chebbi and Mala Srinivas Gouda. They have challenged

the criminal complaints by Priyanka B.S. and Madhukar Angur,

respectively, registered as Crime no. 105/2015 and Crime no.

97/2015 before the Anekal Police Station dated 17.4.2015 and 40 13.4.2015, respectively. The tenor and theme of the allegations is

similar to the series of complaints referred to hereinabove. The

court below having taken cognizance on charge sheets having

been filed, the present petitions are filed. Incidentally, Krishna Mohan Ramaneni, who was said to be

a close confidant of Madhukar Angur and who is arrayed as

respondent no.4 in the petition in W.P.14670/2016 and

W.P.18174/2016 has sought to file an affidavit supporting the case

of the petitioners, to the following effect : Further, the said Krishna Mohan Ramaneni, has sought to

intervene in the petition in W.P.19462-466/2016 and has filed an 44 "Affidavit of facts" again supporting the petitioners, the same is to

the following effect : 10. Having heard Shri B.V.Acharya, Senior Advocate,

appearing on behalf of the counsel for the petitioners and Shri C.

H. Jadhav, Senior Advocate, appearing for the counsel for the

contesting respondent and Shri Manian also appearing for the

respondent contesting the case, it is to be noticed that these

petitions are directed against proceedings initiated pursuant to the

following complaints :- In the first of the above complaints, it is alleged that the

accused had uploaded their names as Directors of the company on

the portal of the ROC on the basis of forged share transfer forms

and have falsely claimed that the complainant, his wife, Priyanka

and Krishna Mohan Ramaneni have resigned from the

Directorship of the company. The second of the above complaints is by a Director and

share holder alleging that the accused named by him had forged

his signatures on the share transfer forms and had uploaded their

names as Directors on the portal of the ROC and had indicated

falsely that the complainant had resigned from the Board . The third complaint is by the wife of Madhukar Angur,

claiming as a Director and share holder and her allegations are

almost verbatim the same as that of her husband in the first

complaint above. The fourth complaint it is alleged that taking advantage of

his arrest in a rape case, the accused had on the basis of the forged

digital signature of Krishna Mohan uploaded false information on 50 to the portal of the ROC, to the effect that the accused are the

present Directors of the company and that the complainant, his

wife and Krishna Mohan had resigned from the Board. This,

according to the complainant was after their first attempt in the

year 2015 to have their names shown as Directors had been

successfully prevented by him by raising objections before the

ROC, who had kept the changes proposed in abeyance and the

uploading was ultimately withdrawn by the consent of the

Accused. The fifth complaint is filed in the wake of the complainant

being denied his status as Chancellor of Alliance University and

has alleged that the accused had opened illegal bank accounts and

were misappropriating the funds of the University and that he was

the sole authority who was authorized to operate the bank

accounts and manage the finances of the University. Sudhir

Angur, one of the accused was falsely projecting himself as the

Pro-Chancellor of the University. That the accused together had

unseated the complainant as Chancellor. The sixth complaint was lodged in the wake of the

complainant having been removed as the Chancellor of Alliance

University by the accused. It is alleged that the accused were not

vested with any such power and further they were guilty of a host

of offences, including fraud and forgery. The learned Government Advocate has made available the

entire material gathered by the police in the course of their

investigation in the above cases. From a perusal of those

documents, it is evident that in the first instance, the petitioners

had, acting pursuant to the resolutions passed at a Board Meeting

dated 4.3.2015, had filed the statutory forms in Form DIR 12

intimating the Registrar of Companies of their induction as

Directors of the company. However, Madhukar Angur is seen to

have addressed a letter to the ROC, dated 20.4.2015 and alleged

that his signature had been forged on various documents and that

the petitioners had uploaded false information on the portal of the

Ministry of Corporate Affairs, claiming as Directors who had been 52 inducted. And that they had also fraudulently claimed that he, his

wife and Krishna Mohan had resigned as Directors. It was further

alleged that his digital signature was fraudulently obtained by the

petitioners and used by them by obtaining a second digital

signature from the Certifying Authority. And hence requested the

ROC not to accept the documents uploaded by the petitioners. The Registrar of Companies had issued a show cause

notice, dated 7.5.2015 to the petitioners, under Rule 10 (3) of

Companies (Registration offices and Fees) Rules 2014, proposing

to invalidate the forms submitted by them, on the basis of the

complaint by Madhukar Angur. In response to the above notice, all the four petitioners ,

namely, Shaila Chebbi, Mala Srinivas Gouda, Prakash Siddappa

and Abhay Chebbi, by separate letters dated 2/ 3.6.2015, conceded

that there were differences among the erstwhile and the present

Board of Directors and that there were attempts to resolve the

same amicably. It was denied that there was any fraud in relation

to the alleged forgery or misuse of the digital signature of 53 Madhukar Angur and also stated that the respective e-forms no.

DIR 12 filed by each of them could in the mean time be treated as

"Invalid", on their consent. Thereafter by separate communications dated 8.6.2015, the

Registrar of Companies informed the petitioners that in terms of

the notice dated 7.5.2015, the e-forms filed were marked "invalid"

and they were called upon to furnish fresh e-forms after

rectification of defects within 30 days. In response, the petitioners had informed the ROC by

letters dated 8.7.2015 that in view of an injunction order issued

against them in a civil suit in O.S.No.25382/2015 before the City

Civil Court , Bangalore, the parties were refrained from uploading

any forms on the portal of the ROC and therefore they were

handicapped. However, with the dismissal of the above suit, as having

been withdrawn, as of February 2016 , the petitioners were in a

position to give effect to the proceedings that had transpired in the

interregnum . At a Board Meeting of the Directors of Alliance Business

School, dated 30.9.2015, resolutions were passed regularizing the

petitioners' induction from Additional Directors to Directors.

These resolutions are duly signed by Krishna Mohan Ramaneni,

as Director. The above said petitioners having approached the City

Civil Court, Bangalore in O.S.No.1047/2016 and

O.S.No.1094/2016 and pursuant to an interim order therein, dated

6.2.2016, Krishna Mohan Ramaneni has confirmed the

appointment of the petitioners as Directors, in his presence, at the

Board Meetings held on 4.3.2005 and 11.4.2005, itself. Intimation in respect of the resignation of Madukhar Angur,

Managing Director, Priyanka B.S. and Krishna Mohan Ramaneni,

with effect from 11.2.2016 has been filed with the ROC.. The extracts of the resolution passed at a Board Meeting of

the Directors of Alliance Business School held on 11.2.2016,

accepting the resignation of Madhukar Angur and Priyanka B. S. 55 are made available. The same is duly signed by Krishna Mohan

Ramaneni, as Director. 11. As a matter of law and procedure, in circumstances such

as are highlighted in these petitions, it is clearly a matter covered

under Chapter XIV of the Companies Act, 2013 . Section 213

provides for the proper recourse available to a person or persons

complaining of fraud, misfeasance or other misconduct committed

in the management of the business, towards the company or

towards any of its members. It would be a matter falling entirely

in the jurisdiction of the National Company Law Tribunal, which

shall first investigate the matter and thereafter have the persons

who may be found on such investigation and enquiry being

conducted, to have committed any acts of fraud or other acts of

misfeasance or misconduct to be tried before the Special Court

constituted to try offences under the Act. Section 213 of the Act,

however, is yet to come into force as it has not been notified by 56 the Government of India, in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 1 of the 2013 Act. The corresponding provision under the Companies Act,

1956 is Section 237 thereof. In that, when the necessary

adjudication as to the validity or otherwise of statutory forms filed

before the ROC are in dispute, the criminal court is hardly vested

with the jurisdiction to adjudicate on the same, merely on the

allegation of fraud and forgery. On the other hand, Section 237 of

the 1956 Act, clearly envisages a situation involving alleged fraud.

It would therefore be an exercise in futility to obtain a conviction

against the accused without the concerned documents being

rendered void or invalid. Hence the complaints above referred

filed prior to the petitioners having consented to the statutory

forms being declared void by the Registrar of Companies and the

complaint or complaints in respect of the subsequent events of the

petitioners resubmitting the statutory forms declaring the

directorship of the petitioners and the resignation of the

complainant and his wife, are an exercise in futility. The 57 complainant and his wife will necessarily have to take recourse to

Section 237 of the 1956 Act. It may eventually result in

prosecution under Section 242 thereof. The complaints seeking

prosecution for the alleged offences in respect of which a special

procedure is provided is thus misconceived and not maintainable.

In so far as the complaint filed by Krishna Mohan Ramaneni is

concerned, the same is now redundant in view of his stand as

reflected hereinabove. 12. In so far as the complaints pertaining to the denial of the

status of the complainant, Madhukar Angur, as the Chancellor,

Alliance University and his subsequent removal from the said

position, while incidentally reiterating the allegations which are

the subject matter of the earlier complaints, against the accused -

petitioners, is certainly not a subject matter that can be adjudicated

before the criminal court. There is no dispute that with the

enactment of the Alliance University Act, 2010 , it was Madhukar

Angur who was named the Chancellor. It is also not in dispute 58 that the term of office was for life. The Act does not provide for

the removal of the Chancellor from office. However, having

regard to certain grave circumstances, the extreme measure of

removal has been exercised. In this regard, the correctness or the

validity of the same is necessarily to be answered by the State

Government in terms of Section 57 of the said Act. Or it would

be an option open for the complainant to approach such other

forum which could exercise jurisdiction, in addressing the legality

of such removal. But it is certainly not the criminal court which

could address the issue. The reiteration of other allegations

against the accused which are already subject matter of other

complaints referred to above would hardly clothe the court below

with any such jurisdiction. In the result the writ petitions are allowed. The proceedings

pending in Crime No.76/2016, Crime No.104/2015, Crime

No.108/2016, Crime No.115/2016, Crime No.105/2015, and

Crime No.97/2015 of Anekal Police Station and the order dated

29.09.2015 passed in C.C.No.955/2015, order dated 29.9.2015 in 59 C.C.No.956/2015 and the order dated 27.7.2015 in

C.C.No.701/2015 by the Principal Civil Judge and JMFC, Anekal,

are hereby quashed. Any consequential orders freezing bank accounts or such

other restraint orders against the petitioners issued in the above

proceedings are also set at naught. Sd/- JUDGE

KS*