This petition under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. has been filed invoking
 extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court, seeking quashment of FIR No. 498/2013
 dated 28.10.2013 registered at P.S. Cyber and Hi-Tech Crime, Bhopal u/s 420 of
 IPC, 66A, 66D of I.T. Act which culminated into charge sheet no. 143 dated
 27.01.2014 u/s 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 , 120B and 34 of IPC, u/s 43-B, 65,
 66-A, 66-D, 71, 74 and 85 of Information Technology Act, 2000 , u/s 20-C, 21-A,
 21-C, 21-G, 21- H of Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 , u/s 23- S of
 Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and subsequently (sections have been
 mentioned according to the charge sheet), based on Notification issued by the
 State of Madhya Pradesh transferring the investigation to CBI, the crime was
 reregistered vide FIR No. RC0682014E0002-CBI/EOW-Mum/EO-III/ND dated
 19.03.2014 at P.S. CBI, EOW, Mumbai which later transferred to CBI/EO-III,
 New Delhi and ultimately culminated into a supplementary charge sheet no.
 22/2020 dated 30.12.2020 u/s 420 and 120B of IPC, Section 66-D of IT Act,
 2000. 2. Brief facts necessary for the disposal of this petition are that petitioner No.
 6 Amit Soni along with his real brother Anurag Soni and complainant Lokesh
 Sharma had established a company named A.U. Commodities Pvt. Ltd. in 2010
 which later changed to M/s Moneyhouse Commodities (here-in-after referred to as
 the 'Company'). This company was authorized for future trading by Multi
 Commodity Exchange (in short MCX). On 22.07.2011, complainant Hemant Soni
 was appointed director of the said company. Initially, in 2010-11, complainant
 Kamlesh Dave was an authorized signatory of the said company. He was
 authorized to deal with all sorts of financial and administrative operations of the Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM 4 company under his signature. From 2011 onward, the entire work of the said
 company was being managed by complainant Hemant Soni. Due to some personal
 difficulties, petitioner Amit Soni resigned from the directorship of the said
 company in February 2013 and in the same year 2013, petitioner No. 4 Vinay
 Mahajan was appointed as Director. At the time of filing of the charge sheet,
 Anurag Soni and Vinay Mahajan were Directors of the Company. Anurag Soni
 was the sleeping director and was not looking after the day-to-day affairs of the
 company. At one point of time, complainants Navin Raghuvanshi, Hemant Soni
 and Lokesh Sharma were also Directors of the Company. Accused Amjad Belim,
 Vijay Semre, Swapnil Bhatt, Rajesh Rupawat, and Amit @ Gopal Neema were
 working in different offices of the company either as workers or managers.
 Accused Kunal Chaumar @ George and Rakesh Batra were providing technical
 support to the Company. 3. On 17.10.2013, complainants Vishal Garg, Lokesh Sharma, Navin
 Raghuvanshi, Samit Bule (since dead), Rajesh Soni, Kamlesh Dave, Hemant Soni,
 and Chandra Prakash Rathore filed a written complaint at P.S. Cyber and Hi-Tech
 Crime, Bhopal, M.P. on the basis of which Crime No. 498/2013 u/s 420 of IPC, Sections 66A and 66D of Information Technology Act, 2000, was registered on
 28.10.2013 against the petitioners & others. Finding irregularities in the
 investigation, ADG (Cyber) recommended the transfer of the same to the Crime
 Investigation Department (for short CID), pursuant thereto; the investigation was
 handed over to the CID on 04.11.2013. Thereafter, vide Notification No. F-12-
 91/2013 B-1/(Two) dated 02.12.2013, the Home Department, Government of
 Madhya Pradesh requested the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and
 Pension, Government of India to transfer the investigation of this FIR to the
 Central Bureau of Investigation (hereinafter referred to as 'CBI'). Vide
 Notification No. 228/84/2013- AVD-II dated 10.03.2014 Ministry of Personnel, Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM 5 Public Grievances and Pension, Government of India handed over the
 investigation of this FIR No. 498/2013 to CBI. But, after the request was made by
 the State Govt. to the Central Govt. but before the order of transfer of the FIR
 could be passed, the CID filed charge-sheet no. 143 dated 27/28.01.2014 u/s 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 , 120B and 34 of IPC, u/s 43(b), 65, 66A, 66D, 71, 74 and
 85 of Information Technology Act, 2000 , u/s 20(c), 21(a), 21(c), 21(g), 21(h) of Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 , u/s 23 of Securities Contracts
 (Regulation) Act, 1956 against applicant Nos. 1 to 3 and applicant Nos. 5 & 6
 before the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Bhopal. The CBI investigated the
 crime and after about 7 years filed a supplementary charge sheet no. 22/2020
 dated 30.12.2020 u/s 420 , 120B of IPC and Section 66-D of IT Act, 2000 against
 applicant No. 4 as well as u/s 420 & 120B of IPC against applicant No. 7 i.e. the
 Company, which is pending trial for framing of charges. 4. The complainants have made following allegations in their complaint: 5. During the investigation, MCX informed that 'Moneyhouse Commodities
 Pvt. Ltd.' was its registered member with member ID 40855 and was legally
 authorized for 'Forward Trading' and that using its platform, had 'Forward
 Trades' turnover of Rs. 22,635.37 crores and earned profit of Rs. 1,68,54,905/-
 during 2011-13. 6. According to the investigator, some persons were indulged in unauthorized
 'Forward Trading' or 'Dabba Trading' outside the portal of MCX by using 'Meta
 Trade-5' software (here-in-after referred to as MT-5). This software was
 developed and owned by MetaQuotes Inc, Cyprus. Its price was $75,000/- (Rs.45
 lacs). In reply to a query, authorized representative of 'MetaQuotes' in India
 Manoj Chaudhary informed the police that he had not sold 'Meta Trade-5' to
 anyone in India. He further informed that the company (MetaQuotes) had sold
 'MT-5' to 'Wintrade Pvt Ltd, Dubai' and for this purchase, one Rakesh Batra had
 contacted MetaQuotes, but the Director of 'Wintrade Pvt Ltd' Manish Chetwani
 informed that he had never purchased this software. He also denied any business
 relation or even acquaintance with Amit Soni. It was found that Rakesh Batra was
 a technical associate of 'Moneyhouse Commodities Pvt. Ltd.' (of the accused
 persons). The police arrested him and based on his information, seized a server. The analysis of data stored in this server by the Central Forensic Science
 Laboratory (CFSL), unearthed that using 'MT-5' software, trade/turnover worth
 Rs.72 crore had been done by backtracking the MCX. The competent authority of
 the 'Forward Markets Commission' (for short FMC) also confirmed this
 unauthorized trade in its interim as well as final opinion dated 26.01.2014 and
 28.03.2014. 7. It further emerged in the investigation that with intent to host 'MT-5', a
 dedicated space on the server of 'Cyber Futuristics Pvt Ltd', Noida was taken on
 the lease of Rs.23,000/- per month by 'Skytel Services', Secunderabad,
 Hyderabad, which, when investigated, was not found on the given address. Rohan
 Raj Reddy and Anoop Kumar Dhali were found Directors of 'Skytel Services' but
 they also could not be traced. Skytel Services took the server on 29.07.2013 but
 closed it on 09.11.2013. The rent was paid through e-payment. 8. CA of 'Moneyhouse Commodities Pvt. Ltd.', Satya Narayan Agrawal
 produced balance sheet and IT returns of the company showing profit of Rs.
 1274/-, 90436/- and 14,73,000/- earned by the company in the year 2010-11,
 2011-12, and 2012-13 respectively, while it had paid Rs.49.50 lacs as rent and
 advance for its offices at 509, New Delhi House, Barha Khamba Road and P-15,
 Connaught Place New Delhi in the financial year 2013-14. On inquiry of e-mails
 of Rakesh Batra, "Yahoo" informed that as per one e-mail, the accused persons
 had paid $45,000/- to buy 'Meta Trade-5'. Thus, according to the police, in the
 last about 5 months prior to registration of the offence, the accused persons
 invested about Rs.75,00,000/- lacs, which was not possible, considering the
 income of the company in FY 2012-13 and this indicates that by concealing their
 actual income, the accused persons had invested a huge amount in 'Forward
 Trading' and earned a huge profit by trading on unauthorized portal created by
 them using 'MT-5' software through their computers, mobile phones etc. They run Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM 8 a parallel exchange for 'Forward Trading' illegally from their offices in Indore,
 Delhi, Mumbai, Jaipur etc., therefore, the CID filed the charge sheet as stated in
 para 3 above. 9. The petitioners have challenged aforesaid charge sheets on the grounds that
 this is an outburst of the action taken by petitioner Amit Soni against the
 complainants, who were otherwise his close relatives and were associated with
 him for years. 6 out of 8 complainants were themselves directors of or associated
 in various capacities with the same company wherein they say that they had
 invested the alleged amount for forward trading. Petitioner Amit Soni and Anurag
 Soni are real brothers while complainant Hemant Soni and Rajesh Soni are their
 first cousins. The financial disparities between them were apparent and this reason
 was a seed for their enmity. The entire business of the company was being
 managed by experienced employees under the management of complainant
 Hemant Soni, who himself was the director of the company. Later, taking
 advantage of the faith deposed by Amit Soni in them due to close relations and
 misusing their position in the company, Hemant and Rajesh started manipulating
 the accounts of the company and started siphoning money from the accounts.
 After some time, Amit came to know about their misdeeds and objected to the
 same, but they didn't admit their fault and refused to settle the accounts, therefore,
 he (Amit) made several complaints against them and also lodged FIRs (Annexure
 P/5 colly). All this turned their relations sour. Disgruntled by the action taken by
 Amit Soni, with their associates Hemant and Rajesh conspired against him and
 taking advantage of their relations with the IG Cyber Crime, Bhopal Shri Anil
 Gupta, manage to get the present case registered at Cyber Police Station, Bhopal
 even when both the parties belong to Indore, all the alleged transactions had taken
 place in Indore and there is an independent Cyber Crime Police Station in Indore. No reason has been shown to usurp such jurisdiction by the Cyber Crime police
 station, Bhopal. 10. The respondents are answerless as to when the parties were residents of
 Indore, the disputed transaction had taken place at Indore and there is a Cyber
 Police station having territorial jurisdiction over the cause, why the case was
 registered at or investigated by the police station Cyber & Hi-Tech crime Bhopal.
 This speaks volumes about the allegation of malice, bias, arbitrariness, partiality,
 and misuse of authority by the officials concerned. 11. The police were surprisingly quick in taking action as just after registration
 of the offence; without giving notice u/S 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure
 or following the due process, they picked up petitioner Swapnil Bhatt from
 Bhopal and petitioners Anurag Soni, Vijay Semre and Rakesh Batra at around 7
 am on 30th October 2013 from their residences in Indore, took them in a vehicle
 of the complainants to Bhopal, detained them in illegal custody for more than 72
 hours at the Cyber Police Station Bhopal and tortured them physically and
 mentally, which is clear from the statement of Shri Ashok Dohare ADG Cyber
 Crime, Bhopal and from the medical report of petitioner No. 5 done on 7.11.2013
 at the Central Jail Bhopal confirming multiple injuries on his body and atrocities
 of the police they faced. All the time the complainants were present with the
 police. These facts have been admitted by various police officials in their
 respective statements. 12. When the petitioners raised their voice against the illegal action of the
 police, head of the department Additional Director General of Police (ADG)
 Cyber and Hi-tech Crimes, Bhopal Shri Ashok Dohare himself inquired into the
 matter and taking an extraordinary step to establish rule of law, withdrew the
 investigation from his own subordinates and handed it over to the Crime
 Investigation Department (CID) just within 4 days of registration of the FIR. He Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM 10 further went to the extent that he deposed on oath before the Judicial Magistrate
 First Class, Bhopal about the irregularities and illegal acts of his subordinates
 (Annexure P/6) in the inquiry of complaint filed by petitioner Amit Soni. 13. In his statement dated 16.07.2018 recorded by JMFC, Bhopal; ADG Cyber
 Crime Shri Dohare stated that on 31st October 2013 IG Anil Gupta informed him
 that petitioners Swapnil Bhat, Rakesh Gupta, and Anurag Soni were in their
 custody. On 01.11.2013, at around 5 pm, while the police officers and
 Complainants were subjecting the petitioners to physical torture, he saw the
 complainants and the petitioners were present together in the Cyber Crime police
 station, Bhopal. He further stated that on 2.11.2014 at around 11:45, he spoke to
 Anurag Soni, but as per the arrest memo, he was arrested at 16:45 hours on
 02.11.2013. Further, it may be seen that the arrest was made at Bhopal and the
 witnesses belong to Indore. 14. It is also argued that pursuant to the atrocities that the Petitioners were
 subjected to, followed by the improper investigation, the Madhya Pradesh Police
 Department initiated a Departmental Inquiry on the investigation team of the
 Cyber Police officers named SHO Seetaram Jha, T.I. KS Baghel, T.I. Sunita
 Katara, A.S.I. Charan Sumer, Head Constable Ishrat Pravin, Constable Ritesh
 Singh, and Kailash Chourasiya under Departmental Inquiry No 02/16. It is also
 pertinent to note that Dy. S.P. Deepak Thakur and Head Constable Ishrat Pravin
 were already facing a trial in a similar case pertaining to Cyber Police, Bhopal
 where Deepak Thakur, who was then posted at the Cyber Police Bhopal initiated a
 similar case u/s 420 of Indian Penal Code and u/s 66A and 66D of the I.T. Act on
 two women who were not only arrested in a manner which contravened all the
 provisions laid down by law and leading judgements rendered by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court and further demanded bribe from them. The aggrieved women
 filed the petition in the Supreme Court for quashing of FIR and the Petition was Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM 11 subsequently allowed and the FIR was quashed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 vide Rini Johar vs State of M.P. (2016) 11 SCC 703 and a departmental inquiry
 was initiated on the said officers. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the said case has
 ordered to pay compensation of Rs. 5-5 lacs each to both the lady victims. 15. It is further pleaded that in the complaint all the complainants made
 allegations that they all paid money to Amit Soni while in their police statements,
 they all named different accused persons to whom they paid that money. The
 seizure of hard discs, mobile phones, electronic gadgets, and documents were not
 done as per the procedure. This evidence was tampered with by the officials of
 Cyber Crime, evidence of which was subsequently collected by the CBI and CID.
 This fact has been mentioned in the CID charge sheet. 16. It is also submitted that the core of the complaint was that the Petitioners
 were running a parallel exchange through Meta Trade 5 and that the Complainants
 have traded and incurred losses. The investigating agency claims that seized data
 contains all trade details of the alleged business done through Meta-Trader by the
 Petitioners/Accused. However, the data retrieved from the server did not contain
 the names of the Complainants. If the Complaint was true, the names of the
 Complainants should have appeared in the data which was extracted from the
 seized server. 17. It had been alleged that the petitioners earned crores of Rupees in profit
 towards the brokerage for the trading on the MT-5 software. However, there is no
 such document to prove this. SEBI the nodal agency to prosecute such crimes did
 not initiate any inquiry on any of the accused persons. The alleged profit earned
 on this dummy software did not reflect on the books of accounts of petitioner
 number 7. Even after intimation given by the investigator, the income tax
 authorities did not initiate any inquiry on the alleged profit earned. The GST
 authority had passed an order to recover a penalty of rupees 24 lacs on the basis of Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM 12 a notional figure. This penalty was quashed by the CGST and Central Excise and
 Customs, Indore on 28.1.2021 and remitted the matter back for reconsideration.
 All this shows that without any concrete evidence, the investigator has filed the
 charge sheet only on the basis of assumptions and presumptions. 18. It is asserted that in his letter dated 15.11.2013 Dy.S.P. Deepak Thakur has
 stated that after accessing the server Rakesh Batra had downloaded the data of the
 server on the desktop and copied the data in a DVD and thereafter the server was
 seized. The fact of copying the data on the DVD and seizure of the said DVD is
 not mentioned in the Panchnama dated 14.11.2013. The Seizure Report or the
 Panchnama of the server is devoid of the exhibit markings of the device as well as
 the Hard Drives. Instead of noting down the name of the device, the police have
 noted down the name of the Motherboard which is a replaceable component of the
 computer device. The details of the server seized in the Panchnama are not
 matching with the server that was rented for the said IP address. In the invoice
 raised by Cyber Futuristics on one Rohan Raj Reddy, it is mentioned that the
 server has 2 hard drives of 1TB each, while the Panchnama and the forensic report
 mention that the server consists of 3 hard drives of 1TB each. This shows that the
 said DVD is planted later. This DVD was sent for analysis to Forward Market
 Commission (FMC), but certificate as mandated by Section 65B Evidence Act,
 has not been issued. All these facts and circumstances render the DVD and
 authenticity of data contained therein unauthorized, seriously doubtful, and
 inadmissible in evidence. Since the report of FMC confirming Dabba trading is
 based on this inadmissible piece of evidence, the report of FMC is also
 inadmissible in evidence, and in absence of the report of FMC, nothing remains
 on record to prosecute the petitioners and their prosecution becomes a futile
 exercise. 19. It is asseverated that the investigating agencies have not identified the IP
 address of the devices, which can prove that the said data was created/accessed by
 the petitioners. In absence of such evidence, this cannot be said that the files were
 indeed created or accessed by the petitioners. 20. It is also contended that the CID was not competent to file a charge sheet
 dated 27.01.2014 as prior to that Home Department, State of Madhya Pradesh
 vide its notification No. F-12-91/2013B-1/(Two) dated 22.12.2013 had already
 recommended to transfer the said investigation to C.B.I. While the matter was
 pending consideration before the Union Government, the CID which had seized to
 be in charge of the case & become functus officio, acted in haste and filed the
 aforesaid charge sheet in an illegal and arbitrary manner. This shows that the CID
 was also working under influence of IG Cyber Crime, Shri Anil Gupta, who was a
 close relative of the then home minister of the State, under whose administrative
 control the police department comes. 21. On all these grounds, the petitioners prayed for quashing both the FIRs and
 all subsequent proceedings carried out thereunder. 22. Learned counsel for the CBI controverted the arguments made by learned
 counsel for the petitioners and supported the case of the department. 23. The respondent CBI has contested the claim of the petitioners on the basis
 of the report of the CFSL and the opinion of an expert of FMC. The report of
 CFSL dated 24.01.2014 states that the MetaTrader 5 software is loaded on the
 server of M/s. Cyber Futuristics Pvt. Ltd. (para 10 & 12 of reply) and the expert of
 FMC opined that 'Dabba Trading' had been effected by the Moneyhouse; the
 company of the petitioners. 24. The opinion of the expert of the FMC states that besides the authorized
 trading, Moneyhouse was also indulged in illegal or Dabba trading and running a
 mini-like exchange. It (Moneyhouse) was using different servers for legal Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM 14 transactions and different servers for illegal transactions. It further states that
 except for a few minor differences, the commodities and contracts traded on the
 platform of the MCX by the Moneyhouse (as per the documents submitted by the
 MCX) are exactly tallied with the commodities traded and their prices in the other
 server located at Noida in the premises of Cyber futuristic Pvt. Ltd. (indicated in
 the documents seized), while the clients, whose names have appeared in the
 trading details extracted from the server located at Noida are totally different than
 the clients, whose list has been provided by the exchange (MCX). Since the
 names of the clients that appeared in the documents seized did not include in the
 list of the clients provided by the exchange (MCX), it can be concluded that the
 transactions entered on behalf of these clients by the member (Moneyhouse) have
 not been reported to the exchange. The transactions worth about Rs.72 crores
 recorded in the documents seized have not been reported to the MCX by the
 member (Moneyhouse). These transactions had been traded and settled by the
 member outside the MCX, while being a member of the MCX, it was obligatory
 for him to route the transactions through the exchange platform. 25. It is also opined that trade outside the platform of the MCX is in violation
 of provisions of Section 15 of the FCRA. This is a cognizable offence under Section 23 of the FCRA and is punishable under Sections 21(a) and 21(c) of the
 said Act. As per Section 22 of the FCRA, where the offence has been committed
 by a company, every person, who at the time the offence was committed, was in
 charge of and was responsible to the company for theconduct of the business of
 the company as well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence
 and shall be liable to be prosecuted and punished. 26. The learned counsel for CBI further referred to a few e-mails sent from [email protected] to the mail ID [email protected] and [email protected] and asserted that these emails very well confirm the Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM 15 allegation of forward trading done outside the exchange of the MCX by the
 petitioners. 27. Heard the counsels for the parties at length and perused the record. 28. Before dealing with the merits of case, it would be proper to consider the
 nature and scope of the inherent power of the High Court under Section 482 of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure. These are extraordinary powers and has to be used
 sparingly only to prevent abuse of the process of law or otherwise to secure the
 ends of justice. The Hon'ble Supreme Court vide two leading judgements has
 established guidelines for the High Courts to consider while exercising the said
 powers to quash FIR. In R.P. Kapur v. State of Punjab (1960) 3 SCR 388 : AIR
 1960 SC 866 the Court held that such powers should be used: 29. In the case of State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal , 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 30. The learned Senior Counsel Shri Khare referred to the third guideline of R.P. Kapoor 's case and 7th guideline of Bhajanlal 's case (supra) which states that
 "where the allegations constitute an offence, but there is no legal evidence
 adduced or the evidence adduced clearly or manifestly fails to prove the charge."
 and that "where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide
 and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for
 wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private
 and personal grudge", the FIR as well as charge sheet filed pursuant thereto may
 be quashed. 31. In the matter on hand, the prosecution has come with a case that in
 collusion with the other accused, the directors of Moneyhouse Commodities
 illegally utilized MT-5 software and conducted trades parallel to MCX between
 15.09.2013 to 26.10.2013 (Para 10 of reply). Undisputedly, petitioner Amit Soni
 had resigned from the Moneyhouse in February 2013, therefore, his prosecution
 for this allegation is absolutely not tenable. 32. The respondents have not offered any comment on the allegations made by
 the petitioners and mentioned in para 9 to 13 above. They have created a jungle
 where nothing is clear. They have jumbled up the facts and knitted a web and
 made the entire case complicated. However, when we enter into deep, it appears
 that the very foundation of the entire case of the CID/CBI is missing and the case
 is swinging in the air only. 33. The only evidence which is pointed out by the learned counsel representing
 the CBI is the report of CFSL to the effect that Meta Trade-5 software has been
 installed on some devices and the opinion of an expert of MCX to the effect that
 some illegal 'Dabba Trade' (trades in commodities outside the portal of MCX) has
 been done by the petitioners by using MT-5 software. Undisputedly both; the
 report and the opinion are based on the data retrieved from a server placed in the Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM 18 premises of a company named 'Cyber Futuristics Pvt. Ltd., Noida' and there is
 nothing on record to show that the 'Moneyhouse' or the petitioners have any
 connection with this server. There is nothing to show that the devices on which
 the software Meta Trade-5 is said to have been installed; belong to the petitioners
 or that they were using or had ever used those devices. A perusal of the entire
 record does not show that any efforts were ever made by the investigator to collect
 bills of purchase of those hardwires or software. There is no other evidence on
 record to show that the petitioner had purchased this hardware or the devices or
 the software. 34. The prosecution alleged that the petitioners used Meta Trade-5 software but
 the investigation itself revealed that the owner/developer of this software
 MetaQuotes, Cyprus had never sold their software to any of the petitioners or
 even to anyone in India. The investigation then tried to show that actually it was
 procured through a Dubai-based company 'Wintrade' but its director Manish
 Chetawani informed that he also had never sold this software to anyone in India.
 He stated that he himself had never purchased this software. He also stated that he
 neither knows Amit Soni nor has any business relations with him. Installation of
 Meta Trade-5 needs a dedicated server which was not available to the petitioners.
 Then the investigation went into the direction that such a dedicated server was
 procured from 'Cyber Futuristics Pvt Ltd', Noida on the lease of Rs.23,000/- per
 month, but here also it emanated that this deal was done by 'Skytel Services',
 Secunderabad, Hyderabad. The prosecution could not collect any evidence to
 show that this 'Skytel' has any connection with the petitioners or with their
 company. The investigation could not even trace this company or its directors
 Rohan Raj Reddy or Anoop Kumar Dhali. The existence of 'Skytel' could not be
 established. Any link to connect 'Skytel' and 'Cyber Futuristics' with Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM 19 'Moneyhouse' could not be collected. Any connection between the director of
 these companies also could not be established. 35. All the complainants complained that Amit Soni had provided them with a
 mobile handset to each of them with a SIM and preinstalled Meta Trade-5
 software to do forward trading, but when investigating officer served them notice
 to produce those mobiles, they failed to produce them pretending that Amit had
 taken them back. In their individual reply, they all cited a common reason that
 after some time all those handsets developed some fault and when they
 complained about this malfunctioning of the software, Amit and Anurag Soni took
 them back stating that there is some technical fault. They did not produce bills of
 the mobile set given to them. This is a fact of common knowledge that even in
 absence of hardware i.e. mobile set, the data available on the server of the service
 provider is easily retrievable if the SIM number or user ID or password is
 available. But in the case on hand, the complainants even did not reveal the SIM
 or mobile number, or name of the service provider or their own user IDs or
 passwords stating that Amit Soni only knows all this information. Even if they
 would have revealed their user IDs and passwords, the data could have been
 retrieved and that would have substantiated their allegation. In absence of these
 devices or this information, the basic and prime evidence could not be made
 available to the experts of MCX or CFSL. Thus, this important link to connect the
 accused persons with the crime is completely missing in this case. 36. Hence, none of the sources explored by the investigator could lead the
 crime to the petitioners. 37. The report of the CFSL as well as the opinion of the expert of MCX is
 based on the devices seized by the CID, but when there is no evidence that those
 devices belongs to the petitioners, this report or opinion cannot be used against the
 petitioners. 38. There is not a bit of evidence to show that any computer or mobile phone or
 any other device on which software MetaTrader-5 was found installed belong to
 any of the petitioners, in such a situation even if it appears that this software was
 installed in those devices, the petitioners cannot be held responsible for the same. 39. All the complainants had made an identical complaints that they paid Rs.2
 lakhs each to Amit and Anurag Soni to get a link for forward trading in
 commodities on the MCX, but when asked about the source of this money, they
 replied in a chorus that they had borrowed either from friends or from relatives
 without any further details of those friends or relatives or their sources of
 arranging funds. This entire money was paid in cash and that too without taking
 any receipt or without entering it in the accounts of the company even when most
 of them were on board of the company or directly connected with the company
 either as directors or as employees. Except for their verbal claim, there is nothing
 to show that they had ever paid any money to the petitioners. At the same time,
 they stated that while taking shares in the company in 2011, they paid the entire
 money either by cheques or through bank accounts. When they were asked as to
 when their relations with the petitioners were not good, why they believed them or
 invested money, they did not reply. Looking to the status of the complainants in
 the company, their bitter relations with petitioner Amit and Anurag Soni, their
 identical reply and non-disclosure of the source of money paid, nature of
 transaction i.e. cash without taking any receipt, absence of entry of alleged
 payment in the books of accounts of the company, in the peculiar facts and
 circumstances makes their allegations false on the face of it. 40. Admittedly, the company of the petitioners Moneyhouse commodities is a
 registered member of the MCX and was authorized to forward trade. Using
 MCX's portal and the authority of licence issued by the MCX, several clients of
 the company of the petitioners, entered in thousands of forward trading contracts. The number of such transactions, the turnover, or the profit earned by the
 company as brokerage does not make them liable for any prosecution. The
 company or the petitioners were indulge in forward trading since 2010. The total
 turnover of forward trading contracts done through the company of the petitioners
 is Rs. 22,635.37 crores. The total period of alleged 'Dabba trading', as alleged by
 the prosecution, is only 41 days starting from 15.09.2013 and ending on
 26.10.2013. As per the prosecution itself, the total turnover of such trading is
 Rs.72 crores. Turnover means a total of price of a commodity bought or sold.
 Only one such transaction (buy+sale) may go into crores of rupees. In the
 backdrop of all these facts, in absence of any cogent and sterling quality evidence,
 only on the basis of oral evidence, that too of those who have malice, hatred, and
 jealousy towards the petitioners and whose conduct is dubious, the prosecution of
 the petitioner, in my considered opinion, is nothing but abuse of process of law. 41. The learned Counsel for the CBI referred to some e-mails sent from e-mail
 ID [email protected] to the mail ID [email protected] and [email protected] and submitted that detailed scrutiny of data revealed
 that this e-mail account was created for Dabba Trading and transaction of Meta
 Trade-5 software. Various reports related to Dabba Trading were sent from [email protected] to Amit and Anurag Soni. The e-mail ID [email protected] also contains various transactions related to Dabba Trading
 on Meta Trade-5 software. He further averred that these emails were exchanged
 amongst the accused and various clients/ persons containing various PDF and
 Excel documents as attachments and indicates the fraudulent trading transactions
 with various persons undertaken on Meta Trade-5 software and reflect the
 magnitude at which the said fraudulent trading of commodities was done by the
 accused. 42. But, when asked that reply (para 21) is silent on the fact as to who created
 these mail IDs or who were the users thereof, the learned counsel had no reply to
 the query of the Court. It was further asked from the learned counsel for the CBI
 as to how does the investigator propose to prove the transactions reflected on
 these mail IDs as Dabba Trading, he again has no answer. None of the agencies
 have proved that the email IDs were indeed created or used by the petitioners.
 Investigation agencies utterly failed to prove that the emails were accessed from
 the devices which were used by any of the petitioners. There is no proof that the
 files which were found on the server as well as the said emails were generated
 through the computers which were in possession of the petitioners. If the data
 seized from the server belonged to the petitioners or if the said email IDs were
 used by the petitioners, then the same should have been corroborated through an
 IP address of a computer that was in use by the petitioners. In absence of any such
 evidence, this evidence also cannot be taken into account to decide the culpability
 of the petitioners. 43. The CID/CBI have filed the charge sheet against the petitioner under Sections 467 , 468 , 471 , and 474 IPC but neither such charges have been pressed
 during the argument, nor any document has been pointed out which was forged or
 fabricated by the petitioners or anyone of them or has ever been used, claiming
 them genuine. In the complaint made by the complainants, there is no allegation
 that the complainants handed over any money in any capacity to any of the
 petitioners except Swapnil Bhatt who, according to the complaint, might have
 received that money on behalf of Amit and Anurag Soni and there is no evidence
 of handing over any money by the complainants to Amit and Anurag Soni or even
 to Swapnil Bhatt, therefore, the offence under Section 409 is also not made out. 44. When there is no proof that any of the devices having meta trader-5
 software belongs to the petitioner or that it was got installed by the petitioner or Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM 23 that using those devices the petitioners traded outside the portal of the MCX, the
 offences under Section 15 read with section 20(c) or the offences under Section
 21(a) 21(c) , 21(g) and 21(h) of Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 have
 not been made out. 45. Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 was enacted with the object to
 prevent undesirable transactions in securities by regulating the business of dealing
 therein, by prohibiting operations, and by providing for certain other matters
 connected therewith. 'Securities' as defined in Section 2(h) of this Act, 'includes- (i) shares, scrips, stocks, bonds, debentures, debenture stock or other marketable
 securities of a like nature in or any incorporated company or other body corporate; (ii) government securities; and (iii) rights or interests in securities. Section 23 of
 the Act prescribes penalties for contravention of various provisions of the Act, but
 "Securities" is not a subject of the present matter. There is no allegation,
 whatsoever it may be, that the petitioner dealt with any 'securities contract' or that
 they contravened any law regulating such contracts. There is nothing on record,
 except a mention of the provision of the Act in the charge sheet, to show that the
 petitioners effected any transaction relating to securities or they violated any
 provision of the Act, 1956 while dealing with such transaction. 46. Section 43(b) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 prescribes penalties
 and compensation for damage to computer, computer system etc. It says that if
 any person without the permission of the owner or any other person who is in
 charge of a computer, computer system or computer network downloads, copies
 or extracts any data, computer data base or information from such computer,
 computer system or computer network including information or data held or
 stored in any removable storage medium shall be liable to pay damages by way of
 compensation. 47. Section 65 of the IT Act makes intentional concealment, tampering,
 destruction or alteration of any computer source code, computer programme,
 computer system or computer network punishable when the computer source code
 is required to be kept or maintained by law. 48. Section 66A of the said Act prescribes punishment for sending offensive
 messages through communication services, etc. It states that any person who
 sends, by means of a computer resource or a communication device (a) any
 information that is grossly offensive or has menacing character; or (b) any
 information which he knows to be false, but for the purpose of causing
 annoyance, inconvenience, danger, obstruction, insult, injury, criminal
 intimidation, enmity, hatred or ill will, persistently by making use of such
 computer resource or a communication device; or (c) any electronic mail or
 electronic mail message for the purpose of causing annoyance or inconvenience or
 to deceive or to mislead the addressee or recipient about the origin of such
 messages, shall be punished for the such act under the Act. 49. Section 66D of the IT Act prescribes punishment for cheating by
 personation by using computer resources. Section 71 of the said Act prescribes a
 penalty for making any misrepresentation or suppressing any material fact from
 the Controller or the Certifying Authority for obtaining any licence or Electronic
 Signature Certificate. Section 74 makes creation or publication of an Electronic
 Signature Certificate for any fraudulent or unlawful purpose a punishable offence.
 It says that if any person knowingly creates, publishes or otherwise makes
 available an Electronic Signature Certificate for any fraudulent or unlawful
 purpose, he shall be punished under this Section. Section 85 provides that where a
 person committing a contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of any
 rule, direction or order made thereunder is a company, every person who, at the
 time the contravention was committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to, Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM 25 the company for the conduct of the business of the company as well as the
 company, shall be guilty of the contravention and shall be liable to be proceeded
 against and punished accordingly. 50. There is no evidence to even prima facie show the availability of essential
 elements to constitute the offences under Section 43(b), 65, 66A, 66D, 71, 74 or
 85 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 . In the case on hand charge sheet
 filed by the CID as well as filed by the CBI does not say that any damage was
 caused to any computer, computer system or computer network etc. without
 permission of the owner or in charge of such computer or computer system or that
 any data stored in computer was altered, destroyed or tampered with or that any
 offensive messages were sent to any person by means of a computer resource or a
 communication device or that there was some misrepresentation or suppression of
 any material fact from the Controller or the Certifying Authority for obtaining any
 licence or Electronic Signature Certificate, therefore, these sections also do not
 attract in this case. 51. It would be apposite to note here that in this case the CBI had taken over
 the investigation of this case in March 2014. Investigated the same for next about
 7 years and ultimately submitted a supplementary charge sheet against the 3
 accused persons who were left off by the CID stating that the investigation against
 them was pending. It does not appear from the record that during this long period
 the CBI could collect any fresh material evidence which supports the allegations
 made against the petitioners substantially, yet without disclosing any further
 details and without telling the particulars of the issues for which the investigation
 is being kept pending, the CBI has filed the charge sheet keeping the investigation
 pending. It is not a healthy practice to keep the investigation pending like this till
 eternity and keep the sword handing over the heads of the petitioners. 52. In light of the above discussion, in my considered view when there is no
 evidence to show that any device, mobile phone, or server having MT-5 software
 belongs to the petitioners, when seizure of the server manifestly violets the
 procedure prescribed by law, when the procedure to retrieve data from the server
 is not in conformity with law and creates doubt, when the data provided for
 analysis is itself unreliable, then all reports based upon such data, which has been
 heavily relied upon by the prosecution are liable to be rejected at the threshold
 especially when the prosecution has nothing to say against an allegation of bias,
 arbitrariness, hi handedness and also against the conduct of the investigators. In
 such a state of the evidence, I have no hesitation to say that continuation of the
 prosecution of the petitioners is nothing but an abuse of the process of law, suffers
 with malice, and to secure the ends of justice deserves to be and is quashed
 hereby. 53. The bail bonds furnished by the petitioners stand discharged. The articles
 seized from the petitioners be returned them back and the server be returned back
 to the authorized person of 'Cyber Futuristice Pvt. Ltd.' 54. With the aforesaid the petition stands allowed and disposed off accordingly. (VIRENDER SINGH)
 JUDGE
 anand Signature Not Verified Signed by: ANAND KRISHNA SEN Signing time: 3/14/2023 2:25:34 PM