PER G.D. AGRAWAL, PRESIDENT :- 2. Ground No.1 of the assessee's appeal, which reads as under, is
of general nature and needs no separate adjudication :- 2 ITA-1878/Del/2017 3. Ground No.2 of the assessee's appeal reads as under :- 4. The facts of the case are that the assessee is a limited liability
company located in the USA. It is engaged in the business as
accredited domain name registrar authorized by Internet Corporation
for Assigned Names and Numbers (in short 'ICANN'). For the year
under consideration, the assessee filed return declaring income of
`20,42,77,864/- being the receipt from web hosting services/on
demand sale. The assessee offered the same as income from royalty.
However, the Assessing Officer assessed the same as fees for technical
services which is affirmed by learned DRP. Though the assessee has
raised ground Nos.3 & 4 against the action of the Assessing Officer
assessing the income from web hosting services as FTS, as against
royalty income declared by the assessee, such grounds are not
pressed at the time of hearing. In addition to above, the assessee had
income from domain registration fees amounting to `17,41,54,636/-,
which is claimed to be not taxable in India. The Assessing Officer
assessed the same as income from royalty. The relevant finding in this
regard in paragraph Nos.6 to 6.5 of his order reads as under :- Domain names are organized in subordinate levels (sub
domains) of the DNS root domain, which is nameless. The
first-level set of domain names are the top-level domains
(TLDs), including the generic top-level domains (gTLDs),
such as the prominent domains com, info, net, edu, and
org, and the country code top-level domains (ccTLDs).
Below these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are
the second-level and third-level domain names that are
typically open for reservation by end-users who wish to
connect local area networks to the Internet, create other
publicly accessible Internet resources or run web sites.
The registration of these domain names is usually
administered by domain name registrars who sell their
services to the public. A fully qualified domain name (FQDN) is a domain name
that is completely specified in the hierarchy of the DNS,
having no parts omitted. Labels in the Domain Name System are case-insensitive
and may therefore be written in any desired capitalization
 4 ITA-1878/Del/2017

method, but most commonly domain names are written in
lowercase in technical contexts. Technical requirements and process

In the process of registering a domain name and
maintaining authority over the new name space created,
registrars use several key pieces of information connected
with a domain : Billing contact. The party responsible for receiving billing
invoices from the domain name registrar and paying
applicable fees. Name servers. Most registrars provide two or more name
servers as part of the registration service. However, a
registrant may specify its own authoritative name servers
to host a domain's resource records. The registrar's
policies govern the number of servers and the type of
server information required. Some providers require a
hostname and the corresponding IP address or just the
hostname, which must be resolvable either in the new
domain, or exist elsewhere. Based on traditional
requirements (RFC 1034), typically a minimum of two
servers is required. 5 ITA-1878/Del/2017

Domain names may be formed from the set of
alphanumeric ASCII characters (a-z, A-Z, 0-9), but
characters are case-insensitive. In addition the hyphen is
permitted if it is surrounded by characters, digits or
hyphens, although it is not to start or end a label. Labels
are always separated by the full stop (period) character in
the textual name representation. 6.3 What are the functions performed by ICANN and
what are the functions performed by Go Daddy in the
procedure

As a technical coordinating body, ICANN (Internet
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers) performs a
variety of functions related to the Internet's unique
identifiers. These include operational functions,
collaboration, coordination and engagement. In this case, clients desirous of services apply to assessee
who in turn enquires from ICANN availability of domain
name. On confirmation, assessee registers the clients for
fees and for conditions as imposed by ICANN. As already mentioned, Godaddy US is a registrar of the
customers who need these services and provide the
services to its customers. And ICANN is the central
organisation who appoints such registrar like Godaddy US
and charge fee from Godaddy under a fixed predetermined
formula. The clients all over the worlds apply for services as per
Proforma given by the assessee and pay fees for the same.
One part of the fees is allegedly received by the Godaddy
for web-hosting which is being offered for tax under royalty
by the assessee and the other part is taken for domain
name registration. A fixed percentage of the latter is given
by the assessee to the ICANN. 6.4 Taxability as Royalty

As per the section 9(1)(vi) of the act : (ii) the imparting of any information concerning the
working of, or the use of, a patent, invention, model,
design, secret formula or process or trade mark or similar
property; (iii) the use of any patent, invention, model, design,
secret formula or process or trade mark or similar
property; (iv) the imparting of any information concerning
technical, industrial, commercial or scientific knowledge,
experience or skill; (iva) the use or right to use any industrial, commercial or
scientific equipment but not including the amounts
referred to in section 44BB; (vi) the rendering of any services in connection with the
activities referred to in sub-clauses (i) to (iv), (iva) and (v). As per article 12 of India US Double Taxation Avoidance
Agreement. 3. The term royalties as used in this Article means : 7 ITA-1878/Del/2017

The definition of royalty under the act is similar to tax
treaty wherein the use of or right to use of any industrial,
commercial, or scientific equipment or similar property
should be treated as royalty. Here, certain terms need to
be clarified in today's information technology atmosphere: 8 ITA-1878/Del/2017

 make available condition is fulfilled as discussed earlier)
 and latter under royalty (because of the right it confers and
 the equipment it provides as discussed earlier). Here, it is
 likely that the assessee is not offering receipts from
 domain registration because it has to pay certain fixed
 percentage to ICANN which is not being paid by the US
 Government. However, it is the relationship of assessee
 and ICANN which should not affect the Indian Revenue in
 any way. In case, the assessee feels the burden of
 taxation because of ICANN payments, the assessee should
 recover the same (tax) payable to India from ICANN. The feasibility of section 201 of the Act, can also be seen in
 the hands of the assessee in view of non-deduction of TDS
 while making payment to ICANN. 6.5 In view of the above, it is concluded that the receipts
 from domain registration fee Rs.17,41,54,636/- of is
 charged to tax as royalty as per the provisions of section
 9(1)(vi) read with section 115A of the I.T.Act." 5. On appeal, learned DRP upheld the finding of the Assessing
Officer. Hence, this appeal by the assessee. At the time of hearing
before us, learned counsel for the assessee, at the outset, stated that
the appellant is not a tax resident of USA and, therefore, does not
claim any benefit under the provisions of India-USA tax treaty. He
stated that taxability of the receipt from domain registration fees
needs to be examined under the provisions of the Income-tax Act,
1961 . He stated that the learned Assessing Officer/DRP have
incorrectly linked web hosting services with domain name registration
services. He stated that these two services have independent
existence. In support of his contention, he referred to a sample web
hosting agreement between the assessee and the customer. He
further submitted that domain name registration is the process of
registering a domain name which identifies one or more IP address
with a name that is easier to remember and use in URLs to identify
particular web pages. The domain name allows others to access user's
website directly with an easy to memorize address instead of using a
numeric IP address. Registering a domain name secures that specific
 9 ITA-1878/Del/2017

internet address. In this regard, he referred to the sample domain
name registration agreement. He further explained the process of
registration of domain name which is as below :- The appellant is not involved in actual purchase and sale of
 domain names (i.e., parking of domain names for
 subsequent sale to the users). It is important to note that
 above process is automated and no human intervention is
 involved for the purpose of domain name registration. In short, following services are rendered by the appellant
 and ICANN under domain name registration : 10 ITA-1878/Del/2017 Section 9(1)(vi) of the Income-tax Act. In support of his contention, he
relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Asia
Satellite Telecommunications Co.Ltd. Vs. DIT - [2011] 197 Taxman 263
(Delhi High Court) and of Authority for Advance Rulings in the case of
Dell International Services (India) Private Limited - [2008] 218 CTR 209
(AAR). In view of the above, it is contended by the learned counsel
that the addition made by the Assessing Officer on account of domain
registration fee amounting to `17,41,54,636/- treating the same as
royalty may be deleted. 7. Learned CIT-DR, on the other hand, relied upon the order of the
Assessing Officer as well as learned DRP and further stated that the
transaction of domain name registration and web hosting services are
interrelated processes. He stated that these are not independent
processes of each other but are inextricably linked/connected to each
other. He further stated that even otherwise, the amount received for
domain name registration is taxable in India as royalty within the
meaning of Section 9 of the Income-tax Act, 1961. He stated that
domain name is an intangible asset similar to trademark. He stated
that appellant has been accredited by ICANN to registered domain
names and, as per agreement between the appellant and ICANN, the
appellant has the right to register, assign, transfer and manage
specific domain names. The appellant enjoys absolute and exclusive
rights to assign domain names under specific domain extensions. The
ICANN owns domain extensions but has granted the registrar all the
rights and risks relating to the assignment, allocation, transfer and
management of specific domain names within specific extensions. The
appellant registrar has thus right to own, allocate, register, transfer,
cancel/deactivate, renew, suspend, auction and exploit domain names
under accreditation agreement between ICANN. The domain name
registration charges were paid to the appellant inside India. In view of
the above, the amount received by the appellant towards domain
 11 ITA-1878/Del/2017

name registration fee is in the nature of royalty within the meaning of Section 9(1)(vi) of the Income-tax Act and has rightly been taxed by
the Assessing Officer and upheld by the DRP. In support of his
contention, he relied upon the following decisions :- (iii) Makemytrip (India) Pvt.Ltd. Vs. DCIT - (2012) (ITA
Nos.3961/Del/2009 & 4087/Del/2009). 8. We have carefully considered the arguments of both the sides
and perused relevant material placed before us. The limited question
before us is whether the domain registration fee received by the
assessee can be termed as royalty. At the outset, we clarify that the
appellant himself has mentioned that since it is not a tax resident of
USA, therefore, it is not claiming any benefit under the provisions of
India-US tax treaty. Accordingly, we have to examine within the
meaning of Income-tax Act , more particularly, Section 9(1)(vi) to
examine whether the receipt by the assessee on account of domain
registration fee can be termed as royalty. Section 9(1)(vi) of the
Income-tax Act reads as under :- "9. (1) The following incomes shall be deemed to
 accrue or arise in India :- means consideration (including any lump sum
 consideration but excluding any consideration which would
 be the income of the recipient chargeable under the head
 "Capital gains") for - (i) the transfer of all or any rights (including the
 granting of a licence) in respect of a patent, invention,
 13 ITA-1878/Del/2017

 model, design, secret formula or process or trade mark or
 similar property; (ii) the imparting of any information concerning the
 working of, or the use of, a patent, invention, model,
 design, secret formula or process or trade mark or similar
 property; (iii) the use of any patent, invention, model, design,
 secret formula or process or trade mark or similar
 property; (iv) the imparting of any information concerning
 technical, industrial, commercial or scientific knowledge,
 experience or skill; [(iva) the use or right to use any industrial, commercial or
 scientific equipment but not including the amounts
 referred to in section 44BB ;] (v) the transfer of all or any rights (including the
 granting of a licence) in respect of any copyright, literary,
 artistic or scientific work including films or video tapes for
 use in connection with television or tapes for use in
 connection with radio broadcasting, but not including
 consideration for the sale, distribution or exhibition of
 cinematographic films; or (vi) the rendering of any services in connection with the
 activities referred to in sub-clauses (i) to [(iv), (iva) and] (v)." 10. The contention of the Revenue is that the domain name is an
intangible asset which is similar to trademark. The assessee is
rendering services in connection with such domain name registration
and therefore, the charges received by the assessee clearly fall within
the definition of royalty as provided in Section 9(1)(vi) of the Income-
tax Act. We find that Hon'ble Apex Court has considered the similar
aspect in the case of Satyam Infoway Ltd. (supra). The question before
Hon'ble Apex Court was whether internet domain names are subject to
the legal norms applicable to other intellectual properties such as
trademarks. Hon'ble Apex Court decided the issue in favour of the
assessee. The relevant observation of their Lordships reads as under :- This may occur in e-commerce with its rapid progress and
 instant (and theoretically limitless) accessibility to users
 and potential customers and particularly so in areas of
 specific overlap. Ordinary consumers/users seeking to
 locate the functions available under one domain name may
 be confused if they accidentally arrived at a different but
 similar web site which offers no such services. Such users
 could well conclude that the first domain name owner had
 mis-represented its goods or services through its
 promotional activities and the first domain owner would
 thereby lose their custom. It is apparent therefore that a
 domain name may have all the characteristics of a
 trademark and could found an action for passing off. Over the last few years the increased user of the internet
 has led to a proliferation of disputes resulting in litigation
 before different High Courts in this country. The Courts
 have consistently applied the law relating to passing off to
 domain name disputes. Some disputes were between the
 trademark holders and domain name owners. Some were
 between domain name owners themselves. These
 decisions namely Rediff Communication Ltd. v. Cyberbooth
 and Anr. , AIR (2000) Bombay 27, Yahoo Inc. v. Akash Arora ,
 (1999) PTC 19 201, Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. v. Manu
 Kosuri, (2001) PTC 859 (Del.), Tata Sons Ltd. v. Manu
 Kosuri, (2001) PTC 432 (Del. ), Acqua Minerals Ltd. v.
 Pramod Borse & Anr. , (2001) PTC 619 (Del.), and Info Edge
 (India) Pvt.Ltd. & Anr. V. Shailesh Gupta & Anr. , (2002) 24
 PTC 355 (Del.) correctly reflect the law as enunciated by
 us. No decision of any court in India has been shown to us
 which has taken a contrary view. The question formulated
 at the outset is therefore answered in the affirmative and
 the submission of the respondent is rejected." (emphasis by underlining supplied by us) 11. That Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Tata Sons
Limited (supra) has also examined the identical question and held as
under :- was injuncted as it was held deceptively similar to the
plaintiff's website "www.rediff.com". In the above
decision , the Court held that the Internet domain names
are of importance and can be a valuable corporate asset
and such domain name is more than an Internet address
and is entitled to protection equal to a trade mark. It was
held that with the advancement and progress in
technology the services rendered by an Internet site have
also to be recognized and accepted and are being given
protection from passing off. 9. In view of the above decisions, I am satisfied that it is
now settled law that with the advent of modern technology
particularly that relating to cyberspace, domain names or
Internet sites are entitled to protection as a trade mark
because they are more than a mere address. The
 16 ITA-1878/Del/2017

 rendering of Internet services is also entitled to protection
 in the same way as goods and services are, and trade
 mark law applies to activities on Internet." (emphasis by underlining supplied by us) 12. Learned counsel for the assessee has also relied upon the
decision of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Asia Satellite
Telecommunications Co.Ltd. (supra). However, we find that the facts in that case were altogether different. In the said case, the assessee
company carried on the business of private satellite communications
and broadcasting facilities. During the relevant assessment year, it
was the lessee of a satellite, called Asia-Sat 1 and was the owner of a
satellite, called Asia Sat 2. Those satellites were launched by the
assessee and were placed in a geostationary orbit in the orbital slots.
Those satellites neither used the Indian orbital slots nor were they
positioned over Indian airspace. However, the footprint area (the area
of earth's surface over which a signal is relayed from satellite) of those
satellites covered the territory of India. The assessee entered into an
agreement with TV channels, communication companies or other
companies who desired to utilize the transponder capacity available on
its satellite to relay their signals. The customers had their own
relaying facilities, which were not situated in India. From those
facilities, the signals were beamed into space where they were
received by a transponder located in the assessee's satellite. The role
of the assessee in this cycle was that of receiving the signals,
amplifying them and after changing frequency relaying them over the
entire footprint area. For that service, the TV channels made
payments to the assessee. The question before the Hon'ble High Court
was whether such payments can be said to be royalty chargeable to
tax in India. Hon'ble High Court answered the question in the
negative. However, the facts in the assessee's case are clearly
different. In the case under appeal before us, the issue is whether the
fees received by the assessee for rendering services for domain
registration can be said to be royalty. Therefore, in our opinion, the
 17 ITA-1878/Del/2017

above decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court relied upon by the learned
counsel for the assessee would have no application. The learned
counsel has also relied upon the decision of Authority for Advance
Rulings in the case of Dell International Services (India) Private Limited (supra). In that case also, the issue before the Authority for Advance
Rulings was whether the payment for providing communication
through telecom bandwidth can be termed as royalty within the
meaning of Section 9(1)(vi) of the Income-tax Act. Thus, the facts in the above case were also different than the facts under appeal before
us. On the other hand, the issue before Hon'ble Apex Court in the case
of Satyam Infoway Ltd. (supra), Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the
case of Tata Sons Limited (supra) and Hon'ble Bombay High Court in
the case of Rediff Communications Ltd. - AIR 2000 Bombay 27 was
whether the domain names can be considered as intellectual
properties such as trademark. Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Satyam Infoway Ltd. (supra) has held that the domain name is a
valuable commercial right and it has all the characteristics of a
trademark and accordingly, it was held that the domain names are
subject to legal norms applicable to trademark. Hon'ble Bombay High
Court in the case of Rediff Communications Ltd. (supra) held that
domain names are of importance and can be a valuable corporate
asset and such domain name is more than an internet address and is
entitled to protection equal to a trademark. Hon'ble Jurisdictional High
Court in the case of Tata Sons Limited (supra) held that domain names
are entitled to protection as a trademark because they are more than
an address. Respectfully following the above decisions of Hon'ble
Apex Court, Hon'ble Bombay High Court and Hon'ble Jurisdictional High
Court, we hold that the rendering of services for domain registration is
rendering of services in connection with the use of an intangible
property which is similar to trademark. Therefore, the charges
received by the assessee for services rendered in respect of domain
name is royalty within the meaning of Clause (vi) read with Clause (iii)
 18 ITA-1878/Del/2017

of Explanation 2 to Section 9(1) of Income-tax Act. In view of the
above, we uphold the orders of the lower authorities on this point and
reject ground No.2 of the assessee's appeal. 13. Ground Nos.3 & 4 of the assessee's appeal, which read as under,
were not pressed by the assessee at the time of hearing :- 14. At the time of hearing, the learned counsel stated that the
assessee itself has offered the income from web hosting services as
royalty. The Assessing Officer has assessed the same as fees for
technical services which is upheld by the DRP. He stated that since the
rate of tax for royalty as well as for FTS is the same, the assessee
would not like to contest ground Nos.3 & 4 because so far actual tax
liability is concerned, these grounds are only academic. In view of the
above, ground Nos.3 & 4 of the assessee's appeal are rejected being
not pressed. 15. Ground No.5 is against initiation of penalty proceedings u/s
271(1)(c) of the Act. This ground is premature at this stage and
accordingly, rejected as such. 16. Ground No.6 relating to charging of interest u/s 234A , 234B and 234C is admitted to be consequential and since no relief is allowed on
 19 ITA-1878/Del/2017

any other point in this appeal, accordingly, there would be no variation
in the quantum of interest. Thus, ground No.6 is also rejected. 17. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is dismissed. Decision pronounced in the open Court on 03.04.2018. Hosting Services Pvt.Ltd., Unit 003, Tower 4A,
 DLF Corporate Park, M.G.
 M.G. Road, Gurgaon - 122 002. 2. Respondent : Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax,
 Circle- Circle-1(3)(1), International Taxation, New Delhi. 3. CIT 4. CIT(A) 5. DR, ITAT

 Assistant Registrar