% 24.01.2024

 I.A. 1823/2024 (seeking exemption from filing certified/ clearer/ proper/
 translated copies of documents with proper margins) 1. Exemption is granted, subject to all just exceptions. 2. The Plaintiff shall file legible and clearer copies of exempted
 documents, compliant with practice rules, before the next date of hearing. 3. Accordingly, the application stands disposed of. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 23:20:19
 I.A. 1826/2024 (exemption from serving D-1) 4. The Plaintiff alleges that Defendant No. 1 is perpetrating fraud on the
 general public by creating a false association with the Plaintiff, resulting in
 grave financial losses to the public. Considering the nature of controversy
 involved in the present suit as well as the peculiar facts and circumstances of
 the case, exemption from effecting advance service on Defendant No. 1 is
 allowed. 5. Application is disposed of. I.A. 1825/2024 (seeking leave to file additional documents) 6. This is an application seeking leave to file additional documents under
 the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 . 7. Plaintiffs, if they wish to file additional documents at a later stage,
 shall do so strictly as per the provisions of the said Act. 8. Accordingly, the application stands disposed of.
 I.A. 1827/2024 (exemption from filing apostilled documents) 9. Exemption is granted, subject to all just exceptions. 10. The Plaintiff shall file the exempted documents, compliant with
 practice rules, before the next date of hearing. 11. Application is disposed of. I.A. 1824/2024 (exemption from issuing notice to D-5 & D-6) 12. Issue notice to Defendants No. 5 and 6 upon filing of process fee, by
 all permissible modes, returnable on 31st May, 2024. 13. Reply, if any, be filed within four weeks from the date of service.
 Rejoinder thereto, if any, be filed within two weeks thereafter. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 23:20:19
 CS(COMM) 71/2024 14. Let the plaint be registered as a suit. 15. Issue summons. Mr. Piyush Beriwal, counsel, accepts summons on
 behalf of Defendants No. 5 and 6. Ms. Anushka Sharda, counsel, accepts
 summons on behalf of Defendant No. 4. Mr. Neel Mason, counsel, accepts
 summons on behalf of Defendant No. 8. They confirm the receipt of the
 paper-book and waive the right to formal service of summons. Written
 statement(s) on behalf of the said Defendants shall be filed within thirty
 days from today. 16. Upon filing of process fee, issue summons to the remaining
 Defendants by all permissible modes. Summons shall state that the written
 statement(s) shall be filed by the Defendants within thirty days from the date
 of receipt of summons. Along with the written statement(s), the Defendants
 shall also file affidavit(s) of admission/denial of the documents of the
 Plaintiff, without which the written statement(s) shall not be taken on record. 17. Liberty is given to the Plaintiff to file replication(s) within fifteen
 days of the receipt of the written statement(s). Along with the replication(s),
 if any, filed by the Plaintiff, affidavit(s) of admission/denial of documents of
 the Defendants, be filed by the Plaintiff, without which the replication(s)
 shall not be taken on record. If any of the parties wish to seek inspection of
 any documents, the same shall be sought and given within the above
 timelines. 18. List before the Joint Registrar for marking of exhibits on 22nd March,
 2024. It is made clear that any party unjustifiably denying documents would
 be liable to be burdened with costs. 19. List before Court for framing of issues thereafter. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 23:20:19
 I.A. 1822/2024 (seeking ad-interim injunction) 20. The present suit seeks to permanently restrain passing off of
 Plaintiffs' trademarks "PEAK XV", "PEAK XV PARTNERS",

 " ", " " and " " by Defendant No. 1, who
 is unauthorizedly operating a fraudulent online investment and trading
 portal, under the mark "PAK XV". 21. Mr. Saikrihsna Rajagopal, counsel for Plaintiffs, presented the
 following facts: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 23:20:19
 fintech, healthtech, climatetech etc., in India under the "PEAK XV" marks.
 21.2. Since their rebranding in June 2023, the Plaintiffs have employed
 significant resources in promoting and advertising their brand/ mark "PEAK
 XV PARTNERS" to establish it as a distinctive mark associated with high
 quality. They have been regularly featured in Indian print and digital media,
 which is indicative of Plaintiffs' goodwill and reputation in the Indian
 market. Plaintiff No. 1 has also received various accolades for their
 operations in the Indian market. The Senior Management of the Plaintiffs
 are widely recognized in the concerned field. 21.3. The mark "PEAK XV" is inspired from the prevalent moniker given
 to the Mount Everest in the 1850s. This moniker, to the Plaintiffs and their
 founders, signifies relentless pursuit of greatness despite challenges along
 the way. 21.4. Plaintiffs also operate a website under the name "www.peakxv.com",
 wherefrom a user can gather information about their business operations,
 their history, clients, achievements, their employees/ directors, informative
 articles/ blogs etc. The said website prominently displays Plaintiffs'

 trademarks "PEAK XV PARTNERS", " ", " " trademarks. In fact, in the sections providing an introduction/ background to
 impugned website and mobile application, one of the Plaintiffs' videos titled
 'Peak XV We Believe', which is a video about the Plaintiffs' vision and
 objectives and is uploaded on their website, has been unauthorizedly
 reproduced by Defendant No. 1 with a view to misrepresent an association
 with the Plaintiffs. Similarly, the 'About Us' section of the Plaintiffs'
 website has also been imitated by Defendant No. 1. In an investment option 1 Particulars of the trademark applications are mentioned in paragraph No. 19 of the plaint. Hereinafter, "impugned website" and "impugned mobile application", respectively. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 23:20:19
 called 'Pakxv-VCS: 102', Defendant No. 1 claims that a prospective
 investor would earn an income of Rs. 19,900/- upon investing of Rs. 1000/-
 with a daily income of Rs. 420/- for a period of 45 days. The users can make
 payments for said investments through various modes, including Google Pay
 and PayTM. The UPI IDs associated with Defendant No. 1's Google Pay
 and PayTM accounts are mentioned in Document-C annexed with the plaint
 and are registered with Defendant No. 7-bank. 21.7. The impugned website also offers a customer service option. Plaintiff
 No. 1's representative, upon selecting this option was provided with four
 options of WhatsApp Customer Service, WhatsApp Group, Telegram
 Group, and Telegram Customer Service. Upon selecting each of these
 options, the representative was redirected to WhatsApp and Telegram

 groups titled "Peak XV 1026" and "Peak XV", respectively. The
 WhatsApp profiles of the group admins of the WhatsApp group titled "Peak

 XV 1026" use the names and images of Plaintiff No. 1's Managing
 Directors - Mr. Shailendra Singh and Mr. Rajan Anandan, without
 permission. Mr. Shailendra Singh and Mr. Rajan Anandan are persons of
 immense repute and are synonymous with the start-up ecosystem in India.
 Mr. Shailendra Singh has been associated with the operations of Plaintiff
 No. 1 in India for over seventeen years and is inextricably linked to the
 PEAK XV PARTNERS brand. Mr. Rajan Anandan is an industry veteran
 who now leads 'Surge', India's pre-eminent start-up accelerator program
 conducted by Plaintiff No. 1. 21.8. Plaintiff No. 1 also issued legal notices on 08th December, 2023 to
 WhatsApp and Telegram, calling upon them to inter alia takedown the CS(COMM) 71/2024 Page 7 of 19 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 23:20:19
 groups "Peak XV 1026" and "Peak XV" as well as to remove the phone
 numbers/ usernames of the operators of aforesaid groups on their respective
 platforms. On 30th December, 2023, Telegram group "Peak XV" was taken
 down and a confirmation was also provided by the Grievance Officer of
 Telegram. WhatsApp responded on 09th January, 2024, stating that they had
 reviewed the complaint and taken appropriate action as per their policies.
 21.9. Several videos have been uploaded on the YouTube platform openly
 promoting and advertising the impugned mobile application.
 21.10.The impugned activities of Defendant No. 1 are not only causing
 harm to Plaintiffs' business, goodwill and reputation in India, but are also
 defrauding the general public. On a complaint against one of Plaintiff No.
 1's senior employees, Mr. Chinmaya Golecha, whom the perpetrators have
 impersonated on the WhatsApp group, the Wakad Police Station in Pune,
 Maharashtra, has registered an FIR. The victim has claimed that he has lost
 Rs. 2,50,00,000 to Defendant No. 1's online scam, which was
 misrepresented as being affiliated with the Plaintiffs. 22. The Court has considered the afore-noted submissions. A comparison
 of the Plaintiffs' website with the impugned website/ mobile application is
 follows: 23. Extracts of the services/ investment schemes offered by Defendant
 No. 1 to the users are reproduced below: 24. The Plaintiffs had also released a public statement on various social
 media platforms, clarifying that the impugned website and mobile
 application do not emanate from them, and cautioning the public from
 investing in such scams. Several disgruntled consumers voiced their
 complaints by commenting on the said posts, claiming that they had suffered
 losses running over 30 lakhs due to Defendant No. 1's fraudulent activities. 25. The afore-noted screenshots and consumer accounts indicate that
 Defendant No. 1 is taking aid of the Plaintiffs' standing in the market to
 induce consumers into investing substantial amounts in to their scheme.
 Unwary consumers are being drawn to impugned website and mobile
 application using the Plaintiffs' "PEAK XV" trademarks, in an attempt to
 create a sense of association, when none exists. By impersonating Plaintiffs'

 personnel, the operators/ group admins of "Peak XV 1026" and "Peak
 XV" groups are attempting to give a semblance of legitimacy to the
 impugned actions and misleading the consumers to the impugned website
 and mobile application for trading/ investing in the given options. Defendant
 No. 1 is prima facie passing off their business as that of the Plaintiffs'. The
 similarity between the rival marks "PEAK XV" and "PAK XV" and the
 design of the impugned website and mobile application further accentuate
 the likelihood of confusion. 26. In view of the foregoing, the Court is convinced that Plaintiffs have
 demonstrated a prima facie case in their favour and in case an ex-parte ad-
 interim injunction is not granted, they would suffer an irreparable loss.
 Balance of convenience also lies in favour of Plaintiffs, and against
 Defendant No. 1. Accordingly, the following directions are issued: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 23:20:20
 their behalf, is restrained from passing off their business as that of the
 Plaintiffs, by using the trade names/ marks "PEAK XV PARTNERS",

 " ", " " and " ", in any manner, including
 for claiming an association/ affiliation with the Plaintiffs and their related
 entities and employees. 26.2. Defendant No. 2, Alibaba Cloud Computing (Beijing) Co. Ltd., is
 directed to suspend/ block access to the impugned website
 "https://pak.xv.ioyppp.com/" during the pendency of the suit. They shall
 also maintain status quo as to the ownership of the aforesaid website/
 domain name. Further, Defendant No. 2 is directed to file with the Court the
 complete details concerning the name, contact details, mode of payment, and
 IP address used by the registrants of the impugned website, in a sealed
 cover. 26.3. Defendant No. 3, Meta Platforms Inc., is directed to delete the
 WhatsApp groups and remove/ block access to the WhatsApp accounts of
 the mobile numbers, as mentioned in Document-A annexed to the plaint.
 They shall, within four weeks from today, file in a sealed cover, the IP
 addresses from which the WhatsApp accounts of the mobile numbers
 mentioned in Document-A to the plaint, are operated.
 26.4. Defendant No. 4, Telegram FZ-LLC, is directed to delete the
 Telegram channels/ groups mentioned in Document-B annexed to the plaint.
 They shall, within four weeks from today, file in a sealed cover, the IP
 addresses from which the Telegram accounts of the usernames mentioned in
 Document-B to the plaint, are operated. In the event further groups/ channels
 resembling the nature of the "Peak XV" group surface on Telegram, CS(COMM) 71/2024 Page 17 of 19 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 23:20:20
 Plaintiffs are at liberty to share the concerned URLs with Defendant No. 4,
 who shall thereafter remove/ block access thereto, in accordance with law.
 26.5. Defendant No. 5 - Ministry of Electronics and Information
 Technology, Union of India, and Defendant No. 6 - Department of
 Telecommunications, Ministry of Communications, Union of India, shall
 issue appropriate notifications/ directions to all telecom and Internet Service
 Providers, Domain Name Registrars in India to permanently block/ delete/
 remove access to all the telephone numbers, websites, domain names,
 accounts on social media and messaging platforms etc., which are the
 subject matter of the present suit. 26.6. Defendant No. 7, IndusInd Bank Limited, shall temporarily suspend
 and disable the UPI IDs mentioned in Document-C annexed with the plaint.
 They shall also disclose the details of holders of bank accounts associated
 with said UPI IDs. KYC documents of such persons shall be filed in a sealed
 cover before the Court within a period of four weeks from today.
 26.7. Defendant No. 8, Google LLC, is directed to remove/ block access to
 videos, URLs of which are identified in Document-D annexed with the
 plaint. They shall further disclose the complete details, including the IP
 addresses, Basic Subscriber Information, bank account details etc., of
 persons who have uploaded the said videos, as are available with Defendant
 No. 8. The same shall be filed in a sealed cover within four weeks from
 today. 26.8. Defendant No. 9, Bharti Airtel Ltd., shall suspend and disable the
 mobile number +91-8271422399 and disclose the details of the person in
 whose name the said number is registered. KYC documents of such person
 shall be filed in a sealed cover before the Court within a period of four CS(COMM) 71/2024 Page 18 of 19 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 23:20:20
 weeks from today. 27. Compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure ,
 1908 be done within five days from today. 28. Issue notice. Reply, if any, be filed within four weeks from today.
 Rejoinder thereto, if any, be filed within three weeks thereafter. 29. List on 31st May, 2024. SANJEEV NARULA, J
 JANUARY 24, 2024
 nk CS(COMM) 71/2024 Page 19 of 19 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 23:20:20