Present petition has been filed under Section 482 of the

Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short 'BNSS') on behalf of

the petitioner seeking grant of anticipatory/pre
 anticipatory/pre-arrest bail, in case FIR No.72 72 dated 31.12.2024,
 31.12.2024 registered under Section 318(4) of the Bharatiya Nyaya

Sanhita, 2023 (for short 'BNS') (Section 61(2)of the BNS added later on)
 on),, at

Police
 ice Station Cyber Crime, Rewari. 2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that complainant, namely

Suresh Chander had moved a written complaint to the effect that on

26.12.2024, while he was at home, he came across a Facebook

 1 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 24-02-2026 03:21:13 ::: 2 CRM- CRM-M-8238-
 8238-2026

advertisement offering a part-time job. Using the contact number provided in

the advertisement, he connected through Telegram, where he was assigned

certain tasks and initially paid a small amount of money. Subsequently, he

was asked to invest Rs.4,500/- with an assurance that he would receive

Rs.6,300/- in return. However, when he attempted to withdraw the promised

amount, he was repeatedly asked to make additional payments on the pretext

of system errors and the need for further recharges. He was told that only

after making additional investments would he be able to recover his money.

Despite complying with these demands, he did not receive any payment.

Instead, the fraudsters are now demanding Rs.3,00,000/- from him. The

complainant requested to take legal action against the accused and,

accordingly, FIR in question was registered. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has iterated that the petitioner

has been falsely implicated into the FIR in question. Learned counsel has

further iterated that the petitioner was not named in the FIR and there is not

even an iota of evidence available with the prosecution to show complicity

of the petitioner in the offence in question and/ or not even any allegation

has been leveled against the petitioner. Learned counsel has iterated that the

petitioner has been implicated on the basis of disclosure of co-accused.

Learned counsel has further iterated that main accused, namely, Asim

Afaque and Raj Gupta have already been afforded concession of regular bail

by the Court below. Learned counsel has further argued that even the matter

has been settled/ compromised between the petitioner and the complainant

 2 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 24-02-2026 03:21:14 ::: 3 CRM- CRM-M-8238-
 8238-2026

and, in this regard, an affidavit dated 27.01.2026 (Annexure P-2) of the

complainant, is appended with the petition.

3.1. Learned counsel has further submitted that there is no need for

custodial interrogation of the petitioner as nothing incriminating is to be

recovered from him. Moreover, there is no likelihood of the petitioner

absconding from the process of justice or tampering with the prosecution

evidence, in case, he is enlarged on pre-arrest bail. On strength of these

submissions, the grant of anticipatory bail is entreated for. 4. Per contra, learned State counsel has opposed the grant of

anticipatory bail to the petitioner by arguing that the offence committed by

the petitioner is serious in nature. Learned State counsel has argued that, in

case, the petitioner is released on bail, there is all likelihood that he may

abscond from the process of justice as also intimidate/ interfere with the

prosecution evidence/ witnesses. According to learned State counsel, the

petitioner along with his co-accused has defrauded/ cheated the complainant

on the pretext of providing with some part-time job. The investigating

agency is still in the process of gathering evidence for which custodial

interrogation of the petitioner is necessary. Considering the seriousness of

the allegations and the stage of investigation dismissal of the instant petition

is prayed for. 5. On the other hand, learned counsel for the complainant appears

and submits that now the matter has been amicably settled between the

parties as the complainant has received an amount of Rs.50,000/- from the

 3 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 24-02-2026 03:21:14 ::: 4 CRM- CRM-M-8238-
 8238-2026

petitioner, in cash, and the complainant has no objection, in case, the

petitioner is afforded concession of regular bail. 6. I have heard the learned counsel for the rival parties and have

gone through the available record of the case. 7. As per the case put forth in the FIR in question as also perusal

of the impugned order show that the accused persons are alleged to have

indulged in a well-planned cyber fraud by luring the complainant through a

false online advertisement and inducing him to part with his hard-earned

money on the pretext of providing a part-time job. Indubitably, serious

allegations have been levelled against the petitioner.

7.1. Vide order dated 12.02.2026 passed by the co-ordinate Bench

of this Court, learned counsel for the petitioner had sought time to implead

the complainant as party-respondent to the petition in hand given the matter

stated to have been amicably resolved between the parties.

7.2. Even if it be assumed that a settlement has been arrived at

between the petitioner-accused and the FIR-complainant, the same cannot be

of any avail to the petitioner-accused. This Court had an occasion to deal

with the offence(s) related to cyber fraud, in a case titled as CRM- CRM-M-54453-
 54453-

2025 - Badri Mandal & others versus State of Haryana and another another, decided

on 12.11.2025,
 12.11.2025 whereby quashing of the FIR , in that case , was sought on the

basis of compromise having been effected between the parties therein. The

relevant of the aforesaid reads thus: 13. As a sequitur of the above rumination, the following
 postulates emerge: CRM-M-8238-
 8238-2026

poses a significant threat, as it systematically erodes public confidence in

digital financial transaction platforms. Such erosion runs counter to the

aspirations of an advanced and digitally empowered "Digital Bharat" and,

thus, warrants a heightened degree of judicial circumspection. These

offenses are characterized by their capacity to aggrieve a multitude of

victims simultaneously, often with a single act of commission. The

deleterious consequences of cybercrimes transcend individual boundaries,

imperiling numerous unsuspecting citizens. The gravity of such

transgressions cannot, therefore, be understated. They not only jeopardize

the financial security and trust reposed by individuals in financial payment

gateways and platforms, but also inherently expose the broader populace to

analogous threats. Indeed, cybercrime in our nation operates akin to a silent

virus -- insidious, disruptive, and exacting a toll on society that extends far

beyond mere pecuniary loss, encompassing the bedrock of trust, security,

and national progress. 8.1. Given the inherent nature and profound gravity of such offenses

and their wide-ranging cascading effects on both society and financial

institutions, this Court finds itself disinclined to grant the relief of

anticipatory bail as prayed for. To do otherwise would be to turn a Nelson's

eye to the profound and far-reaching detrimental impact of these digital

depredations. 9. Moreover, no cause nay plausible cause has been shown, at this

stage, from which it can be deciphered that the petitioner has been falsely

implicated into the present FIR. It goes without saying that in the instant

 7 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 24-02-2026 03:21:14 ::: 8 CRM- CRM-M-8238-
 8238-2026

case, the allegations against the petitioner are serious in nature. The

investigation is at nascent stage. It is further befitting to mention here that

while considering a plea for grant of anticipatory bail, the Court has to

equilibrate between safeguarding individual rights and protecting societal

interests. The Court ought to reckon with the magnitude and nature of the

offence; the role attributed to the accused; the need for fair and free

investigation as also the deeper and wide impact of such alleged iniquities

on the society. At this stage, there is no material on record to hold that prima

facie case is not made out against the petitioner. The material which has

come on record and preliminary investigation, appear to be established a

reasonable basis for the accusations. Thus, it is not appropriate to grant

anticipatory bail to the petitioner, as it would necessarily cause impediment

in effective investigation. In State v. Anil Sharma , (1997) 7 SCC 187 : 1997

SCC (Cri) 1039, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: (SCC p. 189,

para 6)

 "6. We find force in the submission of CBI that custodial interrogation
 is qualitatively more elicitation-oriented than questioning a suspect who is
 well-ensconced with a favourable order under Section 438 of the Code. In a
 case like this, effective interrogation of a suspected person is of tremendous
 advantage in disinterring many useful informations and also materials which
 would have been concealed. Success in such interrogation would elude if the
 suspected person knows that he is well protected and insulated by a pre-arrest
 bail order during the time he is interrogated. Very often interrogation in such
 a condition would reduce to a mere ritual. The argument that the custodial
 interrogation is fraught with the danger of the person being subjected to third-
 degree methods need not be countenanced, for, such an argument can be
 advanced by all accused in all criminal cases. The Court has to presume that
 responsible police officers would conduct themselves in a responsible manner
 and that those entrusted with the task of disinterring offences would not
 conduct themselves as offenders." 10. In view of the gravity of the allegations, nature of the offence

and the requirement of custodial interrogation for a fair and thorough

 8 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 24-02-2026 03:21:14 ::: 9 CRM- CRM-M-8238-
 8238-2026

investigation, this Court is of the considered opinion that the petitioner does

not deserve the concession of anticipatory bail in the factual milieu of the

case in hand. The petition is, thus, devoid of merits and is hereby dismissed. dismissed 11. Nothing said hereinabove shall be deemed to be an expression

of opinion upon merits of the case/investigation. 12. Pending application(s), if any, shall also stand disposed off. (SUMEET GOEL)
 GOEL)
 JUDGE
February 23,
 23, 2026
mahavir

Whether speaking/reasoned: Yes/No

Whether reportable: Yes/No

 9 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 24-02-2026 03:21:14 :::