(Per Hon'ble Sri Justice Rakesh Kumar)

 The petitioner, whose shoulder is heavily burdened with the

responsibility of mainly protecting the right of a citizen guaranteed under

Part III of the Constitution of India, is itself before this Court with inwardly pain

due to indirect/direct attack on it by some of malefactors. Even some

occupying high positions and Constitutional posts are not restraining themselves

in committing the same mistake. Since the month of April, 2020, this Court has

noticed that a new trend has developed in the State of Andhra Pradesh to

abuse the High Court and its Judges on different sites of social media and even

in the interviews given to electronic media. It is well-known that Judges are

not having any platform to come and say about their integrity, sincerity etc.,

even in a case they are otherwise abused or insulted. It is true that under the

provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 , in a case of willful

disobedience/insult to the Court, one can be dealt with; but the fact remains

that penal provisions under the Contempt of Courts Act are though enough to

deter persons, who have some faith in the system; but not enough to deter

such malefactors in making unwarranted allegations against the Judiciary or

Judges. The person occupying high posts are indulging in waging war against

the judicial system in the State of Andhra Pradesh oblivious of the fact that

even their entity is existed since there is democratic system in our country. In

a democratic State if such war is initiated against the judicial system by

persons holding high positions, certainly it will create unnecessary doubt in the

mind of citizen against the judicial system, which may cripple entire system. It

need not to be elaborated that in the State of Andhra Pradesh, in general,

people are well disciplined and law abiding. They have got faith in the system. 2 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 However, it appears that the petitioner is being attacked by some corner with

some oblique motive. 2. The petitioner, i.e., High Court of Andhra Pradesh, at Amaravati, taking

decision on administrative side, has preferred to invoke the writ jurisdiction

under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, primarily with a view to protect

its entity from the attack of some of antisocial elements in our State. 3. The present writ petition was filed with a prayer for issuance of writ of

an appropriate writ or order or direction, particularly, writ in the nature of

writ of Mandamus: 4 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 Medium in schools. Almost, in the same context, again on 17.04.2020, a

written report was submitted under the signature of the Registrar General to

the Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crimes, CID, disclosing cognizable offences

against the accused persons on an allegation of posting on social media. Two

FIRs were lodged; one on 16.04.2020 itself; and second on 18.04.2020.

Subsequently, again there were number of posts on social media against the

Judges of the High Court, Hon'ble Supreme Court and including High Court

itself. Again immediately thereafter, one another written report was filed by

the Registrar General of the High Court on 24.05.2020 addressed to the

Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crimes, CID. This time again, the Court and

the Judges were abused in view of some of the orders passed by this Court.

The written report is re-produced herein below: Sub: Complaint regarding abusive, life threatening and
 intimidating postings in Social Media against the Hon'ble
 Judges, fabricating material against the High Court and
 Hon'ble Judges and posting in Social Media to bring
 hatred, contempt, incite, disaffection and ill-will
 against the High Court and Hon'ble Judges - seeking
 expeditious registration of case and action as per law -
 Reg. ***

 I am to inform you that Registrar (Judicial) of the High Court has received
 various emails in the Official email account and mobile of Registrar (Judicial)
 with Videos and postings in the social networking media and the material reveal
 names of several persons including Mr.Nandigam Suresh, Mr. Amanchi Krishna
 Mohan, Mr. Metta Chandra Sekhar Rao, Mr. Kalanidhi Gopala Krishna,
 Mr. Kishore Reddy Darisa, Mr. Chandu Reddy, Mr. G.Sridhar Reddy, Mr. Jelagam
 Venkata Satyanarayana, Mr. Arjun Ganji, Mr. Sridhar Reddy Avuthu,
 Mr. Ramanjaneya Reddy, Mr. Satish Kumar, Mrs. Gowthumi K, Mr. Linga Reddy,
 Dr. Ravi Kumar, Mr. Samir Rathod, Mr.Seenu P, Mr. Ramesh Gunta,
 Mr. Chiranjeevi and others, in their interviews/speeches/postings attributed
 motives, caste and corrupt allegations to some of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 5 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 Judges, Hon'ble High Court and Hon'ble High Court Judges in delivering
orders/judgments including Suo Moto PIL 124 of 2020, WP(PIL) 110 of 2020,
WP(PIL) No.101 of 2020, WP(PIL) 177 of 2019, WP(PIL) 183 of 2019 and WP
No.8185 of 2020, they posted abusive, life threatening and intimidating postings
against the Hon'ble Judges in social media as furnished in the enclosures, they
also fabricated material with abusive, hatred and contemptuous contents and
to cause incitement, disaffection and ill-will against the Hon'ble High Court and
Hon'ble Judges. A video footage of Sakshi news reveal that Mr. Nandigam
Suresh in his live speech from YCP Office, Tadepalli, attributed motive to the
High Court that Mr. Chandrababu Naidu is managing the High Court, he also
stated that how Mr. Chandrababu Naidu came to know the verdict prior to half
an hour or 10 minutes of its pronouncement and he shall be enquired.
Mr. Chandu Reddy tweeted that "total how many judges are there in High
Court, all those will be cut into pieces" and also tweeted that "Everyone shall
be cut into pieces. All the Judges shall be kept in a room and a Corona Patient
shall be left with them." and Mr.Kishore Reddy Darisa in a facebook message
stated that "All the High Court Judges are Bastards, they are good for nothing
except for sleeping with their wives. Let them arrest me and order for CBI
enquiry", further, there are identical and other abusive and intimidating
messages on the social media. All these appear there is larger conspiracy
against the Hon'ble Judges. The contents in the Video Clippings/Postings also amount to contempt for
trying to scandalize and lower the image of the Hon'ble Court and Hon'ble
Judges. I submit that the Registrar General also lodged reports on 16-04-2020 and
17-04-2020 for posting abusive and intimidatory material against Hon'ble Sri
Justice M.Satyanarayana Murthy. I am directed, to request you to register a case as per law, investigate into
the matter, trace the culprits to punish them as per law, apprehend the
culprits, cause removal of the abusive and other intimidating/offensive postings
in the social media such as Twitter, Facebook, Youtube etc. and inform the full
particulars of Culprits and progress of the investigation at appropriate stages to
examine and proceed as per law including to examine for initiating contempt
proceedings as per law. I am herewith enclosing the Videos and Clippings/Postings along with
emails, which were received by the Registry. Yours Sincerely,
 Sd/
 Registrar General
Copy to: 6 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 5. Ön 22.05.2020, different Benches of this Court had passed different

orders in Suo Moto PIL 124 of 2020, WP(PIL) 110 of 2020, WP(PIL) No.101 of

2020, WP(PIL) 177 of 2019, WP(PIL) 183 of 2019 and WP No.8185 of 2020, which

were passed against the orders and actions of the State Government and its

functionaries. Immediately thereafter, the social media was flooded with

objectionable posts. Even the persons occupying high position went to the

media and gave interviews against the High Court and its Judges, that too,

from the party office belonging to a political party, which is in power.

Accordingly, this was the reason for filing written report/complaint by the

Registrar General for registering FIR. 6. In the present writ petition, earlier on notice, almost all the respondents

had entered appearance and on behalf of most of the private respondents,

which includes Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Whatsapp, Google, Youtube etc.,

interlocutory applications were filed for their deletion on some grounds. While

those petitions were pending, one another interlocutory application was filed

on behalf of the petitioner, which was numbered as I.A.No.20 of 2020. The

petitioner also sought for amendment of pleadings/averments raised in the

interlocutory application by incorporating paragraphs 8 (A) to 8(I), which are as

follows: 8B. It is submitted that the contents of the said complaint
 dated 24.05.2020 lodged by the then Registrar General, High
 Court of Andhra Pradesh in brief are as follows: 7 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 (i) Various emails were received on the official email
account and mobile of the Registrar regarding the postings
and videos in the social networking media and the material
revealed the names of several persons, in their interviews/
speeches/postings attributed motives, caste and corrupt
allegations to some of the Hon'ble Supreme Court Judges,
Hon'ble High Court and the Hon'ble High Court Judges in
delivering orders/judgments including in Suo Moto PIL 124 of
2020, WP(PIL) 110 of 2020, WP(PIL) 101 of 2020, WP(PIL) 177
of 2019, WP(PIL) 183 of 2019 and WP No.8185 of 2020, they
posted abusive, life threatening and intimidating postings
against the Hon'ble Judges in social media. (ii) They have further fabricated material with abusive,
hatred and contemptuous contents and to cause incitement,
disaffection and ill will against the Hon'ble Court and
Hon'ble Judges. (iii) A video footage of Sakshi news reveal that
Mr. Nandigama Suresh in his live speech from YSRCP Office,
Tadepalli, attributed motive to the High Court that
Mr. Chandrababu Naidu is managing the High Court, he also
stated that how Mr.Chandrababu Naidu came to know the
verdict prior to half an hour or 10 minutes of its
pronouncement and shall be enquired. (iv) One Mr.Chandu Reddy said that "Total how many
judges are there in High Court, all these will be cut into
pieces and also tweeted that "Everyone shall be cut into
pieces. All the Judges shall be kept in a room and a Corona
Patient shall be left with them." 8C. It is submitted that the 5th respondent after receipt of
the above complaint has registered Crime Nos.9, 10, 11, 12,
26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31 of 2020 on various dates. However,
no proper action as mandated under Code of Criminal
Procedure has been taken against the Accused till date by
the Respondent Nos.4 to 6. The inaction against those
miscreants who chose to attack the Judiciary and are
treating the Constitutional Institution as vulnerable and
defenseless. 8 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 8D. The writ petitioner reserves the right to file a
detailed rejoinder to the Counter Affidavits filed by the
Respondent Nos.4 to 6, but nevertheless, it is respectfully
submitted that the Respondent Nos.4 to 6 are absolutely
lackadaisical, casual and averse to act promptly and swiftly
against those social media users/posters/tweeters who are
taking pride in attacking the Judiciary and who are visible on
every day basis for the prosecution to take notice. It is
further submitted that a prominent politician issued a
statement that the social media users affiliated to his
political party will be protected; statements and support of
this nature seems to be embolden the social media users who
are taking fancy to launch scathing attack against the
Judiciary at personal level, which is causing severe distress
and insecure feeling & fear to the family members of the
Judiciary. 8E. It is submitted that causing further distress to the
Hon'ble High Court Judges and the Judiciary fraternity,
certain key personnel of the current dispensation of the
State of Andhra Pradesh, had passed deplorable and painful
comments on the functioning of the Hon'ble High Court of AP
and judgments delivered. Such comments from the key
personnel who are occupying posts of prominences,
authoritative and constitutional in nature, in the State of
A.P., targeting the Hon'ble Judges had severely affected the
reputation of Judiciary as an independent institution. The
relevant documents are filed for perusal. 8F. It is submitted that the above comments made were
widely published in the print, electronic and social media
and there which has seriously affected the independence,
sanctity and reverence of the Constitutional identity of this
Hon'ble Court. Such uncalled and unnecessary statements by
a person holding a constitutional post has tended support to
the people who were personally targeting the judges by
making abusive and threatening comments. 8G. It is submitted that to aggravate the prevailing attack
on the Hon'ble High Court and the Hon'ble Judges, Member
of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) and General Secretary of
Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party made comments on
19.09.2020 against the Judicial Officer, that too, paved
 9 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 during the course of dispensation of justice and which can be
 tested before an Appellate Court. Thus, it appears that a
 concerted effort has been made to malign the institution,
 having larger conspiracy. The police is also in their control,
 and are not taking adequate action as required. 8H. in fact, on the contrary, to elaborate further, it is
 respectfully submitted that whenever comments made
 against the current Government functionaries several cases
 have been registered even basing on the complaints of
 unrelated persons and the Police/Investigating Agencies
 promptly arrested such accused persons in some cases and
 the Investigating Agencies have been evincing interest in
 proceeding with only those matters. The details of some of
 the cases which are registered against the said persons are as
 follows: 10. 14.7.2020 153.A, 507, 205 IPC 14.7.2020 CM and TTD Chairman on Aruna Sastri
 Facebook
 Fake and defamatory posts in
 153 A, 505(2), 295-A Facebook and Whatsapp which Kanaparthi
 11 20.08.2020 IPC r/w 120-B IPC are against to M.P. Girija Srinivas
 G.V.L.Narasimha Rao

 8I. Thus, the Judiciary requires protection, and the following are
 the reasons that show the need of broader protection of the
 Judiciary against the unfair and unwarranted criticism from Media
 and Public review: 10. Learned Advocate General, though agreed for entrustment of

investigation to other investigating agency, has raised serious objection on the

submissions made by the learned counsel for the petitioner, particularly, to the

point where he had referred certain documents to show the statements made

by the Hon'ble Speaker, Hon'ble Deputy Chief Minister and Hon'ble Member of

Parliament (Rajya Sabha) on the ground that they were not arrayed as parties

in the writ petition nor those facts have been corroborated. He further
 12 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 submitted that there were many discrepancies in the translated version of the

documents referred hereinabove. 11. Be that as it may, it is clarified that this Court has not gone into the

merit of the case and has refrained to record any finding/observations against

either of the parties, which include private parties. 12. Sri S.Niranjan Reddy, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of

respondents 4 to 6/CID, had also consented for entrustment of the

investigation to any other independent investigating agency having more

resources and branches at different places. 13. Sri N.Ashwini Kumar, learned counsel for the petitioner, submitted that

the CID is taking an entirely different stand in cases related to attack made on

the High Court and it's Judges; and, in case of any such comment made against

the Government. By way of referring to paragraph 8H mentioned hereinabove,

he highlighted that in cases of offensive posts against the Government and

complaints filed by any one those were registered as FIR on the same date;

and, in some cases immediately accused persons were also arrested. But in

case of offensive posts against the Judiciary, respondents 4 to 6 (CID) are

casual and lackadaisical. He tried to persuade the Court that the aforesaid

conduct of the CID makes it clear that they are not proceeding with the

investigation in an impartial manner. 14. Sri N.Ashwini Kumar, learned counsel for the petitioner, has taken the

Court to running page Nos.28 and 33, i.e., copies of complaints, dated

16.04.2020, and 17.04.2020, under the signature of the Registrar General

addressed to the Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crimes-CID. He highlighted

that on the said complaints, two FIRs vide Crime No.16 of 2020 was registered

on 16.04.2020 under Sections 505(2) and 506 of IPC against three accused

persons, namely, Mr.Kondareddy Dhamireddy, Mr. Mani Annapureddy and
 13 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 Mr.Sudheer Pamula. Similarly, Crime No.17 of 2020 was registered on

18.04.2020 against four accused persons, namely, (i) Pattapu Adarsh; (ii) Mani

Annapureddy; (iii) Abhishek Reddy; and, (iv) Siva Reddy, under the same

provisions. He tried to persuade the Court that though on the complaint of the

Registrar General/informant, FIR was registered on 16.04.2020, and on

17.4.2020, his re-statement was recorded much belatedly on 01.05.2020. He

has also referred to paragraph 6 of the writ petition, which is quoted herein

below: 15. Sri N.Ashwini Kumar, learned counsel, has taken the Court to a

document, which is at running page no.46, i.e., letter, dated 13.05.2020, send

by the Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crimes, CID, to the Registrar General,

and tried to persuade the Court that by the said communication, it was

highlighted that the investigating official had sent notices to the Nodal Officers
 14 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 of the Facebook, Instragram, Twitter International Company to furnish

registration particulars of the Facebook accounts of the accused persons.

However, Facebook gave a reply stating that they require formal legal process

for any records that is issued from a court of competent jurisdiction and

complies with the Stored Communications Act, 18 U.S.C. Accordingly, it was

communicated in letter, dated 13.05.2020, that letters of request for Mutual

Legal Assistance are being prepared to comply with the demands made by

Facebook. He has placed the reply affidavit filed on 23.09.2020 on behalf of

respondent No.9. He has specifically referred to paragraphs (8) and (11) of the

affidavit filed on behalf of respondent No.9 duly sworn by Mr. Dhawal Gupta,

Scientist-E/Additional Director in the Cyber Laws and E-Security Division,

Ministry of Electronics and information Technology, Government of India. It

would be better to reproduce paragraphs (8) and (11) of the said affidavit,

which are as follows: 15 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 11. Submission of the Answering Respondent on the
 applicability of Section 69A to this case: designated for States/Union Territories) has to send the
 request for blocking the access of a computer resource. The
 Nodal Officer for the State of Andhra Pradesh is: (ii) Mr. Amanchi Krishna Mohan, former MLA of YSRCP; (iii) Mr. Metta Chandra

Sekhar Rao, learned Standing Counsel for A.P. State Legislative Assembly; (iv) Mr. Kalanidhi Gopala Krishna, Advocate; (v) Mr.Kishore Reddy Darisa; (vi) Mr. Chandra Reddy; (vii) Mr. G.Sridhar Reddy; (viii) Mr. Jelagam Venkata

Satyanarayana; (ix) Mr. Arjun Ganji; (x) Mr. Sridhar Reddy Avuthu; (xi) Mr. Ramanjaneya Reddy; (xii) Mr. Satish Kumar; (xiii) Mrs. Gowthumi K; (xiv) Mr. Linga Reddy; (xv) Dr. Ravi Kumar; (xvi) Mr. Samir Rathod;

(xvii) Mr. Seenu P; (xviii) Mr. Ramesh Gunta; and, (xix) Mr.Chiranjeevi. To the

reasons best known to respondent Nos.4 and 5, one FIR was lodged on

26.05.2020 vide Crime No.9 of 2020 incorporating the name of only one

accused in the 'accused' column of the FIR. Similarly, according to the learned

counsel for the petitioner, other nine FIRs were lodged on the basis of one

written report, dated 24.05.2020, filed by the Registrar General. However, the

respondent/CID selectively had arrayed only few persons whose names were

appearing in the written complaint, dated 24.05.2020, as accused in the FIR.

He tried to persuade the Court that from the very inception the CID started to

shield/save the accused persons who were influential, i.e., one Member of

Parliament, Member of Legislative Assembly and one Standing Counsel for A.P.

State Legislative Assembly and some other accused persons. An allegation was
 17 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 made that despite registration of altogether twelve FIRs, in none of the cases,

investigation proceeded in its right perspective. 17. Sri Ashwini Kumar, by way of referring to number of documents brought

on record through I.A.No.20 of 2020, which has been directed to be treated as

part of the writ petition, has argued that the attack on Judiciary is

continuously increasing with impunity. He has referred to some documents of

running page Nos.21 to 29 and Page No.43 of I.A.No.20 of 2020 relating to

certain news items and tried to persuade the Court that even the sitting

Hon'ble Speaker of Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly and the Hon'ble

Deputy Chief Minister have also not restrained themselves in making scathing

remarks against the Judiciary. He further, by way of referring to running page

No.40 of the petition, has argued that one Hon'ble Member of Rajya Sabha,

namely, Sri Vijayasai Reddy, has joined together in a move to make scathing

remarks against the High Court. 18. By way of referring to aforesaid facts, learned counsel for the petitioner

tried to persuade the Court that against the Judiciary, which is one of the main

pillars of the democracy, such scathing attack is being made with impunity,

which requires immediate intervention and thorough investigation; and, as

such, it was prayed to entrust the investigation into the aforesaid matter to an

independent investigating agency. He further submits that in view of the fact

that the attack has been made by the persons occupying high positions and

associated with the Government, there is no possibility of fair and independent

investigation at the hands of an agency under the control of the State

Government and requested to entrust the case to an independent and well

equipped investigating agency like the CBI. 19. Sri S.Niranjan Reddy, learned senior counsel, has vehemently opposed

the allegation made by the learned counsel for the petitioner. He, by way of

referring to the facts disclosed in the counter affidavit as well as additional
 18 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 counter affidavit, duly sworn by respondent No.5, highlighted that after receipt

of the complaint, CID has immediately registered the FIR; and, as per

procedure prescribed under the Code of Criminal Procedure as well as Cyber

Laws, they are proceeding with the investigation. According to Sri S. Niranjan

Reddy, learned senior counsel, the allegation of the petitioner that CID is hand

in glove with the accused persons is irrelevant, having no basis, and such

allegation has been made without any such appropriate pleading. However, at

the time of hearing, on being asked by the Court, considering the nature of the

allegations made against one of the pillars of democratic set up, i.e., Judiciary,

as to what would be the difficulty if the investigation into the matter is

entrusted to an agency, which has got more wider jurisdiction and having

branches in different States with more manpower and more equipped than the

present agency, which has got very limited resources, learned counsel for

respondents have shown no objection. This Court at the time of hearing had

made it clear that in view of facts and circumstances and for better and deep

investigation, this Court may not take any notice of allegations which were

made by the learned counsel for the petitioner. Being responsible officers of

the Court, Sri S.Niranjan Reddy, learned senior counsel, appearing on behalf of

respondent Nos.4 to 6, as well as Sri S.Sriram, learned Advocate General had

shown appreciable gesture and all the parties had agreed for entrusting the

investigation to an another investigating agency, well equipped and having

number of branches. Accordingly, without going into the merit of the case or

without recording any observations against either of the parties, we propose to

direct to entrust all the matters to an agency, namely, Central Bureau of

Investigation, which is fairly fit, having wider scope for investigation as agreed

by all the parties. 20. Accordingly, this Court directs to entrust all the FIRs, namely, Crime

Nos.16 of 2020; 17 of 2020; 26 of 2020; 27 of 2020; 28 of 2020; 29 of 2020; 30

of 2020; 31 of 2020; 9 of 2020; 10 of 2020; 11 of 2020; and, 12 of 2020 of Cyber
 19 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 Crimes-CID, Amaravati, to the Central Bureau of Investigation through its

Director. Investigation in all the aforesaid FIRs stands transferred to the

Central Bureau of Investigation. The CBI, through its Director, is required to

take up investigation in all the aforesaid FIRs forthwith and proceed with the

same in accordance with law. 21. The Registry is directed to handover the entire material including writ

petition, I.A.No.20 of 2020, with entire enclosures, which includes counter

affidavits and other relevant documents as certified to be true copies of them,

to the CBI as and when approached. It goes without saying that on examination

of materials available on record, if other materials disclose cognizable

offences, it would be necessary for the CBI to register more FIRs, investigate

and bring the same to its logical end. While conducting investigation, it would

be necessary to examine as to whether such attacks on Judiciary were made as

a result of larger conspiracy or not. If it is noticed that it was due to the result

of larger conspiracy, the CBI is required to take appropriate action against such

culprits irrespective of the post and position. It goes without saying that the

CBI immediately after taking up investigation may take steps so that all the

defamatory posts available on social media, i.e., private respondents, may

struck down and may also take steps to block such users in accordance with

law. The Registry is directed to forthwith communicate a copy of this order to

the Director, Central Bureau of Investigation, New Delhi. 22. The CBI is further directed to submit its report in sealed cover to this

Court within eight weeks from the date of receipt of a copy of this order. 23. The Government of Andhra Pradesh, through its Chief Secretary as well

as the Director General of Police, are directed to ensure full cooperation and

assistance and provide all logistic support, if asked by the CBI. 20 RK, J & JUD, J W.P.No.9166 of 2020 24. Put up the matter on 14.12.2020. ______________
 Rakesh Kumar, J

 ____________
 J. Uma Devi, J
Dt.12.10.2020
RAR