Heard Dr. K.N. Singh, learned Additional Solicitor
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(12) dt.13-01-2022 2/9 General of India assisted by Mr. Manoj Kumar Singh, learned

 C.G.C. for the Union of India, Mr. Kaushal Kumar Jha, learned

 Senior Counsel assisted by Mr. Amit Prakash, learned counsel

 for the Reserve Bank of India (for short "R.B.I.), Mr. Ajay,

 G.A.-5 assisted by Mr. Shailendra Kumar, learned APP for the

 State along with Senior Superintendent of Police, Muzaffarpur,

 Mr. Bhaskar Shankar and Ms. Prakritita Sharma, learned

 counsel for the Intervenor, Mr. Suresh Prasad Singh, learned

 counsel for the Punjab National Bank (for short "P.N.B.") with

 Mr. Sanjay Sinha, A.G.M. of the Punjab National Bank and Mr.

 Shailesh Thakur, Additional Director of Financial Intelligence

 Unit. The Superintendents of Police Nawada and Nalanda have

 also joined the proceeding virtually apart from other officials of

 the Reserve Bank of India pursuant to the last order of this

 Court. Punjab National Bank matter of Muzaffarpur

 With regard to siphoning off Rs. Five crores, the

 Senior Superintendent of Police, Muzaffarpur, has informed the

 Court about the stage of investigation as well as other issues in

 the case. At the very outset, the P.N.B. and R.B.I. officials

 have been asked about the refund of the amount to the various
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(12) dt.13-01-2022 3/9 account holders from whose accounts the money has been

 siphoned off. On this, the Bank officials have said that they are

 governed by the R.B.I. guidelines and they are conducting

 enquiry and after conclusion of the enquiry the amount shall be

 credited in the accounts of the account holders as per the R.B.I.

 guidelines. This Court is surprised at the stand of the P.N.B.

 and R.B.I. officials. It is an admitted position that the amount

 has not been withdrawn by the account holders but the amount

 has been siphoned off from the accounts in which prima facie a

 Bank employee is also found involved. When the involvement

 of the Bank employee has been found and he has been arrested,

 the Bank cannot say that it is not responsible for returning the

 amount. The P.N.B. is a nationalized Bank and citizens keep

 their hard earned money in the nationalized Banks like Punjab

 National Bank and State Bank of India with presumption that

 their money will be safe in those banks. The Banks are utilizing

 the money of various account holders for their own purpose and

 if because of their mistake, fault in their system/'App' then it is

 the Bank which is responsible to return the money to the

 account holders and it should be done forthwith without waiting

 for any enquiry at the end of the Bank. Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(12) dt.13-01-2022 4/9 The P.N.B. is directed to come up with a firm

 statement on 21.01.2022 with regard to return of the amount in

 the accounts of the account holders who have been cheated. The R.B.I. guidelines which was being relied by

 the R.B.I. officials with regard to filing of complaints when a

 person has been cheated and amount has been siphoned off

 from his account does not seem to be reasonable as the time

 limit given by the R.B.I. to register a complaint is very less. If a

 bona fide account holder has not visited the Bank and got his

 passbook updated and has not got any message on his mobile

 phone about the fraudulent transfers being made in his account

 then he cannot be directed to bear the loss which has happened

 on account of involvement of the Bank employees along with

 criminals. The R.B.I. should come up with guidelines

 considering the present day situation in which till date Ten

 thousand crores has been siphoned off from the Banks by

 criminals by committing fraud and the very basis of this fraud is

 the sharing of bank details of customers with the criminals by

 the Bank employees for illegal gain. Unless and until the Bank

 employees are involved, the details of the account holders

 including their mobile numbers and KYC etc. cannot be leaked

 out. Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(12) dt.13-01-2022 5/9 This Court has pointed out its concerns to the

 R.B.I. and it is for the R.B.I. officials to reply to the same on the

 next date of hearing i.e. on 21.01.2022. The Punjab National Bank is also directed to

 interact with the Senior Superintendent of Police, Muzaffarpur,

 who has pointed out some issues with the 'App' of P.N.B. and

 thereafter the P.N.B. will take corrective measures to address

 the issues pointed out by the Senior Superintendent of Police,

 Muzaffarpur. The officials of the P.N.B. and R.B.I. who have

 appeared today are again required to appear on 21.1.2022. The R.B.I. is directed to file its response to the

 notes of F.I.U. in a simple language so that the Court can pass

 necessary directions. Violation of TRAI guidelines by the Telecom

 Companies. The Circle Heads of all Telecom Companies

 operating in the State of Bihar excluding BSNL have joined the

 proceeding virtually. This Court has asked them a specific question with

 regard to Circular dated 09.08.2012. Clause-10 of the aforesaid

 Circular requires that the service provider is to lodge F.I.R. in
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(12) dt.13-01-2022 6/9 the concerned Police Station or complaint in the competent

 Court if any forged document is found with CAF(Customer

 Application Form). On the query of the Court, all the Telecom

 Companies have said that they have been filing complaints in

 the office of the D.G.P. pursuant to this Circular and they have

 been receiving acknowledgments. It seems that all the Telecom

 Companies operating in the State of Bihar have found a novel

 way of filing complaints in the D.G.P. office to avoid lodging of

 F.I.R. and filing complaints. This procedure adopted by the

 Telecom Companies is against the guidelines of Circular dated

 09.08.2012. The criminals involved in cyber crime procure

 prepaid sim cards on the basis of forged documents and control

 over the sale of prepaid sim cards by the Telecom Companies is

 necessary to stop the cyber frauds. The Telecom Companies cannot be allowed to

 avoid the guidelines by adopting a new procedure. Initially, this

 Court was of the view that huge penalty should be imposed on

 all Telecom Companies for violating the guideline but now all

 the Telecom Companies have agreed and submitted before this

 Court that they shall be filing complaint/F.I.R. before the

 competent Court / concerned Police Stations, this Court, for the
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(12) dt.13-01-2022 7/9 present, is not imposing any penality upon the Telecom

 Companies. The order passed dated 12.01.2022 passed by the

 Allahabad High Court in a Regular Bail Application has been

 brought to the notice of this Court. The Allahabad High Court

 while denying bail to four accused persons who had withdrawn

 money fraudulently from the account of a retired High Court

 Judge of the Allahabd High Court has considered the

 submission of Union of India that there should be mandatory

 linking of Aadahar Card with the Bank Accounts. The

 Allahabad High Court in its order dated 12.01.2022 considered

 that measures are to be taken in the case of cyber crimes/ cyber

 frauds/ fraudulent withdrawal of money from the Banks and it

 has also considered that it was necessary to fix the

 accountability in the cyber crime matters so that money

 belonging to the victims of cyber fraud is not lost. This Court shall consider the aforesaid issue on

 21.01.2021. Matter related to Cyber Fraud in the districts of Nawada,

 Nalanda and Sheikhpura

 It has come to the notice of this Court that cyber

 fraud is being committed by the criminals mainly in the districts
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(12) dt.13-01-2022 8/9 of Nawada, Nalanda and Sheikhpura within the jurisdiction of

 Warsaliganj, Katrisarai and Shekhopur Police Stations. The Superintendents of Police, Nalanda and

 Nawada have joined the proceeding virtually today. The Superintendents of Police, Nawada, Nalanda

 and Sheikhpura are directed to take all efforts to arrest the

 criminals involved in cyber crimes under their jurisdiction of

 aforesaid Police Stations. They are also directed to get survey

 done in villages falling under the aforesaid three police stations

 and find out about the newly constructed palatial houses of

 criminal involved in cyber frauds so that they may be identified

 and necessary legal action shall be taken against them under the

 Income Tax Act, Prevention of Money Laundering Act or any

 other relevant Acts. All the three Superintendents of Police are directed

 to join the proceeding on the next date of hearing i.e.

 18.01.2021. List this case on 18.01.2022 for considering the

 cyber fraud matters of Nawada, Nalanda and Shikhpura

 districts. On that day, all the Superintendents of Police of the

 three districts will also join the virtual proceeding. The learned counsel for the Telecom Companies
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.38807 of 2020(12) dt.13-01-2022 9/9 are also required to join hearing on 18.01.2022 so that further

 directions are passed in these cases. (Sandeep Kumar, J)
pawan/-