I.A. 22985/2015 (application on behalf of defendant under Order 37
read with Section 151 CPC for leave to defend) 1. Vide this application the defendant (hereinafter called as "AB") has

sought the leave to defend the case. 2. The present suit has been filed by the plaintiff under Order XXXVII

of the Code of Civil Procedure ( CPC ) for the recovery of USD

1,505,267.81 equivalent to `11,00,04,972.03p. along with pendente lite and

future interest at the rate of 12 % per annum from the date of institution of

the present suit till its actual realization. CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 1 3. The brief facts of the case are that the plaintiff Malayan Banking

Berhad (hereinafter called as "MBB") is a foreign bank of Malaysia. AB is

a nationalized bank functioning in India and has one of its branches at Delhi

and is working under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India

(hereinafter called as 'RBI') and therefore is bound to adhere to all the

norms and international standards for banking practices in its operations. It

is submitted that M/s Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd („buyer‟) through State

Trading Corporation of India Ltd. (STC) had placed an order for purchase

of copper wire rods through one M/s Synergic Industrial Materials and

Services Pte Ltd, a company in Singapore („seller‟). There was a contract

between the buyer, STC and the seller. At the instance of STC, AB had

issued four irrevocable Letters of Credit (LCs), the details of which are as

under: 4. It is submitted that the said LCs were available for negotiation with

any bank in Malaysia and were governed by the rules framed by the

International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) being the rules contained in

Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits (UCP-600). By

virtue of these LCs which were irrevocable in nature, the plaintiff and the

defendant entered into a separate and independent contract wherein the

defendant i.e. AB had agreed to reimburse the Negotiating Bank i.e. the

Plaintiff/MBB the amount due at the maturity of the LCs subject to the

presentation of the documents in accordance with the terms of the LCs.

The seller submitted the documents to the plaintiff and the negotiating bank

i.e plaintiff/MBB forwarded them to AB and AB vide its Swift Message

dated 23.12.2011 for LC No. 0189111FLU000150 (hereinafter called as

'LC-50') and 16.01.2012 for LC No. 0189112FLU000159 (hereinafter

called as 'LC-59') confirmed the acceptance of the documents and

undertook to reimburse the said amount on the maturity dates i.e.

07.03.2012 and 06.04.2012 respectively. In respect of LC No.

0189111FLU000151 and LC No. 0189111FLS000154 (hereinafter called as

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 3
 'LC-51' and 'LC-54' respectively), AB did not point out any discrepancy in

the documents sent to them by MBB on receipt from seller, within five

banking days following the day of the presentation as required by Article

16 (d) of the UCP-600 and thus MBB considered it a deemed acceptance of

the documents in respect of these two LCs and released the payment under

these LCs. It was only vide message dated 31.01.2012 that AB informed

MBB that the buyer had informed them that he had not received the goods

dispatched as per the documents and had apprehended that the shipping

documents were fabricated. This message was duly replied. It is submitted

that MBB was not concerned with any dispute between the buyer and the

seller and they had to resolve it among themselves in view of the provisions

of UCP-600. The buyer i.e. M/s Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd. along with

STC filed a suit CS (OS) 545 of 2012 before this court against AB and

others including MBB seeking injunction restraining the defendants from

making payment under LCs in question, on the plea that the goods were

never shipped by the seller and therefore MBB was not entitled to be

reimbursed in terms of LCs. An interim order of stay dated 02.03.2012 was

passed. MBB appeared and filed its written statement claiming vacation of

stay along with an application for rejection of the plaint and the court vide

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 4
 order dated 25.10.2013 dismissed the suit. The defendant AB in its written

statement in the said suit admitted its liability to reimburse the LCs amount

to MBB, the negotiating bank. The order dated 25.10.2013 was challenged

before the Division Bench separately vide RFA (OS) No.139/2013 &

142/2013 by M/s Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd. and STC. The said two

appeals were also dismissed vide order dated 10.12.2013 and 17.12.2013.

M/s Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd and STC filed their respective Special

Leave Petition No.9689/2014 and 11848/2014 wherein no stay was granted

by the Supreme Court. 5. It is contended that despite the stand taken by AB in the said suit, it

had failed to reimburse amount even despite several reminders. The

plaintiff again served a notice upon AB asking for the reimbursement. Vide

letter dated 16.01.2014, AB informed MBB that STC had approached the

RBI vide a representation and requested MBB to defer their action till the

RBI decides the representation. It is submitted that once a LC is issued by a

issuing bank, the issuing bank irrevocably undertake to honor the payment

if the documents presented on the face of them are in compliance with the

terms of LC irrespective of any dispute that may exist in relation to goods

or otherwise between buyer and the seller and the banks are not concerned

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 5
 with such dispute. Also AB had accepted the documents and undertook to

honor the payment on maturity and they cannot retract from their position.

On these facts, the plaintiff had alleged that AB is under irrevocable

obligation to reimburse the amount under LC-51, LC-50, LC-54 and LC-59

to the plaintiff. It was on these facts that the plaintiff has asked for a decree

for a sum of `11,00,04,972.03p. along with future and pendente lite interest

at the rate of 12 % per annum. 6. The case of AB in its application seeking leave to defend is that

MBB had concealed and suppressed the material facts and there exist

several triable issues. It is submitted that MBB is guilty of fraud committed

by it in connivance with seller i.e. Synergic Material Services PTE Limited,

Singapore and Synergic Industrial Material Services, Malaysia (collectively

referred to as "Synergy"). It is submitted that the copper wire had in fact

never been shipped and the compliance documents such as bill of lading,

survey reports etc. were forged and fabricated and so AB is not liable to

reimburse the LCs. It is submitted that AB is not bound by UCP-600. It is

however admitted by AB that four LCs No.0189111FLU000150,

0189111FLU000151, 0189111FLS000154 & 0189112FLU000159 were

issued by it at the instance of STC. It is submitted that STC received the

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 6
 documents of first shipment on 17.12.2011 for acceptance of the goods

which were shipped on 08.12.2011. These documents were presented by

the seller to MBB for payment who sent it to AB. STC conveyed its

acceptance on receiving the acceptance from M/s Millennium Wires Pvt.

Ltd and AB thereafter forwarded the acceptance to MBB, the actual

payment however was to be made after 07.03.2012. As regards the other

shipment STC also gave its acceptance for two more shipments after

receiving the acceptance from M/s Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd. (the buyer).

However, the payment had to be made after 90 days i.e. on 30.03.2012 and

06.04.2012. The three shipment orders were made on 08.12.2011,

31.12.2011 and 07.01.2012 and goods had to reach India within 25 to 30

days after the date of shipment. When the goods did not reach India in time

enquiries were made by STC from the shipping company‟s local agent

namely M/s. Expo Freight Pvt. Ltd. having their local office at Ludhiana

and he advised STC to enquire from the exporter as they had not been able

to trace any container as per the shipment documents in India. The buyer

M/s Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd vide letter dated 23.01.2012 intimated STC

that the exporter/seller i.e. Synergy had played fraud upon STC. STC on

enquiry from shipping company‟s agent in Malaysia namely Diffreight

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 7
 Agencies (M) Sdn. Bhd came to know that an FIR dated 27.02.2012 had

been filed in Malaysia against seller and that the documents submitted by

seller were forged and the containers through which the said shipment were

allegedly sent were not available at the port on the said dates. STC then

informed AB and also rejected the shipment documents in respect of LC- 54. AB then immediately contacted MBB asking them to stop the payments

against LC but learned that MBB had, in violation of the terms of LC

released the money before the expiry of 90 days and made the payment to

Mr. Rajeev Singh of Synergy (seller) against the same loan facility under

Offshore Foreign Currency Loan which was not part of LC transactions in

question. It is submitted that MBB even had released the payment towards

LC-54 despite the fact that documents were rejected by AB and these

conducts of MBB had showed that it is acting in active connivance with

Synergy (seller) and apparently played fraud and has cheated the buyer and

AB and STC and siphoned the money against the four LCs without

delivering the goods. 7. While it is not disputed that a suit CS (OS) 545/2012 was filed by

buyer and STC which was dismissed vide order dated 25.10.2013 as the

plaint was rejected, it is submitted that the plaint was rejected as there was

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 8
 no specific averment of fraud against MBB. It is admitted that the Division

Bench in appeals upheld the said order and the SLP filed before the

Supreme Court against the order of Division Bench of this Court was also

dismissed vide order dated 23.03.2015. It is, however, submitted that the

Supreme Court while dismissing SLP gave liberty to the petitioners therein

i.e. buyer and STC to pursue their remedies before appropriate forum which

has to decide such proceedings on merits without the said decision of the

Supreme Court standing in the way. It is submitted that the issue of fraud

cheating was thus left open to be adjudicated upon afresh. It is submitted

that the said decision of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court does not make the

defendant bank per se liable to make payment to the plaintiff. AB had also

vide its letter dated 23.05.2015 referred the matter to RBI, seeking specific

guidance with regard to the payment in question on the plea that such

payment would amount to violation of FEMA regulations and directions of

RBI are still awaited. A reference in this regard as also been made by STC

before RBI and the said reference is also pending before RBI. STC had

also filed a criminal complaint before the Director of Serious Fraud

Investigation Office (SFIO), Barakhamba Road Police Station against

Synergy and other persons and Mr.Rajeev Singh, MD of Synergy and

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 9
 complaint is registered under Diary No.24A dated 29.06.2015 and SFIO has

forwarded the complaint to Connaught Place Police Station. It is submitted

that Synergy, M/s Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd and STC are necessary

parties and so suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary party. It is submitted

that the plaintiff has not acted with reasonable prudence and in a diligent

manner and thus not entitled to any money. It is submitted that following

triable issues arises in the present case: The reliance is also placed on the findings in the cases of Standard

Chartered Bank (China) Limited Shenzhen Branch vs. State Bank of

Patiala & Ors 207 ( 2014) DLT 631 and Sunil Enterprises and Another vs.

SBI Commercial & International Bank Ltd. (1998) 5 SCC 354. On these

facts it is submitted that leave to defend be granted to the defendant. 8. MBB in its reply to the said application has reiterated its case in the

plaint. It is submitted that there is no triable issue in this case. It is

submitted that the stand/decision taken by AB in the present application is

contrary to position taken by AB in their written statement filed by them in

suit CS (OS) 545/2012 (hereinafter called as „the injunction suit‟) filed by

buyer and STC wherein AB had admitted its liability under LCs and

committed to reimburse the money to MBB. In written statement of the

injunction suit AB had admitted the acceptance of the documents and its

liability to make payment on the due date in terms of UCP-600. It is further

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 11
 submitted that the rejection by AB of the LC-54 is not in accordance with Article 16 of the UCP-600 which fact is also noted by the learned Single

Judge in the said injunction suit. It is submitted that there is no FEMA

violation as far as MBB is concerned and AB has taken a false plea. It is

further submitted that the defendant‟s plea is moonshine and it has not been

able to raise any triable issue. 9. I have heard arguments and perused the relevant record. 10. The present suit has been filed by MBB under Order XXXVII of

CPC which provides a summary procedure. In a summary suit the

defendant is not entitled to defend the suit as in the ordinary suit except

with the permission of the court. It has to apply for leave to defend and

make out a substantial defence, based on which the court may grant

permission to defend the suit either unconditionally or on such terms as the

court deems just and proper. The principles for granting leave to defend

have been discussed extensively from time to time by the various courts

and the Supreme Court in the case of M/s Mechelec Engineers and Mfg.

vs. M/s Basic Equipment Corporation 1977 AIR 577 has enumerated the

principles governing the grant of leave in a summary suit as under: 11. Clearly the burden is upon the defendant to prima facie show to the

court that the defence taken by him is not illusory or shame or moonshine

but it has substantive defence which raises the triable issues. CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 13 12. In this case the admitted facts are that four letters of credit i.e. LC-50,

LC-51, LC-54 and LC-59 were opened by STC through AB payable to

seller through MBB who is a negotiating bank. There exists a contract

between the parties to this suit under the four LCs. It is also an admitted

fact that MBB had forwarded the documents presented by the seller to AB

and AB had cleared the documents for LCs after consultation with STC and

the buyer. Though the documents in respect of one LC-54 were rejected but

the information of such rejection was not conveyed to MBB within the five

working banking days as contemplated under Article 16 (d) of UCP-600

and also in respect of LC-51 there was no information from AB within five

working days from the date of presentation of the documents. It is also an

admitted fact that MBB had made the payment against all the four LCs to

the beneficiary i.e. the seller. Admittedly, there was a prior litigation

between the parties i.e. M/s Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd i.e. buyer and STC

on injunction filed CS (OS) 545/2012 against AB including MBB and

others i.e. the M/s Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd. alleging that M/s

Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd. was manufacturer of copper wire etc and that

STC an international trading house. The Shipping Agent/defendant no.5

who had issued Bill of lading, defendant no.6, the forwarder was the agent

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 14
 of defendant no.5. Defendants no.7 and 8 were the courier companies and

defendant no.9, the company in charge of carrying out the inspection of the

goods exported by seller and defendants no.10 and 11 were the marine

cargo insurance company and defendant no.12, the Government Port

authority monitoring inward and outward movement of the vessels. Buyer

and STC entered into an Associateship Agreement on 02.12.2011 for

import of cast copper wire rods. The LCs were opened by the STC through

defendant AB payable to the sellers through negotiating bank i.e. MBB. In

that case the buyer had alleged that it had received the documents showing

dispatch of the goods but the goods were not delivered by the seller and that

the seller had played fraud on them. 13. The buyer and STC admitted the receipt of the documents from seller

and its acceptance and conveyance of such acceptance to AB. In the said

suit an injunction was issued against AB from honoring said four LCs and

against MBB from making any payment under the said LCs. AB in its

written statement had taken the following stand: 21. That in the contents of para 2 of the plaint needs
 no reply from the answering Defendant No.1. It is submitted
 that Banks deal only with documents and not goods
 covered therein. 26.That in reply to para 26 of the plaint it is reiterated that
 the answering Defendant No. 1 is under obligation, under
 UCP -600 to make payment of the three sets of documents
 accepted by the Plaintiff No.2 on their respective due
 dates. It is submitted that the Plaintiff No. 2 is liable to
 provide funds for the same. It is further submitted that the
 Plaintiff No. 2, despite having not accepted, cannot refuse
 payment of the Fourth LC on the ground of fraud when
 there is no discrepancy in the documents and in such
 circumstances the Plaintiff No.2 has to provide the funds
 to the answering Defendant No.1 also for the Fourth LC.
 The non-acceptance of documents by Plaintiff No.2 in such
 circumstances is of no consequence. It is denied that in
 such circumstances the answering Defendant No. 1 will be
 solely liable, as alleged. 39. That para 39 of the Plaint does not relate to the
 answering Defendant No.1 and such needs no reply from the
 answering Defendant No.1. Further it is submitted that

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 16
 Banks assume no liability or responsibility arising out of
 genuineness, falsification or legal effect etc. of any
 document dealt with. 51. That in reply to para 51 of the Plaint it is denied that the
 three LCs cannot be honoured by the answering Defendant
 No.1. it is reiterated that the answering Defendant no. 1, is
 under obligation under UCP-600 to make payment of the
 documents on the respective due dates. Further it is
 reiterated that under UCP -600 the Defendant No. 1 Bank
 assumes no liability or responsibility arising out of
 genuineness, falsification or legal effect etc. of any
 document dealt with by it. 14. The Court in that suit has observed as under: Acceptance of the same was conveyed by
 Defendant No. 1 to Defendant No. 4 on 23rd
 December 2011. The relevant bill of lading for
 shipment of the goods was dated 8th December
 2011. In respect of the said LC the payment has
 been made by Defendant No. 4 to Defendant No. 2. (ii) As regards LC No. 151, it was opened on 7th
 December 2011 and was negotiated by Defendant
 No. 4 with Defendant No.1 on 12th December
 2011. The relevant bill of lading is dated 9th
 December 2011. Defendant No. 1 by its letter
 dated 31st December 2011 conveyed to Defendant
 No. 4 that it would not able to accept the LC In
 respect of the said LC, the payment has already

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 17
 been made by Defendant No. 4 to Defendant No. 2. (iii) As regards LC No. 154, it was opened on
 17th December 2011 and was negotiated by
 Defendant No. 4 with Defendant No. 1` on 22nd
 December 2011; the relevant bill of lading is
 dated 31st December 2011; payment has already been made by Defendant No. 4 to Defendant No. 2 against the said LC. (iv) LC No. 159 was opened on 2nd January 2012
 and negotiated by Defendant No. 4 with
 Defendant No. 1 on 6th January 2012; acceptance
 of the LC was conveyed by Defendant No. 1 on
 16th January 2012 and the bill of lading is dated
 7th January 2012. 13. It is stated that when the documents were received from
 Defendant No. 1 with respect to LCs 150, 154 and 159, "the
 Plaintiffs came to know that Defendant No. 2 company had
 manufactured courier receipt to demonstrate export and
 had falsely declared that fax message have been sent and
 further fabricated other documents to prove exports." It is
 further stated that documents received against LC No. 151
 were rejected by Plaintiffs and duly communicated to
 Defendant No. 1 on the basis of discrepancies. The
 documents pertaining to LC No. 150 alleged to have been
 sent by Defendant No. 2 to Plaintiff No. 2 on 8th December
 2011 through courier and the documents pertaining to LC
 No. 154 alleged to have been sent by courier on 31st
 December 2011 were never received by Plaintiff No. 2 or by
 Plaintiff No. 1. However, manufactured courier receipts
 "pertaining to alleged dispatch were sent by Defendant No.
 2 to Defendant No. 1 Bank." When Plaintiff No. 1 tried to
 trace the said couriers through internet it found that no such
 documents were in fact dispatched since the courier receipts
 themselves were fabricated. It is stated that DHL informed
 Plaintiff No. 2 that the shipment documents were in fact not
 handed over to DHL Express, Malaysia. Likewise, in
 respect of the documents pertaining to LC No. 159 the

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 18
 courier agency confirmed that the said documents did not
 exist. On 23rd January 2012 Plaintiff No. 1 informed
 Plaintiff No. 2 of the abovementioned fraud played by
 Defendant No. 2. 15. There are numerous allegations of fraud against
 Defendant No. 2. However, as regards Defendant No. 4 the
 specific allegations are contained in para 17 wherein it is
 averred that "the Plaintiffs apprehend that Defendant No. 4
 Bank (which is the Negotiating/Beneficiary Bank) is in
 active collusion with the Defendant Nos. 2 and 3". 30. The law in regard to the LCs can therefore, be
 summarised as under: 31. In the present case, as noted hereinbefore, the
 allegations against Defendant No. 4 are in paras 17 and 47
 of the plaint. The allegation in para 17 is only that the
 Plaintiffs apprehend that Defendant No. 4 Bank "is in active
 collusion with Defendant Nos. 2 and 3." In para 47, the
 allegation is that Defendant No. 4 "has also wrongly
 negotiated with the Defendant No. 2 without correctly
 verifying the documents giving rise to suspicion, that it is
 hands in glove with Defendant No. 2" 15. The STC and M/s Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd approached the

division bench vide separate appeals. The division bench passed an order

dated 10.12.2013 in RFA (OS) No.139/2013 of STC. The relevant

paragraphs of the order in appeal are reproduced as under: CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 20 10. Contrary to this, STC had argued that with respect to
 LCs 150, 154 and 159, "the plaintiffs (i.e. STC and MWPL)
 came to know that the Defendant No. 2 company had
 manufactured courier receipt to demonstrate export and
 had falsely declared that fax message have been sent and
 further fabricated other documents to prove exports". With
 respect to LC 151, STC had argued that the documents
 received were duly rejected and this fact was communicated
 to Allahabad Bank. 11. In this context, Allahabad Bank‟s stand was that "after
 receiving from Plaintiff No. 2 acceptance of the sets of
 documents received from the Defendant No.4, the answering
 Defendant No.1 communicated the same to the Defendant
 No. 4 advising the due dates of payment in respect of the
 following three LCs: (a) 0189111FLU000150 (b)
 0189111FLS000154 (c) 0189112FLU000159." Thus, the
 Allahabad Bank confirms that with respect to these 3 LCs,
 at the least, complying presentation was made, and that
 acceptance from STC (and Millennium) was made. 12. The foreign bank contended that in terms of UCP-600
 once the LC stands paid by the negotiating bank, it is an
 irrevocable undertaking of the issuing bank to make the
 payment especially when it has accepted the documents and
 agreed to pay on the date of maturity. It is stated that there
 is no allegation of fraud against Allahabad Bank, the
 Synergic Companies and the foreign bank, the plaint had to
 be rejected. The foreign bank also relied on the judgment of
 the Supreme Court in United Commercial Bank v. Bank of
 India , (1981) 2 SCC 766. It stated that payments were made
 by it (the foreign bank) to Allahabad Bank without any
 knowledge of fraud and therefore, Allahabad Bank was
 obliged to honour its commitment under each of the LCs in
 terms of UCP-600. As regards LCs 150, 154 and 159, the
 foreign bank, in line with the stand of Allahabad Bank,
 maintains that the documents were accepted by STC, and
 thus, no dispute arises in that regard. As regards LC 151,
 the foreign bank argues that, again, notice under Article 16 of UCP-600 was made, such that payment under the LC

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 21
 could be injuncted within the framework of UCP-600, which
 is argued to regulate the entire LC transaction, as opposed
 to the contractual relations between STC/Millennium and
 the Synergic companies. 13. The foreign bank also sought vacation of the interim
 stay granted by the order dated 2nd March 2012. Reliance
 was placed upon Articles 4 , 5 , 15 and 16 of UCP-600 to
 argue that the underlying contract is independent of the
 letter of credit, which constitutes a distinct agreement to pay
 upon complying presentation in terms of UCP-600.
 Specifically, it was argued that once the documents required
 to release the payment under the LC have been presented,
 and are in compliance with the requirements under the
 terms of the LC, then the bank is under an obligation to
 make the payment irrespective of the views of the purchaser,
 as any dispute that the latter may have against the seller is
 to be raised inter se in alternate proceedings. Thus, it was
 argued that "as there is no discrepancy in the documents ...
 non acceptance of documents by Plaintiff No.2, in such
 circumstances, is of no consequence." 19. The bank‟s obligation, in this case of the foreign bank, is
 to honour the LC, and in the words of the Court,
 "if the seller prima facie complies with the terms
 of the Bank Guarantee or Letter or Credit,
 namely, if the seller products the documents
 enumerated in the Bank Guarantee or Letter of
 Credit. If the Bank if satisfied on the face of the
 documents that they are in conformity with the list
 of documents mentioned in the Bank Guarantee or
 Letter of Credit and there is no discrepancy, it is
 bound to honour the demand of the seller for
 encashment." 20. This obligation is not affected merely because the buyer
 disputes the due performance of the contract. The obligation
 is unaffected, as long as the documents presented are in
 accordance with the terms of the LC. That is the essence of
 the documentary autonomy of the LC. In this case, the

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 22
 documents presented for LCs 150, 154 and 156 were in
 order, and this was never disputed by STC or Millennium.
 Quite to the contrary, STC admitted to having conveyed its
 acceptance with respect to these three LCs to Allahabad
 Bank. As regards LC 151, the foreign bank‟s position is
 that the documents complied with the requirements under
 the LC, and, the obligation therefore, to pay was triggered.
 Here, Article 16 , UCP-600 is crucial, which reads as
 follows: 21. Article 16(f) , therefore, casts a responsibility on the
 issuing and confirming banks to be diligent in following the
 provisions of Article 16 , failing which the documents would
 be deemed to constitute complying performance for the
 purpose of releasing payment under the LC, with or without
 the waiver from the buyer. Crucially, the decision as to
 whether the documents constitute complying presentation is
 solely that of the issuing bank (i.e. its "sole judgment", in
 terms of the sub-clause (b), in this case, Allahabad Bank),
 which may, in case a discrepancy in the documents is found,
 approach the buyer for a waiver. However, in a case where
 the issuing bank does decide that the documents do not meet
 the compliance requirements under the LC, in terms of
 clause (c), such notice must be given "no later than the

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 24
 close of the fifth banking day following the day of
 presentation." 22. Thus, in case the payment under the LC is to be
 injuncted, a notice under Section 16 is mandatory, within
 the terms of that article. In this case, as regards LCs 150,
 154 and 159, the documents were accepted by Allahabad
 Bank, and no notice was given under Section 16 , thus
 rendering payment under those LCs by the foreign bank
 proper. As regards LC 151, the only LC as regards which
 STC/Millennium claim to have rejected the documents, two
 points are important: first, that under Article 16 , UCP, it is
 the sole judgment of Allahabad Bank to determine whether
 the documents constitute a complying presentation, and if
 that bank does so determine, the non-acceptance by the
 buyer (STC/Millennium) is not determinative. However, if
 Allahabad Bank were to determine that the documents do
 not constitute complying presentation, the same could be
 waived by STC/Millennium. In this case, however, as
 regards LCs 150, 154 and 159, no such question arose;
 whereas with regard to LC 151, the refusal to honour the
 LC by Allahabad Bank (after receiving notice of non-
 acceptance by STC) came after 5 days from presentation of
 the LC by the foreign bank. In such a case, the terms of
 Article 16(d), read with 16(f), are clear, in that payment
 under the LC subsequently by the foreign bank cannot be
 objected to. 16. The RFA (OS) No.139/2013 was also dismissed in terms of order

dated 10.12.2013 in RFA No. 142/2013. These orders were challenged by

STC and M/s Millennium Wires Pvt. Ltd, before the Supreme Court. The

Supreme Court vide its order dated 23.03.2015 dismissed the appeals. The

relevant paragraphs are extracted as under: CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 25 8. The major contention of the appellants herein is that the
 High Court has committed grave error in dismissing the suit
 under Order VII Rule 11 as it acted against the settled
 principles of procedure with respect to application under
 Order VII Rule 11. According to the appellants, in such an
 application, the Court ought to have looked into the
 averments contained in the plaint only and it cannot look
 into the written statement or any other evidence filed by the
 Defendant. The Plaintiffs/appellants have, inter alia, relied
 on Saleem Bhai v. State of Maharashtra , ( 2003) 1 SCC 557,
 Popat Kotecha Property v. State Bank of India Association ,
 (2005) 7 SCC 510, and Sopan Sukhdeo Sable v. Asst.
 Charity Commissioner, (2004) 3 SCC 137. 10. Nothing in the plaint except the above two extracts even
 come close to being an allegation against the Negotiating
 Banks. In the above two extracts, there is expression of mere
 apprehension of the Plaintiffs that Negotiating Banks were
 in active collusion with the Synergic Companies. No
 explanation or justification has been made in the plaint as
 to how this active collusion came about or what makes the
 plaintiff suspect so. It is true that in the plaint not all the
 evidence with respect to allegations is to be adduced
 however, a comprehensive narration of facts that constitute
 cause of action has to be given in the plaint. It is plain and
 clear that no cause of action, whatsoever, may be deduced
 against the Negotiating Bank from the above two extracts
 which form part of the plaint. 14. Furthermore, it appears that the Malayn Bank had
 forwarded the documents presented by the Synergic
 Companies to the Allahabad Bank. Out of four Letters of
 Credit, Allahabad Bank had accepted the presentation of
 documents in two Letters of Credit with the consultation of
 the STC. Only one of the presentation was rejected while
 there is no information with respect to the response of the
 Allahabad Bank on presentation of documents of the fourth
 Letter of Credit. Even on the Letter of Credit for which the
 presentation was rejected, the response was made after 19
 days while UPC-600 provides that rejection or any

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 26
 objection against the presentation must be communicated to
 the negotiating bank of the beneficiary within 5 days. 15. In the circumstances as narrated above and in light of
 the settled law on the point of injunction against the banks
 to honour their guarantees, we are of the view that these
 appeals are to be dismissed and accordingly appeals are
 dismissed. 16. Before we part with, it would be most appropriate for us
 to point out that the appellants can pursue their remedies
 against the Synergic Companies in appropriate forum by
 instituting appropriate proceedings, if so advised. However,
 we make it clear that the opinion expressed by us in this
 judgment shall not stand in the way of deciding such
 proceedings on merits. 17. In view of the above facts, it is apparent that in the earlier suit AB

had clearly admitted its liability to make the payment under four LCs

honouring the terms and conditions of those four LCs and following the

procedure laid down in UCP-600. It is apparent that fraud by the seller was

the plea raised in the earlier suit by the buyer and the STC and based on

this plea the injunction was sought qua these four LCs whereby MBB and

AB were sought to be injuncted from releasing the money under the four

LCs. The court, however, rejected the claim of the buyers i.e. Millennium

Wires Pvt. Ltd and STC and the injunction was refused and this order was

confirmed by the Supreme Court in SLP. It is argued on behalf of AB that

the Apex court had given permission to pursue the remedies in appropriate

forum by instituting appropriate proceedings on the plea of fraud being

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 27
 played by the buyer upon the seller and so this court should grant them

leave to defend the suit. It is however argued by the learned counsel for

MBB that the permission to institute a fresh suit on the plea of fraud was in

fact given by the Supreme Court to the plaintiffs in that suit i.e. Millennium

Wires Pvt. Ltd and STC and no permission was given to AB. It is

submitted that AB cannot come before this court taking the plea of fraud

allegedly played by buyer upon the seller because the contract between AB

and MBB is an independent contract and at no stage AB had taken the

stand that MBB had violated any terms and conditions of the said contract. Learned counsel for MBB has argued that the law relating to letters of

credit is founded on principles of autonomy of the credit and doctrine of

strict compliance and has also relied on the findings of the Supreme Court

in UBS AG vs. State Bank of Patiala (2006) 5 SCC 416 and has

particularly referred to paragraphs 22 & 35 of the said order which are

reproduced as under: 18. The Supreme Court has clearly held in UBS AG 's case (supra) that

when a bank makes the payment following the contract between the

negotiating bank and the beneficiary bank and any fraud subsequently

detected cannot be set up as a defence in a suit filed for reimbursement of

such payment by negotiating bank. In the averment in written statement of

in suit No.545/2012, AB had clearly admitted the fact that it had cleared the

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 29
 documents received from MBB after obtaining the green signal from STC

and it was based on this clearance by AB that MBB had made the payment. In its written statement AB had claimed reimbursement from STC as it was

STC who had opened the LC with AB. The Supreme Court had also in the

case of United Commercial Bank vs. Bank of India and Others (1981) 2

SSC 766 clearly held that the paying bank must strictly adhere to the terms

of credit letter and it is not concerned with the sale contract. It is a settled

preposition of law that the obligation of the bank is absolute. In the case of I.T.C. Limited vs. Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal & Others (1998) 2

SCC 70, the court has clearly held as under: (emphasis supplied)
 It will be noticed from the italicised underlined portion in
 the above passage that there will be no cause of action in
 favour of the bank in cases where the seller has not shipped
 the goods or where the goods have not conformed to the
 requirements of the contract. The Bank, in the present case
 before us, could not, by merely stating that there was non-
 supply of goods by the appellant, use the words "fraud or
 misrepresentation" for purposes of coming under the
 exception. The dispute as to non-supply of goods was a
 matter between the seller and buyer and did not, as stated in the above decision , provide any cause of action for the Bank
 against the seller. 23. In the result we hold that an allegation of non-supply of
 goods by the sellers to the buyers did not by itself amount,
 in law, to a plea of "fraud" as understood in this branch of
 the law and hence by merely characterising alleged non-
 movement of goods as "fraud", the Bank cannot claim that
 there was a cause of action based on fraud or

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 31
 misrepresentation. Nor is the case before us one where
 there is an allegation of presentation of forged or fraudulent
 documents." 19. The Supreme Court in the case Federal Bank Limited vs. V. M. Jog

Engineering Ltd. and Others 2001 (1) SCC 663 has clearly held that the

court should not issue injunctions restraining encashment of the bank

guarantee or letter of credit on the ground of breach of the main contract

between the buyer and the seller as the contract of the bank guarantee or

letter of credit is independent of the main contract and the only exception is

fraud. As regards the fraud it is necessary to prove that the bank had

knowledge about it. The court has categorically stated as under: 20. In this case AB had at no stage before filing of the application for

leave to defend had raised the plea that MBB was having the knowledge of

fraud allegedly played by the seller at the time when the money was

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 32
 released under the LC to the seller. Mere allegation in the application for

leave to defend that MBB had acted in connivance with the seller without

disclosing any facts to infer such conspiracy or fraud, is not sufficient for

grant of leave to defend. AB had admitted that MBB released the money in

respect of two LCs only after the nod to do that, was given by AB. As soon

as the documents were confirmed by AB, MBB was under obligation to

clear the payment and accordingly it did. Contention of AB that the time

for payment was 90 days under the LC has no bearing because the liability

to pay was crystallized on the day AB conveyed the acceptance of the

document to MBB and the period of 90 days was only that MBB had to

make the payment within 90 days. The covenant does not say that payment

was to be made only on expiry of 90 days. AB had failed to convince the

court that MBB was to clear the payment only on expiry of 90 days period

from the date the documents were accepted. It is also admitted fact that the

rejection of documents qua LC-54 was conveyed to MBB only after expiry

of five working days as contemplated in UCP-600. Also no communication

was sent to MBB by AB regarding acceptance or rejection of the

documents relating to LC-51 within the stipulated period under Article 16 (d) of UCP-600. The rejection of the documents must be conveyed no later

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 33
 than the close of the five working days of bank following the day of

presentation of the documents. MBB had acted as per the terms of LC and

there is nothing on record to show that it had acted dishonestly or

fraudulently. 21. Learned counsel for AB has relied on Standard Chartered Bank (supra) and has submitted that in the said case on the same facts, the court

had granted leave to defend. The facts in this case are however different

from the facts in the present case. The suit was filed by Standard Chartered

Bank against defendants no.1, 2 and 3 i.e. State Bank of Patiala who had

issued the standby letter of credit (in short SBLC) in favour of plaintiff

bank and defendant no. 3 was the seller of the goods to defendant no.2 who

was the buyer. This SBLC was issued at the instance of defendant no.2 and

which was also extended twice. It was when defendant no.3 did not pay for

the banking facility extended by Standard Chartered Bank that the Standard

Chartered Bank invoked the SBLC and submitted the bill of exchange.

State Bank of Patiala defendant no.1 although by one swift message agreed

to pay to the plaintiff, however subsequently it refused to make the

payment on the ground that the claim of the Standard Chartered Bank was

incomplete as per SBLC terms. Defendant no.3 therein admitted the breach

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 34
 of contract with defendant no.2 and in view thereof the defendant no.1 had

stopped the payment to be made pursuant to SBLC. Defendant no.2, the

seller instituted a suit for mandatory injunction against State Bank of

Patiala wherein the State Bank of Patiala made a statement that they were

not going to make any payments to the plaintiff. The said suit was

dismissed. In that case the contentions of defendants no.1 and 2 i.e. State

Bank of Patiala and the seller that fraud had been played on defendant no.2

since defendant no.3 did not deliver the goods, the SBLC in favour of

plaintiff is not required to be honoured. It was on these facts that the court

observed as under: However, the bank's duty to the seller is only vitiated if
 there is fraud on the part of the seller and not if there is a

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 35
 discrepancy in goods supplied. In U.P. Cooperative
 Federation Ltd. vs. Singh Consultants and Engineer (P)
 Ltd. , : 1988 (1) SCC 174 their Lordships held: There the court held that where though the guarantee
 was given for the performance by the party on whose
 behalf guarantee was given, in an orderly manner its
 contractual obligation, the obligation was undertaken
 by the bank to repay the amount on "first demand" and
 "without contestation, demur or protest and without
 reference to such party and without questioning the
 legal relationship subsisting between the party in
 whose favour guarantee was given and the party on
 whose behalf guarantee was given", and the guarantee
 also stipulated that the bank should forthwith pay the
 amount due "notwithstanding any dispute between the
 parties", it must be deemed that the moment a demand
 was made without protest and contestation, the bank
 had obliged itself to pay irrespective of any dispute as
 to whether there had been performance in an orderly
 manner of the contractual obligation by the party.
 Consequently, in such a case, the party on whose
 behalf guarantee was given was not entitled to an
 injunction restraining the bank in performance of its
 guarantee. It appears that special equities mentioned
 therein may be a situation where the injunction was
 sought for to prevent injustice which was irretrievable

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 36
 in the words of Lord Justice Danckwerts [Vide
 Corrigendum No. F.3/Ed BJ/43 dated 8-9-88] in Elian
 and Rabbath v. Matsas and Matsas [(1966) 2 LLLR
 495]. 9. This Court in National Highways Authority of India Vs.
 Elsamex-TWS-SNC Joint Venture ,: 150 (2008) DLT 215
 held that if prima face case is made out that an element of
 fraud exists on the part of the beneficiary or if there exists a
 special equity in the form of preventing irretrievable
 injustice then alone an injunction may be issued. Further,
 fraud has to be of an egregious nature and not a dispute
 that goods supplied are not as per contract. Considering the
 fact that the Defendants have clearly made out a case of
 fraud of an egregious nature wherein no goods have been
 supplied at all, I am of the considered opinion that it is a fit
 case where leave to defend is required to be granted to
 Defendants No. 1 and 2. In that case following the said principle the court had observed that

the defendants had clearly made out a case of egregious nature wherein no

goods have been supplied at all. In this case however MBB had already

released the money under the LC in the circumstances mentioned above. In

the present case however it is apparent that MBB had acted bonafidely. In

the earlier suit AB had clearly in its written statement admitted his liability

of payment under four LCs in terms of provisions UCP-600. Also in para

21 of its written statement AB had clearly stated "that the banks only deal

with the documents and not goods covered therein". Also there is a finding

in the judgment dated 28.10.2013 where this court in the earlier litigation

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 37
 has clearly held in para 38 as reproduced above that viewing from any

angle there is nothing on record to show that defendant no. 4 (MBB) had

any knowledge about the fraud and further held that the allegations were

not sufficient to give rise to a cause of action against defendant no. 4

(MBB). 22. The findings in Sunil Enterprises 's case (Supra) are on different

facts. In that case, on the facts of the case the Court was satisfied that there

was an element of fraud and so the leave to defend was granted. However,

in this case, the issue of fraud being played by MBB already stands

determined by order of this Court dated 28.10.2013 which was confirmed

by Supreme Court as discussed above. Therefore, even if there was any

fraud being played by the seller, it stands finally determined that MBB had

no knowledge of it. It seems that AB is contesting the case of the buyer and

the STC whose claim for injunction had failed in the earlier suit against AB

as well as MBB on the plea of fraud being played by the seller in

connivance with MBB. The defendant AB is bound to honour the terms

and conditions of the LC which is an independent to the agreement

between the buyer and the seller. In this regard, the following observation

CS(OS) 745/2015 Page 38
 of the Court in R.D.Harbottle (Mercantile) Ltd. vs. National Westminster

Bank, (1977) 3 WLR 752 is sufficient to resolve the controversy: 23. From the above, it is apparent that the allegation of fraud on the part

of MBB is merely a bald allegation not supported by any facts on record.

The defendant AB has failed to bring on record any triable issue or any

issue which needs enquiry and investigation. The application for leave to

defend is, therefore, rejected and the present suit of the plaintiff/MBB is

hereby decreed for a sum of `11,00,04,972.03p. along with pendente lite

and future simple interest till its realization at the rate of 9% per annum in

terms of Section 34 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Decree sheet be

prepared. No orders as to cost.