1. Bail Application filed under Section 482 of the Bhartiya Nagrik
 Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (hereinafter referred to as "BNSS") read with Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred
 to as " CrPC ") has been filed by the Petitioner/Aayush Goyal for grant of
 Anticipatory Bail in FIR No. 44/2025 dated 08.07.2025 under Sections
 318(4) / 61(2) / 3(5) Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 (hereinafter referred to as
 "BNS") [corresponding to Section 420 / 120B / 34 of the Indian Penal Code
 ( IPC ) 1860] at P.S. Cyber, South-West. 2. The case of the Prosecution is that the present FIR under Section
 318(4) BNS was registered at P.S. Cyber South West on the Complaint of
 one Sh. Abhishek Raj. He alleged that he received a WhatsApp call from
 number 8629967903, where a woman introduced herself as "Akansha," 3. During investigation, it was found that the calling numbers were
 operated through the website waho.pro, which is hosted on a U.S.-based
 server. Inquiry regarding the same is still pending. 4. Further investigation revealed that Rs.90,000/- of the cheated amount
 was transferred into an IDFC First Bank account belonging to one Ahtisham
 S/o Lt. Tahseen Ali, R/o R-144, Gali No. 7, Ramesh Park, Laxmi Nagar,
 Delhi. 5. On 24.07.2025, a raid was conducted in Laxmi Nagar and accused
 Ahtisham was traced. During interrogation, he disclosed that he opened the
 said IDFC account on the instructions of one Mukesh Luthra @ Pankaj in
 exchange for a commission of Rs.8,000/-, and that Mukesh was present at
 the time of account opening. He further stated that Mukesh got the cheated Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS BAIL APPLN. 4385/2025 Page 2 of 9 ARORA Signing Date:15.12.2025 17:27:47 money transferred into his account, which he then withdrew through cheque,
 (recorded by the bank CCTV footage) and handed over the cash to Mukesh,
 who paid him his commission of Rs.8,000/- for his role. Accused Ahtisham
 was arrested. 6. Co-accused Mukesh Luthra @ Pankaj S/o Gulshan Luthra R/o H No.
 13/55, Geeta Colony, East Delhi, was traced, at the instance of Ahtisham.
 During interrogation, he disclosed that he gave the cheated funds to co-
 accused Garvit, who deposited the money via cash-deposit machines into
 multiple mule Accounts provided by the present Applicant, in exchange for
 cryptocurrency. Mukesh was arrested and sent to JC. 7. During further investigation, a Notice under Section 35(3) BNSS was
 served to co-accused Garvit @ Golu. He initially failed to join the
 investigation and sought Anticipatory Bail, which was granted on grounds of
 settlement and with a direction to cooperate. He later joined the
 investigation and disclosed that he obtained several accounts through
 Mukesh Luthra and supplied them to the Applicant/Aayush Goyal, who
 further circulated them on cryptocurrency platforms, for receiving cheated
 funds. 8. The incriminating WhatsApp chats between co-accused Garvit and
 Applicant were recovered from Garvit's mobile phone, showing the
 petitioner sharing multiple bank account details. These screenshots were
 placed on record. 9. Two Notices under Section 35(3) BNSS were also served to
 Applicant Aayush Goyal, but he did not join the investigation. 10. His Anticipatory Bail Application before the Ld. Sessions Court was
 dismissed vide Order dated 01.11.2025. 11. The grounds taken by the Applicant for seeking Anticipatory Bail
 are that there is no direct or indirect evidence linking him to the alleged
 offence, and his name does not appear in the FIR or any primary documents
 forming the basis of the Complaint. 12. It is submitted that the Applicant is neither known to the Complainant
 nor to any of the co-accused named in the FIR. He has had no
 communication, contact, or dealings (financial or digital) with any of them
 and has not participated in any activity related to the alleged offence. 13. It is submitted that no independent evidence has been presented to
 establish that the Applicant provided any "mule account" or facilitated any
 fraudulent cryptocurrency transaction. 14. Furthermore, the Applicant has never received any money,
 commission, or benefit from the alleged fraudulent transaction. His
 legitimate academic interest in cryptocurrency has been misinterpreted and
 wrongly linked to the FIR. 15. Moreover, the Applicant is a 22-year-old MBA (Finance) student at
 Amity University, Noida, with no criminal history. His continued detention
 or arrest would cause grave and irreparable damage to his education,
 reputation, and future career prospects. 16. It is submitted that the Complainant has already received the entire
 cheated amount from the other co-accused, as recorded in Orders dated
 29.07.2025 and 13.08.2025 by Ld. ASJ. Therefore, custodial interrogation of
 the Applicant serves no purpose. All relevant records, digital data, and Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS BAIL APPLN. 4385/2025 Page 4 of 9 ARORA Signing Date:15.12.2025 17:27:47 financial information are already with the investigating Agency, and the
 Applicant's cooperation can be secured without arrest. 17. It is submitted that the principle of parity applies in the Applicant's
 favour. When similarly placed co-accused persons have been granted
 Anticipatory Bail, denying the same relief to the Applicant would amount to
 unequal treatment and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 18. Reliance is placed on Sushila Aggarwal vs. State (NCT of
 Delhi ), (2020) 5 SCC 1, which recognizes anticipatory bail as a safeguard of
 individual liberty. 19. Lastly, it is submitted that the Applicant has strong roots in the
 community, is not a flight risk, is a permanent Delhi resident, and resides
 with his family. The Applicant undertakes to fully cooperate with the
 investigation. 20. Thus, it is prayed that the impugned Order dated 01.11.2025 of Ld.
 ASJ, be set aside and Applicant be granted Bail. 21. The Respondent/State has vehemently opposed the Bail
 Application on the grounds that the investigation has established that
 Applicant is a crucial link in the cyber-fraud network. He was actively
 involved in procuring and supplying mule bank accounts for receiving
 cheated funds via P2P cryptocurrency platforms. 22. Incriminating WhatsApp chats and screenshots recovered from co-
 accused Garvit's phone clearly show the petitioner was regularly sharing
 numerous bank account details for facilitating the fraudulent transfers. The
 communication pattern evidences active coordination and financial dealings. 23. Despite being served two Notices under Section 35(3) BNSS, the
 Applicant deliberately avoided joining the investigation, indicating
 intentional evasion and non-cooperation, which has significantly obstructed
 progress in this digitally-driven offence. 24. It is submitted that custodial interrogation is essential to uncover the
 full network of mule accounts, recover digital devices, crypto-wallets,
 private keys, transaction IDs, identify foreign crypto platforms and handlers,
 and ascertain the extent of financial trails and illegal gains. 25. Furthermore, it is submitted that cyber-fraud cases involve highly
 perishable digital evidence. If granted anticipatory bail, the petitioner is
 likely to delete chats, cloud backups, crypto-wallets, and other electronic
 traces, causing irreversible damage to the investigation. 26. It is also submitted that the Applicant is also wanted in FIR
 No.49/2025 under Sections 318(4) / 61(2) / 3(5) BNS at P.S. Cyber, North-
 West, New Delhi. He is the kingpin of a gang of cheats and his custodial
 interrogation is required to unearth the whole controversy. 27. Thus, the Bail Application is liable to be rejected.
 Submissions heard and record perused. 28. The present case essentially pertains to an alleged cyber-fraud
 operation involving inducement of the Complainant through a work-from-
 home scam, whereby he was deceived into transferring money on the pretext
 of earning online income. The investigation revealed a multi-layered chain
 in which the cheated amount was routed through various bank Accounts
 allegedly used as "mule accounts," with some funds ultimately withdrawn
 in cash and purportedly circulated further. 29. The co-accused Mukesh Luthra @ Pankaj, was traced and during
 interrogation, he disclosed that he had handed over the cheated funds to co-
 accused Garvit, who further deposited the said money through cash deposit
 machines into mule accounts provided by the present Applicant, in exchange
 for cryptocurrency. The Applicant is alleged to be involved only on the basis
 of co-accused disclosures and purported WhatsApp chats. 30. Though the Applicant is not named in the FIR, nor is there any direct
 allegation by the Complainant of the inducement, deception, or receipt of
 cheated money, but he is allegedly the main co-conspirator who provided
 the Mule Accounts for transfer of money. His involvement may have
 emerged through the disclosure statements of the co-accused, but according
 to the State there is incriminating evidence by way of money withdrawals
 and WhatsApp communication. 31. The entire cheated amount has already been recovered and paid to the
 Complainant. As noted in the Order of Ld. ASJ dated 29.07.2025, the
 Complainant has settled the matter with the accused persons and also
 acknowledges the payment received by him. No custodial interrogation of
 the Applicant is merited especially when the entire evidence is essentially
 documented and investigation would be data-centric. 32. Moreover, the co-accused Garvit, whose role is alleged to be more
 proximate in handling of mule accounts and cash deposits, has already been
 granted Anticipatory Bail vide Order dated 29.07.2025. The Applicant is
 entitled to similar relief on the principle of parity. 33. Lastly, it is noted that the Applicant has clean antecedents and is a
 young man of 22 years who is pursuing his MBA. There is no material to Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS BAIL APPLN. 4385/2025 Page 7 of 9 ARORA Signing Date:15.12.2025 17:27:47 suggest that he is a flight risk or would abscond or influence the witnesses, if
 protected by Anticipatory Bail. 34. In view of the aforesaid circumstances, it is directed that in the event
 of arrest, the Applicant/Accused/Aayush Goyal shall be admitted to
 Anticipatory Bail by the Investigating Officer/Arresting Officer, subject to
 be following conditions:- 35. The Petition stands disposed of in the above terms. The Pending
 Application, if any, also stands disposed of. 36. Copy of the Order be sent to the Ld. Trial Court for compliance. (NEENA BANSAL KRISHNA)
 JUDGE
 DECEMBER 15, 2025/RS Signature Not Verified Signed By:VIKAS BAIL APPLN. 4385/2025 Page 9 of 9 ARORA Signing Date:15.12.2025 17:27:47