VIBHU BAKHRU, J 1. The petitioners have filed the present petitions, inter alia, impugning
the action of NTPC Ltd. (respondent no.1) in invoking and encashing the W.P.(C) 7493/2016 & 9511/2016 Page 1 of 30 respective bank guarantees submitted by the petitioners alongwith their
bids. The petitioners also impugn the order dated 11.08.2016 (hereinafter
„the impugned order‟) passed by the Ministry of New and Renewable
Energy, Government of India (hereinafter „MNRE‟) blacklisting the
petitioners and debarring them from participating in any of the
Schemes/Programmes of the MNRE for a period of three years. 2. The aforesaid punitive measures have been imposed on the
petitioners on the allegation that the petitioners had indulged in
"malpractices" in submission of their tenders for Solar Power Projects
under Phase-II of the National Solar Mission to NTPC. According to
NTPC, the petitioners have indulged in „corrupt or fraudulent practices‟
and the action taken against them is warranted in terms of the "Fraud
Prevention Policy" of NTPC. 3. The aforesaid conclusion has been drawn by NTPC for the principal
reason that the bids submitted by both the petitioners were under signatures
of one Mr Manoranjan Ghosh, who was named as one of the authorised
representatives by both the petitioners. This, according to NTPC and
MNRE, established that the petitioners had colluded in submission of their
bids, which fell foul of NTPC‟s Fraud Prevention Policy. 4. The petitioners contest the aforesaid action as arbitrary and
unreasonable. They, inter alia, contend that (a) the petitioners had
withdrawn from the bids much prior to any proceedings being initiated
against them and thus there was no possibility of any loss or damage being
suffered by NTPC/MNRE; (b) that Mr Manoranjan Ghosh was named as
an authorized representative by oversight and there is no other material to
indicate that the petitioners had indulged in fraudulent or corrupt practices; (c) that the action of blacklisting is without any notice and without
affording the petitioners an opportunity of being heard and, therefore, the
impugned order is unsustainable; and (d) that the action initiated against
them is malafide as the petitioners had been asked to extend the validity of
their bids and they have been proceeded against only for the reason that
they had declined to do so. 5. Briefly stated, the relevant facts necessary to address the controversy
are as under:- Connectivity within the period as specified under the RFS. 5.9 NTPC responded to the aforesaid letters clarifying that in terms of
the Amendment no.6 to the RFS documents, the successful bidders were
required to submit CTU/STU regarding Grid-Connectivity only at the time
of financial closure, which was to be achieved in seven months after
signing of the Power Projects Agreement. 5.10 The petitioners responded to NTPC by separate letters dated
31.05.2016 reiterating their decision not to extend the validity of their bids
given the uncertainty regarding Grid-Connectivity and the current solar
market. 5.11 Thereafter, NTPC sent an email to Emami informing it that NTPC
was receiving positive response from other bidders who had agreed to
extend the validity of their bids and once again requesting Emami to
reconsider its decision not to extend the validity of its bid upto 01.08.2016. 5.12 Thereafter, on 02.06.2016, the General Manager (Vigilance) of
NTPC sent separate emails to both the petitioners seeking clarifications
regarding whether Emami & OSAPL had common ownership and/or were
group companies and whether submission of bids through common
representative amounted to „collusive practice‟. 5.13 The petitioners were also informed that the matter had been reported
for investigation under the Fraud Prevention Policy. 5.14 The petitioners responded to the aforesaid letters clarifying that
Emami and OSAPL neither had any common ownership nor were group
companies as defined in Clause 2 of RFS. Emami also clarified that Mr
Manoranjan Ghosh was a non-executive Director of Emami and had been
nominated as the authorized signatory as it was the usual practice of
Emami to authorise two persons including one being a Director of the
company. Emami also informed NTPC that in a subsequent meeting held
on 28.12.2015, it had resolved that in the event Emami was selected for
reverse auction, Mr Manoranjan Ghosh would not participate in the same
on behalf of Emami. 5.15 Thereafter, on 15.06.2016, without any further notice, NTPC
invoked and encashed the bank guarantees furbished by the petitioners.
The information regarding the same was furnished to the petitioners by
their respective banks. 5.16 On 18.06.2016, Emami addressed a letter to NTPC requesting for
disclosure of the grounds on which the bank guarantees submitted by it
were forfeited. 5.17 OSAPL also sent a letter dated 20.06.2016, protesting against
encashment of its bank guarantees without communicating any reasons or
affording any opportunity. 5.18 NTPC responded to the letters dated 18.06.2016 and 20.06.2016 sent
by Emami and OSAPL, by similarly worded letter dated 04.07.2016,
stating that "certain violations in pursuance to the provisions of RFS
document were observed" during evaluation of the bids and after
examining facts including the explanation provided by the petitioners to
the Vigilance Department, their bids had been rejected and their EMD had
been forfeited. NTPC also stated that it reserved the right to take further
action. 5.19 The petitioners by separate letters requested that the decision to
invoke bank guarantees be reviewed. However, the said request was not
acceded to. 5.20 Thereafter, on 11.08.2016, MNRE issued the impugned order
blacklisting the petitioners. The said order indicates that the petitioners
had been blacklisted as it was reported by NTPC that they had "indulged in
malpractices in the tenders for Solar Power Projects by NTPC under Phase-
II of National Solar Mission". Submissions 6. Mr Parag Tripathi, learned senior counsel appearing for Emami
contended that Mr Manoranjan Ghosh being the signatory for both Emami
and OSAPL, at best, indicated the two petitioners had knowledge of each
other‟s bid; however, that was of no consequence as the purpose of the
stage-I bid was only to determine the number of bidders, who would W.P.(C) 7493/2016 & 9511/2016 Page 7 of 30 qualify for reverse auction. He submitted that there was no material to
indicate that any loss had been incurred by NTPC and, therefore, the
invocation of Emami‟s bank guarantees was wholly unjustified. He also
referred to the Fraud Prevention Policy of NTPC, which defined the term
„Fraud‟ and submitted that in terms of the said policy it was necessary that
the act alleged to be „fraud‟ must have resulted in a wrongful gain to the
person committing the fraud or to any other individual and consequently a
loss to others. He submitted that in absence of any material to indicate that
having a common signatory had resulted any gain to Emami or OSAPL or
any loss to NTPC, the action of invoking the bank guarantees could not be
sustained. He also referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in Union
of India v. Rampur Distillery & Chemical Co.Ltd . : ( 1973) 1 SCC 649 and
Kailash Nath Associates v. DDA & Anr : (2015) 4 SCC 136 in support of
his contention that NTPC was not entitled to encash the bank guarantees as
it had not suffered any loss or damage on account of any breach alleged to
have been committed by Emami. 7. Mr Tripathi, assailed the impugned order by contending that MNRE
had no jurisdiction in the matter as the tenders had been floated by NTPC.
Further, no show cause notice had been served on Emami and thus, the
impugned order was in gross violation of principles of natural justice. He
referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in Gorkha Security Services
v. Govt. (NCT of Delhi ): (2014) 9 SCC 105 in support of his contention.
He emphasised that neither NTPC nor MNRE had informed the petitioners
of the proposed action of blacklisting. 8. Next, Mr Tripathi submitted that naming Mr Manoranjan Ghosh as
an authorized signatory was an obvious error. Both the petitioners, W.P.(C) 7493/2016 & 9511/2016 Page 8 of 30 namely, Emami and OSAPL had prepared their bids separately and
submitted their bids separately. However, since Mr Manoranjan Ghosh
had vast experience in the Power Sector and was also a non-executive
Director of Emami, he had been named as one of the two authorized
representatives. He submitted that this was neither fraudulent nor a corrupt
practice as alleged. He also submitted that since the Emami had declined to
extend its bid, therefore, the allegation that Emami and OSAPL were
colluding for causing any wrongful gain to themselves or loss to NTPC,
was unsustainable. 9. Mr Triparthi also submitted that in the given facts, the punishment
imposed on Emami was highly disproportionate and was liable to be set
aside on that ground alone. He referred to the decision of the Supreme
Court in Kulja Industries Limited v. Chief General Manager W.T. Proj .
BSNL and Ors. : AIR 2014 SC 9 in support of his contention. 10. Lastly, Mr Tripathi referred to various clauses of the RFP and
emphasised that it was admitted by NTPC that Emami and OSAPL were
not group companies as defined under Clause 2 of RPF and, therefore,
there was no prohibition for the two companies to submit their separate
bids. He further submitted that Emami had relied on the financial strength
of three companies - Diwakar Viniyog Ltd., Suntrack Commerce Ltd. and
Bhanu Vuyapar Limited - for meeting the net worth criteria and had
provided complete details of the shareholding of the said companies.
However, no objection was taken in this regard at the material time. He
referred to Clause 3.31, Clause 3.32 and Clause 3.25(a) of the RFS
documents and argued that the necessary ingredients of the said clauses
were not satisfied and, therefore, none of the said clauses were applicable. 11. Mr Arjun Pant, learned counsel appearing on behalf of OSAPL also
advanced contentions similar to those canvassed by Mr Tripathi. 12. Ms Pinky Anand, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the
respondents countered the submissions made on behalf of the petitioners.
She submitted that although Emami and OSAPL were not group
companies as defined in Clause 2 of RFS, the said companies were related.
She referred to the shareholding pattern of Emami and OSAPL to indicate
that some shares of Emami Agrotech Limited, which held 49.99% in
OSAPL, were held by certain shareholders of Emami. She submitted that
having a common signatory for submission of the bids itself amounted to
fraud and a collusive practice. She submitted that not only the technical
details of the bids but as well as the price details of Emami and OSAPL
were known to each other as they had a common representative. She
submitted that the contention that the first stage was only to determine the
number of bidders eligible to participate in the reverse auction was not
correct because if a successful bidder refused to participate in the reverse
auction, its price bid would be taken as a final bid price. 13. She submitted that both Emami and OSAPL had submitted their bids
with unclean hands in order to reduce their chances of elimination in
ranking and short listing for reverse auction and to increase their
probability of selection and thereby depriving NTPC to establish a bid
price at a competitive level by free and open competition. She contended
that merely because the petitioners had withdrawn from the reverse auction
would not justify the contention that no loss had been occasioned to NTPC
as bidders were required to maintain fairness in the entire bidding process.
She also referred to the various clauses of RFP. She contended that there W.P.(C) 7493/2016 & 9511/2016 Page 10 of 30 was ample material to establish that Emami and OSAPL had colluded with
each other. She also referred to Clauses 3.31 and 3.32 of RFS and
contended that the practice followed by Emami and OSAPL fell squarely
within the definition of fraud under the Fraud Prevention Policy. 14. She contended that no separate notice was required for blacklisting
the petitioners as the same was inbuilt in the provisions of the contract.
She contended that clause 3.31(c) of the RFS expressly provided that a
firm will be declared ineligible either indefinitely or for a stated period of
time if it is found that the said firm is engaged in corrupt or fraudulent
practices. She emphasised that the use of the word „will‟ left no room for
doubt that punitive measures would be taken if the bidders were found to
have indulged in fraudulent practice. She submitted that opportunity was
given by the Vigilance Department of the NTPC to the petitioners to
provide explanation as to their conduct and, therefore, the principles of
natural justice were duly followed. 15. Although, in the written submissions filed on behalf of NTPC, it is
submitted that encashment of bank guarantees were a natural consequence
of rejection of bid on the ground of collusive practice. It is further stated
that loss is inbuilt in a case of fraudulent or collusive bidding. It is also
stated that various reports and articles available in internet state that fraud,
corruption, unethical practices in public procurement enhances the overall
cost of procurement by 10% to 30%. It is also stated in the written
submissions that had the fraudulent or collusive act of Emami and OSAPL
been detected after reverse auction, NTPC would have no option but to
annul the tender and the whole process would have taken another four
months leading to financial loss to other bidders. Further, the fraud was W.P.(C) 7493/2016 & 9511/2016 Page 11 of 30 detected after signing of the PPA, the contract would have to be terminated
and this would have resulted in loss to NTPC of the trading margin of 7
paisa per KWH, which would amount to `0.377 crores for 10 MW Solar
Power Project and `1.5 crores per annum for 40 MW Solar Power Project.
No such contentions were advanced during oral arguments. Reasoning and Conclusion 16. At the outset, it is relevant to observe that both the encashment of
the bank guarantees and the impugned order are premised on the basis that
the petitioners have indulged in "fraudulent practices". The said actions -
that is, invoking the bank guarantees and debarring the petitioners - have
been taken as punitive measures. 17. The first and foremost question to be addressed is whether the
procedure followed by NTPC/MNRE for encashment of the bank
guarantees and blacklisting the petitioners is in conformity with the
principles of natural justice. 18. Undisputedly, blacklisting an entity or debarring the entity from
entering in a contract with the State is stigmatic and casts a slur on the
entity. In Erusian Equipment & Chemicals Ltd v. State of West Bengal &
Another : AIR 1975 SC 266, the Supreme Court had observed as under:- 19. In Gorkha Security Services v. Government (NCT of Delhi) & Ors. (supra), the Supreme Court had noted that blacklisting was also described
as a "civil death" of the person who is imposed with such punitive
measure. The relevant extract of the said decision is as under:- 20. In view of the severe adverse consequences that are visited upon an
entity, that it is indisputable that it would be necessary to afford the said
entity a full opportunity to meet the case as set up against such entity. The
learned counsel appearing for the respondents had referred to the decision
of the Supreme Court in Patel Engineering Limited v. Union of India &
Another : (2012) 11 SCC 257 in support of their contention that the
respondents had the executive power to blacklist the petitioners. There can
be no dispute to this proposition. In Patel Engineering Limited v. Union
of India (Supra), the Supreme Court had explained that: 21. It is thus clear that although the State does have the power to
blacklist a supplier/contractor, it is necessary that such power be exercised
in a fair and rational manner and for a legitimate purpose. It is also
necessary that the principles of natural justice as enshrined in Article 14 of
the Constitution of India are duly followed to ensure that such decisions
are not arbitrary and unreasonable. The Supreme Court in Erusian
Equipment & Chemicals Ltd v. State of West Bengal & Another (Supra)
had authoritatively held that fundamentals of fair play required that the
person against whom a blacklisting order is proposed is given full
opportunity to represent his case. 22. In Raghunath Thakur v. State of Bihar : (1989) 1 SCC 229, the
Supreme Court explained the above principle in the following words :- 23. In Gorkha Security Services v. Government of NCT of Delhi &
Ors. (Supra ), the Court emphasized the person against whom blacklisting
order is proposed must be specifically put to notice of such proposed
action. The relevant extract of the said decision is set out below:- 24. Although, it is contended on behalf of the respondents that they have
the executive power to blacklist the petitioners, the respondents also do not
seriously dispute the necessity of a show cause notice; however, they claim
that the said requirement is met by the communication dated 02.06.2016
issued by the Vigilance Department. 25. A plain reading of the letter dated 02.06.2016 indicates that NTPC
had merely asked the petitioners to clarify the following:- 26. The said communication does not purport to be a notice calling upon
the petitioners to show cause as to why punitive action not be imposed
against them. As noticed above, the petitioners were called upon to provide W.P.(C) 7493/2016 & 9511/2016 Page 15 of 30 certain clarifications including whether having a common authorized
representative amounts to "collusive practice". 27. Whilst, there may be some merit in the contention that a finding by
the NTPC that the petitioners had indulged in a fraudulent practice would
lead to action under Clause 3.25(a) of RFS ( that is, forfeiture of EMD) and
debarring under clause 3.31(c) of RFS; there was no imputation that the
petitioners were guilty of "fraudulent practice" as defined under Clause
3.31 of RFS. There was also no specific allegation that the petitioners had
indulged in collusive practice designed to establish bid prices at artificial
noncompetetitive levels and to deprive NTPC of the benefits of free and
open competition. Thus, the letter dated 02.06.2016 did not specifically put
the petitioners to notice of the proposed action. 28. As stated above, the punitive action taken against the petitioners is
two-fold: first, encashment of bank guarantees by NTPC; and second, the
impugned order passed by the MNRE debarring the petitioners. Insofar as
the encashment of bank guarantees is concerned, the letters dated
02.06.2016 did not put Emami or OSAPL to notice that their respective bid
securities were intended to be forfeited. 29. NTPC claims that the encashment of bank guarantees is pursuant to
rejection of bids on account of fraudulent practice. Thus, if NTPC desired
to impose a punitive measure of encashment of bid securities, the least that
was required was for NTPC to have articulated this in a show cause notice.
The petitioners would then have had the opportunity to persuade NTPC not
to do so, inter alia, for the reason that the petitioners were not extending
their offer for bidding. However, since NTPC had not even mentioned any W.P.(C) 7493/2016 & 9511/2016 Page 16 of 30 proposed measure of encashment of bank guarantees, there was no
opportunity for the petitioners to deal with the same. 30. Insofar as the punitive measure of blacklisting the petitioners is
concerned, the petitioners had no notice whatsoever that MNRE was
intending to impose such punitive action on the petitioners. The letter dated
02.06.2016 issued by NTPC seeking clarifications cannot be read as a
substitute for a show cause notice by MNRE. It is submitted on behalf of
the respondents that a blacklisting order by MNRE would necessarily have
to follow once NTPC determines that the petitioners had indulged in
fraudulent practice. The same is not persuasive as the RFS documents do
not contemplate any action by MNRE and there was no occasion for the
petitioners to presume so. 31. In view of the above, this Court is not persuaded to accept that the
punitive measures imposed on the petitioners - that is, encashment of their
bid securities and debarring them from participating in tenders, schemes
/programmes of MNRE for a period of three years - were imposed after
providing the petitioners full opportunity to meet the case set up against
them and after following the principles of natural justice. 32. Although, in view of the conclusion above, it is not necessary to
address the other issues raised in this petition. However, for the purpose of
completeness, it would be apposite to do so. 33. The impugned order does not indicate any reason apart from stating
that the petitioners had indulged in "malpractices". However, the
respondents contend that NTPC‟s letter of 02.06.2016 seeking
clarifications did indicate the allegations against the petitioners. One of the W.P.(C) 7493/2016 & 9511/2016 Page 17 of 30 clarifications sought was whether the petitioners are group companies and
have common ownership. The counter affidavits filed on behalf of MNRE
also indicate that the petitioners are treated as group companies and,
therefore, their bids affirming that neither their parent company/affiliate/ or
group company has submitted a response to RFS is false. According to the
respondents, the same also violated the conditions of the "integrity pact" 34. Article 2 of the RFS defines the terms "affiliate" and "group
company" as under:- Provided that a financial institution, scheduled bank, foreign
 institutional investor, non-banking financial Company, and
 any mutual fund shall not be deemed to be Group Company,
 and its shareholding and the power to direct or cause to be
 directed the management and policies of a Company shall
 not be considered for the purposes of this definition unless it
 is the Project Company or a Member of the Consortium
 developing the Project.‟‟ 35. The respondents also seek to support the encashment of bank
guarantees and the impugned order on the basis that petitioners are
affiliates/group companies. However, during the course of arguments it
was conceded by Ms Pinki Anand, the learned ASG that the petitioners are
neither affiliates nor group companies as defined in Article 2 of RFS. 36. In the counter affidavit filed on behalf of NTPC in W.P. (C)
7493/2016, it has also been unequivocally affirmed that "action of
forfeiture and rejection of bid and other consequent actions have been
taken under clause 3.31, 3.32 and 3.25 (a) of RFS and not on account of
petitioner and OSAPL being a group company". 37. In view of the conceded position that the petitioners are not group
companies, the impugned order - which is supposedly based on the
presumption that petitioners are group companies - cannot be sustained. 38. It is also relevant to mention that the respondents have in their
written submissions indicated the shareholding pattern of certain related
companies. However, once it is accepted that the petitioners are neither
affiliates nor group companies as defined under Article 2 of the RFS, it
would serve little purpose to indicate that certain shareholders had
economic interest in Emami and OSAPL. The same also does not establish
the two petitioners to be alter egos of one another. 39. The next question to be addressed is whether the petitioners have
indulged in fraudulent practices. Clause 3.31(a) of RFS expressly provides
that NTPC requires the bidders to observe highest standard of ethics during
development and operation of Solar Power Projects. Clause (a) of Article
3.31 defines the expression „corrupt practices‟ and „fraudulent practices‟.
Clause (b) of Article 3.31 expressly provides that if it is determined that
the bidder recommended for the award has indulged in corrupt or
fraudulent practices, its proposal of award would be rejected. Further,
clause (c) provides that the NTPC would declare the firm ineligible either
indefinitely or for a stated period of time, it is found that the firm had
indulged in any corrupt or fraudulent practices in competing for or in
executing the development and operation of Solar Power Projects. 40. Article 3.32 of RFS requires the bidder to strictly adhere to the
Fraudulent Prevention Policy of NTPC. Further, Article 3.34 requires
bidder to unconditionally accept the "integrity pact" as per the format
specified in the RFS document. 41. Articles 3.31 and 3.32 are set out below:- 3.32 Fraud Prevention Policy: DEFINITION OF FRAUD
 "Fraud" is a willful act intentionally committed by an
 individual(s) - by deception, suppression, cheating or
 any or any other fraudulent or any other illegal means,
 thereby, causing wrongful gains) to self or any other
 individual(s) and wrongful loss to other(s). Many a
 times such acts are undertaken with a view to
 deceive/mislead others leading them to do or
 prohibiting them from doing a bonafide act or take
 bonafide decision which is not based on material
 facts." 43. A plain reading of the definition of fraud under the "Fraud
Prevention Policy" indicates that for any action to be characterized as
„fraud‟, it is necessary that it fulfills the following conditions: 44. It is also explained in the Fraud Prevention Policy that many a times
such acts are done with a view to deceive/mislead the others. 45. In the present case, the only allegation against the petitioners is that
their bids were submitted under a common signatory. In the circumstances,
it is reasonable to believe that both Emami and OSAPL had knowledge of
each other‟s bids. The petitioners maintain that their bids were independent
and it was an obvious mistake in naming a common signatory. Even if the
said explanation is rejected, it does not necessarily follow that the
petitioners have practiced any deception. NTPC in its reply has also not
been able to establish as to how this had caused any wrongful gain to the
petitioners or any wrongful loss to NTPC or any other competitor. In the
written submission, which was filed after conclusion of the hearing, it is
contended on behalf of NTPC, that submission of such bids had reduced
the chances of the elimination. This argument is plainly an afterthought as
it does not form a part of any contemporaneous documents. Further, this
contention also assumes that the petitioners are one and the same entity.
However, during the course of arguments it was conceded that the
petitioners are not group companies. Although, some common
shareholding had been established, there is no material to conclude that
petitioners are the one and the same entity. More importantly, this is also
not a conclusion which was drawn by NTPC or MNRE for taking actions,
which are impugned herein. 46. Since, the petitioners are not „affiliates‟ or „group companies‟ as
defined under Article 2 of the RFS, there was no prohibition for both the
petitioners submitting their separate bids. The only allegation against them
is that their bids were known to each other. This plainly cannot by itself
lead to the conclusion that there was any wrongful gain resulting to the
petitioners or any wrongful loss caused to any other person. There is also
no material to indicate that the bids were submitted to mislead or deceive W.P.(C) 7493/2016 & 9511/2016 Page 24 of 30 any person or persons leading them to do or prohibiting them from doing
any bonafide act or taking any bonafide decision. 47. It is important to note that the communication dated 02.06.2016,
which according to the respondents was a show cause notice, sought
clarification on two points: (i) whether the petitioners had common
ownership and were group companies; and (ii) whether submission of their
bids through common authorized representative amounted to "collusive
practice". Insofar as the petitioners being under common ownership and/or
group companies is concerned, it was conceded during the course of
arguments that Emami and OSAPL are not group companies even though
some of the shareholders of Emami are also shareholders of Emami
Agroteh Private Ltd, which owns less than 50% shares of OSAPL. Thus,
the only allegation against the petitioners is that they had indulged in
collusive practice, which constitutes a fraudulent practice in terms of
clause 3.31 (a)(ii). 48. A plain reading of clause 3.31 (a)(ii) of RFS indicates that a
collusive practice as referred therein means a practice designed to establish
bid prices at artificial non-competitive levels and to deprive NTPC of the
benefits of free and open competition. 49. In the facts of the present case, there is no material to establish that
submission of bids through common representative was designed to
establish bid prices at artificial non-competitive levels. No allegation to
this effect was made at the relevant time. Further, merely because two out
of several bidders are aware of each other‟s bids at the qualifying stage
does not lead to the conclusion that there would not be free and open
competition amongst competitors. The expression "collusive practice" 50. Although, the respondents also claim that there was an
agreement/arrangement between the petitioners to cartelize, however
merely because the initial bids made by the petitioners were known to each
other does not establish that they had entered into an anticompetitive
agreement or arrangement to establish prices at anticompetitive levels.
There is no material to establish any agreement to rig the bids or make
collusive bids that fall foul of section 3 of the Competition Act 2002. In the
facts of the case it is difficult to accept that having a common
representative established that the petitioners had indulged in any
fraudulent practice. 51. The next question to be considered is whether NTPC had suferred
any loss which would justify encashment of bank guarantees. Plainly,
NTPC has been unable to establish that it has incurred any loss on account
of the bids submitted by the petitioners. The offers made by the petitioners
were not accepted by NTPC during the term of their validity, and thus, the
question of NTPC suffering any loss on account of the bids submitted by
the petitioners does not arise. Further, no arguments were advanced on
behalf of the respondents to counter the submission that NTPC had neither
suffered nor could have suffered any loss on account of the bids submitted W.P.(C) 7493/2016 & 9511/2016 Page 26 of 30 by the petitioners. However, in the written submissions filed on behalf of
NTPC after the conclusion of the arguments, it has been contended that
various research reports/articles on the internet suggest that
fraud/corruption/unethical practices in public procurement enhances the
cost of procurement by 10 to 30 percent. According to NTPC, it would
have suffered a loss of 21.20 crores if the petitioners had been successful in
the technical evaluation stage and their fraud had not been detected. It is
further contended that if the fraud had been detected after issuance of the
letter of intent, the respondents would have suffered a loss of
approximately 1.50 crores computed as loss of trading margin of 7 Paisa
Per Kwh. 52. The said contentions cannot be accepted for several reasons. First of
all, there are no pleadings to support the above contentions. Further, no
such contentions were in fact advanced during the course of arguments and
have been slipped in the written submissions filed after conclusion of the
hearing. Lastly and more importantly, these contentions are wholly bereft
of any merit. The loss as claimed is plainly illusory. Indisputably, the
respondents have not suffered any loss. It is also relevant to state that no
communication rejecting the bids was issued to the petitioners prior to the
expiry of the validity of the bids. The first communication indicating that
NTPC had rejected the bids was issued on 04.07.2016 much after the
validity of the bids had expired. The NTPC had made their efforts to
persuade the petitioners to extend their validity of the bids which the
petitioners had declined. Since, the offer was neither rejected nor accepted
during the term of its validity, the question of forfeiture of EMD does not
arise. 53. Admittedly, the respondents were not in a position to complete the
bidding process during the period of validity of the bids. Although, NTPC
had attempted to persuade the petitioners to extend the validity of their
offer, the petitioners had declined to do so. Thus, there is no question of
NTPC suffering any loss on account of the bids submitted by the
petitioners. The bank guarantees have been invoked as a punitive measure,
which this Court finds is not warranted. 54. In Kulja (supra), the Supreme Court had laid down the guidelines
for any action of blacklisting. The factors that are necessary to be
considered by the authority imposing the punitive measure were
summarised as follows:- 55. It is apparent that the above factors were neither considered by
NTPC nor MNRE. 56. Before concluding, it is necessary to observe that there is no order
that has been passed by either NTPC or MNRE specifically dealing with
the contentions advanced by the petitioners. This is perhaps for the reason
that no specific show cause notice had been issued to the petitioners by
NTPC or MNRE. Even if it is accepted - which this Court does not - that
the letter dated 02.06.2016 seeking certain clarifications was a show cause
notice as contended by NTPC, the same did not culminate is a reasoned
order. Admittedly, the petitioners had responded to the said notices. It was
thus incumbent on NTPC to specifically deal with the same and pass an
appropriate order. However, no such order was communicated to the
petitioners which specifically dealt with the contentions raised by the
petitioners in their defence. 57. As noticed above, the impugned order merely states that the
petitioners have indulged in malpractices. The said order is bereft of any
reasons and thus cannot be sustained. The counter affidavits filed on behalf
of the NTPC and MNRE seek to set up a case and provide explanations
that are otherwise not available in the contemporaneous documents.
Further, the written submissions filed after the hearing was concluded seek
to further improve the case, which was set up in the counter affidavits or
argued before this Court. Plainly, this cannot be countenanced. Blacklisting
an entity is a serious matter and it is incumbent upon the authority
blacklisting any entity to not only provide sufficient opportunity to the
concerned party but pass a speaking and reasoned order clearly dealing
with the contentions advanced. 58. In view of the above, the impugned order is set aside. The
respondents are directed to refund the amount recovered from the
petitioners by encashment of their bank guarantees within a period of two
weeks from today. 59. The petitions are allowed. All the pending applications are disposed
of. The parties are left to bear their own costs. VIBHU BAKHRU, J
JANUARY 03, 2018
MK/pkv W.P.(C) 7493/2016 & 9511/2016 Page 30 of 30