Around 2 years ago i was using connect broadband [protected]. But only after using 20 days i contacted them about slow speed and broadband shutting down every 2 hour and told them to deactivate my broadband. So i got a call from their office that i can not deactivate my broadband before 2 months o[censored]sing. So after 2 months i again contacted them that i want to disconnect my broadband. After 4-5 days a man came from their office, named parveen. He told that my connection has been deactivated and asked me to give modem/router with the bill and i gave him both. But next month i got an email with a bill from connect and it kept happening for next 3 months. I was still getting a bill even though i had disconnected my broadband. So i again contacted them about how i was getting the bill without any reason. The girl on the line said that i will not get the bill from next time. And it stopped. But after 1 year i got a call from connect that my rs.2800 bill is pending. And then i got a letter from the court that connect has filed a case against me. I contacted the advocate, whose no. Was given on letter and told him about everything. He told me to visit connect office and tell them about this. I contacted parveen (I had his no.) and he told me that my broadband has been disconnected and ignore all the calls from them because they do this with everyone to loot their money. Then i visited their office in sector 35 too and told them about this. They asked me to give them the receipt for the bill which i gave to parveen. But who will save a receipt after 1 year. But i showed them the recording of the call with parveen (Confirming that he has taken bill and router). Everything got settled after that. But now today, again after 7-8 month from the office incident and around (2 years after giving the bill) i got a call from an advocate that my bill is pending. Below i have attached a screenshot of email which i got after 4 months of disconnecting. Even in their last email, they have mentioned 1800 bill and now they are asking for 2800. I have paid all my bills and they have generated wrong bills and filed the wrong case against me.