The petitioners are before this Court calling in question order

dated 23-12-2021 passed by the I Additional Chief Metropolitan

Magistrate, Bengaluru in Crime No.256 of 2021 whereby the

amount from the personal account of the 1st petitioner is

transferred to the account of the 2nd respondent. 2. Brief facts that lead the petitioners to this Court, as borne

out from the pleadings, are as follows:- 3. The 2nd petitioner maintains a bank account with

respondent No.3/Yes Bank Limited ('Nodal Account Bank' for short),

a Banking Company established under the Companies Act, 1956 .

The Nodal Account Bank is expected to carry out business for the

nodal account holder i.e., PhonePe which is for a special purpose

created for receiving monies from the participating Banks and

remitting to specific merchants, in terms of the Reserve Bank of

India mandate. The 2nd petitioner is thus an intermediary receiving

on line payments and those payments getting into nodal account

and payments to the seller moving out from the nodal account

instantaneously. 4. The 2nd respondent one Ms. Madhuri R.K. attempts to order

some items online through her bank account on 02.04.2021 and in

order to enquire about the order, contacts customer care of e-

commerce app on the number obtained on Google website. On

doing so, an unknown person appears to have fraudulently

gathered the bank account details of the 2nd respondent and falling

prey to such fraud, the 2nd respondent transfers a sum of

Rs.69,143/- to the said unknown person not by one but through 6 fifteen transactions. All the transactions were collect requests

which were approved by the 2nd respondent. A complaint then

comes to be registered on 03-04-2021 and a Cyber Crime Incident

Report (CCIR) comes to be filed by the 2nd respondent reporting

such online financial fraud/UPI fraud with suspect name as Amith

Mishra and suspect's phone number was also provided by the 2nd

respondent. 5. Upon receipt of the complaint from the 2nd respondent, the

1st respondent North CEN Police sent an e-mail to the cyber cell of

the Nodal Account Bank i.e., Yes Bank to freeze the account

belonging to the 2nd petitioner i.e., PhonePe and sought certain

information which included the statement of account; closing

balance statement and Linked ID card/KYC details. Upon receipt of

the request from the Police, the Yes Bank followed the instructions

and provided the information that was sought for. At this point in

time, while furnishing information, the linked bank account leads to

the account number of petitioner No.1. Later, the 2nd

respondent/complainant files an application on 27-05-2021 with the

1st respondent informing them about the transaction that took place 7 on 02-04-2021 and on receipt of the said information an FIR comes

to be registered for offences punishable under Sections 66C and 66D of the Information Technology Act, 2000 against unknown

person. 6. Respondent No.2 who had her account in ICICI Bank files

an application before the concerned Court invoking Sections 451 and 457 of the CrPC praying to defreeze the personal account of the

1st petitioner and transfer the amount to the account of the 2nd

respondent. The Investigating Officer submits his no objection and

by an order dated 23-12-2021 the learned magistrate disposed of

the application by issuing a direction to defreeze the account of the

1st petitioner and transfer the amount of Rs.69,143/- from his

personal account to the account of the 2nd respondent. After such

transfer, the 1st petitioner comes to know that the amounts have

been debited from his personal account and sought details from the

4th respondent to whom the amount was transferred. It is then the

1st petitioner comes to know that the amount has been transferred

to the account of the 2nd respondent upon an order passed by the 8 learned Magistrate. No alternatives being available, the petitioners

have knocked the doors of this Court in the subject petition. 7. Heard Sri Nitin Ramesh, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioners, Sri K.S.Abhijith, learned High Court Government

Pleader appearing for respondent No.1 and Sri Vikram Unni

Rajagopal, learned counsel appearing for respondent No.3. 8. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioners would

contend that the complainant had indicated who the suspect is. If

at all the amount had to be recovered, it had to be from the hands

of the suspect. The 1st petitioner is not an aggregator like other

platforms. The 2nd petitioner is only a mediator through whom

payments move but no money is retained with the Company and

above all, the personal account of the 1st petitioner could not have

been frozen and the amount of Rs.69,143/- transferred to the

complainant. He would submit that the entire process smacks of

arbitrariness. Deliberate misuse of power is conferred upon the

Police to freeze the account and erroneous order is passed by the

learned Magistrate without even verifying any of the details. He 9 would seek quashment of the order and refund of the entire amount

to the hands of the 1st petitioner with costs. 9. On the other hand, the learned High Court Government

Pleader would seek to refute the submissions to contend that

admittedly there had been fraud played in the account. Therefore,

an application is filed by the complainant when her money is lost.

Since money is routed through PhonePe, it is the PhonePe which

becomes responsible for generation of the transaction as in several

cases such intermediaries have indulged in such frauds as a result

of which many people have lost their money. Therefore, the Court

should not interfere with the order that is passed. 10. The representatives of the Bank would only submit that

they are formal parties and whatever the Police have directed, it

was faithfully implemented by the Bank. 11. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and perused the material

on record. 12. The afore-narrated facts are not in dispute and therefore

not reiterated. The 2nd petitioner is a Unified Payment Interface

platform. All such UPI platforms are not owned by them. They are

owned by the National Payments Corporation of India ('NPCI' for

short) and legally the petitioners are considered as third party

application provider by the NPCI or a system provider. In effect,

regardless of different nomenclatures under different enactments,

the UPI service providing entities like the 2nd petitioner/PhonePe

have the status of intermediaries as obtaining under the Information Technology Act, 2000 (' IT Act ' for short). Section 79 of

the IT Act protects the intermediaries to the extent as obtaining

under the provision. Section 79 of the IT Act reads as follows: Explanation.-For the purposes of this section, the
 expression "third party information" means any information
 dealt with by an intermediary in his capacity as an
 intermediary". Section 79 (supra) directs that notwithstanding anything contained

in any law, an intermediary shall not be liable for any third party

information, data or communication link made available or hosted

by him and application of the provision is in terms of what is 12 observed in the provision itself. The intermediary would not become

liable if the intermediary has not initiated the transmission, selected

the receiver of the transmission or selected or modified any

information contained in the transmission. The expression third

party information under Section 79 of the IT Act is explained to be

information dealt with by the intermediary in the capacity as an

intermediary. 13. It is not in dispute that the 2nd petitioner is an

intermediary and the 1st petitioner is the whole time Director of the

2nd petitioner. A transaction is made by the 2nd respondent, online,

for an amount of Rs.69,143/- with one suspect Amith Mishra. The

payment is routed through "PhonePe". It appears that the said

Amith Mishra turns out to be a fraud and the amount so transacted

becomes a fraudulent transaction. An e-mail is sent by the 2nd

respondent to the cyber cell reporting the incident of such UPI

fraud. Pursuant to the e-mail so sent by the 2nd respondent, the

nodal account of PhonePe was directed to be freezed. Later the 13 complainant registers a complaint before the jurisdictional Police

informing them about the transaction that took place on

02.04.2021, pursuant to which, a crime comes to be registered

against unknown person in Crime No.256 of 2021. While

registering the crime, the CCIR is also placed on record. In the

CCIR the suspect details are also forthcoming. The name of the

suspect is Amith Mishra and the number of the suspect is also

indicated. 14. After registration of crime and freezing of nodal account,

an application is filed by the 2nd respondent/complainant before the

concerned Court under Sections 451 and 457 of the CrPC claiming

that the amount she has lost should be refunded to her by

defreezing the nodal account. The learned Magistrate directs

defreezement of the account and transfer of money to the account

of the complainant. It is only then that the 1st petitioner comes to

know that his account was frozen, later the account was de-frozen,

an amount of Rs.69,143/- is debited from his personal account and

transferred to the account of 2nd respondent held at ICICI Bank. It

is not that the 1st petitioner was intimated about the debit from his 14 account by any authority. When he noticed the debit transaction in

his account he got to know link in the chain of events and comes to

know that it is pursuant to the order passed by the learned

Magistrate. 15. One glaring factor is that both the petitioners are not the

accused; though for freezing of account one need not be an

accused. It is only money trail that leads to suspicion as also

freezing of account. Therefore nobody need be heard as Section

102 of the Cr.P.C. empowers Investigating Agency to direct freezing

of account within its sweep. The case at hand is not of that kind. 16. It not a case even where the suspect is not known. The

name of the suspect is intimated in CCIR and also phone number of

the suspect is indicated. The investigation ought to have been

made for unearthing the fraud qua the alleged fraudster. The

complainant files an application before the concerned Court seeking

recovery of money and from the personal account of 1st petitioner

the amount is directed to be transferred by the order of the learned

Magistrate. The order passed on the application reads as follows: 15 The petitioner by name Madhuri R.K. has filed recent
application to direct the I.O. to defreeze the bank account
No.05231140029395, HDFC Bank and transfer the freezed
amount to the account of the petitioner. According to the petitioner, during the course of
investigation, the IO has freezed the above said account. The
petitioner is the complainant and the freezed amount
belonging to the petitioner and there is no claim by others.
The seized amount is very much necessary and required by
the petitioner for her necessities. The petitioner is ready and
willing to abide by any conditions that may be imposed by this
Court and sought to allow the present application. On the said application, the report from the I.O. is
called for and the I.O. has submitted the report, stating that
he has no objection to release the freezed amount ini favour of
the petitioner on conditions. Learned Senior APP has filed objections
 Heard arguments of both sides. After hearing the arguments and perusal of the
records reveals that the amount seized by the I.O. by
freezing the account belongs to the accused and there is
no rival claim by others. Therefore, the petitioner has
made out grounds to allow the present application.
Therefore, in view of the above, it is just and proper to
allow the application filed by the petitioner.
Accordingly, I proceed to pass the following: 17. In the entire process the 1st petitioner from whose

account the amount is transferred is not even heard in the matter.

Though the Court notices that the amount belongs to the victim/

complainant, which accused is even known and there are no rival

claimants, if notice is not issued to the account holder from whom

debit is sought, there cannot be a rival claim. This rudimentary fact

is given a go-bye by the learned Magistrate. The application under Sections 451 and 457 of the Cr.P.C. is dealt with by the learned

Magistrate in a casual and cavalier manner. The amount however

small it is, is the property of an individual in whose account, it is

held. Such amount which is a right to property of the account

holder cannot be taken away without even bringing to his

knowledge. There has been a debit from the account of the 1st

petitioner for the purpose of satisfying the complainant. While the

right of a complainant is to be looked into, since the complainant is

a victim of a fraud, but the investigation cannot be cut short

without unearthing the fraud and closing the issue, by transfer of 18 amount from a third party, in the case at hand, from the personal

account of the 1st petitioner. All the factors will have to be borne in

mind by the Magistrates while dealing with an application under Sections 451 and 457 Cr.P.C. Therefore, the impugned order, on

the face of it, is arbitrary and cannot stand the scrutiny of law. 18. This Court is coming across scores and scores of cases

where the account is frozen, defrozen and the amount that the

complainant is due from a suspect or an accused is transferred to

the account of the complainant from the account of third parties

which action is contrary to all cannons of law. It has therefore,

become necessary for this Court to direct the learned Magistrates

that while dealing with applications under Sections 451 and 457 of

the Cr.P.C., particularly in cases where it involves intermediaries

like the petitioners, to hear those intermediaries and then direct

transfer of the amount, and not allow the application filed under Sections 451 and 457 of the Cr.P.C in a casual manner. 19. The learned Magistrates are required to note that they are

dealing with the properties of third parties. Decision on an 19 application under Sections 451 and 457 Cr.P.C. cannot become a

frolicsome act on the part of the learned Magistrates merely

because it is subject to indemnity. It is not the question of security

but it is the question of right to property of an individual, from

whose account the money is transferred without any information to

him. Therefore, the learned Magistrates while considering the

applications of the kind shall notice the following: 20. Freezing of account in terms of Section 102 of the Cr.P.C.

is a power that is available, but if the amount is sought to be

transferred to any other account, the account holder whose account

is frozen or de-frozen for the purpose of transfer of the amount 20 shall be heard. The learned Magistrates considering the applications

under Sections 451 and 457 of the Cr.P.C. shall bear in mind the

aforesaid directions, while passing orders under the said provisions,

only in the cases of the kind aforementioned. In the light of the

preceding analysis, the purpose of Section 79 of the IT Act is not

gone into. The contentions remain open. 21. For the aforesaid reasons, I pass the following: (ii) The amount debited from the account of the 1st
 petitioner shall be refunded to his account forthwith. (iii) The 1st respondent is directed to pursue the
 investigation pursuant to the complaint of the 2nd
 respondent registered in Crime No.256 of 2021 dated
 27-05-2021. (iv) Registry is directed to circulate the order to all the
 Magistrates. Sd/- JUDGE
bkp
CT:MJ