In the above writ petitions, the petitioners

 are challenging the action of respondents

 accepting the financial instrument other than

 bank draft for the purpose of application fees

 and 10% earnest money of the license fees for

 considering the case of private respondents for

 the grant of licence under the Rajasthan Excise

 Act, 1954 (in short, to be called "the Act" 2 provides that 10% earnest money shall be

deposited along with the application and the

earnest money which will be 10% of the annual

licence fee of the relevant group shall also be

annexed along with the application in the form of

demand draft drawn in favour of the concerned

District Excise Officer; and, if the applicant is

selected for licence, the earnest money deposited

shall be adjusted against the security deposit.

It is also made clear that 1% of the licence fee

deposited along with the application form is not

refundable whereas 10% of the earnest money of

the annual licence fee will be refundable if the

applicant is not selected; meaning thereby, as

per the procedure for grant of licence of

wholesale/retail group, 1% application fee is not

refundable whereas 10% earnest money is

refundable to those applicants who do not succeed

to get the licence whereas 10% earnest money of

the selected applicant shall be adjusted against

the security deposit. The case of the petitioner is that in

Sriganganagar district where the petitioner

applied he was allotted No.11 for participating

in the process of lottery. Respondent No.5

along with certain other persons, one of them

being Vijendra Singh also applied for grant of 6 licence in Sriganganagar district as well as for

other districts. Respondent No.5 Hastimal, in

all, submitted 5 applications and Vijendra Singh

submitted 3 applications; but, respondent No.5

along with his application did not annex any

demand draft as required under the conditions of

the application form but annexed cheques for the

amount of 1% application fees, therefore, the

applications of respondent No.5 were not only

bereft of demand draft as required under the

conditions of the application form but also

contained cheques which were not drawn on his

account but were drawn on the account of one

Adarsh Credit Cooperative Society Ltd. The case of the petitioner is that every

application was required to be supported by the

demand draft and there is no provision in the

terms and conditions to accept any cheque or other instrument but respondent No.5 filed 5 applications and along with those applications,

he has annexed the cheques, therefore, his

chances of getting the licence enhanced

considerably whereas the chances of those

applicants, including the petitioner, who filed

proper applications along with demand draft

diminished. The petitioner's case is that at

the time of drawing of the lots when the

petitioner came to know the irregularity

committed by respondent No.5, then, an objection 7 was raised before the District Excise Officer,

Sriganganagar orally as well as to the Excise

Commissioner telephonically; but, the complaint

of the petitioner yielded no result. Therefore,

a copy of the complaint was sent by the

petitioner through FAX to the Excise

Commissioner, in which, he pointed out the

irregularity committed by respondent No.5 during

the draw. In the complaint, it is pointed out by the

petitioner that due to illegal action of the

respondent District Excise Officer all the

legitimate applicants were illegally ousted from

the process by condoning the irregularity of

respondent No.5. The objection which is raised

by the petitioner was thrown in the waste-paper

basket and respondents proceeded to draw the

lottery; and, obviously, in the draw, respondent

No.5 whose chances were enhanced by accepting his

five applications by the respondents without any

demand draft was declared successful for the

groups of shops in Sriganganagar district and the

petitioner was kept in the reserve-list at S.No.1. The case of the petitioner is that, in all,

35 applications were received for the shops in

the Sriganganagar district and, out of those,

five applications were made by respondent No.5

and three applications were made by Vijendra

Singh; and, all these eight applications were 8 supported with cheques instead of demand draft in

contravention of the conditions No.4.2 and 5 of

application form. Therefore, those applications

were to be rejected at the threshold but the

respondent Department has committed an illegality

in permitting the incompetent applicants to

participate in the lottery procedure which

resulted into lesser opportunity to the

petitioner and like persons. In this view of

the matter, the action of the respondents in

permitting incompetent applicants to participate

in the procedure and awarding licence to such

person is totally illegal. Contention of the petitioner is that it is

specifically stipulated under condition No.4.2

that application form shall be accompanied with

demand draft of 1% application fees and,

admittedly, no demand draft was submitted by

respondent No.5 and he filed five applications

and all those five applications were supported by

cheques issued by the Adarsh Credit Cooperative

Society Ltd, which is not permissible under the

condition published by the respondents,

therefore, direction may be issued to respondents

to grant licence to the petitioners because he is

at S.No.1 in the reserve-list and reject all

those applications filed by the private

respondent supported by cheques because it is in

contravention of condition No.4.2 mentioned in 9 the advertisement issued by the respondents

inviting applications. Learned counsel for the petitioner vehemently

argued that bare look at the advertisement will

go to show that the condition for depositing 1%

of the licence fee is provided with the

restriction that it should be in the form of

demand draft only and, admittedly, no demand

draft was deposited by respondent No.5 whose

application is selected after the drawl of the

lottery. Further, it is argued that the

application-fee is non-refundable and the

petitioner has filed the demand draft of

application fee of Rs.6,35,020/-, which is not

refundable. Such condition is a big

discouragement to the non-serious as well as

unscrupulous elements in participating in the

lottery procedure. In condition No.4.2, it is

specifically mentioned that the application fee

is to be deposited by way of demand draft drawn

in favour of the concerned District Excise

Officer. It is contended by learned counsel for

the petitioner that this condition has no room

for any relaxation or interpretation in either

way except that relevant demand draft must

accompany the application form. It is further

contended by learned counsel for the petitioner

that the condition of not refunding 1%

application fees filed along with application 10 forms is meant to impose the condition for

weeding out unnecessary applications and non-

serious applicants because on being unsuccessful

this amount of more than six lakh rupees is not

going to be refunded. According to learned

counsel for the petitioner such condition is

analogous to imposition of penalty because

despite being unsuccessful, the applicant is

deprived of the amount deposited and it is

settled law that any penal statute or policy is

to be interpreted strictly and the provisions

thereof require to be followed strictly; meaning

thereby, the respondent had no jurisdiction to

relax such condition enumerated in the

advertisement because no such power is contained

in the application form or is provided in the

rules. Therefore, the applications of

respondent No.5 accepted by the respondent

department on the basis of cheques is totally

arbitrary and illegal; and, accordingly, this

Court is required to interfere in the matter

under Article 226 of the Constitution of India to

check such type of illegality committed by the

respondents. It is contended by learned counsel for the

petitioner that respondent No.5 has been allowed

to tamper with the process of drawing the lots as

well as said tampering has been condoned by the

official respondents. In this case, respondent 11 No.5 has filed 5 applications and although there

is no bar upon filing more than one applications;

but, in view of the fact that the application fee

is more than approximately six lakh rupees, a

person may not be in a position to apply, as in

this case, by filing five application and paying

the amount five times, therefore, in connivance

with the respondents, by annexing cheques which

are only negotiable instrument drawn on a future

date and not involving any deposit of money

before its drawal, meaning thereby, the

respondents have illegally condoned the mandatory

condition of furnishing demand draft and

permitted respondent No.5 to file 5 applications

supported by cheques whereas the applications of

respondent No.5 which were not accompanied by

demand drafts were to be rejected at the

threshold. But, by fraud and illegality writ

large on the face of record, respondent No.5 was

allowed to file application along with cheque

issued by Adarsh Credit Cooperative Society Ltd.

of the Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. and respondent No.5

was not even asked as to how these cheques will

be drawn by him or were connected with him.

Non-filing of demand draft by respondent No.5 and

acceptance of his applications has infringed the

right of the petitioner of equal protection of

law granted under Article 14 of the Constitution

of India and respondent No.5 has been granted 12 undue advantage. Therefore, the whole

proceedings undertaken by respondent while

accepting the applications which were annexed

with cheques is totally illegal and the

applications filed by respondent No.5 deserved to

be rejected at the very initial stage but

respondent No.5 and Vijendra Singh were given

opportunity to participate in the lottery and,

ultimately, due to increased number of

applications, application of respondent No.5 was

drawn in the lottery, therefore, it is apparent

that large scale fraud has been played by the

respondent No.5 in connivance with the officials

of respondent department. Learned counsel for the petitioner vehemently

argued that Adarsh Credit Cooperative Society

Ltd. is not banking institution; but, respondent

No.5, who is in connivance with the respondents

has propped him up so as to avoid the public

glare and it is only best known to the

respondents that how respondent No.5 came in

possession of the cheques of Adarsh Credit

Cooperative Society Ltd. and how the respondents

overlooked this material aspect despite

objections raised by the petitioner in this

regard; but, the fact remains that due to

action/inaction the right of the petitioner and

like persons of property in business provided

under Article 19 (1) (g) and 300A of the 13 Constitution of India has been denied to the

petitioner while illegally accepting the

application for licence in favour of respondent

No.5 and the petitioner has been deprived from

carrying out his business which is not

permissible in the eye of law. Learned counsel for the petitioner has

invited the attention of this Court towards

judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in

(1979) 3 SCC 489 ( Ramana Dayaram Shetty Vs.

International Airport Authority of India & Ors. )

in which according to learned counsel for the

petitioner, it has been held by Hon'ble Supreme

Court that administrative authorities are bound

by the norms, standards and procedure laid down

by it for others. Disregard to the norm or

standard would invalidate its action unless based

on some valid principle which is neither

irrational or unreasonable nor discriminatory.

The State Government cannot Act arbitrarily in

entering into relationship, contractual or

otherwise with a third party but its action must

conform some standards or norms, which is

rational and non-discriminatory. But, here in

this case, the respondent No.5 has been granted a

special indulgence while accepting his

applications without any demand draft, therefore,

in view of the judgment in case of Ramana Dayaram

Shetty (supra), the action of the respondents 14 accepting the application forms without demand

draft or on the basis of other document then the

demand draft is illegal. So also, there is no

power left with the respondents to relax the said

condition. While citing judgments reported in AIR 2006

SC 2652 (Kuldeep Singh Vs. govt. of NCT of Delhi)

and AIR 2007 SC 119 ( Noble Resources Ltd. Vs.

State of Orissa & Anr. ), it is argued that in the

aforesaid judgments, it has been held by Hon'ble

Supreme Court that in contractual matters the

terms of invitation to tender may not be opened

to judicial scrutiny but Courts can scrutinize

the action of the Government or its agencies in

exercise of their power of judicial review to

prevent arbitrariness or favouritism in granting

contract. For the said purpose, the public

interest may be one of the factors to exercise

power of judicial review. Therefore, it is

prayed by learned counsel for the petitioners

that the procedure adopted by the respondents

while accepting the application forms without

demand draft can be defined as illegal and

arbitrary action, therefore, the petitioners are

entitled for relief as sought for in the writ

petitions and these writ petitions deserve to be

allowed. Per contra, Mr. M.R. Singhvi, learned counsel

appearing for Excise Department first of all 15 raised certain preliminary objections for

dismissing this writ petition. The contention of

learned counsel for the respondent is that this

writ petition is not maintainable because no

legal or fundamental rights of the petitioners

are denied. On the contrary, all the petitioners

were bestowed the equal consideration and their

applications were put into lottery and upon draw

of lottery, it was found in favor of private

respondent, therefore, the respondent Department

has made literal compliance of Article 14 of the

Constitution of India and have not committed any

illegality. Further, it is submitted that totally

incorrect statement has been made by the

petitioner that certain persons have applied

along with the cheques of Rural Bank, which are

not Nationalized Banks nor their head office is

situated at Sri Ganganagar. But in fact, this

assertion is totally incorrect because no cheque

was appended with the application form of the

Rural Banks and in fact as per general notice

dated 10.2.2009 unequivocally and unambiguously

provides that amount shall be deposited along

with the application form by way of demand draft/

pay order in favor of the concerned District

Excise Officer and this fact is available at page

No.25 of the paper book. The applicant was

required to pay application fees which is 16 Rs.6,35,020/- and same was not refundable and in

the same manner 10% earnest money was to be

deposited subject to adjustment in case the

application is accepted against the amount to be

paid by the applicant after acceptance of the

application, otherwise upon rejection of

application, 10% earnest money is refundable.

The above provision was made for the object to

secure the amount of the Government and in the

present case, the amount by way of application

fees was duly secured and has even been encashed

on the basis of the same pay order which were

filed by the applicant along with the application

form, therefore, the decision of the Department

is correct. Learned counsel for the respondent-Department

vehemently argued that this writ petition has

been filed only with a view to cause loss to the

State revenue so as to get this process and

contract frustrated and call upon the State

Government to invite fresh applications and

refund the entire amount of all the applicants

including private respondent. In this case 35

applications were filed and all the applicants

deposited 1% application fees which is not

refundable and 10% earnest money, which is

refundable but now after selection of respondent

No.5, with an oblique motive this writ petition

has been filed on technical ground and it is 17 prayed that process is not in accordance with

law. If such type of plea which is totally

baseless is accepted then certainly in the

present case, the Government is required to

refund Rs.2,22,25,700/- to the respective

applicants. The petitioner has tried to urge

that on account of inclusion of the private

respondent, the number of applicants have

increased which has resulted into diminishing his

chances/reducing his chances but this contention

is totally unfounded because decision taken in

this matter is a matter of policy and the

petitioner cannot dictate the State Government

how to undertake distribution of such kind of

public largess. The method of lottery is quite

just and fair in which all the applicants have

been considered. Thus, it is abundantly clear

that all the applicants were given equal

treatment by the respondent Department,

therefore, scope of judicial enquiry is confined

to the question whether the decision taken by the

Government is against any statutory provisions or

in violative of the fundamental rights of the

citizen or opposed to the provisions of

Constitution of India. In fact, the decision

taken by the Government does not appear to be

agreeable to the Court, still it cannot be

interfered. In the present case, every applicant

was expected to apply and while applying they are 18 required to append with the application a demand

draft of 10% of the stipulated contractual amount

as an earnest money and he was further required

to deposit 1% of the contractual amount which was

not refundable. The substance of the condition

is that Government should be assured that payment

is secured and safe and this aspect was taken

care of by the Government. Therefore, the

petitioner cannot raise voice because his case

was considered and his application was put to the

lottery but unfortunately, he was not selected in

the lottery and now he is raising ground that the

respondent No.5 has filed five applications,

which were not accompanied by demand draft and

the Department has accepted the cheques but in

fact no cheque was filed but pay order issued by

the Adarsh Credit Cooperative Society Ltd. of the

Bank of Rajasthan was affixed by the respondent

No.5 along with all the five applications and

after due enquiry, a conscious decision was taken

by the Department to accept the said mode of

payment, therefore, the decision taken by the

State Government cannot be interfered. More so,

it is admitted position of the case that the

amount in question has already been encashed on

the basis of the pay order/instrument, which is

filed by the respondent No.5 along with his

applications. As per the respondents, Adarsh

Credit Cooperative Society Ltd., who has issued 19 pay order in favor of the District Excise Officer

of the Bank of Rajasthan is a registered Banking

Institution which is duly registered with the

Government of India, Ministry of Agriculture and

Corporation and before accepting the said pay

order, the Department made an enquiry with regard

to the said institution, which is authorized,

entitled and competent to issue such type of bill

of exchange, therefore, simply on the basis of

bald statement of filing only cheques, the

contention of petitioner cannot be accepted. The

petitioner is raising hyper technical ground and

seeking interference of this Court whereas in the

present time of electronic era, various types of

banking method have come into existence and

payment can be made by e-mail, e-banking, online

and cash also. The only requirement is that the

person competent to receive application must be

satisfied that amount involved is duly

safeguarded and secured and in this case before

acceptance, the Department has made an enquiry

and after satisfaction accepted the applications

on the basis of the pay order issued by Adarsh

Credit Cooperative Society Ltd. in which there is

no illegality committed by the respondent

Department, therefore, these writ petitions

deserve to be dismissed. Learned counsel for the respondents

vehemently argued that action of the respondents 20 cannot be treated as non compliance of the terms

of the application form. The Adarsh Credit

Cooperative Society Ltd. upon enquiry assured

that the Society is prepared to make payment of

the bill of exchange, which is pay order, as and

when presented to it, therefore, the pay orders

are not unknown phenomena but are documents akin

to banker's drafts for current use frequently

obtained by customers for making payments to

Government Department. Therefore, no illegality

has been committed by the respondent Department

while accepting the pay order filed by the

respondent No.5 along with application form.

Learned counsel for the respondent vehemently

argued that this writ petition suffers from non-

joinder of necessary party because the petitioner

is challenging the credibility, competence and

authority of Adarsh Credit Cooperative Society

Ltd., therefore, the said Society is necessary

party and in absence of said society, the writ

petition is not maintainable. Further, it is

pointed out by learned counsel for the

respondents that on one hand, the petitioner

without any pleading raising voice with regard to

status of Adarsh Credit Cooperative Society Ltd.

but on the other hand in reply to the preliminary

objections raise in para No.10 of the preliminary

objections, it is specifically stated by the

petitioner that the preliminary objections are 21 denied and further it is stated that there is no

challenge to the credibility, competence and

authority of the Adarsh Credit Cooperative

Society Ltd. but challenge has been made to the

illegal action of the respondent-Department,

therefore, the Adarsh Credit Cooperative Society

Ltd. is not a necessary party. Hence, the

preliminary objection is not tenable. Learned counsel for the respondent Department

as well as learned counsel for the respondent

No.5 vehemently argued that this writ petition

has been filed on hyper technical ground that the

respondents have accepted the application forms

without any demand draft but in the terms and

conditions of the application form in para

No.4.2, it was specifically mentioned that the

applicant should have affixed the demand draft of

application fees in favor of District Excise

Officer of the said area. Admittedly, though the

application was not supported with the demand

draft but application was supported with the pay

orders issued by the Adarsh Credit Cooperative

Society Ltd. and after due enquiry and

satisfaction for encashment the said document was

accepted and no illegality has been committed by

the respondent Department, so also, the

petitioner's case was also considered because he

has filed the demand draft along with his

application and all the applications received by 22 the Department were put to lottery and in lottery

unfortunately the petitioner was not selected,

therefore, now on this technical ground, he has

filed this writ petition and challenging the

entire proceedings, so also when his name was

included at Sl. No.1 in reserve list, then, he

has made prayer that while rejecting the

application of respondent No.5, the license may

be granted in his favour for sell of poppy straw

in Sriganganagar District. Learned counsel for

the Department vehemently argued that there is no

specific pleading with regard to status of Adarsh

Credit Cooperative Society Ltd. but at the time

of arguments, arguments were raised with regard

to status of said society and provisions of Banking Regulation Act, 1949 were placed before

this Court. During the course of arguments, it

is urged that the said society is not banking

institution, therefore, the Department has

committed an error while accepting the document

which is issued by the said society, which is not

a banking institution as provided under the Act

of 1949. Learned counsel for the respondent has

cited certain judgment that without pleadings no

such plea can be raised by the petitioner. More

so without impleading the Adarsh Credit

Cooperative Society Ltd. as party. Therefore,

this writ petition deserves to be dismissed. In reply to the writ petition, it is admitted 23 by the respondents that the respondent No.5 has

filed five applications accompanied by pay orders

issued by the Adarsh Credit Cooperative Society

Ltd. and those pay orders cannot be defined as

cheques but the petitioner has mentioned in the

writ petition that the cheques were accepted by

the Department but in fact this contention is

totally false. Further, in reply, it is admitted

that while accepting those pay orders issued in

favour of District Excise Officer, Sriganganagar

by the Adarsh Credit Cooperative Society Ltd. of

the Bank of Rajasthan Limited in support of

application, a necessary enquiry was made and

after due satisfaction for encashment of money

and to get satisfaction that revenue will be

collected, the decision was taken by the

Department and applications of respondent No.5

were put to lottery. It is true that an

objection was raised by the petitioner at the

time of lottery that the applications filed by

respondent No.5 cannot be accepted for the simple

reason that he has not affixed demand draft which

is condition precedent in para No.4.2 of the

terms and conditions of the application form but

after due satisfaction when department satisfied

that the pay orders will be encashed then after

receiving a communication Annexure-R1/2 dated

26.2.2009 and a certificate of registration

Annexure-R1/3, a conscious decision has been 24 taken by the Department to accept the pay orders

for the simple reason that intention of accepting

the application fees, which is not refundable was

to ensure the encashment of money and in this

case immediately the money was encashed upon the

said document. Therefore, no illegality has been

committed by the Department while accepting the

application form of the respondent No.5 on the

basis of pay orders issued by the said society. Learned counsel for the respondent -

department during the course of arguments

submitted that the Hon'ble Supreme Court in case

of Poddar Steel Corporation Vs. Ganesh

Engineering Works & Ors. , reported in 1991 (3)

SCC 273 held that as a matter of general

proposition it cannot be held that an authority

inviting tenders is bound to give effect to every

terms mentioned in the notice in meticulous

detail, and is not entitled to waive even a

technical irregularity of little or no

significance. The requirements in a tender

notice can be classified into two categories,

those which lay down the essential conditions of

eligibility and the others which are merely

ancillary or subsidiary with the main object to

be achieved by the condition. In the first case

the authority issuing the tender may be required

to enforce them rigidly. In the other cases, it

must be open to the authority to deviate from and 25 not to insist upon the strict literal compliance

of the condition in appropriate cases. While

inviting attention towards the aforesaid

judgment, it is submitted that the condition of

filing demand draft as provided under para

No.4.2, it can be said that this condition is

ancillary condition and department is having

jurisdiction to deviate from it and not to insist

upon in its strict sense. In this case, the

Department has chosen to accept the pay orders

which is filed by the respondent No.5 after due

satisfaction of encashment of application fees,

which is not refundable, therefore, in view of

aforesaid judgment in which two other judgments

of Bombay and Kerela High Courts were considered

and upheld reported in AIR 1984 Bom 351 and AIR

1982 Ker 81, it has been held by Hon'ble Apex

Court that the authority inviting tenders is not

bound to give effect of every terms mentioned in

the notice in meticulous detail and is entitled

to waive the ancillary conditions, which has been

done in this case. Heard Mr. Sandeep Mehta, Mr. Pankaj Sharma,

Mr. Vineet Jain, Mr. V.K. Vyas and Mr. Sanjeet

Purohit, learned counsel for the petitioners and

Mr. M.R. Singhvi, learned counsel appearing on

behalf of respondent-Department as well as Mr.

Rajesh Joshi and Mr. N.M. Lodha, learned counsel

appearing on behalf of private respondents. 26 First of all, I deem it just and proper to decide

the preliminary objection raised by respondents

with regard to maintainability of the writ

petition. The respondents have raised preliminary

objection that the petitioner has not submitted

correct facts before this Court and categorically

stated in the writ petition that a cheque was

filed by the respondent No.5 along with the

application form. This assertion has been made

to mis-guide this Court and to obtain relief from

this Court and in fact the respondent No.5 has

filed pay orders issued by the Society in favor

of District Excise Officer, therefore, all the

writ petitions deserve to be dismissed on this

ground alone. In my opinion, these writ

petitions cannot be dismissed on this preliminary

objection because admittedly the petitioners are

raising voice that the private respondent and

others were allowed to file applications for

grant of license without affixing demand draft as

required under Condition No.4.2 of the

application form and this question requires

adjudication on merit, therefore, the prayer of

the respondents for dismissing these writ

petitions upon preliminary objection is rejected. After hearing both the parties and perusing

the entire record, in these cases, the following

crucial question is involved which is to be 27 adjudicated by this Court : For adjudicating the above question which is

involved in all these cases, it is required to be

observed that the following facts are admitted

facts in these cases : However, in the event of acceptance of the

 application, 10% of the annual licence fee

 deposited as earnest money is adjustable

 towards security deposit. The petitioners' case is that as per the

application form for grant of licence for poppy

straw, the Excise Department of the State issued

administrative instructions/guideline for the

year 2009-2010. According to the said 29 administrative instructions/guideline, every

applicant was having right to file application

accompanied by 1% of the licence fee as

application fee and, for the mode of payment of

the same, a demand draft for the said amount was

required to be filed along with the application

form. It was also made clear that 1% application

fee is non-refundable. Likewise, in condition

No.5, it is specifically provided that 10% of the

annual licence fee was required to be deposited

towards earnest money and, for the same, a demand

draft was to be filed along with the application

form; and, it was made clear that in the absence

of deposit of the earnest money, the application

form will not be considered and, if after

affixing the earnest money, the applicant gets

selected, then, the amount of 10% of the annual

licence fee shall be adjusted. It is not disputed before this Court that no

application fees or earnest money was filed along

with the applications filed by the petitioners as

well as private respondents and other applicants.

The grievance of the petitioners is that they

complied with the condition incorporated in the

instructions and conditions issued by the

Government which were mandatory in nature; but,

the private respondent filed cheque of Adarsh

Credit Cooperative Society Ltd. along with the

application form and those applications were 30 accepted by the Department; and, due to this

illegal action, the private respondent got more

chances to get the licence whereas probable

chances of the petitioners were decreased. As

per the petitioners, the Department has

contravened their own terms and conditions and

illegally accepted the application form of the

private respondents accompanied by cheque. Learned counsel for the respondents, Mr. M.R.

Singhvi has pointed out that the petitioners have

not submitted correct facts before this Court.

In fact, no cheque was filed by the private

respondent; but, he has filed pay-order issued by

Adarsh Credit Cooperative Society Ltd. and, at

the time of accepting his application, it was

first ascertained after due enquiry and

satisfaction was made by the respondent

Department that in the event of acceptance of the

application, the payment shall be released

immediately in favour of the Department. It is

stated at Bar that after acceptance of the

application the money has been encashed and

deposited in the government treasury. In my opinion, the State Government has

issued administrative instructions and

terms/conditions which are not statutory in

character, therefore, it is to be seen which

condition is essential and which is ancillary

and, to what extent, this Court can interfere in 31 the decision taken by the State Government while

accepting the application on the basis of a

document/instrument other than a demand draft.

In this view of the matter, upon perusal of the

language used in para 4.2 of the

terms/conditions, it is obvious that a condition

was incorporated that every application shall be

accompanied by demand draft of 1% of the licence

fee as application fee in favour of the District

Excise Officer. But, in the event of filing

other document/instrument, decision was taken by

the respondent Department that upon enquiry if it

is satisfied by the financial institution that

the payment shall be released forthwith, then,

those applications may also be accepted. This

decision was taken upon the objection raised by

the petitioner at the time of lottery as per

condition No.17 of the said terms/conditions in

which there is power left with the respondent

Department to take final decision in case any

dispute arises. Said condition No.17 reads as

under : In this view of the matter, a decision was 32 taken by the Department after due satisfaction

that payment will be released forthwith by Adarsh

Credit Cooperative Society Ltd. in the event of

acceptance of the application of respondent No.5.

In my opinion, a conscious decision is taken in

the interest of the State having jurisdiction to

take such decision, then, interference in the

decision is not warranted. The case of the

respondents is that although as per condition

No.4.2 a demand draft was to be attached along

with the application; but, other

document/instrument which is admittedly not a

cheque but a pay-order issued by Adarsh Credit

Cooperative Society Ltd. who assured the

Department by way of issuing certificate that

they will make payment in the event of acceptance

of the application which is admittedly encashed

also, then, certainly private respondent Hastimal

has lost 4% of the licence fee as application fee

because his four applications were rejected and

one was accepted; meaning thereby, a decision was

taken by the Department after due satisfaction

for the release of the payment of application fee

which cannot be questioned. The ground of the petitioner that his chances

were decreased is not tenable in view of the fact

that at the Jaipur Bench of this Court, a writ

petition was filed by one Sant Ram, being S.B.

Civil Writ Petition No.2052/2009, decided on 33 24.02.2009, in which, the co-ordinate Bench of

this Court (at the Jaipur Bench) held that no

restriction can be imposed upon any applicant to

file more than one applications. Every applicant

has a right to file more than one applications

but each of such application must be accompanied

by 1% of the licence fee towards the application

fee through document/instrument which ensures

payment of said 1% amount of the application fee

which is not refundable. The contention of the petitioner with regard

to decreasing probable opportunities of the

petitioner is also unfounded because, at the time

of acceptance of application form of the private

respondent, it was first satisfied after due

enquiry by the respondent Department that in the

event of accepting the application at the final

lottery, 1% amount of licence fee towards

application fee which is essential for

considering the application will be released. and put to lots for the purpose of lottery, then,

it can be said that no right of the petitioner

was infringed. More so, while accepting large

number of applications filed by the applicants,

the State has gained revenue without causing

prejudice to anyone, therefore, the contention of

the petitioners is totally unfounded. More so, 34 in my opinion, the latter part of condition

No.4.2, is only ancillary condition of furnishing

1% amount of the licence fee as application fee,

and, for the same, the jurisdiction vests in the

Department in view of the para 17 of the

terms/conditions, whereunder, upon any dispute

raised by the applicants with regard to violation

of terms and conditions, the Excise Commissioner

had had jurisdiction to take decision and the

decision of the Excise Commissioner is final in

such event. In the case on hand, a conscious decision has

been taken by the Department in the interest of

the State for which the State cannot be blamed.

Merely upon the objection raised by the

petitioner that condition No.4.2 and Condition

No.5 has been violated. In my opinion, the

condition of filing demand draft is required to

be ignored because condition No.4.2 and condition

No.5 does not put any restriction that no

instrument other than demand draft will be

accepted. Therefore, such type of condition can

be termed as ancillary condition because in

present time of electronic era; various types of

banking methods have come into existence and

payment can be made by e-mail, e-banking, online

and cash, therefore, providing only one mode of

payment by way of filing demand draft itself is

un-reasonable and insufficient, therefore, in the 35 interest of State and within the jurisdiction

left with the Department under Condition No.17,

final decision was taken to get more revenue

without causing prejudice to the rights of any

person by way of accepting applications which

were supported by the instrument other than

demand draft. The above adjudication is well supported by

the judgment of the Supreme Court, reported in

(1991) 3 SCC 273, in which, the apex Court has

held after considering judgments cited by

petitioner, reported in (1979) 3 SCC 489, that

the requirements in a tender notice can be

classified into two categories viz., those which

lay down essential conditions of eligibility and

those which are merely ancillary or subsidiary to

the main objective. For this proposition, in

the present case, too, condition No.4.2 is

required to be discussed. In the first part of

the said condition, it is mandatory that each

application must be supported by 1% of the

licence fee towards application fee while the

latter part of the condition simply reads that, " Now, with regard to interference in the

matter, a specific ground has been raised by the

respondents while citing the judgment of Supreme

Court, reported in AIR 1996 SC 11. While

discussing the question of judicial review, the

Supreme Court has held that the principle of

judicial review would apply to exercise of

contractual power by the government bodies in

order to prevent arbitrariness or favouritism;

however, certain limitations have to be observed

that the Government is the guardian of the

finances of the State and the Government is to

protect the financial interest of the State. 40 Relevant para 85 to 90 and 113 of the said

judgment read as follows : 88. Commenting upon the Michael
Supperstone and James Goudie in their
work on "Judicial Review" (1992 Edition)
at page 16 say : 89. Observance of judicial restraint
is currently the mood in England. The
judicial power of review is exercise to
rein in any unbridled executive
functioning. The restraint has two
contemporary manifestations. One is the
ambit of judicial intervention; the other
covers the scope of the Court's ability
to quash an administrative decision on
its merits. These restraints bear the
hallmarks of judicial control over 42 administrative action. 90. Judicial review is concerned
with reviewing not the merits of the
decision in support of which the
application of judicial review is made,
but the decision making process itself. 113 The principles deducible from
the above are : (1)The modern trend points to
 judicial restraint in
 administrative action. (2)The Court does not sit as a court
 of appeal but merely reviews the
 manner in which the decision was
 made. (3)The Court does not have the
 expertise to correct the
 administrative decision. If a
 review of the administrative
 decision is permitted it will be
 substituting its own decision,
 without the necessary expertise
 which itself may be fallible. (4)The terms of the invitation to
 tender cannot be open to judicial
 scrutiny because the invitation to
 tender is in the realm of contract. Normally speaking, the decision to
 accept the tender or award the
 contract is reached by process of
 negotiations through several tiers.
 More often than not, such decisions
 are made qualitatively by experts.
 (5)The Government must have freedom
 of contract. In other words, a
 fairplay in the joints is a
 necessary concomitant for an
 administrative body functioning in 43 an administrative sphere or quasi
 administrative sphere. However,
 the decision must not only be
 tested by the application of
 Wednesbury principle of
 reasonableness (including its other
 facts point out above) but must be
 free from arbitrariness not
 affected by bias or actuated by
 mala fides. (6)Quashing decisions may impose
 heavy administrative burden on the
 administration and lead to
 increased and unbudgeted
 expenditure." Upon perusal of the above judgment of the

Apex Court, it is abundantly clear that judicial

review of the government decision in acceptance

or refusal of tender by the Courts cannot be made

ordinarily. Here, in this case also, a technical

objection has been raised by the petitioners that

though their applications were considered and put

to lottery but number of applications of

respondent No.5 were put to lottery on the basis

of instrument which is not expressly mentioned in

the terms/conditions and the petitioner has

complied with said condition in all respects;

meaning thereby, with regard to the petitioners'

contention for violation of Article 14 of the

Constitution of India, it can be said that there

is no violation of Article 14 because, as per

judgment of this Court dated 24.02.2009 in S.B. 44 Civil Writ Petition No.2052/2009 (at Jaipur

Bench), number of applications can be filed by

one applicant and while doing so, the

petitioners' applications along with applications

which were filed by the various applicants

supported by instrument other than demand draft

were put to lot. Unfortunately, the petitioner

was not selected in the lottery, therefore, now,

he is raising voice and raising a technical

ground. More so, the Department took decision

in the financial interest of the State because

upon every application the State is getting non-

refundable 1% of the licence fee as application

fee and if the petitioners' contention is

accepted, then, the State will suffer financial

loss. Here, in this case, it is admitted position

of the Department that all the pay orders filed

by the private respondent with regard to

application fee have been encashed and amount has

been deposited with the department. Likewise,

the earnest money has also been encashed and the

department shall adjust the same towards security

deposit. Therefore, the plea of violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India is

totally unfounded, and, accordingly, decision has

been taken by the Department in the interest of

the State, therefore, no interference is required

to be made in the decision of the Department. 45 Aside from other aspects of the matter, in

this case, without impleading Adarsh Credit

Cooperative Society Ltd. as party respondent,

while citing certain judgments, it is objected

that the said society is not a banking

institution. In my opinion, without impleading

that institution as party, the petitioner cannot

be permitted to raise voice because, in the

rejoinder filed by the petitioner, he has

specifically stated that the petitioner is not

challenging the credibility, competence and

authority of the aforesaid society but is

challenging the action of the State Government

whereby the State Government has accepted the

pay-orders issued by the said society. In my

opinion, when the petitioner is not challenging

the credibility, competence and authority of the

said society, then, he cannot be permitted to

raise any objection with regard to business

status of Adarsh Credit Cooperative Society Ltd.

from which the Department encashed the pay-orders

on behalf of the private respondent, therefore,

the plea of the petitioner which is though not

taken in the writ petition that Adarsh Credit

Cooperative Society Ltd. is not a financial

institution is hereby rejected. In view of the above discussions, it is

abundantly clear that the petitioners cannot be

permitted to raise the ground in the event of 46 accepting their applications along with other

persons who submitted the instrument other than

demand draft. Obviously, as per the discussions

above, terms and conditions of tender notice can

be classified into two categories - one is the

essential condition of eligibility and the others

which are ancillary or subsidiary to the main

object to be achieved by the condition. So far

as the conditions of eligibility are concerned,

they cannot be waived and must be complied with

strictly and while the other conditions which are

ancillary and subsidiary need not to be literally

complied with. In this case, the Department was

to get first satisfaction with regard to

encashment of money and after due satisfaction,

the condition of filing demand draft is waived

upon which the money was encashed by the

Department. Therefore, I hold that eligibility

condition enumerated at Sl. No.2 of the

application form was essential condition whereas

Condition No.4.2, which provides to accept the

instrument demand draft is hereby treated as

ancillary and subsidiary condition. Therefore,

the petitioners have no case for interference in

view of the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in

case of Poddar Steel Corporation (supra).

Further, the Department has all the powers to

waive any ancillary condition and can take

decision in the administrative side in the 47 financial interest of the State, which cannot be

questioned. But on the ground of discrimination

and violation of the essential conditions, the

matter can be judicially reviewed. In the

present facts and circumstances of the case, the

petitioner's application was also put to lottery

along with all the applications filed by the

applicants, either one or more than one, the

Department consciously took decision to accept

the financial instrument other than demand draft

for the purpose of deposit of 1% of the licence

fee as application fee which is not refundable

after due satisfaction of its realization, which

cannot be questioned. Therefore, these writ

petitions which are filed on a technical ground

that no other instrument then the demand draft

can be accepted by the respondent-Department have

no substance. Hence, all the writ petitions are

hereby dismissed with no order as to cost. (Gopal Krishan Vyas) J. Ojha, a.