1. In this criminal appeal filed u/s 29 of Protection of Women
from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 (hereinafter referred as D.V. Act )
appellant has challenged the impugned order dated 22.04.2017,
passed by the court of Ld. MM, Mahila Court, South, Delhi in CC
No.463221/16 vide which the appellant was declined interim
maintenance by the trial court while her minor son was granted
interim maintenance @ Rs.20,000/- per month from the date of order.
The appellant is aggrieved from the refusal of maintenance to her and
grant of inappropriate quantum of maintenance awarded to her son
from the date of order. 2. At the outset, I may note that there are two pre requisite
conditions for claiming any relief under DV Act . Firstly, that there CA No.150/17 Swati Joshi vs. Ashish Joshi Page No.1/14 existed a domestic relationship between the aggrieved person and
the respondent at the time of filing of complaint and secondly, that
the aggrieved person was subjected to acts of domestic violence by
the respondent. Considering the fact that appellant was declined
interim maintenance only on the ground of her being employed and
sufficiently earning, this court is not required to deal with the above
two conditions as the prima facie satisfaction of the trial court with
regard to existence of above two conditions is not in dispute. 3. The present appeal has been preferred mainly on the
following grounds:- 4. I have heard arguments from both the sides and also
carefully perused the trial court record. 5. Ld. Counsel Sh. Kshitij Sharda appearing for the appellant
vociferously argued that there is absolutely no justification for non
grant of arrear of maintenance to the child and even the maintenance
awarded to the child is inadequate because having regard to the
earnings of his father, the child is entitled to far better standards of
life including better schooling and better life opportunities. It is
further argued that the amount currently spent by the petitioner on
herself and on her child is only what she is able to afford though,
considering the huge earning and assets of respondent, both the
aggrieved person and her child are entitled to standards of living.
Currently, aggrieved person is spending Rs.11,000/- per month only
on the school fees of the child whereas, considering the earnings and
incomes of his father, the child is entitled to be put for other curricular
activities like swimming, music etc. which the appellant with his
meager income is not able to afford. 6. It is further argued that Ld. MM failed to take note of
above vital aspect and proceeded to grant maintenance for the child
only on the basis of current expenditure which the appellant is able to
afford for the child thereby, totally ignoring what the child actually
deserves to be provided having regard to actual income of his father.
Apart from respondent's salary, there are other deposits in his
account to the tune of Rs. 34,19,130/- in total in the year 2013,
Rs,40,57,795/- in the year 2014 and Rs.39,11,459/- in the year 2015.
Further, it is evident from the record that respondent had filed forged
documents including the ICICI bank account statement, income tax
form no.16 and salary slips to support his false plea of income and it
was only after the appellant's application u/s 91 Cr.P.C. for summoning CA No.150/17 Swati Joshi vs. Ashish Joshi Page No.5/14 the records directly from the concerned authorities was allowed by
the trial court vide order dated 14.01.2016, respondent in order to
avoid any legal consequences of his deceitful act, filed a fresh income
affidavit disclosing his salary to be Rs.2,01,984/- per month. 7. Counsel for appellant further argued that respondent in a
deceitful manner opened a new bank account with Kotak Mahindra
Bank in October, 2015 and started getting salary in his said account
and later on, he himself started transferring an amount of Rs.80,898/-
per month from his said account to his another account in ICICI bank
so as to falsely project said self transferred amount as his monthly
salary. It was further argued that the ld. Trial court had taken into
account the net income disclosed by the respondent in his income
affidavit while ignoring the actual income reflected in his income tax
returns for the assessment year 2015-16 wherein his net income is
shown to be Rs.19,34,030/- which means that at the time of passing
of impugned order dated 22.04.2017, he must be earning gross
income of more than Rs.3 lacs per month (Rs.2 lacs salary + Rs.1 lac
from other sources) which is also reflected from the huge deposits in
his bank account as well as from his salary slips of June & July, 2016
wherein, his net income was shown to be Rs.1,75,081/- and Rs.
Rs.3,47,895/- respectively. Counsel says that the average income of
the respondent can be assessed only from his bank account
statements as his salary keeps on varying and he also has huge
income from other sources which is reflected from various deposits
shown in his account. Although, respondent has claimed said deposits
to be the loan taken from different persons, but there is no such
disclosure given by him regarding any such loan in his income tax
returns as well as in his income affidavit filed before the trial court CA No.150/17 Swati Joshi vs. Ashish Joshi Page No.6/14 except to the extent of Rs.2 lacs which he claimed to have taken from
his friend. Counsel has also relied upon certain judgments in Sunita
Kachwaha & Ors. vs. Anil Kachwaha , 2015 AIR SC 554 and
Nainika Thakur Mehta vs. Mohit Mehta & Ors. ,2017 (2) JCC
1213 (para 3) and in Sujit Kumar vs. Vandana , 233 (2016)
Delhi Law Times 39 (DB) in support of his arguments that if there is
a huge gap of income between the spouses, in that event, even an
earning spouse with less income is entitled to seek maintenance from
the other spouse earning higher income because both the spouses
are entitled to enjoy equity of status and standards of life. 8. Rebutting the above arguments, Ld. Counsel Sh. A.K.
Mishra for the respondent contended that appellant being a qualified
lady working as an Assistant Professor is not a destitute so as to claim
interim maintenance which is awarded only as an interim measure to
prevent vagrancy and destitution. It is further argued that admittedly
monthly income of appellant is Rs.47,000/- whereas, her monthly
expenditures have been shown to more than Rs.85,000/-. It is further
argued that on account of some inadvertent mistake in the income
affidavit filed on 14.01.2016, respondent had filed another affidavit on
19.01.2016 before the trial court and same was taken on record. The
salary is the only source of income of respondent as is also reflected
in his affidavit and even the appellant has failed to place on record
any proof of respondent's alleged additional income from other
sources. Further that, respondent also owes the responsibility to
maintain his old age mother who is suffering from various ailments. In
support of his arguments that an earning spouse is not entitled for
interim maintenance, the counsel has placed reliance on the
judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Rupali Gupta vs. Rajat CA No.150/17 Swati Joshi vs. Ashish Joshi Page No.7/14 Gupta, MAT . APP (F.C.) No. 143 of 2014 decided on
05.09.2016. It is further argued on behalf of respondent that
substantial part of respondent's income goes in paying the EMI of
Rs.32,159/- in respect of home loan taken by the respondent at the
time of purchase of a flat in Ramprastha. 9. Before considering respective contentions of parties, I
may mention here that while fixing an interim maintenance court has
to take a prima facie view of the matter and need not to critically
examine the respective claims of the parties regarding their
respective incomes and assets because for deciding the same the
evidence would be required. But, at the same time, an aggrieved
person cannot be rendered to lead a life of a destitute till completion
of trial. It is also pertinent to note here that as per the dictionary
meaning of the word 'maintenance', it includes all such means of
living as would enable one to live in the degree of comfort, suitable
and becoming to his situation of life. It is said to include anything
requisite to housing, feeding, clothing, health, proper recreation,
vacation, traveling expenses or other proper cognate purposes. For
computing the maintenance, the following test have been laid down
by Hon'ble Apex Court in Jasbir Kaur Sehgal vs. District Judge,
Dehradun & Ors. 1997 (7) SCC 7, wherein it has been observed
that:- 10. While applying the above judgment, Hon'ble Delhi High
Court in Annurita Vohra vs. Sandeep Vohra , 110, (2004) DLT
546 laid down following principles of law for ascertaining the
quantum of maintenance:- 11. Now adverting to the facts of the present case, the trial
court record reflects that the income affidavit with salary slips and
income tax returns came to be filed before the trial court twice. In the CA No.150/17 Swati Joshi vs. Ashish Joshi Page No.9/14 ITR filed by the respondent at the first instance, his annual gross
income for assessment year 2013-14 was Rs.15,84,320/-, for the year
2014-15 was Rs.17,82,656/- and for year 2015-16 was Rs.6,56,347/-. 12. After the appellant moved the trial court with an
application u/s 91 Cr.P.C., the respondent preferred to file a fresh
affidavit of income wherein his annual income was shown to be much
higher. Thereafter, Ld. Trial court also summoned his bank statement
from ICICI bank showing huge deposits in his account to the tune of
Rs.35-40 lacs annually. During the course of arguments when
respondent was asked about the source of various deposits against
the credit entry mentioned in his bank account statement, he claimed
that he had taken said amounts as loan from his friends and relatives.
Whereas, there is no disclosure of any such loan either in his income
affidavits or even in his income tax returns. Even the EMIs towards
home loan, have been paid only up till March, 2014 as respondent did
not place on record any document to show that he had been paying
any such EMIs at the tme of impugned order or even subsequently.
There is nothing on record to show for how many years, said EMIs
were payables. 13. It is settled principle of law that both the parties have a
legal, moral and social duty to provide their child with the best of
education and standard of living within their means and mere fact
that spouse with whom the child is living is having a source of
income, even if sufficient, would in no way absolve the other spouse
of his obligation to make his contribution towards maintenance and
welfare of child. Both the parents are liable to contribute for the child
in proportion to their respective incomes. 14. I may also note here that it is not that only a woman who
is on verge of starvation and destitution, is entitled to interim
maintenance. The amount of maintenance should be such that the
wife is able to live in 'reasonable comfort' considering her status and
life style, she had been enjoying while living with her husband.
Though, the onus to prove husband's financial status is on the wife
but it becomes difficult for estranged wife to furnish proof, especially
in informal economy and a lot of women do not know anything about
their husband's income or property because it is considered in bad
form and in said circumstances, it boils down to what the husband
himself discloses his income to be and deprives the women to his
lawful right to get maintenance commensurating to the standard and
status of living enjoyed by her husband. The bias that woman should
be happy with whatever she gets, rather than what is her right, still
continues to plague our society. 15. In the instant case, Ld. Trial court seems to have
completely ignored the huge difference of income between the two
spouses and strangely, while refusing the interim maintenance to the
wife, ld. Trial court took note of her gross income, whereas, while
awarding maintenance to the child, Ld. Trial court had taken into
account husband's net income which he disclosed in his second
income affidavit. Since in the salary slips which subsequently came to
be filed on record by the employer of husband, there is a huge
variation in the salary of different month, no effort was made to take
out the average salary, which could have been easily done from the
annual income returns/From 16 filed by the employer. 16. The fraud played by the respondent to hide his actual
income is writ large from his bank account statement of ICICI bank,
and income tax returns, which he initially placed on record to support
his lesser claim of income. The respondent has also tried to play
smart by showing Rs.80,898/- as his monthly salary by showing
monthly transfer of said sum of money from his another bank account
to his account in ICICI bank. The various unexplained deposits other
than those under the head of salary, shown in the bank account
statement of respondent are prima facie suggestive of the fact that
respondent is also having some additional source of income, which he
deliberately did not disclose in his income affidavit in order to escape
from his liability to pay maintenance. 17. From the entire material placed on record such as the
salary slips, ITRs and bank account statements of respondent, his net
monthly income in the year 2017, shall not be less than 2 lacs, while
the net monthly income of appellant as per her salary slip is
Rs.38,000/- per month. Apparently, there is a huge difference of
income of two spouses. Therefore, in view of the judgment of Hon'ble
Delhi High Court in Nayanika Thakur Mehta vs. Mohit Mheta &
Ors., 2017 (2) JCC 1213, even an earning wife is entitled to claim
maintenance from her husband if the difference of income is huge. In
the instant case, the appellant started working as Assistant Professor
in Amity University only as an effort to ensure a dignified life for her
self and for her minor child, after she was forced to leave the
matrimonial home. In such a situation, when the wife instead of just
depending on the money of others, tries to secure some employment
and earn, her employment should not deprive her to claim
maintenance from her husband, whose income is manifold higher CA No.150/17 Swati Joshi vs. Ashish Joshi Page No.12/14 than the income of his wife. 18. Having regard to aforementioned discussion, I find the
order of trial court declining the interim maintenance to the aggrieved
person/appellant suffers from illegality and infirmity and hence, not
sustainable in law. Though the quantum of maintenance granted to
the child in my view, is not unreasonable and inadequate for the
reason that the mother is equally liable to contribute in the child's
maintenance in proportion to her income but, there is absolutely no
reason assigned in the impugned order for not granting the arrears of
maintenance to the child and to that extent, the impugned order
needs correction. The appellant had placed on record the lease
agreement in respect of rented accommodation where she was living
with the child w.e.f. 01.10.2016 at monthly rent of Rs.25,000/- despite
that, Ld. trial court did not pass any residence order for paying the
rental in lieu of the accommodation merely on the ground that
aggrieved person was employed and earning. 19. Considering the aforementioned facts and circumstances,
I am inclined to modify the impugned order to the extent that
Rs.12,000/- shall be paid by the respondent to the
appellant/aggrieved person towards rent w.e.f. from 01.10.2016 till
the pendency of this case. Since the aggrieved person has placed on
record the lease agreement of the rented premises only for the period
of 11 months therefore, the rent at said rate for the subsequent
period i.e. w.e.f. 01.11.2017 shall be payable to her subject to her
placing on record the rent receipts. Besides rental, the aggrieved
person shall also be entitled for interim maintenance @ Rs.10,000/-
per month towards her own maintenance. The interim maintenance CA No.150/17 Swati Joshi vs. Ashish Joshi Page No.13/14 awarded to the aggrieved person and her minor child shall be payable
from the date of filing of petition u/s 12 of D.V. Act. Accordingly, the
appeal stands partly allowed. 20. TCR be sent back to the trial court alongwith copy of this
judgment. 21. Appeal file be consigned to record room. Announced in open Court
on 08.06.2018

 (Sunena Sharma)
 Additional Sessions Judge-03, (South)
 Saket Courts, New Delhi

 Digitally
 signed by
 SUNENA
 SUNENA SHARMA
 SHARMA Date: