"That to palm off a young woman as belonging to a caste
different to the one to which she really belongs, with the
object of obtaining money, amounts to the offence of
cheating by personation as defined in Section 416 of the
Penal Code, 1860, which must be read in the light of the
preceding Section 415 ." 2025:HHC:18000 19. A similar view was taken in Delhi Race Club (1940)

Ltd. v. State of U.P. , (2024) 10 SCC 690, wherein it was observed: 37. Further, in both the aforesaid sections, mens rea, i.e.
 intention to defraud or dishonest intention, must be
 present, and in the case of cheating, it must be there from
 the very beginning or inception. 20. Therefore, it is to be determined whether these

ingredients are satisfied by the allegations contained in the

complaint or not. 21. It was specifically asserted in the complaint that the

accused showed the land belonging to the Department of

Industries and thereby induced the complainant to pay the

money to him. The patwari reported that the land owned by the

accused was located at a distance. These allegations, prima facie, 22 2025:HHC:18000

 show that a false representation was made by the accused to the

 complainant, and the complainant was induced to pay money to

 the accused based upon this representation. 22. A heavy reliance was placed upon the report

 submitted by the police, in which it was mentioned that the land

 of the accused was located at some distance and the accused was

 ready to sell that land to the complainant. There was no

 evidence to show that the land mentioned by the complainant

 was shown to him, and it was a civil dispute. This report

 mentions that police had associated the parties and relied upon

 the statement of the accused. Since the defence of the accused is

 not to be seen at this stage of summoning him1, therefore, this

 report will not assist the accused. Further, the complaint

 specifically mentions that Parveen Kumar and Yashpal were

 present on the spot when the land was shown to the

 complainant, however, no reference was made to their

 statements in the report submitted by the police. Moreover, the

 accused has also not filed the complete report containing the

 statements of Parveen Kumar and Yashpal, therefore, there is

 nothing to show that they had not supported the version of the 1 Anil Saran v. State of Bihar , (1995) 6 SCC 142 23 2025:HHC:18000

complainant and not much advantage can be derived from the

report submitted by the police. 23. It was submitted that mere breach of contract does

not amount to fraud. There can be no dispute with this

proposition of law, however, the complainant is not alleging

any breach of contract, but he is asserting that a different land

was shown to him and he was induced to pay money to the

accused based upon such representation. Hence, it is not a case

of breach of contract but a case of misrepresentation made by

the accused. 24. It was submitted that the civil suit was filed

regarding the same transaction, which was dismissed. This

dismissal was upheld by the learned Appellate Court, and the

matter is pending adjudication before this Court. The petitioner

has not filed the certified copies of the plaint, written

statement, and the judgments to show that the civil suit was

filed regarding the misrepresentation and this plea was negated

by the Civil Court. Therefore, no advantage can be derived from

this plea. 2025:HHC:18000 25. Professor Glanville Williams explained in his

celebrated book Learning the Law (Tenth Edition, Stevens and

Sons) that the facts by themselves cannot determine civil or

criminal liability. The same set of facts may give rise to criminal

or civil liability. The distinction between the two is not the

nature of the act but the nature of the proceedings that are

taken to seek redressal. It was observed: 26. The Hon'ble Supreme Court also held in Randheer

Singh v. State of U.P. , (2021) 14 SCC 626: 2021 SCC OnLine SC 942,

that a given set of facts may make out a civil wrong, as well as,

the criminal offence and mere availability of civil remedies is no

ground to quash the criminal proceedings. It was observed: 2025:HHC:18000 27. A similar view was taken in V.R. Dalal v. Yougendra

Naranji Thakkar , (2008) 15 SCC 625, wherein it was observed: - 28. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Puneet Beriwala Vs. State 2025 SCC OnLine SC 983 that simply

because a remedy is provided under the civil law cannot lead to

an inference that resort cannot be had to the criminal law or

that the civil law remedy is the only remedy available to the

parties. It was observed: This Court, while exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of

Cr.P.C., has to take the allegations in the FIR as correct. This

position was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Punit

Beriwala v. State (NCT of Delhi ), 2025 SCC OnLine SC 983, wherein

it was observed: - "29. It is settled law that the power of quashing of a
 complaint/FIR should be exercised sparingly with
 circumspection, and while exercising this power, the
 Court must believe the averments and allegations in the
 complaint to be true and correct. It has been repeatedly
 held that, save in exceptional cases where non-
 interference would result in a miscarriage of justice, the
 Court and the judicial process should not interfere at the
 stage of investigation of offences. Extraordinary and
 inherent powers of the Court should not be used in a
 routine manner according to its whims or caprice." 31. It was laid down in Maneesha Yadav v. State of U.P. ,

2024 SCC OnLine SC 643, that the Court exercising inherent 28 2025:HHC:18000

jurisdiction to quash the FIR cannot go into the truthfulness or

otherwise of the allegations. It was observed: - 32. Hence, this Court cannot adjudicate the truthfulness

or falsity of the complaint. 33. The complaint is pending before the learned Trial

Court and the learned Trial Court is seized of the matter. It was

laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Iqbal v. State of U.P. ,

(2023) 8 SCC 734: 2023 SCC OnLine SC 949 that when the charge

sheet has been filed, the learned Trial Court should be left to

appreciate the same. It was observed: 34. Therefore, this Court should not exercise jurisdiction

when the matter is pending before the learned Trial Court. 35. No other point was urged. 36. Consequently, the present petition fails, and the

same is dismissed. 37. The observations made herein before shall remain

confined to the disposal of the petition and will have no bearing,

whatsoever, on the merits of the case. ( Rakesh Kainthla )
 06 June 2025
 th
 Judge
 (ravinder)