(28.12.2022) 1. The issue under consideration arising out of the second appeal dated 04.08.2020
include non-receipt of the following information sought by the appellant through the RTI
application dated 26.05.2020 and first appeal dated 08.07.2020:- 2. Succinctly facts of the case are that the appellant filed an application dated
26.05.2020 under the Right to Information Act, 2005 (RTI Act ) before the Central Public Page 1 of 3 Information Officer (CPIO), Central Bank of India, Pune, seeking aforesaid information.
The CPIO did not reply to the appellant. Aggrieved by the same, the appellant filed first
appeal dated 08.07.2020. The First Appellate Authority (FAA) vide order dated
04.08.2020 disposed of the first appeal. Aggrieved by that, the appellant filed second
appeal dated 04.08.2020 before the Commission which is under consideration. 3. The appellant has filed the instant appeal dated inter alia on the grounds that
reply given by the CPIO was not satisfactory. The appellant requested the Commission to
direct the CPIO to provide the complete information and take necessary action as per Section 20 (1) of the RTI Act. 4. The CPIO did not reply to the RTI application. The FAA vide order dated
04.08.2020 provided the reply as under: 5. The appellant remained absent and on behalf of the respondent Shri Sanjay Kumar
Notani, Chief Manager, Central Bank of India, Pune, attended the hearing through video
conference. 5.1. The respondent while defending their case inter alia submitted that the fraudulent
transaction referred in the RTI application was done through UPI transaction by using
Google Pay and therefore such transaction was not under the control of the bank.
Therefore, they expressed their inability to provide the information regarding refund. 6. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, hearing
the respondent and perusal of records, observed that the appellant sought information
regarding refund of the alleged fraudulent transaction done through Google Pay (UPI
transaction) from her account. The respondent informed that the said transaction was
done trough Google pay and RBI had already issued notification that if any issue arises
while transferring amount through Google pay, one cannot claim. The respondent Page 2 of 3 submitted that the transaction done through Google Pay was beyond their control and
therefore, they expressed their inability to provide any information. There appears to be
no infirmity in the reply given by the respondent. Moreover, the appellant neither filed
any written objection nor presented herself before the Commission to controvert the
averments made by the respondent and further agitate the matter. Hence, the submissions
of the respondent were taken on record. The Commission is of the view that there is no
public interest in further prolonging the matter. Accordingly the appeal is dismissed. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Sd/-