Writ of Mandamus has been filed by the petitioner, who is presently

 working as Forest Ranger. His next promotional avenue is Regional Manager.

 He has already approached this Court for various reliefs alleging malafides

 against him and the cases are pending. In one case, the disciplinary

 proceedings initiated against him has been challenged against malafides and

 this Court has already granted interim order staying further proceedings in

 the departmental proceedings. 2. The petitioner herein, now apprehends that by virtue of oral order, he

 is likely to be reverted and hence seeks Mandamus that respondents 1 and 2

 should not revert him from the post of Forest Ranger, since he is holding the

 post for more than two years or to initiate any other feeder post without

 following due process of law. 3. The contentions raised of the writ petitioner on the face of it, is only

 based on some apprehension which he has entertained for himself and there
http://www.judis.nic.in 3 is no material to substantiate his apprehension. By giving a representation,

 the petitioner himself has made a ground for filling Mandamus, when there is

 no order from the respondents either to revert him back or disturb his

 position. It appears that the writ petitioner is very fond of approaching this

 Court and filing some petition and keeping the matter pending and that is the

 reason why the respondent has informed him vide letter dated 18.07.2018

 that the staff of forest department shall not approach the Court before

 seeking leave of the Superior Authority. 4. Writ of Mandamus can be sought, if there is a statutory right vested

 upon the petitioner and the statutory duty to discharge by the respondent. In

 this case, merely apprehending that the petitioner is likely to be reverted, the

 present writ petition is filed. Not even a single piece of material is available

 before this Court to infer the likelihood of reversion. 5. From the records, this Court finds that a scam of Rs.40,00,000/-

 (Rupees Forty Lakhs only) has been deducted and the enquiry regarding that

 is under progress. The contention of the petitioner herein is that he was the

 whistle blower for the scam and hence, he is victimised. This cannot be a

 ground for the Court to anticipate reversion and pass an injunction restraining

 the respondents from reverting back. There is no reason or ground to invoke

http://www.judis.nic.in 4 Dr.G.JAYACHANDRAN,J.,

 sts

 the power of Writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution in this case

 and hence the writ petition is dismissed. However, there shall be no order as

 to costs. Consequently, connected W.M.P.(MD) No.20761 of 2018 is closed. 16.11.2018

 Index : Yes / No
 Internet: Yes / No

 sts

 To

 The Managing Director,
 Tamil Nadu Forest Plantation Corporation Ltd.,
 Karur Main Road, Mallachiparam,
 Kamarasampettai Post,
 Thiruchirappalli District,
 620 101

 Order in W.P.(MD)No.22879 of 2018 http://www.judis.nic.in