crlp_5736_2019

Inspector. The de facto complainant accepted the said

proposal. So, both of them started talking to each other

regularly. 5. After completion of the training, the de facto

complainant joined as a Constable at Parvathipuram Town

Police Station. The petitioner used to visit her where she is

working and both of them used to visit several places like

Araku, Srikalahasthi and Hyderabad etc. At that time, the

petitioner insisted the de facto complainant to indulge in

sexual intercourse with him. Initially she refused the said

request and stated that she is not willing to participate in any

sexual intercourse with him before marriage. However, the

petitioner lured and induced her to have sexual intercourse

with him stating that they are going to marry very soon and

thereby had sexual intercourse with her on the said promise

to marry her. 6. Thereafter, the petitioner joined as Civil Sub

Inspector, Guntur. He continued to take the de facto

complainant to various places and have sexual intercourse

with her. However, he has been postponing the marriage on

one pretext or the other. Finally, after lot of persuasion and

when the de facto complainant insisted the petitioner for

marriage, he married her on 12-4-2017 at Sri Venkateswara

Kodanda Swamy Vari Temple, Thotapalli Village of

Gudugubelli Mandal. After marriage, the petitioner spent

only two days with the de facto complainant and thereafter 3 CMR, J. crlp_5736_2019

left her company stating that he would come again after few

days and take her to his matrimonial home. However, he did

not take her to his matrimonial home and he has been

postponing the same on one pretext or the other. When the

de facto complainant questioned the conduct of the petitioner

in this regard, he finally disclosed that he was already

married and he only thought of having sexual relationship

with her. But on the pressure given by the de facto

complainant and her parents that he married her as he has

no option at that time and he also tried to persuade the

de facto complainant stating that it is a common affair in the

Police Department and that if she needs any money that he

would give money to her. He also stated that he will not

accept the de facto complainant as his wife. 7. At that time, the de facto complainant realized that

she was cheated by the petitioner. She informed the same to

her family members. Her family members questioned him

and also informed him that they would complain about his

conduct to his higher officials. The petitioner replied that he

is the Sub Inspector of Police and no one will accept and

entertain any such complaint against him as he got influence

in the Department. He also threatened the de facto

complainant that he has taken the photos of the de facto

complainant without her knowledge when they were together

and that he would show the same to his friends and

batchmates and also send the photographs to all the men in 4 CMR, J. crlp_5736_2019

the police station on their WhatsApp and threatened that if

the said photographs are disseminated in the above manner

that her family members would commit suicide due to loss of

reputation. 8. On 10-02-2019 while she was in duty at the outpost

of Parvathipuram Railway Station, she was informed by the

Head Constable D.Ratna Kumar that the petitioner has sent

photos of the de facto complainant on his WhatsApp. When

she questioned the petitioner, he stated that as she is trying

to complain against him to his higher officials that he has

decided to share the photographs to his friends and

batchmates and stated that he would see that she cannot

raise her head in the society and that she and her family

members would commit suicide. He also stated that he has

pretended that he is in love with her and would marry her

only to satisfy his carnal lust. The petitioner also abused her

in the name of her caste stating that "S.C. PYDI LAMJA" and

insulted her in the name of her caste in the presence of

K.Anasuya and her sister P.Swathi. 9. Therefore, the de facto complainant in the said

circumstances, having no other go, lodged report with the

Police to take action against the petitioner. The said report

was registered as a case in Crime No.24/2019 for the

aforesaid offences. CMR, J. crlp_5736_2019 10. Heard Sri N.Ashwani Kumar, learned counsel for the

petitioner and the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the

respondent/State. 11. The learned counsel for the petitioner would submit

that even as per the allegations in the FIR, it is a case of

consensual sexual intercourse and as such no case of

cheating is made out from the facts of the case. Even

otherwise, as the FIR discloses that the petitioner married the

de facto complainant on 12-4-2017 that no case of cheating is

made out on the said ground also. In fact, the petitioner

never made any such promise to the de facto complainant to

marry her and he never had sexual intercourse with her and

he also did not marry her. He would submit that the

petitioner was already married and he got children and as

such the question of marrying the de facto complainant again

by him does not arise at all. It is a false allegation made by

the de facto complainant. He would also contend that the

provisions of the ST/ST Act are also not attracted as the

allegation that the petitioner abused the de facto complainant

in the name of her caste and insulted her, within the public

view is absent in this case. So, no case is constituted under

any of the Sections registered under the ST/ST Act by the

prosecution. So, there is no bar to entertain this petition

under Section 438 of Cr.P.C and Section 18 of the SC/ST Act

will not come in the way of entertaining this petition. In

support of the said contention, he relied on the judgment of 6 CMR, J. crlp_5736_2019

the Apex Court in Union of India v. State of Maharashtra1 , Swaran Singh v. State Through Standing Counsel2 , Daya

Bhatnagar v. State3 and Vipul Maganbhai Patel v. State

of Gujarat4 . 12. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor

vehemently opposed the criminal petition. He would submit

that the petition filed by the petitioner under Section 482 of

Cr.P.C to quash the FIR in Crime No.24/2019 was dismissed

by this Court. Therefore, it is evident that this Court found

that prima facie case is made out against the petitioner herein

for the offences registered against him in Crime No.24/2019.

So, it is no more open to the petitioner to contend that no

offence was constituted under the SC/ST Act from the facts of

the case and the allegations made against the petitioner in

the FIR. Therefore, in view of the finding of this Court that

the allegations set out in the FIR prima facie constitute an

offence under the SC/ST Act, the bar contained in Section 18 of the SC/ST Act would apply in full force to the present facts

of the case. So, this petition filed under Section 438 of Cr.P.C

for grant of anticipatory bail, in the facts and circumstances

of the case, is not maintainable and it is to be dismissed

in limine on the ground of its maintainability. 13. He would further submit that even otherwise, the

facts of the case go to show the manner in which the

1 2019 SCC Online SC 1279
2 (2008) 8 SCC 435
3 109 (2004) DLT 915
4 2019 SCC OnLine Guj 832 7 CMR, J. crlp_5736_2019

petitioner has cheated the de facto complainant by

suppressing the fact that he is a married man and that he got

children. He contends that he pretended that he is in love

with her and he would marry her and thereby induced her to

have sexual intercourse with him. Thereafter married her

when she has pressurized him without disclosing that he is

a married man. So, these facts clearly show that the

petitioner had with a male fide intention from the inception

trapped the de facto complainant and after satisfying his

carnal lust, he has left her to her fate. The fact that he even

went to the extent of sending the intimate photographs of the

de facto complainant in WhatsApp group to the employees of

the Police Department aggravates the nature of the offence.

So, the facts of the case clearly constitute the offences which

were registered against him at the time of registering the FIR.

So, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case

and in view of the gravity of the offences, he would submit

that it is not a fit case to grant anticipatory bail to the

petitioner and thereby prayed for dismissal of the petition. 14. Perused the record. 15. No doubt, it is settled proposition of law that when

the facts of the case or the allegations set out in the FIR even

if they are taken at their face value as true, if they do not

prima facie make out any case or constitute any offence under

the provisions of the SC/ST Act, then despite the bar

contained in Section 18 of the SC/ST Act, the Courts can 8 CMR, J. crlp_5736_2019

entertain a petition under Section 438 of Cr.P.C for grant of

anticipatory bail. In fact, the three-Judge Bench of the Apex

Court in the judgment relied on by the learned counsel for the

petitioner in Union of India v. State of Maharashtra (1 supra)

held that there is no absolute bar against grant of

anticipatory bail in cases under the SC/ST Act if no prima

facie case is made out or on judicial scrutiny the complaint is

found to be prima facie mala fide. 16. In the instant case, the petitioner has filed a petition

under Section 482 of Cr.P.C to quash the FIR in Crime

No.24/2019. This Court by its order dated 04-12-2019,

having found that the facts of the case prima facie make out

a case and constitute an offence under the SC/ST Act and for

the other reasons as discussed in the said order, dismissed

the said petition under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. Therefore,

upon considering the facts and circumstances of the case,

this Court already recorded a finding in the said order passed

in Crl.P. No.2948 of 2019 that the facts of the case prima

facie constitute an offence under the SC/ST Act. 17. The contention of the learned counsel for the

petitioner that since the alleged abuse made by the petitioner

in the name of the caste of the de facto complainant and

insulting her in the name of her caste is not within the public

view that no offence is constituted under the SC/ST Act is

devoid of any merit. It is clearly stated that in the FIR that

the petitioner abused the de facto complainant in the name of 9 CMR, J. crlp_5736_2019

her caste stating that "S.C. PYDI LAMJA" and that he insulted

her in the name of her caste in the presence of K.Anasuya

and her sister Swathi. Therefore, it cannot be said that she

was not insulted in the name of her caste within the public

view. Even in the decision relied on by the learned counsel

for the petitioner in Swaran Singh 's case (2 supra), it is clearly

stated that calling a member of Scheduled Caste as "chaman"

with intent to insult or humiliate him in a place within the

public view is certainly an offence under Section 3(1)(x) of the

SC/ST Act and whether there was intent to insult or

humiliate by using the said word will depend on the context

in which it was used. Therefore, this has to be decided in the

final adjudication of the case after trial of the case is

completed if ultimately charge-sheet is filed against the

petitioner after completion of investigation by the Police.

The other judgments relied on by the petitioner cited supra

are distinguishable on facts. So, they are not applicable to

the present facts of the case. 18. Since the facts of the case and the allegations set

out in the FIR prima facie constitute an offence under the

SC/ST Act, this Court has no hesitation to hold that the bar

engrafted under Section 18 of the SC/ST Act clearly attracts

and this petition under Section 438 of Cr.P.C is not

maintainable under law. So, on the sole the ground the

present petition is liable to be dismissed. 10 CMR, J. crlp_5736_2019 19. Even otherwise, considering the grave allegations

made in the FIR which clearly show that the petitioner has

very intelligently by suppressing his earlier marriage had

pretended as if he is in love with the de facto complainant and

would marry her and thereby trapped her and lured her and

induced her to have sexual intercourse with him inspite of the

fact that she initially resisted him and ultimately succeeded

in persuading her to participate in sexual intercourse with

him by making her believe that he would marry her very soon.

Thereafter, he avoided her and started postponing the

marriage on one pretext or the other. 20. These facts speak volumes regarding the manner in

which the petitioner after unleashing his sexual passions and

after satisfying his carnal lust in such a deceitful manner

cheated the de facto complainant. When she questioned his

conduct when he is evading to marry her, to overcome the

said situation, he then went to the extent of marrying her by

suppressing his previous marriage which is a clear offence

punishable under Section 498 of IPC. The facts of the case

further show that the petitioner even went to the extent of

sending the intimate photographs of the de facto complainant

which were taken by him clandestinely, on WhatsApp to the

employees of the Police Department. So, all these facts show

that the petitioner has indulged in commission of grave

offences punishable under Sections 354C and 496 of IPC and

under the SC/ST Act and under the Right to Information Act . 11 CMR, J. crlp_5736_2019

So, the accusation made against the petitioner in this regard

is prima facie well founded. Therefore, in the said facts and

circumstances of the case and having regard to the

seriousness of the allegations made against him, this Court is

of the considered view that this is not a fit case where

anticipatory bail can be granted to the petitioner. 21. Therefore, the petition is dismissed. _________________________________________
 CHEEKATI MANAVENDRANATH ROY, J. 11th December, 2019. Ak 12 CMR, J. crlp_5736_2019

HONOURABLE SRI JUSTICE CHEEKATI MANAVENDRANATH ROY

 Criminal Petition No.5736 of 2019
 (For Orders)

 11th December, 2019. (Ak)