The Criminal Original Petition has been filed seeking to quash the

 First Information Report vide Crime No.729 of 2021 on the file of the Inspector

 of Police, Neelankarai Police Station, Kanchipuram District. 2. A case in Crime No.729 of 2021 was registered on 10.10.2021 for

 offences under Sections 406 , 420 , 465 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of IPC on the

 complaint given by the second respondent, K.Salapathi. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioners would submit that based on the

 complaint given by the defacto complainant/K.Salapathi, a case has been

 registered for offences under Section 406 , 420 , 465 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of

 IPC. He would further submit that the matter has been compromised between

 the petitioners and the defacto complainant and he would pray that the matter 2/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.3170 of 2022 may be quashed based on the terms of compromise. He would also submit that

 no public interest is involved in this matter. 4. The respondent police have filed a detailed status report. 5. Learned Additional Public Prosecutor would submit that it is not a

 case of private dispute between two parties. It is the case, where the accused

 have not only cheated the defacto complainant, they have also cheated several

 thousand people. During the course of investigation, it came to light that the

 petitioners/accused have cheated about 18,000 persons throughout the state of

 Tamil Nadu under the guise of sharing the money they received out of illegal

 sale of iridium products. He would further submit that the investigation is in the

 initial stage and the respondent police also understands that there has been

 unholy nexus between the defacto complainant and the accused and thereby,

 they are trying to cover up a larger scam by entering into compromise. He

 would also submit that the respondent are also taking steps to transfer the case

 either to CCB or to EOW, since, it has a state vide ramification and he would

 oppose for quashing the proceedings. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.3170 of 2022 6. Mr.V.Jayachandran, learned counsel appearing for the 2nd

 respondent/defacto complainant would submit that the defacto complainant had

 given money to the father of A1 and that a case of money dispute has been

 falsely projected by the police as a case of Iridium scam and A1 had also repaid

 the money. The 2nd respondent/defacto complainant is ready to withdraw the

 complaint. 7. At this juncture, learned Additional Public Prosecutor would

 submit that it is not so as if stated by the defacto complainant. Based on

 specific information, a search was conducted in a resort and the accused were

 arrested and during the time of arrest, several documents, printers and

 incriminating articles were recovered from the accused. He would also reiterate

 that it is a larger scam, where several victims have been cheated to the tune of

 more than Rupees Eighteen Crores. Now the parties, in order to cover up the

 larger scam, had compromised with the petitioners. He would further submit

 that larger public interest is involved in this case and the case is in the initial

 stage of investigation. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.3170 of 2022 8. Heard the learned counsel and perused the materials including the

 CD file. 9. Coming to the facts of this case, as per the complainant, it is the

 case of the defacto complainant that he got acquainted to the accused through

 one Saravanan and the accused had induced him saying that they were running

 a company in the name of M/s.John Megnon and that they were dealing with a

 business of Rice Pulling and Iridium and that if a person deposits Rs.10,000/-,

 he will be repaid an amount of Rupees One Crore after 6 months. 10. It is the further case of the defacto complainant that believing the

 accused, he had received Rs.10,000/- each from 136 persons and had deposited

 an amount of Rs.13,60,000/- with the accused and that they have cheated him. It is also the further case of the defacto complainant that the accused had taken

 a house on rent at ECR Road and they were pacifying the other depositors

 asking for time. However, now it is submitted that the defacto complainant has

 compromised with the accused and they have come before this Court seeking to

 quash the FIR based on compromise. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.3170 of 2022 11. The case of the prosecution is that based on the complaint, a

 search was conducted at the ECR office of the accused and several seals,

 incriminating materials and several vehicles were recovered from the accused

 and the investigation is still pending. It is the case of the prosecution that it is a

 larger scam, where 18,000 victims have been cheated by the accused to the tune

 of Rupees Eighteen Crores and that in order to cover up the larger scam, the

 petitioners have entered into an unholy agreement with the defacto complainant

 and they are trying to close the case in the initial stage itself by way of a

 compromise quash. 12. In Parbatbhai Aahir v. State of Gujarat [AIR 2017 SC 4843], the

 Supreme Court held as follows:- compoundable. (3) In forming an opinion whether a criminal
 proceeding or complaint should be quashed in exercise
 of its jurisdiction under Section 482 , the High Court
 must evaluate whether the ends of justice would justify
 the exercise of the inherent power. (4) While the inherent power of the High Court has a
 wide ambit and plenitude it has to be exercised (i) to
 secure the ends of justice, or (ii) to prevent an abuse of
 the process of any court. (5) the decision as to whether a complaint or first
 information report should be quashed on the ground that
 the offender and victim have settled the dispute, revolves
 ultimately on the facts and circumstances of each case 7/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.3170 of 2022 and no exhaustive elaboration of principles can be
 formulate. (6) In the exercise of the power under Section 482 and while dealing with a plea that the dispute has been
 settled, the High Court must have due regard to the
 nature and gravity of the offence. Heinous and serious
 offences involving mental depravity or offences such as
 murder, rape and dacoity cannot appropriately be
 quashed though the victim or the family of the victim
 have settled the dispute. Such offences are, truly
 speaking, not private in nature but have a serious impact
 upon society. The decision to continue with the trial in
 such cases is founded on the overriding element of
 public interest in punishing persons for serious offences. (7) As distinguished from serious offences, there
 may be criminal cases which have an overwhelming or
 predominant element of a civil dispute. They stand on a
 distinct footing insofar as the exercise of the inherent
 power to quash is concerned. (8) Criminal cases involving offences which arise
 from commercial, financial, mercantile, partnership or 8/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.3170 of 2022 similar transactions with an essentially civil flavour may
 in appropriate situations fall for quashing where parties
 have settled the dispute. (9) In such a case, the High Court may quash the
 criminal proceeding if in view of the compromise
 between the disputants, the possibility of a conviction is
 remote and the continuation of a criminal proceeding
 would cause oppression and prejudice; and

 (10) There is yet an exception to the principle set out
 in Propositions (8) and (9) above. Economic offences
 involving the financial and economic well-being of the
 State have implications which lie beyond the domain of a
 mere dispute between private disputants. The High
 Court would be justified in declining to quash where the
 offender is involved in an activity akin to a financial or
 economic fraud or misdemeanour. The consequences of
 the act complained of upon the financial or economic
 system will weigh in the balance." 13. In the judgment referred above , the Hon'ble Apex Court, in clause

 (10) had held that economic offences involving the financial and economic 9/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.3170 of 2022 well-being of the State having implications which lie beyond the domain of a

 mere dispute between private disputants are exceptions to clause (8) and (9). The Apex Court has also held that the High Court would be justified in

 declining to quash where the offender is involved in an activity akin to a

 financial or economic fraud or misdemeanour, which is not private in nature. 14. It is a case of a large scam of financial and economic fraud and it

 is also submitted by the prosecution that the defacto complainant is one of the

 victims and there are other 18,000 other victims in this case and the total

 amount involved is more than Rupees Eighteen Crores. 15. In view of the above, that the case has been registered in respect

 of a larger scam, where public interest is involved, this Court is not inclined to

 quash the FIR in Crime No. 729 of 2021. Accordingly, this criminal original

 petition stands dismissed. 16. During the course of hearing, this Court had called for the CD file

 and perused the same. Though, it is stated by the petitioner that it is a large 10/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.3170 of 2022 scam, in the opinion of this Court, the investigation has not been properly

 conducted. The Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar Range is directed to

 look into the affairs and take steps to transfer the case for further investigation

 either by CCB, Chennai or by EOW, Chennai and the investigation shall be

 completed within a period of nine months from the date of receipt of a copy of

 this order. 28.04.2022
 rgi
 Index :Yes/No
 Internet:Yes/No

 To 1. The Inspector of Police,
 Neelankarai Police Station,
 Neelankarai,
 Kanchipuram District. 2. The Public Prosecutor,
 High Court, Madras. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.3170 of 2022 A.D.JAGADISH CHANDIRA.,J

 rgi Crl.O.P.No.3170 of 2022 28.04.2022 12/12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis