(Cause title taken from Case Information System)

 For Applicant : Mr. Abhishek Sinha, Senior Advocate through
 virtual mode along with Mr. Veer Verma,
 Advocate
 For Respondent/State : Dr. Saurabh Kumar Pande, Dy. A.G. along
 with Mr. Mayur Khandelwal, Panel Lawyer

 Hon'ble Shri Justice Ravindra Kumar Agrawal
 C.A.V. Order 1. This is the first bail application filed by the applicant under Section

Digitally 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for grant of
signed by
VEDPRAKASH
DEWANGAN
 regular bail to the applicant who has been arrested on 12.07.2024 2 for the offence under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 201 , 120-B of

 IPC, Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and

 Sections 4, 7, 8 and 11 of the Chhattisgarh Gambling (Prohibition)

 Act, 2022 and Section 4A of Public Gambling Act, registered at

 Economic Offence Wing/Anti-Corruption Bureau, Raipur,

 Chhattisgarh, in Crime No. 6 of 2024. 2. The prosecution case in brief is that, an FIR of Crime No. 112/2022

 registered on 29.07.2022 at Police Station Mohan Nagar, Durg

 (C.G.) under Section 4A of the Public Gambling (C.G. Amendment)

 Act, 1976, which was registered against five accused persons,

 namely, Alok Singh Rajput, Rampravesh Sahu, Kharag @ Raja

 Singh, Abhishek and Pintu, under Section 4A of the Public Gambling

 (C.G. Amendment) Act, 1976 and Section 420 , 120B of the IPC and

 also for Section 66D of Information Technology Act, 2000. The

 Enforcement Directorate had registered the Enforcement Case

 Information Report (hereinafter referred as 'ECIR') No.

 RPZ0/10/2022. On the secret information gathered by the officers of

 the ED, the raid was conducted on the premises of the accused

 persons in which it was found that a set with a laptop and they were

 collecting money by creating online IDs and through the said IDs

 they were placing bets for others through Mahadev Book, on Online

 cricket matches, horse racing. greyhound racing, kabaddi etc. Upon

 interrogation, the accused persons disclosed the names of two

 persons namely Abhishek and Pintu who taught them to procedure

 of creating the IDs and placing bets in various sports through the

 Mahadev Book. Initially, treating the FIR No. 112/2022 of P. S. 3 Mohan Nagar, Durg and final report dated 29.07.2022 as scheduled/

predicate offence, the respondent ED registered the ECIR No.

RPZO/09/2022 which was renumbered as ECIR No. RPZ0/10/2022

vide corrigendum dated 07.11.2022 issued by the ED.

*******In the said ECIR, FIR No. 206/2023 dated 02.06.2023

registered at P.S. Cyber Crime Vishakhapatnam Commissionerate,

Andhra Pradesh, FIR No. 37/2023 registered at P.S. Bhilai Bhatti,

District Durg (C.G.), FIR No. 86/2023 dated 27.02.2023 registered at

P.S. Chhawani, District Durg (C.G.), FIR No. 336/2023 dated

10.08.2023 registered at P.S. Gudhiyari, District Raipur (C.G.), FIR

No. 685/2023 dated 11.08.2023 registered at P.S. Khamtarai, District

Raipur (C.G.), FIR No. 6/2024 dated 04.03.2024 registered at EOW,

Raipur (C.G.) and FIR No. 206/2020 dated 24.09.2020 registered at

P.S. Burtola, Kolkata, West Bengal, have been included in the said

ECIR. *******On 20.10.2023, the ED filed its first prosecution complaint

against 14 accused persons, alleging that the online gambling app

in the name of Mahadev Online Book is established for illegal

betting in different live games like; poker, card games, chance

games, betting on cricket, badminton, tennis, football, etc. and also

to provide facility for playing several card games like; teen patti,

dragon tiger, virtual cricket games using cards, etc. It is also alleged

that the Mahadev Online Book advertised about these betting

websites through closed WhatsApp groups and Facebook pages. 4 *******During the investigation conducted by the ED, it comes in the

investigation that the promoters of the Mahadev Online Book,

namely Sourabh Chandrakar and Ravi Uppal, were running the said

illegal betting app through online mode and the tentacles of the

online betting app have been spread wide enough and the

promoters created a system of franchising the panels for illegal

online betting app within the Indian territory as well as at abroad.

The betting app is operated by various panel/branches, which are

sold in a small franchise by the promoters Sourabh Chandrakar and

Ravi Uppal through their associates. An elaborate system to receive

incoming money from the betting user and also to pay them back as

winning amount has been created in a well planned manner. They

created a system that the betting user cannot directly pay money on

the website and they need to contact on WhatsApp and deposit

money into bank accounts in India, which have been obtained by the

panel operators/promoters by way of deceiving and cheating the

peoples. All centres will tag him with a panel, which will share the

bank account details and create the user ID, allocate points/tokens

etc. The promoters keep nearly 70-75% of the profit of the panel

operations. A panel has an owner and workers who are usually four

in numbers. One person can own multiple panels and there was no

bar on number of panels being operated by one person. The head

office is at Dubai who creates ID and password for the panel

owners. The panel operator using the IDs can further create sub-IDs

for player/punters. The IDs are generally created on multiple

websites as depicted on the app of Mahadev online book. After 5 receiving the details of panel, the players/punters deposit the

minimum amount of Rs.100/- for online betting with no maximum

amount. All the games are rigged in a manner that overall, the panel

owners will not lose money. During the investigation, multiple panel

operators were raided, who were working under the Mahadev online

book and it came on record that the said betting syndicate was

generating proceeds of crime worth Rs.450 crores per month

through the panel operations. It also came in the investigation that

Sourabh Chandrakar and Ravi Uppal in the entire investigation to be

the kingpin of the betting empire and indulge in money laundering

with their associates. In the investigation, it also come that the said

panel operations was running with active support and connivance of

local police and politicians and after receiving illegal gratification,

they supported the said illegal betting racket by closing their eyes. It

also come that one ASI Chandrabhushan Verma who acted as

Liaisoner for the Mahadev online book promoters with political

executives of the Chhattisgarh State, who negotiated between them.

He was collecting Hawala payments made available by the

promoters of Mahadev book and distributing the same to the

bureaucrats/politicians for ensuring smooth operations of the illegal

betting websites. The funds have moved in and out of India to Dubai

through various channels. Involvement of a number of persons were

found during the investigation including the persons who engaged in

layering the proceeds of crime. *******The ED, during the investigation also caught hold the Hawala

kings namely Anil Kumar Dammani and Sunil Kumar Dammani. The 6 proceeds of crime generated by the main promoters are being

layered and invested in order to acquire assets abroad. Large

expenditure in cash is also being done in India for advertising the

betting websites to attract new users and franchises. During the

investigation, raids/searches were conducted at various places

through which the associates of promoters of Mahadev online book,

individuals associated with them, event organizers, panel operators

working on commission basis for Mahadev online book, family of the

promoters of Mahadev online book, Hawala operators. A huge

amount was seized and frozen during the searches.

*******During the investigation, it is also unveiled that ASI

Chandrabhushan Verma was having role of Chief Liaisoner for

Mahadev betting app in Chhattisgarh, Satish Chandrakar was

operating Mahadev panel and distributing funds at the behest of

Ravi Uppal, Anil Dammani and Sunil Dammani were knowingly

distributing funds for Mahadev betting app, Bheem Singh and

Aseem Das were involved in delivery of the Liaisoning money, Nitin

Tibrewal was engaged in layering the proceeds of crime through his

foreign entities and generation of illegal betting earning through sky

exchange, Amit Agrawal for layering the betting earning in land

transaction and Nitish Diwan for being involved in the betting

operations and assisting the main promoters of Mahadev online

book in their money laundering activities. *******During the investigation the involvement of the present

applicant is also found that he had played an active role in 7 laundering of proceeds of crime generated out of illegal operations

of Mahadev online book. He was holding assets in his name which

was acquired by the benefits of Mahadev online book. He was fully

aware of the illegal operations of Mahadev online book and despite

that he was holding bank accounts and operating these bank

accounts for routing funds. During the investigation, the mobile

phones of the present applicant was seized from which various

information was extracted. *******On 01.03.2024, the Enforcement Directorate have shared the

information to the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Economic

Offence Wing and Anti-Corruption Bureau, Raipur, Chhattisgarh

under the provisions of Section 66(2) of the PMLA-2002 and

disclosed the information about the ECIR No. RPZO/10/2022 and

subsequent complaint filed by it. In the said information, it has been

disclosed that the Mahadev online book has been running for illegal

betting in different live games like poker, card games, etc. and the

promoters of the Mahadev online betting app is regulating the said

app from its head office at Dubai. The promoters have given

franchisee of the said online betting app to various panel operators

to manage the business on day-to-day basis. Along with the

information, the ED annexed the documents available to them with

respect to the involvement of the accused persons in the Mahadev

online betting app. *******On the basis of letter dated 01.03.2024, the EOW/ACB

registered an FIR under the Crime No. 6/2024 on 04.03.2024 for the 8 offence under Sections 120-B , 34 , 406 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 of IPC, Sections 7 and 11 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (as

 amended by amendment of the year 2018), in which the present

 applicant has been named along with other accused persons.

 During the investigation, it was found that the applicant was involved

 in illegal business of Mahadev Online Book along with his brothers

 Arjun Singh Yadav and Bhim Singh Yadav by being associated with

 Ravi Uppal and Sourabh Chandrakar, who are the operators of

 Mahadev Online Book. The present applicant is also associated with

 the said Mahadev Book since 2021-2022 and used to arrange

 manpower, bank account for operation of illegal business. He also

 involved in operating a penal in other online gambling business app,

 like Reddy Anna and Fair Play. The applicant has earned the illegal

 money from Lotus-365, Raj D-1, M-45, Hisab-45 and other

 WhatsApp group. The present applicant obtained a penal named

 Rajveer-06 in the year 2023 by depositing lakhs of rupees in the

 account of management of Mahadev Book. He also received 5%

 commission by operating the penal of Mahadev Book. After

 considering sufficient evidence against him, he has been arrested

 on 12.07.2024 and charge sheet has been filed in the case. 3. Learned Senior Advocate appearing for the applicant would submit

 that the investigating agency has acted most arbitrarily and it had

 nothing, but ill-motivated and mala fide intention to implicate the

 applicant in offence. He is having no connection or association in

 any way either with the affairs of the business of Mahadev online

 book or has received the proceeds of crime. He would further submit 9 that the prosecution has failed to establish the link of present

applicant with the alleged offence. He would further submit that the

allegation against the present applicant in the final report that he

actively involved in panel operation of Mahadev Online Book and

received huge amount as his commission, but there is no concrete

evidence to that effect. The applicant has been arrested only on the

basis of suspicion, whereas he was unknown about the other

accused Ravi Uppal and Sourabh Chandrakar nor met him. The

ACB police have threatened the applicant and obtained his

signatures over certain papers and no mobile phone of the applicant

has been seized. The mobile phone which is shown to be seized

from the applicant, are actually not been seized from the applicant.

He would further submit that there is no evidence collected by the

prosecution that the mobile which is alleged to be seized from the

applicant is owned by him. There is no connection of the applicant

with that of Mahadev Online Book, Lotus-365 or Reddy Anna Book.

The prosecution agency has collected the electronic evidence, for

which there is no basis that the applicant is involved in the offence.

There is no ingredients of cheating in the material collected during

the investigation. No offence of either cheating, forgery of valuable

security, using as genuine a forge document, any criminal

conspiracy or even causing disappearance of any evidence. There

is no sufficient material against the applicant for commission of

offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act . *******The electronic evidence collected by the prosecution is very

weak type of evidence, on which there is no possibility to sustain 10 conviction of the applicant. There is no sufficient evidence in the

charge sheet against the applicant that he actively involved in illegal

earning through Mahadev Book. *******He would further submit that in the charge sheet it is alleged

against the present applicant that he gained an unfair economic

advantage by various illegal means, by providing accounts on online

gambling, which makes him liable to be punished for the alleged

offences, but there is no specific allegation against the applicant

relating to any illegal act. There is no person, who were cheated by

the applicant. There is no evidence that the applicant conspired with

the other co-accused persons. The applicant is in jail since

12.07.2024 and till date only charge sheet has been filed and even

the charges have not been framed and therefore, there is every

possibility of delay in trial. The long period of incarceration and in

view of the violation of his fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the applicant is entitled for

release on bail. *******In support of his submissions, he would rely upon the

judgment passed by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Satender Kumar

Antil v. CBI and another , ( 2022) 10 SCC 51, P. Chidambaram v.

Directorate of Enforcement , ( 2020) 13 SCC 791, Sanjay Chandra

v. CBI , (2012) 1 SCC 40, Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of

Enforcement, order dated 12.07.2024 passed in Criminal Appeal

No. 2493 of 2024, Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement ,

2024 SCC OnLine SC 1920, Siddharth v. State of Uttar Pradesh, 11 (2022) 1 SCC 676, Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P., 1994 Cr.L.J.

 1981, Kalvakuntla Kavitha v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024

 SCC Online SC 2269 and order dated 12.05.2022, passed by

 Coordinate Bench of this Hon'ble Court in MCRC No. 897 of 2022

 (Gurjinder Pal Singh v. State of C.G.) and submitted that looking

 to the period of his custody, he is cooperative during the entire

 investigation and there is no possibility of tampering with the

 witnesses or document as the investigation has already been

 completed. Therefore, the applicant may be enlarged on bail. 4. Per contra, learned counsel for the State vehemently opposed the

 submissions of learned counsel for the applicant and has submitted

 that during the investigation, it was found that the promoters of

 Mahadev Online Book, who had created an online platform as an

 alternative to illegal betting in various live games in place of offline

 betting and started betting through various websites through

 WhatsApp, Facebook and Telegram. From the illegal earning, about

 70-80% of the earning were kept by the promoters and the

 remaining amount was given to penal operators. Their turnover was

 about Rs. 450 Crores monthly through online betting app. The

 transaction of amount was through the bank accounts, which were

 opened on the basis of fake documents for transaction of the said

 illegal earned income. The huge cash amount was spent by the

 promoters of Mahadev Book App on advertisement of betting

 websites and for that they organized 'Star Studded' events, in which

 the various Bollywood celebrities were participated. Investments

 have been made in various companies, shell companies and stock 12 market and also in cryptocurrency. Another betting platform Sky

Exchange was also run by Harishankar Tibrewal from whose

possession the assets worth of Rs. 580 Crores were acquired

through illegal earning. *******It is also submitted by him that the present applicant is actively

associated with Ravi Uppal and Sourabh Chandrakar, who were the

operators of Mahadev Book. The present applicant was police

constable and is brother of Arjun Singh Yadav and Bhim Singh

Yadav, who are also the accused persons in the present case. They

being associated with the Ravi Uppal and Sourabh Chandrakar,

promoters of Mahadev Online Book betting website, operating the

penal of Mahadev Book. The present applicant was associated with

them since 2021-2022 and used to arrange manpower and bank

accounts for the operation of the penal of Mahadev Online Book. He

also associated with Reddy Anna Book and Fair Play betting app.

The present applicant has earned the illegal money by joining Lotus-

365, Raj D-1, M-45, Hisab-45 and other Whatsapp groups involved

in illegal business of betting app. The present applicant Sahadev

Yadav obtained a penal namely Rajveer-06 in the year 2023 for

depositing the huge amount in the account number of Mahadev

Book and the said penal was operated by the present applicant and

earned 5% of his commission. He being a public servant, received

lakhs of rupees as commission on his bank account No.

20064253517 of SBI branch Nehru Nagar, Bhilai. He also purchased

the Innova Crysta vehicle in the name of his wife Smt. Shweta

Yadav and the said fact has not been informed to his department. 13 From the statements of Vikram Singh, Kamlesh Gupta, Rakesh @

Lakheshwar Tandon, Purushottam Dewangan, Shailendra Singh

Parihar and Smt. Shweta Yadav (wife of the applicant), it clearly

reveals that the applicant is involved in illegal betting app. The

involvement of the applicant is further supported by the documents

of sale and purchase of immovable property, bank account

statements and mobile analysis reports. There is overwhelming

evidence against the applicant to connect him in the offence in

question and therefore he is not entitled for bail. He would also submit that when the EOW/ACB received an

information of cognizable offence, he has to register the FIR as per

the direction issued by Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Lalita

Kumari v. Government of Uttar Pradesh and Ors. (2008) 7 SCC 164. The ECIR is not an FIR, but is a complaint. He would further

submit that for commission of offence under Section 3 of PMLA, it is

not necessary that a person must also commit the predicate offence.

He would also submit that the involvement in the criminal activity is

the relevant consideration. A person can be held guilty in money

laundering, even if he is not named in the scheduled offence. In

support of his contention, he relied upon the case of Vijay Madanlal

Choudhary v. Union of India , 2022 SCC OnLine SC 929. In the

present case, the offence under the money laundering act is not akin

to the offence of IPC or the Prevention of Corruption Act . The

offence of money laundering is entirely different from the offence of

cheating or forgery of the valuable security/document. He would

also relied upon the judgment passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court 14 in the matter of State Through CBI v. Anil Sharma , (1997), 7 SCC

 187, in which the Hon'ble Supreme Court has considered that the

 custodial interrogation is a qualitative method of interrogation and

 ED has only shared certain information with the EOW/ACB, and it is

 for the EOW/ACB to interrogate the allegations of the information.

 Therefore, there is need to arrest to the applicant and to interrogate

 him. While considering the bail application, the allegations in the

 charge sheet against the applicant is the relevant consideration and

 the role of the accused and also the prima facie evidence available

 against him. In the present case, there is sufficient evidence

 available against the present applicant that he is involved in the

 alleged offence and looking to the seriousness of the offence, he is

 not entitled to be released on bail. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the

 material placed in the present case by both the parties. 6. For consideration of the bail application of the applicant, the Court

 need not go deep inside the merits of the case, but should consider

 the prima facie material against the accused in the case. The

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary case (supra) has observed in para 401 of its judgment that:- which means the Court has to see only if there is a
 genuine case against the accused and the
 prosecution is not required to prove the charge
 beyond reasonable doubt." 7. In the case of Satish Jaggi Vs. State of Chhattisgarh , (2007) 11

 SCC 195, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that "at the stage of

 granting of bail, the Court can only go into the question of prima

 facie case established for granting bail, it cannot go into the

 question of credibility and reliability of witnesses put up by the

 prosecution. The question of credibility and reliability of prosecution

 witnesses can only be tested during trial." 8. In the present case from the statement of Vikram Singh, the

 involvement of the present applicant is alleged that he is closely

 associated with Ravi Uppal and Sourabh Chandrakar, who were the

 promoters of Mahadev Book and Reddy Anna Online betting app.

 They invested the illegal money earned from betting app in various

 properties and vehicles. He regularly met with the present applicant

 at Kaushal Market and therefore he came to know that along with the

 present applicant, his two brothers Arjun Singh Yadav and Bhim

 Singh Yadav and others were also involved in Mahadev Book and 16 Reddy Anna Book. From the statement of Kamlesh Gupta is also to

the effect that he met him at Kaushal Market, where he introduced

with him and came to know about his illegal earning from Mahadev

Book and investment in the properties and vehicles. He also came to

know that his two brothers Arjun Singh Yadav and Bhim Singh Yadav

is also involved in illegal betting app of Mahadev Book, Reddy Anna

and Fair Play. From the statement of Rakesh @ Lakheshwar

Tandon, who was the domestic servant of the present applicant, it

comes that he witnessed the involvement of the applicant in illegal

online betting app and whenever he asked about the said business,

he scolded him. His two brothers Arjun Singh Yadav and Bhim Singh

Yadav were also involved in the same illegal business and they

invested the income of illegal business of online betting in property

and vehicles. Purushottam Yadav is the witness of the fact that he on

the instance of Vikram, submitted his bid for liquor shop and get the

liquor shop allotment at Junwani. The amount for the agreement as

well as security deposit, though was transferred in his bank account

by the said Vikram, but it was actually paid by the present applicant.

The said liquor shop went in loss and due to the reason that the

applicant is in jail, the rent of the said liquor shop could not be paid

up to the month of September, 2024. From the statement of Smt.

Shweta Yadav, who is the wife of present applicant, the involvement

of the applicant clearly reveals and she disclosed the entire business

affairs and involvement of the applicant in the Mahadev Online Book,

Reddy Anna and Fair Play. 9. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan Mohan

 Reddy Vs. CBI , reported in (2013) 7 SCC 439 has held in para 34

 and 35 of its judgment that

 "34. Economic offences constitute a class apart and
 need to be visited with a different approach in the
 matter of bail. The economic offences having deep-
 rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of
 public funds need to be viewed seriously and
 considered as grave offences affecting the economy
 of the country as a whole and thereby posing
 serious threat to the financial health of the country. 35. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind
 the nature of accusations, the nature of evidence in
 support thereof, the severity of the punishment
 which conviction will entail, the character of the
 accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the
 accused, reasonable possibility of securing the
 presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable
 apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with,
 the larger interests of the public/State and other
 similar considerations. 10. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) has observed in para 398 as under :- 11. Having considered the rival submissions made by respective parties,

 as also from the material produced in the present case, it is not

 acceptable that the present applicant did not know about the

 transactions of Mahadev online book and the money obtained by

 him. The information recovered from his mobile phone clearly

 demonstrates his association with the others, who associated with

 Mahadev Book and Reddy Anna Book. Denial by the applicant itself

 is not sufficient to consider prima facie that there is no mens rea of

 the applicant for the said offence either under the IPC, Chhattisgarh

 Gambling (Prohibition) Act, 2022 or Public Gambling Act, 1867 or

 under the Prevention of Corruption Act . Although the statements of

 the witnesses are required to be tested at the time of trial, but for the

 purpose of consideration of bail application, the statements of the

 witnesses are relevant for consideration of bail application of the

 applicant. 12. As has been discussed hereinabove, it cannot be said that there is

 no involvement of the applicant in the offence in question.

 Considering the role of the applicant in obtaining the money through

 illegal source, which is the proceeds of crime in the Mahadev book

 app, it is found that there is sufficient evidence collected by the

 EOW/ACB to prima facie show the involvement of the applicant in 19 the alleged offences. It is an organized crime having various facets

 of its complexion, therefore, further considering the nature of offence

 and material collected during the investigation, this Court is satisfied

 that there is prima facie evidence for believing that the applicant is

 involved in the offence, therefore, I am not inclined to release the

 applicant on bail. 13. Consequently, the present bail application filed by the applicant- Sahadev Singh Yadav is rejected. Sd/- (Ravindra Kumar Agrawal)
 Judge

ved