1 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

 आयकर अपीलीय अधिकरण "ए" न्यायपीठ मुंबई में। IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
 "A" BENCH, MUMBAI
 माननीय श्री अमरजीत स िंह, न्याययक सदस्य एवं
 माननीय श्री मनोज कुमार अग्रवाल ,लेखा सदस्य के समक्ष।
 BEFORE HON'BLE SHRI AMARJIT SINGH, JM AND
 HON'BLE SHRI MANOJ KUMAR AGGARWAL, AM
 (Hearing through Video Conferencing Mode)
 आयकरअपील सं./ I.T.A. Nos.5512-5516/Mum/2019
 (धििाारण वर्ा / Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15)
 Mr. Anil Agrawal (HUF) DCIT-Central Circle-3(4)
 बिाम/ Room No.1915, 19 Floor
 th
 2401-2402, Anmol Pride
 Off. Patel Auto, S.V. Road, Vs. Air India Building, Nariman Point
 Goregaon (W), Mumbai-400 062. Mumbai-400 021. स्थायीलेखासं ./जीआइआरसं ./PAN/GIR No. AACHA-9591-E
 (अपीलाथी/Appellant) : (प्रत्यथी / Respondent)
 Revenue by : Shri Rajeev Harit-Ld. CIT-DR
 Assessee by : Shri Rajiv Khandelwal &
 Shri Aakash Kumar-Ld. ARs

 सुनवाई की तारीख/
 : 12/01/2021
 Date of Hearing
 घोषणा की तारीख /
 : 05/04/2021
 Date of Pronouncement

 आदे श / O R D E R

Per Bench

1.1 Aforesaid appeals by assessee for Assessment Years (AY)
2010-11 to 2014-15 contest separate orders of learned first appellate
authority. However, facts and issues are more or less similar. Therefore,
the appeals were heard together and are now being disposed-off by way
of this common order for the sake of convenience and brevity. It is
admitted position that adjudication in any year would substantially apply
to all the other years also. M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

1.2 In the above background, the appeal for AY 2010-11 assails
the order of Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-51, Mumbai
[CIT(A)], Appeal No.CIT(A)-51/DCIT-CC 3(4)/IT-252/17-18 dated
15/07/2019 on following grounds of appeal: - Upon perusal of grounds of appeal, it is evident that the assessee has
challenged the validity of assessment framed u/s 153A on legal grounds
inter-alia by pleading that no incriminating material was found during the
course of search proceedings. The assessee has also assailed the
quantum additions on merits. 1.3 We have carefully considered the rival submissions, oral as
well as written, as made during the course of hearing before us. We
have also perused relevant material on record including orders of lower
authorities. The judicial pronouncements as cited during the course of
hearing have duly been deliberated upon. Our adjudication to the subject
matter of appeal would be as given in succeeding paragraphs. The Ld.
AR has assailed the impugned additions, inter-alia, by pleading that the
additions have been made merely on the basis of suspicion, conjectures
& surmises and on the basis of third-party statements without there
being any cogent / corroborative material on record to substantiate the
additions. The Ld. CIT-DR Shri Rajiv Harit, on the other hand, submitted
that the gains earned by the assessee were bogus in nature as per the
findings of investigation wing and therefore, the same has rightly been 4 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

added to the income of the assessee. The Ld. CIT-DR also filed written
submissions in support of the orders of lower authorities and relied upon
various judicial pronouncements. The statement recorded by the
department in case of various operators, stock-brokers, exit-providers
has been placed by way of separate paper-book. However, Ld. AR
contended that majority of these statements were never confronted to
the assessee during proceedings before lower authorities and no
opportunity of cross-examination, as demanded by the assessee, was
ever provided and therefore, the same would not be relevant for
adjudication since neither Ld. AO not Ld. CIT(A) has referred to these
statements / documents. In turn, reliance has been similarly been placed
on various judicial pronouncements to support the assessee‟s case.
These arguments, written submissions as well as case laws have duly
been considered by us while adjudicating the appeal 2. Assessment Proceedings
2.1 The material facts are that the assessee being resident HUF
was assessed for the year under consideration u/s 143(3) r.w.s 153 A of
the Act in view of the fact that the assessee was subjected to search &
seizure action u/s 132 on 09/04/2015. The original return of income was
filed by the assessee on 28/07/2010 at Rs.43.97 Lacs. On the date of
search, no assessment proceedings were pending against the assessee
and accordingly, it was a case of non-abated assessment year. The
main allegation of revenue was that the assessee introduced its own
unaccounted money in the garb of bogus Long-Term / Short-term Capital
Gains (LTCG / STCG). Accordingly, a search was carried out at
premises of Shri Anil Agarwal, Karta of assessee-huf on 09/04/2015. His
statement was recorded u/s 132(4) on 12/04/2015 during the course of 5 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

search proceedings. A copy of the same is on record and we have
perused the same. Shri Anil Agarwal is stated to be director in an entity
namely M/s Comfort Securities Ltd. (CSL). M/s CSL is stated to be a
registered stock broker with various stock exchanges. On the basis of
statement, it was alleged by Ld. AO that many of the paper / bogus
entities were allowed to become clients of M/s CSL and also allowed to
do trading in shares so as to provide accommodation entry of bogus
capital gains. Shri Anil Agarwal is stated to have become director, in
individual capacity, of an entity namely Splash Media & Infra Ltd. (SMIL)
in June, 2015. This entity is now known as Luharuka Media and Infra
Limited as is evident from orders of lower authorities.
2.2 In response to notice u/s 153A dated 08/08/2016, the
assessee offered the same return of income as originally offered at
Rs.43.97 Lacs. The statutory notices were issued in due course wherein
the assessee was directed to file the requisite details and information.
During assessment proceedings, it transpired that the assessee-HUF
sold shares of two entities namely M/s First Financial Services Limited
(FFSL) and M/s Splash Media & Infra Ltd. (SMIL) during various
previous years relevant to AYs 2010-11 to 2015-16. The shares of SMIL
have been sold during AYs 2010-11 to 2012-13 whereas the shares of
M/s FFSL have been sold during AYs 2013-14 & 2014-15. The gains
earned on sale of these scrips in the shape of Long-Term Capital Gains
(LTCG) were claimed to be exempt u/s 10(38) whereas Short-Term
Capital gains (STCG) earned on these shares were offered to tax at
concessional rate of 15% u/s 111A. However, the gains so earned by the
assessee in various years were treated as bogus and added to the
income of the assessee. In other words, the exemption claimed u/s 6 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

10(38) on LTCG and benefit of concessional rate of tax on STCG as
claimed was denied to the assessee. The stand of Ld. AO, upon
confirmation by Ld. CIT(A), is under challenge before us.
2.3 In this Assessment Year, the assessee reflected Short-Term
Capital Gain (STCG) of Rs.25.59 Lacs on sale of a scrip namely M/s
Splash Media & Infra Limited (SMIL). The 22502 number of shares were
stated to be purchased by the assessee on 27/03/2009 at aggregate
cost of Rs.18.79 Lacs which were sold between 19/08/2009 to
23/09/2009 for aggregate consideration of Rs.44.39 Lacs, yielding STCG
of Rs.25.59 Lacs which was offered at a concessional rate of 15%. In
support of purchase transactions, the assessee placed on record
purchase settlement bills issued by its broker M/s Comfort Securities
Limited (CSL), ledger extracts, demat transaction statement evidencing
delivery of shares in assessee‟s demat account and bank statement
evidencing payment / settlement of funds through banking channels.
Similarly, the assessee placed on record sales settlement bills, demat
transaction statement evidencing outward delivery of shares from
assessee‟s demat account, ledger extract of stock brokers and bank
statements evidencing receipt of funds through banking channels. The
transactions of sale as well as purchase were stated to be carried out
through registered stock-broker namely M/s Comfort Securities Limited
(CSL) on recognized stock exchange in online mechanism.
2.4 During the course of search proceedings, statement of Shri
Anil Agarwal (Karta of assessee-HUF) was recorded on 12/04/2015 u/s
132(4), a copy of which is on record. Shri Anil Agarwal submitted that his
concern M/s Comfort Securities Limited (CSL) had business nexus with
various concerns. M/s CSL was, inter-alia, stated to have been rendering 7 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

brokerage and consultancy services to M/s First Financial Services
Limited (FFSL) and M/s Splash Media & Infra Ltd. (SMIL). M/s CSL did
trading of various scrips including FFSL on behalf of its clients. However,
it was alleged by Ld. AO that the clients had booked heavy losses in the
trading of these shares since shares were purchased at high prices but
sold when the prices were extremely low. It was alleged that trading so
done was not a normal trading pattern. As against this, Shri Anil Agarwal
maintained that the clients willingly purchased the scrips and trading so
done by them was a pattern of transactions through the stock exchange
to obtain bogus Long-Term Capital Gain and Short-Term Capital Losses
by the beneficiaries. In reply to question nos. 8 & 9, the modus-operandi
adopted by entry operators to provide LTCG / STCL was enumerated.
Shri Anil Agarwal made admissions to have earned unaccounted
commission of Rs.20 Lacs and agreed to offer the same over and above
regular source of income. No reply was given against question of capital
gains earned from the scrip of FFSL by assessee-HUF. Subsequently,
he was also confronted with the fact that Shri Anuj Agarwal of Korp
Securities and Shri Pravin Agarwal of Gateway Financial Services Ltd.
(share broking firms based at Kolkata) have confirmed on oath that the
scrips of FFSL and SMIL were penny stock scrips. But no reply was
furnished by the assessee against the same. 2.5 On the basis of statement given by Shri Anil Agarwal, Ld.AO
concluded that Shri Anil Agarwal accepter his role as a facilitator of
arranging accommodation entries. The observations of Ld.AO, in para
3.3 of the order, were as follows:- There was bonus issue in the ratio of 3:1 on 23/12/2009. Later on the
shares were split in the ratio of 1:10 on 29/07/2010. Thereafter, there
was phenomenal rise in share price up-to 25/01/2011 despite the fact
that there was no corporate announcement to justify the sharp rise in the
prices which would lead to a conclusion that the price-rise was achieved
by manipulation and rigging through controlled trade in miniscule
volume. 2.10 The exit providers of the scrip of SMIL was identified which
are tabulated in para 7.4.1 of the order. The investigation report with
respect to some of the exit providers alleged that these were bogus
concerns being managed by various entry-provider groups. In
assessee‟s case, notices u/s 133(6) was issued to some of the exit
providers. However, no satisfactory reply was stated to be received
against the same. 2.11 On the basis of aforesaid facts, following conclusions were
drawn by Ld. AO in para-8 of the order:- The attention was drawn to the fact that shares were purchased through
recognized stock broker from stock exchanges and there was no
preferential allotment to the assessee in a pre-arranged process as
alleged by Ld. AO. Further, no violation regarding price manipulation was
found by any authority. The shares were listed and trading took place in
online mechanism and therefore, the assessee would not know the
identity of the exit providers. The assessee also demanded cross-
examination of exit-providers as per allegations of Ld. AO. It was 11 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

submitted that the shares were received in demat account of the
assessee and transactions of sale / purchase of the shares took place
through banking channels. The assessee also demanded whether there
was any mention in the report of the investigation wing that the assessee
had given cash to anybody for getting such long term capital gains and if
so, the opportunity to cross verify such person be provided to the
assessee. 2.13 However, Ld. AO maintained the allegations that the
assessee obtained accommodation entries in the form of bogus STCG
and the entire transaction was a colorable device to route unaccounted
income in the regular books of account. The assessee invested into
share of unknown entity whose financials would not justify the
investments. There was no reasonable justification of making the
investment. The share prices rose astronomically defying all logic of
stock market price movements. The accommodation entry providers
confirmed the modus-operandi and admitted that the said entity was
merely a paper-company used for the purpose of providing
accommodation entries. The exit-providers also admitted to buying the
shares at jacked up prices in lieu of cash payments. Though the
existence of documentation in support of sale and purchases of shares
was not under dispute, however, in the backdrop of various facts and
applying the principle of preponderance of probability in terms of
decision of Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Durga Prasad More
(82 ITR 540) and Sumati Dayal (214 ITR 801), it was to be concluded
that the assessee indulged in taking accommodation entries in the
nature of bogus STCG. In support, reliance was placed on various 12 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

judicial pronouncements which have already been enumerated in the
assessment order. 2.14 Finally, the position with respect to M/s SMIL was
summarized by Ld. AO in para 12.1 in the following manner: - Accordingly, estimated commission of Rs.2.66 Lacs was also added to
the income of the assessee. M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15 3. Appellate Proceedings
3.1 During appellate proceedings, the assessee, by way of
additional ground, contested the validity of assessment made u/s 153A
pursuant to search conducted u/s 132. It was submitted that undisclosed
income was to be determined only on the basis of evidence, material or
document found as a result of the search and since there was no
incriminating material found during search, the additions could not be
made. On the date of search on 09/04/2015, no assessment
proceedings were pending against the assessee. The capital gain
earned by the assessee was duly reflected in original return filed u/s
139(1) on 28/07/2010. Hence, this being non-abated assessment year,
the returned income could not be disturbed in the absence of any
incriminating material unearthed during the course of search action.
3.2 The Ld. CIT(A) noted that search action on Shri R.K.Kedia &
others on 13/06/2014 by investigation wing of Delhi exposed major scam
of providing accommodation entries of bogus LTCG to the beneficiaries
in a number of scrip including FFSL. The same led Kolkata investigation
wing to carry out detailed investigation of large number of stock-brokers
and entry operators wherein 84 scrips were identified as penny stocks.
During the search action on R.K.Kedia & group, the scrips of FFSL &
SMIL were identified as penny stocks wherein the prices were
manipulated to provide bogus LTCG to various beneficiaries. It was
alleged that the scrip of FFSL and SMIL were being controlled by Shri
Anil Agarwal which led to survey action on Shri Anil Agarwal. It was
admitted that as per the instructions of Shri R.K.Kedia, the scrip of FFSL
was being manipulated so as to provide bogus LTCG to the
beneficiaries. Moreover, share brokers namely Shri Anuj Agarwal of Korp 14 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

Securities and Shri Pravin Agarwal of Gateway Financial Services Ltd.
admitted that the scrips of FFSL and SMIL were penny stock scrips.
Therefore, heavy onus was on assessee to substantiate the
genuineness of gain earned on these scrips. The allegation of price
rigging would draw support from the fact that SEBI, in its final order
dated 02/04/2018, found FFSL, assessee, its Karta-Shri Anil Agarwal
and certain entities of the assessee group including M/s CSL to be guilty
of rigging the share prices and restrained / prohibited them from
accessing the market or trading for a further period of 3 years.
3.3 The admission made by the assessee in terms of decision of
Hon‟ble Apex Court in P. R. Metrani V/s CIT 2006 287 ITR 209 wherein
it was explained that books of account, documents, money, bullion,
jewelery or other valuable article thing or any statement recorded of the
persons searched may be used as evidence for any proceedings under
the act, would constitute incriminating material. Further, the statement
given on oath u/s 132(4) would have evidentiary value as held by
Hon‟ble Allahabad High Court in Gargi Devi Jwala Prasad V/s CIT
(1974 96 ITR 97) and Delhi High Court in Dhingra Metal Works (328
ITR 384). 3.4 In view of admission made by Shri Anil Agarwal that the scrip of
FFSL was being manipulated and keeping in view his role in LTCG scam
as well as the role of certain exit-providers who were the clients of M/s
CSL for which mandatory physical verifications were never carried out,
has to be considered as incriminating evidence to implicate the
assessee. Finally, legal arguments raised by the assessee, in this
regard, were dismissed with following observations: - Comfort Securities Ltd. for which mandatory physical verifications were never carried out.
As per the records of the assessee it was confirmed that the said exit providers are bogus
clients of M/s. Comfort Securities Ltd., who were introduced by the Directors of the said
Penny Stock companies. Further, it is also relevant to note that in the course of the survey
carried out on the assessee group along with the search action in the case of R K Kedia,
the statement of R K Kedia that Shri Anil Agarwal is the Scrip Operator for the scrips of
FFSL, SMIL, etc was confronted to Shri Anil Agarwal. The said statement of R.K. Kedia
was not a bland statement but was on the basis of incriminating material found from the
premises of R K Kedia, like parallel ledger accounts of the unaccounted transactions with
various business associates including Shri Anil Agarwal. On the issue as to whether an
incriminating statement can be considered to be an incriminating evidence for the purpose
of search assessment, it will be relevant to consider the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of P.R. Metrani v. CIT [2006] 287 ITR 209/157 Taxman 325 (SC). It has
been explained by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that the books of accounts, documents,
money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable article or thing and any statements recorded
of the persons searched may be used as evidence for any proceedings under the
Act. The relevant portion of the order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court is reproduced as
under: 5.8 Further, proceedings before the Income-tax authorities, as explained by the Allahabad
High Court in Gargi Devi Jwala Prasad v. CIT [1974] 96 ITR 97, are considered to be of
judicial nature where the issues are decided on the basis of evidences which can be oral or
documentary. Oral evidences, inter alia, include statements which are made before the
income-tax authority in relation to matter of inquiry and may include examination of the
assessee itself. Also, the statement on oath recorded in course of the search action u/s
132(4) has been held to be of evidentiary value by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case
of Dhingra Metal Works (328 ITR 384) and the Hon'ble Kerala High Court in the case of
Paul Mathews (263 ITR 101) as against statement on oath recorded u/s 133A.
5.9 In view of the aforesaid judicial decisions, the statement on oath recorded of Shri Anil
Agarwal wherein he admitted that the scrips of FFSL etc are being manipulated and also
explained his role in the LTCG scam as well as the role of certain exit providers, who were
the clients of M/s. Comfort Securities P. Ltd, for which mandatory physical verifications
were never carried out, has to be considered as incriminating evidence to implicate the
assessee. This is all the more essential considering that there were a number of
developments prior to the search action in the case of the assessee including various
searches carried out by the Department exposing the scam of bogus LTCG, the in-depth
investigation carried out by the SEBI to ascertain price rigging in the scrip of FFSL etc. !n 16 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

view of these developments, which were very much in the knowledge of the assessee, it is
but natural to assume that the assessee would have ensured that the incriminating material
to the extent, possible is either hidden or destroyed.
5.10 Further, earlier the search assessments used to be finalized u/s 158BC/BD which was
commonly called as Block Assessments. In the Block Assessments, additions could only
be made in respect to issues wherein undisclosed income was detected in course of the
search action on the basis of incriminating documents. The issues arising from the regular
returns of income were to be examined only during the regular assessment proceedings.
Now, it is more or less settled by the Hon'ble Courts that the same principles are also
applicable in respect of the search assessments finalised u/s 153A/C. It has been held by
the Hon'ble Courts that the non-abated assessments can be disturbed only if there is
incriminating material unearthed during the search action. Earlier in the Block
Assessments, the assessees used to challenge the additions made related to the
transactions for which entries had been duly made in the regular books of accounts on the
ground that the transactions have been duty recorded in the regular books and therefore
cannot be treated as undisclosed transactions. Such an issue came up before the Hon'ble
ITAT Ahmedabad in the case of N K Proteins Ltd (83 TTJ Ahd 904).The Hon'ble ITAT
Ahmedabad held that it cannot be said that even if the material found during the course of
search exposes the falsity of the entries made in the regular books of accounts, the
consequent concealed income cannot be assessed as undisclosed income in Block
Assessment. This decision of the Hon'ble ITAT Ahmedabad has also been approved by the
Hon'ble Gujarat High Court. In the instant case, the falsity of the claim of LTCG was
exposed in the search action and therefore, in principle the action of the AO of making the
said additions while completing the assessment u/s 153A rws 143(3), cannot be faulted.
5.11 In view of the above detailed discussion, no infirmity is found in the action of the AO in
undertaking said action u/s 153A rws 143(3) since there was sufficient evidence to
incriminate the assessee in the form of statements recorded of Shri Anil Agarwal wherein
he admitted that the scrips of FFSL, Rutron International Ltd., etc. were manipulated and
also explained his role in the LTCG scam as well as the role of certain exit providers who
were the clients of M/s. Comfort Securities P. Ltd. for which the mandatory physical
verifications were never carried out. Further, a parallel ledger account of the unaccounted
transactions of the Assessee Group with R.K. Kedia were found from the premises of R K
Kedia in course of his search action. Moreover, in the statement given by R K Kedia in his
search, Shri Anil Agarwal was identified as a Scrip Operator for the scrips of SMIL, FFSL,
etc and which was also accepted by Shri Anil Agarwal in the statement recorded in his
simultaneous survey action. Accordingly, the additional Grounds of Appeal being Ground
Nos. 6 to 9 are dismissed. 4. Assessee's Submissions to Ld. CIT(A) on merits
4.1 During appellate proceedings, the assessee drew attention to
the documentary evidences which were in the shape of purchase / sale
contract notes, copy of demat statement evidencing movement of
shares, copies of broker ledger showing purchase and sale transactions,
bank statements evidencing movement of funds through banking 17 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

channels, evidence in support of payment of securities transactions tax
(STT) etc. It was submitted that the transactions of shares took place
through registered broker on the stock exchange and therefore, there
would be no privity of contract between the assessee and the other
party. The assessee would not know the identity of the seller or
purchaser. The evidences and documents furnished by the assessee
were neither found to be false nor fabricated by Ld.AO. The Ld. AO
doubted the genuineness of sale transactions merely on the basis of
statement of various person recorded by the investigation wing. The
claim was rejected merely on suspicion and presumption. The Ld. AO
did not bring any material or evidence on record to falsify the claim of the
assessee or to hold that the transactions were bogus.
4.2 The assessee controverted the findings of Ld. AO by
submitting that in statement given u/s 132(4), it was stated that the
assessee had business nexus with various entities and provided
consultancy services to SMIL but did not said anything about bogus
gains in respect of shares of SMIL. He was not the director of SMIL at
the time of transaction under consideration. He merely explained the
modus operandi of providing bogus capital gains but in assessee‟s case,
the shares were directly transacted in stock exchange through registered
broker at prevailing market prices. The attention was also drawn to the
fact that the statement so made by the assessee was already retracted
which has grossly been ignored while making the assessment order and
the retracted statement could not be the basis of the assessment.
4.3 The action of Ld. AO was further assailed by submitting that
Ld. AO wrongly drew inference against the assessee on the basis of
enquiry made by investigation wing in respect of some of the buyers who 18 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

ultimately bought the shares sold by the assessee. The report of
investigation wing was specifically demanded by the assessee for further
comments and Ld. AO was requested to provide the list of beneficiaries
to whom the accommodation entries were provided but the same was
not done. Therefore, no adverse inference could be drawn against the
assessee on the basis of these statements. 4.4 It was submitted that in assessee‟s case, the transactions
were done though online trading platform through recognized stock
broker and therefore, it could not be presumed that there could be any
transfer of cash between the buyer and seller. Reliance was placed on
the decision of Hon‟ble Bombay High Court in CIT V/s Lavanya Land
Private Limited (83 Taxmann.com 161) which held that in the absence
of any material to show exchange of cash, no addition could be made.
The conclusions drawn by Ld. AO were based merely on suspicion,
surmises and hearsay. The suspicion howsoever strong could not
partake the character of legal evidence as per ratio of Hon‟ble Supreme
Court in Lalchand Bhagat Ambica Ram V/s CIT (1959 37 ITR 288).
The entire case of the revenue rested on the presumption that the
assessee ploughed back its own unaccounted money in the form of
bogus capital gains. However, this suspicion needs to be corroborated
with cogent evidences which was not done and therefore, the action of
Ld. AO could not be sustained under law. 4.5 Finally, it was submitted that since the assessee discharged
the primary onus of substantiating the transactions, the onus to disprove
the same would rest on revenue as held by Hon‟ble Supreme Court in
Krishanand V/s State of MP (1 SCC 816 SC). No such onus was
discharged by Ld. AO while making additions in the hands of the 19 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

assessee. The assessee also assailed the application of provision of
Section 68 by submitting that sale proceeds were received through
banking channels on sale of shares on stock exchange though stock
brokers and therefore, the same could not be treated as unexplained
cash credit in terms of Section 68. Findings of Ld. CIT(A) on merits
5.1 The Ld. CIT(A), in the background of factual matrix and
findings of investigation wing, concurred with AO‟s finding that the scrip
prices were rigged by way of synchronized trading so as to provide exit
to the beneficiaries at the desired higher prices for claiming probable /
unrealistic gains. The sharp rise in the prices of the scrip had no basis of
strong financials or any positive corporate announcement.
5.2 The investigation wing, on sample basis, carried out enquiries
in respect of six exit providers (para 6.14 of the impugned order) of SMIL
scrip wherein these entities were found to be controlled by various entry
providers. During appellate proceedings, information was sought from
BSE of the counter parties / exit providers to the assessee for the year in
SMIL scrip. The same has been tabulated in para 6.16 of the impugned
order. It was alleged that these exit providers were dummy exit
providers. However, upon careful consideration of the same, we find that the
persons who purchased SMIL shares from assessee during the year are
all individual whereas enquires as stated to be carried out by
investigation wing on six entities are corporate entities. Only one party
i.e. Shri Rakesh Bansal who has purchased 1000 shares has been
tainted by the investigation wing. M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

5.3 Proceeding further, the contents of statement given by Shri
R.K.Kedia during search operations on 13/06/2014 were noted in para
6.20 of the order. In the said statement, Shri R.K.Kedia, inter-alia,
admitted that FFSL and SMIL were paper companies being controlled
and managed by Shri Anil Agarwal. Thereafter during survey on
assessee group, statement of Shri Anil Agarwal was recorded. In reply to
question No.25, Shri Anil Agarwal denied having done business of
providing accommodation entries. However, he admitted to have helped
Shri Raj Kumar Kedia in getting capital gain accommodation entries by
purchase of shares of 3 entities viz. M/s Fact Enterprises Pvt. Ltd., M/s
First Financial Services Ltd and M/s Rutron International Ltd.
5.4 In para 6.25, the fact of SEBI investigation on unusual price
fluctuations in scrip of FFSL was noted. On the basis of the same, it was
opined by Ld. CIT(A) that the assessee, its Karta and various entities of
the assessee group including M/s Comfort Securities Ltd, and M/s
Comfort Intech Ltd, were all involved in the LTCG scam where they
manipulated the prices of the various penny stock scrips. The assessee
carried out all the transactions though M/s Comfort Securities Ltd. which
was also found to be involved in LTCG scam in the final report of SEBI in
the case of the scrip of FFSL. It was also a fact that the assessee group
has subsequently officially acquired substantial stake in SMIL. Thus it
was held that the assessee knowingly brought and sold shares of SMIL,
a penny stock company, solely for the purpose of claiming bogus
LTCG/STCG. 5.5 Therefore, the documentary evidences, in the opinion of Ld.
CIT(A), as furnished by the assessee were to be rejected applying the
test of human probabilities. It was also noted that the said statement 21 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

given by Shri Anil Agarwal was retracted immediately by filing an affidavit
on 14/04/2015. However, the same was to be ignored in the light of
enough material on record to negate the claim of the genuineness of the
transactions. Further, the statement given during the survey operation
was not retracted. For retraction to be valid the threat or coercion has to
be proved by the assessee and the onus was on assessee to prove that
the declaration was made under misconception of facts. The statement
made by Shri Anil Agarwal was not a bland statement but was on the
basis of parallel ledger account of the undisclosed cash transactions
undertaken as seized from the premises of Shri R.K.Kedia, The parallel
ledger account also included ledger account of Shri Anil Agarwal, Karta
of assessee, The subsequent retraction made was general in nature and
does not explain as to why the admission made in the earlier statement
was on account of misconception of facts. 5.6 Regarding the plea of cross-verifications of persons making
adverse statements as relied upon by Ld. AO, the same was to be
rejected in view of the fact that there were evidences indicating that the
transactions of capital gain were accommodation transactions through a
web of stock market and multiple dubious entities involved in a financial
crime of tax evasion. Since the gains were abnormal and the exemption
was claimed by the assessee, onus to prove the genuineness of the
same was on the assessee and the assessee was free to produce the
said persons as part of his defense. The fact that the appellant has failed
to produce any such person involved in the transaction clearly shows
that it has no bona-fide case in the matter. The persons whose
statements were relied upon by Ld. AO were examined by the
Investigation Wing and there were very elaborate and detailed 22 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

statements in that regard and the assessee was not able to rebut a
single affirmation. Therefore, to ask for a physical presence of the
persons is only to delay the matter and no basis to justify the same could
be brought out by the assessee and therefore, the said request was
rightly not been accorded to by Ld.AO. Further, large number of people
have been involved in this dubious activity and for the department to be
expected to make all the persons to be present in each and every case
and at multiple locations all over the country is virtually impossible and
the department could not be expected to do an impossible act.
5.7 The assessee‟s plea that the trades took place on screen
based system and therefore, it would be wrong to presume that the
assessee was provided a profitable exit by the exit providers, was also
rejected by observing that online trading by itself could not be
sacrosanct, if the cumulative facts of the case points towards large scale
manipulation of the same as observed by Hon‟ble Supreme Court in
SEBI V/s Kishore R. Ajmera (2016 6 SCC 368) and again reiterated in
SEBI V/s Rakhi Trading Pvt. Ltd. [2018] 207 Com Cases 443 (SC).
5.8 Proceeding further, Ld. CIT(A) observed that the assessee
has also not been able to explain the unusual increase in the prices of
the scrip of SMIL and also could not justify investment decision in the
scrip and therefore, the claim was rightly rejected as held in various
judicial pronouncements and in the background of SEBI order dated
02/04/2018 which found the assessee, its Karta, M/s Comfort Securities
Limited and other entities of assessee group guilty of manipulating the
scrip of FFSL and restrained/debarred them from accessing the market
or trading for a period of 3 years. Finally, the additions were upheld with
following observations: - 6.43 In view of the aforesaid discussion, the assessee's claim of having received
 consideration of Rs. 44.39.566/- on alleged sale of 22,502 shares of SMIL is found to be
 dubious. As noted earlier, the counter parties of sale of shares by the assessee have
 been found to be dummy entities with hardly any worth and therefore, the same have
 rightly been added by the AO as unexplained cash credit u/s.68 of the I-T Act. It is a
 settled position of law that in respect of a credit entry, the onus is on the assessee to
 establish (i) identity of the investors, (ii) their creditworthiness and (iii) genuineness of
 the transactions. In the instant case, the assessee has not been able to explain the
 credits arising from alleged sale of shares of FFSL. Therefore, the same is liable for
 addition u/s.68. Similarly, the action of the AO of making addition u/s. 69C of Rs.
 2,66,374/- on account of the unexplained commission expenditure incurred @6% for
 availing the accommodation entries of STCG also cannot be faulted and is confirmed.
 Accordingly, Ground Nos. 1 to 4 of the appeal are dismissed. Aggrieved as aforesaid, the assessee is in further appeal before us. 6. Our findings and Adjudication
6.1 So far as the material facts are concerned, we find that the
assessee has sold 22502 shares of a scrip namely SMIL during the year.
The shares were purchased on 27/03/2009 at cost of Rs.18.79 Lacs and
sold during the period 19/08/2009 to 23/09/2009 for aggregate
consideration of Rs.44.39 Lacs, thereby yielding short-term capital gain
of Rs.25.59 Lacs in the hands of the assessee. The aforesaid gain has
duly been reflected by the assessee in its original return of income.
During the year, the assessee has disclosed short-term gain of Rs.43.02
Lacs on various scrips including gain on this scrip. Similarly, net Long-
Term Capital gains have been reflected on other scrips also. The
Balance Sheet of the assessee reveals that it has year-end investment in
shares for Rs.93.44 Lacs and another investment of Rs.103.50 Lacs in
share warrants. The perusal of the Balance Sheet would show that a
substantial portion of assessee‟s capital has been ploughed back by way
of investments. On the basis of all these facts, it could very well be
concluded that the impugned transactions are not isolated transactions 24 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

carried out by the assessee rather the assessee is a habitual investor
and earn major part of its income from investment activities.
6.2 Undisputedly, the purchase transactions as well as sale
transactions have taken place through online platform of stock
exchanges through registered stock broker. These transactions have
been subjected to Securities Transaction Tax (STT). The transactions
are duly evidenced by contract notes issued by assessee‟s share-broker
M/s CSL, demat statement evidencing movement of shares, bank
statements evidencing movement of funds through banking channels.
The sale transactions are evidenced by sale contract notes. The sale
consideration has duly been received through banking channels and the
shares have moved out of assessee‟s demat account. All these
documents have duly been furnished by the assessee before Ld. AO.
The same has also been placed before us in the paper-book (Page nos.
63 to 93 of assessee‟s paper-book). No defect or discrepancy has been
pointed out by any of the lower authorities in assessee‟s documentation.
All these evidences as well as documentary evidences remain
uncontroverted before us also and no defect has been pointed out in the
same. The Ld. AO has also accepted this fact in the assessment order.
Upon perusal of all these documents, it is quite discernible that the
assessee had furnished all the requisite documentary evidences to
substantiate the transactions and discharged the primary onus as
required under law to establish the genuineness of the gains so earned
during the year. Therefore, the onus had, thus, shifted on revenue to
disprove assessee‟s claim and establish with cogent evidences that the
transactions were non-genuine transactions through which assessee‟s
unaccounted money has flown back to assessee in the garb of bogus 25 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

capital gains. However, we find that except for third-party statements,
there is nothing in the kitty of the revenue to dislodge assessee‟s claim.
No exchange of cash between the assessee and the various exit
providers could be proved. In the absence of such a fact, additions could
not be sustained as held by Hon‟ble Bombay High Court in CIT V/s
Lavanya Land Private Limited (83 Taxmann.com 161). Further, no
link between the assessee and alleged exit-providers could be
established by Ld. AO. In fact, during appellate proceedings, the details
of persons who bought assessee‟s shares was obtained form stock
exchange. All these persons were individuals and not corporate entities
as alleged by Ld.AO and identified by investigation wing as entities
belonging to various entry providers. Therefore, the allegation that the
shares were purchased by paper entities could also not be sustained.
6.3 So far as the observations of Ld. AO as to financial and
profitability of SMIL is concerned, we find that the sales transactions
have taken place in online mechanism through recognized stock
exchange wherein the identity of the buyer would not be known and
there would be no privity of contract between the assessee and
prospective buyers of shares. In online mode of trade, the prices would
be guided by the buyer willing to buy the shares at certain prices and the
seller willing to sell the shares at certain prices. The prices would be
guided more by the market forces rather than the financials or other
parameters. There would be buyers and sellers lining up on either side of
a potential trade; one party willing to part with ownership and other party
willing to acquire the ownership. When both the parties would agree
upon a price, the trade is matched and that price would become new
market quotation. Therefore, the financials of underlying entities, in such 26 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

cases, would lose much relevance in so far as the price movement of
scrip is concerned. Nothing adverse could be drawn against the
assessee on the basis of the same. In fact, Shri Anil Agarwal has
become director of this entity on 24/06/2015 and this entity is said to be
engaged in real estate development having projects at Mumbai. Hence,
this entity could not be said to be merely a dummy entity. Further, the
impugned transactions have taken place much before the period when
Shri Anil Agarwal has become director of SMIL. Hence, the aforesaid
observations as well as conclusion of Ld. AO would not be much
germane as to the adjudication of the issue. 6.4 Proceeding further, it could be observed that the primary
reason to doubt the genuineness of assessee‟s transactions is search
action findings of the investigation wing, Delhi in the case of Shri
R.K.Kedia & group. A copy of statement given by Shri R.K.Kedia is
available in the department‟s paper-book. In the statement on oath made
by Shri R.K.Kedia between 13/06/2014 to 16/06/2014, an admission was
made that FFSL and SMIL was being managed and controlled by entry
provider Shri Anil Agarwal. It has also been alleged by the revenue that
incriminating material was found from the premises of Shri R. K. Kedia
which was in the shape of parallel ledger accounts of the unaccounted
transactions with various business associates including Shri Anil
Agarwal. However, the aforesaid statement / incriminating material,
which form the very basis to deny assessee‟s claim, was never
confronted to the assessee, as demanded by it. No opportunity to cross-
examine the persons making adverse statement was ever provided to
the assessee. The failure to do so would make the additions
unsustainable as per settled legal position. M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

Upon perusal of statement of Shri R.K.Kedia, it could also be noted that
assessee-huf has nowhere been mentioned as an entity which has
derived bogus capital gains. We find that Ld. AO, referring to the search
proceedings in the case of Shri R.K.Kedia, had issued show-cause
notice to assessee on 23/11/2017 which was duly responded to by the
assessee through its Chartered Accountant on 30/11/2017. The
assessee replied to each and every query raised by Ld. AO. At the same
time, the assessee demanded details of brokers who gave the statement
that the assessee has taken accommodation entries and requested
Ld.AO to provide cross-examination. Similar request was made to cross-
examine the alleged exit providers. Vide para-6 of the reply, the
assessee also demanded a copy of investigation wing, Kolkata which
has allegedly mentioned that the assessee had given cash to anyone for
getting capital gains with a request of cross-examination of those
persons. It was specifically asked whether the assessee was named by
any broker and operator and if so, the assessee be allowed cross-
examination such persons. However, the aforesaid document as well as
cross-examination was never provided by Ld. AO despite the fact that
the said material / statement formed the very basis of Ld. AO‟s allegation
/ conclusion that the gains earned by the assessee were bogus in
nature. 6.5 Evidently, the whole basis of disregarding assessee‟s
transactions is the findings rendered by investigation wing in the case of
Shri R.K.Kedia and various operators, entry providers and stock brokers.
However, there is nothing in the orders of lower authorities which would
prove the fact that the assessee-huf was so mentioned in the statements
made by any of these persons; rather the basis of additions is the 28 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

general observation / conclusion that the scrip of SMIL was penny stock
entity. However, these statements are not backed by any cogent
corroborative material on record to establish the assessee‟s involvement
in price rigging of shares of SMIL. No collusion between the assessee
and alleged entry providers or operators or exit providers is shown to
have existed. Another noteworthy point is that no opportunity to cross-
examine the persons making adverse statement was provided to the
assessee despite being specifically pointed out before lower authorities.
There is no admission or evidence based finding that any cash got
exchanged between the assessee and any of the alleged bogus entities.
It is trite law that no additions could be made merely on the basis of
suspicion, conjectures or surmise. The addition thus made purely on the
basis of third-party statement recorded at the back of the assessee could
not be sustained in the eyes of law unless the same are confronted to
the assessee and the same are backed by any corroborative material.
No effective investigation is shown to have been carried out by Ld. AO to
dislodge the assessee‟s claim by bringing on record cogent evidences as
well as confronting the same. However, except for general allegations as
narrated in the investigation wing report, there is no evidence which
would link assessee‟s involvement in jacking up the prices of the shares
with a view to earn artificial gains. 6.6 The failure to confront adverse material and provide cross-
examination of persons making adverse statement would grossly breach
the principles of natural justice which would make the additions fatal in
the eyes of law as per the decision of Hon‟ble Apex Court in
Kishanchand Chellaram V/s CIT (125 ITR 713) and also in M/s
Andaman Timber Industries V/s CCE (CA No.4228 of 2006 dated 29 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

02/09/2015) wherein it has been held that not allowing the assessee to
cross-examine the witnesses by the adjudicating authority though the
statement of those witnesses were made the basis of the impugned
order, is a serious flaw which makes the order nullity in as much as it
amounts to violation of principal of natural justice because of which the
assessee was adversely affected. Similar is the ratio of decision of
Hon‟ble Bombay High Court in H.R.Mehta V/s ACIT (387 ITR 561). As a
matter of fact, the decision of Hon‟ble Allahabad High Court in Gargi
Devi Jwala Prasad V/s CIT (1974 96 ITR 97) as referred to by Ld.
CIT(A), also support the proposition that the principles of natural justice
are applicable to assessment proceedings. The elementary principle of
natural justice is that the assessee should have knowledge of the
material that is going to be used against him so that he may be able to
meet it. 6.7 The Ld. CIT-DR has submitted that the statement of Shri
Chandrakant Mane & Shri Nirmal Singh Mertia (directors of FFSL) was
confronted to the assessee by way of question nos. 11 & 12 in statement
recorded from Shri Anil Agarwal on 27/08/2015. However, we find that
the assessee, in reply, has denied having known these persons.
Moreover, no opportunity to cross-examine these persons has ever been
provided to the assessee. The statement of Shri Vicky Agarwal & Shri
Hitesh J. Kanjar of M/s CSL, as placed in the paper-book by Ld. CIT-DR,
is statement made during survey operations, which on standalone basis
would not hold much evidentiary value. Moreover, upon perusal of the
same, we find that none of these statements implicate assessee as the
beneficiary of bogus capital gains. Similarly, the statement of Shri Anuj
Agarwal of Korp Securities Ltd. recorded on 30/03/2015 and statement 30 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

of Shri Pravin Kumar Agarwal of M/s Gateway Financial Services Ltd.
recorded on 10/02/2015 are statements made during survey operations
and the same do not name the assessee-huf to be the beneficiary of
bogus capital gains. The statement of remaining share-brokers / exit
providers as placed by Ld. CIT-DR in the paper-book was neither
confronted to the assessee nor an opportunity of cross-examination have
ever been provided to the assessee and therefore, these are to be
disregarded. Further, these statements have not been substantially
referred to by Ld. AO or Ld. CIT(A) in their respective orders while
adjudicating the issue and therefore, would not carry much weight at this
stage of appellate proceedings. In our considered opinion, merely
because the scrip of SMIL has been alleged as a penny stock, the same
alone would not be sufficient to taint the gains earned by the assessee-
huf unless a link or assessee‟s collusion with the entry / exit providers
was established by the revenue. The conclusions drawn by Ld. AO are
merely on the basis of statement taken at the back of the assessee.
Further, the statement made during survey operations, unless backed by
corroborative material, would not hold much evidentiary value. The copy
of report of investigation wing, Kolkata, as demanded by the assessee,
was also never provided. Therefore, reference to all these statements by
Ld. CIT-DR, in our considered opinion, would fail to bolster the case of
the revenue. 6.8 Another argument raised by Ld. CIT-DR is that the assessee
has carried out all the trading transactions through its own group concern
M/s CSL which is controlled and managed by Karta of assessee-huf and
therefore, the demand of cross-examination defy any reasoning.
However, as noted by us, the primary reason to trigger addition in the 31 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

hands of the assessee is search findings in the case of Shri R.K.Kedia
Group wherein it has been submitted that SMIL and FFSL were penny
stock. However, it was nowhere admitted that the gains earned by the
assessee-huf were also tainted. The Karta of assessee-huf also did not
admit the same. Therefore, this plea is misplaced. Similarly, the plea that
certain additions of unaccounted commission has been made in the
hands of M/s CSL which has been accepted, would also not carry much
weight to decide the genuineness of gains earned by assessee-huf. The
Ld. CIT-DR also advanced argument to submit that the report of
investigation wing, Kolkata was uploaded on the internet and hence,
there could be no grievance to the assessee by non-furnishing of the
same. However, the said plea would not meet our approval in view of the
fact that the adverse material as well as cross-examination was
specifically demanded by the assessee and Ld. AO was under an
obligation to do so to sustain additions in the hands of the assessee.
6.9 The proposition that that additions made purely on the basis
of suspicious, conjectures or surmises could not be sustained in the eyes
of law stem from the decision of Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Omar Salay
Mohamed Sait V/s CIT (1959 37 ITR 151) wherein it was held that the
suspicion however strong could not partake the character of legal
evidence as held by Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Umacharan Shaw &
Bros. V/s CIT (1959 37 ITR 271). The additions made on mere
presumptions could not be sustained and there must be something more
than mere suspicion to support the assessment as per the decision of
Hon‟ble Apex Court in Dhakeshwari Cotton Mills Ltd. V/s CIT (26 ITR 775). The assessment should not be based merely on suspicion or 32 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

guess work but on legitimate material from which reasonable inference
of income could have been drawn. 6.10 So far as alleged admission by Shri Anil Agarwal is
concerned, we find that the search action on Shri R.K.Kedia group
triggered survey action on M/s CSL on 10/04/2015 wherein statement of
Shri Anil Agarwal was recorded. In the statement, It was submitted that
M/s CSL was acting as stock-broker in various stock exchanges and
stated to have provided brokerage and consultancy services to many
entities including FFSL and SMIL. In reply to question No.21, it was
submitted that KYC of the customers is regularly verified. Nothing
adverse is admitted so far as the gains earned by assessee-huf is
concerned. Subsequently, a search action was carried out by
department in the case of the assessee-huf on 09/04/2015 wherein
statement on oath of Shri Anil Agarwal was recorded u/s 132(4) on
12/04/2015. A copy of the same is on record. In the statement, it was
reiterated that M/s CSL provided brokerage and consultancy services to
many entities including FFSL and SMIL. Shri Anil Agarwal admitted to
have known directors of these two entities. Regarding losses suffered by
clients of M/s CSL in trading of various scrips including FFSL and SML, it
was submitted that the transactions was a pattern of transaction through
stock exchange to obtain bogus LTCG and Short Term capital losses by
the beneficiaries. In reply to question No.8, the modus-operandi of bogus
LCTG / STCL entry obtained by the beneficiary was explained. However,
the same is general elaboration and do not taint the transactions carried
out by the assessee-huf. Regarding role of Shri Anil Agarwal, it was
submitted that he introduced the directors of FFSL and Rutron
International Ltd. to three individual namely Shri Paras Chaplot, Shri 33 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

Pankaj Shah and Shri Vinay Jain who were primarily engaged in
providing entry of LTCG. Some clients contacted Shri Anil Agarwal to
obtain bogus LTCG, who were then introduced to the three entry
providers. The clients introduced by the three entry providers became
clients of M/s CSL and KYC documents were obtained. However, no
physical verification of the premises was stated to have been done. The
prices were rigged to provide entry of LTCG / STCL to the beneficiaries.
However, there is no admission as to the fact that assessee‟s gains were
also obtained in such a manner. In reply to question No.12, Shri Anil
Agarwal has offered an additional brokerage income of Rs.20 Lacs on
account of cash commissions. No reply to question No.13 has been
given wherein a question was put as to LTCG earned on sale of scrip of
FFSL. Upon perusal of the same, it could be gathered that Shri Anil
Agarwal has not made any admission that the gains earned by the
assessee-huf on sale of shares of SMIL and FFSL were bogus in nature.
Proceeding further, it is to be noted that this statement also has been
retracted immediately by way of an affidavit under the cover of letter
dated 14/04/2015 by assessee to DGIT(Inv.), Mumbai, inter-alia, on
account of the fact that the earlier statement was given under threat and
undue influence by pressure. The retraction within such short span of
time would drastically reduce evidentiary value of the statement
particularly in view of the fact that the statement made on 12/04/2015 is
not backed up by any corroborative incriminating material as found
during the course of search operations. Therefore, firstly it could not be
said that there was admission as to bogus nature of the transactions
carried out by the assessee-huf and secondly, the statement made by 34 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

the assessee, unless backed up by corroborative material, could not
form the sole basis of making additions in the hands of the assessee.
It transpires that another statement was recorded from Shri Anil Agarwal
on 27/08/2015 during the course of assessment proceedings. In reply to
question No.21, the assessee denied having indulged in providing
accommodation entries. Shri Anil Agarwal maintained that M/s CSL
provided consultancy services to FFSL. He also denied having met Shri
Chandrakant Mane (director of FFSL). He also denied having
manipulated share prices of SMIL. It was further submitted that entire
process of trading took place in online mechanism through the stock
exchange platform. He also denied having carried out any
accommodation entries. Therefore, there is no admission by Shri Anil
Agarwal in this statement also which is related to gains earned by
assessee-huf. 6.11 So far as the SEBI report dated 02/04/2018 is concerned, the
same is not in respect of scrip of SMIL. In fact SEBI, vide its letters dated
31/10/2017 & 11/10/2017 as written to the department has clearly
mentioned that there was no violation of SEBI Act or regulation in case
of SMIL. Therefore, the same would not be of much relevance for this
year. 6.12 Another important aspect to be noted is that the assessee
was subjected to search action on 09/04/2015. The return for AY 2010-
11 was already filed by the assessee on 28/07/2010 wherein capital
gains earned during the year were duly disclosed. The case was not
picked up for scrutiny. The time limit to issue notice u/s 143(2) for the
year had already expired on 30/09/2011. No proceedings were pending
against the assessee for this year on the date of search. Hence, it was 35 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

non-abated year. Therefore, the addition, which could have been made,
was to be only with respect to any incriminating material found during the
course of search. We find that there is nothing on record which would
show that any such material was found from the possession of the
assessee during search. In fact, Ld. CIT(A) has rejected this plea by
observing that the statement made by the assessee during search
proceedings, in the backdrop of findings of investigation wing and the
statements made by Shri R.K.Kedia and certain share-brokers of Kolkata
(Shri Anuj Agarwal during survey on Korp Securities on 31/03/2015 and
Shri Praveen Kumar Aggarwal during survey on Gateway Financial
Services Ltd. on 11/02/2015), would constitute incriminating material.
However, it is to be noted that all these statements were recorded well
before the date of search on assessee and for assessee‟s case, these
statements could not be said to be incriminating material found during
the course of search. The report of investigation wing, Kolkata identifying
32 stockbrokers with respect to 84 scrips, as referred to by the lower
authorities, was received on 27/04/2015 i.e. much after the date of
search on assessee and therefore, the same would also could not be
said to be incriminating material found during the course of search on
assessee. The Ld. CIT-DR has pointed out that a survey action was
conducted u/s 133A on FFSL and many incriminating material was found
therein which would constitute incriminating material to implicate
assessee. However, we are unable to accede to this plea since this
material could not be said to have been found during search on
assessee-huf. Secondly, this material has been referred to in the
statement of Shri Chandrakant Mane. The Karta of assessee-huf has all
along denied having ever met Shri Chandrakant Mane. Therefore, this 36 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

plea would not hold much water. The Ld. CIT-DR has also pleaded that
the issue of incriminating material was raised for the first time before Ld.
CIT(A) and Ld. AO had no occasion to deal with this issue during the
assessment proceedings. We find that additional ground, being legal
ground, could be taken-up by the assessee for the first time before
appellate authorities. The ground was validly admitted and delved into by
Ld. CIT(A). No infirmity could be found in the action of Ld. CIT(A) in
adjudicating the same. So far as the incriminating material in the form of assessee‟s own
statement is concerned, we find that firstly no admission as alleged by
lower authorities was made and secondly, the said statement stood
retracted immediately on 14/04/2015. Therefore, since the statement
stood rejected immediately after making thereof, the same would lose
substantial evidentiary value. In such a case, the onus would be on
revenue to establish that the earlier admission made was backed up by
some cogent / corroborative material on record and the retraction was
not valid one. However, we find that there is no such material with the
revenue which would corroborate assessee‟s statement that the gains
were bogus in nature. Any statement on oath, to be valid, has to be
supported by corroborative evidences. Thus, the statement made by the
assessee, in our considered opinion, could not be considered as
incriminating material which would justify additions in the hands of the
assessee. The proposition that no addition could be made in the case of non-
abated assessment except with reference to incriminating material found
during search action has been expounded by Hon‟ble Bombay High
Court in CIT V/s Continental Warehousing Corporation (Nhava 37 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

Sheva) Ltd. 374 ITR 645. The ratio of this decision has recently been
applied by coordinate bench, on similar facts and circumstances, in the
group case of Smt. Kalpana Mukesh Ruia V/s DCIT & ors. (ITA
No.6519/Mum/2019 & ors) order dated 31/12/2020. In this decision, the
coordinate bench, referring to another decision of Tribunal in Shri
Vijayrattan Balkrishan Mittal Vs. DCIT & ors. (ITA no. 3427 to
3429/Mum/2019 dated 01/10/2019, held as under: - 42. A reading of the above makes it clear that it was expounded that in case of
assessments which have attained finality no addition under section 153(A) can be
done without seized incrementing material. In this regard, the learned departmental
representative and learned CIT appeals have tried to make out a case that in the
present cases before us the earlier assessments were not under section 143 (3).
Hence the ratio from honourable jurisdictional High Court decision will not apply
here. The learned departmental representative has mentioned that honourable High
Court has referred about assessments which have been finalized. 43. In our considered opinion, the honourable jurisdictional High Court has never
mentioned that it is only assessment which has been completed under section
143(3) that addition under section 153(A) cannot be done without reference to
incriminating seized material. Honourable jurisdictional High Court has clearly
mentioned that it is those assessments which are unabated, that is not pending, to
which the above said ratio will apply. Assessments which are not pending are not
only those which have been completed under section 143(3) but also those for
which the time for issuing notice under section 143(2) have already elapsed. In other
words the references is to those assessments in whose case assessment under
section 143 (3) cannot now be done. It is not at all the case of the revenue that in
the appeals which have been claimed as unabated here there was time for
assessment under section 143(3). In this view of the matter, in our considered
opinion, the submission of the learned counsel of the assessee succeeds that
addition in the case of unabated assessment without reference to incriminating
seized material for assessment u/s.153(A) is not sustainable on the touchstone of
above said honourable jurisdictional High Court decision. Therefore, the learned CIT
appeals and the learned departmental representative plea in trying to distinguish the
same by reference to Hon‟ble Delhi High Court decision and honourable Supreme
Court decision in the case of Rajesh Jhaveri (supra) doesn‟t succeed. 44. It may not be out of place here to mention that it is specifically provided in
section 153A "that assessment or reassessment if any relating to any relevant
assessment year or years referred to in this subsection pending on the date of
initiation of search under section 132 or making of requisition under section 132A as
the case may be shall abate." This makes it further abundantly clear that only those
assessments which are pending abate. Hence sanguine provisions of the act read
with honourable jurisdictional High Court decision as above make it abundantly clear
that the assessments which do not abate and assessment and addition under
section 153 A without reference to incriminating seized material is not sustainable. 45. The jurisprudence regarding jurisdictional defect in assessment under section
153A /153C without reference to incriminating seized material has also been
expounded by honourable Supreme Court in the case of Commissioner of Income
Tax vs. Singhad technical education Society in civil appeal No. 11080 of 2017 and
others. In this regard the honourable Supreme Court in paragraph 18 of the said
order observed that :- 46. We also note that the co-ordinate bench of ITAT in the case of Shri Vijayrattan
Balkrishan Mittal (supra) in similar situation held that, dehorse incriminating Material
assessment u/s.153A is not sustainable in the case of unabated assessment. We
may gainfully refer to the said decision as under: 45. Since, there is no incriminating material found during the course of
 search, we therefore respectfully following the ratio laid down by the Hon‟ble
 Bombay High Court in the above decision, set aside the order of the CIT(A)
 and direct the AO to delete the addition. Resultantly, the appeal of the
 assessee on jurisdictional issue is allowed. 47. As regards the issue of seized material it is clear that in the appeals which have
remained unabated the addition is without reference to any seized material. The
materials referred are only the statement obtained of the assessee under section 40 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

 132 (4). These have been duly retracted. Hence without corroborative material
 addition only based upon the retracted statement is not sustainable. For this
 proposition following case laws are germane: It could be noted that in the above matter also, except for statement u/s
132(4), there was no incriminating material. The statement was retracted
by the assessee. Therefore, the bench held that addition on the basis of
retracted statement, without there being corroborative material would not
be sustainable as held in various decisions. Similar are the facts before
us. Therefore, applying the ratio of aforesaid decisions, since the
additions are not with reference to any incriminating material, the same
would not be sustainable in the eyes of law. The Ld. CIT-DR has referred to the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court
in the case of Smt. Dayawanti v. CIT [2017] 390 ITR 496 to counter
assessee‟s submissions. Upon perusal of the same, we find that this
case law is factually distinguishable since in that case incriminating
material was found by the department along with confessional
statements. M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

The case law of Mumbai Tribunal in Hiralal Maganlal & Co. V/s DCIT
96 ITD 113, as cited by Ld.CIT-DR deals with an assessment framed u/s
158BC which is not the case here. In the case law of Hon‟ble Kerala High Court in CIT V/s O.Abdul Razak
(350 ITR 71), there was clear admission by the assessee which was duly
supported by the documents. The Hon‟ble High Court held that in view of
clear admission of the assessee corroborated by the documents, the
burden on the department ceases to exist. On the retraction being filed
by the assessee, there is a burden cast on the assessee to prove the
detraction or rather disprove the admissions made. It is not a shifting of
the onus but a new burden cast on the assessee to disprove the earlier
admissions having evidentiary value. As noticed earlier, retraction made
by the assessee can only be considered as a self serving afterthought
and no reliance can be placed on the same to disbelieve the clear
admissions made in the statement recorded under Section 132(4).
Therefore, this case law is factually distinguishable since firstly there is
no confessional statement by the assessee and secondly, the confession
is not backed by any incriminating material. Another case law as referred to by Ld. CIT-DR is of Hon‟ble Rajasthan
High Court in Bannalal Jat Constructions P. Ltd. V/s ACIT (106
Taxmann.com 127). However, the same is also distinguishable on fact
since confessional statements were backed up by seizure of cash from
assessee‟s premises. The same is not the case here. Similar is the
position with other case laws cited by Ld. CIT-DR which are not
specifically dealt with keeping in view the ratio of Hon‟ble Jurisdictional
High Court in CIT V/s Continental Warehousing Corporation (Nhava
Sheva) Ltd. 374 ITR 645. M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

On the basis of aforesaid facts, we are inclined to hold that additions
made by Ld. AO were not valid in the eyes of law. 6.13 The last aspect of the matter is that the additions have been
made by Ld. AO invoking the provisions of Section 68. The addition u/s
68, in our considered opinion, was not sustainable in view of the fact that
credit in assessee‟s bank account represents sale proceeds of shares
sold in recognized stock exchange through registered stock broker. The
sale transactions have taken place through recognized stock exchange
and the money was received in settlement through banking channels.
The assessee had delivered the shares from his demat account to the
broker, who, in turn, paid sale consideration to the assessee. In such a
case, there could be no doubt as to fulfillment of primary ingredients of
Sec.68 viz. identity of the payer, their creditworthiness and the
genuineness of the transactions. The source of credit received in the
bank account could not be held to be unexplained unless it was
established that assessee‟s own money was routed in his bank account
in the garb of Capital gains. 6.14 We find that on identical set of facts, similar addition made by
revenue was deleted by coordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of
Dipesh Ramesh Vardhan & ors. V/s DCIT (ITA Nos.7648/Mum/2019 &
ors. dated 11/08/2020; authored by one of us) by observing as under:- The shares were converted into demat form in assessee‟s account during the month
 of March, 2012. The transactions took place through banking channels. The
 investments were duly reflected by the assessee in financial statements of
 respective years. The copies of financial statements of M/s STL for FYs 2009-10 &
 2010-11 which led to investment by the assessee in that entity was also furnished
 during the course of assessment proceedings. Subsequently, M/s STL got merged
 with another entity viz. M/s SAL pursuant to scheme of amalgamation u/s 391 to 394 43 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

of The Companies Act, 1956 . The Scheme was duly approved by Hon‟ble Bombay
High Court vide order dated 22/03/2013, a copy of which is on record.
Consequently, the shares of M/s STL held by the assessee got swapped with the
shares of M/s SAL and new shares were allotted to the assessee during June, 2013
pursuant to the approved scheme of amalgamation. M/s SAL is stated to be listed
public company Group „A‟ shares signifying high trades with high liquidity. The
assessee has sold these shares through its stock broker namely M/s Unique
Stockbro Private Limited in online platform of the recognised stock exchange during
the month of March, 2014. The selling price was in the range of Rs.489/- to Rs.491/-
per share. The transactions took place through online mechanism after complying
with all the formalities and procedure including payment of STT. The delivery of the
shares was through clearing mechanism of the stock exchange and sale
consideration was received through banking channels. The transactions are duly
evidenced by contract notes, demat statements, bank statements and other
documentary evidences. The key person of assessee group, in his statement,
maintained the position that trading transactions were genuine transactions carried
out through stock exchange following all process and legal procedures. The
assessee also filed trading volume data and price range of the scrip for a period of
more than 2 years i.e. from Jan, 2013 to July, 2015. The shares reflected healthy
trading volume and the price range reflected therein was in the range of Rs.360/- to
Rs.600/- per share. The price range was stated to be in the same range for 15
months after the period of sale of shares by the assessee, which has not been
disputed by the revenue. On the basis of all these facts, it could be gathered that the
assessee had duly discharged the onus casted upon him to prove the genuineness
of the stated transactions and the onus had shifted on revenue to rebut the same. 7. As against the assessee‟s position, the primary material to make additions in
the hands of assessee is the statement of Shri Vipul Bhat and the outcome of
search proceedings on his associated entities including M/s SAL. However, there is
nothing on record to establish vital link between the assessee group and Shri Vipul
Bhat or any of his group entities. The assessee, all along, denied having known Shri
Vipul Bhat or any of his group entities. However, nothing has been brought on
record to controvert the same and establish the link between Shri Vipul Bhat and the
assessee. The opportunity to cross-examine Shri Vipul Bhat was never provided to
the assessee which is contrary to the decision of Hon‟ble Supreme Court in M/s
Andaman Timber Industries V/s CCE (CA No.4228 of 2006) wherein it was held
that not allowing the assessee to cross-examine the witnesses by the adjudicating
authority though the statement of those witnesses were made the basis of the
impugned order is a serious flaw which makes the order nullity in as much as it
amounts to violation of principal of natural justice because of which the assessee
was adversely affected. The whole basis of making the addition is third party
statement without there being any tangible material. It is trite law that additions
merely on the basis of suspicious, conjectures or surmises could not be sustained in
the eyes of law as held by Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Omar Salay Mohamed Sait
V/s CIT (1959 37 ITR 151). The suspicion however strong could not partake the
character of legal evidence as held by Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Umacharan Shaw
& Bros. V/s CIT (1959 37 ITR 271). Therefore, we find that onus as caster upon
revenue to corroborate the impugned additions by controverting the documentary
evidences furnished by the assessee and by bringing on record, any cogent material
to sustain those additions, could not be discharged by the revenue. The allegation of
price rigging / manipulation has been levied without establishing the vital link 44 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

between the assessee and various entities of Shri Vipul Bhat. We find that the whole
basis of making additions is third party statement and no opportunity of cross-
examination has been provided to the assessee to confront the said party. As
against this, the assessee‟s position that that the transactions were genuine and
duly supported by various documentary evidences, could not be disturbed by the
revenue. 8. The allegations of Ld.AO that the assessee was part of the group which
indulged in rigging or manipulation of prices of shares in connivance with Shri Vipul
Bhat is not backed by any independent material. Firstly, there is nothing on record
which establishes the fact that the assessee was acquainted with Shri Vipul Bhat or
any of his entities and secondly, the onus casted upon assessee to prove the
genuineness of the transactions was already discharged by the assessee. Shri Vipul
Bhat, in his statement, stated that one Shri Sandeep Maroo acted as intermediary
who introduced Vardhan family to him. However, no further investigations have been
carried out to establish this vital link between the assessee and Shri Vipul Bhat. We
do not find any independent investigations by Ld. AO to bring on record any tangible
material to corroborate the same. There are no evident or even allegation of any
cash exchange between the assessee and group entities of Shri Vipul Bhat. This is
further evidenced by the fact that no substantial incriminating material / wealth of
that magnitude has been found during the course of search operations on assessee
which would corroborate such presumption and prove that the transactions were
sham transactions, in any manner. 9. The fact that the assessee could not produce the concerned person of M/s
SAL was rightly controverted by submitting that the aforesaid entity was not under
the control of the assessee and the assessee was under no obligation to do so. The
existence of M/s SAL is beyond doubt since it was a listed corporate entity and
secondly, it was subject matter of scheme of amalgamation u/s 391 to 394. The
scheme of amalgamation was duly been approved by Hon‟ble Bombay High Court.
Therefore, the existence of the said entity could not be doubted, in any manner. 10. The above conclusion is further fortified by the fact that in share sale
transactions through online mode, the identity of the buyer of the shares would not
be known to the assessee. Therefore, the adverse conclusion drawn by Ld. AO
merely on the basis of the fact that the buyer of the shares were group entities of
Shri Vipul Bhat, could not be sustained. The fact that there were independent buyers
also would rebut the same and weaken the conclusion drawn by Ld. AO. 11. The Ld. AR has relied on plethora of judicial pronouncements in support of
various submissions, which we have duly considered. These decisions would only
support the conclusions drawn by us that once the assessee has discharged the
onus of proving the genuineness of the transactions, the onus would shift on the
revenue to dislodge assessee‟s claim and bring on record contrary evidences to
rebut the same. Until and unless this exercise is carried out, the additions could not
be sustained in the eyes of law. 12. To enumerate the few, the Hon‟ble Bombay High Court in CIT V/s Shyam
S.Pawar (54 Taxmann.com 108 10/12/2014) declined to admit revenue‟s appeal
since the revenue failed to carry forward the inquiry to discharge this basic onus.
The co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in Mukesh R.Marolia V/s Addl. CIT (6 SOT
247 15/12/2005) held that personal knowledge and excitement on events should not
lead the Assessing Officer to a state of affairs where salient evidences are over-
looked. When every transaction has been accounted, documented and supported, it
would be very difficult to brush aside the contentions of the assessee that he had 45 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

 purchased shares and had sold shares and ultimately purchased a flat utilizing the
 sale proceeds of those shares and therefore, the co-ordinate bench chose to delete
 the impugned additions. We find that this decision was firstly been approved by
 Hon‟ble Bombay High Court vide ITA No. 456 of 2007 on 07/09/2011 and thereafter,
 special leave petition against the said decision has been dismissed by Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court vide SLP No. 20146 of 2012 dated 27/01/2014 which is reported as
 88 CCH 0027 SCC. The SMC Bench of Tribunal in Anraj Hiralal Shah (HUF) V/s ITO (ITA No.
 4514/Mum/2018 dated 16/07/2019) held that in the absence of any evidence to
 implicate the assessee or to prove that the transactions were bogus, the Long-Term
 Capital Gains declared by the assessee could not be doubted with. This case was
 dealing with gains earned by the assessee on sale of same scrip i.e. M/s Sunrise
 Asian Ltd. 13. Therefore, considering the entirety of facts and circumstances, we are not
 inclined to accept the stand of Ld.CIT(A) in sustaining the impugned additions in the
 hands of the assessee. Resultantly, the addition on account of alleged Long-Term
 Capital Gains as well as estimated commission against the same, stands deleted.
 The grounds of appeal, to that extent, stand allowed. Similar is the decision of Hon‟ble Rajasthan High court in the case of CIT
V/s Pooja Agarwal (ITA No. 385/2011 dated 11/09/2017) and the
decision of Hon‟ble Delhi High Court in Pr.CIT V/s Smt. Krishna Devi &
ors. (ITA Nos. 125/2020 & ors. dated 15/01/2021). We find that the
ratio of aforesaid decisions is equally applicable to the fact of the present
case before us. Conclusion
6.15 Finally, keeping in the facts and circumstances of the case,
we are inclined to hold that impugned additions are not sustainable in the
eyes of law. The assessee had discharged the primary onus of
establishing the genuineness of the transactions whereas the onus as
casted upon revenue to corroborate the impugned additions by
controverting the documentary evidences furnished by the assessee and
by bringing on record, any cogent material to sustain those additions,
could not be discharged by the revenue. The whole basis of making
additions is third-party statement and no opportunity of cross- M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

examination has been provided to the assessee to confront these
parties. As against this, the assessee‟s position that that the transactions
were genuine and duly supported by various documentary evidences,
could not be disturbed by the revenue. Hence, going by the factual
matrix and respectfully following the binding judicial precedents as
enumerated in the order, the additions made by Ld. AO and confirmed
by Ld. CIT(A), are not sustainable in the eyes of law. Therefore, we are
inclined to delete the same. We order so. Consequentially, the addition
of estimated commission also stands deleted. Ground Nos. 1, 3 & 4
stands allowed. No argument has been urged with respect to Ground
No.2 which is related with fulfillment of requirement of provisions of
Sec.153D and therefore, this ground stand dismissed. The appeal stand
partly allowed. ITA Nos. 5513 & 5514/Mum/2019, AYs 2011-12 & 2012-13
7.1 The facts in both these years are pari-materia the same. The
assessment for both the year has similarly been framed u/s 143(3) r.w.s.
153A on 29/12/2017. The Long-term gains earned by the assessee on
sale of scrip of SMIL have been treated as undisclosed income and
added u/s 68. The Ld. AO has estimated commission of 6% in similar
manner. The impugned order has confirmed the order of Ld. AO on
similar logic and reasoning. Aggrieved, the assessee is in further appeal
before us with identical grounds of appeal. 7.2 Facts being pari-materia the same including the fact that
assessment for both the year is unabated assessment, our findings as
well as adjudication as for AY 2010-11 shall mutatis-mutandis apply to
both these year. Resultantly, the appeals for both the year stands partly
allowed. M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15 8. ITA Nos. 5515 & 5516/Mum/2019, AYs 2013-14 & 2014-15
8.1 The facts in both these year are pari-materia the same as in
AY 2010-11 except for the fact that the assessee has sold scrip of FFSL
during these two year. Another differentiating fact in AY 2014-15 is that
this year is the case of abated assessment since search took place on
the assessee on 09/04/2015 and the limitation for issue of notice u/s
143(2) was 30/09/2015. The assessment for both the year has similarly been framed u/s 143(3)
r.w.s. 153A on 29/12/2017. The Long-term gains earned by the
assessee have been treated as undisclosed income and added u/s 68.
The Ld. AO has estimated commission of 6% in similar manner. The
impugned order has confirmed the order of Ld. AO on similar logic and
reasoning. Aggrieved, the assessee is in further appeal before us with
identical grounds of appeal. 8.2 An additional point that arises for consideration in both these
year is the fact that impugned order refers to the order of SEBI dated
02/04/2018 wherein SEBI has found FFSL, assessee, its Karta-Shri Anil
Agarwal and certain entities of the assessee group including M/s CSL to
be guilty of rigging the share prices and restrained / prohibited them from
accessing the market or trading for a further period of 3 years. However,
as brought on record by Ld. AR, the aforesaid order of SEBI was under M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15 6. Without going into the merits as to whether the appellants were involved in
 the abnormal and huge rise in the price of the scrips by treating all entities
 connected to the company pursuant to the issuance of preferential allotment of
 shares, we are of the opinion that the appeals can be disposed of without going into
 the merits. 7. We find that the order of debarment as per the impugned order is of three
 years. These three years have already been undergone by the appellant pursuant to
 the impugned ex parte order dated December 19, 2014 restraining them from
 accessing the securities market, etc. As on date four years and ten months have
 elapsed and the appellants are still debarred from accessing the security markets
 etc. We find that the WTM has not considered the period of debarment already
 spent from the date of the ex parte interim order till the date of passing of the order
 while considering the quantum of penalty. We are, thus, of the opinion that the
 debarment period spent by the appellants from the date of the ex parte impugned
 order till today is sufficient. Thus, without going into the merits of the case and without considering the
 submissions of the counsels for the parties on merits, we dispose of all the appeals
 holding that the restraint order restraining the appellants from buying, selling or
 otherwise dealing in securities, directly or indirectly, or being associated with the
 securities market in any manner, whatsoever will come to an end from today. 9. It was stated by the learned counsel that, for the same offence, adjudication
 proceedings have been initiated by the Adjudicating Officer of SEBI and submitted
 that the findings given in the impugned order of the WTM would be relied upon by
 the AO. It was urged that the findings given in the impugned order should not come
 in the way while considering the matter on merits by the Adjudicating Officer of
 SEBI. 10. We make it clear that the Adjudicating Officer of SEBI will consider the matter
 on merits without being influenced by the findings given by the WTM of SEBI. Upon perusal of the Hon‟ble SAT order, it could be observed that the
restraint order passed by WTM of SEBI has not been decided on merits
rather the appeals have been allowed summarily in view of the fact that
the debarment period of 3 years, as counted from ex-parte restraint
order dated 19/12/2014, was already over. Therefore, the restraint order
was revoked by Hon‟ble SAT. It was also held that the findings given in
impugned order would not come in the way of adjudicating officer of
SEBI while deciding on merits. Therefore, it could be seen that the order,
as referred to by Ld. CIT(A), has not been tested by higher authority on
merits. Further, the adjudication proceedings as initiated by adjudicating
officer on merits have also not attained finality. Therefore, this order as 49 M/s Anil Agrawal (HUF)
 ITA Nos. 5512-5516/Mum/2019
 Assessment Years: 2010-11 to 2014-15

relied upon by learned first appellate authority would not materially alter
our view as taken in AY 2010-11. 8.3 Another distinguishing feature in AY 2014-15, as noted
earlier, is the fact that this year is the case of abated assessment and
therefore, our adjudication as in AY 2010-11, to that extent, would not
apply to this year. In other words, our observations / adjudication as to
requirement of incriminating materials as enumerated in preceding para
6.12, would not apply to AY 2014-15. Accordingly, ground No. 1 stand
dismissed. 8.4 Subject to above, our adjudication for AY 2010-11 shall
mutatis-mutandis, apply to both these years also. Accordingly, both the
appeals stand partly allowed. Conclusion 9. All the appeals stands partly allowed. Order pronounced on 05th April, 2021. न्याययक सदस्य / Judicial Member लेखा सदस्य / Accountant Member
मुंबई Mumbai; यदनां क Dated : 05/04/2021
Sr.PS, Jaisy Varghese
आदे शकीप्रधिधलधपअग्रेधर्ि/Copy of the Order forwarded to :