(Order of the Court was made by S.MANIKUMAR, J.)

 The instant Public Interest Litigation has been filed for a Writ of

 Mandamus, forbearing the respondents herein, their agents or servants from

 constructing Solid Waste Management Building in the reserved Public Park

 site situated in S.F.No.363/1 Part, 364/Part, Chinnaiah Gardents,

 P.Vadugapalayam, Palladam Taluk, Tiruppur District or for converting it for

 any other purpose. 2. It is the case of the petitioners that an extent of 12.09 Acres in

 Chinnaiah Garden Lay out in S.Nos.363/1 part, 364 part of Vadugapalayam

 Village, Palladam Taluk, Trippur District in Palladam Municipality, was

 developed as Housing Plots, by M.Chinnaiah Gounder, through his Power

 Agent, Mr.R.A.Rahman and the said Lay-out was approved by the Deputy

 Director, Town and Country Planning in his proceedings in

 Na.Ka.No.24260/94 dated 27.07.1994 and DTP Approval No. is 1123/94. 3. According to the petitioners, Chinnaiah Gardens Lay-out, consists

 of 135 Housing Plots, Shops, Road and an area of 39806 sq.feet or 91 cent

 and another 13194 sq.feet or 30.125 cent, reserved as parks were handed

 over to the Commissioner, Palladam Municipality, Tiruppur District, the 3rd
http://www.judis.nic.in 3 respondent herein by a registered Gift Deed dated 03.08.1194 in Document

 No.2876. The Commissioner, Palladam Municipality, Tiruppur District, the

 3rd respondent herein, after taking possession of two parks sites, did not

 develop the same, as Public Park and left it as Vacant. The respondents did

 not provide, basic facilities, such as, laying of roads, street light, sewerage

 connection, water connection, even though the residents of Chinnaiah

 Gardens have paid the development charges. 4. Petitioners have further contended that the residents of Chinnaiah

 Garden have made several representations to the Commissioner, Palladam

 Municipality, Tiruppur District, the 3rd respondent herein, for development

 of public park, and for providing the basic facilities, but on other hand, in

 the year 2009, the Commissioner, Palladam Municipality, Tiruppur District,

 the 3rd respondent herein, indulged in an illegal act, dumping heavy

 wastages, in the Public Park site, and burning them, which resulted in

 causing lot of health hazards to the residents of Chinnaiah Gardens and due

 to the objections raised by the public, the Zonal Director, Municipal

 Administration, Tiruppur, the 2nd respondent herein stopped dumping of

 the Garbages and heavy wastages, in the Public Park site. 5. Petitioners have further contended that on 13.09.2017, to their

 great shock and surprise, the Commissioner, Palladam Municipality,
http://www.judis.nic.in 4 Tiruppur District, the 3rd respondent herein and their representatives

 started, foundation work for the Solid Waste Management building, in the

 reserved park site. Immediately, the public started to agitate the illegal

 action of the 3rd respondent and sent their objections, through a

 representation dated 23.09.2017 to the respondents asking them to stop the

 illegal activities and further requested them to provide a park in the site

 reserved, as public park. Respondents herein after receiving their

 representations dated 23.09.2017 are continuing their construction in the

 reserved park site. 6. According to the petitioners, there are more than 130 residents in

 Chinnaiah Gardens area by constructing houses by obtaining proper approval

 from the 3rd respondent. Petitioners have submitted that the open space

 in the residential area, is treated as a lung space of the area and it provides

 fresh air and refreshment to the public in the neighbourhood and it is for

 the health and well being of the inhabitants of the residential area and the

 same cannot be used for any other purpose. 7. Petitioners have further submitted that when a open space for

 construction of public park is earmarked in the plan for development of a

 housing site, the respondents cannot ignore or neglect to develop that open

 space into a public park within reasonable time, but the respondents herein
http://www.judis.nic.in 5 without developing the open space into a public park, they are illegally

 converting for the purpose carrying out the Solid Waste Scheme. 8. According to the petitioners action of the respondents herein is

 illegal and in violation of Articles 14 , 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. Inspite of petitioners' objections, the respondents are carrying out their

 preliminary works for establishing a Solid Waste Management Building in the

 Park site situated in Chinnaiah Gardens, P.Vadugapalayam, Palladam Taluk. Therefore, the petitioners have filed the instant writ petition for the relief

 stated supra. Supporting the prayer sought for learned counsel for the

 petitioner relied on a judgment of this Court in SIDCO Nagar Welfare

 Association Vs. Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority and

 others , reported in 2018 (5) CTC 857. 9. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and perused the

 materials available on record. 10. Issue as to whether a Solid Waste Management building can be

 constructed in a place earmarked for park has been considered by us in

 W.P.No.7038 of 2018 dated 15.11.2018. Order reads thus. 5. The issue regarding disposal of solid waste is being continuously monitored by

 National Green Tribunal. In fact, as late as 31.08.2018, the National Green Tribunal,

http://www.judis.nic.in Principal Bench, New Delhi has given directions regarding disposal of solid waste. The relevant paragraphs of the order dated 31.08.2018 made in OA No.606 of 2018

 in the matter of "compliance of Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016",

 reads as hereunder. 8. Meetings were held with all the States and Union Territories on
 02.08.2018, 07.08.2018, 08.08.2018, 13.08.2018 and 20.08.2018 on the
 aforesaid matter. At the conclusion of the interaction with the States and
 Union Territories, it was decided and declared that certain binding directions
 need to be issued by the Tribunal by forming Apex Level, Regional Level and
 State Level Committees to oversee the steps taken for implementation of the
 Rules, 2016 and the directions issued by the Tribunal and give a report to this
 Tribunal at the end of the quarter. The Committees may have interaction
 individually with the Statutory Authorities and the Urban Local Bodies.
 Accordingly, we are recording this order. The Registry may register these
 proceedings as a fresh Original Application. 17. We accordingly, propose to direct constitution of an Apex
 Monitoring Committee, Regional Monitoring Committees and State Level
 Committees to oversee the steps to be taken to give effect to the directions of
 this Tribunal so that if necessary, further action can be taken in the matter. 18. The role of the Apex Monitoring Committee will be to interact with
 the concerned Ministries and the Regional Monitoring Committees. The Apex
 Monitoring Committee may formulate guidelines/directions which may be
 useful to the Regional Monitoring Committees and the States/Union
 Territories. The Apex Monitoring Committee may meet preferably every month
 to take stock of the situation. Outstation members/invitees may participate by
 video conferencing unless their presence is considered necessary. The Apex
http://www.judis.nic.in Monitoring Committee may have meeting with all the Regional Monitoring 7 Committees at least once in a month for two days to take stock of the
 progress and fix new targets. The report may be given to the Tribunal by e-
 mail once in a quarter. The Apex Monitoring Committee may have its website
 for dissemination of such information as may be necessary and also to enable
 public participation. The Committee may function for a period of one year
 subject to any further order. The constitution of the Apex Monitoring Committee will be as follows: 19. The Regional Monitoring Committees shall ensure effective
 implementation of the Rules, 2016. The Regional Monitoring Committees
 shall also ensure that mixing of bio-medical waste with municipal solid

http://www.judis.nic.in
 waste does not take place and bio- medical waste and processed in 8 accordance with The Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules, 2016. The
 Regional Monitoring Committees may meet preferably once in every week
 or longer intervals as per requirements. Out station members may
 participate by video conferencing unless physical presence is required.
 They may interact with Apex Monitoring Committee at suitable intervals.
 The Regional Monitoring Committees may also have inter se interaction as
 and when necessary. The Regional Monitoring Committees may have
 interactions with the concerned States at regular intervals. The Regional
 Monitoring Committees may also consider having their website for the
 same purpose with the same objective as the Apex Monitoring Committee.
 The Regional Monitoring Committees if feel appropriate can solicit the
 service of the Special Invitees of the Apex Monitoring Committee and
 others whom they think can contribute to the cause of monitoring of the
 Rules, 2016. The Regional Monitoring Committees may specially consider
 compliance of the mandate of the Rules, 2016 at or around railway
 platform, railway tracks, bus stands or other places frequented by public.
 The Ministry of Railway may appoint Nodal Officers at Central, Zonal or
 other levels having specific responsibility of compliance of the Rules, 2016.
 The Regional Monitoring Committees may interact with such officers at
 appropriate intervals. The report may be given to the Apex Monitoring
 Committee twice in a quarter. Initially, a report may also be sent to the
 Tribunal by the Regional Monitoring Committees after three months of their
 working. The Regional Monitoring Committees will be paid remuneration
 and such logistic support as required by Department of Urban
 Development, Government of Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra,
 Tamil Nadu and West Bengal for Northern Zone, Central Zone, Western
 Zone, South Zone and Eastern Zone respectively. The States will be
 entitled to recover proportionate expenses from the member States and
 Union Territories in the respective zones All the States are advised to
 maintain the parity with regard to the remuneration of Chairperson of the
 Regional Monitoring Committees. The Committees may function
 for a period of one year subject to any further order. 20. The constitution of the Regional Monitoring Committees will be
 as follows: When once the land has been developed into housing
 plots, it is the duty of the Commissioner of the
 Municipality to maintain the street, road, or park and
 such other public amenities without any encroachment.
http://www.judis.nic.in
 What has been stated is that private parties are not 12 supposed to encroach on the land. It is true that
 whenever an Open Space Reserve (OSR) place is
 identified as a park, no construction can be made in it,
 but however, it cannot be stated that a portion of the
 area cannot be used as a compost yard. When the
 citizens want the Government to remove the garbage,
 there should be a place for dumping the garbage and
 clearing it. 13. The compost yard in a small portion of the
 park, cannot be said to be an encroachment, as the
 Municipality has not encroached upon any private
 property. It is pointed out by the learned counsel for
 the petitioners that there is no alternative site
 identified for compost yard. It is made clear that
 whenever a site is identified, the people will raise
 objections and in that process, good efforts to clear
 the garbage is being stalled as contended by the first
 respondent-Municipality. The contention that the
 respondents can take the garbage to some other
 place, cannot be accepted, as the Municipality's
 efforts to dump the garbage in another place, may be
 objected to by the residents in that area. As pointed
 out by the respondents, if the petitioners want to
 maintain healthy atmosphere, and if they should not
 face any health hazard, then they must come forward
 to use the compost yard for removing the garbage and
 other waste. The contention that the compost yard
 should be removed and taken to some other place,
 cannot be accepted in the facts and circumstances of
 the case. However, at the best, the petitioners can do
 so without preventing the compost yard being
 constructed in a portion of the park and they should
 ensure that the area is litter-free zone and regular
 fogging operations and other measures are being
 taken care of by the Municipality. If there is no
 activity for a day on account of any other reason,
 there is possibility of infectious and contagious
 diseases being spread. 14. Though the relief sought for by the
 petitioners cannot be granted, when the compost yard
 comes, the respondents shall ensure that it is cleaned
 twice a day and fogging the zone is also done, more
 particularly during sunset to avoid mosquito breed.
http://www.judis.nic.in That apart, the residents in the area shall also 13 cooperate in keeping with the wastage in different
 forms, namely degradable and bio-degradable forms of
 segregation of waste. Though this Court would suggest
 that the Corporation/Municipality concerned shall
 provide degradable wastage disposal bags to each and
 every house, as there is possibility of scam in that
 process, this Court is avoiding such observation. The
 respondents must also be aware that the provisions of
 the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act are not only
 applicable to the residents, but also applicable to the
 Municipal authorities. If any defects are pointed out
 by means of videograph or photograph by the residents
 with regard to the improper maintenance of the
 compost yard, the officers will be liable to pay costs
 and face prosecution as per law. 10. Similarly, the Division Bench of this Court by its order dated 14.03.2018
 in W.P.No.32938 of 2017 in the case of T.G.Ruthramani, Secretary, Poonamallee
 Nanbargal Nagar, Veettu Manai Urimaiyalargal Nalasangam, Poonamallee,
 Thiruvallur District, Chennai, Vs. The Member Secretary, Chennai Metropolitan
 Development Authority, Thalamuthu Natarajan Maligal, Egmore, Chennai, has
 observed as under:- http://www.judis.nic.in 17. Private lawns or public parks are not a 15 luxury, as they were considered in the past. Public
 Park is a gift of modern civilization and that
 reservation of vacant land as an open land is in
 conformity with the rules and regulations for
 formation of the layout and is meant for public use
 and enjoyment and it cannot be disputed that Open
 Space Reserve is treated as lung space. 18. The Apex Court has categorically held
 that where open space is preserved and earmarked
 in the plan for development of a planned town, the
 authorities cannot ignore the public interest and
 allot the same for construction of godowns, thereby
 causing environmental hazards. Ecology has been
 completely destroyed by human beings by
 encroaching OSR, playgrounds, river bunds, lakes,
 etc. But the official respondents must ensure that
 the waste has to be disposed of in a scientific
 manner. In a developing country, technicalities
 should not be a bar for development. 19. When a public park is a gift of modern
 civilization, Open Space Reserve is the lung space
 and setbacks are for the purpose of rain harvest,
 Micro Compost Yards are essential for disposal of
 the waste, so that it will not endanger the health of
 the citizens, more particularly, children, who are
 likely to be affected on account of mosquitoes,
 flies, etc, which cause air borne and water-borne
 diseases. When citizens want development,
 certainly, they will have to co-operate for the
 betterment of the environment and ensure that no
 pollution is caused on account of their attitude in
 disposing of the waste from their respective
 residence. Though, strictly speaking, Development
 Rules have come into effect in 1975 and that the
 layout in question was approved in 1972, there is no
 hard and fast rule that there cannot be any
 development at all. 20. Residents/citizens cannot expect the
 authorities to identify a different place far away
 from the place of residence to have a Compost Yard
 and that there is a possibility of the residents of
 that area to object for setting up of a Compost Yard
 for disposal of the waste which are not generated
http://www.judis.nic.in from their residence. 21. Now that the Government has come up
 with effective policies in segregation of wastes of
 all kinds, people are expected to welcome such
 measures and must co-operate with the authorities
 in maintaining a healthy environment. Even though
 garbage bins are set up in every street, it is painful
 to see people throw garbage near the bin and not
 into the bin. From stone-age, we have come to the
 modern era. Certainly development is required for
 our betterment and hence, technicalities should not
 come in the way that may be detrimental to the
 development of the Society. 22. In view of the above and taking into
 account the submissions of the 1st
 respondent/Municipality that the Micro Compost
 Yard, that is to be set up in the Playground in
 question, will be neatly maintained without any
 pollution and that only a meagre portion of the
 Playground is required for setting up of Micro
 Compost Yard, this Court finds no reason to
 interfere with the impugned tender notice
 published by the 1st respondent/Municipality. 23. It is made clear that if the Micro
 Compost Yard that is to be set up in the Playground
 in question is not maintained properly, the officials,
 who are in-charge of that place during the relevant
 period shall be dismissed from service, on the
 ground that the Officer has failed to maintain
 absolute integrity, devotion to duty and that he has
 done the work of unbecoming of a member of his
 service. 11. As noticed in the above said judgments, it is the duty of the Municipal
 authorities to ensure that there is no nuisance created to the residents. The
 authorities shall ensure that the Municipal Solid Waste Management
 Plant/Transfer Station is to be cleaned twice a day and is to be done very
 regularly to avoid mosquitoes breeding in the portion of park. It is the duty of the
 authorities to ensure the park to maintain properly. The Municipality is directed to
 ensure that the remaining area of the park is developed into a well maintained
 park. It is also directed that footpath and green belts and play equipments should
http://www.judis.nic.in be installed in the park. If the park is not maintained, it will be taken as contempt 17 of the orders of this Court. 12. Instant writ petition is on similar facts. Decisions stated supra,

 squarely apply to the facts on hand. Following the decisions stated supra,

 WP No.34048 of 2017 is dismissed. No Costs. Consequently, the connected

 miscellaneous petition is closed.