% 10.03.2025 1. The instant petition has been preferred under Section 11(5) & (6) of
 the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter, referred to as the
 „A&C Act‟), seeking constitution of Arbitral Tribunal comprising of a Sole
 Arbitrator to adjudicate the disputes between the parties. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner and
 respondent entered into a Loan Agreement dated 18.02.2022, Clause 10 of
 which stipulates resolution of disputes through arbitration as governed under
 the A&C Act and further provides for place of the arbitration to be at Delhi. 3. The present dispute arises in the context of a Loan Agreement entered
 into between the parties, wherein the respondent availed a short-term loan of
 I.N.R.20,00,00,000/- from the petitioner, a Non-Banking Financial
 Corporation, for business development, out of which Rs. 14,72,50,000/- was ARB.P. 222/2024 Page 1 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/04/2025 at 22:25:26
 disbursed. Disputes arose between the parties when the respondent allegedly
 breached various terms of the Agreement, including pledging insufficient
 shares as collateral and defaulting on interest payments. 4. Disputes having arisen between the parties, the petitioner invoked
 arbitration vide notice dated 16.12.2023 issued to the respondent under Section 21 of the A&C Act. 5. Learned counsel for the respondent neither disputes the subject
 agreement nor the jurisdiction of this Court. However, he objects to the
 reference of the present dispute to arbitration by contending that the
 petitioner has played fraud upon the respondent inasmuch as the petitioner
 sold the pledged shares to the third party, even before the loan was
 disbursed, without even serving a notice to the respondent company, which
 is in violation of the contract executed between the petitioner and the
 respondent. It is submitted that by selling the pledged share by the petitioner
 company, the petitioner has committed fraud upon the respondent. He
 further submits that the respondent has, on 29.08.2023, lodged a complaint
 with the Jt. Commissioner of Police, Economic offence Wing against the
 petitioner for the fraudulent act of petitioner causing wrongful loss to the
 respondent. He, therefore, claims that the disputes being fraudulent in nature
 are non-arbitrable. In support of his contention, he relies particularly on
 paragraph 94 of the Supreme Court's decision in Cox & Kings Ltd. v. SAP
 India (P) Ltd. & Anr. , reported as (2024) 4 SCC 1. 6. At the outset, in terms of Section 11 (6-A) of the A&C Act, the scope
 of examination is limited to the existence of the arbitration agreement. It is
 well-established law that courts are mandated to refer disputes to arbitration
 if the agreement between the parties provides for such reference. To shut out ARB.P. 222/2024 Page 2 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/04/2025 at 22:25:26
 the arbitration at the initial stage itself would destroy the very purpose for
 which the parties had entered into arbitration. Furthermore, in Vidya Drolia & Ors. v. Durga Trading Corporation ,
 reported as (2021) 2 SCC 1, the Supreme Court clarified that courts, at the
 referral stage, do not merely perform a ministerial function. Instead, they are
 required to refer parties to arbitration "unless it finds that prima facie no
 valid arbitration agreement exists." 7. The contention that the disputes between the petitioner and the
 respondent are non-arbitrable as the respondent has made the allegation of
 fraud is unsustainable. In N.N. Global Mercantile Pvt. Ltd. v. Indo Unique
 Flame Ltd. reported as 2021 SCC OnLine SC 13, the Supreme Court had
 observed as under: ... This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/04/2025 at 22:25:26 50. The ground on which fraud was held to be non arbitrable
 earlier was that it would entail voluminous and extensive
 evidence and would be too complicated to be decided in
 arbitration. In contemporary arbitration practice, arbitral
 tribunals are required to traverse through volumes of material
 in various kinds of disputes such as oil, natural gas,
 construction industry, etc. The ground that allegations of fraud
 are not arbitrable is a wholly archaic view, which has become
 obsolete, and deserves to be discarded. However, the criminal
 aspect of fraud, forgery, or fabrication, which would be visited
 with penal consequences and criminal sanctions can be
 adjudicated only by a court of law, since it may result in a
 conviction, which is in the realm of public law. 8. Moreover, the respondent‟s reliance on the decision rendered by the
 Supreme Court in Cox and Kings Private Limited v. SAP India Private
 Limited & Anr. reported as (2024) 4 SCC 1, is misplaced. It has been held
 that while exercising jurisdiction under Section 11 of the A&C Act, this
 court is required to enquire about the existence of the arbitration agreement,
 which is a sine qua non for referring the parties for arbitration. The
 allegations of fraud are generally arbitrable, unless they are so serious as to
 invalidate the arbitration agreement itself or have implications in the public
 domain. 9. The respondent‟s contention that before disbursing the loan, the
 petitioner sold the pledged shares, without commenting on the merits but
 merely on a prima facie view, appears to be at worst a breach of contractual
 understanding. There is no dispute as to the existence of an arbitration
 agreement and the petitioner admittedly having invoked the arbitration
 clause, this Court finds no reason as to why the Arbitral Tribunal cannot
 adjudicate the dispute including the allegation of fraud against the petitioner. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/04/2025 at 22:25:27
 Considering the above noted facts and legal position, this court deems it
 apposite to refer the matter to the Arbitral Tribunal comprising of a Sole
 Arbitrator. Accordingly, the present petitioner is disposed of with the
 following directions: MANOJ KUMAR OHRI, J
 MARCH 10, 2025/na ARB.P. 222/2024 Page 5 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 04/04/2025 at 22:25:27