This bail application has been taken up during lock-down period as an urgent one. Perused the records as well as the written objection filed by the learned Additional Government Advocate. The applicant is seeking bail in connection with Case Crime No.- 05 of 2020, under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120B I.P.C. and Section 6 / 10 of U.P. Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 1998, Police Station- Line Bazar, District- Jaunpur. The allegation against the applicant in the first information report is that one Rakesh Kumar was appearing in the examination hall in place of Pram Chandra with registration number alloted to Prem Chandra and thus, he committed fraud. During investigation by the police in connection with the said case crime number, the name of the applicant along with Bhim Shankar has also figured. It has been pleaded in the affidavit filed in support of the bail application that said co-accused Bhim Shankar has already been granted bail by this Court vide order dated 6th February, 2020 in connection with same case crime number vide Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 5843 of 2020. In view of overall facts and circumstance of the case, the Court is of the opinion that the applicant is entitled to be admitted to bail. Accordingly, applicant namely Rupesh Kumar is admitted to bail and considering the special circumstances of the lock-down prevailing in the district concerned presently and in the light of the directions of this Court in P.I.L. No. 564 of 2020 dated 06.04.2020, let the applicant, Rupesh Kumar be enlarged on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on his furnishing a personal bond only to the satisfaction of the jail authorities, where the applicant is languishing. It is further provided that this bail order available on the official website of the High Court will be taken to be the authentic one. However, it is further directed that within a period of four weeks from the date of lifting of the complete lock-down in the District concerned resulting in resumption of normal functioning of the Courts in that district, the applicant shall furnish two sureties each of the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned alongwith certified copy of this order, failing which the bail granted by this court shall stand cancelled necessitating surrender of the applicant. It is further directed that the applicant shall not misuse the liberty of bail and shall cooperate in the trial. Office of the Government Advocate is directed to forthwith inform about this order to the S.P./ S.S.P. of the district concerned for necessary information to the jail authority where the applicant is languishing. The bail application thus finally stands disposed of. Order Date :- 17.4.2020
 
Atmesh