These appeals by assessee and revenue are directed against the order of
Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai [for short 'AO'] passed under
section 143(3) r.w.s. 144 C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 [for short 'the Act'] vide
order dated 30.04.2014 for Assessment Year (AY) 2006-07. For A.Y. 2009-10
assessee and revenue both are in appeal vide ITA No. 702/Mum/2014 & ITA No.
1661/Mum/2014 respectively. The assessee has raised the following grounds of
appeal for A.Y. 2006-07 as under: the most appropriate method and instead adopting the Comparable Uncontrolled
Price (CUP) Method. 1.4 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned TPO
AO erred in considering as comparables and the Hon'ble DRP erred in upholding
Top 10 Foreign Institutional Investors for the purpose of arriving at the arm's
length price under the CUP Method adopted by the AO and TPO. 1.5 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned TPO
AQ erred and the Hon'ble DRP erred in upholding the order of AO/TPO in not
allowing volume adjustments as warranted under Rule 10B(1)(a) of the Income Tax
Rules, 1962 ("the Rules'). 1.6 Without prejudice to any of the above grounds, the learned DRP/AO failed to
appreciate and rectify the inadvertent mistake made by the Appellant before the
TPO in submitting the Top 10 Foreign Institutional Investors by erroneously
including data pertaining to AE. II. Addition to total income on account of Provision of Back Office Support
Services

2.1 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned TPO
AO erred and the Hon'ble DRP erred in providing only partial relief in relation to the
Transfer Pricing additions of Rs. 12, 89,837 to the income of the appellant by
erroneously enhancing the receipts on account of provision of Back Office Support
Services to its Associated Enterprise: 2.3 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the learned TPO and the
learned AO have erred in making and the learned DRP has erred in confirming the
approach adopted by the learned AO TPO, who have disregarded the
benchmarking analysis conducted, search filters applied and the comparable
companies selected by the Appellant without appreciating the fact that such
selection was based on the contemporaneous data and the transfer pricing study
report prepared and maintained as per section 92D of the Act read with Rule 10D
of the Income-tax Rules, 1962 ('the Rules"). 2.4 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO/AO erred in making and the Hon'ble DRP erred in upholding the order of
AO/TPO, of resorting to cherry-picking of comparables based on conjectures and
surmises with complete disregard to the differences in functions performed, assets 4 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. employed and risks undertaken by the Appellant. Thus, the Appellant prays that
the benchmarking analysis conducted by the learned TPO be quashed. 2.5 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO/AO erred in making and the Hon'ble DRP erred in upholding the order of the
AO/TPO despite the fact that the TPO had not provided any basis for arriving at the
margins of the comparable companies selected by him to arrive at the arm's length
price of the international transaction undertaken by the Appellant, thereby
amounting to denial of principles of natural justice

2.6 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO/AO/ DRP erred in rejecting the use of multiple year data as permitted under
the provisions of Rule 10B(4) of the Rules. 2.7 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO/AO erred and the Hon'ble DRP erred in upholding the order of AO/TPO by
determining the arm's length price based on data which was not available as on
the specified date (as defined in Section 92F (iv) of the Act read with Rule 10B (4) of
the Rules]. 2.8 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO/AO erred and the Hon'ble DRP erred in not allowing risk adjustments as
warranted under Rule 10B(1Xe)(ii) of the Rules. 2.9 on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO/AO/ DRP erred in rejecting the following comparable companies selected by
the Appellant in its transfer pricing study: • Companies for which there was insufficient financial data were excluded

• Companies whose manufacturing sales were equal to or greater than 25 percent
of total sales in the latest year in which financial das was available were rejected

• Companies whose trading sales were equal to or greater than 25 percent of total
sales in the latest year in which financial data was available were rejected

2.12 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned TPO/
DRP wrongfully applying the following filters: 3. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. Dispute
Resolution Panel(DRP) and the Ld. AO (following the directions of the DRP) erred in
disallowing Rs. 2,59,839/- made by the Ld. AO under section 40(a)(ia) of the Act,
being VSAT and lease line charges paid by the Appellant to the National Stock
Exchange (NSE), Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and MTNL on the alleged ground 6 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. that these charges qualify as "Fees for technical services (FTS) u/s 9(1) (vii) of the
 Act. 3.2 The Ld. AO further erred in observing that the said VSAT and lease line charges
 are covered by section 194J / 194C of the Act. 3.3 The Appellant prays that the Ld. AO he directed to delete the said disallowance
 of Rs 2,58,839 made under section 40 (a) (ia) of the Act as the VSAT and leased line
 charges do not qualify to be FTS

 3.4 The Appellant further prays that it be held that the said VSAT and lease line
 charges do not fall within the purview of section 194J / 194C of the Act and, hence,
 ought not to be disallowed us 40(a)(ia) for purported non-deduction of tax at
 source u/s 194J / 194C of the Act. IV. Disallowance of Rs. 10, 00,000/- under Section 14A of the Act: 4.1 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. DRP and
 the Ld. AO (following the directions of the DRP) erred in making disallowance under section 14A of the Act amounting to Rs 10,00,000 towards the indirect expenses
 incurred, purportedly incurred towards earning of exempt income. 4.2 The Appellant prays that the Ld. AO be directed to delete the said disallowance
 of Rs. 10, 00,000/- under section 14A of the Act

 4.3 without prejudice, the Appellant prays that the disallowance of Rs. 10, 00,000/-
 made u/s. 14A be appropriately reduced. V. Levy of Interest under section 234B and 234C of the Act: On the facts and in the
 circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. DRP and the Ld. AO (following the
 directions of the DRP) erred in not deleting the interest charged by the AO under section 234B and 234C of the Act

 5.2 The Appellant prays that the Ld. AO be directed to delete the said interest
 under section 234B and 234C of the Act." 2. In ITA No. 702/Mum/2014 for A.Y. 2009-10, the Assessee has raised
grounds similar to A.Y. 2006-07 except these two grounds taken first time and
different from A.Y. 2006-07, which are as follows: 3.1 Issue of equity shares 7 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. 3.1.1 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in upholding the Transfer Pricing
(TP) adjustment of Rs. 932.34 Crores, on account of alleged shortfall in the value
of equity shares, since transfer pricing provisions provided under Chapter X of the
Act do not apply to issuance of equity shares. 3.1.2 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in making an addition on account of
the alleged shortfall in the price of equity shares issued without giving any cogent
reasons for not accepting the submissions made by the Appellant that such
deemed receipts are not 'income' taxable under the Act. 3.1.3 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO grossly erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in failing to appreciate that
the transaction relating to issue of equity shares is a capital receipt in the hands
of the Appellant and does not result into an income taxable under provision of
the Act. 3.1.4 on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred by failing to appreciate that in the
absence of any income, transfer pricing provisions do not apply to issuance of
equity shares. Consequently, the DRP ought to have held that reference of the
transaction to the TPO under Section 92CA (1) of the Act for determination of
Arm's Length Price (ALP) is untenable and bad in law. 3.1.5 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon'ble
DRP erred in concluding that the variation in the ALP of an international
transaction as determined by the AO/ TPO under Chapter X of the Act would be a
part of "notional income" and hence would fall within the definition of the term
"Income" as defined under section 2(24) of the Act, irrespective of whether or not
it is otherwise taxable under normal provisions of the Act. 3.1.6 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon'ble
DRP erred in concluding that (i) the Appellant has extinguished relinquished the
right to receive the fair market value of shares and (ii)
Extinguishment/Relinquishment of a right to receive the fair market value of
shares is a "Transfer" as defined under section 2(47) of the Act for the purposes of
determination of Capital Gains. 3.1.7. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon'ble
DRP erred in making wrong references to section 47(iv) , (v) and (vid) without 8 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. appreciating that these sections have no application whatsoever to the facts of
the present case and further that these sections nowhere suggest that issue of
shares is taxable

3.1.8 on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon'ble
DRP further erred in relying on section 56(2) (x) (via) and 58(2) (xvii) (b) of the
Act. 3.1.9 on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon'ble
DRP erred in concluding that Chapter X of the Act is a separate code in itself and Section 92 of the Act is a separate charging provision. 3.1.10 on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon'ble
DRP erred in concluding that share premium is liable to be assessed to tax as
income by wrongfully drawing reference from proviso to Section 68 of the Act. 3.1.11 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in assuming the transaction relating
to issue of equity shares as an international transaction within the explanation (i) (c) to Section 92B of the Act inserted vide Finance Act 2012 with retrospective
effect from 1 April 2002. 1.1.12 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in not appreciating the fact that the
Appellant has received the said amount from its 100 percent parent as capital
contribution based on the business and commercial expediency wherein the
number of shares and issue price are not determinative factors. The TPO/ AO/
DRP ought to have held that since 100 percent shares are held by the parent of
the Appellant both before and after the issuance of shares, there was no question
of over or under valuation of shares and therefore, the adjustment was wholly
misconceived. 3.1.13 on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in ignoring the fact that since the
Appellant is the 100 percent subsidiary of the Associated Enterprise (AE), the
number of equity shares held by AE is of no significance. 3.2 Valuation of equity shares 9 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. 3.2.1 on the facts and in the circumstances o the case and in law, the learned TPO
erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in disregarding the value of Rs. 156/- per
share determined by Independent valuer. 3. 2.2 on the bets and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the leased TPO
erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in not accepting the valuation done as
per CCI guidelines for computing the fair value of the unquoted shares. 3.2.3 On the facts and in the circumstances of these and in law, the learned TPO
red and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in disregarding the valuation of shares
done in accordance with CC guidelines even though such valuation was accepted
by other the Government i.e. RBI

3.2.4 on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the ld. TPO
erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in not referring the valuation of shares /
options to an expert in line with the CBDT Instruction No. 5/2011 dated 30 March
2011. 3.2.5 on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in disregarding the following
valuation reports furnished during the course of the assessment proceedings
without providing any cogent reasons: M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. 3.3.2 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in making a secondary adjustment
by holding that the so-called shortfall was a receivable in the absence of specific
provisions in the Act which permits such secondary adjustment. 3.3.3 on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in re-characterizing the legitimate
business transaction of issue of shares into a transaction of loan in the absence of
any statutory provisions authorizing such re-characterization. 3.3.4 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO//AO/ DRP erred in not appreciating the fact that without the prior approval
of the Reserve Bank of India, the characterization of the shortfall in issuance of
equity into a debt would be contrary to the provisions of the Foreign Exchange
Management Act, 1999 . The TPO AO/ DRP erred in making an assumption which
imputes illegality to the transaction, which is not permissible. 3.3.5 on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred by failing to appreciate the fact that
under the prevailing laws and regulations, Indian subsidiary company is not
permitted to give loan to foreign holding company. 3.3.6 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon'ble
DRP erred in wrongly concluding that in the course of determining the ALP of the
share issue transaction, the TPO came across another transaction (i.e., the
amount due as fair market value was left with the AE) which tantamount as an
arrangement as defined under section 92F (v) of the Act thereby failing to
appreciate that the TPO/AO exceeded jurisdiction by splitting a single transaction
into two. 3.4 Interest on Deemed Loan

3.4.1 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the learned
TPO grossly erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in enhancing the adjustment
as regards interest on the so-called deemed loan by adopting an adhoc and
arbitrary approach to determine the rate of interest to be imputed on the so-
called deemed loan. 3.4.2 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon'ble
DRP erred in holding that interest rate needs to be adjusted for the credit risk 11 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. borne in case of transactions with AE and further erred in arbitrarily determining
 a 3 percent addition on account of credit risk. 3.4.3 Without prejudice, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in
 law, the learned TPO erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in not considering
 interest in borrower's (parent company's) country i.e. the Netherlands. 3.4.4 Without prejudice, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in
 law, the learned TPO erred and the Hon'ble DRP further erred in not adopting
 LIBOR rates for imputing interest on the deemed loan to AE. The Appellant prays that the additions to the appellant's income made in
 relation to transfer pricing matters by the AO/ TPO be deleted. VI. Disallowance of loss on account of error trades amounting to Rs. 21,
 24,000/- 6.1 On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the AO erred in
 treating the loss of Rs. 21,24,000 incurred on account of error trades as
 speculation loss by invoking the Explanation to section 73 of the Act. The Appellant prays that the AO be directed to allow the loss on error trades as it
 is a loss incidental to its broking business under section 28 of the Act. The Appellant craves leave to add or alter, by deletion, substitution,
 modification or otherwise, the above grounds of appeal, either before or during
 the hearing of the appeal." 3. In ITA No. 1661/Mum/2014 for A.Y. 2009-10, the Revenue has raised the
following grounds of appeal: 2. on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the impugned order
 of the DRP-1 is contrary to law and consequently merits to be set aside that of the
 Assessing Officer be restored." 3. The appellant craves leave to amend or alter any ground or add a new ground
 which may be necessary." M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. 4. Brief facts of the case are that assessee filed its return of income on
28.11.2006 declaring total income at Rs. 51,11,44,760/-. The case was selected for
scrutiny. Assessee is engaged in share broking and is a member of Bombay Stock
Exchange (BSE) and National Stock Exchange (NSE). Assessee is primarily catering
to FIIs as well as local financial institutions the assessee renders its services for
dealing in shares / debentures, Government Securities and PSU Bonds as
Category-1, Merchant Banker in Corporate Finance and Advisory Transaction. 5. It was seen during the assessment proceedings that assessee had entered
into international transactions with its AEs. During the relevant Financial Year (FY)
these transactions were listed in the Auditor's Report also in Form No. 3CEB
submitted along with the return. To determine the ALP of these transactions, the
matter was referred to the TPO under section 92CA (1) . TPO in his order under section 92CA (3) has determined an adjustment of Rs. 2, 38, 85,342/- under the
following heads: 6. These adjustments determined by the TPO under section 92CA (3) were
added back to the income of the assessee. In addition to this, AO disallowed VSAT
charges and lease line charges payable to Stock Exchange on account of services
provided by with regard to transactions in securities through the Exchange 13 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. amounting to Rs. 2,58,839/- on account of non-deduction of TDS under section
40a(ia) of the Act. AO further disallowed Rs. 27, 16, 560/- under section 14A .
Against this draft order of AO, assessee objected the same before the DRP
through Form No. 35A. 7. DRP vide its order under section 144C (13) sustained the draft order of AO
as far as addition on account of TP Adjustment and disallowance under section
40a (ia) is concerned. As far as disallowance under section 14A is concerned, DRP
reduced the amount from Rs. 27,16,560/- to Rs. 10,00,000/-. Being aggrieved with
this order of AO, passed to comply with the directions of DRP, the assessee
preferred appeal before ITAT. 8. We have gone through the draft assessment order, order of TPO under section 92CA (3) , directions of DRP under section 144C (13) and final assessment
order under section 143(3) r.w.s. 144C of the Act. We found that in A.Y. 2005-06,
the method of determining the Arm's Length Price (ALP) as adopted by the
assessee was accepted by the Department. Not only were these, for A.Y. 2003-04
& 2004-05 the TNMM Method as selected by assessee for benchmarking the
International Transactions accepted by the Revenue. In Income Tax proceedings
the principle of res-judicata is not applicable but the concept of the principle of
consistency has to be maintained by the both the sides unless there is a
difference in the facts or the law applicable for the year under consideration. It
can be reasonably presumed that assessee must have carried out a judicious and
methodical economic analysis based on the guidelines laid down in the legislation
for A.Y. 2003-04 to A.Y. 2005-06 based on which a clean report was given by the
TPO for those years. M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. 9. It is observed that during the F.Y. ended 31.03.2006, the Assessee was
engaged in Clearing House (CH) and Delivery vs. Payment ('DVP) trade
transactions with its AEs. To briefly explain the nature of activity, stock broking
transactions may be executed either on Delivery vs. Payment basis (DVP) or on
Clearing House (CH) basis. (a) CH trades: CH trades are where the settlement obligation is transferred from
the stock broker to the client's custodian. Hence, the stock broker does not take
the onus of either funding or settling the trade. In case of deals with AEs, the
trades are generally intended to be settled through the clearing house
mechanism; (b) DVP trade: In a DVP trade, a broker uses his own funds to settle the trade for a
client. In case of a sale deal, the client delivers the securities only after receiving
payment from the broker. Similarly, in case of a purchase deal, the client pays
only after receiving delivery of securities from the broker. A.2.2 Functions performed by the Assessee

The typical functions performed in respect of equity broking trades are discussed
below: 10. Section 92C (3) specifies for preconditions, at least one of which has to be
satisfied before taking any adverse action against the assessee. Apparently it
appears that assessee has conducted a proper benchmarking analysis and the AO
cannot make a fresh analysis unless he is able to establish that the assessee falls
under the purview of section 92C (3) . During the year the has earned an NPM of
49.41% from the provisions of broking services to its AEs whereas as TP Study of
companies broadly comparable to the assessee after applying the quantitative
and qualitative filters, NPM comes in a range of 19.58% to 37.71% with an
arithmetical mean of 20.63%. We found that necessary working along with audit
report and TP Study were duly submitted by the assessee and TPO was not in a
position to disregard TNMM i.e. assessee's choice of most appropriate method.
The TPO simply mentioned in his order "The CUP is the most desirable and
preferred method for determining the Arms Length. TNMM is a residual method
which is a very crude method for benchmarking. This view is also endorsed by the
OECD commentary on the subject. Therefore CUP method will get preference over
the TNMM method for benchmarking the ALP." 11. Further, the Assessee had also provided details in the transfer pricing
documents on why the CUP could not be applied in its case, which has been
reproduced below: 12. Further the Board's Circular / Instruction No. 14/2001 and 3 respectively
also provide as under: The transfer price has to be determined by the TPO in terms of Section 92C . The
 price has to be determined by any one of the methods stipulated in sub-section
 (1) of Section 92C and by applying the most appropriate method referred to in
 sub-section (2) thereof." As can be seen from the above, the CBDT has held that where: we are of the considered view that TPO, erred in disturbing the
benchmarking adopted by assessee and in turn additions made by AO was
also erroneous. We allow Ground No.1 on these facts and law. 13. For Ground No. 2 also, we observed on the facts and in the circumstances
of the case, the TPO and the AO have erred in disregarding the benchmarking
analysis conducted, search filters applied and the comparable companies selected
by the Appellant without appreciating the fact that such selection was based on
the contemporaneous data and the transfer pricing study report prepared and
maintained as per section 92D of the Act read with Rule 10D of the Income-tax
Rules, 1962 ('the Rules"). On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in
law, the TPO/AO erred in resorting to cherry-picking of comparables based on
conjectures and surmises with complete disregard to the differences in functions
performed, assets employed and risks undertaken by the Appellant. On the facts
and in the circumstances of the case and in law, TPO/AO erred in making different
decision, despite the fact that the TPO had not provided any basis for arriving at
the margins of the comparable companies selected by him to arrive at the arm's
length price of the international transaction undertaken by the Appellant, thereby
amounting to denial of principles of natural justice. The TPO/AO/ DRP erred in
rejecting the use of multiple year data as permitted under the provisions of Rule
10B (4) of the Rules. The TPO/AO was legally not entitled to determine the arm's
length price based on data which was not available as on the specified date (as
defined in Section 92F (IV) of the Act read with Rule 10B (4) of the Rules].
Moreover, TPO/AO erred in not allowing risk adjustments as warranted under
Rule 10B (1) (xe) (ii) of the Rules. M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. 14. In the grounds of appeal assessee vide ground no. 2.9 challenged the
rejection of certain bench mark companies as provided in ground itself and vide
ground no. 2.10 assessee challenged inclusion of certain bench mark companies
and wants the same to be excluded but during argument assessee argued in
favour of following four companies for exclusion only. So, our analysis and
adjudication is limited to these four companies only for the purposes of exclusion
as under for A.Y. 2006-07 (Exclusions only) and A.Y. 2009-10 (Exclusions and
Inclusions both): M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. Travelex India (P.) Ltd V. DCIT The company cannot be
 [2019] 106 Taxmann.com 351 accepted as it outsources a
 (Mumbai ) considerable portion of its
 business and functionally
 different
Asit C Mehta The company has undergone HSBC Electronic Data Rejected by ITAT on the
Financial Services amalgamation during the year which Processing India Ltd. v. ACIT basis of the company
(Nucleus Netsoft has changed the business model of [2013] 38 taxmann.com 141
and Gis (India) the company. (Hyderabad-Tribunal) undergoing
Limited) a) The relevant extracts of Directors amalgamation during
 Report is reproduced the year which has
 I) "The scheme of amalgamation of changed the business
 erstwhile Nucleus Netsoft and GIS
 (India) Ltd. The transferor company
 model of the company
 with your company was sanctioned by and also the company
 Hon'ble High Court of Mumbai on 22nd outsource significant
 February. 2006. On complying with portion of its work
 the requisite formalities, the scheme
 became effective and operative
 retrospectively from the appointed
 date of 1 April 2005, as per the
 scheme. In the accompanying financial
 statements, results of the transferor
 company have been incorporated and
 the figures herein and elsewhere in
 this annual report are not strictly
 comparable with those of previous
 year." (Refer page 507 of the paper
 book) (ii) " The financial year under review of
 2005-06 was a year of growth and 21 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. consolidation for your company. The
company posted a strong top line
performance (post amalgamation)
with the total sales and services
revenues of Rs. 56.77 million. The
company also earned a healthy profit
after tax of Rs 25.17 million and
earnings per share of Rs. 5.08 per
equity share iii) " We focused more on exports as a
key driver for future growth. We also
improved resource utilization in terms
of capacity on all fronts. We have
added clients and had increased
business from existing clients." (Refer page 507 of the paper book) iv) "On amalgamation we have
transformed ourselves into a
sustainable growth centric company. Our strategy for growth is to remain
export driven and strengthen the
presence in the international
marketed..." (Refer page 508 of the
paper book)
) For detailed note on amalgamation
refer pages 535 and 536 of the paper
book. 1)The company is Functionally not
comparable
The company earns revenue from IT
enabled services and software
development services and no
segmental information is available. (1) The Management discussion and
Analysis states the company is into
ITES and Software Services (Refer page
510 of the paper book)
li) The company has earned revenue
from Services and Software services
(Refer page 511 and 531 of the paper
book) i) The company's segmental disclosure
note mentions primary reporting
segments as Information Technology
Enabled Services and Software
development, PMS and Investment
activities. (Refer page 539 of the paper
book)
liv) The balance sheet abstract
mentions principal activity as IT
Enables & Software Service and
Portfolio Management Services. (Refer
page 542 of the paper book)
LI)The company has outsourced
signification portion of its business
The company has data processing
charges of 1.05 Crores of total
expenses of 4.24 Crores which 22 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. accounts for 24.76% of total expenses. According on account of above stated
 reasons the company cannot be
 accepted as comparable. M/s TNS India Pvt. Ltd. v. Rejected by ITAT on the
 ACIT [2014] 48 taxmann.com basis of the company
 80 (Hyderabad-Tribunal)
 undergoing
 amalgamation during
 the year which has
 changed the business
 model of the company
 Franklin Templeton Rejected by ITAT on the
 International Services (India) basis that extraordinary
 (P.) Ltd. v. DCIT [2018] 89
 taxmann.com 439 (Mumbai- financial event of
 Tribunal) amalgamation has
 taken place during the
 year. M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. Limited (ITA No. 6332/ Mum/ 2008)
 wherein it was held that the non- supply of basic data vitiates the whole
 TP exercise. As a quasi judicial
 authority TO is required to follow the
 principles of natural justice. It is clearly evident that the company
 fails the RPT filter of 25 % and hence
 the company cannot be accepted as a
 comparable. International Services (India) basis of that financials
 (P.) Ltd. v. DCIT [2018] 89
 taxmann.com 439 (Mumbai- were not available on
 Tribunal) public domain and it
 had related party
 transactions greater
 than 25%
Maple eSolutions (1) The company's owner / director CIT v. Cummins Turbo The HC uphold
Ltd. are involved in fraud In the company Technologies Ltd (2018] Tribunal's order that
 cannot be accepted as owner/ director
 have been involved in fraud and the 91 taxmann.com 307 the company cannot be
 financial statements are unreliable. (Bombay HC) accepted as its 24 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. (I) No financials were available owner/director has a) The annual report the company was been involved in fraud.
not available in the public domain and
hence the company was not able to
analyse the functions undertaken by
the company. (Refer page 437 of the
paper book) b) The Appellant relies on the judicial
decision of M/s Star India Private
Limited (ITA No. 6332/ Mum/ 2008)
wherein it was held that the non- supply of basic data vitiates the whole
TP exercise. As a quasi judicial
authority TPC is required to follow the
principles of natural justice. M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. AY. 2009-10

Infosys BPO Ltd. The company is Functionally not Commissioner of Income Tax The High Court has upheld
 comparable -2, Pune V. Principal Global the order of the Tribunal in
 Services (P.) Ltd. (2018 95 rejecting Infosys BPO Ltd. M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. accepted as comparable
Eclerx Services Ltd. The company is Functionally not Maersh Global Centres The company has been
 comparable ( India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ACIT rejected by the ITAT due to
 (2014) 31 ITR (T) 1 (Mumbai- significantly high turnover (i) Knowledge Process Outsourcing Tribunal Special Bench) and presence of brand value.
 ("KPO") Services The company is a
 KPO which is functionally different Research Pvt. Ltd. V/s ITO Functionally not comparable-
 from routine BPO services. The ward 2(1) (2014) 49 mainly engaged in providing
 relevant annual report extracts are taxmann.com 409 high-end services involving
 reproduced (Hyderabad- Tribunal) specialized knowledge and
 domain expertise in the field. below a) "Eclerx services Limited is a Capital IQ Information
 KPD company Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Functionally not comparable- ACIT (2014) 49 taxmann.com mainly engaged in providing
 the paper book) 313 (Hyderabad -Tribunal) high-end services involving
 specialized knowledge and
 proving data analytics process Hyundai Motors India domain expertise in the field.
 solutions to global enterprise clients Engineering Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT (refer page 741 (2014) 49 taxmann.com 290 Functionally not comparable- (Hyderabad-Tribunal) mainly engaged in providing b) "Eclerx accessed the capital markets high-end services involving
 in December 2007 and became India specialized knowledge and
 first public listed Knowledge Process domain expertise in the field.
 Outsourcing company refer page 741
 of the paper book) c) What is really interesting about
 Eclerx though, is the way we have
 made an inherently niche, high end,
 KPO data analytics business scalable
 by combining people, process re- engineering and automation in a
 potent n nt mix to build propriety,
 platform based services" (refer page
 744 of the paper book) d) The industry overview states "KPO
 represents the next step in the
 evolutionary cycle of the outsourcing
 market. Unlike BPOs, which focus on
 processes that are rules based and
 transactional, a KPO requires
 specialized knowledge and the ability
 to handle more complex activities... (refer page 755 of the paper book) e) The company's income from
 operations consists of revenue from
 data analytics services and process
 solutions. (Refer page 759 and 787 of
 the paper book) f) The balance sheet abstract
 mentions the principal
 product/service of the company as
 Knowledge Processing Outsourcing
 (Refer page 799 of the paper book)
 H The company has experienced high It is apparent from the
 growth which is in contrast to nature of the activity of this 27 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. declining revenues experienced by the company that it is not
 IT and ITAT The relevant extracts of providing a simple service of
 Chairman's message are reproduced data processing but it is
 below: Whilst maintaining margins. engaged in the activity of
 providing high-end services
 Without what, a year it's been for involving decision making
 ecterx. in the midst of slowdown and analysis which requires
 recession, we have Grown revenue by thought process and
 51% and profits by 39% evaluation of various facts
 " (Refer page 743 of the paper book) and factors. Thus, it is to be
 » " We added 446 employees in the held that this company is not
 year and our 73000 sq ft state of art a comparable with BPO
 Pune SFZ facility became operational a company which are engaged
 critical milestone for growth. The only in low end services of
 softer talent market has been a boon data processing
 for us? We have been able to hire and
 retain excellent talent at all level or
 the firm. Whilst companies have
 retrenched we have invested. We
 have doubled our senior management
 strength and selectively added strong
 talent throughout the team..." (Refer
 page 743 of the paper book) (it)
 Business Restructuring / Environment
 peculiar to the company
 The company had acquired IT in year
 2007, however the business
 restructuring was completed during
 the financial 2008-09, contracts o the
 subsidiaries which were wound up
 during the year were transferred to
 Eclerx. (Refer Page 756 of the paper
 book). Accordingly owing to above reasons
 the company cannot be accepted as
 comparable

Cosmic Global The company is Functionally not CIT-2, Pune vs. Principal The business model of the
Limited comparable Global Service (P) Ltd. (2018) comparable being of out
 (1) The relevant factor in choosing 95 taxmann.com 315 sourcing its servicing is
 comparable cases is to find out (Bombay High Court) different from the in-house
 similarity in the nature of services business model of providing
 rendered. In that view a case in which Mercer Consulting (India) (P.) services adopted by the
 services are outsourced and then Ltd. v. Deputy Commissioner Respondent . This finding of
 provided to its customers cannot be of fact by the Tribunal based on
 compared with the rendering of in- Income-tax, Circle-2, difference in business model,
 house services. There is a vast Gurgaon - [2014] 47 resulting in Cosmic Global
 difference in the cases where the taxmann.com 84 (Delhi - Ltd., not being a comparable,
 services are outsourced or provided Trib.) is a possible view on facts.
 in-house and there cannot be any The Punjab & Haryana High
 comparison between such types of Capital 1Q Information Court held that the
 cases. Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs outsourcing charges of the (ii) The company is primarily engaged ACIT (2014] 49 taxmann.com company constitute 57.31
 in translation services and the BPO 313 (Hyderabad - Tribunal.) per cent of its total operating
 segment contributes to less than 5 costs whereas the annual
 percent of the total turnover. Further, M/s. Hyundai Motors India account of Cosmic Global
 majority of the business is outsourced Engineering P. Ltd vis. DCIT Limited indicates a total
 to a third party. While rendering the (2014] 49 taxmann.com 290 revenue from operations of 28 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. services as against that of the (Hyderabad - Tribunal.) Rs.7.37 Crores of which Rs.
Appellant wherein services are 9.90 lacs were in respect of
rendered in-house. M/s. Excellence Data medical transcription and (iii) The outsourcing charges of the Research Pvt. Ltd. v/s. consultancy services, Rs. 6.99
assessee constitute 57.31% of its total Income Tax Officer ward 2(1) Crores were towards
operating costs. The annual account of [2014] 49 taxmann.com 409 translation charges and only
Cosmic Global Limited indicates total (Hyderabad - Tribunal.) Rs. 27.76 lacs were on
revenue from operations of Rs.7.37 account of the BPO services.
Crores of which Rs. 9.90 lacs were in Integreon (India) (P.) Ltd. v. Thus the company's
respect of medical transcription and Income Tax Officer, Ward- outsourcing activities
consulting services, Rs. 6.99 Crores 11(4), New Delhi [2018] 99 constitute 57 per cent of its
were towards translation charges and taxmann.com 263 (Delhi - total expenses whereas the
only Rs. 27.76 lacs were on account of Tribunal.) similar activity of Cosmic
the BPO services. Thus the assessee's Global Ltd. viz. the BPO
outsourcing activities constitute 57% Deputy Commissioner of segment was only Rs. 27.76
of its total expenses whereas the Income-tax, Circle-11(4), lacs which are but a small
similar activity of Cosmic Global Ltd. Bangalore v. Informatics fraction of its total revenue
viz. the BPO segment was only Rs. Business (P.) Ltd. [2019] 106 from al its operations.
27.76 lacs which are but a small taxmann.com 354 Accordingly, Cosmic Global
fraction of its total revenue from all its (Bangalore - Tribunal.) was rejected.
operations. (Source: Commissioner of The company cannot be Income-tax, Faridabad v. Mercer accepted as it has very low
Consulting (India) (P.) Ltd - HIGH turnover from BPO business
COURT (2016) 76 taxmann.com 153 (Rs. 27.76 lacs out of total
(Punjab & Haryana High Court) turnover of Rs. 7.37 Crores). M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. schedule 8 to the profit and
 loss account which reveals
 that major revenue of Rs. 7
 Crore out of total revenue of
 Rs. 7.37 Crores has been
 earned by this company from
 the activity of translation
 services. It is to be noted
 further that the company has
 debited an expenditure of
 more than Rs. 3 crore on
 account of translations
 charges paid. Thus, it is clear
 that this company is
 outsourcing its services of
 translation work which is the
 main activity of this company
 yielding major revenue
 earned during the year. Genesys The company is Functionally not Mercer Consulting (India) (P) Rejected by ITAT as it
International comparable Ltd. Vs. DCIT, Circle-2 , functionally not comparable
Corporation Ltd. © The company's website depicts the Gurgaon- (2014) 47 as the company is engaged in
 services offered are Geospatial, taxmann.com 84 (Delhi) providing full range of
 engineering an application geospatial services, which
 development services deal with relative position of
 Corporation Ltd. a) The services under Capital IQ Information things on earth's surface
 Geospatial are: Photogrammely: data Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. which is not comparable to
 conversion, data migration, data ACIT (2014) 49 taxmann.com the business of the
 maintenance, application 313 (Hyderabad -Tribunal) Appellant. M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. of business and society." (Refer page which is not comparable to
837 of the paper book) the business of the b) " We are progressing well towards Appellant.
our goal to be an innovation and IP-led
geospatial solutions provider touching
all core areas of
the economy. (Refer page 838 of the
paper book) c) The company competes with
Microsoft. Nokia, Digital Globe,
Google Earth, etc. (Refer page 838 of
the paper book) d) The company is exclusive reseller
for NAVTEQ data foot the enterprise
space in India. NAVTEQ is the world
leader in navigable Maps and Street
Data. (Refer page 839 of the paper
book)
) The companies capabilities is GIS
Consulting, 3D Mapping, Navigation
maps. Lidar, photogrammetric Remote
sensing services, utility services, image
processing, surveying, business
geographic & logistics, cadastral
mapping, city scale and
telecommunication refer page 849
and 850 or the paper book) 1) The industry overview, challenges &
opportunism are in relation to
Geographical Information System
('GIS) Industry (Refer page
876 of the paper book)
(il) The company during the year was
engaged in providing Geographical
Information Services comprising of
photogrammetric, Remote Sensing,
Cartography, Data Conversion and
other computer based related
services. However it operated in single
primary segment i.e. GIS based
services (refer page 890 and 901 of
the paper book) (iv) The company's balance sheet
abstract mentions the principal
activity of the company as Computer
Software. (refer page 905 of the paper
book)
(U)The company has earned abnormal
profits during the year
The company has earned abnormal
profits during the year. The
Chairman's report and managing
directors extract is reproduced "It
gives me great pleasure to report to
you the financial performance for the
last year. Our sales grew by 77% and
our net profits by 107%" (Refer page
838 of the paper book) 31 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. Accordingly owing to above reasons
 the company cannot be accepted as
 comparable
Allsec Technologies Mercer Consulting (India) (P) PO rejected as the company Ltd. Ltd. Vs. DCIT, Circle-2 , failed export filter - 74.45%
(for the purposes of Gurgaon- (2014) 47 against TO filter of 75%. ITAT
inclusion) taxmann.com 84 (Delhi) observed that the difference
 is miniscule and hence the
 American express (India) (P) company should be accepted Ltd. Vs. ACIT, Circle-1 (1) New International.
 Delhi (2018) 97 taxmann.com
 180 (Delhi-Tribunal)) The reasons assigned by TPO
 of putting such a ceiling for
 exclusion of this company
 cannot be upheld looking to
 the fact that the difference of
 the ceiling put by the TPO is
 only 0.5% by relying on the
 judgment of Mercer
 Consulting (India)
 (P.) Ltd. on the same very
 grounds. R. Systems The Company is functionally Mercer Consulting (India) (P) The Punjab & Haryana High
International Ltd. comparable but has a different Ltd. Vs. DCIT, Circle-2 , Court held that the rule does
(for the purposes of Financial Year end. Gurgaon- (2014) 47 not exclude from
inclusion) (1)The company's data for a financial taxmann.com 84 (Delhi) consideration the data of an
 year can be extra-plated with credible entity merely because its
 accuracy and there is no reason why CIT Vs. Mckinsey Knowledge financial year is different
 the said comparable should be centre India Pvt. Ltd. TS-672 from the financial year of the
 rejected. Moreover, the data for nine HC-2015 (Del HC) assessee. The rule requires
 months is common for both the that the data used in
 comparable and the Appellant. American express (India) (P) analyzing the financial results
 working Ltd. Vs. ACIT, Circle-1 (1) New of an uncontrolled
 Accordingly in the view of above, the Delhi (2018) 97 taxmann.com transaction with an
 comparable has to be accepted. 180 (Delhi-Tribunal)) international transaction
 shall be the data relating to
 the financial year in which
 the international transaction
 has been entered into. Thus
 so long as the data relating to
 the financial year is available,
 it does not matter if the
 financial year followed is
 different. In the instant case
 the data relating to the
 relevant financial year of R.
 Systems International
 Limited is available and
 hence considered as
 comparable. The HC uphold the tribunal's
 decision that if the data for a
 financial year can be extra- M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. said comparable should be
 rejected. 15. We have gone through the table compiled and submitted by assessee as
reproduced above in para 14. We have deliberated on the facts of the
comparables as mentioned above and found the submissions of the assessee are
to be in order. For example, in the case of M/s. Vishal Information Technologies
Ltd., model of business is altogether different. M/s. Asit C Mehta Financial
Services (Nucleus Netsoft and Gis (India) Limited, certain extra ordinary events
occurred in this company, this company is a software company and involved in
ITES further no segmental data provided for this comparable. M/s. Datamatics
Financial Services limited. In this comparable related party transactions are
crossing the bench mark limit of 25%. M/s. Maple eSolutions Ltd. for A.Y. 2006-07
and in same for A.Y. 2009-10 for the comparable names mentioned in table above
(Both exclusions and inclusions). 16. In view of above observations and the specific facts of the case relying on
the principle of consistency and Board's Circular mentioned (supra), 33 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. Ground No. 2 raised by assessee on the premises that TPO/AO erred in making
cherry picking of comparables based on conjectures and surmises with complete
disregard to the differences in functions performed, assets employed and risks
under taken by the assessee. We allow ground no. 2 raised by the assessee to
the extent argued before us. 17. The 3rd Ground raised by the assessee pertains to Disallowance of VSAT
and Lease Charges paid to NSE and BSE without deduction of T.D.S. u/s.
194C/194J hence disallowable u/s. 40a(ia). This issue is squarely covered by
assessee's own case for A.Y. 2005-06 before coordinate bench of ITAT vide ITA
No. 133/M/2009 and Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court vides Income Tax Appeal
No. 1230 of 2013. Relevant extract of ITATs order on similar issue in the case of
assessee is as under: 18. In view of the above decision of coordinate bench of ITAT and Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court in assessee's own case, nothing adduce afresh by the
Revenue, which can prompt us to take any deviation from the earlier position.
This view of ITAT and Hon'ble Bombay High Court further confirmed by the
Hon'ble Apex Court (in the case of Kotak Securities Ltd. [2016] 383 ITR 1 (SC.))
once for all and declared that such type of payments are not liable to TDS at all. In
the light of above ground no. 3 raised by the assessee is allowed. 19. The 4th Ground of appeal pertains to disallowance u/s. 14A of the Act. This
issue also dealt with by the coordinate bench of ITAT in assessee's own case for
A.Y.s 2002-03, 2004-05 and 2005-06 vide ITA No. 6762, 3186 and
6979/Mum/2005, 2008 and 2008 respectively. Again the facts of the year under
consideration are same and revenue is failed to adduce any fresh argument of
variation in facts which can prompt us to take any deviation from earlier position.
In A.Y. 2002-03, 2004-05 and 2005-06 as mentioned (supra) amount of
disallowance under section 14A was limited maximum up to Rs. 2,20,000/-.
Quantum of investments for the year under consideration is also similar to that of
A.Y. 2005-06, in view of this amount of disallowance under section 14A for this
year also is restricted up to Rs. 2, 20,000/- only against the disallowance of Rs. 10,
00,000/- made by AO and confirmed by DRP. Although position w.e.f. A.Y. 2008-
09 has been changed as Rule 8D came into force from A.Y. 2008-09. So, for A.Y.
2009-10 it is observed that all the investments made by the assessee are out of 35 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. his own funds so there cannot be any disallowance on front of interest. Secondly,
there is no change in investments in subsidiaries and investment made in the
scheme of HSBC Mutual Fund (group concern) does not require much deliberation
on the administrative or accounting side. Although assessee suo-moto offered
disallowance under section 14A amounting to Rs. 12.85 Lakhs on account of
Employee Cost & Proportionate overheads amounting to Rs. 10.35 Lakhs and Rs.
2.5 Lakhs respectively. It is a settled position of law where amount of investments
are lesser than or equal to assessee's own funds, no disallowance in Rule 8D (2)(ii)
can be made on account of interest element and as far as disallowance for the
purposes of Rule 8D(2)(i) is concerned assessee suo-moto offered 18.25 Lakhs as
disallowance which is not under challenge by the Revenue. As far as disallowance
under Rule 8D (2)(iii) Is concerned, no disallowance can be made where
investments are of strategic nature. With this background, we allow the ground of
assessee and hold that disallowance under section 14A for the A.Y. 2006-07 is
restricted up to Rs. 2.2 Lakhs and Rs. 18.25 Lakhs for A.Y. 2009-10. 20. Ground No.5 pertaining to levy of interest under section 234B and 234C raised for A.Y. 2006-07. On this issue, we hold that interest under section 234C is
limited up to the returned income of the assessee and has no connection with any
further addition or disallowance made by the Revenue. Hence, if any variation is
there in charging of interest under section 234C above the figure of returned
income, same directed to be deleted and interest under section 234B is
consequential in nature, hence, no specific adjudication is required. 21. In the result appeal filed by the assessee is allowed. M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. 22. Ground No. 1, 2, 4 & 5 already discussed and adjudicated in ITA No.
4459/Mum/2014 for A.Y. 2006-07 (supra). As the facts and law applicable is
similar, hence, our findings mutatis mutandis applicable to this appeal also. 23. Ground No. 3 pertains to issue of equity shares on undervalued figures and
consequent treatment of the same as deemed loan and interest thereon. During
the year under consideration, the assessee had issued 3, 78, 61, 200 equity shares
of Rs. 100/- each to its AE viz. HSBC Investment Bank Holding B.V. at Rs. 250 per
share from the assessee's prospective the transaction was at Arm's Length as the
valuation of share as per certificate issued in accordance with the guidelines laid
down by the Controller of Capital Issues Act, 1947. Assessee submitted valuation
report during the TP Proceedings on the basis of Discounted Cash Flow Method
(DCM) at Rs. 244 per share, which the TPO rejected and substituted the same
with his own working on the basis of PECV Method thus arriving at value of Rs.
496 per share; this led to an adjustment of Rs. 932.34 Cr. The TPO held the excess
amount paid as the interest free loan to the AE and charged ALP interest @
15.55% this led to the interest adjustment of Rs. 59.97 Cr. 24. The transaction of purchase of equity shares, whether it is in the nature of
inbound investment or outbound investment is a capital account transaction
which does not give rise to any income chargeable to tax in India under the
provision of the Act. Cases of outbound investment have also been specifically
adjudicated upon by Hon'ble Bombay High Court and Hon'ble Tribunals wherein it
has been held that purchase of shares of an AE is not an international transaction 37 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. as there is no income arising on account of such transactions: Pr Comm. Income
tax-7 vs. PMP Auto Components Pvt. Ltd (Bombay HC 1685 of 2016): 25. Pr. Comm. of Income Tax-13 vs. Tops Group Electronics Systems Ltd
(Bombay HC 1721 of 2016) has upheld order of the Hon'ble ITAT in M/s. Tops
group Electronic Systems Ltd vs. Income Tax Officer-8 (3)(3) (ITA 2115/Mum 2015). M/s. TCG Life sciences Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT, Circle-11 (2) (ITA No. 121/Kol/2016 &
647/Kol/2017). Vijay Electricals Ltd vs. Addl . Commissioner of Income-tax (ITA 842
/ Hyd/2012). 26. In the event the alleged excessive consideration is re-characterized as a
'deemed loan', the Assessee could not have lent this amount to its AE outside
India in view of the Foreign Exchange Management (Borrowing or Lending in
Foreign Exchange) Regulations 2000 ('Regulations. Considering the alleged excess
consideration as a 'deemed loan is itself not permissible as per the FEMA, in the
absence of a transaction, the resultant proceedings should be dropped. 27. Reference to TPO on this issue is un-warranted hence, bad in law. As
transaction of purchase of equity shares is a capital transaction and the same is 38 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. not falling in the category of International Transaction as defined in section 92 of
the Act, as there is no income arising on account of such transactions. In the light
of these observations, we set aside the action of authorities below and allow
Ground No. 3 raised by the assessee. 28. Further on similar facts and law applicable, the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High
Court came across the situation in the case of Vodafone India Services Pvt. Ltd. Vs.
Union of India [2014] 50 taxmann.com 300 (Bom.) wherein Hon'ble Jurisdictional
High Court allowed the petition of the assessee as under: 29. Further, CBDT also dealt with the similar issue vide its instruction
mentioned below: (Anchal Khandelwal) 44 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. Under Secretary to the Govt of Indi 30. In the light of above the issue of shares at a premium is on capital account
and gives rise to know income for the purposes of Chapter-X of the Act . The tax
can be charged only on income and in the absence of any income arising, the
issue of applying the measures of ALP to transactional value itself does not arise.
In the result, keeping in view the decision of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court and
CBDT Circular, order of TPO and AO is set-aside on this issue as raised in Ground
No.3 of the appeal. 31. Ground No.6 pertains to disallowance of loss on account of error trades
amounting to Rs. 21.24 Lakhs. Loss on account of error trades and client
facilitation and not on account of purchases and sales of own stock of the
assessee. In the course of executing the contracts on behalf of the clients there
could be "errors" committed by the staff of the assessee. Some of the common
types of errors are: punching wrong codes, executing purchase contract instead of
sale contract, wrong quantity, etc. In such cases, the assessee has to "square off" 32. Similar issue in assessee's own case for A.Y. 2005-06 has been allowed by
the co-ordinate bench vide ITA No. 6979/Mum/2008 as under: 33. In view of above, we found that this loss claimed by assessee does not hit
by Explanation to section 73 and it is a part of regular business transactions of the
assessee and very much allowable against the business income of the assessee.
We direct the AO to delete the disallowance and allow the same to the assessee
against its business income. Resultantly, Ground No. 6 raised by assessee is
allowed. 34. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is allowed. 35. In this appeal, Revenue raised one substantial ground and rest two are
general in nature. On ground No. 1 which is substantial in nature raised by the
Revenue has already been discussed in detail in DRP order. We have carefully
gone through and deliberated on the reasoning given in DRPs order and found the
same to be reasonable looking at the facts of the case. In the light of this we don't 47 ITA Nos. 4459, 702 & 1661/Mum/2014 M/s HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd. find any reason to disturb the same. Hence, ground no. 1 of appeal raised by
Revenue is dismissed. 36. In the result appeal filed by the revenue is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 10th day of March, 2023. 5. दवभ गीय प्रदिदनदि, आय.अपी.अदि., मु बांई/DR, ITAT, Mumbai 6. ग र्ड फ इल/Guard file. BY ORDER,
//True Copy//

 (Dy. /Asstt. Registrar)
 ITAT, Mumbai