has submitted his form for the candidature in connection
with the examination conducted for the recruitment for the
post of Constable in the year 2012. The form was submitted
online along with scanned photograph and signature of the 2 IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH Cr.A.No.314/2020 Amit Gaur vs. Union of India applicant. However, in his place he allowed co-accused
Nitesh Kumar to sit in the examination and co-accused
Nitesh Kumar had appeared in the examination by
impersonating the present applicant. The authority who had
conducted the examination caught the co-accused Nitesh
Kumar and handed over him to the Police. After registration
of the FIR, investigation was conducted in which it was
revealed that co-accused Pankaj Kumar and Nemichand had
played the role of mediator. After investigation, all the
accused persons were prosecuted. After trial, the learned
trial Court has acquitted accused Nemichand and convicted
rest of the three accused persons. Hence, this appeal. It is submitted that in this case there is no iota of
evidence to establish the fact that the present appellant
hired co-accused Nitesh Kumar who appeared in the
examination by impersonating the appellant. Therefore, if
any act of impersonation has been committed by co-accused
Nitesh Kumar, the appellant cannot be held liable for the
aforesaid act and it cannot be said that the prosecution has
established its case beyond the reasonable doubt. The
disposal of this appeal will take time. During trial, the
appellant was on bail. There is no likelihood of his
absconding. Hence, it is prayed that the execution of the
sentence of the appellant be suspended. On the other hand, learned Govt. Advocate opposed
the aforesaid contention and submitted that by cogent
evident, it is established that the appellant has submitted his
candidatureship for the post of Constable in which he has
submitted his scanned photograph and signature, however, 3 IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH Cr.A.No.314/2020 Amit Gaur vs. Union of India other co-accused Nitesh Kumar had appeared in the
examination in place of the present appellant by using the
admit card of the appellant which was downloaded through
the internet. The admit Card cannot be downloaded unless
the number of form was disclosed by the appellant to the co-
accused as the aforesaid fact was in the knowledge of the
appellant only. Apart from it, only the appellant would be
the beneficiary of the act committed by accused Nitesh
Kumar. In the aforesaid circumstances, it would be
legally presumed that the appellant instructed co-accused
Nitesh Kumar for appearing in the examination in his place
by impersonation. Unless contrary is proved by the appellant
and in the present case the appellant has not discharged this
burden. Therefore, the prosecution has proved the charges
beyond the reasonable doubt and it is a case of part of the
scandal known as 'Vyapam Scam'. If, in this case, the
sentence of the appellant is suspended after conviction,
wrong message will go to the society. Hence, application be
dismissed. Having heard the contention of the learned counsel for
the parties and on going through the record, in view of the
facts and circumstances of the case, prima facie it cannot be
said that there is a breach of the chain of circumstances to
connect the appellant with the alleged crime and held him
guilty. Considering the nature of the offence and material
available on record, without commenting anything on merit ,
this Court is of the considered view that it is not a fit case to
suspend the sentence at this stage. IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH Cr.A.No.314/2020 Amit Gaur vs. Union of India

 In case the appeal is not disposed of at earlier time,
 the appellant would be at liberty to to file a fresh application
 after completion of two years period of jail sentence. List for final hearing in due course as per the listing
 policy.