MEHINDER SINGH SULLAR , J.(oral)

 Petitioner-Adarsh @ Adrash Singh son of Ajit Singh, has

 preferred the instant petition for the grant of anticipatory bail in a case

 registered against him and his other co-accused, vide FIR No.43 dated

 24.04.2013, on accusation of having committed the offences punishable

 under Sections 354-A, 354-C, 384 IPC and Sections 66-E & 67 of The

 Information Technology Act, 2000, by the police of Police Station E-

 Division, Amritsar, invoking the provisions of Section 438 Cr.P.C. 2. Notice of the petition was issued to the State. 3. After hearing the learned counsel for the parties, going

 through the record with their valuable assistance and after deep

 consideration of the entire matter, to my mind, there is no merit in the

 instant petition in this context. 4. Ex facie, the arguments of the learned counsel that, name of

 the petitioner is not mentioned in the FIR, the telephone in question did Rani Seema 2013.12.12 17:51 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document High Court Chandigarh CRM No.M-41447 of 2013 2 not belong to him at the relevant time and since, he has been falsely

 implicated in this case by the police, so, he is entitled to the concession of

 anticipatory bail, are not only devoid of merit but misplaced as well. 5. Concisely, the prosecution claimed that the marriage of

 complainant(name intentionally withheld) was scheduled to be

 solemnized on 28.11.2013. The petitioner has sent very vulgar messages

 to her and her other relatives for the purpose of extortion. He has

 blackmailed her by projecting and displaying her objectionable

 photographs on internet. The complainant did not delete and saved the

 messages in her mobile phone as a matter of proof. During the course of

 investigation, the investigating officer has obtained the details of

 messages & photographs of the complainant displayed on the internet and

 obtained arrest warrants against the petitioner. 6. At the very outset, learned State Counsel has placed on

 record the affidavit of ASI Gurjeet Singh, the investigating officer, which

 in substance is as under:- 7. Not only that, learned State Counsel has also produced on

 record the copies of vulgar messages, notes, abuses and objectionable

 photographs. The abuses & messages etc. which were sent by the accused

 to the complainant, are so vulgar, that it is very difficult to describe them Rani Seema 2013.12.12 17:51 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document High Court Chandigarh CRM No.M-41447 of 2013 3 in black & white and the same have been kept in a sealed cover. The crux

 of vulgar messages & photographs is clear indicative of the fact that the

 accused has blackmailed and threatened the complainant with dire

 consequences, which tantamount to outrage her honour. There is prima

 facie sufficient evidence on record to support the allegations assigned to

 the accused. 8. Meaning thereby, very specific and direct allegations of

 commission of grave and heinous offences, outraging the honour of

 young girl(complainant) are attributed to the petitioner and he is not

 entitled to the concession of pre-arrest bail, as contrary urged on his

 behalf. 9. There is yet another aspect of the matter, which can be

 viewed entirely from a different angle. During the course of preliminary

 hearing of the petition, it was contended that the telephone in question

 did not belong to the petitioner at the relevant time and he has no

 connection with the commission of pointed crime. The investigating

 officer has stoutly refuted the contentions on the basis of record, which

 were found to be untenable. Therefore, the petitioner is also guilty of

 concealment of facts in this regard. Moreover, interim bail was granted,

 to enable him to join the investigation by this Court, by means of order

 dated December 06, 2013. 10. At this stage, learned State Counsel has submitted that

 neither the petitioner has joined the investigation, nor cooperated with the

 investigating agency nor appeared despite arrest warrants issued by the

 Magistrate. In this manner, he is avoiding the process of law with Rani Seema 2013.12.12 17:51 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document High Court Chandigarh CRM No.M-41447 of 2013 4 impunity. 11. Perhaps, it cannot possibly be denied that, the tendency and

 frequency of sending such vulgar messages and projecting the

 objectionable photographs on internet of innocent young girls by such

 accused, have been tremendously increasing day-by-day, ruining the

 social fabric of our society, which needs to be curbed with heavy hands. 12. Therefore, taking into consideration the direct and specific

 allegations of indicated grave & heinous crime, to my mind, the custodial

 interrogation of the petitioner is essential in this relevant connection. In

 case, he is allowed the concession of pre-arrest bail, then the police will

 be deprived from ascertaining the source of scam, recovery of mobile

 phone, messages, recordings, other case property and effective

 investigation. It will naturally adversely affect and weaken the case of

 the prosecution, which to my mind, is not legally permissible. Thus, seen

 from any angle and taking the pointed factors into focus, the petitioner is

 not entitled to the concession of pre-arrest bail in the obtaining

 circumstances of the case. 13. Otherwise also, it is now well-settled principle of law that

 the order of anticipatory bail cannot be allowed to circumvent normal

 procedure of arrest and effective investigation by the police. The Court

 has also to see that the investigation is in the province of the police and

 an order of anticipatory bail should not operate as an in-road into the

 statutory investigational powers of the police, in exercising the judicial

 discretion in granting the anticipatory bail. Sequelly, the Court should

 not be unmindful of the difficulties likely to be faced by the investigating Rani Seema 2013.12.12 17:51 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document High Court Chandigarh CRM No.M-41447 of 2013 5 agency and the public interest likely to be affected thereby. 14. No other legal point, worth consideration, has either been

 urged or pressed by the learned counsel for the parties. 15. In the light of aforesaid reasons, taking into consideration

 direct & serious allegations of grave and heinous offences, totality of

 facts & circumstances, emanating from the record, as discussed here-in-

 above and without commenting further anything on merits, lest it may

 prejudice the case of either side during the course of trial of the main

 case, as there is no merit, therefore, the instant petition for anticipatory

 bail filed by the petitioner is hereby dismissed as such. Needless to mention that nothing observed, here-in-above,

 would reflect, in any manner, on merits of the main case, as the same has

 been so recorded for a limited purpose of deciding the present petition for

 anticipatory bail only.