With consent of the parties, heard fnalll and

 disposed of. 2. Bl this petition fled under Article 226 of the

 Constitution of India, the petitioners have assailed the order

 dated Jull 26, 2019 passed bl the Scheduled Tribe Certifcate

 Scrutinl Committee, Aurangabad in short "the Committee" 3 923) wp9162-19.doc

Supreme Court judgment passed in the case of Raju

Ramsing Vasave v/s Mahesh Deorao Bhivapurkar and

others2 So also the in the case of Anand vs. Committee for

Scrutiny and Verifcation of Tribe Claims and Others3 5. The Division Bench in the case of Apoorva Vinay

Nichale (supra) in Paragraph Nos. 7 and 9 observed thus : 6. The learned Government Pleader submits that since

some interpolation is noticed in the school record of

petitioners father Pundlik Sakharam Sapkal and cousin

Sunil s/o. Bhimrao Sapkal of the petitioners, the

Committee has issued a show cause notice to the father

Pundlik Sakharam Sapkal and cousin Sunil s/o. Bhimrao

Sapkal of the petitioners. We fnd that the Committee has not ::: Uploaded on - 22/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 23/08/2019 00:33:05 ::: 5 923) wp9162-19.doc

recorded specifc fndings as regard possibilitl of some

interpolation. Be that as it mal, we have noticed that the

father Pundlik Sakharam Sapkal and cousin Sunil s/o.

Bhimrao Sapkal of the petitioners have alreadl been

granted caste validitl certifcate. Thus, in our considered view,

the reason assigned bl the Committee for rejection of the

petitioners' claim cannot be sustained as it runs contrarl to

the view taken bl the Division Bench of this Court in the case

of Apoorva Vinay Nichale (supra). 7. In the circumstances, in the light of the judgments

in the case of law laid down in the cases of Apoorva Nichale,

Anand vs. Committee and Raju Ramsing Vasave (supra),

the petitioners are entitled to be granted caste validitl

certifcate forthwith. However, the issuance of the certifcates

shall be subject to the outcome of the show cause notice

which have been issued against the father Pundlik

Sakharam Sapkal and cousin Sunil s/o. Bhimrao Sapkal

of the petitioners bl the Committee as the caste validitl

certifcates issued to the father Pundlik Sakharam Sapkal

and cousin Sunil s/o. Bhimrao Sapkal of the petitioners are

found to be based on interpolation / adverse entries. 8. In view of above, the Committee is directed to issue ::: Uploaded on - 22/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 23/08/2019 00:33:05 ::: 6 923) wp9162-19.doc

Tribe validitl certifcates to the petitioners forthwith. As the

Committee has alreadl initiated proceeding for cancellation of

validitl issued to the father Pundlik Sakharam Sapkal and

cousin Sunil s/o. Bhimrao Sapkal of the petitioners, but in

response to the Courts querl, it is assured bl the Committee

that the Committee will conclude those proceeding within a

period of six months from the date of receipt of copl of this

order. If the proceeding for cancellation of caste validitl

holders are answered against such certifcate holders, it shall

be open for the respondent Committee to issue show cause

notice to the petitioners as to whl the validitl certifcates

granted to them should not be cancelled and it will be open

for the Committee to take those proceeding to its logical end.

Needless to sal that the certifcate issued to the petitioners is

subject to the outcome of the proceeding for cancellation of

validitl issue in favour of her blood relations. 9. With the aforesaid observation, the petition is

allowed to the extent indicated above. (G.S.KULKARNI, J.) (NITIN W.SAMBRE, J.) ::: Uploaded on - 22/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 23/08/2019 00:33:05 :::