appearing for the petitioner and Mr. Bibekananda Bhuyan,
 learned counsel for the OPID. 2. The petitioner is an accused in connection with EOW
 C.I.D. Crime Branch, Odisha, Bhubaneswar P.S. Case
 No.19 of 2023 registered under Sections
 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120-B of the IPC read with Section
 66(D) of the I.T. Act and Section 6 of the OPID Act
 corresponding to C.T. Case No.05 of 2023 pending in the
 Court of Designated Court (under OPID Act ), Cuttack. 3. The prosecution case is that the petitioner in
 connivance with a Chinese National Guanhuawang has
 established a Company, namely, Bettech Technologist
 Private Limited at Bangalore and the Account No.
 920020035755448 in the name of Bettech Technologists
 Pvt. Ltd. has been maintained in Axis Bank in which the
petitioner is an authorized signatory. In that account, the
petitioner has received crores of money collecting from the
general public in different game apps downloaded from the
play store in Google and using that money in crypto
currency trading on online mode and depositors money
ultimately siphoning to China. Furthermore, Bijaya Kumar Nath received a message
on 20.04.2023 from Whatsapp Number +923098784934
belonging to one Ms. Baksi, Human Resources from
Marathon Advert. Company, who asked him if he was
interested for earning extra money, when he showed his
interest in it, the messenger sent him referral code, which
ultimately connected him to a person named Jtama on
Telegram. The said person reportedly named as Rama gave
him some task on the website www.smsmvip.com and after
completion of the task a sum of Rs.150/- was credited to
his account vide A/C No. 50100381033829 maintained in
HDFC Bank and the said amount was transferred from the
account No. 000663300004071 maintained in ICICI Bank
in the name of REDEEM and HONOUR through IMPS.
Thereafter, said Rama asked Bijaya Kumar Nath through
telegram with ID, i.e., sttps://tme/chander515 or @
Chander515 to get him registered in the above said website
www.smsmvip.com and induced him to deposit Rs. 100/-
so as to get hefty returns on the investment amount, being
induced Mr. Nath transferred Rs. 1,000/- from the account
of one of his friend bearing account No. 11297557630 but
as there was no return as promised by Mr. Rama through
Telegram. Thereafter there is a reasonable suspicion arises
 in the mind of the Bijaya Kumar Nath that he has been
trapped by online fraud. Further, there are lots of accounts
are maintained in Bineince of different States and the
fraudsters sent videos in Youtube and Facebook for
advertisement linking leading bollywood actors like
Akshaya Kumar and Manish Poul and the said App is run
in the name of JOIN TRADE FINANCIAL GROWTH and
suggested and directed to the depositors to download from
Google Play Store in different online games like LUCKY
WHEEL, TEEN PATI GET, JHANDI MUNDA KING, SUPER
JACKPOT, SLOTS META, GOLDEN STAR REAL, MVP
TRADE and TRADE W GAME APPLICATIONS, and after
paying game and investing minimum amount, the
depositors in return get hefty amount, ultimately, one
Guanhua Wang a Chine National is create the website and
different online games to create a believe that to get hefty
returns, in this manner crores of rupees are siphoned to
China in the illegal ponzi schemes. Hence, the F.I.R. 4. Learned Senior Advocate submits that two of the
Directors, those who are the co-accused with the petitioner,
have already been granted anticipatory bail by this Court.
The present petitioner is the authorized signatory of the
company. 5. On the last date of hearing, a specific query was put
to the learned counsel for the OPID as to whether further
custody of the petitioner is required or not. 6. Since the charge sheet has already been filed,
learned counsel for the OPID submits that further custody
of the petitioner is no more required. 7. The petitioner is in custody since 14.08.2023 and
 since the charge sheet has already been filed, I am of the
considered view that the petitioner is entitled to bail.
Hence, the petitioner be released on bail by the learned
Court in seisin over the matter in the aforesaid case on
such terms and conditions as it would deem just and
proper, further subject to following additional conditions : Violation of any of the bail conditions shall entail
cancellation of bail granted to the petitioner. The
prosecution is given liberty to move an application for
 cancellation of bail before the Court below, if the petitioner
 violates any conditions of the bail granted to him. 9. The BLAPL is accordingly disposed of. (S.S. Mishra)
 Judge

 amit Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: AMIT KUMAR MOHANTY Reason: Authentication Location: HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK Date: 10-Sep-2024 18:22:41