1. The present case was registered on the basis of a written 

 complaint dated 25.5.1989 made to the SHO, DRP, New Delhi 

 Railway Station by the complainant i.e. Sh. Bhimsen Sharma. In 

 his written complaint complainant had alleged that on 22.5.1989 

 during the checking of 154/DN train by their Squad under the 

 supervision of Sh. KC Vashisth, two BPT bearing no. 081724 and 

 081725 were collected for verification as they appeared to be fake. 

 It is further alleged that on inquiry the said BPT were found to be 

 forged and thereafter a watch was kept on the important trains to 

 find out the fraud. It is further alleged that on 25.5.1989 he 

 alongwith Sh. PK Sikka, Sh. Mohan Singh conducted check on 

 922/DN train and on perusal of chart they found three parties of 

 four adults were booked in coach S4 on BPT no. 082847, 082848 

 and 082849 on berth number 9 to 12, 25 to 28 and 17 to 20. It is 

 further alleged that out of the abovesaid three parties one party 

 consisted of four passengers namely Sh. Lamroodin, Sh. 445/1989­NDRS page2/
 Muhideen, Sh. Anul Haq and Sh. Mohammad and out of said four 

 persons only two persons i.e. Sh. Muhiddin and Sh. Anul Haq had 

 arrived there and on inquiry they told that their ticket was brought 

 by some other person who had arranged the tickets and reservation 

 for them. It is further alleged that till the departure of the train no 

 such person came there. It is further alleged that the said BPT 

 were also found to be fake on verification. 2. On this complaint, the present case was registered and 

 investigation was taken up. During the course of investigation, 

 BPT book having serial no. 082801 to 082850 and BPT book 

 having serial no. 081701 to 08178 were taken into possession 

 alongwith reservation chart dated 25.5.1989 of S4 coach in which 

 the name of the persons travelling, seat number and destination 

 were mentioned. Thereafter, at the instance of Mohd Habib on 

 25.5.1989 one Sh. Jai Shankar Pandey was contacted and on his 

 pointing out accused Abdul Hakim was apprehended who made 

 disclosure statement in which he disclosed involvement of co­ 

 accused persons and some articles such as one envelope, one date 

 machine, 3 pen, diary, railway tickets having stamp of Railways, 

445/1989­NDRS page3/
 cash Rs. 2089/­ were recovered from him. During further 

 investigation, on 29.5.1989 one DTC (Duty Train Cash) Book for 

 the period from 11.3.19889 to 20.3.1989 was also taken into 

 possession in which the entries regarding BPT no. 081724 and 

 081725 were made. 3. After completion of investigation, chargesheet was filed. 

 Accused persons were summoned and provision of section 207 cr.p.c. were complied with. 4. The particulars of offence were explained to accused 

 persons in Hindi language and a charge for offences punishable 

 u/s. 120B/420/468/ 471 IPC was framed against all three accused 

 persons to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trail and 

 accordingly the case was fixed for prosecution evidence. 

 Thereafter, accused KK Gautam was discharged by order dated 

 15.5.1999 passed by Ld Sessions Court and trial continued qua 

 remaining two accused persons. 5. During the course of trial prosecution examined thirteen 

 witnesses in support of its case. 6. PW1 is Ms. Usha Dhar­ Sr. Section Officer, Railways; 445/1989­NDRS page4/
 PW2 is Sh. Pawan Sikka­ Dy Superintendent; PW3 is Sh. Bajranj 

 Lal Rao from Railways; PW4 is Sh. Rajender Prasad from 

 Railways; PW5 is Sh. Uttam Singh from Railways; PW6 is 

 Suresh Chand; PW7 is Sh. Ajit Singh from Railways; PW8 is SI 

 Abhimanyu; PW9 is Insp Om Prakash i.e. the investigating 

 officer; PW10 is ASI Mahavir Singh i.e. the duty officer; PW11 

 is Retd SI Shyam Singh; PW12 is Dr. SC Mittal i.e. Principal 

 Scientific Officer and PW13 is Sh. Umrao Singh i.e. Retired Chief 

 Booking Supervisor. 7. Thereafter, prosecution evidence was closed on 

 11.4.2008 and statement of accused persons was recorded on 

 29.4.2008 wherein accused persons denied the evidence that has 

 come on record against them. They choose not to lead evidence in 

 their defence. 8. Thereafter, vide order dated 27.6.08 an application u/s. 

 311 cr.p.c. moved by Ld APP for state was allowed by my Ld 

 Predecessor and PW2, PW4, PW5 and the complainant were 

 ordered to be summoned and only one opportunity was granted to 

 prosecution to produce them. However, prosecution failed to 

445/1989­NDRS page5/
 secure their presence in court inspite of several opportunities and 

 prosecution evidence was again closed vide order dated 25.5.09. 

 Statement of accused persons was not recorded again as no 

 evidence was led by prosecution after their statement was recorded 

 in court on 29.4.2008 and matter was adjourned for final 

 arguments. 9. I have heard Ld APP for state as well as Ld counsel for 

 accused persons and have also carefully gone through the file. 10. PW1 Ms. Usha Dhar deposed that she do not not 

 remember anything about the present case. PW1 was cross 

 examined by Ld APP for state. 11. In her cross examination by Ld APP for state, PW1 

 stated that she do not remember if the police had inquired from her 

 on 28.9.1989. She further stated that she do not remember whether 

 she had handed over two tickets bearing no. 081724 and 081725 to 

 the police. She admitted her signature on seizure memo Ex. 

 PW1/A. She admitted that Ex. PW1/A was prepared before she 

 had put her signature on it. She also admitted that she had handed 

 over two tickets. She further stated that she had forgotten the facts 

445/1989­NDRS page6/
 due to lapse of time. 12. In her cross examination on behalf of accused persons 

 she stated that she do not know who had prepared the seizure 

 memo Ex. PW1/A. She admitted that permission is taken before 

 handing over the documents. She further stated that she do not 

 remember the name of the official who had given her the 

 permission. 13. PW2 Sh. Pawan Sikka deposed that he was posted as 

 Anti Fraud Inspector in Baroda House, Railways and his team had 

 caught one fake blank paper ticket and they started checking the 

 train going towards Bihar side. He further stated that on 25.5.1989 

 he alongwith Sh. Bhim Sain Sharma (T) Anti Fraud, Sh. Mohan 

 Singh (CTI) had checked the reservation chart of Train No. 922 

 (old number) and found that in the said chart dated 25.5.1989 one 

 BPT number is identical with the fake BPT seized by them on 

 22.5.89. He further stated that thereafter they made inquires from 

 the persons on the said reserved seat and asked them to show their 

 tickets. One of them informed them that their tickets are being 

 brought by someone else. He further stated that they waited for the 

445/1989­NDRS page7/
 ticket but none came there with the tickets. He further stated that 

 the tickets must have not been brought as he(PW2) was seen 

 inquiring from the passengers. He further stated that after the train 

 had left they made inquries from the passengers and one of the 

 passenger told them that the person who had got the reservation for 

 them resides in the Jhuggies behind MAMC. He further stated that 

 thereafter he alongwith the said passenger and the police went to 

 the Jhuggies behind MAMC where one Pandey met them who told 

 that Abdul Hakim who lives in Uttam Nagar had got the 

 reservation done and thereafter they went to Uttam Nagar and from 

 the house of accused Abdul Hakim some BPTs, PNR tickets, Date 

 Machine, Supplementary ticket etc were recovered and the same 

 were seized vide seizure memo which is Ex. PW2/A. PW2 

 correctly identified the accused Abdul Hakim present in court. He 

 further stated that the complaint given to the police is Ex. PW2/B. 

 He further stated that accused was interrogated in his presence and 

 accused had disclosed that he used to get reservation for the 

 passengers. He further stated that accused had also disclosed that 

 the BPT of abovesaid tickets was given to him by KK Gautam, 

445/1989­NDRS page8/
 Booking Clerk. He further stated that the fake BPT which was 

 caught on 22.5.1989 was produced before Sh. Bhim Sain and the 

 same was seized vide seizure memo which is Ex. PW2/D. Further 

 examination in chief of this witness was deferred at the request of 

 Ld APP for state for want of case property. 14. PW3 Sh. Bajrang Lal deposed regarding issuance of the 

 certificate which is Ex. PW3/A regarding the duty of accused 

 Narender on 24.4.1989 and 20.5.1989. He further stated that 

 during the duty hours the Reservation Form remained in the 

 custody of accused. He further stated that after doing the 

 reservation the CRS form is kept alongwith it. 15. In his cross examination on behalf of accused Abdul 

 Hakim, PW3 stated that no investigation of present case was done 

 in his presence. He further stated that whatever he had stated to the 

 police was on the basis of his personal knowledge. He further 

 stated that he had given the information to the police on the basis 

 of record. He further stated that all the information was in the CRS 

 diary and the same is deposited in the CRS Record. He further 

 stated that he do not know whether said record is now in existence 

445/1989­NDRS page9/
 or not. He further stated that the copy of certificate is deposited 

 with the CRS Record. He further stated that Mark A to C are only 

 the photocopies of BPT and the original must be with the Chief 

 Booking Supervisor. He further stated that he cannot tell on seeing 

 Mark A to C that they are genuine or not. He further stated that he 

 had not seen the PNR Number and the PNR Number is given by 

 the Booking Clerk on the application form. He further stated that 

 without the PNR Number he cannot tell from which counter the 

 tickets in question were issued. He further stated that neither PNR 

 Number nor Counter Number is mentioned on the BPT and the 

 Booking Clerk cannot be identified from it. He further stated that 

 the name of Booking Clerk and time of issuance of Ticket could 

 not be found out only the basis of the BPT. He denied the 

 suggestion that he is deposing falsely. 16. PW4 Sh. Rajender Prasad deposed that in the year 1989 

 he was posted as Booking Clerk in the Ticket Store and was posted 

 there at that time since 3­4 years back. He further stated that he 

 used to supply all types of tickets including the BPT to the 

 Booking Clerk at counter. He further stated that he cannot tell 

445/1989­NDRS page10/
 specifically which BPT Book was issued to which Clerk. He 

 further stated that he can tell after seeing the record. The relevant 

 record was not produced by the witness and the witness was cross 

 examined by Ld APP for state. 17. In his cross examination by Ld APP for state, PW4 stated 

 that he do not remember whether his statement was recorded by the 

 police or not. PW4 stated that he do not remember the facts 

 mentioned in the statement mark A even after the statement mark 

 A was read over to him. He further stated that the stock register as 

 mentioned in the statement is not kept under his possession. He 

 denied the suggestion that he is deposing falsely and has been won 

 over by accused persons. 18. In his cross examination on behalf of accused persons, 

 PW4 stated that he do not have any personal knowledge about 

 present case and he do not know accused Narinder and Abdul 

 Hakim. 19. PW5 Sh. Uttam Singh deposed that in the year 1989 he 

 was posted at Record Keeper at New Delhi Railway Station and 

 Ex. PW5/A bears his signature at point A. He further stated that he 

445/1989­NDRS page11/
 do not remember which document was produced by him before the 

 police. Further examination of chief of this witness was deferred 

 for want of original record and thereafter PW5 was not examined. 20. PW6 Sh. Suresh Chand deposed that he is running shop 

 of tea and his house is in front of the house of accused Abdul 

 Hakim. He further stated that he do not know anything else about 

 this case. This witness was cross examined by Ld APP for state. 21. In his cross examination by Ld APP for state, PW6 

 admitted that accused Abdul Hakim is lives at Uttam Nagar. He 

 denied the suggestion that BPT bearing no. 0082 and some 

 Railway documents were recovered from accused. He also denied 

 that Date Machine was also recovered from accused. He denied 

 the suggestion that he is deposing falsely at the instance of 

 accused. 22. In his cross examination on behalf of accused, PW6 

 stated that no investigation was carried out in his presence. He 

 further stated that he had not read any document regarding this 

 case. 23. PW7 Sh. Ajit Singh deposed that on 13.3.1989 he was 

445/1989­NDRS page12/
 posted at New Delhi Railway Station as Booking Clerk in counter 

 no. 104 and on that day after completion of his duty he had handed 

 over the Charge to Gautam Kumar, Booking Clerk alongwith BPT 

 Books. He further stated that BPT Books are used for preparing 

 the Ticket. He further stated that BPT receipt bearing No. 087124, 

 087125 and 082848 are issued from the BPT Books. 24. PW8 SI Abhimanyu testified that on 25.5.1989 he was 

 posted at police station New Delhi Railway Station and on that day 

 the case was registered against the accused persons and accused 

 Abdul Hakim was arrested in his presence by the IO SI Om 

 Prakash and his personal search was also conducted. He further 

 stated that on 26.5.1989 accused made disclosure statement which 

 is Ex. PW8/B. He further stated that on the same day accused had 

 made another disclosure which is Ex. PW2/C that he had collected 

 the BPT from Booking Clerk KK Gautam and used to cheat the 

 Railway. He further stated that on that day Sh. Joga Singh had 

 produced two BPT Books and the same were seized vide seizure 

 memo which is Ex. PW8/C. He further stated that on 28.5.1989 

 accused Abdul Hakim has made another disclosure vide Ex. 445/1989­NDRS page13/
 PW8/D that KK Gautam used to forge the tickets and then used to 

 hand them over to him. He further stated that on 29.5.1989 Sh. 

 Uttam Singh, Record Keeper, New Delhi Railway Station produced 

 the DTC Book for the period 11.3.1989 to 20.3.1989. He further 

 stated that said book contained total 98 pages out of which last two 

 pages were in torn condition. He further stated that page no. 72 of 

 said book contained entries regarding the amount received against 

 BPT No. 81705 to 81770. He further stated that endorsement was 

 also made to the effect that an amount of Rs. 44/­ each was 

 received for BPT No. 81724 and 81725. He further stated that 

 Record Keeper had also produced one Remittance 3rd Book of 

 counter no. 104 for the period 11.3.1989 to 20.3.1989 having 96 

 pages and its last two pages were also torn. He further stated that 

 at page no. 52 cash of Rs. 3021/­ was mentioned against BPT No. 

 81705 to 81770. He further stated that IO seized both the Books 

 vide seizure memo which is Ex. PW5/A. He further stated that on 

 same day Sh. SK Chadda­ Reservation Supervisor of New Delhi 

 Railway Station produced the reservation chart of 154 DN for 

 22.5.1989 of coach no S7 running into two pages which included 

445/1989­NDRS page14/
 reservation of 6 passenger at serial no. 24,32,33,34,35,36 against 

 BPT No. 81724 and reservation of 6 passenger at serial no. 

 37,38,40,41,42,43 against BPT No. 81725 and the same was also 

 seized vide seizure memo which is Ex. PW8/E. He further stated 

 that on the same day Sh. Bajrang Lal Rao had produced certificate 

 showing the duty of accused Narender Singh and the same was 

 seized vide seizure memo which is Ex. PW8/F and accused 

 Narender was arrested and his personal search was conducted. He 

 further stated that on 31.5.1989 specimen handwriting of accused 

 Abdul Hakim and KK Gautam were taken vide memos Ex. PW8/H 

 and Ex. PW8/I. He identified both the books i.e. DTC Book and 

 Remittance 3rd Book and the same is Ex. P1 and Ex. P2 

 respectively. 25. PW9 Insp. Om Prakash testified that on 25.5.1989 he 

 was posted at police station New Delhi Railway station and on that 

 day the investigation of the case was handed over to him alongwith 

 some documents which he had seized vide seizure memo Ex. 

 PW2/D. He further stated that during investigation accused Abdul 

 Hakim was arrested and house search of accused was done and 

445/1989­NDRS page15/
 some articles were recovered and the same were seized vide 

 seizure memo Ex. PW2/A. He further stated that disclosure 

 statement of accused Abdul Hakim was also recorded and other 

 accused persons namely Narender and Krishan Kumar Gautam 

 were also arrested. He further stated that some relevant document 

 were also taken into possession from the Railway Officials and 

 thereafter he took the specimen signatures of accused Abdul 

 Hakim and Kishan Kumar Gautam and sent them to the FSL. He 

 further stated that thereafter he was transferred and he handed over 

 the file to MHCr. 26. In his cross examination, PW9 stated that he do not 

 remember whether he took the specimen handwriting of accused 

 Narender or not. He further stated that he do not know the result of 

 FSL. He further stated that he do not know the duties of accused 

 Narender. He further stated that he do not remember who was 

 preparing the BPT at the relevant time. He further stated that public 

 persons were called inside the house of accused Abdul Hakim at 

 time of search of house. He denied the suggestion that the 

 disclosure statement of accused was recorded under force. He 

445/1989­NDRS page16/
 denied the suggestion that accused persons have been falsely 

 implicated in present case. 27. PW10 ASI Mahavir Singh testified that on 25.5.1989 he 

 was posted as duty officer at police station New Delhi Railway 

 Station and on that day he had recorded the FIR and proved the 

 FIR which is Ex. PW10/A. 28. PW11 Retd SI Shyam Singh testified that further 

 investigation of present case was marked to him and since 

 investigation was already completed, he had only collected the 

 FSL result and prepared the challan. 29. PW12 Dr. SC Mittal from FSL had proved his report 

 which is Ex. PW12/A. 30. PW13 Sh. Umrao Singh deposed that he do not know 

 anything about the case. This witness was cross examined by Ld 

 APP for state. 31. In his cross examination by Ld APP for state, PW13 

 admitted that the DTC Book contained the sale of tickets, BPT 

 amount and class. He further stated that he do not remember 

 whether the page no. 91 to 94 were given to IO or not. 445/1989­NDRS page17/ 32. In his cross examination on behalf of accused persons, 

 PW13 stated that maintaining of duty roster was not his duty at 

 relevant date. He further stated that he do not remember whether 

 any inquiry was made from him by the police. 33. Accused persons in their statement recorded u/s. 281 / 313 cr.p.c. denied the evidence that has come on record against them. 

 Accused persons stated that they are innocent and had been falsely 

 implicated in present case. They choose not to lead evidence in 

 their defence. 34. In the present case as many as 22 witnesses were cited by 

 the prosecution and out of them only thirteen were produced and 

 examined by the prosecution in support of its case. It is pertinent 

 to mention that charge in the present case was framed against the 

 accused persons on 24.10.1996 and prosecution evidence was 

 closed on 11.4.2008. Thereafter, Ld APP for the state had moved 

 an application for recalling of PW2, PW4, PW5 and the 

 complainant. The said application was allowed and five more 

 opportunities were given to the prosecution to produce the said 

 witnesses but prosecution failed to produce them in court. The 

445/1989­NDRS page18/
 remaining witnesses are either not traceable or they had expired. 

 Summons qua them were sent repeatedly but the same failed to 

 secure the presence of said witnesses in court. The prosecution 

 evidence in present case continued for about 14 years but 

 prosecution could examine only 13 witnesses in support of its case. 35. A careful perusal of testimony of PW1 shows that she 

 had stated that she do not remember anything about the present 

 case and she was cross examined by Ld APP for the State and even 

 in her cross examination by ld APP for state she had not stated 

 anything inculpatory qua the accused persons and had merely 

 deposed about handing over of certain documents to the IO during 

 the investigation of the present case. 36. PW2 in his testimony recorded in court supported the 

 prosecution case and narrated the prosecution story in detail. PW2 

 also identified the accused correctly in court however, the 

 examination in chief of this witness was deferred at the request of 

 Ld APP for state as well as for want of case property. However, 

 this witness never appeared in court again and his examination in 

 chief could not be completed and this witness was never tendered 

445/1989­NDRS page19/
 for cross examination by the accused persons. This witness was 

 summoned several times for conclusion of his evidence but the 

 presence of this witness in court could not be secured. As the 

 examination in chief of this witness was never completed and he 

 was never tendered for cross examination, therefore, his testimony 

 cannot be read in evidence as it is settled proposition of law that if 

 a witness is not tendered for cross examination then his testimony 

 cannot be read in evidence. Thus, testimony of PW2 is also of no 

 use for prosecution. 37. The examination in chief of PW3 is very short one and in 

 his examination in chief PW3 had not stated anything inculpatory 

 qua the accused persons and PW3 merely proved a certificate 

 regarding duty of accused Narender on 24.4.1989 and 20.5.1989. 

 In his cross examination PW3 stated that no investigation of the 

 present case was done in his presence. In his cross examination 

 PW3 also stated that he cannot tell on seeing Mark A to C that 

 whether they are genuine or not. PW3 could not answer most of 

 the questions put to him by Ld defence counsel and when the 

 testimony of PW3 is appreciated as a whole the same do not point 

445/1989­NDRS page20/
 towards the complicity of the accused persons in the present case. 

 Hence, the testimony of PW3 also is hardly inculpatory qua the 

 accused persons. 38. PW4 also had not stated anything inculpatory qua the 

 accused persons and in his examination in chief he stated that he 

 cannot tell specifically which BPT Book was issued to which clerk. 

 He further stated that he can tell the same after seeing the record 

 but the said record was never produced in court. The statement of 

 PW4 recorded u/s. 161 cr.p.c. by the police was read over to him 

 by Ld APP for the state but he stated that he do not remember the 

 said facts. Thus, testimony of PW4 is of no use from prosecution 

 point of view and the same do not lead to the conclusion that the 

 accused persons were involved in the commission of the alleged 

 offence. 39. PW5 in his statement recorded in court also expressed 

 his inability to recollect the facts of the present case and stated that 

 he do not remember which document was produced by him before 

 the police. The further examination in chief of this witness was 

 deferred for want of original record. However, this witness never 

445/1989­NDRS page21/
 appeared in court again and his examination in chief could not be 

 completed and this witness was never tendered for cross 

 examination by the accused persons. This witness was summoned 

 several times for conclusion of his evidence but the presence of 

 this witness in court could not be secured. As the examination in 

 chief of this witness was never completed and he was never 

 tendered for cross examination, therefore, his testimony cannot be 

 read in evidence as it is settled proposition of law that if a witness 

 is not tendered for cross examination then his testimony cannot be 

 read in evidence. Thus, testimony of PW5 is also of no use for 

 prosecution. 40. PW6 in his testimony recorded in court also had not 

 supported the prosecution case. As per prosecution story some 

 incriminating articles were recovered from the house of accused 

 Abdul Hakim in the presence of PW6. However, PW6 denied the 

 prosecution version and stated that he do not know anything about 

 the present case except that the house of accused Abdul Hakim is 

 in front of his house. This witness was cross examined by Ld APP 

 for state and even in his cross examination PW6 denied that some 

445/1989­NDRS page22/
 BPTs, Date Machine etc. were recovered in his presence from the 

 house of accused Abdul Hakim. Thus, testimony of PW6 is also of 

 no use from the prosecution point of view. 41. PW7 also had not stated anything against the accused 

 persons and he merely stated in his testimony recorded in court 

 that after completion of his duty he had handed over Charge to 

 Gautam Kumar Booking Clerk alongwith BPT Books. It is 

 pertinent to mention here that accused KK Gautam was discharged 

 by the Ld Sessions Court vide order dated 15.5.1999 and the State 

 had not challenged the said order and the said order had attained 

 finality. Thus, testimony of PW7 is also not inculpatory qua the 

 accused persons. 42. PW8 SI Abhimanyu had accompanied the IO during the 

 initial investigation of the present case and he narrated in detail 

 about the investigation of the present case which was carried out in 

 his presence. PW8 specifically stated that accused Abdul Hakim 

 was arrested in his presence by the IO and accused Abdul Hakim 

 had made disclosure statement on the basis of which other accused 

 persons were also arrested. PW8 also stated that during the 

445/1989­NDRS page23/
 investigation IO collected various documents from Railway 

 Officials and the same were also seized by the IO vide separate 

 memos. PW8 also proved those memos which were prepared 

 during the investigation of the present case. PW8 also stated that 

 specimen handwriting of accused Abdul Hakim and KK Gautam 

 were also taken and the same were sent for FSL. This witness was 

 not cross examined by or on behalf of accused persons and 

 testimony of this witness has remained unchallanged and 

 unrebutted. However, PW8 alongwith IO conducted the 

 investigation of the present case lateron and no part of the offence 

 was committed in his presence. They had acted upon the 

 disclosure statement made by accused Abdul Hakim and during 

 investigation seized various documents to show the complicity of 

 accused persons in the alleged offence. As far as recovery of 

 incriminating articles from the possession or at the pointing out of 

 accused Abdul Hakim is concerned, the same were made in the 

 presence of one public witness also but the said public witness had 

 not supported the prosecution version. 43. PW9 is the first investigating officer of the present case 

445/1989­NDRS page24/
 and he also deposed regarding investigation carried out by him. 

 PW9 stated that he seized various documents vide seizure memo 

 and he arrested accused Abdul Hakim and on the basis of his 

 disclosure statement he made certain recoveries from his house. 

 PW9 also deposed that on the basis of disclosure statement of 

 accused Abdul Hakim, accused Narender and accused KK Gautam 

 were arrested in present case and he obtained specimen signatures 

 of accused Abdul Hakim and KK Gautam and sent the same to 

 FSL. In his cross examination on behalf of accused persons, PW9 

 stated that he do not remember whether specimen handwriting of 

 accused Narender was taken or not. He further stated that he do 

 not know about the FSL result. He further stated that he do not 

 remember who was preparing the BPT at the relevant time. He 

 also denied the suggestion that accused persons have been falsely 

 implicated in the present case. 44. PW10 merely proved the FIR of the present case as he 

 was working as duty officer on the relevant date and time. 45. PW11 is the second IO of the present case and he merely 

 stated that the further investigation of the present case was marked 

445/1989­NDRS page25/
 to him and since the investigation was already completed, he had 

 collected the FSL result, prepared the challan and filed the same in 

 court. 46. PW12 Dr. SC Mittal from FSL had proved his report i.e. 

 Ex. PW12/A. A careful perusal of his report i.e. Ex. PW12/A 

 shows that most of his expert opinion is with respect to 

 handwriting of accused KK Gautam. At the cost of repetition, it is 

 again reiterated that accused KK Gautam was discharged by the Ld 

 Sessions Court after duly taking into account the report i.e. Ex. 

 PW12/A prepared by PW12. A perusal of Ex. PW12/A shows that 

 the same do not contain any inculpatory material qua accused 

 Abdul Hakim and do not prove the complicity of accused persons 

 in the alleged offence. It is pertinent to mention that specimen 

 handwriting of accused Narender was not taken by IO during the 

 investigation of the present case and the same was never sent to 

 FSL. Thus, the FSL report is also hardly inculpatory qua the 

 accused persons. 47. PW13 in his examination in chief also stated that he do 

 not know anything about the present case. This witness was also 

445/1989­NDRS page26/
 cross examined by Ld APP for state and even in his cross 

 examination PW13 had not stated anything inculpatroy qua the 

 accused persons and his testimony is also of no use from 

 prosecution point of view. 48. Thus, in nutshell it can be said that except PW8 and PW9 

 i.e. the police officials no other witness had stated anything 

 inculpatory qua the accused persons. PW8 and PW9 have 

 supported the prosecution story and deposed regarding the 

 investigation of the present case. PW8 and PW9 have stated that 

 they had arrested accused Abdul Hakim and at his instance 

 recovered certain incriminatory articles from his house in the 

 presence of public witness i.e. PW6. However, PW6 has not 

 supported the prosecution version and PW6 in his testimony 

 recorded in court stated that nothing was recovered from the 

 possession of accused Abdul Hakim in his presence. Infact PW6 in 

 his cross examination on behalf of accused persons stated that no 

 investigation was carried out in his presence and he had not read 

 any document regarding this case. The testimony of PW6 falsifies 

 the testimony of PW8 and PW9 and has made the testimony of 

445/1989­NDRS page27/
 PW8 and PW9 unreliable. Infact, other witnesses have also not 

 supported the version of PW8 and PW9. 49. I am of the considered view that testimony of PW8 and 

 PW9 is not sufficient to prove the guilt of the accused persons in 

 the present case and more particularly in view of the fact that the 

 independent public witnesses have not supported their version. 50. Keeping in view the facts and circumstances, and the 

 discussion made hereinabove, I am of the considered view that 

 prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused persons 

 beyond reasonable doubt. Most of the witnesses produced by the 

 prosecution in support of its case have not supported the 

 prosecution case. Several witnesses as mentioned in the list of 

 witnesses are not traceable and therefore their testimony could not 

 be recorded in court. The circumstantial evidence is also not 

 sufficient to prove the guilt of the accused persons as the same is 

 hardly inculpatory qua the accused persons. Hence, both accused 

 persons are hereby acquitted in the present case.