State of Madhya Pradesh. They are heard. Perused the case diary / challan papers.

 This is the first application under Section 439 of Criminal Procedure

Code, 1973, as he / she is implicated in connection with Crime

No.576/2021 registered at Police Station Pachor, District Rajgarh (MP) for

offence punishable under Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. The

applicant is in custody since 16/12/2021. Allegation against the applicant is one of robbery of a truck.

 Counsel for the applicant has submitted that the applicant has been

falsely implicated in the present case as the true facts of the case are that the

brother of the applicant Jitendra Singh happens to be the owner of the truck

bearing registration No.RJ-09-JC 3018. Copy of its registration certificate is

also placed on record. The aforesaid vehicle was given to one Vinod S/o

Ramchandra Balai on rent, however, as the said Vinod did not pay the

insurance premium, tax as also the instalments of the finance company, the

brother of the applicant asked him to return the vehicle. In pursuant to that,

Vinod asked the applicant's brother to collect the vehicle from Pachore and

hence, the applicant's brother sent the applicant to collect the aforesaid 2 M.Cr.C. No.9338/2022 vehicle and at that time, Vinod had also asked the applicant's brother to pay

some amount to the driver of the vehicle, therefore, he also transferred

Rs.1,000/- through phonepe app and Rs.1,000/- as cash to him on the same

day. However, immediately after taking possession of the vehicle, a false

case was registered against the applicant of robbery of the vehicle by the

driver of the said vehicle. It is further submitted that a complaint in this

regard has also been sent to the IG Police, Bhopal on 21/12/2021 but till

date, no action has been taken in this regard. Counsel has further submitted that the applicant has been falsely

implicated in conspiracy with certain police personnel of police station

Pachore and is lodged in jail since 16/12/2021. It is submitted that the

charge sheet has already been filed and no purpose would be served to keep

the applicant in jail. Hence, it is submitted that the bail application be

allowed and he be released on bail. Counsel for the respondent / State, on the other hand has opposed the

prayer and it is submitted that no case for grant of bail is made out. Having considered the rival submissions, perusal of the case diary as

also the documents filed by the applicant, in the facts and circumstances of

the case, this Court finds force with the contentions raised by the counsel

for the applicant and the applicant is in jail since 16/12/2021, charge sheet

has already been filed and fact that the final conclusion of the trial is likely

to take sufficient long time, in the considered opinion of this Court, the

applicant's application deserves to be allowed. Accordingly, without commenting on the merits of the case, the

application filed by the applicant is allowed. The applicant is directed to be

released on bail upon furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.25,000/-

(rupees twenty five thousand) with one solvent surety of the like amount

to the satisfaction of the trial Court for his/her regular appearance before the

trial Court during trial with a condition that he / she shall remain present

before the court concerned during trial and shall also abide by the

conditions enumerated under Section 437 (3) Criminal Procedure Code,

1973. It is also observed that if the applicant is found in any of the criminal

activities, after his / her release on bail, then the present bail order shall

stand cancelled without further reference to this Court; and the State /

prosecution will be free to arrest the accused in the present case also. This order shall be effective till the end of the trial, however, in case

of bail jump, it shall become ineffective. It is also submitted by the learned counsel for the applicant that the

said Vinod has also obtained the vehicle on supurdgi by filing an insurance

policy which was obtained by him through fraud by presenting a cheque and

obtaining a cover note and as the cheque has also been dishonored, the

insurance company has informed the brother of the applicant regarding such

dishonor of cheque. Thus, the brother of the applicant is also deprived of his

vehicle on account of aforesaid fraud played by the said Vinod. 4 M.Cr.C. No.9338/2022 Looking to the fact that serious allegations have been levelled against

 the police personnel who in conspiracy with the other accused persons have

 registered a case against the applicant, it is directed to the Inspector General

 of Police/Commissioner of Police, Bhopal to submit a detailed report in this

 regard before this Court on the next date of hearing. Let the matter be listed on 16/03/2022. Certified copy as per rules. (Subodh Abhyankar)
 Judge
 krjoshi Digitally signed by KHEMRAJ JOSHI Date: 2022.02.24 18:11:07 +05'30'