1. This is an action for infringement of trade mark and passing-off.

 The interim application seeks to restrain the Defendants from using

 the impugned mark (s) "ASTRO DUNIYA" and/or any trade name/mark

 comprising "Astro Dunia" or deceptively similar thereto. 2. The Plaintiff is an individual trading as sole proprietary concern

 in the name and style of M/s. Astro Dunia providing astrological and

 spiritual services since the year 2005 including inter alia consultancy

 and advisory services based on astrological principles under the mark

 "AstroDunia" . It is stated that the mark is coined and arbitrary mark

 Sairaj 1 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

combining "Astro" taken from English language and "Dunia" taken from

Hindi language. It is stated that the Plaintiff's mark include the words

Astro Dunia and also the label and device mark "Astro Dunia" 3. The Plaintiff is the registered owner of domain name

www.astrodunia.com of which "Astro Dunia" forms an essential feature

since August, 2005. The Plaintiff's website is operated under the

domain name and the website is freely accessible from locations across

India and globally. The mark is used by the Plaintiff on various

platforms including numerous TV shows which have been aired on

Bhaskar TV, Sadhna and Dabang News and advertisement published in

print media etc. The statement of sales as well as copy of specimen

invoices have been set out at Exhibit-J of the Plaint and pleaded in

Paragraph No. 8.6 of the Plaint. It is stated that several documents

were lost to floods in 2015 and not readily available with the Plaintiff

Sairaj 2 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

at the time of filing of suit. 4. It is submitted that the Plaintiff's "Astro Dunia" mark is

registered in class 45 with user claim of August, 2005 and the objection

raised under Section 9(1)(b) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 [for short,

"the T.M. Act"] was replied by the Plaintiff asserting that the mark is an

arbitrary mark and distinctive combination of words from English and

Hindi language in addition to logo of star and none of three

components i.e Astro, Dunia, device of star are sought to be

individually monopolised. On 6th March, 2023, the registration was

allowed with disclaimer that the registration of the trade mark shall

give no right to the exclusive use of all descriptive matters and that

labels shall be used together. The Plaintiff has applied separately for

copyright registration in respect of the artistic work being the

device/label mark of the Plaintiff's "Astro Dunia" mark. The Plaintiff

has also applied on 30th July, 2024 for registration of the Plaintiff's

mark "Astro Dunia" as word mark, which is pending. 5. Insofar as Defendants are concerned, it is stated that the

Defendant No. 1 which is content distribution platform that offers

inter alia Pay TV and Over the Top Services (OTT) had announced

launch of services identical to Plaintiff's services under "Astro Duniya" 6. The Defendant's Affidavit in reply dated 4th February, 2025

contends that the Plaintiff's mark is descriptive and as the registration

is granted with disclaimer, the Plaintiff is not entitled to exclusive use

in respect of individual components of the mark. The Defendant first

used the descriptive expression "Astro Duniya" in combination with its

house mark/trade name TATA SKY in December, 2020 and later with

TATA PLAY. Prior to adopting the expression "TATA PLAY Astro Duniya" 7. There is no case of passing-off made out as Plaintiff has failed to

establish any reputation or goodwill, misrepresentation or any damage

to the alleged reputation and goodwill of the Plaintiff or even the

exclusive right on the use of expression "Astro Dunia". The Plaintiff's

claim is impeded by delay, laches and acquiescence as the Plaintiff was

aware of Defendant No. 1's use of the mark since 2021. 8. The Affidavit-in-rejoinder reiterates the stand taken in the Plaint.

The Affidavit in sur rejoinder dated 24 th February, 2025 contends that

Sairaj 4 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

the Plaintiff's marks comprises of placement of two common words

meaning astrology and work and is not an invented mark. The Plaintiff

is rendering investment advisory services which are prohibited in law

without procuring license and no actionable goodwill attaches itself to

such activities. The Defendant's services are available on demand on

specific portal requiring subscription and the channel is an

entertainment/eduction channel and does not render one to one

service to the consumers or financial advisory in terms of

markets/stocks. The Plaintiff's invoices reveal miniscule sales

insufficient to indicate extensive use of the mark. 9. The sur sur rejoinder affidavit dated 24 th April, 2025 deny that

astrology related services rendered by the Plaintiff since the year 2005

are illegal and any such allegation relating to SEBI regulations is

required to be tested in appropriate forum. 10. There is second Affidavit in reply dated 4th October, 2025 filed by

the Defendant No 1 which re-iterates the earlier stand. It sets out the

registrations obtained of TATA marks and the foray in the DTH services.

It contends that its channel is strictly passive television channel and

does not offer any personal consultations. Initially the subscribers were

provided an option to avail of phone call consultations which has been

discontinued in or around October, 2024. 11. The Affidavit in rejoinder dated 5th November, 2025 to the

second affidavit in reply contends that in guise of filing composite

reply, the Defendant No 1 has attempted to improvise its case and has

canvassed defences which are in teeth of its admissions in earlier

replies. It is contended that the there is no instance of any third party

using the combination of the words Astro and Duniya apart from

Plaintiff and Defendant. The Plaintiff is not claiming any exclusivity

over "astro" per se but over the distinctive combination mark. It is

stated that notwithstanding the disclaimer , the words "Astro Dunia" 12. Mr. Khandekar, learned counsel appearing for Plaintiff has taken

this Court through the registrations of the label/device mark of the

Plaintiff and would contend that the words"Astro Dunia" is the

prominent and essential feature of the Plaintiff's registered mark. He

points out the registration granted with effect from 7 th January, 2021

Sairaj 6 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

with user claim since 10th August, 2005 in class 45. He submits that by

reason of registration of Plaintiff's mark, the same is presumed to be

distinctive. He submits that the essential feature of Plaintiff's mark is

"ASTRO DUNIA" is not a dictionary term or existing phrase in any

language and is combination of English prefix "Astro" and Hindi word

"Dunia". He submits that Defendant No. 1 has neither pleaded nor

shown even a single instance outside the Plaintiff and Defendant No.

1's use of this combination as phrase of general use to demonstrate

that the mark is descriptive. He would further submit that the word

"Astro Dunia" at the highest is distinctive or suggestive at its lowest.

He submits that in 2005, the Plaintiff has registered the domain name

containing the names "ASTRO DUNIA" over which the Plaintiff's

services are promoted and points out the media/online presence , the

advertisements and annual newsletters. 13. He would submit that the Defendants in January, 2021, started

the use of the impugned mark "ASTRO DUNIYA" in respect of identical

services, which has been admitted by Defendants in response to the

Plaintiff's e-mail of 8th January, 2021 and reply to cease and desist

notice. He submits that it is improbable that though Defendant No. 1

conducted a search of Trade Marks Registry, the Defendant No. 1 did

not conduct a simple online search which would show the Plaintiff's

mark. He submits that Defendant No. 1 has not filed any rectification

Sairaj 7 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

application in respect of the Plaintiff's registration and has adopted its

mark at its own peril. 14. He would further submit that the disclaimer in the registration

prohibits the Plaintiff from asserting its right on three individual

components of the Plaintiff's mark i.e. Astro, Dunia, device of star. He

submits that the combination of "ASTRO DUNIA" does not fit within the

meaning of descriptive matter in respect of which the condition would

operate. He submits that the disclaimers in any event do not travel to

the market and the Court must consider the whole of Plaintiff's mark

including the disclaimed material while deciding the question of

infringement. He would further submit that notwithstanding that the

mark is label/composite mark with the disclaimer as the essential

feature is "ASTRO DUNIA", the same is liable to be protected from

infringement. He submits that the contention that mere addition of

house mark "TATA" obviates confusion is unacceptable and does not

eliminate the likelihood of false representation as to the connection

between the Plaintiff and Defendants, where none exists. 15. He would further submit that the Defendant is using "ASTRO

DUNIYA" as trade mark and the Defendant is not entitled to any

defence of bona fide descriptiveness under Section 30 and/or Section

35 of Trade Marks Act, 1999. He submits that the Defendant's own

material shows that it has used music to designate its music channel,

Sairaj 8 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

comedy to designate its comedy channels and instead of using the

word astrology to describe its astrological channel has used the

impugned mark "ASTRO DUNIYA". 16. He would further submit that Defendants have belatedly

contended that the services are dissimilar falling within entertainment

channel, which is contrary to the plea taken in the pre suit

correspondence exchanged between the parties. He submits that it is

settled that the trade mark classifications are only administrative

guidelines and what is required to be tested is the nature of the rival

services. 17. He would further submit that plea taken in sur-rejoinder that

there is no actionable goodwill is unacceptable since the Plaintiff is

offering astrological services for last 20 years without any complaint.

He would further submit that the defense of illegality in running the

Plaintiff's business owing to SEBI violations proceeds on incorrect

premise that the Plaintiff's entire business pertains to financial or

market related astrological predictions. He submits that the Plaintiff is

offering varied astrological and spiritual services since 2005 and the

SEBI regulations relied upon by the Defendants have come into force in

2013. He submits in any event, the violation of SEBI regulations cannot

be agitated in present forum. 18. He submits that an artificial distinction is now sought to be

drawn by Defendant No. 1 to limit the Plaintiff's right to personalized

services and there is enough material on record to demonstrate that

Defendant No. 1 is offering personalized/ individual centric services

under the impugned mark. He submits that it is only after the last

hearing that Defendant No. 1 has revised the descriptions and written

contents on its website. He would further submit that the contention

that the Defendant's service requires a subscription is contrary to

record which shows that Defendant No. 1's services are

advertised/marketed and offered through public platforms including

Youtube, Google searches, Defendant No. 1's website, etc. He submits

that even creation of initial interest by using similar mark at the point

of advertisement or display prior to any actual use amounts to

infringement. He submits that pertinently it is not the Defendant's

case that there is any difference between the Plaintiff's consumer and

Defendant's subscribers. 19. He would further submit that once it is shown that Defendant

adopted the Plaintiff's mark dishonestly and with notice of Plaintiff's

mark, passing-off is proved. He submits that it is not necessary for the

sales to be in several crores of rupees and there is no requirement to

show actual deceit or ill-intention or fraud. He would further submit

that considering the reach of Defendant No. 1's platform, magnitude

Sairaj 10 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

of injury to the Plaintiff is of rapid loss of distinctiveness of the

Plaintiff's mark as the source indicator of the Plaintiff's services and

the loss of goodwill stands established. He submits that the defense

of delay/balance of convenience/equity/acquiescence is without

merits. In support, he relies upon the following decisions : Ltd20

 Schering Corporation vs. Klitch Co. (Pharma) Pvt.
 Ltd.21

 Indchmie Health Specialites Pvt. Ltd. vs. Naxpar
 Labs Pvt. Ltd.22

10 2015 SCC OnLine Bom 6807. 11 2020 SCC OnLine Bom 2382. 12 1959 SCC OnLine SC 16. 13 (2023) 4 SCC 2009. 14 2007 SCC OnLine Bom 147. 15 (2001) 5 SCC 73. 16 2016 SCC OnLine Bom 9481. 17 (2022) 5 SCC 1. 18 (2021) SCC OnLine Bom 2233. 19 2023 SCC OnLine Del 2734. 20 2002 SCC OnLine Bom 1138. 21 1990 SCC OnLine Bom 425. 22 2002(2) Mh.L.J. 513. Century Traders vs. Roshal Lal Duggar and Co.24

 Lupin Limited vs. Eris Lifesciences25

 Empire Spices and Foods Ltd. vs. Sanjay
 Deshmukh26

 Emami Limited vs. Hindustan Unilever Ltd.27

 Pidlite Industries Ltd. vs. S. M. Associates and
 Others28

 Serum Institute of India Ltd. vs. Green Signal Bio
 Pharmaceuticals29

 Jagdish Gopal Kamath vs. Lime and Chilli
 Hospitality30

 Prince Pipes and Fittings vs. Shree Sai Plast Pvt.
 Ltd.31 20. Per contra, Mr. Kadam, learned counsel for Defendant No. 1

would submit that the Defendant No. 1 is operator of TATA Play DTH

services which broadcasts through various proprietary and other

television channels. He submits that in or around December, 2020, the

Defendant No. 1 launched "TATA PLAY Astro Duniya" television channel

exclusively available on TATA Play DTH/TV service for subscription fee

23 2022 SCC OnLine Del 1351. 24 ILR 1977 (ii Delhi 711). 25 2015 SCC OnLine Bom 6807. 26 Interim Application No. 2119 of 2025, decided on 30th June, 2025.
27 2024 SCC OnLine Cal 3579. 28 2003 SCC OnLine Bom 143. 29 2011 SCC OnLine Bom 696. 30 2015 SCC OnLine Bom 531. 31 2024 SCC OnLine Bom 3743. of Rs. 60/- per month. He submits that channel telecasts scheduled

programs discussing astrology and is available for viewing exclusively

only on Defendant No. 1's "Tata Play" service. He submits that

Defendant does not offer one to one consultations or personal

appointments and the same passive content is beamed to the masses.

He submits that initially subscribers were provided an option to avail

phone call consultations by calling particular number, which reference

services has been discontinued in or around October, 2024. 21. He submits that it is only on 8 th January, 2021, that the Plaintiff

applied for trade mark registration of the device mark of "Astro

Duniya" in class 45 which was granted registration with disclaimer. He

submits that the Plaintiff cannot split up the mark and is bound by the

condition to use the mark as a whole. He points out to the Plaintiff's

response to the examination report that the distinctiveness of its

marks was in combination of the words alongwith the logo of the star.

He submits that the Plaintiff is yet to receive the registration of the

word mark "ASTRO DUNIA". 22. He would submit that the online presence of the Plaintiff

indicates that it offers financial services and is dedicated to help clients

about making informed decisions about their investment. He submits

that the pith and substance of the Plaintiff's services is rendition of

personalized investment services to his client by following astrological

Sairaj 14 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

principles. 23. He would further point out that the specimen invoices annexed

to the plaint lack the hallmark of invoices issued in the ordinary course

in the absence of any service/tax registration, GST registration and that

the invoices are not even signed and are issued to individuals mainly

addressed by name without any addresses. He submits that there is no

document to show receipt of payment against the invoices and there

are no I.T. returns or assessment orders to corroborate these invoices.

He submits that the sale certificates have not been certified by the

Chartered Accountant but are self-certified. He submits that the

pleaded case in paragraph No. 18 of the plaint is that the Defendant's

mark is used in relation to the identical services which is lacking in

material particularization and is insufficient in law to fasten the liability

under Section 29(2) to establish similarity in services. 24. He submits that no case for relief is made under Section 29(1) of

Trade Marks Act, 1999 since the services are not the same. He submits

that the Plaintiff's mark is registered in class 45 and the explanatory

note to class 45 asserts that it includes mainly legally and security

services as well as certain personal and social services rendered by

others to meet the need of individuals. He submits that the common

feature of the services classified in class 45 is rendition of personal

services tailored to specific needs of individuals whereas the

Sairaj 15 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

Defendant's services provides entertainment/education to consumers

and is relatable to classification in class 38 and class 41 and it is in this

class that the Defendant No. 1 has registered the "TATA Play" trade

mark. 25. Drawing attention of this Court to provision of Section 29(2) of

the Trade Marks Act, 1999, he submits that similarity of service is to be

examined from business and commercial point of view taking into

account the user and use of services, the physical natures of services,

the trade channels and the extent to which the services are in

competition with one another. He submits that these facts ought to

have been pleaded in the Plaint and there is no factual foundation led

in the Plaint. 26. He submits that the Plaintiff's latest website shows that there is

no personalized services rendered and rendition of services even

otherwise through television medium is inherently not personalized.

He submits that Defendant No. 1 has online presence on Youtube and

Google and test is to assess whether services are sold through the

same channels. 27. He submits that the marks are not identical and there is no

deceptive similarity. He submits that the Plaintiff's claim to exclusivity

to the words "Astro Dunia" must be examined in backdrop of Section

17 of the Act read with Section 28(1) and (2). He submits that having

Sairaj 16 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

accepted the distinctiveness in the Plaintiff's mark in its combination of

the word along with logo or star, the Plaintiff cannot now claim

monopoly over the words. 28. He submits that the combination of "Astro" and "Dunia' is

Hinglish which is a colloquial manner of speaking in this country. He

submits that the mere use of the mark does not give it a secondary

meaning and sales and advertisement expenses are not the sole

criteria. The Plaintiff is required to show the market survey, etc. as the

law imposes such burden since the protection on such descriptive

marks leads to reduction of ordinary expressions to describe and/or

inform customers about the products. 29. He submits that in the present case, the rival marks are device

marks and the test is similar to copyright by examining the aspect of

depiction and stylization, lettering and placement of indices. He

submits that the prefix "TATA PLAY" enjoys trade mark registration and

is well-known trade mark and there can be no absolute proposition

that the use of the house mark does not dispel confusion. He submits

that the claim of the Plaintiff that the mark is a well-known trade mark

does not satisfy the requirement of Section 29(4) . 30. He submits that the argument of initial interest confusion also

fails since the services are different and are available through different

trade channels. Insofar as the aspect of passing-off is concerned, he

Sairaj 17 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

submits that Plaintiff has not proved goodwill and pith and substance

of Plaintiff's business is in relation to investment advisory services and

even assuming it has goodwill, the same is not actionable as there is

violation of SEBI regulations. He submits that there are no

commonality of activities which is the relevant consideration. He would

submit that the Plaintiff's alleged sales are only to tune of Rs. 1.07

crores for over 20 years and Rs. 1.4 crores for over 20 years which are

also uncertified. He submits that there is no misrepresentation in the

present case. He submits that the balance of convenience is in favor of

Defendant No. 1 as Defendant No. 1 started its channel in December,

2020 and the Plaintiff has sent its first email to Defendant in January,

2021 and suit has been filed in January, 2025 by which time, the

Defendant No. 1 has built its business for over five years and expended

substantial money which constitutes acquiescence. In support, he relies

upon the following decisions : 31. In rejoinder, Mr. Khandekar would submit that the Defendant's

defense of dissimilar services is an afterthought. He submits that the

belated case of discontinuation of personalized services since October,

2024 is false and unbelievable and in fact, constitutes an admission

that the rival services were clearly alike. He submits that pertinently

the Defendant's current website shows a drop down response that

their astrologers are certified professionals which ensures that viewers

receive high quality astrological services while seeking personalized

"kundli" reading which has been suppressed by the Defendant. 32. He submits that defense of prosecution history does not apply

in the present case as Section 9(1)(b) cited in examination report

applies not only to the words, but also to indications. He would submit

that the Defendant has admitted to using the mark for advertisement

and for promoting the Defendant's services even outside its DTH

46 2020 SCC OnLine Bom 816. 47 No. 2 Vol. LXIII. Report of Patent, Design and Trade Mark Classes dated 19th June, 1946.
48 2025 SCC OnLine SC 1701. 49 2023 SCC OnLine Bo, 1825. ecosystem and specific instances are actually shown in the present

case. He submits that Defendant has limited its argument only to the

action for passing-off and the argument of no actionable goodwill is

entirely irrelevant to the action for infringement.

REASONS & ANALYSIS : shall not be registered: 37. The registration is thus granted with specific disclaimer that the

labels shall be used together meaning that the words alongwith the

logo of star makes the mark distinctive and not the individual

components and neither the combination of individual components.

The Plaintiff reads the disclaimer to mean that prohibition is from

asserting any right in three individual components viz "Astro", "Dunia"

and device of star and not against the claim for unique combination of

words Astro Dunia. The disclaimer is required to be read in the

background of the objection and the response to the objection and

Sairaj 23 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

when so read, it is prima facie evident that the distinctiveness claimed

was in entire combination of the features and not in the combination

of the words ASTRO DUNIA. The words "Astro Dunia" is combination

of the English word "Astro" and Hindi word "Dunia". Assuming that the

mark "Astro Dunia" is coined by the Plaintiff, the mark is being used in

respect of astrology services rendered by the Plaintiff. The words

"Astro" and "Dunia" when taken separately are completely descriptive

as the word "Astro" is clipped version of the English word 'astrology'

and the word "Dunia" is a Hindi word which means 'world'. Taken

together, the mark means the world of astrology and combination of

the words results in the word "ASTRO DUNIA" being completely

descriptive as relating to the world of astrology which are services

rendered by the Plaintiff. The combination of the clipped version of the

English word with the Hindi word prima facie does not make it

inherently distinctive in our country where there is tendency of

blending Hindi and English and spoken as such. In fact, the Cambridge

Dictionary defines Hinglish as a mixture of Hindi and English, a special

type of English used by the speakers of Hindi. Section 29(9) of Trade

Marks Act, 1999 provides for infringement by spoken use of distinctive

elements of a registered trade mark. The Plaintiff's mark being

descriptive, there are no distinctive elements for application of the

provisions of Section 29(9) . The decisions of Encore Electronics Ltd vs

Sairaj 24 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc Anchor Electronics (supra) and Renissance Hotel vs B. Vijaya Sai (supra) are distinguishable as in the present case, the Plaintiff's mark is

non distinctive. 38. The disclaimer was imposed as the mark consisted of descriptive

matter and the only entitlement is to use of the composite mark as a

whole. In this context, if Section 17 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 is

seen, clause (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 17 prohibits the exclusive

right in any matter which is common to the trade or is otherwise of a

non-distinctive character. The disclaimer which has been imposed by

the Registrar is in the context of Section 17(2)(b) by holding the mark

to be descriptive and of non-distinctive character. The Plaintiff claims

infringement by use of the words "Astro Dunia" which words stand

disclaimed. 39. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Registrar of Trade Marks

vs Ashok Chandra Rakhit50 held that the real purpose of disclaimer is

to define the rights of the proprietor under the registration so as to

minimize, even if it cannot wholly eliminate, the possibility of

extravagant and unauthorised claims being made on score of

registration of trade mark. The Hon'ble Apex Court noted that where a

distinctive label is registered as a whole, such registration cannot

possibly give any exclusive statutory right to the proprietor of trade

50 (1955) 1 SCC 655. mark to the use of particular word or name contained therein, apart

from the mark as a whole. 40. In the present case, the disclaimer is as regards the descriptive

matter i.e. ASTRO DUNIA. The Plaintiff cannot predicate its case of

infringement on the part of mark which stands disclaimed by

contending that the disclaimed part has been copied by the Defendant.

The disclaimed portion cannot form the basis for infringement. In

event the Plaintiff's case of infringement would have been premised

on infringement of entire label mark and not exclusively of the

disclaimed portion, while assessing the deceptive similarity, the marks

would have to be compared as a whole including the disclaimed part. In Pidilite Industries Vs S.M. Associates (supra), it was the Defendant's

contention that the disclaimed word SEAL should be ignored while

considering the aspect of infringement. The Plaintiff therein did not

allege infringement by reason of copying of the disclaimed part SEAL

but the entire mark M-SEAL vs S M-SEAL . In the case of Serum

Institute of India Ltd vs Green Signal Bio Pharma Pvt Ltd (supra), the

disclaimed portion was "BCG" in Plaintiff's mark ONCO BCG. The

infringement was claimed by use of "BCG ONCO" and not based

exclusively on the disclaimed portion. In that factual scenario, the

Court rightly compared the marks as whole including the disclaimed

portion. The decision of Lupin Limited vs Eris Lifescience Pvt Ltd

Sairaj 26 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

(supra), Sun Pharma Laboratories Ltd vs The Madras Pharmaceuticals

& Anr (supra) and Empire Spices and Foods Limited vs Sanjay

Deshmukh ( supra) and Prince Pipes and Fittings Ltd vs Shree Sai Plast

Pvt Ltd (supra) did not deal with the case of registration being granted

subject to disclaimer. In the decision of Jagdish Gopal Kamath & Ors vs

Lime and Chilli Hospitality (supra) , the disclaimer was on the exclusive

right to use the word "Madras". The claim for infringement was not

based on the disclaimed word but the entirety of the mark which is the

distinguishable feature. The decision of Anheuser Busch Inbev India

Ltd vs Jagpin Brewerise Limited (supra) turned on facts of that case by

considering the descriptive material contained in respect of the rival

marks therein. 41. In the case of Aegon Life Insurance Company Ltd. vs. Aviva Life

Insurance Company India Ltd. (supra), this Court noted the test for

descriptive mark and reproduced in paragraph no. 28 the decision in

the case of Bharat Enterprises (India) vs. C. Lala Gopi Industrial

Enterprises & Others51 as under: 42. Applying the said principles to the Plaintiff's registered label

mark, the words "Astro Dunia" with the device of star above the words

is purely descriptive of the services offered to the public i.e. astrology.

Even assuming arguendo that it is a coined word, the mark is not

arbitrary and unconnected to the services offered by the Plaintiff. The

Plaintiff's invoices itself uses the mark "ASTRO DUNIA" followed by the

words "Your World of Astrology" which indicates the descriptive nature

of the trade mark. In the Affidavit in reply, the Defendant has placed

on record screen shots of various websites using the words Astro

World and Astro ki duniya, which shows prima facie the common use of

term. There cannot be any two views that the use of the words

astrology or its clipped version combined with the word depicting the

word "world" either in english or hindi would be used commonly for

describing astrology services in India such as World of Astro, Astrology

ki Duniya, Astro World, Astro Dunia etc. The fact that the invoices of

the year 2005-2006 which are placed on record makes a reference to

the words "Astro Dunia" and describes it as a world of astrology is a

clear indicator that the same was used in a descriptive sense. Prima

Sairaj 28 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

facie I do not find that the Plaintiff's mark "Astro Dunia" to be anything

but descriptive. 43. For purpose of comparison, the rival marks are reproduced

hereinbelow: Plaintiff's mark Defendant's mark 44. For purpose of assessing infringement, the anti dissection rule

requires that the marks must be compared as a whole. Prima facie

comparison of the whole mark shows the dissimilarity in the rival

marks. The Plaintiff's mark is a composite label comprising of the

words AstroDunia alongwith the device of star above the words. The

Defendant's mark is Astro Duniya which is used alongwith the

Defendant's house mark TATA PLAY. The manner of depiction of the

rival marks is different. In the Defendant's mark, the words Astro

Duniya are placed one below the other in contrast to the manner of

depiction of words AstroDunia in the Plaintiff's mark in a horizontal

manner. The Defendant's house mark is a renowned industry house

which is prima facie sufficient to distinguish the rival marks. The

addition of the house mark obviates the possibility of confusion

Sairaj 29 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

particularly, considering the house mark "TATA Play" which is depicted

prominently and especially when the access to the Defendant's mark is

by a registered subscriber, who is well informed that it is the

Defendant who is rendering the services. The contention that the

essential feature of the Plaintiff's mark being Astro Dunia is required

to be statutorily protected will run foul of the disclaimer imposed

while granting registration. The proposition of comparison of the

essential feature will not apply when the words stand disclaimed. If

the said contention is accepted, then the disclaimer would be rendered

meaningless. The principle that disclaimers do not travel to the market

would not apply to present facts as the services rendered are dissimilar

and not available through same trade channels. 45. The allegation that the Defendant is using the words "Astro

Duniya" even without the house mark TATA PLAY to substantiate

aspect of similarity is misplaced as the extract from the Defendant's

website at Exhibit "F" to the rejoinder makes specific reference to TATA

PLAY ASTRO DUNIYA and the reference to only Astro Duniya in the

website is in descriptive sense. As far as the decisions in Meher

Distilleries Pvt Ltd vs SG World wide InV & Anr (supra) and Jaguar

Company Pvt Ltd vs Villeory Boch AG & Anr (supra) are concerned,

there can be no debate that there is no absolute proposition in law

that the use of the trade mark with the housename would not amount

Sairaj 30 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

to infringement and will obviate likelihood of confusion. Every case has

to be tested on its own individual facts. The contention of the Plaintiff

that the consumers will be put into a state of wonderment as to

whether the Defendant has acquired Plaintiff's brand and business to

the Plaintiff's detriment overlooks the primary difference of the

Defendant being a DTH service provider. 46. The Plaintiff claims to be prior adopter and user of the mark

since the year 2005. The application of the Plaintiff for registration of

the device mark was filed on 7th January, 2021 with user claim of 10 th

August, 2005. It is specifically pleaded in paragraph 1 of the Plaint as

under : 47. The pleadings indicate claim of user since the year 2005 not only

of the words "Astro Dunia" but also of the label/device mark, which is

prima facie not substantiated from the material on record. In so far as

the domain name is concerned, the use of the word "Astro Dunia' as

part of domain name and website content will have to be read in the

Sairaj 31 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

background of the disclaimer placed while registering the device mark.

As far as the website archives are concerned, the trade mark used by

the Plaintiff is the word "Astro Dunia" with tagline "Our world of

Astrology" in the year 2011-2012. Perusal of the website extracts

would indicate that along with the words "Astro Dunia" and tagline

"Our world of Astrology", the device used with the mark is as under :- 48. At Page 558 of the Plaint, the word "ASTRODUNIA" is used

during the years 2006-2007 along with the following device: 49. Prima facie, the material on record indicates use of the mark

"Astro Dunia" along with logos distinct from the device mark which has

been registered. There is one annual letter of 7 th January, 2016 in

which the registered device mark is used and thereafter the use is

shown from the year 2020. Apart from solitary use in 2016, there is no

material on record to show the use of the labels/logos since the year

2005 as claimed. The Plaintiff has placed on record about 30 volumes

of documents consisting of website extracts, newsletters and annual

letters stated to be published by the Plaintiff. Volume 2 and Volume 3

i.e. from pages 106 to 571 contains an introduction which is found in

several pages such as pages 281, 331, 338,342 which reads as under: 50. The introduction prima facie indicates that the incorporation in

the year 2005 was of a private limited company and Astrodunia was

officially registered as the private limited company. There is no

pleading in the plaint explaining the connection between the Plaintiff,

who is an individual, the mark Astro Dunia and the private limited

company MAA ASTRODUNIYA PRIVATE LIMITED. From the introduction

Sairaj 33 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

in the news letter, it appears that the firm of Astro Dunia was

registered in the year 2005 as MAA ASTRODUNIYA PVT LTD. Similarly

Volume 21 to 25 i.e. from pages 4813 to 6139, which are daily/weekly

news letter (market time report) mentions that all rights are reserved

by Maa AstroDuniya Pvt Ltd. At Page 6861 of the annual letter for the

year 2013-2015, the name of the company Maa Astro Duniya Pvt Ltd is

mentioned along with the name of the present Plaintiff. The plaint

pleads that the Plaintiff is trading as sole proprietary concern in name

and style of M/s Astro Dunia and that of prior user of the mark since

the year 2005, which appears to be prima facie doubtful as the

volumes of documents produced on record reflects the name of the

private limited company for which there is no explanation. Despite

production of volumes of newsletters claimed to be published by the

Plaintiff, there is not a single averment as to the number of subscribers

of these newsletters to demonstrate the enormity of the goodwill and

reputation of the Plaintiff. 51. Insofar as invoices are concerned, the invoices either makes a

reference to the name "Maa Astro Duniya Pvt. Ltd." or the words "Astro

Dunia" and not to the device mark. This is apart from the fact that

prima facie the invoices are unacceptable as the invoices contains only

the name without any details of the consumers such as address, time

and duration of visit. There is no service tax details printed on the

Sairaj 34 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

invoice and the invoices do not bear the signature of the Plaintiff and

does not use the device mark. The statement of sales is a self-attested

statement by the Plaintiff signed as proprietor for ASTRO DUNIA and

shows the business done by Maa Astro Duniya Private Limited under

the Plaintiff's "Astro Dunia" mark and not of the Plaintiff who is one

Rajeev Agarwal trading in the name and style of M/s. Astro Dunia. 52. Further, some of the advertisement invoices which are placed on

record shows the vendor as Maa Astro Dunia Limited and not the name

of the present Plaintiff. Prima facie, at this stage, it is difficult to

accept, based on the material on record that since the year 2005, the

Plaintiff was using the entire label/device of the Astro Dunia in respect

of which registration was obtained or even the mark Astro Dunia. As

the material on record does not demonstrate the use of the registered

mark by the Plaintiff since the year 2005 , without evidence being led,

it is difficult to accept the prior use of the registered mark by the

Plaintiff since the year 2005. 53. The Plaintiff having chosen to adopt a trade mark which is

descriptive of services offered has to discharge the burden of proving

that the registered trade mark has acquired secondary meaning which

means distinctiveness on account of long usage and promotion of such

an extent that the customers would associate the trade mark only with

the Plaintiff. It is required to be proved by producing cogent material

Sairaj 35 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

the manner in which the public perceives the mark and that the primary

meaning of the word is forgotten and when the word "Astro Dunia" is

used, it is only Plaintiff's services which comes in the mind of general

public. The burden is thus greater on the Plaintiff when the mark is

held to be descriptive. In the present case, as discussed above, the

material placed on record relates to the different manner of use of the

trade mark "Astro Dunia" along with different devices and the

Plaintiff's registered trade mark which is the composite label is not

shown to have been acquired secondary meaning. 54. It is also pertinent to note that it is only recently that Plaintiff

has applied for registration of the word mark "Astro Dunia" which

implies that the Plaintiff was aware of the restrictions which were

placed on its exclusive right of user by reason of disclaimer imposed on

registration and thought it fit to apply for registration of the word

mark. 55. The Defendant is a DTH service provider and uses the mark

ASTRO DUNIYA alongwith its house mark of TATA PLAY. The

Defendant's adoption of the words Astro Duniya in respect of its

astrology services in descriptive sense is prima facie bonafide. The use

of the housemark is with the intent to identify the source of the

broadcasted content as emanating from the Defendant. In reply to the

cease and desist notice, the Defendant has contended that the mark

Sairaj 36 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

was adopted by the Defendant as it aptly describes astrology platform

services and that it has taken a search in trade mark registry. Prima

facie the defence of adoption of the word ASTRO DUNIYA for

describing an astrology channel is possible acceptable explanation.

The search taken in the trade mark registry cannot singularly

constitute the driving factor to hold that the mark is used in trade mark

sense. 56. Coming to the rival services, the pleading in paragraph 17 of the

plaint is that the Plaintiff and the Defendant admittedly deal in

identically/similar services. In paragraph 18 of the plaint, it is pleaded

that the Defendant's impugned mark is used in relation to services

identical and/or similar and/or allied and/or cognate to those of which

the Plaintiff's registered trade mark is used. The Plaintiff's pleaded

case swings between identical services to similar services to allied or

cognate services attempting to fit its case in one or other category of

infringement. The Plaintiff is expected to come with specific pleadings

which is absent in present case. The material produced on record by

the Plaintiff in the form of website archives comes with the heading as

" Predictions - Stock Market Commodity Market and the webpage is

substantially devoted to the predictions on the stock market. The

volumes of newsletters produced on record also pertains to stock

market and commodity market predictions. The use of the label mark

Sairaj 37 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

even if accepted on 7th January, 2016 at Page No. 577 comes with a

tagline "We predict stocks, commodities, forex". The linkedin page at

page no. 637 of the Plaint describes the services as financial services

and that the Plaintiff is dedicated to helping the clients make informed

decision about their investment. The facebook page introduces the

Plaintiff as a remarkable name in field of financial astrology. The

specimen invoices produced by Plaintiff to show consultation and

horoscope analysis are inadequate and not backed by sufficient

supporting material to come to a prima facie finding that Plaintiff

rendered astrology services on life predictions apart from financial

market predictions. The promotional material placed on record prima

facie projects the Plaintiff as financial market advisor based on

astrology. The newsletters on record are replete with the stock market

and financial market predictions. 57. On the other hand, the Defendant is operator of Tata Play DTH

services which broadcasts various television channels relating to music,

cinema, sports entertainment, and one of the channels is astrology

services. It advertises its services as subscriber services and astrology

linked life predictions. For purpose of availing these services, the

consumer is required to subscribe to TATA Play DTH Services, have a set

top box installed and thereafter, pay monthly subscription fees for the

purpose of viewing the channel. The same astrology content is beamed

Sairaj 38 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

to the masses as opposed to the one to one consultation offered by

the Plaintiff. Further the Defendant is not shown to render astrology

predictions in financial markets, which is the core service rendered by

the Plaintiff. I am unable to read the email chain between the parties

as an admission that the rival services are identical by mere use of the

words "astrology services" and in any event, the similarity in the

services is required to be considered by applying the well settled tests. 58. In the case of Balkrishna Hatecheries vs. Nandos International

Limited and Another (supra), this Court noted the leading case of

British Sugar Plc v. James Robertson and Sons Ltd. 52 identifying the

essential factors while considering whether the goods were of the

same description as under : 59. Applying the tests to the rival services, in my view, there is no

similarity for the following reasons: In that case both the parties were conducting sales through identical

trade channels i.e. through e-commerce websites. In that facts, the

Delhi High Court opined that an customer with average intelligence

and imperfect recollection who comes across the respondent's

products on any of the e-commerce platforms used by both parties or

through other interactive websites may wonder whether there is

connection between the two marks and confusion would arise for brief

period of time. 62. Dealing with the case of passing off, the assessment of similarity

of the rival marks would precede the classic trinity test of (a) goodwill

and reputation (b) misrepresentation and (c) damage. As held above,

Sairaj 42 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

this Court is of the view that the marks are dissimilar. The case for

passing off is therefore terminated at the threshold. However, this

Court has gone ahead and considered whether the trinity test stand

satisfied. In Saga Lifesciences Limited vs Aristo Pharmaceuticals Ltd (supra), it was held that it is not necessary that sales have to be in

crores of rupees. In Century Traders vs Roshan Lal Duggar (supra),

the Court in the context of passing off action has opined that it is not

necessary that the goods should have acquired a reputation for quality

under that mark. Accepting the said proposition, there must be

material to demonstrate actionable goodwill and reputation, which is

required to be protected from being damaged by reason of the use of

the impugned mark. The sales turnover relied upon by the Plaintiff is

doubtful as the sales turnover is self-attested certificate by the

Plaintiff and certifies the sales generated by Maa Astro Duniya Pvt Ltd

in respect of Astro Dunia mark. The nexus between the company and

the mark has not been explained and the company is not the Plaintiff

but the proprietorship firm. 63. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Cadila Healthcare Limited

(supra) has laid down following broad factors to be considered in an

action for passing off: 64. The Hon'ble Apex Court has held that weightage is to be given to

each of the aforesaid factors depending upon the facts of each case. In

in the present case, both marks are label marks and as already held

above, there is no resemblance in the manner in which the label marks

are used. The services of the Defendants are available through

subscription model which is not so in the case of the Plaintiff's services.

The common field of activity is a relevant consideration in an action for

passing off as the same would determine association between the

Plaintiff's services and that of the Defendant. Considering that the

Plaintiff's substantial consumer base are related to financial markets, it

is unlikely that the Plaintiff's consumer base would be confused when

Sairaj 44 of 45
 astro finalised (2).doc

confronted with the Defendant's services which is a common content

meant for the masses. Insofar as the misrepresentation is concerned,

there is no material on record to come to prima facie conclusion of any

attempt of misrepresentation or that Defendants have projected its

services as something different from what it offers. It is necessary for

prima facie case to be made out of false representation even if

unintended which would lead the public to believe that the goods

offered by the Defendants are that of the Plaintiff. The manner in

which the Defendant's services are made available to the general

public rules out possibility of misrepresentation. 65. In light of above, there is no prima facie case made out of

infringement of trade mark or passing off for grant of interim

injunction. Interim Application stands dismissed.