1. This petition has been filed by way of Public Interest Litigation

under Art 226 of the Constitution highlighting the Stamp Scam that came to

light in Tehsil Complex at Hoshiarpur, Punjab during the period 2006-09

involving loss of Rs.76.6 lacs to the State Exchequer. The loss is said to

have been occasioned by registration of sale deeds by withholding requisite

stamp duty payable on such sale deeds. This has been occasioned with the

active participation of certain Tehsildars of the District while acting as Sub

Registrars and various Deed Writers, Stamp Vendors etc. The petitioner

claims to be an elected District President of the Democratic Bhartiya Samaj

Party, Hoshiarpur who has been working for the cause of society since 1998 CWP No.12539 of 2010 -2- by highlighting corruption in public offices. The prayer in this PIL is for

disclosing action taken on the report of the Additional Deputy

Commissioner, Hoshiarpur indicting certain officials and private persons

involved in the Scam and for directions to CBI or any other independent

agency to investigate what is termed as the Stamp Scam. 2. The facts are that on 26.10.2005 the Government of Punjab in the

Department of Revenue and Rehabilitation (Stamp and Registration Branch)

issued executive instructions on the subject of deposit of stamp duty at the

counters of the State Bank of India (for short SBI). These instructions have

been issued in amplification of an amendment carried out in Section 2 of the

Indian Stamp Act, 1989 (for short 'the Act') by the Finance (No.2) Act,

2004 (No.23 of 2004) published in the Gazette of India on 10.09.2004. This

amendment extends the meaning of the word "Stamp" and reads thus:- 3. This amendment enables the State Government to select mode of

payment of stamp duty by means of any mark, seal or endorsement by any

agency or person duly authorized by the State Government for collection of

duty chargeable under the Act. Through instructions dated 26.10.2005 (P-1)

the Punjab Government decided that stamp duty should be deposited in cash

at the counters of the SBI at District Headquarters where such branches of

the SBI exist. It was further decided that where stamp duty amounting to

Rs.20,000/- or more is involved in a single transaction it shall be deposited

by the vendor/vendors, as the case may be, at the branches of SBI where CWP No.12539 of 2010 -3- Government receipts are accepted. The Sub Registrars/Joint Sub Registrars /

Tehsildars were restrained from accepting stamp duty for amounts of

Rs.20,000/- or more through stamps/stamp papers from the date from which

the SBI permits or accepts such deposits. In order to give effect to the

substantive decision, the instructions laid down the procedure to be

observed at the counters of SBI for deposit of stamp duty. Para 4 (vi)

makes it mandatory for the Registering Officer to act in the following

manner:- "4 (vi) The Registering Officer shall verify the deposit of
 stamp duty in State Bank of India as shown in the
 receipt presented to him by the depositor from branch of
 the state bank of India through internet, before releasing
 the instrument to the executant/executer of the
 instrument. The modem for the purpose of internet shall
 be purchased by the Registering Officer through the
 Deputy Commissioner out of existing budget
 provisions." (underlined for emphasis) 4. The above process involves modern internet/online banking

ensuring instant compliance of the law. The liability to buy the modem for

purpose of the internet connection rested on the Registering Officer through

the Deputy Commissioner out of existing budget provisions. A public

obligation and duty is placed on the RO. 5. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties at considerable

length and examined the materials placed on record. 6. Mr Sapan Dhir, learned counsel for the petitioner submits that as

the procedure laid down in Para 4 (vi) of the instructions had not been

followed and put in immediate practice by the Registering CWP No.12539 of 2010 -4- Officer/Tehsildars, the Stamp Scam could have been avoided. He submits

that when a thing is required to be done in a particular manner it shoud be

done in that manner or not at all. This principle would apply with greater

vigour in cases involving fiscal matters where non compliance with

procedure laid down can easily point to corruption or corrupt practice.

What is imputed is that the system put in place was not operated for

extraneous considerations to line private pockets. The petitioner states in

the petition that this huge Stamp Scam involved three Tehsildars/Naib

Tehsildars named in the petition, two Registration Clerks, two officers from

the Department of Treasury, Assistant Treasurer and the Treasury Officer

and various officers/officials from the offices of the Auditor General,

Punjab and Inspector General, Registration Punjab, Jalandhar in connivance

with the officers/officials of the SBI, Hoshiarpur. The criminal law against

the accused was set in motion by one Shiv Walia, a businessman who

lodged an FIR No.96 dated 04.08.2009 under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 IPC at Police Station, City Hoshiarpur against the stamp vendor namely

Vickey Malhotra. The SDM, Hoshiarpur reported the matter to the Deputy

Commissioner, Hoshiarpur who nominated the Additional Deputy

Commissioner to conduct a detailed enquiry and submit a report. In the

enquiry report dated 7.09.2009 that followed a large number of persons

were found guilty in the Stamp Scam. The three Tehsildars/Niab Tehsildars

were suspended on 24.09.2009 but five days thereafter on 29.09.2009, they

were reinstated in service pending enquiry. That despite having been

indicted, no action was taken against the guilty and accordingly the

petitioner states that he preferred an application dated 19.04.2010 under the CWP No.12539 of 2010 -5- Right to Information Act, 2005 requesting action taken against guilty

persons involved in the scam. That is how the petitioner came into

possession of the enquiry report as well as noting sheets of the Revenue

Department, Punjab through PIO letter 26.04.2010 (P-5). It is in this

background that the petitioner has approached this Court praying that

directions be issued for investigation of the case by the CBI or any other

independent agency in the light of the fact finding report prepared by the

Inspector General of Registration, Punjab, Jalandhar and that the guilty be

accordingly prosecuted under the penal law, service law and under Section

81 of the Registration Act which provision deals with penalties for offences

commited under the Registration Act . The petitioner has also sought

directions to the respondents requiring them to explain as to why no action

is being taken against the guilty officers/private persons till date. 7. On notice having been issued, the respondents put in appearance

and filed their responses. On 05.07.2011 a statement was made before this

Court by the learned counsel for the State that departmental enquiry against

the delinquent officials was under way and it would be concluded within

one month and follow up action would be taken in further one month. Upon

this statement, the respondents were required to file an affidavit of

compliance and the matter was posted for 17.10.2011. On 17.10.2011

further time was prayed for by the learned State counsel on the ground that

final order on the enquiry report was yet to be passed by the Financial

Commissioner. On 09.11.2011 an affidavit was filed by the Deputy

Commissioner, Hoshiarpur in Court annexing the report of enquiry

conducted by the Financial Commissioner, Punjab which exonerates the CWP No.12539 of 2010 -6- officials and thus the matter was set down for hearing on 22.12.2011. 8. We have perused the order passed by the Financial Commissioner

and are of the considered view that the explanation tendered by the

delinquents could not have been accepted as there was wanton disregard to

the instructions dated 26.10.2005 (P-1). According to clause 6 of the

instructions, the Registering Officer himself was required to verify the

amount deposited in the SBI, Hoshiarpur Branch. It is no excuse and

defence to the charge that that no such on-line service was commenced by

the SBI and, therefore, there was no duty cast to verify the amount

deposited in the Bank. It is an admitted fact that there was fabrication of the

amount deposited and reflected in the papers presented before the

Registering Officer. This proves fabrication and participation by the

delinquents. In the aforesaid circumstances the fabrication cannot be ruled

out and needs to be probed in depth. In our considered view the enquiry

report and exoneration of the delinquent officials is not in order. 9. The Financial Commissioner has passed the buck to the SBI by

holding that he had come to the conclusion that the SBI Hoshiarpur did not

take necessary steps in time and, therefore, the Tehsildar/Naib Tehsildars

had not acted in an irresponsible manner nor they infringe Government

instructions. Unfortunately, the charge-sheets have been improperly

dropped by the Financial Commissioner without dealing with the provisions

of Para 4 (vi) of the Punjab Government instructions which were required to

be adhered to and implemented by public servants holding office of public

trust. That trust was breached, and we are afraid to say, so clumsily and

casually by the Financial Commissioner which leaves bad taste. It is not the CWP No.12539 of 2010 -7- case stated or argued before us by any of the respondents that due steps

were taken by the Registering Officer/Tehsildars for purchase of modem, a

step so fundamental in compliance of the Government instructions. It ought

to have been the first step in the direction of compliance of provisions of

Para 4(vi) which without doubt had to be taken by the Registering Officer.

Any reasonable man would have taken the view we take borne out of the

plain language of Para 4 (vi). The SBI could not be blamed so easily as has

been done by the Financial Commissioner in his report. It was the principal

duty of the Sub Registrar/Joint Sub Registrar and Registration Clerks that

before attesting any vasika the required stamp duty to be affixed should be

checked. The Tehsildars had failed to put the entire system on-line with the

SBI. There is procedural illegality and mala fides writ large in this case

inasmuch as things which were required to be done in a particular manner

were not so done with dubious intentions and for considerations other than

law. The criminal complicity of the dramatis personae cannot be ruled out.

We are of the considered view that the matter needs fair and impartial

investigation by an independeant agency to unravel the truth in public

interest and bring the guilty to book. We, however, reject the prayer for a

CBI investigation in view of the law laid down by the Constitution Bench

of the Supreme Court in 'State of West Bengal and others v. Committee for

Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal & others', (2010) 3 S.C.C.

571, that the extraordinary power under Article 226 in a case where

directions are sought to CBI to conduct investigation "must be exercised

sparingly, cautiously and in exceptional situations where it becomes

necessary to provide credibility and instil confidence in investigations or CWP No.12539 of 2010 -8- where the incident may have national and international

ramifications.....Otherwise CBI would be flooded with a large number of

cases and with limited resources may find it difficult to properly investigate

even serious cases and even lose credibility and purpose when

unsatisfactory investigations". On the material presented before us, we are

satisfied that investigation at the hands of the Vigilance Bureau, Punjab in

this case would meet the ends of public justice. We, therefore, dispose of

this petition with the following directions without expressing any opinion

on the merits which lie exclusively in the domain of investigation:-