Heard the learned Senior counsel Sri.D.R.Ravishankar,
 appearing for the petitioners. The petitioners are accused Nos.1 to 3. They are said to
 have assured the complainant - respondent No.2 that they
 would secure a ticket in the then ensuing Parlimentary election
 and are said to have taken Rs.25/- lakhs. The alleged
 transaction ostensibly has happened prior to the elections or
 even announcement of candidates. If the candidature was not
 announced then, the compliant should have been registered
 then and there. A complaint is registered on 17.10.2024. Six
 months after the incident. The learned Senior counsel submits that the money
 that has allegedly been taken by these petitioners they
 would undertake to refund the entire amount to the
 complainant and that has been the stand of the
 petitioners that they would in its entirety refund the
 amount to the complainant. Therefore, it is a pure money claim between the
 petitioner and the respondent - complainant. This is now 6 rendered with the colour of crime by registering several
offences. The complaint itself narrates that the hurling of
abuses happens in the house of the petitioners, which
admittedly is in the four walls of the house. It is neither
in a public place nor a place of public view for it to
become an offence under Section 3(1)(r) and (s) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention
of Atrocities) Act, 1989 . The issue qua the Atrocities Act stands covered by
the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Hitesh
Verma vs State Of Uttarakhand reported in 2020 10 SCC 710.

 Since the issue is purely a money claim between the
two, permitting further proceedings / investigation would
result in the issue running foul of the judgment of the
Apex Court in the case of Lalit Chaturvedi v. State of U.P . - 2024 SCC OnLine SC 171. Therefore, there shall be an interim order of stay of
further investigation in Crime No.409/2024 and all
consequential action taken pursuant to the registration of the
crime, qua the petitioners, till the next date of hearing. The petitioners are said to be in police custody and the
custody of which is till tomorrow, they shall in the light of the
aforesaid order be released forthwith, in the manner known to
law. Registry is directed to forthwith communicate the same to
the respondents. Hand delivery of the order is permitted." (Emphasis supplied) 7 A submission was made before this Court while granting an interim

order that it is purely a money claim between the petitioners and

the 2nd respondent. However, the petitioners have offered to return

the amount back. In that light, the interim order was granted. It is

also submitted that an amount to the tune of ₹75/- lakhs is also

returned to the complainant. The matter is heard at that stage. 4. The learned senior counsel Sri D.R. Ravishankar appearing

for one of the petitioner and Sri Mayur D. Bhanu appearing for the

other petitioners, would in unison contend that it is purely a money

claim between the petitioners and the 2nd respondent. The criminal

law is set into motion for the purpose of recovery of money, only

because the 2nd respondent will have to shell out Court fee and will

have to wait for a decision in the civil proceedings. To fast track

recovery of money, the present crime is registered. 5. The learned senior counsel Sri M.T. Nanaiah appearing for

the 2nd respondent would submit that the petitioners have

undertaken that they would pay back the money before this Court. The undertaking cannot now be obviated by making legal 8 submissions. Therefore, he would submit that a clear case of

cheating is made out against these petitioners, as they have lured

the husband of the complainant to part with certain money on a

desire to contest the elections. The amount was admittedly paid in

cash after taking hand loans from several others. 6. The learned senior counsel for the petitioners would join

issue in contending that merely because the petitioners have

undertaken or have paid certain amount, it would not mean that for

the remainder of the amount, the complainant should be permitted

to pursue the criminal remedy. It is always open to her and her

husband to file a civil suit for the remaining amount that is to be

paid to the complainant. Insofar as the offence under the Act is

concerned, the learned counsel Sri Mayur D. Bhanu submits that

the alleged hurling of abuses has taken place within the four

corners of a house and as such it cannot become ingredients of the

Act. The learned counsel for the parties have placed reliance on

several judgments, all of which would bear consideration qua their

relevance in the course of the order. 7. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and have perused the

material on record. 8. The afore-narrated facts and link in the chain of reasons

for the transaction between the parties is a matter of record. What

remains to be considered is, whether further investigation should be

permitted in the case at hand or not? Since the entire issue has

triggered from the complaint, I deem it appropriate to notice the

complaint. It reads as follows: <ಷಯ;- ನನ ೆ Fೕಸ ಉ+ೆSೕಶ ಂದ ಒಳಸಂಚು ನUೆJ, BೋಕಸVಾ ಚು ಾವ ೆ ೆ 4.Hೆ.WXಂದ Y)ೆ1 )ೊZಸುವ:+ಾ[ ನಂ4J, ನ\]ಂದ ಹಣವನು`
 ಪUೆದು Fೕಸ OಾZ, )ೇಳಲು @ೋದ ನನ ೆ HಾI $ಂದ ೆ OಾZ,
 ಹBೆ0 OಾZರುವ ಬ ೆa ದೂರು. --- ಾನು bೕBೆ IcJರುವ ೆಂಗಳ! ನ <=ಾಸದ 0 ಸುOಾರು 05 ವಷ.ಗcಂದ
 ಾಸ ಾ[ರು%ೆDೕ ೆ, ಾನು ಮೂಲತಃ 4Hಾಪ:ರದ CೊBಾ0ಪ: ರCೆDಯ )ೆ.@ೆA.4 )ಾBೋ$ಯ
$ ಾJfಾ[ರು%ೆDೕ ೆ. ಾನು ಗೃNLfಾ[ದುS, )ೆಲವ: ಸOಾಜ Cೇ ಾ )ಾಯ.ಗಳನು` @ಾಗೂ
Qಾಜgೕಯ ಚಟುವY)ೆಗಳ 0 %ೊಡ[)ೊಂZರು%ೆDೕ ೆ. ನನ` ಪIfಾದ j5ೕ +ೇ ಾನಂ, ಪ:3 Jಂk
ಚ ಾ'( ರವರು 2018 ೇ Cಾ ನ 0 4Hಾಪ:ರ ?Bೆ0ಯ <lಾನ ಸVಾ mೇತ5-31, ಾಗ ಾ ಾದ 0
Hೆ.Z.ಎ ಪnದ ಅVಾPp.fಾ[ ಜಯಗcJದSರು. 2023 ೇ Cಾ ನ 0 ಸqr.JದುS,
ಚು ಾXತQಾ[ರುವ: ಲ0. ನಮ] ಪI ೆ ಉತDಮ ಾದ ೆಂಬಲ<ದS )ಾರಣ, ನಮ ೆ ಪ ಚಯ<ದS @ಾಗೂ ಅಥLಯ 0
ಇಂ?$ಯ ಆ[ )ಾಯ. $ವ.NಸುIDರುವ uೇಖ ಾಯw ಎಂಬುವವರ ನಮ ೆ ಪ ಚಯ<ದುS,
ಇವರು ಇ+ೇ ವಷ.ದ OಾA. Iಂಗಳ Fದಲ ೇ ಾರದ 0 ನಮ] ಮ ೆ ೆ ಬಂ ದುS, ತನ ೆ j5ೕ
¥ÀæºÁèzï HೋxAiÀÄªÀgÀ ¸ÀºÉÆÃzÀgÀgÁzÀ j5ೕ ೋ ಾ3, Hೋxರವರ ಪ ಚಯ<ರುವ:+ಾ[, ಈ
¨sÁj ಚು ಾವ ೆಯ 0- 4.Hೆ.W ಮತುD Hೆ.Z.ಎ ಪnಗಳz ಒ{ಾ [ bೖI5 OಾZ)ೊಂಡು ಸqr.ಸುIDದುS
ಅವರ ಮು;ಾಂತರ ಪ5Vಾವ |ೕ ನನ ೆ ಈ ಾ ಯ 2024 ೇ Cಾ ನ BೋಕಸVಾ ಚು ಾವ ೆಯ 0
Jೕ1 )ೊZಸುವ:+ಾ[ @ೇc, ಇ+ೇ ವಷ.ದ OಾA. Iಂಗಳ Fದಲ ೇ ಾರದ ಒಂದು ನ ನನ`ನು`
@ಾಗೂ ನನ` ಪIಯನು` ೋ ಾ3 Hೋj ಯವರ ಹುಬ}c~ಯ ಮ ೆ ೆ ಕQೆದು)ೊಂಡು @ೋ[ದುS, ಾನು
@ಾಗೂ ನನ` ಪIಯು j5ೕ ೋ ಾ3 Hೋjಯವರನು` VೇY OಾಡBಾ[, j5ೕ ೋ ಾ3
Hೋjಯವರು ಈ ಾಗBೇ $ಮ] ಬ ೆa ನನ ೆ uೇಖ ಾಯw ರವರು ಎಲ0ವನು` @ೇc+ಾSQೆ. ಬ$` ನನ`
ತಮ] ಪ5@ಾ0, Hೋjಯವರ ಆ•ೕ ನ 0 ಕುcತು Oಾತ ಾUೋ ಾ ೆಂದು ನಮ]ನು` ೋ ಾ3
Hೋjಯವರು ಹುಬ}c~ಯ ಪ5@ಾ0, Hೋjಯವರ ಕ€ೇ ೆ ಕQೆದು)ೊಂಡು @ೋದರು. ಅ 0 ೋ ಾ3
Hೋjಯವರು ಸಧP)ೆ‚ )ೇಂದ5 ಸ)ಾ.ರದ 0 ನನ` ತಮ] ಪ5@ಾ0, Hೋjಯವರ ವಚ.ಸು ತುಂ ಾ
ƒೆ ಾ`[+ೆ, ಆತನು @ೇcದಂ%ೆ Fೕ @ಾಗೂ ಅ\„ uಾ ಇಬ}ರು )ೇಳz%ಾDQೆ, ಎಂ{ೈ ಕ ಾ.ಟಕದ
Qಾಜgೕಯ ಜ ಾ ಾS ಯನು` Fೕ ಮತುD ಅ\„ uಾ ರವರು ನನ` ತಮ] ಪ5@ಾ0, Hೋjಯವ ೆ
ಉಸುD ಾ ವNJ+ಾSQೆ. ಆ ಾ[ 4Hಾಪ:ರ mೇತ5ದ 0 $ಮ] @ೆಸರು ಸಹ ƒೆ ಾ`[ರುವ:ದ ಂದ ಾನು
ನನ` ತಮ] ೊಂ ೆ Oಾತ ಾZ $ಮ ೆ 4.Hೆ.W Xಂದ BೋಕಸVಾ ಚು ಾವ ೆ ೆ 4Hಾಪ:ರ mೇತ5)ೆ‚
Y)ೆ1 )ೊZಸು%ೆDೕ ೆ. $ೕವ: @ೇ ಾದರೂ OಾZ ಇ\Z...ೕ1 5 )ೋY ಹಣ QೆZ OಾZ)ೊc~, $ಮ ೆ
Y)ೆ1 ಪಕ‚ )ೊZಸು%ೆDೕ ೆಂದು IcJದರು. ಆಗ ಾನು ನಮ] ಬc ಅ†ೊ ಂದು ಹಣ<ಲ0, ಅಗBಾ0 4Z 11 ನಮ ೆ Y)ೆ{ೇ ೇಡ ಎಂದು ನಮ] ಮನ ೆ ಬಂ+ೆವ:. ಮರು ನ ೆc ೆa ಸುOಾರು 11-00 ಗಂ{ೆ ೆ
ೋ ಾ3 Hೋjಯವರು ತನ` F.ನಂ.7795230162$ಂದ ನನ` ಪI ೆ ಕQೆ OಾZ ೆ ೆ` ನUೆದ
<ƒಾರದ ಬUÉÎ Oಾತ ಾಡು%ಾD $ೕವ: 5 )ೋY ಒY ೆ )ೊಡುವ:ದು ೇಡ ಸಧP)ೆ‚ 25 ಲn )ೊZ,
ಉcದ ಹಣದ ಭದ5%ೆ ಾ[ ಒಂದು ƒೆw )ೊZ ಎಂದು )ೇcದರು, ಅದ)ೆ‚ ನನ` ಪIಯವರು ನಮ] ಬc 25
ಲnವ: ಸಹ ಇಲ0 ೆಂದು, ನಮ ೆ ಕಡ ಖಂZತ ಾ[ Y)ೆ1 ೇಡ ೆಂದು ಕQೆ ಕ1 OಾZರು%ಾDQೆ. ಆ ಬcಕ
` ೋ ಾ3 Hೋjಯವರು ನನ` F.ನಂ.9449816769 ೆ, ಕQೆ, OಾZ fಾ)ೇ $ಮ] Cಾ@ೇಬರು
Nಂk Oಾ%ಾZD+ಾQೆ, fಾw ಸ fಾ[ QೆCಾq OಾZDಲ0, ˆೕƒೆ OಾZ. ಇ+ೊ=ೆ~ ಅಪಚು.$Y
`\ OಾUೊ‚ ೇZ. ಸಧP)ೆ‚ 25 ಲn %ೆ ೆದು)ೊಂಡು ೆಂಗಳ! ನ ಬಸ ೇಶ ರನಗರದ ನನ`
ಸ@ೋದ ಯ ಮ ೆ ೆ ತಂದು )ೊZ, ಉcದ ಹಣದ ಶ‰ Y ಾ[ ಒಂದು ƒೆw )ೊZ ಎಂದು @ೇcದುS,
ಆತ ೇ Nಂ+ೆ...ೕ uೇಖ ಾಯw ರವರು ಸಹ ಕQೆ OಾZ ೋ ಾ3 Hೋjಯವರು $ಮ ೆ ಒ=ೆ~ಯ
ಅವ)ಾಶವನು` $ೕಡುID+ಾSQೆ \ OಾUೊ‚ ೇZ ಎಂದು ನನ ೆ IcJದರು. ಾನು ಆಯುD ನನ ೆ ಒಂದು
 ನ {ೈಂ )ೊZ. ˆೕಚ ೆ Oಾಡು%ೆDೕ ೆಂದು IcJ+ೆನು. ಆಗ uೇಖ ಾಯw ರವರು ಅ†ೆ ಲ0
ಸಮಯ<ಲ0, ಇಂ+ೇ ಏ$zÀÄæ ಮುಗುCೊ‚ೕc~ ಎಂದು IcJದುS, ಾನು ನನ` ಬಂಧು-ಬಳಗದವ ಂದ 25
ಲn Cಾಲ ಪUೆದು ಅ+ೇ ನ QಾI5 ಾನು 25 ಲn ನಗದು ಹಣವನು` ೋ ಾ3 Hೋjರವರು
ಸೂ‹Jದ ಅವರ ಸ@ೋದ <ಜಯಲŒ•ೕ ಯವರ ಮ ೆ ೆ @ೋ[ದುS, ಅವರ ಮ ೆಯ 0 ಒಬ}ರು
ಮN=ೆXದುS, ಅವರನು` Oಾತ ಾZಸBಾ[ ತನ` @ೆಸರು <ಜಯಲŒ•ೕ ಎಂದು %ಾನು ಪ5@ಾ0,
Hೋjಯವರ ಸ@ೋದ ಎಂದು IcJದರು. ಆಗ ಾನು ೋ ಾ3 Hೋj ರವರು IcJದS
<ƒಾರವನು` IcJದುS, ಅವರು ನನ`ನು` ತಮ] ಮ ೆ ಒಳ ೆ ಬರOಾZ)ೊಂಡರು. ಬcಕ ಾನು
ೋ ಾ3 Hೋj ೆ ಕQೆ OಾZ ಾನು ಹಣವನು` %ೆ ೆದು)ೊಂಡು ಬಂ ರುವ <ƒಾರವನು` IcJದುS
ಆತನು ಆ ಹಣವನು` ತನ` ಸ@ೋದ <ಜಯಲŒ•ೕಯವ ೆ $ೕZ ಎಂದನು. ಆದS ಂದ ನನ` ಬcXದS
25 ಲn ನಗದು ಹಣವನು` %ೆ ೆದು ೋ ಾ3 Hೋjಯವರ ಸ@ೋದ <ಜಯಲŒ•ೕ Hೋj ೆ
$ೕZ+ೆನು. ಇ+ಾಧ ಸ ಲq ಸಮಯದ 0...ೕ ೋ ಾ3 Hೋjಯವರು £Á«zÀÝ ªÀÄ£ÀUÉ ಬಂದರು. ಬcಕ
 ಾನು ೋ ಾ3 Hೋjರವರು ಆತನು ಹಣವನು` ಪUೆದು ಈ ಹಣ ನನಗಲ0, ಇದು ಅ\„ uಾ ರವರ
ಪಸ.ನ3 Cೆ)ೆ5ಟ ೆ $ೕಡ ೇ)ೆಂದು ತನ` ಬcXದS F ೈ3 %ೆ ೆದು fಾವ:+ೋ ಒಂದು ನಂಬ ೆ
ಕQೆ OಾZ ಸ ಲq ಅಂತರದ 0 $ಂತು Oಾತ ಾZ)ೊಂಡು ಾಪಸು ನನ` ಬc ಬಂದು, ಅ\„ uಾ ರವರ
W.ಎ ೆ Oಾತ ಾZfಾXತು. ಇನೂ` $ ೇನೂ ತBೆ )ೆZJ)ೊಳ~ ೇZ. $ಮ] Y)ೆ1 ಕನ`Ž.
ಎಂದು @ೇc, ಉcದ ಹಣದ ಭದ5%ೆ ಾ[ ನ$`ಂದ 5 )ೋY ೆBೆಯ ƒೆw ಅನು` ಪUೆದು)ೊಂಡು ನನ`ನು`
ಕಳzNJ)ೊಟ ನು. ಇ+ಾದ ಬcಕ ೋ ಾ3 Hೋjಯವರು %ಾವ: IcJದಂ%ೆ ನನ ೆ 4.Hೆ.W Xಂದ
BೋಕಸVಾ ಚು ಾವ ೆ ೆ Y)ೆ1 )ೊZಸ ಲ0. ಆ ಬcಕ ಾನು ೋ ಾ3 Hೋjಯವ ೆ ಕQೆ OಾZ
ನಮ ೆ Y)ೆ1 $ೕZಲ0ದ )ಾರಣ, ಾವ: $ೕZರುವ ಹಣ ಮತುD ƒೆw ಅನು` ಾಪಸು $ೕಡುವಂ%ೆ
)ೇc)ೊಳ~Bಾ[ ಆತನು ನನ`ನು` ೆಂಗಳ! ನ ಬಸ ೇಶ ರನಗರದ ತನ` ಸ@ೋದ ಯ ಮ ೆ ೆ ಬ$` 12 Oಾತ ಾUೋ ಾ ೆಂದು, ನನ`ನು` ತಮ] ಸ@ೋದ <ಜಯಲŒ•ೕಯವರ ಮನ ೆ ಮ%ೊDb]
ಕQೆJ)ೊಂಡನು. <ಜಯಲŒ•ೕಯವರ ಮ ೆಯ 0 ನನ ೆ ಾನು ಈ Nಂ+ೆ $ೕZದS 5 )ೋYಯ ƒೆಕ‚ನು`
 ಾಪಸು $ೕZದರು. ಆಗ ಾನು ನನ ೆ $ೕಡ ೇ)ಾದ 25 ಲn ಹಣವನು` $ೕZ ಎಂದು )ೇcದುS, ಆತನು
%ಾನು ಈಗ $ಮ ೆ $ೕಡ ೇ)ಾದ ಹಣವನು` ಾಪಸು $ೕಡBಾಗುವ: ಲ0. ತನ ೆ 200 )ೋY ೆBೆಯ
 ಾ5Hೆw ನ 4ಲು0 ಗವನ.bಂ1ನ 0+ೆ. ಆ ಾ5Hೆw ನ 4ಲು0 QೆZfಾ[ದುS. ಇನೂ` ಇಪqತುD ನಗಳ 0
ಆಗು%ೆD ಎಂದು ನನ ೆ 200 )ೋY ಾ5Hೆw ನ 4ಲು0ಗಳ ಬ ೆa )ೆಲವ: +ಾಖBಾIಗಳನು` %ೋ J,
 J $ೕವ: 757-58, paras 18-19)

 "18. Let us now examine whether the ingredients
 of an offence of cheating are made out. The essential
 ingredients of the offence of "cheating" are as
 follows: 19. To constitute an offence under Section
 420, there should not only be cheating, but as a
 consequence of such cheating, the accused should
 have dishonestly induced the person deceived: 7. Similar elucidation by this Court in V.Y.
Jose v. State of Gujarat [V.Y. Jose v. State of Gujarat,
(2009) 3 SCC 78: (2009) 1 SCC (Cri) 996], explicitly
states that a contractual dispute or breach of contract per
se should not lead to initiation of a criminal proceeding.
The ingredient of "cheating", as defined under Section
415IPC, is existence of a fraudulent or dishonest
intention of making initial promise or representation
thereof, from the very beginning of the formation of
contract. Further, in the absence of the averments made
in the complaint petition wherefrom the ingredients of
the offence can be found out, the High Court should not
hesitate to exercise its jurisdiction under Section
482CrPC. Section 482CrPC saves the inherent power of
the High Court, as it serves a salutary purpose viz. a
person should not undergo harassment of litigation for a
number of years, when no criminal offence is made out. It
is one thing to say that a case has been made out for trial and
criminal proceedings should not be quashed, but another thing
to say that a person must undergo a criminal trial despite the
fact that no offence has been made out in the complaint. This
Court in V.Y. Jose [V.Y. Jose v. State of Gujarat , (2009) 3 SCC
78: (2009) 1 SCC (Cri) 996] placed reliance on several earlier
decisions in Hira Lal Hari Lal Bhagwati v. CBI [Hira Lal Hari Lal
Bhagwati v. CBI, (2003) 5 SCC 257: 2003 SCC (Cri) 1121: 8. Having gone through the complaint, which was
registered as an FIR and the assertions made therein, it is quite
clear that Respondent 2 complainant Sanjay Garg's grievance is
regarding failure of the appellants to pay the outstanding
amount, in spite of Respondent 2 complainant Sanjay Garg's
repeated demands. Respondent 2 complainant Sanjay Garg
states that the supplies were made between the period 1-12-
2015 and 6-8-2017. The appellants had made the payments
from time to time of Rs 3,76,40,553 leaving a balance of Rs
1,92,91,358. 9. We will assume that the assertions made in the
complaint are correct, but even then, a criminal offence
under Section 420 read with Section 415IPC is not
established in the absence of deception by making false
and misleading representation, dishonest concealment or
any other act or omission, or inducement of the
complainant to deliver any property at the time of the
contract(s) being entered. The ingredients to allege the
offence are neither stated nor can be inferred from the
averments. A prayer is made to the police for recovery of money
from the appellants. The police is to investigate the allegations
which discloses a criminal act. Police does not have the power
and authority to recover money or act as a civil court for
recovery of money. 10. The charge-sheet also refers to Section 406IPC, but
without pointing out how the ingredients of the said section are
satisfied. No details and particulars are mentioned. There are
decisions which hold that the same act or transaction cannot
result in an offence of cheating and criminal breach of trust
simultaneously. [ Wolfgang Reim v. State , (2012) 173 Comp Cas
86 : 2012 SCC OnLine Del 3341; Mahindra and Mahindra
Financial Services Ltd. v. Delta Classic (P) Ltd., (2009) 151 17 Comp Cas 661 : 2009 SCC OnLineGau 105 : (2011) 6 Gau LR
 604; Mukesh Sharma v. State of H.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine HP
 426] For the offence of cheating, dishonest intention must
 exist at the inception of the transaction, whereas, in case
 of criminal breach of trust there must exist a relationship
 between the parties whereby one party entrusts another
 with the property as per law, albeit dishonest intention
 comes later. 11. In this case entrustment is missing, in fact it is not
 even alleged. It is a case of sale of goods. The charge-sheet
 does refer to Section 506IPC relying upon the averments in the
 complaint. However, no details and particulars are given, when
 and on which date and place the threats were given. Without
 the said details and particulars, it is apparent to us, that these
 allegations of threats, etc. have been made only with an intent
 to activate police machinery for recovery of money. 12. It is for Respondent 2 complainant Sanjay Garg to file
 a civil suit. Initiation of the criminal process for oblique
 purposes, is bad in law and amounts to abuse of process of
 law." The Apex Court clearly holds that if there is intention to cheat from

the inception, then it would become an offence under Section 316

or Section 318 of the BNS. The issue, in the case at hand, is a

transaction which has gone wrong. Money allegedly changed hands. Therefore, it was purely for the purpose of recovery of money

criminal proceedings are set into motion, which the Apex Court

deprecated in the aforesaid judgment. 9.2. The Apex Court in the case of ANUKUL SINGH v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH2, has held as follows: "... ... ... 11.5. Thus, the cumulative principles that emerge
 are: while the jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is
 extraordinary and must be exercised sparingly, it is the
 duty of the High Court to intervene where continuation of
 criminal proceedings would amount to an abuse of
 process of law, or where the dispute is purely of a civil
 nature and criminal colour has been artificially given to it.
 Conversely, where disputed questions of fact arise requiring
 adjudication, the matter must ordinarily proceed to trial. 12. The specific case of the appellant is that his father
 purchased land comprised in Khasra Nos. 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22
 situated at Village Sherpur Mafi, District Moradabad, from one
 Akil Hussain. This land was used for the purposes of Qurbani.
 According to the appellant, in order to usurp the said property,
 the Shaher Imam of Bilari, in collusion with the district
 administration and under pressure exerted upon the local police,
 ensured that a series of false criminal cases were foisted against
 him. As many as eight FIRs were lodged against the
 appellant, including the present one, all of which, in
 substance, arise out of a civil dispute relating to
 ownership and possession of the property. Initiation of
 the present criminal proceedings, therefore, amounts to a
 clear abuse of the process of law, squarely falling within
 the illustrative categories delineated in Bhajan Lal,
 particularly where the dispute is manifestly civil in nature
 and the prosecution is maliciously instituted with an
 ulterior motive. 13. The record reveals that within a short span, as many
 as eight FIRs were registered against the appellant. The
 gravamen of the allegations in the present FIR is that
 Respondent No. 2/complainant approached the appellant for a
 loan of Rs. 2,00,000/-, but was allegedly advanced only Rs.
 1,40,000/-. It is further alleged that, in connection with the said 2 2025 SCC OnLine SC 2060 19 transaction, an agreement to sell dated 09.11.1998 was
executed in respect of a plot owned by the complainant, and
that the appellant procured three cheques from Respondent No.
2, which, upon presentation, were dishonoured for insufficiency
of funds. Even if accepted in entirety, these allegations disclose,
at best, a civil dispute and do not prima facie constitute the
essential ingredients of the criminal offences alleged. 14. It is significant to note that prior to registration of the
present FIR, the appellant had already initiated proceedings
against Respondent No. 2, namely a complaint under Section
138 of the N.I. Act (Complaint No. 2402840/2005) before the
N.I. Court, Moradabad, as well as FIR No. 120/2002, in which,
the complainant himself was arrested. The present FIR was
lodged nearly three months after the filing of the Section 138
complaint and seven months after FIR No. 120/2002. The plea
that the FIR is a retaliatory counterblast to the proceedings
legitimately initiated by the appellant, therefore, carries
substantial weight. 15. The mala fide nature of the complaint is further
fortified by the fact that, by judgment dated 15.01.2025, the
trial Court convicted Respondent No. 2 under Section 138 of the
N.I. Act, sentencing him to one month's imprisonment and
imposing a fine of Rs. 90,000/-. This conviction lends strong
support to the appellant's case that the initiation of the present
FIR was a retaliatory measure, maliciously instituted with an
ulterior motive to neutralise the lawful action taken by him. 16. Despite this background, the police proceeded to file
a charge sheet dated 16.04.2003 against the appellant for
offences under sections 420 , 467 , and 468 IPC. Even if the
allegations are assumed to be true, they unmistakably arise out
of a commercial/contractual transaction relating to loan and
repayment, which has been given a criminal colour. The case
thus falls squarely within categories (1) and (7) of Bhajan Lal,
namely, where the allegations do not disclose the commission of
an offence, and where the proceedings are maliciously instituted
with an ulterior motive. Continuation of such prosecution would
amount to an abuse of process of law and consequently,
warrant quashing under Section 482 Cr.P.C. 17. This Court has, in a long line of decisions,
deprecated the tendency to convert civil disputes into
criminal proceedings. In Indian Oil Corporation v. NEPC
India Ltd. , it was held that criminal law cannot be used as
a tool to settle scores in commercial or contractual
matters, and that such misuse amounts to abuse of
process. The following paragraphs from the decision are
apposite: Such a tendency is seen in several family disputes
 also, leading to irretrievable break down of
 marriages/families. There is also an impression that
 if a person could somehow be entangled in a criminal
 prosecution, there is a likelihood of imminent
 settlement. Any effort to settle civil disputes and
 claims, which do not involve any criminal offence, by
 applying pressure though criminal prosecution should
 be deprecated and discouraged." 18. Similarly, in Inder Mohan Goswami v. State of
Uttaranchal , it was emphasized that criminal prosecution
must not be permitted as an instrument of harassment or
private vendetta. In Ganga Dhar Kalita v. State of Assam ,
this Court again reiterated that criminal complaints in
respect of property disputes of civil nature, filed solely to
harass the accused or to exert pressure in civil litigation,
constitute an abuse of process. 19. Most recently, in Shailesh Kumar Singh @
Shailesh R. Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh , this Court
disapproved the practice of using criminal proceedings as
a substitute for civil remedies, observing that money
recovery cannot be enforced through criminal
prosecution where the dispute is essentially civil. The
Court cautioned High Courts not to direct settlements in such
matters but to apply the settled principles in Bhajan Lal. The
following paragraphs are relevant in this context: However, instead of looking into the matter on its own
 merits, the High Court thought fit to direct the petitioner to
 go for mediation and that too by making payment of Rs.
 25,00,000/- to the 4th respondent as a condition precedent.
 We fail to understand why the High Court should undertake
 such exercise. The High Court may either allow the petition
 saying that no offence is disclosed or may reject the petition
 saying that no case for quashing is made out. Why should
 the High Court make an attempt to help the complainant to
 recover the amount due and payable by the accused. It is
 for the Civil Court or Commercial Court as the case may be 23 to look into in a suit that may be filed for recovery of money
 or in any other proceedings, be it under the Arbitration Act,
 1996 or under the provisions of the IB Code, 2016. 12. Why the High Court was not able to understand that
 the entire dispute between the parties is of a civil nature. 13. We also enquired with the learned counsel appearing
 for the Respondent No. 4 whether his client has filed any
 civil suit or has initiated any other proceedings for recovery
 of the money. It appears that no civil suit has been filed for
 recovery of money till this date. Money cannot be
 recovered, more particularly, in a civil dispute between the
 parties by filing a First Information Report and seeking the
 help of the Police. This amounts to abuse of the process of
 law. 14. We could have said many things but we refrain from
 observing anything further. If the Respondent No. 4 has to
 recover a particular amount, he may file a civil suit or seek
 any other appropriate remedy available to him in law. He
 cannot be permitted to take recourse of criminal
 proceedings. 15. We are quite disturbed by the manner in which the
 High Court has passed the impugned order. The High Court
 first directed the appellant to pay Rs. 25,00,000/- to the
 Respondent No. 4 and thereafter directed him to appear
 before the Mediation and Conciliation Centre for the purpose
 of settlement. That's not what is expected of a High Court
 to do in a Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of
 the Constitution or a miscellaneous application filed under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 for
 quashing of FIR or any other criminal proceedings. What is
 expected of the High Court is to look into the averments
 and the allegations levelled in the FIR along with the other
 material on record, if any. The High Court seems to have
 forgotten the well-settled principles as enunciated in the
 decision of this Court in the " State of Haryana v. Bhajan
 Lal ", 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335" 16.04.2003, pending before the trial Court, are hereby quashed.
 This judgment, however, shall notpreclude the parties from
 pursuing civil remedies as may be available to them in
 accordance with law." 9.3. Later, the Apex Court, in the case of INDER CHAND

BAGRI v. JAGADISH PRASAD BAGRI3 , has held as follows: ".... .... .... 24. The complainant/respondent No. 1 has an
 alternative remedy of filing a civil suit to set aside the
 sale deed dated 20.06.2011 and claim damages for the
 alleged violation of his contractual rights which he is
 already pursuing vide Title Suit No. 160 of 2012 against
 the appellant-accused which is currently pending
 adjudication and hence the route through criminal
 proceedings, when no ingredient of offence is made out,
 cannot be permitted. Criminal law ought not to become a
 platform for initiation of vindictive proceedings to settle
 personal scores and vendettas. The appellant-accused
 therefore, in our view, could not be attributed any mens
 rea and therefore, the allegations levelled by the 3 2025 SCC OnLine SC 2529 25 prosecution against the appellant-accused are
unsustainable. 25. Furthermore, in Inder Mohan Goswami, it was
held by this Court that the Court must ensure that
criminal prosecution is not used as an instrument of
harassment or for seeking private vendetta or with an
ulterior motive to pressurise the accused. It was further
held by this Court that it is neither possible nor desirable
to lay down an inflexible rule that would govern the
exercise of inherent jurisdiction. In view of the above and
for the reasons stated above, we are of the firm opinion
that to continue the criminal proceedings against the
appellant-accused herein would cause undue harassment
to him because as observed hereinabove, no prima
facie case for the offence under Sections 406 or 420 of
the IPC is made out. 26. In this regard, it would be apposite to rely on the
judgment in the case of State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal , 1992
Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri) 426 ("Bhajan Lal") with
particular reference to paragraph 102 therein, where this Court
observed: 27. On a careful consideration of the aforementioned
judicial dicta, we find that none of the offences alleged against
the appellant-accused herein is made out. In fact, we find that
the allegations of criminal intent and other allegations against
the appellant-accused herein have been made with a mala-
fide intent and therefore, the judgment of this Court in the case 27 of Bhajan Lal extracted above, squarely applies to the facts of
 these cases. It is neither expedient nor in the interest of justice
 to permit the present prosecution to continue. 28. At this juncture, we find it apposite to mention
 the observations of this Court in Vishal Noble
 Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh , (2024) 14 SCC
 112 wherein it was observed that in recent years the
 machinery of criminal justice is being misused by certain
 persons for their vested interests and for achieving their
 oblique motives and agenda. Courts have therefore to be
 vigilant against such tendencies and ensure that acts of
 omission and commission having an adverse impact on
 the fabric of our society must be nipped in the bud. We
 say so for the reason that while the
 complainant/respondent No. 1 has made grave
 allegations against the appellant herein, he has failed to
 justify the same before this Court. Such actions would
 create significant divisions and distrust among people,
 while also placing an unnecessary strain on the judicial
 system, particularly criminal courts." 10. What remains next is the offence under the Act. The

complaint itself indicates that the alleged hurling of abuses has

taken place in the house of the accused No.2. If it is inside the

house within the four corners, it would not become an offence

under the Act is by now too well settled principle. 10.1. The Apex Court in HITESH VERMA v. STATE OF

UTTARAKHAND4 , has held as follows: 12. The basic ingredients of the offence under Section 3(1)(r) of the Act can be classified as "(1)
intentionally insults or intimidates with intent to
humiliate a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled
Tribe and (2) in any place within public view". 13. The offence under Section 3(1)(r) of the Act
would indicate the ingredient of intentional insult and
intimidation with an intent to humiliate a member of a
Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe. All insults or
intimidations to a person will not be an offence under the
Act unless such insult or intimidation is on account of
victim belonging to Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe.
The object of the Act is to improve the socio-economic
conditions of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes as they are denied number of civil rights. Thus, an
offence under the Act would be made out when a member
of the vulnerable section of the society is subjected to
indignities, humiliations and harassment. The assertion of
title over the land by either of the parties is not due to either
the indignities, humiliations or harassment. Every citizen has a
right to avail their remedies in accordance with law. Therefore, if
the appellant or his family members have invoked jurisdiction of
the civil court, or that Respondent 2 has invoked the jurisdiction
of the civil court, then the parties are availing their remedies in
accordance with the procedure established by law. Such action
is not for the reason that Respondent 2 is a member of
Scheduled Caste. 14. Another key ingredient of the provision is insult or
intimidation in "any place within public view". What is to be
regarded as "place in public view" had come up for consideration
before this Court in the judgment reported as Swaran
Singh v. State [Swaran Singh v. State, (2008) 8 SCC 435 : (emphasis in original) 15. As per the FIR, the allegations of abusing the
informant were within the four walls of her building. It is
not the case of the informant that there was any member
of the public (not merely relatives or friends) at the time
of the incident in the house. Therefore, the basic
ingredient that the words were uttered "in any place 30 within public view" is not made out. In the list of
witnesses appended to the charge-sheet, certain
witnesses are named but it could not be said that those
were the persons present within the four walls of the
building. The offence is alleged to have taken place
within the four walls of the building. Therefore, in view of
the judgment of this Court in Swaran Singh [Swaran
Singh v. State , (2008) 8 SCC 435 : (2008) 3 SCC (Cri)
527] , it cannot be said to be a place within public view as
none was said to be present within the four walls of the
building as per the FIR and/or charge-sheet. 16. There is a dispute about the possession of the land
which is the subject-matter of civil dispute between the parties
as per Respondent 2 herself. Due to dispute, the appellant and
others were not permitting Respondent 2 to cultivate the land
for the last six months. Since the matter is regarding possession
of property pending before the civil court, any dispute arising on
account of possession of the said property would not disclose an
offence under the Act unless the victim is abused, intimidated or
harassed only for the reason that she belongs to Scheduled
Caste or Scheduled Tribe. 17. In another judgment reported as Khuman
Singh v. State of M.P. [Khuman Singh v. State of M.P.,
(2020) 18 SCC 763 : 2019 SCC OnLine SC 1104] , this
Court held that in a case for applicability of Section
3(2)(v) of the Act, the fact that the deceased belonged to
Scheduled Caste would not be enough to inflict enhanced
punishment. This Court held that there was nothing to
suggest that the offence was committed by the appellant
only because the deceased belonged to Scheduled Caste.
The Court held as under: 18. Therefore, offence under the Act is not
established merely on the fact that the informant is a
member of Scheduled Caste unless there is an intention
to humiliate a member of Scheduled Caste or Scheduled
Tribe for the reason that the victim belongs to such caste.
In the present case, the parties are litigating over possession of
the land. The allegation of hurling of abuses is against a person
who claims title over the property. If such person happens to be
a Scheduled Caste, the offence under Section 3(1)(r) of the Act
is not made out. 19. This Court in a judgment reported as Subhash
Kashinath Mahajan v. State of Maharashtra [Subhash Kashinath
Mahajan v. State of Maharashtra, (2018) 6 SCC 454 : (2018) 3
SCC (Cri) 124] issued certain directions in respect of
investigations required to be conducted under the Act. In a
review filed by the Union against the said judgment, this Court
in a judgment reported as Union of India v. State of
Maharashtra [Union of India v. State of Maharashtra, (2020) 4
SCC 761 : (2020) 2 SCC (Cri) 686] reviewed the directions
issued by this Court and held that if there is a false and
unsubstantiated FIR, the proceedings under Section 482 of the
Code can be invoked. The Court held as under : ( Union of India case [ Union of India v. State of Maharashtra , (2020) 4 SCC 761
: (2020) 2 SCC (Cri) 686] , SCC p. 797, para 52)

 "52. There is no presumption that the members
 of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes may
 misuse the provisions of law as a class and it is not
 resorted to by the members of the upper castes or the
 members of the elite class. For lodging a false report, it
 cannot be said that the caste of a person is the cause. It
 is due to the human failing and not due to the caste
 factor. Caste is not attributable to such an act. On the
 other hand, members of the Scheduled Castes and
 Scheduled Tribes due to backwardness hardly muster
 the courage to lodge even a first information report,
 much less, a false one. In case it is found to be
 false/unsubstantiated, it may be due to the faulty 32 investigation or for other various reasons including
 human failings irrespective of caste factor. There may be
 certain cases which may be false that can be a ground
 for interference by the Court, but the law cannot be
 changed due to such misuse. In such a situation, it can
 be taken care of in proceeding under Section 482 CrPC." 20. Later, while examining the constitutionality of the
 provisions of the amending Act (Central Act 27 of 2018), this
 Court in a judgment reported as Prathvi Raj Chauhan v. Union
 of India [Prathvi Raj Chauhan v. Union of India, (2020) 4 SCC
 727 : (2020) 2 SCC (Cri) 657] held that proceedings can be
 quashed under Section 482 of the Code. It was held as under : The legal position is clear, and no argument to the
 contrary has been raised."" xxx xxxxxx 5 2025 SCC OnLine SC 215 33 (r) intentionally insults or intimidates with intent to
 humiliate a member of a Scheduled Caste or a
 Scheduled Tribe in any place within public view; (s) abuses any member of a Scheduled Caste or a
 Scheduled Tribe by caste name in any place
 within public view;" What is to be regarded as "place in public view" had
 come up for consideration before this Court in the
 judgment reported as Swaran Singh v. State [Swaran
 Singh v. State, (2008) 8 SCC 435 : (2008) 3 SCC (Cri)
 527]. The Court had drawn distinction between the
 expression "public place" and "in any place within public
 view". It was held that if an offence is committed
 outside the building e.g. in a lawn outside a house, and
 the lawn can be seen by someone from the road or lane
 outside the boundary wall, then the lawn would certainly
 be a place within the public view. On the contrary, if the
 remark is made inside a building, but some members of
 the public are there (not merely relatives or friends)
 then it would not be an offence since it is not in the
 public view (sic) [Ed. : This sentence appears to be
 contrary to what is stated below in the extract
 from Swaran Singh, (2008) 8 SCC 435, at p. 736d-e, 34 and in the application of this principle in para 15,
 below:"Also, even if the remark is made inside a
 building, but some members of the public are there (not
 merely relatives or friends) then also it would be an
 offence since it is in the public view."]. The Court held as
 under: (SCC pp. 443-44, para 28)

 "28. It has been alleged in the FIR that
 Vinod Nagar, the first informant, was insulted by
 Appellants 2 and 3 (by calling him a "chamar")
 when he stood near the car which was parked at
 the gate of the premises. In our opinion, this was
 certainly a place within public view, since the gate
 of a house is certainly a place within public view. It
 could have been a different matter had the alleged
 offence been committed inside a building, and also
 was not in the public view. However, if the
 offence is committed outside the building e.g.
 in a lawn outside a house, and the lawn can
 be seen by someone from the road or lane
 outside the boundary wall, the lawn would
 certainly be a place within the public view.
 Also, even if the remark is made inside a
 building, but some members of the public are
 there (not merely relatives or friends) then
 also it would be an offence since it is in the
 public view. We must, therefore, not confuse
 the expression "place within public view" (emphasis in original)" 10.3. In SOHANVIR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH6 the

Apex Court has held as follows: ".... .... .... 10. The expression "any place within public view" has
 been interpreted by this Court in numerous decisions, most
 recently in Karuppudayar v. State represented by the Deputy
 Superintendent of Police, Lalgudi, Trichy4. Relying on Hitesh
 Verma v. State of Uttarakhand5 , this Court reaffirmed that: "11. It could thus be seen that, to be a place
 'within public view', the place should be open
 where the members of the public can witness or
 hear the utterance made by the accused to the
 victim. If the alleged offence takes place within
 the four corners of the wall where members of the
 public are not present, then it cannot be said that
 it has taken place at a place within public view." 11. A perusal of the Application filed by the
 complainant under Section 156(3) of the CrPC reveals
 that the alleged casteist abuses were stated to have
 been used by the Appellants inside the premises of the
 complainant. This circumstance, on its face, does not
 satisfy the statutory requirement that the abuses were
 made "in any place within public view," which is an
 essential component of the offence under Section
 3(1)(s) of the SC/ST Act. The house of the complainant
 cannot be considered to be within public view. 12. Learned counsel appearing for the Respondent no. 2
 has not been able to show that the complaint or the statement
 recorded under Section 200 CrPC contained any specific
 averment that the caste based abuses were hurled at a place
 within public view. 13. In our considered view, the High Court erred in
 concluding that the incident occurred in public view. A careful
 reading of the complaint makes it evident that the 6 2025 SCC OnLine SC 2730 36 alleged caste-based abuses were uttered inside the
 premises, in the presence of the Appellants and
 Respondent No. 2. Therefore, the essential requirement
 of the offence under Section 3(1)(s) of the SC/ST Act is
 not satisfied." (Emphasis supplied at each instance)

The Apex Court clearly holds in the afore-mentioned judgments that

the allegations under the Act cannot spring in air. It is to be made

in public view or in a public place. Neither of which is present in the

case at hand. Therefore, a pure and simple money transaction

between the parties is sought to be rendered with the colour of

crime and criminal law is being set into motion for the recovery of

money. Therefore, the petition deserves to succeed as, if the

investigation is permitted in the case at hand, it would run foul of

the judgments rendered by the Apex Court quoted supra. 11. For the aforesaid reasons the following: Consequently, I.A.No.1 of 2024 and I.A.No.1 of 2025 also

stand disposed. Sd/- (M.NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE

Bkp
CT:MJ