% 16.08.2024

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/08/2024 at 20:38:01 1. The petitioner in W.P. (C) 8829/2020 is praying for setting aside the
 order dated 16.10.2020 passed by Mr. S.E. Rizwi, Director (Admn.) &
 Supervisory Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Ministry of
 Education, Government of India, wherein, it was inter alia held that the
 amendments made to the bye-laws via a purported resolution dated
 11.04.2015 were valid. Whereas, in W.P. (C) 2570/2021, the petitioner is
 seeking quashing of the election results dated 12.01.2021conducted for the
 Indian Institute of Architects (hereinafter 'IIA') as also the aforesaid order
 dated 16.10.2020 in W.P. (C) 8829/2020. Since both the petitions deal with
 conduction of elections of IIA in accordance with the existing bye-laws, the
 same are being decided by this common order. 2. The petitioners are the members of IIA, which is stated to be the
 national body of Architects consisting of more than 20,000 members
 engaged in promoting the profession of architecture. It has been alleged by
 the petitioners that the election of IIA suffered from an e-voting scam and
 Mr. Rizwi had usurped the power of review to pass the impugned order
 dated 16.10.2020 to conduct the elections through a mechanism which is
 dehors the provisions of bye-laws of IIA. 3. The petitioners are essentially seeking enforcement of the provisions
 enshrined in bye-laws for redressal of their grievance pertaining to the
 alleged irregular conduction of elections of IIA. Various assertions and
 submissions have been made by learned counsel for the petitioner to indicate
 that the respondent-authorities have exceeded in their jurisdiction. 4. However, since the matter relates to the election of IIA, which is
 stated to be a trust, it is imperative to ascertain whether the instant petitions

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/08/2024 at 20:38:01
 would be maintainable. On this aspect, it has been contended by the learned
 counsel for the petitioners that since an officer of respondent-Union of India
 was directed by the Madras High Court to be deputed to conduct elections
 IIA, the disputes emanating from such election would be amenable to writ
 jurisdiction. 5. The tests evolved through judicial pronouncements over the passage
 of time to check the entertainability of disputes pertaining to societies, trusts,
 associations etc. under writ jurisdiction would indicate that the nature of
 relief claimed by the petitioners would be one of the determinative factors to
 sustain the maintainability of the petition. In the case of K.K. Saksena v.
 International Commission on Irrigation & Drainage1, the Supreme Court
 has held that if an organization or body performs a public function, all of its
 decisions cannot be entertained while exercising extraordinary jurisdiction
 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The relevant paragraph of the
 said decision reads as under:- under Article 12 of the Constitution, before issuing any writ,
 particularly writ of mandamus, the Court has to satisfy that action of
 such an authority, which is challenged, is in the domain of public law
 as distinguished from private law." [emphasis supplied] 1 (2015) 4 SCC 670

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/08/2024 at 20:38:01 6. A perusal of the bye-laws of IIA which is sought be enforced by the
 petitioners fails to allude to any function performed by IIA which may be
 said to be done in fulfilment of a public duty being discharged by such body. In Ramakrishna Mission v. Kago Kunya2 , the Supreme Court took a view
 that for a function to be considered as a public function, the activities should
 closely resemble the sovereign functions performed by the State. In the
 present case, the trust in question i.e., IIA could not be said to be
 discharging any public duty which may make it amenable to writ
 jurisdiction. 7. In a case titled as Sushil Kumar v. Central Registrar of Coop Socy
 and Ors.3 , this Court has held that byelaws constitute a contract between the
 society and its members and members inter se. The Court went on to take a
 position that a mere violation of such byelaws would not lead to the
 invocation of writ jurisdiction. The relevant paragraph of the said decision reads as under:- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/08/2024 at 20:38:02
 writ jurisdiction of the Court. This Court also bears in mind the
 principles enunciated by the Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in
 Vijay Behari Srivastava where it was pertinently observed that merely
 because the affairs of a society are controlled by the Registrar that
 would not make that body "State" as contemplated under Article 12 of the Constitution. In S.S. Rana the Supreme Court held that the
 general regulation of a society by statute is merely meant to ensure its
 proper functioning and would not render the activities of that entity as
 being subject to State control. The aforesaid position in law clearly
 emerges from the decision of this Court in Mohinder Singh. It would be
 pertinent to note that both Sushila Devi Bhaskar and S.K. Gambhir, on
 which reliance was placed by Mr. Garg, were dealing with cases where
 the Court had found that the cooperative societies had become
 instruments and vehicles for implementation of State policy and acting
 as an adjunct to the Delhi Development Authority. It was in that
 backdrop that the writ petitions were held to be maintainable." [emphasis supplied] 8. Recently, this Court vide order dated 29.07.2024 in W.P. (C) titled as
 Sumir Dhir & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors., while dealing with a dispute
 pertaining to election of a society, where the petitioners therein were seeking
 enforcement of bye-laws, has held as under:- [emphasis supplied] 9. In view of the aforesaid, reserving the liberty in favour of the
 petitioners to raise their grievances before the appropriate authority, the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/08/2024 at 20:38:02
 instant writ petitions stand dismissed. 10. The Court has not dealt with the controversy on the merits of the case.
 All rights and contentions are left open. PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV, J
 AUGUST 16, 2024
 p'ma

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 22/08/2024 at 20:38:02