420 Penal Code, 1860. For the purpose of
 the present appeal, we would assume that
 the various allegations of fact which have
 been made in the complaint by the
 appellant are correct. Even after making
 that allowance, we find that the complaint
 does not disclose the commission of any
 offence on the part of the respondents
 under Section 420 Penal Code, 1860. There
 is nothing in the complaint to show that the
 respondents had dishonest or fraudulent
 intention at the time the appellant parted
 with Rs. 35.000/- There is also nothing to
 indicate that the respondents induced the
 appellant to pay them Rs. 35,000/- by
 deceiving him. It is further not the case of
 the appellant that a representation was
 made, the respondents knew the same to be 15 false. The fact that the respondents
 subsequently did not abide by their
 commitment that they would show the
 appellant to be the proprietor of Drang
 Transport Corporation and would also
 render accounts to him in the month of
 December might create civil liability on the
 respondents for the offence of cheating." 29. To put it in other words, the case of cheating and
dishonest intention starts with the very inception of
the transaction. But in the case of criminal breach of
trust, a person who comes into possession of the
movable property and receives it legally, but illegally
retains it or converts it to his own use against the
terms of the contract, then the question is, in a case
like this, whether the retention is with dishonest
intention or not, whether the retention involves
criminal breach of trust or only a civil liability would
depend upon the facts of each case. 30. The distinction between mere breach of contract
and the offence of criminal breach of trust and
cheating is a fine one. In case of cheating, the
intention of the accused at the time of inducement
should be looked into which may be judged by a
subsequent conduct, but for this, the subsequent
conduct is not the sole test. Mere breach of contract
cannot give rise to a criminal prosecution for cheating
unless fraudulent or dishonest intention is shown
right from the beginning of the transaction i.e. the time 16 when the offence is said to have been committed.
Therefore, it is this intention, which is the gist of the
offence. Whereas, for the criminal breach of trust, the
property must have been entrusted to the accused or
he must have dominion over it. The property in
respect of which the offence of breach of trust has
been committed must be either the property of some
person other than the accused or the beneficial
interest in or ownership' of it must be of some other
person. The accused must hold that property on trust
of such other person. Although the offence, i.e. the
offence of breach of trust and cheating involve
dishonest intention, yet they are mutually exclusive
and different in basic concept. There is a distinction
between criminal breach of trust and cheating. For
cheating, criminal intention is necessary at the time of
making a false or misleading representation i.e., since
inception. In criminal breach of trust, mere proof of
entrustment is sufficient. Thus, in case of criminal
breach of trust, the offender is lawfully entrusted with
the property, and he dishonestly misappropriated the
same. Whereas, in case of cheating, the offender
fraudulently or dishonestly induces a person by
deceiving him to deliver any property. In such a
situation, both the offences cannot co-exist
simultaneously." 11. The Hon'ble Supreme Court further laid down legal

propositions of law with regard to the applying of Section 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code in the said particular case as follows: 12. This Court also relied a judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 in the case of The State of Kerala v. A. Pareed Pillai and Anr.19 ,

 where it was held as follows: - 13. Similarly, in the case in hand, there is nothing to show that

 the petitioners had dishonest or fraudulent intention at the time

 when obtained loan from the Opposite Party No. 2. It is not disputed

 by the complainant that he had not paid any amount. However,

 complainant raised question about the outstanding loan amount.

 Non-payment of outstanding loan amount, by no stretch of

 imagination, can be called dishonest inducements. It was/is purely a

 non-fulfilment of contract, which definitely comes under civil dispute.

 Simply because of the amounts have not been paid or there are 19 1972 Cri.L.J.1243 19 outstanding will not make it a case of wilful or dishonest inducement

 or deception or criminal breach of trust. 14. In the case of Haridaya Ranjan Prasad Verma and Ors. v.

 State of Bihar and Anr.20 , the Hon'ble Apex Court also held that:- 15. It is not the case of the opposite party no. 2, in the present

 case, that the company was deceived by fraudulent or dishonest

 inducement from the beginning at the time of obtaining loan rather

 admits Petitioners kept making payment irregularly until 30th

 September, 2016. Culpable intention, right from the beginning when

 the promise was made cannot be presumed simply from mere failure 20 (2000) 4 Supreme Court Cases 168 20 of a person to keep up promise subsequently. It depends upon the

intention of the accused at the time of inducement. The subsequent

conduct is not the sole test. The Court must decide on the basis of

the substance of the complaint and not on the basis of mere use of

the expression "cheating" in the complaint. This Court finds that in

the instant case, the petitioners made some payment out of total loan

amount of Rs. 50,00,000/- and Rs. 32,48,861/- is due as alleged by

the complainant as such the dishonest intention of the petitioners

from the very inception of the transaction cannot be presumed. In my

view, neither the offence of cheating punishable under Section 420 of

the Indian Penal Code, 1860 is made out from the written complaint

treated as an FIR nor can I persuade myself to hold that an offence

punishable under Sections 406 / 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860

is made out from the allegations made in the written complaint

treated as an FIR. 16. Upon perusal of the copy of complaint, it further shows that

there was no fraudulent or dishonest inducement or deception by

intentional practice by the petitioners right from the inception of

obtaining loan amount even if subsequent payment has not been

made, that will neither tantamount to deception, fraudulent or

dishonest inducement nor would it amount to deception by 21 intentional means right from the beginning. Therefore, the case either

 under Section 420 or 406 of IPC , in the facts of this case, has not

 been made out. Non-payment of outstanding loan amount cannot be

 called cheating in the facts of this case. 17. In the case of Paramjeet Batra v. State of Uttarakhand21 ,

 the Hon'ble Court recognized that although the inherent powers of a

 High Court under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

 should be exercised sparingly, yet the High Court must not hesitate

 in quashing such criminal proceedings which are essentially of a civil

 nature. This is what was held: (Emphasis supplied) 18. In the light of above observations together with averments

contained in the written complaint, this Court finds ingredients of the

offences alleged by the opposite party no. 2 are missing. Merely

because non-payment of outstanding loan amount does not

constitute offences punishable under Sections 406 / 420 / 120B of the

Indian Penal Code, 1860. The allegation in the complaint does not

spell out any essential ingredients for commission of offence under Sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. The disputes

between the parties are purely civil in nature and criminal proceeding

in such a civil nature case should not be allowed to be continued any

further against the present petitioners. 19. Accordingly, CRR No. 507 of 2017 is allowed. Connected

applications, if any, are also, thus, disposed of. 20. Continuation of the criminal proceeding against the

petitioners will be an abuse of the process of the Court. Accordingly,

this Court would like to invoke its inherent power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 for quashing of the said 23 criminal proceeding. As a result, the criminal proceeding being G.R.

Case No. 1436 of 2016 arising out of Bowbazar Police Station Case

No. 413 dated November 28, 2016 under Sections 406 / 420 / 120B of

the Indian Penal Code, 1860 pending before the Court of the Learned

Chief Metropolitan Magistrate at Calcutta is hereby quashed insofar

as the petitioners are concerned. However, the opposite party no. 2 is

given liberty to realise the outstanding dues of loan and interest

thereof from the petitioner no. 1/company in accordance with law. 21. Let a copy of this Judgment be sent to the Learned Trial

Court for information. 22. Case Diary, if any, is to be returned to the learned counsel

for the State. 23. Interim order, if any, stands vacated. 24. All parties will act on the server copies of this Judgment

uploaded from the official website of this Court. 25. Urgent photostat certified copy of this Judgment, if applied

for, is to be given as expeditiously to the parties on compliance of all

legal formalities. (Ajay Kumar Gupta, J)

P. Adak (P.A.)