Hon. Pankaj Naqvi, J. 1.	The petitioners are the elected corporators, ex-officio corporators, ex-corporators of Nagar Nigam and public spirited persons of the City of Allahabad. In these writ petitions, they have questioned the authority, the manner and the process of increase of the property tax levied on the properties situate within the municipal limits of Allahabad by the Municipal Commissioner, Nagar Nigam, Allahabad for the year 2011-12, under Section 172 of the U.P. Municipal Corporation Act, 1959 (in short 'the Act of 1959'). (The last increase was made in the year 2003-04). They have questioned the adoption of Geographical Information System (GIS) in identifying and calculating the property tax, the fixation of the annual value of the properties for imposition of house tax, and have challenged the enhancement of monthly rates of rent and assessments of house tax by the Municipal Commissioner, Nagar Nigam w.e.f. 1.4.2011, and the orders passed by the State Government dated 21.9.2011, by which the Resolution Nos.340 and 342 passed by the Nagar Nigam, Allahabad resolving to increase the house tax only by 2% from 11% to 13% and to cancel the GIS survey report have been suspended. They have also sought the relief to direct the Nagar Nigam to increase its income by imposing legally permissible tax and fees under the Act of 1959. 2.	In Writ Petition No.1129 of 2011, Shiv Sewak Singh & Ors. v. State of U.P. & Ors., the petitioner nos.1 to 5 are the elected corporators of Nagar Nigam. Their term of 5 years has came to an end in December, 2011, during the pendency of these writ petitions. The Petitioner no.6 is the ex-corporator. They have prayed for writ of certiorari for quashing the order dated 8.7.2011 passed by the Municipal Commissioner, Nagar Nigam, Allahabad by which he has in view of the various resolutions of the Nagar Nigam, with regard to proposed house tax assessment on increasing rates per sq. feet on the basis of GIS and local surveys stayed with immediate effect the increased revised unit area rates applicable w.e.f. June, 2010 and had directed that the unit area rates will continue to be operative on the basis of the previously applicable rates w.e.f. 1.4.2003 on the basis of the informations received by GIS and local surveys. They have also prayed for writ of mandamus commanding the respondents to invite objections from the public at large regarding imposition of new slab of house tax in accordance with the provisions of the Municipal Corporation Act and the Rules made thereunder. 3.	In Writ Petition No.44856 of 2011, Shri Kamlesh Singh, Shri Giri Shankar "Prabhakar" and Shri Chandra Prakash "Manga" claim themselves to be active social and political worker espousing social causes for the benefit of the society and for upholding and promoting the peaceful means of civil liberties and democratic way of life, combating the evils of the society and defending the weaker sections of the society and of women and children. They have prayed for similar reliefs namely for quashing the order dated 8.7.2011 of the Municipal Commissioner, Allahabad and for writ of mandamus directing the respondents to charge house tax on the basis of the method prevailing prior to the passing of the order dated 8.7.2011. 4.	In Writ Petition No.1455 of 2011, Shri Anugrah Narain Singh, Member of the Legislative Assembly from City North Constituency of Allahabad, who has been re-elected to the Legislative Assembly in March, 2012, and is also an ex-officio member of Nagar Nigam, Allahabad has prayed for quashing the order dated 21.9.2011 passed by the Principal Secretary, Urban Development, Lucknow, whereby execution of Resolution No.340 and 342 of the House by Nagar Nigam was prohibited by the State Government. He has also prayed for directions in the nature of mandamus commanding the respondents not to enforce the new assessment of general tax as per GIS survey till the system is implemented fully in accordance with the guidelines of the Central Government. 5.	We have heard Shri Umesh Narain Sharma, Senior Advocate assisted by Shri Chandan Sharma for the petitioners in Writ Petition Nos.1129 of 2011 and 1455 of 2011, and Shri K.N. Tripathi, Sr. Advocate assisted by Shri Neeraj Tripathi in Writ Petition No.44856 of 2011. Learned Standing Counsel appears for the State respondents. Shri Ravi Kant, Sr. Advocate assisted by Shri S.D. Kautilya appears for the Municipal Commissioner, Nagar Nigam, Allahabad. 6. The U.P. Municipal Corporation Act, 1959 provides for corporation authorities under Section 5 for carrying out the provisions of the Act for each city to be (a) Corporation; (aa) the Ward Committees; (b) An Executive Committee of the Corporation; (bb) the Mayor; (c) the Development Committee of the Corporation; (d) A Municipal Commissioner and an Additional Municipal Commissioner appointed by the Corporation under the Act and (e) in the event the Corporation establishes or acquires electricity supply or public transport undertaking or other public utility services, such other Committees as the Corporation may with the previous sanction of the State Government establish with respect thereto. The Corporation under Section 6 consists of a Mayor and (a) Corporators, whose number shall be fixed by the State Government but which shall not be less than 60 or more than 110, in addition to the nominated members; (b) nominated members, who shall be nominated by the State Government from amongst persons having special knowledge or experience in municipal administration and which shall not be less than 5 and more than 10; (c) ex-officio members comprising of the members of the house of the people and State Legislative Assembly representing constituencies comprising whole or part of city; (d) the ex-officio members, who are members of the Council of States and the State Legislative Council and who are registered as electors in the city and (e) the Chairpersons of the Committees, if any, established under Clause (e) of Section 5 , if they are not members of the Corporation. Out of these the Mayor and the Corporators are chosen by direct elections form the wards. 7.	The Corporation under Section 122 of the Act of 1959 can require the Municipal Commissioner to produce the documents and furnish returns and reports etc. Such powers under Section 123 are subject to sanction by Corporation of the necessary expenditure. Whereas elected body consisting of Mayor, elected corporators, nominated ex-officio member and Chairperson of the Committee is the legislative wing of the Corporation, the office of the Municipal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Tax Superintendent and others is the executive wing of the Corporation. 8. Section 172 of the Act provides for the taxes, which the Corporation is authorised to impose under the Act. Section 199 to Section 204 of the Act provides for the manner in which a tax is imposed by the Municipal Corporation. Section 172 to 181 ; Sections 199 to Section 204 and Sections 207 to 227 of the Act of 1959, relevant to decide the issues raised in these writ petitions are quoted as below:- [(c) a tax on helicopters or any other type of planes, when they land on or take off from the helipads, airports, airsteps (sic airstrip) or places made for this purpose situated within the Corporation. The tax so imposed shall be paid by the airport authority or person or persons, or managers, or director or institution or department or agency involved in the maintenance, management and supervision of the airport, airstrip, helipad or the place as the case may be; (d) a tax on trades and professions; (e) a tax on deeds of transfer of immovable property situated within the city; (f) a tax on vacant land situated within the city;]
 

 
(2) In addition to the taxes specified in sub-section (1) the Corporation may for the purposes of this Act and subject to the provisions thereof impose any of the following taxes, namely, - [(a) a tax on callings and on holding a public or private appointment; (b) [* * *] (c) [* * *] (d) [* * *] (e) a tax on dogs kept within the City; (f) a betterment tax; (g) [* * *] (h) a tax on advertisements not being advertisements published in newspapers; (i) a theatre tax; and (j) [* * *]
 
[* * *]
 

 
(3) The Corporation taxes shall be assessed and levied in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules and bye-laws framed thereunder. (4) Nothing in this section shall authorize the imposition of any tax which the State Legislature has no power to impose in the State under the Constitution of India: Provided that the aggregate of the property taxes shall in no case be less than 22 percent and not more than 32 per cent of the annual value of the building or land or both assessed to such taxes, so however, that the general tax shall not be less than 10 per cent and not more than 15 per cent, the water tax shall not be less than 7.5 per cent and not more than 12.5 per cent, the drainage tax shall not be less than 2.5 per cent and not more than 5 per cent and the conservancy tax shall not be more than 2 per cent of the annual value. 174. Definition of "annual value". - [(1)] "Annual value" means - [(a) in the case of railway stations, colleges, schools, hostels, factories, commercial buildings, and other non-residential buildings, a proportion not below 5 per cent, to be fixed by rule made in this behalf of the sum obtained by adding the estimated present cost of erecting the building less depreciation at a rate to be fixed by rules, to the estimated value of the land appurtenant thereto; and] [(b) in the case of a building or land not falling within the provisions of clause (a), twelve times the value arrived at on multiplying the carpet area of the building, or the area of the land, by the applicable minimum monthly rate of rent per square foot of the carpet area in the case of building or the applicable minimum monthly rate of rent per square foot of the area in the case of land, as the case may be, and for this purpose the minimum monthly rate of rent per square foot shall be such as may be fixed once in every two years by the Municipal Commissioner on the basis of the location of the building or the land, nature of the construction of the building, the circle rate fixed by the Collector for the purposes of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 and the current minimum rate of rent in the area for such building or land and such other factors, and in such manner, as may be prescribed: Explanation II.-The standard rent, the agreed rent or the reasonable annual rent of a building for the purposes of the Uttar Pradesh Urban Buildings (Regulation of Letting, Rent and Eviction) Act, 1972 shall not be taken into account while calculating the annual value of that building.]
 

 
[(2) Where the Corporation so resolves, the annual value for the purpose of assessment of property taxes shall - (a) in the case of land and owner-occupied residential building which is not more than ten years old, be deemed to be 25 per cent less and if it is more than ten years but not more than twenty years old, be deemed to be 32.5 per cent less, and if it is more than twenty years old, be deemed to be 40 per cent less than the annual value determined under clause (b) of subsection (1); and (b) in the case of residential building let on rent, which is not more than ten years old, be deemed to be 25 per cent more, and if it is more than ten years but not more than twenty years old, be deemed to be 12.5 percent more than the annual value determined under clause (b) of subsection (1), and if it is more than twenty years old, be deemed to be equal to the annual value determined under clause (b) of sub-section (1).]
 

 
[175. [Restrictions on imposition of water tax] - The imposition of a tax under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 173 shall be subject to the restriction that the tax shall not be imposed - (i) on any land exclusively for agricultural purposes, unless the water is supplied by the Corporation for such purposes; or (ii) on a plot of land or building the annual value whereof does not exceed rupees three hundred and sixty and to which no water is supplied by the Corporation; or (iii) on any plot or building, no part of which is within the radius prescribed for the City, from the nearest stand-pipe or other waterworks whereat water is made available to the public by the Corporation. Explanation. - For the purposes of this section - (a) ''building' shall include the compound, if any, thereof, and, where there are several buildings in a common compound, all such buildings, and the common compound; (b) ''a plot of land' means any piece of land held by a single occupier, or held in common by several co-occupiers, whereof no one portion is entirely separated from any other portion by the land of another occupier or of other occupiers or by public property.] 176. Pooling of income from waterworks, drainage works, etc. - The proceeds of the water, drainage and conservancy taxes and all other incomes derived from waterworks, drainage works, drains and excrementitious and polluted matter collected from privies, urinals and cesspools and from disposal of such matters and income from sullage farms shall be pooled together and shall be defrayed on purposes connected with the construction, maintenance, extension or improvement of such waterworks and drainage works and with the collection, removal and disposal of excrementitious and polluted matter from privies, urinals and cesspools including maintenance of sullage farms. 177. General tax on what premises to be levied. - The general tax shall be levied in respect of all buildings and lands in the City except -- (a) buildings and lands solely used for purposes connected with the disposal of the dead; (b) buildings and lands or portions thereof solely occupied and used for public worship or for a charitable purpose; [(c) building solely used as schools and intermediate colleges whether aided by the State Government or not, fields, farms and gardens of Government aided institutes of research and development, playgrounds of Government aided or unaided recognised educational institutions and sports stadium;] (d) ancient monuments as defined in the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 , subject to any direction of the State Government in respect of any such monument; [(e) any building or land the annual value of which is rupees three hundred and sixty or less, provided that the owner thereof does not own any other building or land in the same city 14[and provided further that in the case of a building situated within thirty metres from the main or branch sewer line of the Corporation it has a latrine with arrangements for flushing]; [* * *] (f) buildings and lands vesting in the Union of India except where provisions of clause (2) of Article 285 of the Constitution of India apply; [(g) any owner-occupied residential building constructed on a plot of land measuring thirty square metres, or having a carpet area up to fifteen square metres provided that the owner thereof does not own any other building in the city; and
 

 
[(h) residential buildings occupied by the owner of building, which is located in such area which has been included in the limit of Corporation within five years or the facilities of roads, drinking water and street light provided in the area, whichever is earlier.]] 178. Remission by reason of non-occupation. - (l) When a building or land has remained vacant and unproductive of rent for ninety or more consecutive days during any year, the Municipal Commissioner shall remit or refund so much of each of the property taxes of that year as may be proportionate to the number of days that the said building or land has remained vacant and unproductive of rent. (2) When a building consists of two or more separate tenements and one or more such tenements has remained vacant and unproductive of rent during any such period as aforesaid, the Municipal Commissioner may remit or refund such portion (if any) of each tax or instalment as may be prescribed: 179. Primary responsibility for certain property taxes on annual value. - - (1) Except where otherwise prescribed, every tax (other than a drainage tax or a conservancy tax) on the annual value of buildings or lands shall be leviable primarily from the actual occupier of the property upon which the tax is assessed, if he is the owner of the buildings or lands or holds them on a building or other lease from the Central or the State Government or from the Corporation, or on a building lease from any person. (2) In any other case the tax shall be primarily leviable as follows, namely, - (a) if the property is let from the lessor; (b) if the property is sublet from the superior lessor; (c) if the property is unlet from the person in whom the right to let the same vests. [(d) if the property is let in pursuance of an order under the Uttar Pradesh Urban Buildings (Regulations of Letting, Rent and ''Eviction) Act, 1972, from the tenant.]
 

 
(3) On failure to recover any sum due on account of such tax from the person primarily liable, the Municipal Commissioner may recover from the occupier of any part of the buildings or lands in respect of which it is due that portion thereof which bears to the whole amount due the same ratio as the rent annually payable by such occupier bears to the aggregate amount of rent payable in respect of the whole of the said building or lands, or to the aggregate amount of the letting value thereof in the authenticated assessment list. (4) An occupier who makes any payment for which he is not primarily liable under the foregoing provisions shall, in the absence of any contract to the contrary, be entitled to be reimbursed by the person primarily liable. 180. Liability for payment of other such taxes. - (1) A drainage tax, or a conservancy tax on the annual value of buildings or lands shall be levied from the actual occupier of the property upon which the taxes are assessed: 181. Property taxes to be a first charge on premises on which they are assessed. - (1) Property taxes due under this Act in respect of any building or land shall, subject to the prior payment of the land revenue, if any, due to the State Government thereupon, be a first charge, in the case of any building or land held immediately from the State, upon the interest in such building or land of the person liable for such taxes and upon the movable property, if any, found within or upon such building or land and belonging to such person; and, in the case of any other building or land, upon the said building or land and belonging to the person liable for such taxes. Explanation - The term "property taxes" in this section shall be deemed to include any charges payable for water supplied to any premises and the costs of recovery of property taxes as specified in the rules. (2) In any decree in a suit for the enforcement of the charge created by subsection (1), the Court may order the payment to the Corporation of interest on the sum found to be due at such rate as the Court deems reasonable from the date of the institution of the suit until realization, and such interest and the cost of enforcing the said charge, including the costs of the suit and the cost of bringing the premises or movable property in question to sale under the decree, shall, subject as aforesaid, be a first charge on such premises and movable property along with the amount found to be due, and the Court may direct payment thereof to be made to the Corporation out of the sale proceeds. 199. Framing of preliminary proposals.-- (1) When a Corporation desires to impose a tax specified in Sub-section (2) of Section 172 it shall by resolution direct the Executive committee to frame proposals specifying-- (a) the tax, being one of the taxes described in Sub-section (2) of Section 172 which it desires to impose; (b) the persons or class of persons to be made liable, and the description of property or other taxable thing or circumstances in respect of which they are to be made liable, except where and in so far as any class or description is already sufficiently defined under Clause (a) or by this Act; (c) the amount or rate leviable from each such person or class of persons; (d) Any other matter referred to in Section 219 which the State Government requires by rule to be specified. (2) Upon a resolution being passed under Sub-section (1) the Executive Committee shall frame the proposals and also prepare a draft of the rules which it desires the State Government to make in respect of the matters referred to in Section 219 . (3) The Executive Committee shall, thereafter, publish in the manner prescribed by rule the proposals framed under Sub-section (1) and the draft rules framed under Sub-section (2) alongwith a notice in the form to be prescribed by rule. 200. Procedure subsequent to framing proposals--(1) Any inhabitant of the city may, within two weeks from the publication of the said notice, submit to the Corporation an objection in writing to all or any of the proposals framed under the preceding section, and the Corporation shall take any objection so submitted into consideration and pass orders thereon by special resolution. (2) If the Corporation decides to modify the proposals of the Executive Committee, or any of them the "Municipal Commissioner shall publish the modified proposals and, if necessary, revised draft rules along with a notice indicating that the proposals and rules ( if any) are in modification of proposals and rules previously published for objection. (3) Any objection which may be received to the modified proposals shall be dealt with in the manner prescribed in Sub-section (1). (4)When the Corporation has finally settled its proposals, the "Municipal Commissioner shall submit them along with the objections (if any) made in connection therewith to the State Government. 201. Power of State Government to reject, sanction or modify proposal- Upon receipt of the proposals and objection under the preceding section the State Government may either refuse to sanction the proposals or return them to the Corporation for further consideration or sanction them without modification or with such modification not involving an increase of the amount to be imposed, as it seems fit. 202. Resolution of Corporation directing imposition of taxes:- (1) When the proposals have been sanctioned by the State Government, the State Government, after taking into consideration the draft rules submitted by the Corporation, shall proceed forthwith to make such rules in respect of the tax as far the time bing it considers necessary. (2) When the rules have been made the order of sanction and a copy of the rules shall be sent to the Corporation, and thereupon the Corporation shall by special resolution direct the imposition of the tax with effect from a date to be specified in the resolution. 203. Imposition.--(1) A copy of resolution passed under Section 202 shall be submitted to the State Government. (2) Upon receipt of the copy of the resolution the State Government shall notify in the official Gazette, the imposition of the tax from the appointed date, and the imposition of tax shall in all cases be subject to the condition that it has been so notified. (3)A notification of the imposition of a tax under Sub-section (2) shall be conclusive proof that the tax has been imposed in accordance with the provisions of this Act. 204. Procedure for altering taxes.-The procedure for abolishing a tax, or for altering a tax in respect of the matters specified in Clauses (b) and (C) of Sub-section (1) of Section 199 shall, so far as may be, be the procedure prescribed by Sections 199 to 202 for the imposition of a tax. 207. Preparation of assessment list. - [The Municipal Commissioner shall cause areawise rental rates and an assessment list in the city or part thereof to be prepared from time to time, in accordance with the manner prescribed in the Rules.]
 

 
[207-A. Option to deposit self-assessment property tax. - Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, the owner or occupier primarily liable for payment of tax in respect of a residential building may himself assess every year his liability regarding the amount of property tax payable by him and in doing so he may himself determine the annual value of the building in accordance with the provisions of clause (b) of Section 174 , and deposit the property tax so assessed by him in such manner, together with a statement of such self-assessment in such form, as may be prescribed.]
 

 
[207-B. Submission of the details of houses or lands for assessment of tax. - (1) For the purposes of annual rental value, the owner or the occupier of every house or land shall submit a property return up to a date as may be prescribed. (2) Any person failing to submit the return referred to in sub-section (1) without proper reasons shall be liable to pay penalty as may be prescribed. (3) The penalty referred to in sub-section (2) may be cpmpounded by the Municipal Commissioner.] 208. Publication of list. -[The Municipal Commissioner shall publish the list prepared under Section 207 in accordance with the manner prescribed in the rules.]
 

 
[209. Objections on proposed rates and list. - (1) The Municipal Commissioner or an officer authorised by him in this behalf shall dispose of the objections in accordance with the manners prescribed in the rules.]
 

 
[210. Authentication and custody of list. - [(1) The Municipal Commissioner or an officer authorised by him in this behalf, shall authenticate by his signature the areawise rental rates and the assessment list of the city or any part thereof, as the case may be.]
 

 
(2) Every list so authenticated shall be deposited in the office of the Corporation. (3) As soon as the list for the entire City is so deposited it shall be declared by public notice to be open for inspection.] 211. Revision and duration of list. - (1) A new assessment list shall ordinarily be prepared in the manner prescribed by Sections 207 to 210 once in every 31[two] years. (2) Subject to any alteration or amendment made under Section 213 and to the result of any appeal under Section 472 every valuation and assessment entered in a valuation list shall be valid from the date on which the list takes effect 32[in the City or part thereof and until the first day of the month next following the completion of the new list]: 212. Conclusiveness of entries in list. - An entry in an assessment list shall be conclusive proof - (a) for any purpose connected with a tax to which the list refers, of the amount leviable in respect of any building or land during the period to which the list relates, and (b) for the purpose of assessing any other Corporation tax, of the annual value of any building or land during the said period. 213. Amendment and alteration of list. - [The Municipal Commissioner or an officer authorised by him in this behalf] may at any time alter or amend the assessment list - (a) by entering therein the name of any person or any property which ought to have been entered or any property which has become liable to taxation after the authentication of the assessment list; or (b) by substituting therein for the name of the owner or occupier of any property the name of any other person who has succeeded by transfer or otherwise to the ownership or occupation of the property; or (c) by enhancing the valuation of, or assessment on, any property which [has become incorrectly valued or assessed or which, by reason of fraud, misrepresentation or mistake, has been incorrectly valued or
 
assessed]; or (d) by revaluing or re-assessing any property the value of which has been increased by additions or alterations to buildings; or (e) where the percentage on the annual value at which any tax is to be levied has been altered by the Corporation under the provisions 36[of this Act] by making a corresponding alteration in the amount of the tax payable in each case; or (f) by reducing upon the application of the owner or on satisfactory evidence that the owner is untraceable and the need for reduction established, upon its own initiative, the valuation of any building which has been wholly or partly demolished or destroyed; or (g) by correcting any clerical, arithmetical or other apparent error: [214. Obligation to supply informations for purpose of amendment. - (1) When any building is constructed or reconstructed or any addition is made thereto by an owner or occupier and the covered area exceeds by more than 25 per cent then it shall be compulsory for him to submit its information to the Municipal Commissioner within sixty days of the date of completion or date of occupation whichever is earlier, in the prescribed form. (2) The owners or occupiers, who do not submit information referred to in subsection (1) without proper reasons, shall be liable to be punished with fine which may extend to an amount equal to double of the assessed general tax or Rs. 500 per day of the delay whichever is less. (3) The Municipal Commissioner may compound the proposed penalty under sub-section (2).] 215. Obligation to give notice of re-occupation. - The owner of a building or land for which a remission or refund of the tax has been given under Section 178 shall give notice of the re-occupation of such building or land within fifteen days of such re-occupation. 216. Consolidation of taxes. - For the purpose of assessing, levying or collecting, but not for the purpose of imposing or granting exemption from, the property taxes described in Section 173 a Corporation may consolidate any two or more of such taxes: 217. Deduction required by exemptions. - (l) In assessing a consolidated tax effect shall be given to any partial or total exemption from any single tax comprised therein. (2) Such effect shall be given (a) in the case of partial exemption, by means of the deduction from the total amount of the consolidated tax which would otherwise be leviable or assessable in respect of any buildings, or lands or both, to which the exemption applies, of a proportionate part, corresponding to the exemption, of the amount which might otherwise have been assessed on account of the single tax, and (b) in the case of a total exemption, by means of the deduction from such total amount of the whole amount assessed on account of the single tax. 218. Summary proceedings may be taken against persons about to leave the City. - (1) If any sum recoverable under the provisions of this Chapter is due or is about to become due from any person, and if the Municipal Commissioner shall have reason to believe that such person is about to leave the limits of the City the Municipal Commissioner may direct the immediate payment by such person of such sum and cause a bill for the same to be presented. (2) If, on presentation of such bill, the said person does not forthwith pay the said sum or does not furnish security to the satisfaction of the Municipal Commissioner, the amount shall be levied by distress and sale of his movable property or by attachment and sale of his immovable property in the manner specified in Chapter XXI except that it shall not be necessary to serve upon him any notice of demand and the Municipal Commissioner's warrant for distress and sale may be issued and executed without any delay. 219. Rules as to assessment, collection and other matters. - The following matters shall be regulated and governed by rules except in so far as provision therefor is made by this Act, namely - (a) the assessment, collection or composition of taxes, and, [* * *] 42; (b) the prevention of evasion of taxes; (c) the system on which refunds shall be allowed and paid; (d) the fees for notices demanding payments on account of a tax and for the execution of warrants of distress; (e) the rates to be charged for maintaining livestock distrained; and (f) any other matters relating to taxes in respect of which this Act makes no provision or insufficient provision and provision is, in the opinion of the State Government, necessary. 220. Composition. - (1) Subject to the provisions of any rule, a Corporation may, by a special resolution confirmed by the State Government, provide that all or any persons may be allowed to compound for a tax. (2) Every sum due by reason of the composition of a tax under sub-section (1) shall be recoverable in the manner provided by Chapter XXI. 221. Exemption.- (1) A Corporation may exempt, for a period not exceeding one year, from the payment of a tax, or any portion of a tax imposed under this Act, any person who is in its opinion, by reason of poverty unable to pay the same, and may renew such exemption as often as it deems necessary. (2) A Corporation may, by a special resolution confirmed by the State Government, exempt from the payment of a tax, or any portion of a tax, imposed under this Act, any person or class of persons or any property or description of property. (3) The State Government may, by order, exempt from the payment of a tax, or any portion of a tax, imposed under this Act, any person or class of persons or any property or description of property 43[for such period as may be specified in the order]. [221-A. Interest payable by owner or occupier. - (1) Where the owner or occupier primarily liable for payment of tax in respect of any premises has not paid by the date fixed by the Corporation in this behalf the tax or a part of the tax payable by him under this Act, simple interest at the rate of twelve per cent per annum from the date fixed for payment of tax up to the date of payment shall be payable by him upon the amount that has remained unpaid. (2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), where the owner or occupier of any premises has paid tax under Section 207-A on the basis of his own assessment and the tax so paid is found by the Corporation to be less than the amount of tax payable by him, simple interest at the rate of twelve per cent per annum upon the amount by which the tax so paid falls short of the tax which is found to be payable, shall be payable by him from the date fixed by the Corporation for payment of tax up to the date the amount of such difference is paid. 221-B. Statement of carpet area and area. - (1) Every owner or occupier primarily liable for payment of tax in respect of any premises shall submit to the Corporation a statement in respect of the carpet area of the building, or in respect of the area of the land, as the case may be, in such form and at such times, as may be prescribed in this behalf. (2) If the Corporation is, on an enquiry conducted in this behalf in such manner as may be prescribed, satisfied that the statement submitted under sub-section (1) is factually incorrect in as much as any part of the carpet area of building or any part of the area of the land, as the case may be, has been concealed, the Corporation may impose a penalty not exceeding one thousand rupees on the defaulter in such manner as may be prescribed in this behalf.] 222. Obligation to disclose liability. - (1) The Corporation may by written communication call upon an inhabitant of the City to furnish such information as may be necessary in order to ascertain - (a) whether such inhabitant is liable to pay a tax imposed under this Act; (b) at what amount he should be assessed; (c) the annual value of the building or land which he occupied and the name and address of the owner. (2) If an inhabitant so called upon to furnish information omits to furnish it or furnishes information which is untrue, he shall be liable upon conviction to a fine which may extend to five hundred rupees. 223. Powers of discovery. - The Municipal Commissioner or any other officer or servant of the Corporation authorised in this behalf may enter, inspect and measure a building for the purposes of valuation, or enter and inspect a stable, coach house or other place wherein, there is reason to believe that there is a vehicle or animal liable to taxation under this Act and the provisions of Sections 560 , 562 and 563 shall apply to such inspections. 224. Savings. - No assessment list or other list, notice, bill or other such document specifying, or purporting to specify, with reference to any tax, charge, rent or fee, any person, property, thing or circumstances shall be invalid by reason only of the mistake in the name, residence, place of business or occupation of the person, or in the description of the property, thing or circumstances, or by reason of any more clerical error or defect of form and it shall be sufficient that the person, property, thing or circumstance is described sufficiently for the purpose of identification, and it shall not be necessary to name the owner or occupier of any property liable in respect of a tax. 225. Any tax imposable under this Act may be increased or newly imposed by way of imposing supplementary taxation. - Whenever the Corporation determines to have recourse to supplementary taxation in any financial year, it shall do so by increasing, for the unexpired portion of the said year, the rates at which any tax imposable under this Act is being levied, subject to the limit and conditions for such tax prescribed in this Act or in the orders or sanction of the State Government or by levying, with due sanction, a tax imposable under this Act but not being levied at the time being. 226. Bar to jurisdiction of Civil and Criminal Courts in matters of taxation. - No objection shall be taken to a valuation or assessment nor shall the liability of a person to be assessed or taxed be questioned in any other manner or before any other authority than is provided in this Act. 227. Power to make rules. - (1) The State Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Chapter. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may provide for - (a) matters referred to in Section 219 ; (b) maintenance and inspection of register regarding taxes on vehicle, boat and animal; (c) [* * *]45 (d) [* * *]46 (e) advance payment of taxes; (f) summary disposal of objections to distress and attachment; (g) the conditions on which exemptions and refunds of taxes shall be allowed." 9.	The U.P. Municipal Corporation Property Tax Rules, 2000 provides for the procedural part of the imposition, calculation and realisation of the property tax by the Municipal Corporation. 10.	The property tax in the city of Allahabad were last revised in the year 2003 and have been paid by the citizens of Allahabad, who own properties, without any protest and subject to objections on individual assessments and appeal provided in Section 472 of the Act of 1959. 11.	In the 2001 census out of total 1027 million people living in India approximately 28% or 285 million people were reported to be living in urban area. As a result of liberalisation policy adopted by the Government of India, the share of the urban population was projected to increase to about 40% of the total population by the year 2021. By the year 2011 urban areas were projected to contribute about 65% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). It was felt by Government of India that this higher productivity is contingent upon the availability and quality of infrastructure services. Urban economic activities are depending upon the infrastructure such as power, telecom, roads, water supply, and mass transportation coupled with civil infrastructure such as sanitation and solid waste management. 12.	The 74th Constitutional Amendment Act envisages the model municipal law with potential for further reform oriented steps in order to meet the development objectives, the need for National- Level Reform-Link Investments the need for sustainable infrastructure development and the need for efficiency enhancement, which includes the need to take measures to enhance efficiency in urban service deliveries. The Jawahar Lal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) imposes to encourage reforms and was conceived for a National Common Minimum Programme of the Government of India giving higher priority to the development and expansion of physical infrastructure, comprehensive programme of Urban Renewal and expansion of social housing in town and cities paying attention to the needs of slum dwellers, continue to achieving the millennium development rules and the need for a mission led initiative. The objectives, scope, strategy, duration, and expected outcomes of the JNNURM are summarised in the overview of the mission document as follows:- (f ) Special focus on urban renewal programme for the old city areas to reduce congestion; and (g) Provision of basic services to the urban poor including security of tenure at affordable prices, improved housing, water supply and sanitation, and ensuring delivery of other existing universal services of the government for education, health and social security. 3. Scope of the Mission
 
The Mission shall comprise two Sub- Missions, namely: 4. Strategy of the Mission
 

 
The objectives of the Mission shall be met through the adoption of the following strategy: 5. Duration of the Mission
 

 
The duration of the Mission would be seven years beginning from the year 2005-06. Evaluation of the experience of implementation of the Mission would be undertaken before the commencement of Eleventh Five Year Plan and if necessary, the program calibrated suitably. 6. Expected Outcomes of the JNNURM
 

 
On completion of the Mission period, it is expected that ULBs and parastatal agencies will have achieved the following: 13.	The city of Allahabad is an eligible city for receiving assistance under JNNURM as its population is of more than 4 million people as per 2001 census. The sectors and projects eligible for assistance under the Sub-Mission Directorate for Urban Infrastructure and Governance, as provided in the overview is as follows:- 14.	One of the main objectives of the Constitutional 74th Amendment is to make urban local bodies efficient units of self-governance. The amendments are provided to become autonomous and to determine more on their own resources. The overview of JNNURM projects property tax to be the single most important taxes are not source available to the urban local bodies and encourages to show stock increase to achieve the objectives. It proposes reforms of property tax systems. The guidelines emphasised the need for proper mapping of properties using GIS system so that ULB is able to have full record of properties in the city and to bring them under the tax net; make the system capable of self-assessment, which is formula driven and where the property owner can calculate the tax due and for improving collections to achieve at least 85% of demand. The objective of the reform as provided in the Overview of JNNURM Mission is to:- 15.	The rationale for the reform to strengthen the financial autonomy of the local body is provided in the overview as follows:- Capital Value Basis: In many Municipal Acts there is an alternative provision for assessment of properties (particularly those self occupied) on a capital value basis. The annual value is arrived at on the basis of estimated market value of land and cost of construction at the time of construction or acquisition. ARV restricted by Judicial Pronouncements: Over the last few decades a series of judgments of the Supreme Court have given a severe setback to the revenue aspirations of municipal bodies, since they are required to assess annual value for the levy of property tax on the basis of "fair rent" as determined under the relevant Rent Control Act , irrespective of the actual rent received, or whether a fair rent has been determined by a Rent Control Court or not. Even in the cases where the municipal law provided for a non-obstante clause, the Court ruled that the municipal authorities should not consider the actual rent as the only yardstick. It has been held that reasonable determination of rent by the municipal authorities needs application of mind, keeping in mind all relevant factors and circumstances. This immediately leads to a scope for subjective assessment and discretion at the level of the assessing officer, as well as subjective interpretation by the appellate authority. Other problems with the Rental based system: Besides the major issue above there are other problems with the ARV system: 16.	It is further provided in the overview document that the reforms in the property tax system should cover (a) Rate and Base Structure; (b) Valuation and Assessment Systems; (c) Tax Administration and (d) Citizen Interface Mechanisms. The rate and base structure for various properties are unrealistic, low and static, which are increased from year to year reaching a very high level and which result into residence on the part of citizens. Generally one month's rent as provided tax is proposed to be treated as reasonable with lower and higher limits for the rates of tax from 5% to 20% and with freedom to adjust the rate without government intervention, so that the yield is sufficient to cover the cost of providing the basic urban services. The overview document proposed a flat rate and alternatively progressive sliding scale for property having higher annual value bearing a higher rate of tax with clear distinction between the user category namely residential, institutional and commercial and rationale exemptions for places of worship, agricultural land and charitable institutions. Even when the properties are exempt from tax, the service user charge may be levied to cover the cost of certain basic services such as street cleaning, solid waste management, parking etc. The valuation and assessment provided in the overview document is as follows:- 17.	The JNNURM overview document also provides for improvement in discovery and determination of property ownership, property identification code, GIS, tax mapping and computerisation, onus for assessment, suppression of information or filling of wrong information, payment of tax, indexation, agency for administration of tax, monitoring and enforcement. The topics of GIS, tax mapping and computerisation and onus for assessment relevant for the purposes of these writ petitions are quoted as below:- 18.	The tax mapping is to be covered by GIS mapping and field survey, targettable, achieve, year to year and the cumulative in the reform period, providing for the number of properties, covered area, ward wise and user category wise. 19. In Municipal Committee, Patiala vs. Model Town Residents Association and others (Civil Appeals No. 684 of 2003) decided on 1.8.2007 the Supreme Court considered the Punjab Amending Act 11 of 1994, substituting the definitions of 'annual value' under Section 3 (1) (b) and 'market value' under Section 3 (8-aa) in the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 , which were held by the Punjab & Haryana High Court to be discriminatory and unconstitutional. The discussion on the concept of municipal taxation relevant for the purpose of this case in paragraphs-9, 10 and 11 of the judgment is quoted as below:- 20.	The word 'rate' means a tax for local purposes imposed by local authorities. The basis of the tax is the annual value of the land, and building on which it is imposed. The annual value is arrived at by three ways, namely, (i) actual rent fetched by the land or building where it is actually let; (ii) where it is not let, rent based on hypothetical tenancy, particularly in the case of buildings; and (iii) where either of these two methods is not available, by valuation based on capital value from which annual value has to be derived by applying a suitable percentage, which may not be the same for lands and buildings. 21. In the Act of 1959, with which we are concerned, the property tax is imposed as a corporation tax under Section 172 (a) after following the procedure laid down from Sections 199 to 223, namely of framing of preliminary proposals, consideration of objections, sanction of the proposals by the State Government, resolution of the corporation directing imposition of taxes and the imposition thereof. There is no dispute on the levy of property tax. The petitioners have confined their arguments to the method, and manner of imposition of property tax. 22. Section 173 of the Act provides for levy of property taxes subject to limitations and conditions to be levied on buildings and lands in the city and these include (a) a general tax on a graduated scale; (b) a water tax where water is supplied by the Corporation; (c) drainage tax in areas provided with sewer system by the Corporation and (d) a conservancy tax in which the Corporation undertakes the collection, removal and disposal of excrementitious and polluted matter from privies, urinals and cesspools. Under sub-section (2) it is provided that these taxes shall be levied on the annual value of buildings or land as the case may be. The proviso to sub-section (2) provides that aggregate of the property taxes shall not be less then 22 per cent and shall not be more than 32 per cent of the annual value of the building or land or both assessed to such taxes, so however, that the general tax shall not be less than 10 per cent and not more than 15 per cent, the water tax shall not be less than 7.5 per cent and not more than 12.5 per cent, and the drainage tax to be not less than 2.5 per cent and not more than 5 per cent and the conservancy tax shall not be more than 2 per cent of the annual value. 23.	The annual value is defined under Section 174 of the Act separately for railway stations, colleges, schools, hostels, factories, commercial buildings, in clause (a) to be not below 5 per cent to be fixed by rule of the sum obtained by adding the estimated present cost of erecting the building less depreciation at a rate to be fixed by rules, to the estimated value of the land appurtenant thereof. In the second category, in clause (b) in case of a building or land which do not fall in clause (a), twelve times the value arrived at on multiplying the carpet area of the building, or the area of the land, by the applicable minimum monthly rate of rent per square foot of the carpet area in the case of building or the applicable minimum monthly rate of rent per square foot of the area in the case of land, as the case may be and for this purpose the minimum monthly rate of rent per square foot is provided to be such as may be fixed once in every two years by the Municipal Commissioner on the basis of the location of the building or the land, nature of the construction of the building, the circle rate fixed by the Collector for the purposes of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 and the current minimum rate of rent in the area for such building or land and such other factors, and in such manner, as may be prescribed. 24.	Explanation-1 to Section 174 (1), provides that for the purpose of calculation of annual value, the carpet area shall be calculated for full measurement of internal dimension of rooms and covered verandah, 50 per cent measurement of internal dimension of balcony, corridor, kitchen and store and one-fourth measurement of internal dimension of garage. Clause (v) of Explanation-I excludes the area covered by bathroom, latrines, portico and staircase to form part of the carpet area. Explanation-II provides that the standard rent, or the agreed rent or the reasonable annual rent of a building for the purposes of the Uttar Pradesh Urban Buildings (Regulation of Letting, Rent and Eviction) Act, 1972 , shall not be taken into account while calculating the annual value of that building. Sub-section (2) of Section 174 defining annual value provides that where the Corporation so resolves, (this depends upon the resolution passed by the Corporation), the annual value for the purposes of assessment of property taxes shall in the case of land and owner-occupied residential building in clause (a) which is not more than ten years old, be deemed to be 25 per cent less and if it is more than ten years but not more than twenty years old, be deemed to be 32.5 per cent less, and if it is more than twenty years old, be deemed to be 40 per cent less than the annual value determined under clause (b) of sub-section (1); and in clause (b) in case of residential building let on rent, which is not more than ten years old be deemed to be 25 per cent more, and if it is more then ten years but not more than twenty years old, be deemed to be 12.5 per cent more than the annual value determined under clause (b) of sub-section (1), and if it is more than twenty years old, be deemed to be equal to the annual value determined under clause (b) of sub-section (1). 25. The Act of 1959 expressly excludes the actual rent method, whether it is standard rent, agreed rent or reasonable rent and also excludes the rent based on hypothetical tenancy. It has adopted the valuation based on capital value from which the annual value is to be derived in case of railway stations, colleges, schools etc in Section 174 (1) (a) to be fixed by sum obtained by adding the estimated present cost of erecting the building less depreciation by rules to the estimated value of the land appurtenant thereto. In the case of all other buildings including residential buildings, the valuation based on capital value is adopted for arriving at the annual value, which is twelve times the value arrived at on multiplying the carpet area of the building or the area of the land by the applicable minimum monthly rate of rent per square foot of the carpet area in the case of building or the minimum monthly rate of rent per square foot of the area in case of land. The minimum monthly rate of rent is to be fixed by the Municipal Commissioner every two years on the basis of location of the building and the nature of construction and other factors. 26.	 The U.P. Municipal Corporation (Property Taxes) Rules, 2000, made under Sections 174 , 207-A and 221B of the Act of 1959 and published in the notification dated 16.6.1999 provides for definitions, in Section 2 , of group of buildings, group of land, kachcha building, property to mean a building or land or both as the case may be; pakka building, statement of self-assessment to be filed by the owner or occupier in Form "A" appended to the Rules; carpet area, covered area, annual value, monthly rate and residential building. Rules 3, 4, 4A, 4B, 4C, 5, 5A and 7 relevant for the purpose of this case are quoted as below:- 4.A	Fixation of minimum monthly rate of rent.- The Municipal Commissioner shall once in every two years fix the minimum monthly rate of rent per unit area (square foot) of the carpet area for every group of building within a ward or the applicable minimum monthly rate, or rent per unit area (square foot) of the area for every group of land as the case may be having regard to- (a)	the circle rate fixed by the Collector for purposes of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899; and (b)	the current minimum rate of rent in the area for such building or land: or
 
Covered area x fixed per unit area monthly rate of rent x 12 x 80%
 
(2)	Payable tax.- Taxes would be payable in accordance with the rates fixed under Section 148 of the Act on the basis of annual value. (3)	Rebates- Rebates shall be admissible in annual value and payable taxes in accordance with the provisions prescribed in the Act. (4)	Self-Assessment.- The person who holds the primary liability of paying the property tax of residential building or other liable person shall deposit the tax fixing in accordance with the provisions of Rule 4 and Rule 4-C and giving the details of the property in Form A of the rules in place of returns required in Rule 3 in the Banks prescribed by Municipal Commissioner upto the date fixed under Rule 3 (1) with Form A and challan. (5)	Special provisions in Self-Assessment- The pay liability of property taxes by self-assessment upto the fixed date under Sub-rule (4) shall not be more than previous year to the extent as may be prescribed by the Government from time to time. 5.	Assessment list-(1) The assessment list in respect of all the buildings or the plots or both shall be prepared after calculating the tax on the basis of- (a)	details submitted in Form A and Form B by the owners or occupiers of the buildings and the lands; or (b)	information collected by the Municipal Commissioner or an officer authorised by him in this behalf where informations in Form A or Form B are not submitted within the fixed time; (c)	the assessment list shall contain- (i)	name of road and mohallah in which property situates (ii)	designation of the property by name, by number or by any other specification sufficient for identification (iii)	name of the owner; whether it is owner-occupied or on rent. If on rent, the name of the tenant (iv)	the carpet area base and covered area base the minimum monthly rate of rent per square foot for the group of the building or land. (v)	carpet area or covered area of the building or the area of the land or both. (vi)	year of construction of building. (vii)	nature of construction of the building. (2)	List regarding self-assessment.- The residential buildings for which self assessed taxes with Form A have been submitted within prescribed period shall be entered in assessment list prepared in Sub-rule (1) but the provisions of Rule 5-A shall not be applicable on such buildings: 6.	Payment of Taxes- The Municipal Commissioner or an officer authorised by him in this behalf shall send a bill to the owner or occupier for the payment of property tax assessed under Rules, 4, 4-C and 5 in which a date shall be indicated till which it would be deposited in the banks noticed by the Municipal Commissioner or in office of the Municipal Corporation. If the entire amount of tax is not deposited upto the date fixed, the interest shall be payable in accordance with Section 221-A of the Act: 7. 	Self-Assessment of tax.- The owner or occupier primarily liable to payment of tax in respect of a residential building may, himself determine the property tax in accordance with the provisions of the Act and deposit the property tax so assessed by him in the notified bank together with a statement of self-assessment." 27.	It is significant to notice that the Act of 1959 underwent exhaustive amendments by UP Act 16 of 2004 w.e.f. 21.11.2002. Since the last assessments were made in the year 2003, the amendments made by UP Act 16 of 2004 are relevant for the current increase in the assessments, which was due on every two years but has been delayed and has been made after seven years in the year 2010-11. Prior to these amendments the Act of 1959 also underwent amendments by UP Act 17 of 1999 by which a proviso was added to sub-section (2) to Section 173 providing for aggregate of the property taxes. Sub section (2) of Section 174, providing for general rates of depreciation in respect of owner occupied building let on rent, was provided and an exception was added in clause (g) of Section 177 to exclude owner-occupied residential building constructed on a plot of land measuring thirty square meters, or having a carpet area up to fifteen square metres provided that the owner thereof does not own any other building in the city. The amendments by UP Act 16 of 2004 w.e.f. 21.11.2002 gave powers of fixing minimum monthly rate of rent to the Municipal Commissioner under Section 174 (1) (b), exempted owner-occupied residential building, which has been included in the limit of Corporation within five years of the facilities of roads, drinking water and street light in clause (h) of Section 177, powers of remission to Municipal Commissioner by reason of non-occupation under Section 178 and more importantly by amending Section 207 and adding Sections 207A, 207B, 208 and amending Section 218. These provisions give powers to the Municipal Commissioner to prepare the assessment list providing for area-wise rental rates in accordance with the manner prescribed in the Rules under Section 207 and above; liability of submission of the details of the houses or land for assessment of tax for the purpose of annual rental value and for that purpose submission of property return under Section 207-B and the option to deposit self-assessment property tax under Section 207A. The obligation has also been caused on owner and occupier of any building, which is constructed or re-constructed or addition is made by adding more than 25% to submit information to the Municipal Commissioner under Section 214 within 60 days of the date of completion or date of occupation, whichever is earlier, in the prescribed form and the fine of Rs. 500/- per day for not supplying such information. 28.	The Municipal Commissioner, with the help of the provisions of the Act of 1959 as amended by UP Act 17 of 1999 and UP Act 16 of 2004, has to provide for a comprehensive property tax structure, in which he is obliged to fix the monthly rate of rent every two years for determination of annual value and thereafter requires the owner or occupier of the property to submit tax returns on Form A appended to the Rules of the Year 2000, and to deposit of property tax. The owners and occupiers of the new buildings or the building in which more than 25 per cent of the area is added to submit information to the Municipal Commissioner within 60 days. The Municipal Commissioner prepares area-wise rental rates and assessment list in the city or part thereof in accordance with the Rules of 2000 inviting objections after publication of the lists in two daily newspapers and thereafter carrying out tax assessments and the publication of assessment lists inviting objections to be published in two daily newspapers under Rule 5A. The objections are to be disposed of under Sub-rule (3) of Rule 5A after which the bills are sent to the owners or occupiers for payment of property tax assessment under Rules 4, 4C and 5 in which the date is indicated till which the property tax is to be deposited in the banks notified by the Municipal Commissioner or the office of the Municipal Corporation. The failure of self-assessment and the delay in payment of tax invites penalties. The assessment is subject to appeal under Section 472 of the Act in District Court and it is ordinarily entertained by the District Judge, who transfers the same to any Additional Judge or the Court of Small Cause or Civil Judge. The appeal is heard on the deposit of the amount by the appellant with the Municipal Commissioner. A second appeal is provided to District Judge under Section 476, on a question of law, where the annual value is fixed under Section 472, to be more than twelve thousand rupees. The Act also provides for arbitration on agreement of all the parties under Section 474 of the Act. 29.	The Revised Income and Expenditure (Budget) of the Financial Year 2010-2011 of Nagar Nigam, Allahabad produced by Shri S.D. Kautilya, appearing for Nagar Nigam, Allahabad shows a dismal picture of the collection of taxes by the Nagar Nigam. In the estimated total income of Rs. 433.97 crores, the share of the property tax is only Rs. 10.19 crores in the previous year, which is sought to be raised by imposition of the property taxes (under challenge) to Rs. 25 crores. The other incomes of the Nagar Nigam include taxes on animal estimated to Rs. 50, 000/-; tax on passengers estimated to Rs. 20 lacs; tax on dogs estimated to Rs. 50, 000/-; tax on advertisement estimated to Rs. 7 crores; tax on theatres estimated to Rs. 5 lacs and stamp duty at 2% on the estimated transfer of properties to Rs. 10 crores. The estimate of collection from taxes and stamp duty at 2% is Rs. 42 crores, and the income from properties and Tah bazari estimated to Rs. 6.94 crores. The Nagar Nigam has estimated the receipt of grants from the State Finance Commission at Rs. 50 crores, special grant for arrears of salary of the employees at Rs. 23.61 crores; contingency grants of Rs. 10 lacs and for computerization at Rs. 55 lacs. The Nagar Nigam expects receipts of Rs. 226.31 crores from JNNURM; Rs. 3 crores from the grants of 12th Finance Commission. With other misc. items the expected income of Rs. 453 crores includes increase of property tax from Rs.10.19 crores to Rs. 25 crores. It is this increase in the assessment and collection of the property tax, which is under challenge in this writ petition. 30.	Shri Umesh Narain Sharma, Senior Advocate assisted by Shri Chandan Sharma submits that by the 74th Amendment to the Constitution of India, the urban local bodies were provided to be efficient units of self-governance. They were conceived to become autonomous by depending on their own revenue. With this objective one of the mandatory reform was introduced under JNNURM scheme by implementing the property tax reforms, by mapping through Geographical Information System. The basic objective is to tap the full potential of property tax; bring all properties into the tax net; introduce system improvements to increase efficiency in tax administration focusing on the entire value chain coverage, billing, collection and enforcement; make the system of assessment transparent and simple; eliminate/reduce subjectivity and discretion in assessment; remove existing inequities; enable property owners/occupiers to calculate tax liability on their own, file self assessment forms putting the onus upon the assessee to pay tax on time. The scheme also provides for building in buoyancy and elasticity in the tax base to achieve revenue growth; proper information system for monitoring to ensure full coverage in assessment and full collection of tax dues; make the systems of assessment, collection and information citizen friendly and introduce efficient mechanism for speedy grievance redressal and dispute settlement. With these objectives the Nagar Nigam started the work under GIS system. While implementing the property tax reforms various illegalities, anomalies and irregularities have been committed by the Nagar Nigam, Allahabad, which has resulted into arbitrary and unreasonable increase in general tax. 31.	It is submitted by Shri Sharma, that the Satellite mapping as required under GIS, has not been completed by the Nagar Nigam. The entire exercise has been conducted in an illegal and arbitrary manner. Under the GIS system, the Nagar Nigam was required to impose tax only on those units which were discovered through GIS mapping and accordingly individual assessments under Section 213 of the Act should have been done in the discovered units under GIS mapping. Instead, the Nagar Nigam has proceeded to assess all the units of the city making arbitrary increase of the property tax. The Nagar Nigam has mixed up both the nature of assessment, namely assessment under Section 207 to 210 as well as assessment under Section 213. Shri Sharma submits that even assuming that the Nagar Nigam has carried out general assessment under Section 207 to 210, then too the Nagar Nigam was required to follow the provisions of Section 207 to 210. This illegal exercise was opposed by the Corporators in the house of the Nagar Nigam and accordingly resolution nos. 340 and 342 were passed, whereby the entire exercise was turned down. The State Government by the impugned order dated 21.9.2011 has prohibited further execution of these resolutions. Shri Anugrah Narain Singh has preferred a Writ Tax No. 1455 of 2011 against the order of the State Government dated 21.9.2011. 32.	Shri Sharma further submits that the records annexed with the counter affidavit clearly indicate that the Nagar Nigam has not created a file in respect of each unit; the ward-wise mapping has not been done; urban development survey form annexed to the supplementary counter affidavit clearly reveals that the details of each of the unit are incomplete, inasmuch as no internal dimensions of any of the units including the areas such as the area of each room, kitchen, bath room, open space, terrace, stairs etc. has been given. The Urban Development Survey Forms have not been signed by persons, who are employees of the Nagar Nigam. The data is not authenticated by any officer of the Nagar Nigam. The Revenue Inspectors have been totally ignored from conducting the exercise of assessment. The RTI replies given by various Zonal Officers reveal that the exercise has not at all been completed and that the Nagar Nigam has in a very haste manner proceeded to revise the assessments. 33.	It is further submitted by Shri Sharma, that the increase in house tax is without any rationale or reason. The Nagar Nigam was divided into 40 wards in the year 1989. Subsequently these wards were increased to 70 in the year 1995-96, and thereafter 80 in the year 2005-2006. The increase in the number of wards was only for the purposes of election. The taxing was to be done on the basis of old 40 wards. The entire procedure adopted is misleading. 34.	Shri Sharma also submits that the Corporators are aggrieved by the inaction of the Nagar Nigam, in failing to increase the income from advertisement tax. In Allahabad the income from advertisement tax is only Rs. 5.13 lacs in 2009-10 as compared to Rs. 340.67 lacs in Lucknow; Rs. 207.20 lacs in Agra and Rs. 119.35 lacs in Varanasi. The entire tax is sought to be collected from the properties and not by tapping by other sources. 35.	Shri K.N. Tripathi, Senior Advocate appearing in Writ Petition No. 44856 of 2011 ( Kamlesh Singh & ors vs. State of UP and others ) submits that the monthly rate of rent under Section 174 (1) (b) includes the carpet area of the constructions and the nature of constructions. Every individual building has different class of constructions. The minimum monthly rate of rent per square foot of the area may be increased every two years by the Municipal Commissioner. Section 174 (b) with its explanation postulates individual survey of every house. The Nagar Nigam has not carried out individual survey through its officers. The incomplete surveys, which have been made the basis of assessment of property tax, are not prepared by the authorized officers. The Urban Development Survey Forms are not complete and do not give the measurements of the carpet areas of the building and the measurements of the land under the building and appurtenant land. The inspection of all the houses was not carried out. The diaries were not maintained nor any supervision was made of the surveys. In fact no spot inspection was carried out at all. 36.	In the counter affidavit of Shri P.K. Mishra, Chief Tax Assessment Officer, Municipal Corporation, Allahabad, it is stated that the petitioners have no locus standi to challenge the order dated 8.7.2012. Their contention, that the fixation of house tax is based only on GIS Survey, is incorrect inasmuch as reports made available from GIS survey were made the basis of spot inspections, which have also been taken into account for calculation of the property tax. Shri Anugrah Narain Singh-a Member of Legislative Assembly has raised this question in the assembly to which a reply was given and through which he was informed by the Nagar Nigam, Allahabad that the New Country Programme (2003 to 2007), for increasing the capacity of the de-centralised city administration carried out with the aid of UNDP, had selected Allahabad for a detailed survey by the letter of the Central Government dated 26.10.2006. The programme included the improvement in the property tax through GIS survey. Under this scheme vide letters received from the State Government dated 27.10.2006 and the Regional City and Environment Study Centre, Lucknow dated 6.1.2007 M/s C.E. Info-Systems Private Limited, 44B, Shivalik, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi was selected for GIS survey for Nagar Nigam, Allahabad. Under JNRRUM scheme the property tax schemes are to be implemented from the 5th year, utilising GIS survey. 37.	M/s C.E. Infosystems Private Limited carried out GIS survey in the year 2008-09 in which the total number of buildings in the tax net were found to be 1, 70, 953, whereas in the same period the number of properties covered by Allahabad Nagar Nigam was 1, 66, 718. The proceedings for assessment of the property taxes on this left out 4235 buildings was made under the Rules of 2000 after issuing notices to the owners of the house and deciding their objections and consequently the Nagar Nigam has increased its income to Rs. 219/- lacs. 38.	In the reply the Municipal Commissioner further stated that the property tax assessment of all the residential buildings within the area of Nagar Nigam is being made by GIS survey and spot surveys for reassessment of the entire 1, 76, 156 buildings after which the current demand of the house tax will increase from Rs. 10 crores to Rs. 30 crores. In paragraphs 12, 14 and 17 of the counter affidavit Shri P.K. Mishra, Chief Tax Assessment Officer has stated as follows:- 39.	A supplementary counter affidavit of the same officer was filed on 17.10.2011, in which apart from giving the details of the house of Shri Shiv Sewak Singh and Shri Anugrah Narain Singh in paragraph-16A and 16-B, which are not relevant for the purposes of deciding this case, it is stated in paragraphs 26, 27 and 28 as follows:- 28.	That even during the pendency of the writ petition, the answering respondent notified through newspaper that the persons having grievance about the assessment list may approach through objection or by self-assessment, so that their grievance may be redressed." 40.	Shri Ravi Kant, learned counsel appearing for the Nagar Nigam submits that the GIS survey was carried out in terms of the requirements of the improvement of property tax structure as recommended by JNNURM to increase the net of the property tax and to include those areas, which have been developed in and around the city. Under the instructions of the Central Government and the State Government, the agency was nominated for the purpose of locating the buildings. The GIS survey was not carried out for causing assessments of the houses. The report of the GIS survey was made the basis of including the houses, which were found constructed and were not within the tax net. The survey may not be accurate, but that it indicated those houses, which were left out and in respect of which no self-assessment forms were received. 41.	It is submitted by Shri Ravi Kant that the petitioners have not shown any cause of action to challenge the assessment of house tax to be carried out by annually. The Municipal Commissioner is required to fix the monthly rent of rate for calculation of annual value of residential buildings on per square foot of carpet area and per square foot in case of land on the basis of the location of the buildings or land, nature of construction and the circle rate fixed by the Collector. The monthly rate of rent is thereafter treated as the basis of calculation of annual value and the assessment of the house tax provided in the Rules of 2000. He submits that in the present case notices were published after receiving the GIS survey in which large number of areas were discovered, which were not assessed. He relies upon the averments and the documents annexed to the supplementary counter affidavit of Shri P.K. Mishra in which it is stated in paragraph-7 that the GIS survey as well as manual survey were undertaken by the Nagar Nigam in the year 2007-08 and in which number of meetings took place to review the progress. The officers namely Shri Subhash Pandey and Shri Sumit Kumar, who appear to have given in writing that they are not maintaining diaries and the details of the spot inspections, participated in the meetings and in the review meetings in connection with the survey of houses. These meetings were held on 16.6.2008, 16.7.2008, 22.8.2008, 17.12.2008, 01.7.2008, 01.8.2008, 17.1.2009, 2.1.2009, 3.10.2009 and 4.7.2011. They have submitted wrong information for not maintaining the records, whereas they were actively involved in carrying out GIS/manual surveys. 42.	Shri Ravi Kant has relied upon the GIS survey report and the manual survey reports on the basis of which the property details were collected. He submits that 86 employees of the Nagar Nigam including 38 Tax Collectors, 14 Revenue Inspectors, 09 Tax Supervisors and 25 Clerks, and further 45 persons, who were outsourced, were involved in the work of manual survey. He submits that the rates were notified. The monthly rate of rent were notified on 18.6.2010 on the basis of the circle rates worked out on the width of the road, which were to be made effective from 1.4.2011. The lists were notified in the newspapers and were made available in each wards. Objections were invited in July, 2011. About 1100 objections were filed which are in the process of being decided. On the basis of these GIS/manual surveys the tax was assessed and the bills have been sent. The Corporators including the petitioners were fully aware of the entire proceedings. They were, however, trying to confuse the issue of the GIS survey/manual survey with the notification of the monthly rate of rent. The petitioners tried to mislead the house of the Nagar Nigam and the general public in alleging that the GIS survey was made the basis of increasing the property taxes, whereas the object of GIS survey was not for assessment but to include the left out properties and the developments, which are taken place in and around the city. All these properties were subjected to manual survey and that the rates notified, which had become effective from 1.4.2011 were made the basis of assessment. 43.	Shri Ravi Kant submits that in the case of Shri Shiv Sewak Singh, a detailed form was prepared calculating the house tax on the basis of monthly rate of rent of carpet area fixed by the Municipal Commissioner. His old ARV was Rs. 1152/- effective from 1.4.2003. With the plot area of 1500 square meters, residential carpet area of 525 square meters and commercial carpet area of 1200 square meters with construction type 'Pucca with RCC' and road width 12-24 meters, the GIS ARV was worked out at Rs. 43,875/- w.e.f 1.4.2011. The old house tax of Rs. 126.72 was increased to Rs. 4826.25. He had paid Rs. 741.72 and was given rebate of Rs. 12.67. The ARV was worked out on the basis of monthly rate of rent of Rs. 1.25 per square meters for residential carpet area of 525.00 square meters and Rs. 2.50 for commercial carpet area of 1200 square meters. He submits that no objections have been filed to the assessment and thus he cannot have any grievance of the increase in the assessment of the house tax. The Nagar Nigam, however, is still open to consider the objections filed under the Rules of 2000 in accordance with the law. 44.	Shri Ravi Kant has relied upon Municipal Committee, Patiala vs. Model Town Residents Association & others (2007) 8 SCC 669; India Automobiles (1960) Ltd vs. Calcutta Municipal Corporation and another (2002) 3 SCC 388; G.P.S. Nayar vs. Corporation of Trivandrum and another (2003) 9 SCC 249; Municipal Board, Saharanpur vs. Shahdara (Delhi) Saharanpur decided on 24.11.1998 & Pradeep Oil Corporation vs. Municipal Corporation of Delhi, Civil Appeal No. 6546-6552 of 2003 decided on 6.4.2011 in support of his submissions, that the inclusion of left out areas through the help of GIS survey, the determination of monthly rate of rent for carpet area and land by the Municipal Commissioner, taking into consideration the circle rates and the constructions, was strictly in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 1959 read with Rules of 2000. 45.	We summoned the records and examined the GIS survey maps and the manual surveys carried out by the team of officers of Nagar Nigam and the persons, who were engaged by the Nagar Nigam by outsourcing. We are not satisfied with the quality of GIS survey carried out for identifying new areas and the extent of development, which has taken place within the boundaries of Nagar Nigam. The agency engaged by the Nagar Nigam, Allahabad appears to be inexperienced and has carried out a very shoddy work. We could only make out bright (white spots) and dark areas, which according to the petitioners, depicted the developed and undeveloped areas. 46. In T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad (98) vs. Union of India and others AIR 2006 SC 1774 the Supreme Court approved the surveys made by Geographical Information System and observed in paragraphs 34 to 45 as follows:- ii) GPS (Global Positioning System) 41. GPS is a satellite based positioning system operated by USA. It consists of satellites. It is a data collection tool for GIS. Basically, the signals from the satellites in GPS are received by GPS receivers on the earth. Therefore, different stations are earmarked on the earth covering a particular area. It is the matching of the satellite with the receiver which plays an important role. Certain discrepancies in the matching are got over by differential GPS (See: esri.com) iii) IRS-LISS III 42. It stands for Linear Imaging Self Scanning Sensor which is a multi-spectral camera. LISS-III products comprise of path/row products, georeferenced products etc. (See: earth.esa.int). It helps to track areas and boundaries. Combination of LISS III with ERDAS-imagine is more reliable than photo print analysis by CAD. It is better to depend on interpretation of IRS LISS III Digital Data by EDRAS Imagine than by CAD. 43. As stated above, the main challenge to the NRSA report is that proper parameters have not been taken into account and although better technology was available the same was not deliberately resorted to. The contention is that CEC should have opted for the latest technology. 44. We do not find merit in this argument. The technology of 2001, 2002 and 2003 is not to be discarded. The later technology gives more spatial information but that does not mean that the information given by the earlier technology is inaccurate. The latest technology under GIS can locate even a pin on the earth. However, we are not concerned with such a tiny object in this case. Be that as it may, we may also point out that even in the State of Forest Report 2003, FSI has based its figures of forest cover by using Digital Image Processing (DIP) by using the scale of interpretation of 1:50000. Further, in that report, FSI has relied upon the introduction of a new methodology based on remote sensing to estimate the trees covered below 1 hectare which cannot be discerned by using LISS-III data. Under the new method, a canopy of all forests that can be delineated from satellite data (Sensor LISS-III) was termed as forest cover. Even under this new technology adopted by FSI the spatial resolution of 23.5 mtr. of LISS-III has been taken into account and by using DIP technique, forest cover was mapped even in 2003 at a scale of 1:50000. Therefore, consistently, FSI has taken the above parameters into account. Hence, there is no merit in the contentions raised by Deepak Agarwal saying that CEC has been randomly selecting queries and data. 45. In short, NRSA's report submitted through FSI is reliable and we see no reason to reject it. On the basis of the said report, it can be said that AOI (area of interest) does not qualify so as to be included in the category of Deemed Forest i.e. a compact block of 10 hectares having 200 trees per hectare." 47.	The technology has advanced rapidly. The image processing to uncover features like boundaries and area of a given plot of land integrated with the attributes (spatial and non-spatial) and stored in an information system to analyze, can provide accurate imagery to identify the developed areas. The Google maps available on internet provide much better and sharp images of the development than the geographical information provided through GIS by the agency adopted by Nagar Nigam, Allahabad. Initially we were keen to accept the argument that such images cannot form the basis of municipal assessment of property taxes. Shri Ravi Kant, however, explained that the GIS survey is not the basis of property tax assessment. The reports were used only to find out the new areas which have developed in and around Allahabad to increase the tax net. We thus accept the argument that the GIS survey was made the basis of manual survey of the areas, which have been developed in and around the municipal limits of Allahabad which were later on inspected manually by the team of officers and the outsourced staff, to prepare the data for assessment of property tax. It appears that for these reasons the Municipal Commissioner was not willing to share the data with the Municipal Corporators and which caused communication gap resulting into hue and cry which initiated the resolutions passed by the house, to be later on suspended by the State Government. 48.	We are confident that the Nagar Nigam will engage a competent agency in future, which will provide better reports to be relied upon for bringing in buildings and the areas, which have been developed, in the next exercise to be carried out for assessment of property tax and the Municipal Commissioner will place such GIS survey report and maps in the house to usher more transparency and accountability in the process. 49.	By resolution no. 340 dated 25.6.2011, it was resolved by the Nagar Nigam that the Municipal Commissioner has not placed the proposal for increasing the house tax in the year 2011-2012 in the House and has arbitrarily increased the rates. After deprecating the conduct of the Municipal Commissioner the House decided to reject the proposal of Housing Commissioner for increasing the house tax and proposed that the resolution no. 239 to increase the permissible taxes be implemented. By a subsequent resolution no. 342 dated 6.7.2011 the house of Nagar Nigam passed a resolution that its earlier resolution no. 340 dated 25.6.2011 be implemented and that taking into consideration Article 285 of the Constitution of India as well as Sections 172 , 173 of the Act of 1959 and the House Tax Rules of 2000 as well as the judgment of the High Court regarding advertisement tax, resolved that the house tax be increased from 11% to 13%. The House observed that the GIS survey report has not been placed on the panel of the House, which has been the basis of increasing the house tax of all the properties. The house resolved to improve the financial condition of the Nagar Nigam by reducing the wasteful expenditure and to bring in the advertisement, pheri licence, parking fees and revenue from cycle stands within the tax net. 50.	The State Government, in exercise of its powers under Section 537 of the Act, by Office Memorandum dated 21.9.2011 suspended the execution of the resolutions No. 340 and 342. We do not find substance in the arguments raised by learned counsels appearing for the petitioners that the State Government has not given sufficient reasons to exercise its powers under Section 537 of the Act or that the State Government has not discussed or has referred to any contravention of or in excess of the powers conferred by the Act or made in abuse of any such power or is likely to lead to a breach of peace or to cause obstruction, injury or annoyance to the public or any class or body of persons, nor it has referred to any prejudice to be caused in public interest to pass such order. 51.	We find that the resolutions no. 340 and 342 were patently against public interest. The Corporators, without appreciating and understanding their powers, which are confined only to the levy of property tax and its rates under proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 173, encroached upon the powers of the Municipal Commissioner to fix the minimum monthly rate of rent, under Section 174 (1) (b). They completely misunderstood the statutory exercise made by the Municipal Commissioner, Allahabad on the guidelines given for improvement of the collection of property taxes under the JNNURM. The GIS survey is a method adopted to bring in the developments, which cannot be easily found by manual surveys. The GIS survey was not the basis of assessment and increase of the property taxes. The resolution nos. 340 and 342, in so far as they directed the Municipal Commissioner not to implement the increased monthly rate of rent of the house tax, and in rejecting the GIS survey to be the basis of the increase in the house tax, were in complete disregard to the provisions of the Act of 1959. The resolutions to that effect were also against the public interest and were rightly suspended by the State Government. 52.	We have considered the submissions and find that the petitioners have not only misunderstood the provisions of the Act and the Rules, but have in their anxiety to please their constituency, misled the people of Allahabad in raising frivolous issues in the House of the Nagar Nigam. They have shown their concern for increasing the income of Nagar Nigam for carrying out the statutory duties and the developments of the city, but they have not understood their role and responsibility in carrying out such functions. The Nagar Nigam, Allahabad had carried out the exercise of determining the monthly rate of rent of carpet area and the assessments eight years' ago in the year 2003. Since thereafter the city has grown both vertically and horizontally. New buildings have come up in and around the cities within the municipal areas. In the reply given by the Municipal Commissioner in the Legislative Assembly he had reported that with the aid of GIS survey, a total number of 4235 buildings were found to have been constructed recently, which were not assessed to property tax. The Municipal Commissioner had also carried out the exercise of determining the monthly rate of rent for determining the annual value of the carpet area to be carried out by him by annually. For about two years the exercise of carrying out the manual surveys was going on in the city of Allahabad under the supervision of the Municipal Commissioner and the Chief Tax Superintendent and in which almost the entire staff of Nagar Nigam was included. It is difficult to believe that the Corporators were not aware of this exercise. They kept on raising the bogey of alleging that the GIS survey has been made the basis of increasing the house tax, whereas the GIS survey was not the basis of assessment and increase of property taxes. The GIS survey was carried out under JNNURM scheme to identify the properties, which were either constructed after the last assessments or to which substantial portions were added, to bring within the net of the property taxes. In fact the increase of the house tax was a result of the increase in the minimum rate of rent per square ft. of the carpet area in respect of building, and minimum monthly rate of rent per square ft. of the area in case of land. The circle rates fixed by the Collector under the Stamp Act 1899 have increased substantially and that the rate of constructions per square ft. has also increased. The monthly rate of rent per square ft. of carpet area was thus worked out for residential and commercial buildings separately and the portions used for commercial purposes in respect of buildings and were notified by the Municipal Commissioner in exercise of his statutory duties published in daily newspapers on 18.6.2010 to be effective from 1.4.2011. The lists were also published inviting objections. We are informed that no objections were received and thus the lists were finalised and that the assessments were made accordingly calculating the house tax on the annual value under Section 174 of the Act, 1959. 53.	We asked Shri Ravi Kant, assisted by Shri S.D. Kautilya several times and confirmed from them that not a single Form 'A' of the Rules of 2000 of self assessment under Section 207-B inserted by UP Act 16 of 2004 w.e.f. 21.11.2002 and the option to deposit self-assessment property tax under Section 207-A also added by the same amendment w.e.f. 21.11.2002, was received in the office of the Nagar Nigam. We express our deep sense of concern that the enlightened citizens of Allahabad, known for complaining about the inefficiency of the Nagar Nigam in carrying out its statutory duties, have not shown the same sense of responsibility in submission of the details of their houses and lands for assessment of property tax. The legislature has added special provisions of submission of details of houses or lands for assessment of tax and the option to deposit self-assessment for tax by inserting Section 207-B or Section 207B and the penalty for failure to supply the information under Section 221-B (2) not exceeding Rs. 1000/-. The owners and occupiers of the properties in the Municipal limit of the Allahabad, therefore, have a statutory obligation to furnish returns and make disclosures on Form 'A' and 'B' of the U.P. Nagar Nigam (Property Tax) Rules 2000, and thereafter if they find the individual assessments to be incorrect, file objections under Rule 5A (2), for correcting any error in assessment. 54.	 The object of providing submission of the details of the houses or lands for assessment of tax, and the option to deposit self-assessment property tax under Section 207-B and 207A added by UP Act 16 of 2004 w.e.f. 21.12.2002, is to assist the Municipal Corporation, to carry out its duties for the benefit of citizens. It is not possible for any Municipal Corporation to carry out an accurate manual survey, with its limited staff, of all the properties in the Municipal limits. This responsibility has to be shared by the citizens, who own properties by submitting property returns for assessment of tax. 55.	We do not find that the petitioners as Corporators under a duty to educate the citizens of their wards sufficiently to fill up the tax returns and to deposit self-assessed property tax, have carried out their responsibilities. They have also not filed any objections to the proposed rates and lists, which were notified and which are deemed to be conclusive after a prescribed period under Section 212 of the Act of 1959. Instead of filing objections to the notified minimum monthly rate of rent per square meter ft. of the carpet area and of land, the Corporators paradoxically resolved to increase the property tax from 11% to 13%. The resolution was in fact against the very purpose for which the Corporators have filed these writ petitions. They are totally confused, with the increase of the minimum monthly rate of rent for calculating the annual value notified by the Commissioner, and the increase in the tax under the proviso to Section 173 (2). In fact they proposed to increase the house tax and consequently the amount of house tax to be worked out on the revised rates of assessment of the annual value. We find that the petitioners have in complete disregard to the provisions of the Act, proposed to add a further burden on the owners and occupiers of the properties in the municipal limits of Nagar Nigam, Allahabad. 56.	We do not propose to go into the questions of the individual assessments, as there is no challenge nor any prayer has been made to quash the lists of the minimum monthly rate of rent per square ft. per carpet area fixed and notified by the Municipal Commissioner or individual assessments. No objections were filed to these lists and thus the entries in the lists will be treated to be conclusive under Section 212 of the Act of 1959 unless the lists are amended, or altered by the Municipal Commissioner under Section 213 of the Act of 1959. 57.	We, however, find that all the persons, who have been served with the bills of the increased house tax calculated on the notified minimum monthly rate of rent, have a right to file objections regarding the carpet area or the covered area of the building, area of land or other entries and rebates to be given in writing to the Municipal Commissioner within one month from the publication of the notice under sub-rule (2) of Rule 5A and which the Municipal Commissioner or any officer authorised by him is required to dispose of under sub-rule (3) after giving the objectors the opportunity of being heard. 58.	We are informed by Shri Ravi Kant, assisted by Shri S.D. Kautilya, that about 1100 objections have been filed to individual assessments. We have no doubt that these objections will be considered and decided by the Municipal Commissioner or any officer authorised by him in accordance with the law. 59.	In the supplementary rejoinder affidavit of Shri Shiv Sewak Singh dated 14.11.2011, he has annexed a report of the Indian Audit and Accounts Department dated 25.2.2010, reporting the loss of Rs.141.54 lacs in reducing the assessment of some of the big properties in the Nagar Nigam at Allahabad. In case of Shri Tirath Ram Kohli (Cold Storage), 88A/108, Mira Patti, Allahabad, the annual value of the properties effective from 1.4.2003 has been brought down from Rs. 16.19 lacs to Rs. 3.87 lacs. Similarly the annual value of the properties of Smt. Prabha Bhargava (M/s Amitdeep) 20/26, Sulem Sarai, Allahabad has been reduced from Rs. 27.38 lacs to Rs. 3.73 lacs; Shri Kamta Prasad Musan, 93/57, Jhulelal Nagar, Allahabad from Rs. 8.58 lacs to Rs. 18, 360/-; M/s K.L. Sons Pvt. Limited, 11/11, Jhulelal Nagar, Allahabad from Rs. 19.11 lacs to Rs. 46, 912/-; Shri Sita Ram Agrawal, 433A/ 284A/ 1A, Bairahana, Allahabad from Rs. 25.74 lacs to Rs. 6693/-; President Kayastha Pathshala, 12/12, Kamla Nehru Road, Allahabad from Rs. 59.51 lacs to Rs. 8.70 lacs; M/s Atlantis Multiplex, 170A/38, Mahatma Gandhi Marg, Allahabad from Rs. 64.65 lacs to Rs. 34.43 lacs; Moh. Shakeel Ahmad, 142/6, Buxi Kala, Allahabad from Rs. 81,685/- to Rs. 15,180/-; Shri Sanjai Singh (Girls Hostel), 9/12, Band Road, Allahabad from Rs. 1.20 lacs to Rs. 64,800/-; Rama Baikunth Nath Trust Registered Office (Bangar Trust) 10/302, Madhvapur, Allahabad from Rs. 8.13 lacs to Rs. 46,746/-; Shri Amar Nath & ors 3A/4C, Shuturkhana, Allahabad from Rs. 4.17 lacs to Rs. 55,650/-; and Shri Rudra Narain Shukla, 141A/3B/1A, Chandpur, Salori, Allahabad from Rs. 1.54 lacs to Rs. 1558/-.	In reply in the counter affidavit filed by the Nagar Nigam, documents have been annexed to show that most of these valuations were brought down on the reports of the Committees presided over by the Corporators. For example the valuation of M/s Atlantis Multiplex has been brought down on a report of the Committee of which Shri Shiv Sewak Singh-one of the petitioner as a corporator was the Chairman of the Sub-Committee to recommend exemption from house tax. 60.	We find it highly objectionable to reduce the valuation on the basis of occupancy of these properties. Section 178 provides that when a building or land has remained vacant and unproductive of rent for ninety or more consecutive days during any year, the Municipal Commissioner shall remit or refund so much of each of the property taxes of that year as may be proportionate to the number of days that the building or land has remained vacant or unproductive of rent. The non-occupancy of certain portion of the building or the malls cannot be a ground to reduce the valuation of the property. At best a remission may be granted for the period the property or any portion thereof has remained vacant for ninety or more consecutive days. The Committee recommended to reduce the valuation on the ground of non-occupancy. The report and the orders for reducing the property taxes are, therefore, grossly violative of the provisions of the Act of 1959, and must be reviewed by the Nagar Nigam, Allahabad to rationalise the property taxes. 61.	In this case we had passed an interim order in Writ Tax Nos. 1129 of 2011 and 1455 of 2011 staying the effect and operation of the Government Order dated 21.9.2011, and the notice dated 8.7.2011. We had also stayed the realisation of the increased house tax making it open to the house owners having properties in the limits of Municipal Corporation, Allahabad to continue to deposit the house tax at the rate on which they were assessed and were depositing the house tax prior to 1.4.2011. The Nagar Nigam, Allahabad has filed SLP (C) No. 31101-31102/2011 in the Supreme Court against the interim order dated 28.9.2011 in Writ Petition No. 1129 of 2011. The Supreme Court by its order dated 6.2.2012 passed an order that it was not inclined to interfere with the impugned order as it was in the nature of an interim order. The Special Leave Petitions were dismissed, with directions that having regard to the nature of the issue involved, the main writ petitions be disposed of as expeditiously as possible, and preferably within six weeks. 62.	Since there was an interim order operating in the matter from 28.9.2011, we find it appropriate to pass final orders as follows:- 63.	The writ petitions are accordingly disposed of. Dt.25.5.2012 
 
RKP/