% 05.02.2024

 I.A. 2260/2024(seeking exemption from advance service to Defendants) 1. For the grounds and reasons stated therein, the application is allowed.
 Considering the particular facts and circumstances of the present case,
 Plaintiff is exempted from serving advance copy of the suit paper-book on
 the Defendants. 2. Disposed of. I.A. 2258/2024(seeking exemption) 3. Exemption is granted, subject to all just exceptions. 4. Plaintiff shall file legible and clearer copies of exempted documents,
 compliant with practice rules, before the next date of hearing. 5. Disposed of. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/02/2024 at 22:24:09
 I.A. 2259/2024(seeking leave to file additional documents) 6. This is an application seeking leave to file additional documents under
 the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 . 7. If Plaintiff wishes to file additional documents at a later stage, they
 shall do so strictly as per the provisions of the said Act. 8. Disposed of. I.A. 2261/2024(seeking exemption from pre-institution mediation) 9. As the present suit contemplates urgent interim relief, in light of the
 judgment of Supreme Court in Yamini Manohar v. T.K.D. Krithi,1 exemption from attempting pre-institution mediation is granted. 10. Disposed of. I.A. 2262/2024(seeking additional time to file court fees) 11. For the grounds and reasons stated therein, the application is allowed.
 Plaintiff is granted six weeks' time to file deficient court fees. 12. Disposed of. I.A. 2263/2024(seeking urgent directions to file documents in pen drive) 13. Rule 24 of Chapter XI of the Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules,
 2018 makes it clear that electronic records can be received in
 CD/DVD/Medium encrypted with a hash value. The said Rule is extracted
 below: - [Emphasis supplied] 14. Thus, the Registry may receive electronic record on CD-ROM so long
 as it is encrypted with a hash value or in any other non-editable format.
 Accordingly, let the video recording contained in CD-ROM be placed in the
 electronic record of the present suit in a format which is non-editable, so that
 the same can be viewed by the Court during hearing. 15. Disposed of. CS(COMM) 92/2024 16. Let the plaint be registered as a suit. 17. At the outset, Mr. Rajiv Nayar, Senior Counsel for Plaintiff, on
 instructions, states that at several places in the plaint, as well as in the
 accompanying applications, the reference made to 'private equity business
 of KKR India Advisors Private Limited' should be read as 'private equity
 advisory business of KKR India Advisors Private Limited'. This statement is
 taken on record, and the plaint and accompanying applications shall be read
 accordingly. 18. Issue summons to Defendants, upon filing of process fee, by all
 permissible modes. Summons shall state that the written statement(s) shall
 be filed by the Defendants within 30 days from the date of receipt of
 summons. Along with the written statement(s), the Defendants shall also file CS(COMM) 92/2024 Page 3 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/02/2024 at 22:24:10
 affidavit(s) of admission/denial of the documents of the Plaintiff, without
 which the written statement(s) shall not be taken on record. 19. Liberty is given to the Plaintiff to file replication(s) within 15 days of
 the receipt of the written statement(s). Along with the replication(s), if any,
 filed by the Plaintiff, affidavit(s) of admission/denial of documents of the
 Defendants, be filed by the Plaintiff, without which the replication(s) shall
 not be taken on record. If any of the parties wish to seek inspection of any
 documents, the same shall be sought and given within the timelines. 20. List before the Joint Registrar for marking of exhibits on 05th April,
 2024. It is made clear that any party unjustifiably denying documents would
 be liable to be burdened with costs. 21. List before Court for framing of issues thereafter.
 I.A. 2256/2024(under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of CPC ) 22. Mr. Rajiv Nayar, Senior Counsel for Plaintiff, presents their facts and
 contentions as follows: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/02/2024 at 22:24:10
 qualified professional and a person of high reputation and stature in the
 investment advisory services sector. Prior to joining KKR India, the Plaintiff
 was employed with another leading investment advisory firm and his move
 to KKR India was widely covered in the media including in leading financial
 newspapers Financial Express and The Economic Times. 22.3 The instant suit alleges violation of the personality and
 publicity rights, goodwill and reputation of Plaintiff by various unknown
 persons, including by way of creation of social media groups and on
 messaging platforms which falsely claim association with the Plaintiff and
 misuse his reputation in this advisory sector to offer investment services to
 the unwary public by impersonating Plaintiff. Screenshots of messages sent
 on online platforms falsely claiming to have been sent by the Plaintiff have
 been annexed to the plaint, some of which are reproduced below: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/02/2024 at 22:24:10
 them by falsely claiming that investments would be made based on the
 expertise of the Plaintiff. In this regard, Defendants No. 1 and 2 and other
 unknown persons are also asking the unwary public to deposit money in
 certain bank accounts. Moreover, a deepfake video has been created
 employing artificial intelligence to create a false likeness to the Plaintiff and
 encourage members of the public to invest their funds with persons wrongly
 claiming association with the Plaintiff and KKR. 22.6 The following list of social media profiles/ links have been identified
 in the application for urgent interim reliefs as engaging in the fraudulent
 activity described above as on the date of filing of the suit: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/02/2024 at 22:24:10
 identified in the application for urgent interim reliefs as engaging in the
 fraudulent activity described above as on the date of filing of the suit: 22.8 The Plaintiff has been contacted by a number of investors drawing his
 attention to, inter alia, the aforementioned social media profiles and
 messaging groups which have falsely claimed association with the Plaintiff.
 He has been constrained to repeatedly disclaim any involvement with the
 said profiles/ groups, and continually and immediately address these
 transgressions, clarifying that the said profiles/ groups are not operated by CS(COMM) 92/2024 Page 8 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/02/2024 at 22:24:10
 him, and that neither the Plaintiff nor KKR India provide stock trading tips
 or advice over any messaging and/or social media platforms.
 22.9 Considering the repeated and continuing nature of the transgressions
 and the substantial threat posed to the public, the Plaintiff seeks urgent
 interim relief to restrain the unknown persons (Defendant No. 1/ John Doe)
 from creating/operating the social media profiles and/or groups on
 messaging platforms, and seeking blocking of the aforementioned
 profiles/links/ groups. Plaintiff also seeks directions to be issued to social
 media and messaging platforms, including Defendant No. 3 (Telegram), to
 delete all groups/profiles/links engaging in the aforementioned fraudulent
 activities. 23. The Court has noted foregoing submissions. The screenshots
 reproduced above, as well as those annexed to the plaint, reveal that the
 unknown persons, i.e. Defendant No. 1 impleaded as 'John Doe' and
 Defendant No. 2, being the individual purporting to be Mr. Anurag Thakur,
 are clearly interacting with members of the public through various online
 social media profiles and messaging groups by fraudulently using the
 identity of the Plaintiff. The unknown operators of the aforenoted profiles
 and groups are not associated with the Plaintiff or KKR, and have not been
 authorized in any manner to offer financial trading and investment related
 advice on their behalf. They are misrepresenting themselves to the public to
 that effect and engaging in nefarious activities to dupe the unwary public,
 thus effectively eroding the goodwill and reputation of the Plaintiff. 24. In view of the above and considering the public interest involved in
 the matter, the Court is of the opinion that the Plaintiff has demonstrated a
 prima facie case in their favour and in case an ex-parte ad-interim injunction CS(COMM) 92/2024 Page 9 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/02/2024 at 22:24:10
 is not granted, Plaintiff will suffer an irreparable loss. Balance of
 convenience also lies in the favour of Plaintiff, and against the Defendants
 No. 1 and 2. Accordingly, the following directions are issued: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/02/2024 at 22:24:10
 Rejoinder thereto, if any, be filed within two weeks thereafter. 27. Re-notify on 10th July, 2024. SANJEEV NARULA, J
 FEBRUARY 5, 2024
 d.negi CS(COMM) 92/2024 Page 11 of 11 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/02/2024 at 22:24:10