% 28.07.2025
 CM APPL. 44781/2025 (exemption) 1. Allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. Application stands disposed of. W.P.(C) 10829/2025 & CM APPL. 44780/2025 (stay) 3. The present petition has been filed assailing the impugned order dated
 01.03.2025 whereby the account of the petitioner has been declared „Fraud‟. 4. Mr. Jagdeep Sharma, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of
 the petitioner at the outset submits that in the impugned order the petitioner
 has been wrongly described as Ex-Whole Time Director, whereas the
 petitioner had worked only as a Professional Director of M/s Reliance
 Commercial Finance Limited [hereinafter 'RCFL' or 'the company'] and
 that too for three years. 5. He submits that the show cause notice never came to served upon the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 22:38:55
 petitioner and the petitioner learned about the same from a co-Director. In
 that view of the matter, the petitioner could not file a reply to the show cause
 notice. He further contends that even personal hearing has not been afforded
 to the present petitioner. 6. He submits that insofar as company is concerned, the issue has been
 resolved and the matter has been settled with the company. Elaborating on
 his submission, he submits that resolution plan under the Reserve Bank of
 India‟s Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets, 2019 with
 regard to the company was approved finally by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court
 and a Resolution Implementation Memorandum dated 30.09.2022 was
 entered into between the said company, as well as, the person set out in
 Schedule I-Part A of the said memorandum, which includes the respondent
 bank as well. He submits that resolution implementation memorandum has
 already been given effect to. 7. He invites attention of the Court to Clause 4.1.4. of the said
 memorandum, the relevant para of which reads thus: (emphasis supplied)" 8. He submits that since the resolution plan has already been
 implemented, therefore, the respondent bank ought not to have proceeded
 against the present petitioner. 9. He contends that apart from the above, the impugned order is bad also
 for the reason that no personal hearing has been afforded to the petitioner. 10. He places reliance on the decision of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in State Bank of India vs. Rajesh Agarwal & Ors. , (2023) 6 SCC 1, to contend
 that affording personal hearing before classifying the account as „fraud‟ has
 been held to be mandatory. Relevant para of which reads thus: (emphasis supplied) 11. He further contends that Division Bench of this Court in IDBI Bank
 Ltd. v. Gaurav Goel & Ors. , 2025 SCC OnLine Del 935 has also clarified
 that in Rajesh Aggarwal (supra) the Hon‟ble Supreme Court has held that
 granting of hearing means personal hearing. The relevant paragraphs from the said decision reads thus: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 22:38:55
 alteram partem in any other manner." (emphasis supplied) 12. In view of the above, issue notice. Mr. S. K. Rout, learned standing
 counsel appearing on behalf of respondent/Punjab National Bank accepts
 notice. 13. On a pointed query posed by the Court as to whether personal hearing
 has been afforded to the petitioner, Mr. Rout, on instructions, fairly states
 that the personal hearing has not been afforded to the present petitioner and
 the bank is ready to grant such personal hearing to the petitioner as per the
 law settled by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Rajesh Aggarwal (supra) and Gaurav Goel (supra). 14. Having regard to the rival submissions of the learned counsel for the
 parties, and the law laid down in in Rajesh Aggarwal (supra) and Gaurav
 Goel (supra), the present petition is disposed of at this stage itself without
 calling for counter affidavit from the respondent/bank, with the following
 directions: 15 days from today. iii. the respondent/bank or its Fraud Examination Committee shall
 give a notice to the petitioner fixing a date of personal hearing,
 giving two weeks‟ clear time to the petitioner for such hearing. 15. The petition stands disposed of in the above terms. VIKAS MAHAJAN, J
 JULY 28, 2025/N.S. ASWAL

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 22:38:55