PER BENCH: Pradeep Nimwat 2. Since the issues involved in the assessee's appeal for both

the assessment years are almost identical and are almost

common, except the difference in figure, therefore, both these

appeals were heard together with the agreement of both the

parties and are being disposed off by this consolidated order. 3. At the outset, the ld. AR has submitted that the matter in ITA

No. 317/Jodh/2023 may be taken as a lead case for discussions as

the issues involved in the lead case are common and inextricably

interlinked or in fact interwoven and the facts and circumstances of

other cases are identical except the difference in the amount of

penalty in other assessment year. The ld. DR did not raise any

specific objection against taking that case as a lead case. Therefore, for the purpose of the present discussions, the case of ITA No. 317/Jodh/2023 is taken as a lead case. 4. Before moving towards the facts of the case we would like to

mention that the assessee has assailed the appeal in ITA No.

317/Jodh/2023 on the following grounds; 1. That learned CIT 'A' has erred in confirming that assessment
 under section 144 and addition made by AO Rs. 1,70,00,070/- is in
 order. The assessment was made without providing proper opportunity 3 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

 and considering full facts and circumstances of the case. Hence the
 order passed by learned AO be quashed. 2. That the Learned CIT 'A' has erred in confirming that addition of
 Rs. 1,69,01,000/- on account of cash deposited in Banks u/s 69 of the
 Act. The addition was made without following provisions of law and
 considering full facts of the case. Hence the addition made of Rs.
 1,69,01,000/- be deleted. 3. That learned CIT 'A' has erred in confirming Learned AO erred
 in disallowing deduction of Rs. 1,00,000/- as claimed u/s 80C of the IT
 Act. The disallowance is made without considering full facts of the case
 and providing proper opportunity. Hence the addition of Rs. 1,00,000/-
 be deleted." 5. Succinctly, the fact as culled out from the records is that the

assessee is individual and derives income from construction

business. The assessee filed ROI on 02.07.2011 declaring therein

total income of Rs. 3,89,070/-. The assessee has shown income

from business of Rs. 4,89,072/- and claimed deduction under

chapter VI of Rs. 1,00,000/-. The ROI was processed u/s 143(1) of

the Act on 29.12.2011. 5.1 Information has been received from Syndicate Bank, M. I.

Road, Subhash Marg, C-scheme Jaipur in this case. Therefore, the

a notice for providing information under section 133(6) of the Act

was issued vide letter dated 12.12.2017 during the course of

assessment proceeding for A. Y. 2015-16 in the instant case. The 4 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

ld. AO noted that huge cash aggregating to Rs. 1,23,26,000/- deposited during the financial year 2010-11 in the assessee's bank

account no. 84501010007333 at Syndicate Bank, Udaipur. Further

as per information gathered from ITS details it is noticed that cash

aggregating to Rs. 45,75,000/- also deposited in the assessee's

bank account no. 7721130000000 at Oriental Bank of Commerce,

Udaipur. On perusal of relevant documents available on record, it

was noticed that the assessee has shown income from business of

Rs. 4,89,072/- showing that regular books of account of business

are not mentioned. "Considering all these corroborative evidence,

it is evident that cash amounting Rs. 1,23,26,000/- has been

deposited on various dates in assessee's current account No.

84501010007333 at Syndicate Bank, Udaipur and cash

aggregating to Rs.45,75,000/- also deposited in the assessee's

bank account No.7721130000000 at Oriental Bank of Commerce. Udaipur. The source of the cash deposits remains unexplained in

view of income declared by the assessee and also books of

accounts not maintained by the assessee. In view of the above

stated facs, it was reason to believe that the sum of Rs. Pradeep Nimwat

1,69,01,000/- chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for the

A.Y. 2011-12 within the meaning of section 147 of 1. T. Act, 1961 . 5.2 Since the income chargeable to tax has escaped the

assessment, proceedings under the provisions of section 147 of

the I.T. Act, 1961, were initiated and notice u/s. 148 of the I.T.Act,

1961 was issued by the DCIT, Cirele-2, Udaipur after according

necessary approval of Pr.Commissioner of Income-tax, Udaipur

vide his office letter No.3587 dated 15.03.2018 which was served

upon the assessee through email and speed post. Subsequently,

notice u/s. 142(1) alongwith a questionnaire vide dated 13.08.2018

were issued to the assessee and sent through email and speed

post, asking the assessee to furnish relevant details, certain

explanation and supporting documentary evidences. Simultaneously, the requisition of information under the provisions

of section 133(6) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 has been pursued

from various bank branches in the ease of the assessee. But, in

response to the notice u/s 142(1) issued to the assessee, nobody

attended nor replied. Pradeep Nimwat

5.3 However, for sake of convenience and in the interest of

natural justice, another notice as 142(1) issued on 29.10.2018

giving further opportunity of being heard and accordingly. requested to furnish the reply on or before 05.11.2018. The

assessee was also requested to show cause that in case of failure

to avail of this last and final opportunity of being heard and of in

making compliance of notices/questionnaire issued to him earlier

and in case of non compliance of this notice/part compliance of this

notice, as to why assessment in the case of assessee may not be

completed as an ex-parte assessment under the provisions of section 144 of the IT Act.1961 and the assessee was required to

show cause as to why he may not be taxed as per the provisions

of IT Act, 1961 on the basis of details/information and material

available with this office. However, no compliance has been made

by the assessee of such notices. 5.4 The assessee was requested to submit the details of cash

deposited, genuineness of transactions, source of fund and

relevant supporting evidences in respect of particulars of income

and other information available on record but the assessee has not 7 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

replied the same. The return of income filed by his personal ID and

digitally signed. The digital signature must be obtained by

assessee after submitting required documents of identity and

further necessary verification. All the related transactions appeared

in his name or his bank account and his signature were made on

the relevant documents and his documents of identity used for

opening of bank accounts, Since the assessee neither attended

nor submitted any reply. This shows that the assessee has nothing

to say but to accept the findings as pointed out on the basis of

documents and information available on record. 5.5 The ld. AO noted that the assessee has been allowed more

than sufficient time and adequate opportunities of being heard and

to defend his case by explaining the nature and source of cash

deposited in his bank accounts, referred to above, the assessee

has not furnished his explanation in regard to nature and source of

cash deposited in his bank accounts. From the s of the case

elaborately discussed above that the assessee has been provided

with more than sufficient time and adequate opportunities of being

heard/defend his case by furnishing nature and source of cash 8 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

deposits in bank accounts, even upto the last few days before the

date of time barring for completion of the assessment in the case

of the assessee but the assessee did not bother to furnish even a

single reply/submission. As is evident from the facts of the case of

the assessee that since inception of proceedings in the case of the

assessee, the assessee totally remained non co-operative towards

furnishing requisite details/information/clarification and explanation

sought for from time to time. The case of the assessee is time

barred one and the limitation for completion of assessment in this

case is expiring on 31.12.2018 as such the undersigned has left no

alternate but to complete this assessment as an ex-parte under the

provisions of section 144 of the I.T. Act, 1961 on the basis of

details/material/information and supporting documentary evidences

available with ld. AO. During the course of assessment

proceedings, it is noticed that total cash of Rs.1.23.26,000/- deposited on various dates in assessee's current account

No.84501010007333 at Syndicate Bank, Udaipur and cash

aggregating to Rs 45,75,000/- also deposited in the asseesee's

bank account No.7721130000000 at Oriental Bank of Commerce. Udaipur as per information available on record and further 9 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

information gathered from respective banks. The assessee was

requested to submit the details of cash deposited, genuineness of

transactions, sources of fund and relevant supporting evidences

but he had shown ignorance about these cash deposits. Since the

cash has been deposited in the bank accounts of the assessee,

therefore, onus is on him to explain source of cash deposits and

prove genuineness of the same but the assessee has failed to

discharge his onus. But the assessee has not furnished any reply /

explanation in this regard. On the basis of facts and

circumstances, it is evident that the assessee has failed to

discharge the burden of proof regarding cash deposits in the Bank

accounts. In absence of any evidence and failure to produce any

reply, details or documents, the total cash deposited of Rs. 1,69,01,000/- in the bank accounts is held to be unexplained credit

from undisclosed sources within meaning under the provisions of section 68 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. During the course of

assessment proceedings, it is noticed that the assessee has

claimed deduction of Rs.1,00,000/-under chapter VI-A in the return

of income but no details or documentary evidences furnished in

this regard. Therefore, Rs. 1,00,000/- is disallowed and added to 10 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

the total income for the year under consideration treating bogus

expenses/investment for claiming deduction. 6. Aggrieved from the order of AO, the assessee preferred an

appeal before the ld. CIT(A). Apropos to the grounds so raised the

relevant finding of the ld. CIT(A) is reiterated here in below: 7. As the assessee did not find any favour from the order of the

ld. CIT(A), the assessee has preferred the present appeal before

this Tribunal on the ground as reproduced hereinabove. To support 11 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

the various grounds so raised by the ld. AR of the assessee, has

filed the written submissions and the same is reproduced herein

below. 1. Appellant is an individual assessee. 2. Appellant is in private service . 3. On behalf of appellant someone else filed his return of income by
 misusing his KYC documents on 02.07.2011 declaring income of Rs
 3,89,070/-. The Income declared is from Business and Profession Rs
 4,89,072/-, and claimed deduction u/s 80C of Rs 1,00,000/- 4. Assessee's case is reopened u/s 147 / 148 in view of large cash
 deposits/deposits in Bank Account No 845010007333 at Syndicate
 Bank and Rs 45,75,000/- in Bank Account No 77211300000000 at
 Oriental Bank of Commerce Udaipur. 5. However due to frustration and depression that despite his appearing
 personally before Department and submitting all required documents
 he could not get any positive reply and huge addition of Rs 76,55,297/-
 has been made. Further in view of his small income he is only pulling
 on his life with lot of struggle, he could file reply to various notices and
 assessment was completed with following huge addition u/s 144 vide
 order dated 22.02.2018 : 6. Being aggrieved by these addition first appeal was filed before CIT
 Appeal which has following grounds : 7. However due to financial constraints/reasons,appellant could not retain
 consultant, hence no submission could be made before CIT A and CIT
 A confirmed the aforesaid addition again. 8. Being aggrieved by these present appeal is filed, which has following
 grounds : The assessment was made without providing proper opportunity and
 considering full facts and circumstances of the case. Hence the order
 passed by the Learned AO be quashed. 2. That the Learned CIT 'A' has erred in confirming addition of Rs.
 1,69,01,000/- treating the cash deposited in banks as Cash Credit u/s section 69 of the Act. The addition was made without following
 provisions of law and considering full facts of the case. Hence addition
 of Rs 1,69,01,000/- made be deleted, 3. That Learned CIT 'A' has erred in confirming disallowance of
 claim of Rs. 1,00,000/- made u/s 80C of the I T Act . The
 disallowance is made without considering full facts of the case and
 providing proper opportunity. Hence the addition of Rs 1,00,000/- be
 deleted. OUR SUBMISSION 1. IT is respectfully submitted that all additions in this case is
 made on the basis of fraudulent return filed by Shree Bharat Bomb by
 misusing KYC of Sh Pradeep Nimawat. In view of above, we are
 submitting in following to establish that it is Bharat Bomb who misused
 the ID Proof of appellant, opened various bank account, various
 trading concern and obtained loan and bought properties in his name.
 Hence instead of submitting on each ground of appeal, we request
 your honour to make common submission covering all grounds of
 appeal. Pradeep Nimwat 2. We are submitting following documents out of which maximum
were submitted during assessment proceedings : mentioned that case is reopened only to meet contingency of adverse
decision of higher authorities in case of Nitin Parikh and Pradeep
Nimawat for A Y 2013-14. g) Copy of Assessment Order of Bharat Bomb for AY 2016-17 in
which Bharat Bomb's confirmation of fact that he misused name of
assessee for his own benefitand it is he who operated these bank
accounts is recorded. h) Copy of CIT Appeal order in case of Deepak Wahi in which in on
similar facts and circumstance it was held that Mr. Bharat Bomb
operated these account and additions cannot be sustained in the
hands of assessee. i) Copy of ITAT Order of Honourable Jodhpur ITAT in
ITA/263/Jodhpur/2023 and ITA/264/Jodhpur/2023 in case of Nitin
Parikh in which additions made in the hands of assessee is deleted
which were made on similar facts and circumstances. j) Copy of Debt Recovery Tribunal Order in case of Canara Bank
vs M.s Shrinath Traders (sole Proprietor Pradeep Nimawat) k) Copy of Statement of Pradeep Nimawat Recorded before
ED/CBI l) Copy of Reasons Recorded for Assessment Year 2011-12 3. We are submitting back ground of the case as under : Thus many companies and firms was used by him for round tripping of
proceeds of credits obtained from bank. He also used various means to inflate income of these persons by
providing professional receipts, higher interest receipts on FDR made 15 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

in the name of these persons from out of proceed of loans and them
refinancing the same by obtaining bank overdrafts. Further he used these KYC documents in getting digital signature of
these persons, which in turn was used by him and his staff for
validating Income Tax Return and Companies Act Return. He has also filed return of these persons disclosing income from
interest (not fully) , by setting interest on OD against FDR against this
income, and using 44AD mode for declaring business income and
used interest paid on these fictitious house loan as an allowable
deduction. He used all these Fake bank accounts for obtaining loans from bank
by using fabricated title deed of various existing and non- existing
properties, discounting of cheques of non-existing government
departments and private parties, discounting fake Letter of Credit of
various banks. Besides this he also created large no of sale deed of immovable
properties for high values (though incomplete) and raised housing
loans against this. He used all funds so generated in financing various projects and
persons and maintaining aforesaid repayment cycle. Further he made large no of fixed deposits in the name of various
individual and raised overdraft facilities against them. This entire scam was carried out with the help of bank officers. It is respectfully submitted except few person, all persons whose KYC
was used by him are unaware about these operations and bank
account of these persons were operated by the staff of Bharat Bomb. Further he claimed refund of Tax Credit so generated on these
fictitious incomes, and deposited refund in the same bank account in
which all these transactions are made. However as soon as CBI and ED stepped in, they called all these
person's whose account were used by Mr. Bharat Bomb for
interrogation and in his confession before CBI/ED Mr. Bharat Bomb
agreed that by using KYC of these persons he opened and operated
these accounts. Further after making preliminary inquiry from these
persons CBI/ED filed an FIR against Mr. Bharat Bomb and Bank 16 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

Officers. Lateron Charge sheet is filed against him and various bank
officers. Presently ED and CBI both are pursing cases against these
banks. SPECIFIC TO THE APPLELLANT 1. Mr. Bharat Bomb opened following Bank account by using KYC
of appellant: a) Syndicate Bank Udaipur
Bank Account No84501010007333 b) Oriental Bank of Commerce : Bank Account :No. 7721130000000 2. On Page 36 of PO of ED ( Paper Book Page No ) contains list
of partial fake firms used and formed by Shree Bharat in the name of
Appellant Bharat , which is as under : 4. In response to notice from CBI/ED, Mr. Pradeep Nimawat
informed that these account were not opened or operated by him and
CBI may take whatever action regarding this, he has no objection. 5. As remaining other bank accounts haveno balance, ED could
not recover any amount from those accounts. 6. It is respectfully submitted that Learned AO even after coming
to knowledge of facts and submission of the appellant that these bank
accounts are opened and operated by Shree Bharat Bomb, despite
having ample time at his command has not made inquiry from the
Bank and obtained specific information about the correct position that
whatever appellant stated is correct or not and of cross examination of
his so called employer despite having ample time, also to fail verify the
fact that appellant is not doing service there. 7. It is further respectively submitted that Salary Income , Interest
Income is added on basis of entries found in Form 26AS, on which
appellant has no control. 8. It is further respectively submitted in similar case of Shree
Deepak Wahi PAN No AACPW6790R, learned CIT (A) of NefAC
deleted various addition with following remark : a) Regarding Professional Receipt : 4.2. I have considered the facts of the case, assessment order and
appellant's submissions. The AO noted that ITS data pertaining to F.Y.
2015-16, relevant to A.Y. 2016-17, showed that the assessee received
income at Rs.24,75,000/- on account of fees for professional &
technical services from M/s Rajshikhar Material Trading LLP, and the
TDS on such amount was deducted at Rs.2,47,500/- u/s 194J of the
Act. The assessee stated, before the AO, that he did not provide any
professional and other consultancy to the aforesaid firm nor did he
receive any income from anyone, during the year, on this count.
However, reply furnished by the assessee did not find favour of the 18 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

AO who mentioned that income so credited was reflected on
assessee's own PAN and his own bank accounts which were opened
by the assessee by using his personal IDs. Accordingly, the AO made
the addition of Rs. 24,75,000/- to the total income of the assessee
under the head 'Income from Business or Profession' for the year
under consideration. In the written submissions uploaded on the ITBA
Portal, the appellant has reiterated the same claim, as placed before
the AO, that he did not provide any professional and other consultancy
to the aforesaid firm nor did he receive any income from anyone,
during the year, on this count. The appellant has contended that
merely because assessee's Form 26AS shows certain receipts do not
mean that the same pertained to him. The appellant gave details of his
bank accounts which were shown in the ITR filed for the AY 2016-17.
The appellant has submitted that Mr. Bharat Bomb, who file his ITR
and good friend, has misused his documents like driving licence,
Aadhar, PAN etc. and fraudulently used the assessee's name and
PAN No. for opening bank account to defraud banks. The appellant
has furnished copy of FIR lodged by the ED/CBI against Mr Bharat
Bomb wherein his confessional statement is recorded asserting that
the name of persons whose KYC were used for opening fake firms,
opening bank accounts and doing fake transactions are his family
members. The appellanthas claimed that he submitted all details
before the AO and requested him to call Mr. Bharat Bomb for cross
examination; however no action was taken by the AO. The appellant
has further stated that Mr. Bharat Bomb already arrested by CBI/ED
and various inquiries are going on against him and he himself
confessed that he misused KYC documents in opening various bank
fraudulent bank accounts in assessee's name. The appellant has
further submitted that he filed a civil suit against Syndicate Bank,
whose officer allowed these fraudulent activities. The appellant has
submitted that he has not claimed credit for Tax Deducted at Source in
his return of income. The appellant has vehemently denied rendering
any professional service to anyone including Rajshikhar Trading Co
LLP. On careful consideration of the facts of the case,appellant's
submissions and details brought on record by the appellant, I am
inclined to agree with the appellant's claim. From the facts and details
brought on record, it is clear that Mr. Bharat Bomb misused name /
KYC for opening fake firms, opening bank accounts and doing fake
transactions in the name of appellant. This fact gets support from the
confessional statement of Mr. Bharat Bomb recorded before the
ED/CBI, copy of which is supplied by the appellant in the submissions 19 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

filed. This very fact was before the AO, however, he did not give much
importance because account opening Form bears signature of the
assessee and KYC details pertained to the assessee. Secondly, Form
26AS of the assessee showed details of amount credited by M/s
Rajshikhar Material Trading LLP and details of TDS deducted thereon. 4.2.1. As regards the AO's concern that account opening Form bears
signature of the assessee and KYC details pertained to the assessee,
I find that once it is proved that Mr. Bharat Bomb misused name / KYC
for opening fake firms, opening bank accounts and doing fake
transactions, including the name and details of the appellant, there
remains no doubt that the appellant was also a victim of wrong doing
of Mr. Bharat Bomb. Not a single and independent concrete evidences
has been brought on record, by the AO, to prove that the appellant
himself visited the bank branch and put his signature on Form for
account opening. In a present scenario, where technology has the
power to do many things, therefore, using someone's signature is not
exceptional. Facts and details indicating that, in the present case, Mr.
Bharat Bomb has misused name / KYC, including signature of the
appellant, to open bank account. Moreover, I find that the AO failed to
take note of the fact that the appellant has filed civil suit before the
Court, against the Syndicate Bank, for allowing Mr. Bharat Bomb to
open bank account, in appellant's name, by using his KYC details
without his consent. It may also be noted that if the Bank officials have
been claiming that the bank account in question was opened by the
appellant himself , in that case also, the AO should have provided an
opportunity to the appellant to cross examine bank officials. Thus, the
AO violated the principle of natural justice. The Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries 281 CTR 241 held
that not allowing assessee to cross-examine witnesses, by
adjudicating authority, though statements of those witnesses were
made as basis of impugned order, amounted in serious flaw which
made impugned order nullity as it amounted to violation of principles of
natural justice. The precise observation of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
is as under:- Considering the facts of the case, I have no doubt that in the present
case; the bank accounts were opened by Mr. Bharat Bomb
fraudulently, in the name of the appellant, by misusing his
name/signature and KYC without the appellant's consent. 4.2.2. As regards the AO's concern that assessee's Form 26AS
showed amount credited by M/s Rajshikhar Material Trading LLP and
details of TDS deducted thereon, I find that there are numerous
judicial precedents wherein it has been specifically held that no
addition can be made merely on the basis of entries reflecting in the
Form 26AS. Form 26AS is a statement that provides details of any
amount deducted as TDS or TCS from various sources of income of a
taxpayer. Because Form 26AS is readily available with the AO, it was
overlooked that mistakes often creep into this document, solely
because of errors committed by other people, not the assessee. Tax
deduction may go wrong, if deductor fails to deduct or gives wrong
PAN number of deductee orTDS deducted on the receipts which do
not pertain to particular assessment year. But it has been seen that in
number of instances, due to wrong deduction of TDS for whatever
reasons, the assessee suffers. Thus, it cannot be said that entries
reflecting in the Form 26AS are fool proof every time. Hence, the 21 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

judiciary has been straight in pointing that the revenue cannot raise
any demand on the basis of difference between the auto populated
amounts on income tax portal and GST portal without further
examining the reasons for such difference. The Allahabad bench of
the CESTAT in Kush Constructions v. CGST [2020] 118
taxmann.com 164, in the context of the demand raised on the basis of
difference found in figures reflected in ST-3 returns and Form 26AS,
held that the Revenue cannot raise the demand on the basis of such
difference without examining the reasons for said difference and
without establishing that the entire amount received by the appellant,
as reflected in said returns in the Form 26AS, being consideration for
services provided and without examining whether the difference was
because of any exemption or abatement, since it is not legal to
presume that the entire differential amount was on account of
consideration for providing services. Likewise the Kolkata Bench of the ITAT in Mercury Car Rentals (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2019] 71 ITR (Tri.) (SN) 78 held that based on Form
26AS alone, no additions can be made. This can at best be a starting
point for necessary verification but it cannot, on standalone basis,
justify the impugned addition. The Hon'ble Chennai Bench 'A' in the case of P. K. Rajasekar vs. ITO 2016] 74 taxmann.com 151 (Chennai - Trib.) held that where
assessee claimed that there was wrong credit entry by payer-client in
Form 26AS, Assessing Officer had to examine its genuineness. Thus, from ratio laid down in the above judicial precedents, it is clear
that no addition can be made simply on the basis of entries reflected in
the Form 26AS. It is the duty of the AO to make further verification
where the assessee disputes the entries reflecting in the Form 26AS
and only after verification, if he finds any discrepancy in assessee's
claim, than only he can make any addition. Here, I may refer to the decision of the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in
the case of Court On Its Own Motion vs. CIT [2013] 31 taxmann.com
31 (Delhi) wherein the Hon'ble Court considered, on its own and in
response to a Public Interest Litigation, difficulties faced by assessees
after computerization and central processing of income tax returns and
issued seven mandamus. These seven mandamus include the issues
relating to entries reflecting in the Form 26AS and wrong deduction of 22 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

TDS by the Deductor. Thus, it has been concerns of the court that
regarding processing of returns by CPC and in certain cases there has
been issues, particularly issue of wrong deduction of TDS and
inclusion of wrong receipts in the form 26AS. Thus, the Court
specifically held that the assessee must not suffer from these technical
issues and the same should be solved promptly. In the instant case, the AO has not carried out any independent inquiry
with M/s Rajshikhar Material Trading LLP regarding professional
services provided by the appellant to it. It is not the case that M/s
Rajshikhar Material Trading LLP confirmed the fact of rendering
professional services provided by the appellant to it and the amount
credited /paid by it against such services. In view of the facts discussed and judicial precedents cited supra, it
isheld that the AO is not justified in holding that the bank account,
whereinamount of Rs. 24,75,000/- credited by M/s Rajshikhar Material
Trading LLP onaccount of fees for professional & technical services, is
belonged to theappellant. The appellant has satisfactorily proved that
this bank account wasnot opened by him and only his name and KYC
were used by Mr. Bharat Bombfor opening this bank account. Thus,
amount credited in this bank accountdoes not represent the appellant
and the addition made at Rs. 24,75,000/- isdirected to be deleted.
Ground No. 1 raised by the appellant, regarding thisissue, is allowed. b) Regarding addition in Interest Income on Account of amount
reflected in Form 26AS : and email Id. A person doing something wrong would never give such
correct details of person whose name and KYC are used for this
purpose. When the appellant has no communication regarding
opening of FD, details of interest credit, maturity, etc. how he could
knowabout this fraud. Moreover, the very fact of the appellant's
acceptance before the Bank Authorities and Authorities of ED/CBI only
goes to prove that the appellant never ever claimed these FD and
interest credit therein as his belonging or income. In fact the appellant,
as soon as came to know about the fact that his name and KYC
details were used by Mr. Bharat Bomb for opening bank accounts, has
denied to have opened any bank accounts in his name. It may be
noted that investigation agencies called the appellant alongwith other
persons, who's KYC were used in opening of these account, and
these persons categorically denied of opening any bank account nor
made claim on money found deposited in these account and allowed
investigation agencies to forfeit it. Even investigation agency held that
the appellant and other victimsare not co-accused in this process. It
may also be noted that Mr. Bharat Bomb already accepted this fact
before CBI/ ED and affected banks also filed criminal complaint again
him, on the ground that these accounts were opened by misusing KYC
of persons known to Mr. Bharat Bomb. All these facts prove that these
bank accounts do not belong to the appellant nor any amounts of FD
and interest credited on maturity belong to the appellant. Moreover, it is already discussed that no addition can be made merely
on the basis of entries reflected in the Form 26AS. Form 26AS is a
statement that provides details of any amount deducted as TDS or
TCS from various sources of income of a taxpayer. Because Form
26AS is readily available with the AO, it is forgotten that mistakes
often creep into this document, solely because of errors committed by
other people, not the assessee. In the instant case, since PAN of the
appellant is registered with the bank, therefore, interest credited on FD
by the bank along with tax deducted thereon reflected in the Form
26AS of the appellant, but when the accounts itself are not opened 25 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

andoperated by the appellant, then the appellant cannot be held
owner of the bank account or amount credited therein. Here I may refer to the decision of the Hon'ble ITAT Mumbai Bench E
in the case of Administrator of Estate of Lt. EduljiFramrozeDinshaw vs.
CIT [2019] 103 taxmann.com 452 (Mumbai - Trib.) which held that if
under provision of section 4 an amount does not bear character of
income and, hence, is not chargeable to tax, then same cannot be
converted into an 'income' only because payer of sum deducts tax
under misconception of law. The head note is reproduced as under:- 6,99,10,134/- on account of Peak Balance (A/c. No. 84501010008262
of Syndicate Bank), Rs. 4,99,40,698/- on account of Peak Balance
(A/c. No. 84502010083668 of Syndicate Bank) and Rs. 2,48,013/- on
account of Peak Balance (A/c. No. 01691310000019 of Canara Bank,
after stating that the assessee failed to furnish any detail regarding
transactions appearing in these bank accounts. In the written
submissions, uploaded on the ITBA Portal, the appellant had
reiterated that these accounts, in which all these transaction were
carried out, do not belong to the appellant. The appellant had stressed
that he has not formed any firm in the name and style of Deepak
Traders as his sole proprietorship concern as per provision of Rajasthan VAT Act -2003, one person cannot have registration of two
sole proprietorship firms in his /her name, appellant already got one
registered sole proprietorship firm in the Name & Style of M/s Marble
2000 INC under the provision of Rajasthan VAT Act -2003 since
04/01/2000. He further submitted that someone obtained registration
of Deepak Traders with same address of the Appellant w.e.f.
25/11/2011, however the registration of same was cancelled with
effect from 31st March 2012. Mr. Deepak Wahi (Appellant) is holder of
IEC Code, which is mandatory for carrying out import in the country
and the aforesaid IEC Code is issued in the name of Marble 2000 INC,
which was issued on 15/02/2001. The appellant has further submitted
that only one IEC can be issued on one PAN. Form 15CA/I5CB, which
is mandatory for foreign remittance is available on the e-filling site of
appellant, however same cannot be downloaded without having
acknowledgement number of uploading of form or date of submission,
towhom such remittance is made, and then requested learned AO to
obtain copy of Form 15CA/15CB from Bank including shipping Bill by
his letter dated 30/11/2018, however no action on his request was
taken by AO. The appellant has pointed out that Mr. Bharat Bomb
himself confessed that he created aforesaid Deepak Traders for
obtaining various credit facilities from bank by using KYC of appellant.
Considering the facts of the case, assessment order and appellant's
written submissions, I am inclined to agree with the appellant's claim.
As in the instant case, it is already established that Mr. Bharat Bomb
misused name / KYC for opening fake firms, opening bank accounts 27 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

and doing fake transactions. These facts get support from the
confessional statement of Mr. Bharat Bomb recorded before the
ED/CBI, copy of which is supplied, by the appellant, in his written
submissions. This very fact was before the AO; however, he did not
give much importance by stating that the appellant failed to furnish any
detail regarding transactions appearing in these bank accounts.
The information on scam is also in public domain from where the AO
couldhave taken some cue. However, from the facts and details
brought on record,it is clear that the appellant has not formed any firm
in the name and style ofDeepak Traders because the appellant
already got one registered soleproprietorship firm in the name & style
of M/s Marble 2000 INC under theprovision of Rajasthan VAT Act -
2003 since 04/01/2000 and one person cannothave registration of two
sole proprietorship firms. In these bank accounts, allthe financial
transactions are related to Deepak Traders, which wasfraudulently
opened by using the appellant's name and KYC details by Mr.Bharat
Bomb. These facts clears that these bank accounts did not belong
tothe appellant nor do any financial transactions, appearing in these
bankaccounts, belong to the appellant. 6.3. At this juncture, I may refer to the decision of the Hon'ble ITAT
Mumbai Bench 'E' (Special Bench) rendered in the case of GTC
Industries Ltd. v. ACIT [2017] 80 taxmann.com 284 (Mumbai - Trib.)
(SB). The Hon'ble Mumbai Bench specifically held that where
revenue made addition to assessee's income on the ground that
cigarettes manufactured by it were sold at a price higher than MRP
and said amount of premium was deposited in fictitious bank accounts
belonging to assessee, in absence of any evidence on record that
those bank accounts were in fact controlled by assessee, impugned
addition was to be set aside. The head note from this judgment is
reproduced as under:- From the above findings recorded in the Mr. Bharat Bomb's case while
completing the assessment for the AY 2013-14, it is clear that Sh. Bharat
Bomb used KYC of many individuals and operated various bank
accounts which were misused in opening these accounts and the
present appellant wasalso a victim of this fraudulent done by Mr. Bharat
Bomb. This fact further gets support from the Mr. Bharat Bomb's
Confessional statement recorded before the ED. For the sake of clarity,
relevant part of Sh. Bharat Bomb's statement recorded on 04/11/2016
before ED is reproduced as under:- 6.1. In view of the facts discussed above and judicial precedents cited
supra, it is held that the AO is not justified in holding that bank account
No.84501010008262 of Syndicate Bank, A/c. No.84502010083668 of
Syndicate Bank and A / c No. 0169131000019 of Canara Bank,
belonged to the appellant. The AO has not done due diligence to cross
verify the 15CA/CB forms, allegedly issued by the appellant. This form
involves three parties who are (i) The remitter, (ii) The Chartered
Accountant and (iii) The Bank Officer. Once the appellant denied these
forms all together, the AO must have summoned the Bank Officer and
CA who have signed these forms which the AO failed. On the other
hand, the appellant has satisfactorily proved that these bank accounts
were not opened by him and only his name and KYC were used by Mr.
Bharat Bomb for opening these bank accounts. Thus, financial
transactions appearing/credited in these bank accounts do not represent
the appellant, the additions made at Rs.6,99,10,134/-on account of Peak
Balance (A/c.No.84501010008262 of Syndicate Bank), Rs. 4,99,40,698/-
on account of Peak Balance (A/c. No. 84502010083668 of Syndicate
Bank) and Rs 2,48,013/-on account of Peak Balance
(A/c.No.0169131000019 of Canara Bank, are directed to be deleted.
Ground no. 3 raised by the appellant, regarding these issues, is allowed. Pradeep Nimwat 9. In the case of Nitin Parikh appeal ITA/263/Jodhpur/2023 and
ITA/264/Jodhpur/2023 Honourable ITAT Jodhpur deleted entire additions
made with following remark : 10. In order to further explain how bank officers and Mr. Bharat Bomb
misuse the name of appellant and other persons we are submitting copies of
following orders of Debt Recovery Tribunal Jaipur : Page 3
Para 10. The matter where the credit facilityas claimed in the O.A. in favor of
the defendants and the defendants filed an application with bill of exchange
Annexure A-3 to A-22. The Most alarming document is Demand Promissory
Note as Annexure A-23 of the applications which bears signature of Pradeep
Nimawat but the entire details are missing in the Demand Promissory Note,
Annexure A-23. Pradeep Nimwat

Para 11. Similar is the position of Annexure A/24 Hypothecation Agreement
running from Page 35 to 54 and this agreement is completely blank even the
name of borrower, the account sanctioned details of hypothecation, details of
stock, the rate of interest etc. is not mentioned. Even some of the pages are not
signed and having seal of the defendants. Annexure A/25 is the Charges and
hypothecation deed/agreement is signed by the defendants but again it do not
bears the amount so sanctioned, the rate of interest etc.
Page 4
Para 14- After having pursued the documents I am of the considered view that
the demand promissory note and the hypothecation agreement at Annexure
A/23 & A/24 are completely blank documents so, for this fault only the bank
officers are responsible and not the borrower. Para 15. The blank agreement or a blank Demand Promissory note even
though signed cannot be used for the purpose of recovery as it is not legally
created and executed documents in the eye of law.
 Para 16. According this Original Application stand disposed of as dismissed. In view of above, we request your goodself to kind delete all the additions
made in the Income of Assessee except Rs 1,80,000/- which the appellant
offered as his original income and oblige." 8. To support the contention so raised in the written submission

the ld. AR of the assessee has placed reliance on the following

evidences: 2015-16 & 2011-12 in ITA No. 264/Jodh/2023 & ITA No.
 263/Jodh/2023

10 Copy of DRT Order in OA No. 84 of 2018 in Canara Bank vs. 361 364
 Shree Nakoda Construction Co (Prop Pradeep Nimawat)

11 Copy of Statement Recorded at CBI/ED of Pradeep Nimawat 9. The ld. AR of the assessee in addition to the above written

submission particularly drawn our attention the order of the debt

recovery tribunal order dated 18.11.2022 wherein the DRT in the

recovery petition filed by the Canara Bank for an amount of Rs. 25,86,22,917/- against the assessee observed that [ assessee

paper book page(APB) 363 ] "para 10-> The most alarming

document is Demand and Promissory note at Annexure A-23 of

the application which bears signatures of Shri Pradeep Nimavat

but the entire details are missing in the Demand Promissory

Note, Annexure A-23. Para 11. ->Similar is the position of

Annexure A-24 Hypothecation Agreement running from page no 35

to 54 and this agreement is completely bank even the name of the

borrower, the account sanctioned details of the hypothetical,

details of stock, the rate of interest etc., is not mentioned. Para 14- 37 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

> After having perused the documents, I am of the considered view

that the demand and promissory note and the hypothecation

agreement at Annexure A/23 & A/24 are completely blank

document so, for this fault only the bank officers are responsible

and not the borrower. The ld. AR of the assessee referring to the

order of the Director of Enforcement (ED) [APB-94] wherein the

name of the firm run by Shri Bharat Bomb by using the KYC

documents of the assessee and the same name of firm is referred

in the order of the DRT. Thus, it is beyond doubt that Shri Bharat

Bomb was using the KYC for making the fraud in the names of the

various parties as referred in the order of the ED and the assessee

is one of the parties mentioned at Sr.no. 4 out of the list of 44

parties mentioned in the order of the ED. The ld. AR of the

assessee also drawn attention to the page 278 of the paper book

wherein the reasons were recorded considering the statement of

the assessee recorded. The relevant part of the reasons recorded

by the revenue to re-open the case of the assessee is reiterated

herein below which he read while arguing the case of the

assessee: 5. I have carefully examined the facts of the instance case and also
 carefully pursued the relevant documents obtained from the concerned
 bank; i.e. bank statements, bank account opening forms, KYC etc., it is
 indeed true that Shri Bharat Bomb, the assessee found indulge in the
 Syndicate Bank scheme and has been sentenced to imprisonment on
 account of his indulgement of Syndicate Bank scam. On deep
 examination / verification of the fact of the case and material available
 in this office and after properly applying mind it has been concluded
 that the assessee has made total cash deposits of 2,46,90,000 in the
 saving bank accounts opened by him in the name of Shri Pradeep
 Nimawat in the bank branches of Oriental Bank of Commerce and
 Syndicate Bank. 11.2 As submitted in the paper book filed by the ld. AR of the

assessee that in one of the case of Shri Deepak Wahi wherein on

the similar facts and circumstances it was held that Mr. Bharat

Bomb operated these account and additions cannot be sustained

in the hands of the assessee this decision has been given by ld. CIT(A)/NFAC vide order dated 08.09.2023(APB311). Not only tha

the Co-ordinate Bench of this tribunal vide order dated 20.12.2023 43 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

in the case of Nitin Parikh vs. DCIT in ITA No. 264/Jodh/2023 &

263/Jodh/2023 has decided the related cash issue. 11.3 Since, the ld. DR did not controvert the that a) In the similar set of facts NFAC/CIT(A) in case of Deepak

 Wahi accepted the fact that addition cannot be made in

 the hands of the assessee when he has in a statement

 recorded that he has not done this transaction. The

 finding of the ld. NFAC is reiterated herein below

 "6.6. In view of the facts discussed above and judicial
 precedents cited supra, it is held that the AO is not justified in
 holding that bank account no. xxxx of Syndicate bank, A/c no. xxx of
 Syndicate Bank and A/c no. xxxx of Canara Bank, belonged to the
 appellant. The AO has not done dud diligence to cross verify the
 15CA/CB forms, allegedly issued by the appellant. This forms
 involves three parties who are (i) The remitter, (ii) The Chartered
 Accountant (iii) The Bank officer. Once the appellant denied these
 forms all together, the AO must have summonded the Bank officer
 and CA who have signed these forms which AO failed. On the other
 hand, the appellant has satisfactorily proved that these bank
 accounts were not opened by him and only his name and KYC were
 used by Mr. Bharat Bomb for opening these bank accounts. Thus,
 financial, transactions appearing / credited in these bank accounts
 do not represent the appellant, the additions made at Rs.
 6,99,10,134/- on account on peak Balance (A/c no. xxxx of
 Syndicate Bank, Rs. 4,99,40,698/- on account of peak balance (A/c
 no. xxxx of synidicate bank ) Rs. 2,48,013/- on account of peak
 balance (A/c no. xxxx ) of Canara Bank are directed to be deleted.
 Ground no. 3 raised by the appellant, regarding this issue is
 allowed. b) Categorically finding recorded by the ld. AO while re- opening the case of Shri Bharat Bomb wherein it has 44 ITA Nos. 317 & 318/Jodh/2023 Pradeep Nimwat

 been accepted that the cash deposited in the case of the

 assessee [ Shri Pradeep Nimawat ] is done by Shri Bharat

 Bomb and not by the assessee. c) Finding of co-ordinate bench in the case of Nitin Parikh

 vs. DCIT in ITA No. 264/Jodh/2023 & ITA No.

 263/Jodh/2023 dated 20.12.2023 having similar set of

 facts where in the co ordinate bench has in detailed held

 as under : Pradeep Nimwat 12. Based on the above decision and considering the discussion

so recorded here in above and on being consistent with the

decision of the Co-ordinate Bench, we consider the ground Nos. 1

to 3 in ITA No. 317/Jodh/2023 as allowed. 13. The fact of the case in ITA No. 318-Jodh-2023 is similar to

the case in ITA No. 317/Jodh/2023 and we have heard both the

parties and persuaded the materials available on record. The

bench has noticed that the issues raised by the assessee in this

appeal No. 318/Jodh/2023 is equally similar on set of facts and

grounds. Therefore, it is not imperative to repeat the facts and

various grounds raised by both the parties. Hence, the bench feels

that the decision taken by us in ITA No. 317/Jodh/2023 for the

Assessment Year 2011-12 shall apply mutatis mutandis in the

case of Pradeep Nimawat in ITA No. 318-Jodh-2023 for the

Assessment Year 2015-16. In the result, both appeals of the assessee are allowed. Pradeep Nimwat

 Order pronounced under rule 34(4) of the Appellate Tribunal

Rules, 1963, by placing the details on the notice board.