The petitioner who has been added as the 15th accused in

 the impugned First Information Report, wants this Court to

 quash the same insofar as he is concerned. 2. Heard the learned Senior counsel appearing for the

 petitioner and the learned Additional Public Prosecutor

 appearing for the respondents. 3. The learned Senior counsel appearing for the petitioner

 submitted that certain irregularities had taken place in the

 matter of crop loan waiver in Kavadipatti Primary Agricultural

 Society. The petitioner who is holding the rank of Cooperative

 Sub Registrar was the Field Officer in respect of the said society.

 When it became known that bogus claims had been submitted,

 the petitioner was appointed as the enquiry officer to hold an

 enquiry under Section 81 of the Tamil Nadu Co-operative

 Societies Act. The petitioner submitted a detailed report on

 12.06.2018. Based on the petitioner's enquiry report, Crime No.1

 of 2019 was registered on the file of the Inspector of Police,

 C.C.I.W. Wing, Ramanathapuram, on 14.02.2019 for the offence
http://www.judis.nic.in 3 under Sections 420 , 408 , 409 , 468 , 471 , 477A and 120(B) of

 I.P.C. As many as 14 persons were arrayed as accused.

 Investigation is still being conducted. 4. The investigation officer while conducting the

 investigation, came to the conclusion that there are materials to

 implicate the petitioner also. Therefore, an Alteration Report was

 filed on 24.02.2019, implicating the petitioner as 15th accused in

 the case. It is this addition of the petitioner as 15th accused in

 the First Information Report, that is under challenge in this

 Criminal Original petition. 5. The learned Senior counsel appearing for the petitioner

 drew my attention to the guidelines to Cooperative Institutions

 on the waiver of agricultural loans as laid down in G.O.Ms.No.59

 Cooperation, food and Consumer Protection (CC1) Department,

 dated 28.06.2016. Clause 13 of the guidelines reads as follows:- “13. The procedure detailed below
 regarding the verification and consolidation of
 loans shall be followed; a. Short and Medium Term Loans
 (I) A list of all the eligible loan
 accounts of the members shall be prepared in
 both soft copy (in MS excel format) and hard
http://www.judis.nic.in 4 copy by the Secretary of the Society without any
 omission. Loans availed by producing duplicate
 or unauthenticated documents or forged
 documents or on binami name etc., shall be
 strictly excluded from the list. The Secretary of
 the Society shall prepare the list and verify and
 place it in the Board for approval. (ii) The Circle Supervisor/Field Manager
 of CCB and Field Officer(Cooperation)/Co-
 operative Sub-Registrar(CSR) shall verify the
 list prepared as above and certify the same and
 submit it to the Managing Director, Central
 Co-operative Bank. (iii) For Agriculture loans directly issued
 by the Central Co-operative Bank, a list shall be
 prepared by the Branch Manager/Field
 Manager and the same shall be verified by the
 Assistant General manager and submitted to the
 Managing Director of Central Co-operative
 Bank. Necessary resolution shall also be
 obtained in the Board. (iv) All the society-wise lists received as
 above shall be thoroughly verified in field by the
 3 member Committee, constituted by the
 Regional Joint Registrar, which shall also
 include the employees of the District
 Co-operative Bank. In addition, Regional Joint
 Registrar should draw officials from other
 districts and arrange to get super checked a
 minimum of 10% of the loans in each Society.
 The verified lists in the prescribed format shall
http://www.judis.nic.in
 be submitted within a month to the Managing 5 Director of Central Co-operative Bank through
 the Deputy Registrar concerned. The
 consolidated list for the entire district shall be
 countersigned by the Managing Director of
 Central Co-operative Bank and Regional Joint
 Registrar before submitting to the Tamil Nadu
 State Apex Co-operative Bank(TNSACB). (V) Tamil Nadu State Apex Co-operative
 Bank(TNSACB) shall consolidate the lists
 submitted by the Central Cooperative Banks
 and shall forward to the Registrar of Co- operative Societies.” 6. The core argument of the learned Senior counsel is that

 the Secretary of the Society who has to prepare the list of

 beneficiaries, after verifying the same has to place it before the

 Board for approval. The papers will then go before the next Level

 Committee for further verification. The next Level Committee

 comprises Circle Supervisor/Filed Manager of CCB and Field

 Officer(Co-operation)/Co-operative Sub-Registrar(CSR) and it is

 their duty to verify the list prepared by the Secretary of the

 Society and certify the same and submit to the Managing

 Director of the Central Co-operative Bank. 7. The learned Senior counsel would take pains to argue

 that the petitioner's role is only to verify the documents
http://www.judis.nic.in 6 submitted by the Society and certify the same. The petitioner is

 not expected to undertake 100% full verification at that stage. It

 is most unfair to accuse the person who was responsible for

 unravelling the fraud committed by the officials of the Society

 concerned. According to him, the persons originally named in the

 First Information Report alone are responsible for verifying and

 conducting 100% full inspection and identification of the

 beneficiaries and preparation of the list. This burden cannot be

 shifted to the petitioner herein. He submitted that without any

 basis, he has been arrayed as an accused in the First Information

 Report. The petitioner is to retire shortly and he wanted this

 Court to quash the First Information Report, as the continued

 pendency of the criminal case would seriously impair his chances

 of retiring peacefully. 8. The first respondent has filed a detailed counter

 affidavit. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor reiterated the

 contentions set out therein and submitted that the investigation

 is only at the midway stage and that therefore, it would be

 premature to examine the case against the petitioner on merits. 9. I carefully considered the rival contentions.
http://www.judis.nic.in 7 10. It is not in dispute that the petitioner was the enquiry

 officer appointed under Section 81 of the Tamil Nadu

 Cooperative Societies Act. After conducting a detailed enquiry,

 he found out that out of 146 beneficiaries, 85 are not eligible for

 waiver. In fact even dead persons were shown as beneficiaries in

 the list submitted by the Secretary of the Co-operative Society.

 The argument of the learned Additional Public Prosecutor

 appearing for the prosecution is that when these shocking facts

 could be unearthed by the petitioner in his Section 81 enquiry,

 he was actually expected to have undertaken the very same

 exercise when the list was submitted by the Secretary of the Co-

 operative Society to him as the next Level Authority to scrutinize

 the list. The contention of the prosecution is that the petitioner

 had colluded with the officials of the Co-operative Society in the

 first instance and after the scam came to light, he chose to shift

 the blame on accused Nos.1 to 14. In fact the learned Additional

 Public Prosecutor would go to the extent of even questioning the

 wisdom of the authorities in appointing the petitioner as the

 enquiry officer under Section 81 of the Tamil Nadu Co-operative

 Societies Act. In any event, the investigation is presently going

 on. Only at the time of filing of final report, the investigation
http://www.judis.nic.in 8 officer would decide on filing the final report against the

 petitioner also. 11. I am in full agreement with the objections raised by the

 learned Additional Public Prosecutor. It is seen that a sum of

 Rs.53,90,018/- was disbursed towards crop loan waiver to

 ineligible persons. As already pointed out, some of the applicants

 were dead long ago. The disbursal of the said amount was based

 on the certificate issued by the petitioner as the next Level

 Authority. The Managing Director of the Central Co-operative

 Society has issued a circular dated 04.07.2016 calling upon the

 Field Managers and the Field Officers to make proper

 verification before submitting the proposals for crop loan waiver.

 Thus great responsibility lay on the petitioner. It is the

 petitioner, who was entrusted with the actual task of verifying

 the list prepared by the Secretary of the Society and certifying

 the same, cannot casually claim that his job was confined to

 paper verification. If that be so, there was no need for

 appointing the next Level Committee comprising Circle

 Supervisor/Field Manager of CCB and Field

 Officer(Cooperation)/Cooperative Sub-Registrar(CSR).

http://www.judis.nic.in 9 12. I am not in a position to agree with the stand taken by

 the learned Senior counsel with regard to the role to be played

 by the next Level Committee as contemplated by Clause 13 of

 the guidelines laid down in G.O.(Ms)No.59 Cooperation, Food

 and Consumer Protection(CC1) Department, dated 28.06.2016.

 The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case after case has held that the

 Courts in exercise of inherent power should be very slow to

 quash the First Information Report. 13. This is not the case in which it can be stated that there

 are no materials against the petitioner herein. The petitioner was

 definitely a part of the process, in which the list of applications

 and the list of beneficiaries was scrutinised and finalised. When

 the scam of this proportion has taken place, the investigation

 must unearth the truth. It would not be open to this Court to

 curtail the investigation at this stage. I find no merit in this

 Criminal Original petition. 14. This Criminal Original petition stands dismissed. Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, Madurai. CRL.O.P.(MD)No.4257 of 2019 and CRL.M.P.(MD)No.2581 of 2019 10.07.2019

http://www.judis.nic.in 11 http://www.judis.nic.in