1. This petition has been filed for issuance of a writ of mandamus against respondent no.1 to encash the unconditional Bank Guarantee No.009100197 dated 15th July, 1997 in favour of the petitioner and for an Order declaring the decision of the respondent Bank contained in its letter dated 18th November, 1997 as illegal. 2. The petitioner is vessel owner engaged in the business of carriage by sea. Its principal place of business is at 34, Possidonos Avenue, 174 55 Alimos, Athens, Greece. The petitioner entered into a Charter Party Agreement with M/s Lucky Exports, respondent no. 2 herein, for the purpose of transporting rice from Visakhapatnam Port in India to Novorrissk, a Port in Russia, abroad "DANUBE TRADER", a vessel belonging to the petitioner herein. As per the terms of the Charter Party Agreement M/s Lucky Exports were to furnish the petitioner with an irrevocable Bank Guarantee. Pursuant to 
the said agreement the Syndicate Bank executed an irrevocable and unconditional Bank Guarantee numbering 009100197 for the sum of US $ 52,500 in favour of the petitioner. The said Bank Guarantee was to be paid on tender of first demand along with an invoice towards demurrage, a copy of the notice of readiness, statement of facts giving lay time and time sheet calculations duly authenticated by the bankers of the petitioner. The said Bank Guarantee as extended was valid upto 15th October, 1997. On 25th September, 1997 the petitioner submitted to the Charterers a demurrage invoice for a sum of US $ 53,265.63 on the basis of the time sheet calculations. This was contested by M/s Lucky Exports, respondent no.2 who vide their letter dated 27th September, 1997 contended that as per their calculations the vessel had only incurred demurrage for a period of 4 days, 9 hours and 52 minutes. On failure of respondent no.2 to pay the demurrage the petitioner were constrained to invoke the Bank Guarantee vide letter dated 6th October, 1997 for the entire amount of US $ 52,500 in terms of the guarantee itself read with the terms of the Charter Party Agreement. The petitioner approached the respondent Bank and vide letter dated 6th October, 1997 asked for invocation of the Bank Guarantee. The respondent Bank addressed a letter to the petitioner dated 8th October, 1997 which reads as follows:- Yours faithfully,
 Sd/- MANAGER." 3. The Bank further wrote another communication dated 10th October, 1997 which makes the following reading:- 4. The respondent Bank, however, did not pay any money to the petitioner nor acceded to the request for invocation of the Bank Guarantee. In the meanwhile respondent no. 2, the Charterer filed a suit being Suit No. 2262/97 against the petitioner and the respondent Bank praying for a decree for perpetual injunction restraining the petitioner from encashing the Bank Guarantee and restraining the respondent Bank from releasing the payment. Respondent no.2 also moved interim application being I.A.No. 10449/97 for grant of ad-interim injunction restraining the respondent Bank from releasing payment. The matter came up for hearing before D.K.Jain,J. on the Original Side who vide detailed judgment dated 4th November, 1997 rejected the pleas of respondent no.2 and dismissed the interim application. It may be relevant to reproduce the operative part of the judgment as below:- 5. Respondent no.2 impugned the above said Order of the learned Single Judge on the Original Side and filed FAO(OS) No.257/97 before the Division Bench which was listed for the first time on November 10, 1997 when it was adjourned to 2nd December, 1997 on request of the counsel. In the meanwhile a communication dated 18th November, 1997 from respondent no.1 was received by the petitioner declining to honour the Bank Guarantee. This letter reads as follows:- 6. Respondent no.2 obviously would be aware of the communication and on December 2, 1997 sought leave of the Division Bench to withdraw the appeal which was dismissed accordingly. The petitioner addressed representation to the Reserve Bank of India dated 25th November, 1997 complaining about the conduct of the respondent Bank as the said respondent refused to accede to the demand of the petitioner. This petition was filed for the necessary reliefs. The basic objection which is taken by learned counsel for the respondents is that the Order of the learned single Judge on the Original Side dated 4th November, 1997 cannot be enforced in the present writ petition as writ petition to enforce contractual obligation is not maintainable. Reference is made to the judgments reported as Suganmal Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and others ; M/s Mohan Meakin Breweries Ltd. Vs. Union of India and others ; M/s Radhakrishna Agarwal 
and others Vs. State of Bihar and others ; United Commercial Bank Vs. Bank of India and others ; Mrs. 
Sheela Thomas and others Vs. The State of Kerala and another ; State of U.P. and others Vs. Bridge & Roof Company (India) Ltd . and Visakhapatnam Port Trust and another 
Vs. Ram Bahadur Thakur Pvt. Ltd. and others 7. Reference may now be briefly made to some of the judgments referred to above . In the case of Suganmal (supra) the Court reiterated the proposition that mandamus cannot be issued solely for refund of tax already paid. Paragraph 6 of this judgment reads as follows:- 8. The Full Bench of this Court in M/s Mohan Meakin Breweries Ltd. (supra) reiterated the proposition that disputed claim of money arising out of the contract can only be considered in a civil suit or as per arbitration clause in the contract and the High Court normally does not entertain petition under Article 226 to enforce a civil liability arising out of a 
breach of contract to pay amount of money to the claimant and where the rights and obligations of the parties are purely contractual and not statutory the validity of a disputed claim for money based on an alleged breach of contract can be canvased in an ordinary civil proceeding or by resorting to arbitration where there is an arbitration clause in the agreement and will not be entertained in a writ proceeding. 9. Strong reliance is placed on the judgment of United Commercial Bank (supra) to reiterate that it was not obligatory on the part of the respondent Bank to accept the demand of the petitioner for invocation and encashment of Bank Guarantee. Paragraphs 27, 28, 31, 33,38, 39, 40, 41 and 42 of this judgment read as follows:- 10. The judgment of the Kerala High Court in Mrs.Sheela Thomas and others (supra) merely deals with the refund of interest paid at enhanced rate and the Court declined to interfere in a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India on the basis of facts as stated in the judgment. 11. In State of U.P. and others (supra) the Supreme Court dealt with the question in paragraph 18 which reads as follows:- 12. In Visakhapatnam Port Trust and another (supra) the law was reiterated that where highly disputed questions of fact arise for decision, civil suit instead of writ petition would be an appropriate action. 13. The facts of the present case as referred to in the earlier part of the judgment may now be considered. Respondent no.2 on its own filed a suit in this Court and moved an application for interim injunction for issuance of a restraint order against respondent Bank from encashing the Bank Guarantee in the sum of US $ 52,500 issued by respondent no.1 Syndicate Bank in favour of the petitioner. The matter was contested and argued at length and the learned Judge while relying on the settled law as laid down by the Supreme Court rejected the contentions of respondent no.2 and dismissed the application for interim injunction as devoid of merit and reflected on the conduct of the respondent Bank as not commendable. Respondent no.2 felt aggrieved by the judgment of this Court and filed FAO(OS) No.257/97 but at the same time prevailed upon the respondent Bank not to accede to the demand of the petitioner and when the Bank issued a letter rejecting the 
claim of the petitioner the learned counsel appearing before the Division Bench sought leave to withdraw the appeal. In this background it cannot be stated that writ petition is not maintainable in enforcing the Order of this Court as it was imperative on the part of the respondent Bank to accept the same and act in pursuance thereto. On the contrary no action was taken and the Order of the learned Judge on the Original Side remained unimplemented. While dealing with the plea of irretrievable injustice to respondent no.2, it was held as follows:- 14. The law is well settled that except in cases of fraud it will not be open for the Bank to refuse to accept the invocation of the Bank Guarantee. The Supreme Court in the judgment reported as U.P.Cooperative Federation Ltd. Vs. Singh Consultants and Engineers (P) Ltd. clearly lays down that proposition. Paragraphs 21, 28, 30 and 34 
of this judgment may be reproduced as follows:- 15. Similarly it has been held in Dwarikesh Sugar Industries Ltd. Vs. Prem Heavy Engineering Works (P) Ltd. and another with regard to the encashment of a bank guarantee as follows in paragraphs 21 and 22:- Dealing with the question of fraud it has been held that fraud has to be an established fraud. The following observations of Sir John Donaldson, M.R. in Bolivinter Oil SA Vs. Chase Manhattan Bank are apposite: The aforesaid passage was approved and followed by this Court in U.P. Coop. Federation Ltd. Vs. Singh Consultants and Engineers (P) Ltd . 22. The second exception to the rule of granting injunction, i.e., the resulting of irretrievable injury, has to be such a circumstance which would make it impossible for the guarantor to reimburse himself, if he ultimately succeeds. This will have to be decisively established and it must be proved to the satisfaction of the court that there would be no possibility whatsoever of the recovery of the amount from the beneficiary, by way of restitution." 16. Respondent no.1 Bank accepted the invocation of Bank Guarantee and responded to the communication of the petitioner by stating in letter dated 8th October, 1997 that the claim was under process. Thereafter on 10th October, 1997 the Bank was willing to remit the amount of US $ 15,700 but completely changed its stand and outright rejected the claim of the petitioner by communication dated 18th November, 1997. This is clearly a malafide approach as the respondent Bank obviously acted on the initiative of respondent no.2 by declining to honour the Bank Guarantee which it had no jurisdiction in law to do. The respondents were also aware of the judgment of this Court in I.A.No.10449/97 in Suit No.2262/97 dated 4th November, 1997 wherein the conduct of the respondent Bank was criticised. The respondent could not in law refuse to honour the statutory obligations and deprive the petitioner of its right to invoke the Bank Guarantee on the basis of the settled law by the Supreme Court which has already been referred to. The plea that the Order passed by this Court on the Original Side was not required to be implemented and the petitioner was at liberty 
to take recourse to any other proceedings such as a suit to recover the amount is clearly misconceived and an abuse of the process of Court. The respondents having voluntarily invited a decision from this Court could not subsequently resile from the same and argue that the present petition is not maintainable. 17. Respondent no.1 is a Nationalised Bank and is an instrumentality of State and, therefore, amenable to writ jurisdiction. The conduct and functioning of the Bank which is a nationalised Institution must be above board and in public interest. The facts of the case will establish that the respondent Bank refused to accept the judgment of this Court and acted in collusion with respondent No.2. The conduct is reprehensible and cannot be appreciated. 18. For the aforesaid reasons this petition is allowed. Rule is made absolute. Respondent no.1 is directed to encash the Bank Guarantee No.009100197 dated 15th July, 1997 in favour of the petitioner forthwith. The learned Judge while passing an Order on 23rd July, 1998 in this petition had also clarified 'that in case the petition succeeds, the petitioner will be paid interest at an appropriate rate. The petitioner is, therefore, held entitled to interest at the rate of 12% per annum w.e.f. 8th October, 1997 i.e. the date on which the respondent Bank responded to the communication of the petitioner dated 6th October, 1997 requesting for invocation of Bank Guarantee. The petitioner is also entitled to costs which are quantified at Rs.20,000/-. The interest as well as the costs shall be shared by both the respondents in equal proportions.