IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS

DATED: 25/10/2010

CORAM

THE HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE V.RAMASUBRAMANIAN

C.P.Nos.239 and 240 of 2008
and 
A.No.308 of 2009 in C.P.No.239 of 2008

In the matter of the Companies Act, 1956 and
In the matter of Sections 391 and 394 of
the Companies Act, 1956
and
In the matter of the Scheme of Amalgamation
of
M/s. Subhiksha Trading Services Limited
with
M/s. Blue Green Constructions & Investments Limited

M/s. Subhiksha Trading Services Limited
Registered Office: 6th Floor, Habib Complex
No.5, Durgabai Deshmukh Road					Petitioner in
R.A.Puram, Chennai 600 028					C.P.No.239 of 2008/
rep. By its Director R.Subramanian			..	Transferor Company

M/s. Blue Green Constructions & Investments Limited
Registered Office: 2. I have heard Mr.R.Murari, learned counsel appearing for the petitioners, Mr.Vikram Trivedi and Mr.P.H.Arvind Pandian, learned counsel appearing for the shareholders-objectors and M/s.A.L.Somayaji, learned Senior Counsel, Karthik H. Seshadri, Rahul Balaji, N.V.Srinivasan, S.Vasudevan, P.R.Raman, S.Raghunathan, P.Meghna Nair, P.Vinod Kumar, A.K.Mylsamy and T.K.Baskar, learned counsel appearing for the creditors-objectors, Mr.M.Devendran, learned Senior Panel Counsel for the Central Government and Mr. Jayakumar, learned Deputy Official Liquidator. 3. M/s.Subhiksha Trading Services Ltd., the petitioner in C.P.No.239 of 2008 is the transferor and M/s.Blue Green Constructions and Investments Ltd., the petitioner in C.P.No.240 of 2008 is the transferee. 4. The averments contained in C.P.No.239 of 2008, in brief, can be summarised as under:- 5. In the body of the petition (C.P.No.239 of 2008), the transferor company has also furnished the salient features of the Scheme and the list of Directors of the transferor as well as the transferee companies and the shares held by each one of them. In para-20 of this petition, the transferor company has also furnished the list of secured creditors and the amounts due to them, as on 31.3.2008 and 30.6.2008. The list shows the names of Bank of Baroda, HDFC Bank, HSBC Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, ABN Amro Bank, Yes Bank, Federal Bank, Development Credit Bank, Bank of India and IndusInd Bank, as the secured creditors. The total liability to these Banks as on 31.3.2008 is shown as Rs.639.83 crores and as on 30.6.2008 is shown as Rs.732.05 crores. 6. Most of the averments contained in C.P.No.240 of 2008 filed by the transferee company, are only a repetition of the contents of the petition filed by the transferor company. Therefore, only those averments in C.P.No.240 of 2008, which do not find a place in C.P.No.239 of 2008 alone are extracted as under:- Therefore, the transferee company has sought the sanction of the Scheme of Amalgamation, with effect from 30.6.2008. 7. The Regional Director of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has filed an affidavit, after being served with the copies of the petitions and after examining the Scheme. Except pointing out two technical objections, one relating to the combining of the authorised capital of both the companies and another relating to the manner in which the name of the transferee company is sought to be changed after the Scheme becomes effective, the Regional Director has not recorded any serious objection to the Scheme. The Regional Director has also made a mention about a complaint received from an employee of the transferor to the effect that he had not received salary for the past 3 months on account of all shops of the transferor remaining closed. But, he has indicated that clause 9 of the Scheme protects the interests of the employees of the transferor. Thus, in effect, there is no substantial objection to the Scheme from the Regional Director. 8. The Official Liquidator has filed a report stating that as per the report of the Chartered Accountants engaged by him, there is no material to come to the conclusion that the affairs of the transferor are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of its members or public interest. Thus, the Official Liquidator has also not recorded any objections to the proposed Scheme. 9. Therefore, if we look at the petitions superficially, all the requirements for sanctioning a Scheme, stand satisfied, since (i) the majority of the shareholders present at the court convened meeting have approved it; (ii) the majority of the creditors present at the court convened meeting have approved it; (iii) the Regional Director has not recorded any substantial objections; and (iv) the Official Liquidator, on the basis of the report of the Chartered Accountant appointed by him, has concluded that the affairs of the transferor are not conducted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the members or the public. It is also relevant to note at this juncture that the majority of the shareholders and the majority of the creditors gave consent to the Scheme, even before the date of filing of the petitions for sanction of the Scheme. To be precise, the Bank of India, Development Credit Bank Limited, HDFC Bank, HSBC Bank, ICICI Bank and IndusInd Bank, gave letters of no objection to the Scheme on 12.8.2008, 22.8.2008, 05.8.2008, 05.8.2008, 05.8.2008 and 04.8.2008 respectively. Similarly, the shareholders Zash Investments and Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. (which holds 10% of the shares in the transferor) and ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Ltd., (which holds 23% of the shares in the transferor) gave letters of no objection on 07.7.2008 and 20.7.2008 respectively. In view of the majority of the creditors (Banks) having issued letters of no objection, the transferor actually came up with an application in C.A.No.2355 of 2008 for dispensing with the meeting of creditors and dispensing with the production of letters of no objection from the other Banks, viz. Bank of Baroda, Kotak Mahindra Bank, ABN Amro Bank and Federal Bank. But, that application was dismissed by this Court by an order dated 23.9.2008. Therefore, the petitioners came up with applications in C.A.Nos.2377 and 2378 of 2008 for convening the meetings of shareholders and creditors. This Court ordered meetings to be convened and accordingly, meetings were convened on 31.10.2008. Even in the court convened meeting, the majority of the shareholders and creditors of the transferor consented to the Scheme. Therefore, in normal circumstances, one would expect the Scheme to pass through the green channel without much ado. 10. But it is not to be so. Two shareholders viz., (i) ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Ltd., holding approximately 23% of the shares in the transferor company, and (ii) Zash Investment and Trading Co.Pvt. Ltd., holding approximately 10% of the shares in the transferor company, have objected to the Scheme tooth and nail. Similarly, some of the creditors such as ICICI Bank Ltd. and Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. have filed objections to the Scheme. As a matter of fact, the shareholders-objectors ICICI Venture and Zash Investment as well as the creditor-objector ICICI Bank, had earlier given consent for the Scheme. But, they have come up with serious objections, contending that the consent given earlier would not operate as estoppel. PRELUDE: 11. Before we consider the merits of the Scheme vis-a-vis the objections, a small prelude is essential, to have a clear understanding of the issues involved. It is as follows:- (p) It is in pursuance of the above order of the Supreme Court that the petitions C.P.Nos.239 and 240 of 2008 seeking sanction of the Scheme of Amalgamation were taken up for hearing. JUSTIFICATION FOR THE SCHEME: 12. The transferor and the transferee companies seek to justify the Scheme, on the following grounds:- OBJECTIONS OF TWO SHAREHOLDERS: 13. The objections of ICICI Venture, which has approximately 23% shareholding in the transferor company, are as follows:- 14. The other shareholder, Zash Investment and Trading Co. Ltd., have filed an application in A.No.308 of 2009 seeking leave to withdraw their earlier consent and to file objections to the Scheme. Their objections are as follows:- OBJECTIONS OF SECURED CREDITORS: 15. ICICI Bank Ltd., which is one of the secured creditors of the transferor company, not only filed objections but also sought certain directions including (i) a direction to the transferor and the transferee to furnish their latest financial statements; (ii) a direction to the transferor and the transferee to submit ledger extracts duly certified by statutory auditors, showing the cash flows by and between them, after the execution of the Memorandum of Understanding dated 26.7.2008; (iii) a direction to the transferor and the transferee to disclose the details of all banking accounts operated by them; and (iv) a direction to the promoter-Managing Director Mr.R.Subramanian to disclose on oath, the source of money for purchasing 1,51,770 warrants at the rate of Rs.3,618/- per warrant and for purchasing 1,090 shares of the transferee. 16. The objections raised by ICICI Bank are as follows:- 17. The objections raised by Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., are as follows:- On the above averments and contentions, the objector has not only opposed the Scheme, but also sought a detailed investigation into the affairs of the transferor to see how monies to the tune of Rs.800/- crores had been diverted by the transferor. 18. The Standard Chartered Bank has filed its affidavit of opposition, the contents of which are as follows:- 19. The Adlabs Films Ltd (FM Radio Initiative) has filed its affidavit of opposition, the contents of which are as follows:- 20. M/s.Aura Finance and Holdings Pvt. Ltd., Medhas Consultants Pvt. Ltd., Chafex Marketing Pvt. Ltd., CSK Properties and Investments Pvt. Ltd., Esvee Marketing Pvt. Ltd., and Analog Capital Managers Pvt. Ltd., have filed their statement of objections in common, the contents of which are as follows:- 21. Tata Teleservices Limited and Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) Limited, have filed independent affidavits of opposition, the gist of which is as follows:- 22. Drive India Enterprise Solutions Limited, which is engaged in the business of retailing Tata Indicom Handsets and Services, have filed an affidavit of opposition, contending that the transferor entered into an arrangement with them for stocking and retailing the objector's products and services and that a sum of Rs.21,85,734/- is due and payable, for the handsets and instruments supplied between 11.3.2008 and 26.7.2008. A legal notice dated 29.01.2009 had already been issued under Section 434 of the Companies Act, 1956. The objector does not know the financial position of the transferee and is not willing to be a creditor of the transferee. 23. Adani Wilmar Limited, which delivered edible oils to the stores of the transferor, has filed an affidavit of objections, pointing out that a sum of Rs.1,53,86,199/- is due from the transferor. The objector has already issued a legal notice dated 10.12.2008, to which there is no response. The transferee company's total funds stand at Rs.5,07,12,721/-, while the loans and advances said to have been made by the transferee, is shown to be Rs.5,04,75,013/-. The increase of the authorised capital of the transferee company from Rs.5.5 crores to Rs.15 crores, without an increase in the paid up capital and the issue of huge number of preferential warrants to the promoter of the transferor, all go to show that the entire corpus of the transferee was injected only by the transferor company. Therefore, this objector opposes the Scheme of Amalgamation on the ground that the Scheme lacks bona fides and also on the ground that the transferee will not be in a position to discharge the liabilities. 24. HCL Infosystems Ltd., is also an unsecured creditor, who made supplies of Nokia Cellular Mobile telephone products to the transferor. An amount of Rs.9,32,69,205/- is allegedly due as of November 2008 to the said company and hence a notice under Sections 433 and 434 of the Companies Act, 1956, has already been served on the transferor. Therefore, they have objected to the Scheme on the following grounds:- 25. Mediaedge:CIA India Pvt. Ltd., which is part of a global communications planning and implementation agency, was engaged by the transferor to provide a range of media services, under two Agreements dated 20.11.2007 and 15.5.2008. For the services rendered by this company under the first Agreement, the transferor is due to pay a sum of Rs.9,31,16,173.44. For the services rendered under the second Agreement, a sum of Rs.97,55,997/- has become due. The objector has already issued a statutory notice followed by a petition for winding up in C.P.No.155 of 2009 and it is pending. Inasmuch as there are numerous creditors, whose interests are not taken care of, the proposed Scheme lacks bona fides and is against public interest. 26. Hindustan Unilever Ltd., which claims to have supplied various products in terms of an Agreement dated 01.3.2006, has stated in their objections that a total amount of Rs.4,61,04,943.34 is due and payable as of November 2008. Apart from stating that the Scheme does not take into account the interests of the unsecured creditors, this objector has also stated that the transferor has not disclosed all material facts relating to the company, as required by the proviso to Section 391(2) of the Act. The other objections stated by this objector are similar to the objections filed by HCL Infosystems Ltd. Therefore, they are not repeated. 27. Reliance Communications Ltd., provided MPLS VPN connectivity to all the 706 shops of the transferor by investing a huge amount. In terms of the invoices raised by the objector from 15.4.2008 to 15.11.2008, the transferor was due to pay Rs.2,34,90,960/-. Out of the said amount, a part payment of Rs.25 lakhs was made on 31.7.2008, after which no payment was made. Therefore, they object to the Scheme on the ground that it is prejudicial to the interests of unsecured creditors and also on the ground that the transferor had filed only unaudited balance sheet without relevant schedules. 28. M/s.Shree Vignesvarra Hi-Tech Promoters is a partnership firm which had leased out their property at door No.1095, Avinashi Road, Coimbatore. They have objected to the Scheme on the ground that the tenant has no right to transfer his tenancy, without the express consent of the landlord. If the Scheme is sanctioned, it would result in the transfer of tenancy, in violation of the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1961 . The transferor is in arrears of rent and has also not paid service tax. A proceeding for fixation of fair rent filed by the objector and a suit filed by the transferor are now pending. Therefore, they have objected to the Scheme. PARAMETERS FOR CONSIDERING A SCHEME OF AMALGAMATION: 29. Having seen the justification projected by the transferor and the transferee for sanctioning the Scheme and the objections raised by (i) secured creditors; (ii) unsecured creditors; and (iii) the shareholders, it is necessary at this stage to look into the broad parameters on which the Scheme has to be tested. 30. In Miheer H.Mafatlal vs. Mafatlal Industries Ltd [Vol.87 (1996) Comp. Cases 792 (SC)], the Supreme Court enlisted the broad contours of the jurisdiction of the Company Court, while considering a Scheme of Amalgamation, as follows:- After laying down the aforesaid 9 parameters, the Supreme Court also added a note of caution that the list was not exhaustive but only illustrative. 31. In addition to the above parameters, the Supreme Court has directed this Court, by its order dated 24.11.2009 passed in SLP(C) Nos.29827 and 29828 of 2009 (arising out of the applications of Cash & Carry) to examine the scheme and find out if there is merit in the Scheme in the context of the financial viability of the Scheme. Therefore, the focus of the learned counsel for the transferor and the transferee, was actually on the financial viability of the Scheme, while the focus of all the learned counsel appearing for the objectors, was on the financial viability of the transferor and the transferee. Keeping in mind this distinction sought to be maintained by the rival parties, the Scheme has to be tested on the broad parameters laid down by the Apex Court in Mafatlal. 32. But before doing so, a preliminary objection raised by the petitioner needs to be addressed. As seen from the narration given above, persons who are vocal in opposing the Scheme today, are the very same persons who gave consent to the Scheme even before this Court ordered a meeting to be convened. Thereafter, they also participated in the Court convened meetings of members and creditors and agreed to the Scheme. Therefore, it is the contention of the petitioners that having agreed to the Scheme, these members and creditors are not entitled to oppose it now. According to the petitioners, even if these members and creditors are held entitled to do so, they must make out a strong justification, since their opposition to the Scheme would tantamount to unilateral withdrawal of consent. Therefore, let me first deal with this preliminary objection. DISPUTES RAISED WITH REGARD TO THE COURT CONVENED MEETING AND THE CONSENT RECORDED THEREIN: 33. As seen from the background facts narrated in the preceding paragraphs, two shareholders viz., ICICI Venture Funds Management Co. Ltd., and Zash Investment and Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd., together holding about 33% of the total share capital of the transferor, gave consent to the proposed Scheme of Amalgamation in the earliest stages. Today, Zash Investment not only oppose the Scheme but also challenge (i) the very validity of the court convened meeting and (ii) the validity of the consent accorded on their behalf, by using the proxies, in the Court convened meeting. Similarly, 11 out of 12 secured creditors, except Kotak Mahindra Bank, also accorded consent in the Court convened Meeting held on 31.10.2008. Now, those two shareholders as well as a majority of the secured creditors seek to withdraw their consent and object to the Scheme vociferously. Though Kotak Mahindra Bank did not participate in the meeting and accord its consent, it was contended on behalf of the transferor that even Kotak Mahindra Bank is bound by the majority decision (unanimous decision in this case) taken at the Court convened meeting. 34. Therefore, four questions arise viz., (i) whether the meeting of the members convened by the Court was valid or not; (ii) whether Zash Investment can be said to have participated in the Court convened meeting and accorded their consent; (iii) whether the consent already given, (if held to have been validly given), can be withdrawn and if so, under what circumstances; and (iv) as to what is the effect of a decision taken unanimously or by majority, at the Court convened meeting, upon a member or creditor, who chose to remain absent, despite being put on notice. (i) VALIDITY OF THE MEETING: 35. In a valiant attempt, Mr.P.H.Arvindh Pandian, learned counsel for Zash Investments, questioned the very validity of the Court convened meeting on the ground that it was in violation of statutory provisions. It is his contention that under Article 18(a) of the Articles of Association of the transferor company, the quorum for the General Meeting shall be only two members personally present. Therefore, going by the prescription contained in the Articles, the transferor made a prayer in its application, C.A.No.2378 of 2008, to fix the quorum for the meeting of equity shareholders, to be convened for the purpose of considering the Scheme, at three members present in person or by proxy (para 27 of the affidavit in support of C.A. No. 2378 of 2008). This Court also passed an order on 25.9.2008 directing a meeting of equity shareholders to be convened on 31.10.2008, fixing the quorum for the meeting as two persons present in person or by proxy. 36. However, Section 174 (1) of the Act mandates that unless the Articles of the company provide for a larger number, five members personally present, shall be the quorum for a meeting of the company, if the company is a public company, other than the one covered by Section 43A . Section 170(1)(i) makes the provisions of Sections 171 to 186 applicable to general meetings of a public company, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Articles of the company. 37. As a cumulative effect of Sections 170(1)(i) and 174(1) , it is clear that the quorum for a meeting of a public company, shall be five members personally present and that the Articles of the company may only provide for a larger, but not smaller number. Therefore, it was contended by Mr.P.H. Arvindh Pandian, learned counsel for Zash Investments that (i) the provisions of Article 18(a) , (ii) the prayer made in C.A.No.2378 of 2008 for fixing the quorum at 3 and (iii) the order passed on 25.9.2008 fixing the quorum at two, were all contrary to the statutory provisions. The learned counsel also contended that though Rule 69(4) of the Companies (Court) Rules, 1959 empowers the Judge, hearing an application under Section 391 , to fix the quorum and the procedure to be followed at the meeting, the quorum so fixed cannot run contrary to the statutory provisions and that therefore, the very meeting ordered by this Court in C.A.No.2378 of 2008 to be convened on 31.10.2008 with a quorum of three members was contrary to law. Consequently, it is his contention that the consent accorded to the Scheme, in the meeting of the members held on 31.10.2008, was no consent in the eye of law. 38. However, Mr.R.Murari, learned counsel for the transferor company submitted that the provisions of Sections 171 to 186 have a limited application to the proceedings under Sections 391 to 394 and that since the proceedings for sanctioning a Scheme are special in nature and are governed by special provisions which would have an overriding effect, the meeting held on 31.10.2008 and the consent of the members obtained therein, cannot be said to have been vitiated. In support of his contention, Mr.R.Murari relied upon a decision of the High Court of Bombay and the provisions of Annexure B to The Companies (Central Government's) General Rules and Forms, 1956. 39. In In Re: Khandelwal Udyog Ltd. and Acme Mfg. Ltd. [(1977) 47 CC 503 (Bom.)], the dissentient shareholders, while opposing the Scheme, contended that the companies did not make a proper disclosure as contemplated under Section 173 and hence, the resolutions passed by the majority, at the meetings convened for the purpose, were a nullity. While dealing with the said contention from paragraph 21 onwards, the Bombay High Court pointed out that all the provisions from Sections 171 to 186 , are general provisions pertaining to the meetings of the company, whether annual general meeting or extraordinary general meeting. In contrast, Sections 391 and 393 are a code complete in themselves, in respect of the procedure relating to the sponsoring of the Scheme, the approval of the same by the members/creditors and the sanctioning thereof by the Court. The distinction between these provisions were succinctly drawn by the Court as follows:- Strongly placing reliance upon the above decision , Mr.R.Murari contended that it was open to the Court to fix a quorum, lesser than the one prescribed under Section 174(1) , while considering a Scheme, since the provisions of Sections 391 to 394 are a complete code in themselves. 40. Similarly, Rule 7(a) of The Companies (Central Government's) General Rules and Forms, 1956, issued by the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 642 , stipulates that sections 171 to 186 shall apply with respect to meetings of any class of members of a company, as adopted and modified in the form set out in Annexure B. However, the proviso to the Rule makes it clear that the application of Sections 171 to 175 and 177 to 186 , as in Annexure B shall be subject to such other provisions as may be made either in the Articles of the Company or in a contract binding on the persons concerned. 41. Annexure B to the above Rules contains the "Form in which Sections 171 to 186 of the Act are to apply with respect to meetings of any class of members of the company". It is not necessary for us in this case, to find out all the differences between Sections 171 to 186 as found in the body of the Act and those found in Annexure B to the above Rules. The only provision where the difference between the language employed in the body of the Act and the language employed in Annexure B, which is of relevance to the case on hand, is Section 174(1) . Therefore, let me now make a comparison. 42. In the body of the Act, Section 174(1) reads as follows: In Annexure B to the above Rules, section 174(1) reads as follows: 43. There is an important distinction between Section 174(1) as found in the body of the Act and Section 174(1) as found in Annexure B to the aforesaid Rules. In Section 174(1) as found in the body of the statute, the phrase used is "unless the articles of the company provide for a larger number". Section 174(1) as found in Annexure B uses the phrase "unless the articles of the company provide otherwise". The word 'otherwise', may include a larger or a smaller number. The substitution of the word 'otherwise' for the words 'for a larger number', is a clear indication of legislative intent that in respect of meetings convened by a Court for the purpose of Section 391 , it is permissible for the Court to fix a smaller quorum. 44.	The above conclusion is also corroborated by the provisions of Section 170 , which reads as follows : 45.	A clear distinction is maintained between sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of Section 170 . Sub-section (1) makes the provisions of Sections 171 to 186 applicable to general meetings of a public company, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Articles of the company. On the contrary, sub-section (2)(b) entitles a public company to frame its Articles in such a manner that the provisions of Sections 171 to 186 (except 176) are adopted with modifications and adaptations, in so far as meetings of any class of members are concerned. 46.	Therefore, it is clear that the Act itself maintains a clear distinction between 'the general meetings of a company' and 'meetings of any class of members'. While it is not permissible for a company to provide in its Articles anything to the contrary than what is provided in Sections 171 to 186 , insofar as general meetings are concerned, it is certainly permissible for a company to adopt these provisions with modifications, insofar as meetings of any class of members are concerned. 47.	Therefore, the prescription of a quorum of two members under Article 18(a) , even if contrary to Section 170(1)(i) , in so far as general meetings of the company are concerned, is in tune with Section 170(2)(b) and Section 174(1) as found in Annexure B referred to in Rule 7 of the 1956 Rules, in so far as meetings of a class of members are concerned. Even Section 9 of the Act providing for an overriding effect, for the provisions of the Act over the Articles of a company, with a non obstante clause, cannot persuade me to take a different view. This is in view of the fact that Section 9 begins with the phrase 'save as otherwise expressly provided in the Act'. Therefore, Section 170(2)(b) and Section 174(1) as found in Annexure B, will hold the field, insofar as meetings of a class of members are concerned. Consequently, the order passed by this Court on 25.9.2008 in C.A.No.2378 of 2008 fixing a quorum of three members for the meeting of members to consider the Scheme, cannot be said to be violative of statutory provisions. (ii) WHETHER THERE WAS PARTICIPATION BY ZASH :- 48.	The learned counsel appearing for Zash Investment, also raised a dispute with regard to the claim of the transferor that the meeting of the members held on 31.10.2008 was attended by Zash. This contention stems from a contradiction between the contents of the report of the Chairman of the meeting and the contents of the counter affidavit filed by R.Subramanian. 49.	In the report filed by R.Subramanian, appointed as the Chairman for the meeting of the members convened on 31.10.2008, he has indicated in Annexure 1 that five equity shareholders namely, (i) Cash & Carry Wholesale Traders Private Limited (ii) R.Subramanian (iii) G.S.Ramaswami (iv) Mohana Ramaswami and (v) Zash Investment and Trading Company Private Limited attended the meeting. However, in the counter affidavit filed by R.Subramanian to the application taken out by Zash Investment, he had taken a stand that Zash Investment did not attend the meeting. But, this contradiction was later explained in the form of an affidavit. 50.	However, I do not think that Zash Investment can really make a mountain out of a mole hill, for two reasons. The first is that the transferor company had made paper publications, in one edition of the English daily 'Business Line' and in one edition of the Tamil daily 'Daily Thanthi' on 07.10.2008. Even the individual notice sent by the transferor, for the Court convened meeting, was admittedly served on Zash Investment, on 29.10.2008, as seen from the admission made by them in paragraph 4.4 of the rejoinder filed on 24.4.2009. The second is that even according to Zash, their authorised representative had handed over signed unfilled proxy forms to R.Subramanian. Though it was contended by the learned counsel for Zash that the proxy form is of no value, as it did not contain any indication of the nature of the meeting, a perusal of the proxy form shows that there was a clear mentioning of the date, time, venue and the purpose of the meeting. Therefore, today, Zash Investment cannot be heard to contend that there was no participation on their behalf in the Court convened meeting of the members held on 31.10.2008. 51.	As a matter of fact, even as early as on 13.02.2009, Zash Investment had issued a legal notice to the Managing Director of the transferor. In the said notice, all that Zash Investment sought to do, was only to withdraw the consent. If there was actually no participation, as contended by them, there could have been no consent and consequently, there would have been no occasion to withdraw the consent. Therefore, I reject the contention of the learned counsel for Zash Investment that there was no participation on their behalf, in the Court convened meeting held on 31.10.2008. (iii) WHETHER CONSENT CAN BE WITHDRAWN:- 52.	As seen from the narration of facts given in the preamble, the transferor had taken the consent of the shareholders both before and after the Court convened meeting. Therefore, the question that arises for consideration is as to whether the consent once given can be permitted to be withdrawn. 53.	Two shareholders (who hold 33% of the paid up share capital) and a majority of the creditors, now seek to go back on their consent on two grounds, viz., (a) that their consent was obtained by fraud and misrepresentation; and (b) that in any case, a material adverse change in the financial condition of the company had taken place, after the consent, justifying the withdrawal of consent. But, it is the contention of the petitioners that there was no fraud or misrepresentation and that in any case, fraud and misrepresentation are not pleaded by the shareholders and creditors. It is also the contention of the petitioners that the financial position of the company as on 31.10.2008, when the Court convened meeting was held, was as good or as bad as it is, on date. 54. It is true that allegations of fraud are to be pleaded specifically, as required by Order VI, Rule 4, CPC . By virtue of Rule 6 of the Companies (Courts) Rules, 1959, the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure are applicable to all proceedings under the Act. Therefore, there can be no doubt that allegations of fraud have to be specifically pleaded. 55. In the objections filed by ICICI Bank, they have taken a stand that in the letter dated 10.7.2008 seeking their consent, no mention about the MOU that the transferor had with the transferee was made. Therefore, ICICI Bank has taken a stand that there was suppression of material facts. But, in the same breathe, the Bank admits that their representatives attended the Court convened meeting on 31.10.2008 without knowing the consequences of the MOU. Therefore, in effect, they were at least put on notice of the MOU, in the statement accompanying the notice for the Court convened meeting. ICICI Bank cannot also plead that they were totally unaware of the financial position of the company, since the transferor had committed default in payment of interest even from July 2008, despite which the Bank gave consent in the meeting held on 31.10.2008. As a matter of fact, most of the creditors including ICICI Bank agreed to a CDR Scheme only thereafter. Therefore, I do not think that the transferor can be held guilty of fraud and misrepresentation, though it might be possible to accuse them of mesmerising the shareholders and creditors to accord consent, by clever salesmanship. 56. Similarly, the transferor has filed a set of correspondence exchanged between them and various creditors on 15.9.2008 to show that the financial position of the company was also made known to them. They have also filed a set of correspondence to show that periodical reviews were undertaken. Therefore, I am unable to find as to what exactly were the material particulars that were actually withheld by the transferor from the creditors at the time of obtaining their consent. 57. Insofar as the two shareholders, ICICI Venture and Zash Investments, are concerned, I do not know if between themselves, they can really point an accusing finger against the transferor, in the light of their own conduct. It is interesting to note that ICICI Venture purchased 33% of the shareholding in the transferor company for a total consideration of about Rs.90 crores. But, they off-loaded 10% of the shares by selling it to Zash for a total consideration of Rs.305 crores, at a heavy premium, only in March 2008. Hopefully, Zash purchased 10% of the shareholding from ICICI Venture, after conducting due diligence (for whatever it was worth). But, even according to the transferor as well as the objectors, the financial condition of the transferor started deteriorating from June 2008 onwards (within three months of the purchase of 10% of the shares by Zash from ICICI Venture). From August 2008 onwards, both ICICI Venture and Zash started looking for victims, in the form of foreign investors. A set of correspondence that took place between ICICI Venture and Zash on the one hand and a few foreign investors on the other hand, has been filed by the transferor, which reveals the following: 58. Therefore, it is clear that even upto September 2008, ICICI Venture was looking for foreign investors, to bail the company out of the woods. They were taking the lead in scouting for foreign investors from July to September 2008 and gave consent for the Scheme in the Court convened meeting held on 31.10.2008. It is relevant to note that ICICI Venture had nominated their representatives in the Board of Directors of the transferor and they constituted the majority. Therefore, they cannot really feign ignorance of what was happening in the transferor company, except by coming up with a confession that such nominee Directors failed to perform their duties and obligations. Actually, ICICI Venture withdrew its nominees from the Board of the transferor only on 08.01.2009, showing thereby that till then their relationship with the transferor did not run into rough weather. If ICICI Venture had actually succeeded in inviting investments, they might have off-loaded the balance 23% of their shareholding also with a margin (as they had done with Zash) and perhaps escaped from the scene. In such circumstances, I am unable to accept the contention of the shareholders that their eyes were opened only after the Court convened meeting and that till then, they were kept in the dark. 59. Insofar as Zash is concerned, they became victims, not at the hands of the transferor, but, at the hands of ICICI Venture in the first instance, by purchasing 10% of the shareholding, at a very heavy premium in March 2008. Even upto December 2008, their honey moon with the transferor and ICICI Venture did not come to an end, as can be seen from the fact that under a Bridge Loan Agreement dated 31.12.2008, one of its sister companies by name Hasham Investments and Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. granted a Bridge Loan of Rs.442 million. The only securities offered by the transferor were (i) a pledge of 32,57,037 equity shares; (ii) post dated cheques; (iii) personal guarantees; and (iv) demand promissory notes. I am unable to convince myself that after most of the 1500 outlets of the transferor throughout the country had been shut down by July 2008 and defaults in payment of statutory dues had already occurred, Zash was still willing to offer a loan to the transferor, without any kind of due diligence. Therefore, I do not wish to decide the issue of the right of the shareholders and the creditors to withdraw their consent, on the basis of allegations of fraud and misrepresentation. 60. However, that will lead us to the next question as to whether they are still entitled to withdraw their consent, atleast in view of the subsequent position of the company, even if not on account of fraud or misrepresentation. In order to find an answer to this question, it is necessary to have an understanding of the Scheme of Sections 391 to 394 . Under Section 391(1) , the Court is empowered, whenever an application is presented proposing a compromise or arrangement, to order a meeting of the creditors or class of creditors. The Court can also order a meeting of the members or class of members and the Court itself can prescribe the manner in which such meetings are to be called, held and conducted. 61.	Under sub-section (2) of Section 391 , read together with the proviso thereunder, the Court is obliged to take up the proposal for consideration, only if a majority in number representing three-fourths in value of the creditors or class of creditors or members or class of members, present and voting in person or by proxy agree to such compromise/ arrangement. If the majority does not agree to the compromise/arrangement, the Court may not take up the Scheme for consideration at all. 62.	Even if the majority (three-fourths) of the shareholders or creditors or any class of them, agree to the Scheme, it is not necessary for the Court to shut its eyes and sanction the Scheme, since the Court is not obliged to act as a mere rubber stamp. Under the proviso to Section 391(2) , the Court cannot order the sanctioning of the Scheme, unless it is satisfied that the applicant before the Court had disclosed all material facts relating to the company, such as the latest financial position, the latest auditor's report on the accounts of the company, the pendency of any investigation in relation to the company under Sections 235 to 351 and the like. 63.	Apart from examining all material facts, an inclusive list of what is furnished in the proviso to Section 391(2) , the Court is also obliged to do two things, before sanctioning a Scheme. The first is to receive a report from the Registrar, under the proviso to Section 394(1) , to the effect that the affairs of the company have not been conducted in a manner prejudicial to the interest of its members or to public interest, if the proposed compromise/ arrangement is in connection with a Scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation. The second is that a notice of every application made under Section 391 or 394 is to be given to the Central Government and their remarks taken into consideration, under Section 394-A. 64.	Thus there are three stages in the process of sanctioning a compromise/arrangement that involves the amalgamation of two or more companies. They are-- (i) the convening of the meeting of the creditors or any class of them or shareholders or any class of them and getting the consent of a majority representing three-fourths in value; (ii) the issue of notice to the Central Government and taking into consideration their views and calling for a report from the Registrar to the effect that the affairs of the company have not been conducted in a manner prejudicial to the interest of its members or to public interest; and (iii) arriving at a satisfaction that the applicant before the Court has disclosed all material facts such as the latest financial position, pendency of any investigation and the like. 65.	Thus, the according of consent, is the first and foremost step in the entire process, if the Court chooses to pass an order convening a meeting. The Court may also dispense with the convening of the meeting, under certain circumstances, about which we are not concerned at present. However, it is to be noted that on the one hand, if the Court chooses to convene a meeting and consent could not be obtained in such meeting, the proposal gets aborted even at the initial stages. On the other hand, the grant of consent by itself, does not always ensure the seal of approval, since the Scheme has to pass through the other two check posts, before it is allowed to reach its destination. In The Calicut Bank Ltd. (in liquidation) v. Devani Ammal [1940 (10) CC 78], a Division Bench of this Court pointed out two things, viz., (i) that if there was misrepresentation, the consent given by the shareholders and the creditors, would be of no avail; and (ii) that if the company is hopelessly insolvent and the Scheme confers no apparent benefit on anyone, the Scheme cannot be accepted, even if the resolutions of shareholders and creditors had been passed after a disclosure of the true position. Therefore, the grant of consent by itself, would not ensure free passage through all check posts. 66. 	Even after an order sanctioning a Scheme is passed, the Court is empowered, under Section 392(1)(b) , to order the modification of the Scheme, if the Court considers it necessary for the proper working of the Scheme. Section 392(2) empowers the Court even to order the winding up of the company, if it is satisfied that a compromise or arrangement already sanctioned under Section 391 , cannot be worked satisfactorily. 67.	Interestingly, the power of the Court under Section 392(2) , can be exercised both suo motu and also on an application filed by any person interested in the affairs of the company. In other words, the entitlement to invoke action under Section 392(2) , vests on "any person interested in the affairs of the company". This assumes significance in the light of two important facts. They are:- 68. Despite the fact---- (i) that a person interested in the affairs of the company, by himself, has no significant role (except as part of the majority) at the time of sanctioning the Scheme and (ii) that such a person becomes bound by the Scheme so sanctioned, he is made entitled to come to court under section 392 (2) and seek a modification of the Scheme or the winding up of the company. 69. Seen in the context of the restriction placed upon the minority under Section 391(2) , to be bound by the majority decision, the license given to "any person interested in the affairs of the company" under Section 392(2) , to seek the winding up of the company on the ground that the Scheme cannot be worked satisfactorily, is of great significance. The expression "any person interested in the affairs of the company" is wide enough to include (i) a person who gave his consent (ii) a person who remained neutral as well as (iii) a person who opposed the Scheme, but formed part of the minority and who consequently became bound by the Scheme under Section 391(2) . 70. Explaining the scope of Section 392 , the Supreme Court held in J.K. (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. New Kaiser-I-Hind Spinning and Weaving Co. Ltd. [AIR 1970 SC 1041], as under: Thus, Section 392 gives scope for any person interested in the affairs of the company, to seek winding up of the company or the modification of the scheme. As pointed out earlier, such a person might have consented to the Scheme or opposed the Scheme or even remained neutral, in the meetings held for considering the Scheme. 71. As a matter of fact, the word "consent" is not what is used in Section 391(2) . The word actually used therein is "agree". But by virtue of Section 13 of the Contract Act, 1872, two or more persons agreeing upon the same thing in the same sense (ad idem), are said to have "consented". A consent which is not caused by coercion, undue influence, fraud, misrepresentation or mistake, is a free consent. 72. An agreement to which the consent of a party is caused by misrepresentation, is voidable at the option of such party. However, such an agreement may not be voidable (i) if the party whose consent was so obtained had the means of discovering the truth with ordinary diligence or (ii) if the misrepresentation by itself did not cause the consent. 73. But what applies in the realm of contracts, may not in my opinion, apply stricto sensu, to the proceedings under Section 391 or 394. A Scheme under Sections 391 to 394 , though partakes the character of a contract in the initial stages, surpasses the realm of contracts at the later stages. This is why, a Scheme sanctioned by Court, is thrust even upon persons who never gave consent or who actually opposed the Scheme. This is also why, a power is vested in the Court to alter the terms on which consent was given, thereby tampering with the mandatory requirement of ad idem. Take for instance a case, where a Scheme is approved by Court with modifications. In such a case, the significance of the parties agreeing upon "the same thing in the same sense" as provided by Section 13 of the Contract Act, is lost, by the modifications imposed by the Court. Therefore, the rigours imposed by the provisions of the Contract Act , on the issues of free consent and the entitlement of a party to go back on it, cannot strictly be applied, in view of the peculiar nature of the procedure prescribed by Sections 391 to 394 . 74. In J.K. (Bombay) (P) Ltd. cited above, the Court pointed out the following: 75. Therefore, the agreement reached in the court convened meeting, by a majority of the shareholders and/or a majority of the creditors, to have a scheme, transcends the level of a mere agreement/contract, when the application for sanction is considered by the Court. The agreement reached in the meeting of the shareholders/creditors is a mere gate pass to gain entry into the next enclosure, where the Court takes up for consideration, all other issues necessary for determining whether sanction should be accorded or not. At that stage, the right of the shareholder or creditor, to speak up and place all material facts necessary for the Court to arrive at a proper decision, cannot be scuttled, merely by showing the consent that he gave in the meeting. 76.	In view of the above, I am of the considered view that there could be no impediment for a shareholder or creditor, who gave consent to a Scheme, in a meeting convened by the Court, to come up before Court and establish that the requirements of the proviso to Section 391(2) are not satisfied by the applicant before the Court. It is especially so, since such a person is entitled under Section 392(2) even to come up after the sanctioning of the Scheme and establish that the Scheme cannot be worked satisfactorily. The objection so placed at the time of hearing of the main petition, need not be equated to a withdrawal of consent. The consent earlier given by a member or creditor cannot operate as estoppel, nor can it operate as a gag, choking his freedom to inform the Court that the Scheme fails to satisfy the twin tests of (i) interests of members and (ii) public interest. Therefore, on the preliminary objection raised by the petitioners, I hold that there are no fetters on the right of the shareholders/creditors, who had earlier given consent for the proposed Scheme, to place before court, relevant materials to show that the requirements of the proviso to Section 391(2) are not satisfied or that the Scheme is not financially viable. (iv) CONSEQUENCES OF ABSENCE IN THE MEETING :- 77.	As pointed out in the preamble, Zash Investment raised a plea that there was no representation on their behalf in the Court convened meeting of members. However, I have rejected the same. But, in so far as the meeting of the creditors is concerned, Kotak Mahindra Bank did not attend the Court convened meeting of creditors. Therefore, their right to oppose the Scheme, was challenged by the petitioner on the ground that a person, who chose to remain absent, was bound by the decision of the majority and that such a person, who abdicated his responsibility, cannot oppose the Scheme at a later stage. 78. In Alstom Power Boilers Ltd. v. State Bank of India and Anr. [2003 (4) Bom. CR 212], relied upon by Mr.R.Murari, learned counsel for the petitioner, the objectors-shareholders did not choose to attend the Court convened meeting, despite having been served with notice. The learned Judge of the Bombay High Court pointed out in paragraph 20 of his decision that if the objectors were so keen and serious, it was their fundamental duty and also responsibility to have attended the meetings convened for the purpose of approval of the Scheme. 79. In In Re: Maharashtra Apex Corporation Ltd. [(2005) 124 CC 637 (Kar.)], relied upon by Mr.R.Murari, learned counsel for the petitioner, an argument was advanced, while opposing a Scheme, to the effect that if a person did not attend the meeting, it must be inferred that he did not accord his approval to the Scheme. Rejecting the said contention, the Karnataka High Court held as follows: 80.	With great respect, I am unable to subscribe to the view that the absence of a member or creditor would tantamount to an implied consent. As pointed out elsewhere, two or more persons are said to consent, when they agree upon the same thing in the same sense. It is true that consent may be express or implied. But, to constitute implied consent, a mere inaction or lack of initiative, may not be sufficient. While construing the word 'consent' appearing in Section 11(4)(i) of the Kerala Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1965, the Supreme Court held in P.John Chandy and Co.(P) Ltd. Vs John P.Thomas (2002 (5) SCC 90) that mere inaction in every case need not necessarily lead to an inference of implied consent. In that context, the Court referred to 'Words and Phrases Legally Defined', wherein the distinction between consent and acquiescence was indicated. While consent involves some affirmative acceptance, acquiescence arises even by merely standing-by and not objecting to something. 81.	Therefore, if a person fails to attend a meeting, he may at the most be bound by the decisions taken at the meeting, by a majority. But, it cannot be construed as amounting to an implied consent. Construing the absence of a person as amounting to implied consent, may lead to absurd consequences. Say for example, the majority of the members present at the meeting reject the scheme. Can it then be construed that those who remained absent, should be taken to have approved the scheme, by virtue of their absence, by construing such absence as implied consent ? I hope not. 82.	Therefore, the contention that a person, who did not participate in the Court convened meeting, should be taken to have accorded his implied consent, cannot be accepted. In any case, in view of the indications contained in Section 392(2) , such a person cannot be taken to have forfeited his right to point out to the Court, the deficiencies in the scheme. The submissions made by such a person in the course of hearing of the application under Section 391 , if have any relevance or bearing on issues of public interest, can always be taken into consideration by the Court. The submissions so made, need not necessarily be construed as adversarial, but can be construed as of assistance to the Court, to enable the Court to arrive at a conclusion as to whether the scheme deserves sanction or not. Therefore, the fourth point is answered accordingly. 83. Once it is concluded that the objections to the scheme, made by these persons can always be taken into account, then the next question that would arise for consideration, is as to whether the objections are of any significance. Therefore, let me now undertake a critical analysis of the objections to the scheme. A CRITICAL ANALYSIS OF THE OBJECTIONS: 84. In paragraphs 13 to 28 above, I have enumerated the objections of the shareholders and the secured and unsecured creditors to the scheme. A careful analysis of the objections filed by each one of them would reveal that in sum and substance, all the objections revolve around the following:- 85. Out of the above objections, some of them are not really material to the consideration of the scheme. The fact that the financial condition of the transferor company is worsening day-by-day, is not seriously disputed. The fact that the transferor company has committed default in payment of salaries to their staff members and the payment of even statutory dues such as Employees' Provident Fund, is also not disputed. The fact that more than about 1,600 retail outlets of the transferor company have been closed and the business has come to a grinding halt is also not disputed. 86. But these facts by themselves, are not sufficient to reject a scheme as unviable. The reason is that the object behind Chapter V dealing with compromises, arrangements, reconstructions and amalgamations, is not merely to enable healthy companies to re-arrange their affairs, but also to help unhealthy and sick ones to recover and recoupe. This is why, the very expression "company" appearing in Sections 391 to 393 , is defined in Section 390(a) to mean a company liable to be wound up under the Act. What the Court is obliged to examine when an application is presented under Section 391 or 394 can be categorised as follows:- 87. None of the provisions of Sections 391 to 394-A stipulate that a company which is financially in the ICU (intensive care unit), has no right to seek sanction for a compromise/arrangement/amalgamation, so as to enable it to prolong its life span or even to become healthier. All that the Court is obliged to see is, as to whether in the process of recovery of such a company, any of its shareholders or creditors or the public may be sucked into the ICU. Therefore, the fact that the transferor company is terminally ill on the financial front, may not by itself, be a deterrent for considering the scheme. 88. In so far as the objection relating to the non-impleadment of the Official Liquidator is concerned, it is true that pending adjudication of a petition for winding up, this Court has appointed the Official Liquidator as the Provisional Liquidator for the transferor company. On an application taken out by the transferor for suspension of the order, the Court refused to do so, though the order for publication was stayed. But the said order was passed only on 31.3.2009. The applications in CA.Nos.2378 and 2379 of 2008 for convening the meetings of the members and the secured creditors were ordered by this Court on 25.9.2008 and the meetings themselves were held on 31.10.2008. Immediately thereafter, the main petitions under Sections 391 to 394 were presented on 11.11.2008 and notices were ordered. The Regional Director filed his affidavit by the end of January 2009 and the Official Liquidator also filed his report by the end of December 2008, after having an investigation conducted by the Chartered Accountants, into the affairs of the company. 89. Therefore, these petitions in C.P.Nos.239 and 240 of 2008 were ripe for hearing and disposal even by February 2009, much before the order passed on 31.3.2009 appointing a Provisional Liquidator. But before these petitions could be taken up for hearing, the applications filed by one of the shareholders of the transferor company by name Cash and Carry Wholesale Traders Pvt. Ltd., for convening a meeting of the creditors for considering a Scheme of arrangement came up for hearing. Even at that stage, the creditors opposed the very convening of the meetings on the ground that no purpose would be served by convening any meeting. Consequently, these petitions C.P.Nos.239 and 240 of 2008 were also proposed to be taken up together for hearing along with those applications of the shareholder for convening meetings. But the proposal was objected to by the transferor company on the ground that the petitions for considering the Scheme of amalgamation could be considered effectively only after the arrangement proposed by the shareholder was considered. Therefore, the applications of the shareholder proposing a Scheme of arrangement were taken up and they were dismissed by the learned Judge by order dated 28.8.2009. The order was also confirmed by the Division Bench on 5.11.2009 and in the Special Leave Petition filed by the transferor, the Supreme Court issued a direction to hear and decide these petitions for amalgamation. 90. In the light of the above, I do not think that the non-impleadment of the Provisional Liquidator should deter me from considering these petitions. Moreover, it appears that the order dated 31.3.2009 passed by the learned Judge, appointing the Provisional Liquidator, became the subject matter of challenge in O.S.A.Nos.84 and 93 of 2009 and an order was passed by the Division Bench on 27.04.2009. Therefore, the objection relating to non-impleadment of the Provisional Liquidator, cannot be sustained. 91. A few creditors with whom the shares held in the transferor company have been pledged as security, have objected to the Scheme on the ground that the securities that they hold will get extinguished, if sanction is accorded to the merger, since the transferor company will cease to exist after the merger. But such a fear may not be well founded. Clause 7A.1 of the Scheme of Amalgamation prescribes that the transferee company shall issue at par and allot one equity share of Rs.10/- each fully paid up in the transferee company for every 11.53 equity shares of Rs.10/- each fully paid up held by the shareholders in the transferor company. Therefore, the securities held by these creditors may not get extinguished, but would only get converted into shares of the transferee company, though there would certainly be a diminution in their value. But such diminution may get compensated in view of the fact that the transferor company is not a listed company, while the transferee is a listed company and Clause 7A.8 of the Scheme provides for listing and/or admitting these shares to trading in Stock Exchanges. At any rate, this Court has the power, under Section 394(1)(ii) to make provision either in the order sanctioning the Scheme or by any subsequent order, for the allotment or appropriation by the transferee company of any shares. Therefore, the mere fact that the shares held in the transferor company are under pledge with some creditors, may not be sufficient to reject the Scheme itself. 92. One of the objections taken by some of the creditors is that under Clause 24(f) of the Listing Agreement, a fairness opinion of a merchant banker registered with SEBI, in relation to the valuation of shares should be placed at the meeting of the shareholders and that the report of the Chairman of the Court convened Meeting of the shareholders does not disclose if any such opinion was placed. 93. It is true that in order to ensure that the listed companies do not in any way violate or override or circumvent the provisions of the security laws or stock exchange requirements, certain provisions are made in sub-clauses (f), (g) and (h) of Clause 24 of the Listing Agreement. Under sub-clause (f), the company is obliged to file a copy of the Scheme with the stock exchange for approval, at least a month before it is presented to the Court. This requirement has admittedly been complied with by the transferee and a copy of the letter of consent given by the Madras Stock Exchange has also been filed. Under sub-clause (h) of Clause 24 inserted by the circular SEBI/ SMD/Policy/List/Cir-17/2003 dated 8.5.2003, the company is obliged to disclose in the Explanatory Statement forwarded under Section 393 , the pre and post arrangement or amalgamation capital structure and shareholding pattern. According to some of the objectors, no such disclosure was made in the Explanatory Statement to the shareholders. 94. But unfortunately, the two key shareholders viz., ICICI Venture Funds Management Co. Ltd., and Zash Investment and Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd., who together hold about 33% of the share capital, have not come up with such an objection. These two shareholders have admittedly given consent to the Scheme and they have now come up with objections on a variety of grounds such as fraud, misrepresentation etc. But, they have not contended in their objections that the above requirement was not fulfilled by the company. The objectors who have raised this issue, are not the shareholders. Therefore, their averment that the above requirement was not satisfied, is not borne out of first hand personal knowledge. Consequently, this objection cannot be sustained, in the absence of any of the shareholders raising it as a ground for going back on the consent given earlier. 95. One of the main objections raised by 2 major creditors namely, the ICICI Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., is (i) about the circumstances surrounding the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding dated 26.7.2008 between the transferor and the transferee, (ii) the payment of an amount of Rs.230 crores and (iii) the issue of preferential warrants. This objection requires consideration in greater detail, as according to the transferor, the failure of the proposed merger would result in the forfeiture of the amount of Rs.230 crores already paid. 96. In the course of hearing of these petitions, the transferor filed an additional set of documents which contained a copy of the Memorandum of Understanding dated 26.7.2008 and an amendment executed on 1.12.2008 to the MOU. As per the MOU, the transferor granted a license to the transferee to carry on the business of retailing, under the name and style of "SUBHIKSHA" for a period of 3 years with effect from 1.8.2008. The relevant part of the MOU containing the terms of such license are as follows:- 97. In the Explanatory Statement under Section 393 , issued to the members, at the time of convening the meeting of the shareholders, as per the orders of this Court, a mention is made in paragraph 4(c) about the consent given by the members by way of a Special Resolution passed at the meeting held on 25.7.2008, for the business arrangement entered into by way of the above MOU. It is only thereafter that the MOU was entered into on 26.7.2008. 98. As per Clause 3.c. of the MOU, the transferee ought to have paid, on or before 15.8.2008, a sum of Rs.230 crores towards part payment of the refundable security deposit of Rs.2,300 crores. The balance of Rs.2,070 crores should have been paid on or before 15.10.2008. The notice convening the meeting of the shareholders, was issued by the Court appointed Chairman on 30.9.2008 and the Explanatory Statement is perhaps dated subsequently (as it appears from the set of documents filed by the transferor). The meeting itself was held on 31.10.2008. Therefore, if the transferee had acted in tune with the MOU, an amount of Rs.230 crores ought to have been paid to the transferor, even before the notice dated 30.9.2008 was issued. The balance also ought to have been paid on 15.10.2008, which was 15 days before the date of the Court convened Meeting of the shareholders. But Explanatory Statement under Section 393 does not make a reference to the actual receipt of Rs.230 crores on 15.8.2008. The extract from the accounts of the transferor, furnished in para 4 of the Explanatory Statement reflects only an amount of Rs.9,52,79,934/- towards cash and bank balances as on the date of the Explanatory Statement. The current liabilities and provisions are indicated in para 4 to stand at Rs.154,91,40,920/- and Rs.10,91,56,151/- respectively. Thus, the amount of Rs.230 crores, which ought to have been received by 15.8.2008 (and claimed by the transferor to have been actually received), is not reflected in the financial position indicated in the Explanatory Statement. 99. In the 12th Annual Report of the transferee company, relating to the year 2007-2008, filed as part of the documents along with C.P.No.240 of 2008, the financial status of the transferee and the size and level of operations of the transferee are reflected. It is seen from the audited balance sheet as on 31.3.2008 that the "Sources of Funds" of the transferee comprised of the share capital of Rs.5,05,01,000/-, Reserves and Surplus of Rs.96,186/- and Profit and Loss Account of Rs.1,15,535/- totalling to Rs.5,07,12,721/-. The cash and bank balance are shown as Rs.1,20,679/-, other current assets are shown as Rs.2,55,538/- and loans and advances shown as Rs.5,04,75,013/-. 100. It is not known as to how a company of the size as above mentioned, entered into a MOU on 26.7.2008, agreeing to make a refundable security deposit of Rs.2,300 crores, within a short span of 3 months. As a matter of fact, it was only in the General Meeting held on 25.7.2008 that the transferee company received the approval of the members to increase the authorised capital from Rs.5.50 crores to Rs.15 crores. It was in the very same meeting that they decided to issue 65,09,489 preferential warrants, each warrant carrying a right to subscribe to one equity share of Rs.10/- each of the transferee at a price of Rs.3,618/- per share. The preferential warrants themselves were allegedly issued, as per paragraph 11(c) of C.P.No.239 of 2008, on 7.8.2008 and 8.8.2008, after receiving 10% of issue price per share viz., Rs.361.80 per warrant. 101. If the averment contained in para 11(c) of C.P.No.239 of 2008 is true, R.Subramanian ought to have paid to the transferee company, a sum of Rs.5,49,10,386/- on 7.8.2008 (at the rate of Rs.361.80 for 1,51,770 warrants). Similarly, the transferor ought to have paid to the transferee, on 8.8.2008, a sum of Rs.230,02,22,734/-. 102. A combined reading of the averments in C.P.Nos.239 and 240 of 2008 and the MOU dated 26.7.2008 would show that by mutual adjustment, the transferor had shown payment of a sum of Rs.230,02,22,734/- on 8.8.2008 towards the price of preferential warrants and the transferee had shown payment of a sum of Rs.230 crores on or before 15.8.2008, towards part payment of the refundable security deposit under the MOU dated 26.7.2008. In other words, without the actual flow of cash from one to the other, the transferor and the transferee appear to have stage managed the passing of consideration. Though I am only drawing this as an inference from the circumstances, the same is inevitable in view of the fact that the bank statements are not before me. Given the size of the transferee company and the size of the transaction under the MOU, it is inconceivable that the transferee could pay such a huge amount of Rs.230 crores on or before 15.8.2008 with a promise to pay Rs.2,070 crores on or before 15.10.2008. 103. It is equally inconceivable that the transferor could make payment of Rs.230 crores on 8.8.2008 for the purchase of the preferential warrants issued by the transferee, in view of the admitted averments contained in the applications C.A.Nos.1066 and 1067 of 2009 filed by Cash and Carry Wholesale Traders Pvt. Ltd. In paragraph 5(o) and 5(p) of the affidavit filed in support of C.A.Nos.1066 and 1067 of 2009, it is admitted that post March 2008, there was a marked reluctance on the part of the lenders to extend credit facilities in general and that the company's financial position choked from July 2008. The relevant averment in para 5(p) reads as follows:- 104. If the financial position of the transferor from July 2008 was what is reflected above, it is not known how they managed to pay Rs.230 crores on 8.8.2008 to the transferee. Even assuming for the sake of argument that this payment had been made on 8.8.2008, then the transferee ought to have paid Rs.230 crores on 15.8.2008 and Rs.2,070 crores on or before 15.10.2008. Therefore, after 15.10.2008, the financial condition of the transferor ought to have become more than stable. But on the contrary, it is admitted in paragraph 5(q) and 5(s) of the affidavit in support of C.A.Nos.1066 and 1067 of 2009 that even in November 2008, the operations were on the verge of collapse and that the transferor was advised in January 2009 to resort to Corporate Debt Restructuring. 105. Interestingly, the transferor who claims to have paid Rs.230 crores to the transferee on 8.8.2008 for the preferential warrants, had actually committed default in payment of a sum of Rs.1,76,49,680/- towards payment of contribution to the Employees' Provident Fund, Employees' Pension Fund, Employees' Deposit Linked Insurance Fund and the administrative charges thereto, for the period from June 2008 to September 2008, as seen from an order dated 19.02.2009 passed under Section 7A of the Employees' Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. Mr.R.Subramanian, the Promoter and Managing Director of the Transferor had admitted before the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, in the enquiry under Section 7A that the EPF contributions for the period from June 2008 could not be remitted on account of a serious financial crisis and that all the sales outlets of the transferor ceased to function. He has further admitted that the establishment itself ceased to function from January 2009 due to financial problems. During the same period, the transferor had defaulted in payment of dues to several creditors. Therefore, it is clear that the transferor and the transferee have just brought about book entries on mutual basis as though Rs.230 crores was paid by the transferor to the transferee on 8.8.2008 towards the price of preferential warrants and an equivalent amount was paid at the same time by the transferee to the transferor towards part payment of the security deposit under the MOU, without the actual flow of cash from one to the other. In essence, the transferor and the transferee have just built castles in the air and have created an illusion, with the MOU. A person well versed in the weaknesses of the double entry system of accounting alone could have done this. 106. Keeping in mind, the above suspicious circumstances surrounding the execution of the MOU, let me now go to two other objections to the Scheme, viz., that all material facts are not disclosed and that the latest audited financial statements are not available. 107. There is no dispute about the fact that only the unaudited statement of affairs of the transferor are filed along with the petitions. The financial year 2007-2008 was extended by 3 months to end on 30.6.2008 instead of on 31.3.2008. Though the transferor had undertaken in para 7 of C.P.No.239 of 2008 that the annual accounts are to be audited and laid before the members at the AGM to be held on or before 30.12.2008, it could not be accomplished. Therefore, the unaudited accounts as on 31.3.2008 alone are available before this Court, in so far as the transferor is concerned. This is why, all the objectors have raised a serious objection that without complying with the mandatory requirement of submitting the latest audited accounts, the petitioners are not entitled to seek the approval of this Court for the Scheme. 108. As pointed out earlier by me, the proviso to Section 391(2) mandates that no order sanctioning a compromise or arrangement shall be made unless the Court is satisfied that the applicant before the Court had disclosed all material facts relating to the company such as (i) the latest financial position of the company and (ii) the latest Auditor's report on the accounts of the company. 109. The proviso to Section 391(2) was actually inserted by way of an amendment under Act 31 of 1965. The amendment was brought forth, to give effect to the recommendations of the Daphtary-Sastri Committee based on the report of the Vivian Bose Commission of Inquiry. The relevant portion of the recommendations of the Committee reads as follows:- 110. 	In view of the above recommendations which led to an amendment to Section 391(2) and also in view of the negative form in which the proviso under Section 391(2) is couched, it is clear that the requirement is mandatory and a condition precedent. However, on the interpretation of the word 'latest', there appears to be divergence of views. 111. In Bharat Synthetics Ltd. v. Bank of India [(1995) 82 CC 437 (Bom.)], a learned Judge of the Bombay High Court was of the view that the availability of unaudited (provisional) financial results, would not amount to compliance with the requirements of the proviso to section 391(2) , relating to the furnishing of "the latest financial position of the company". 112. Similarly, another learned Judge of the Bombay High Court held in KEC International Ltd vs. Kamani Employees Union {2000 (1) Comp. LJ 351} that the expression "latest financial position of the company" would mean the financial position as at the time of final hearing of the petition and that this requirement is statutory. The relevant portion of the said decision , contained in paragraph 67 of the report, reads as follows: 113. In Blue Star Limited vs. In the matter of the Scheme of Arrangement {2000 (2) Bom. CR 525}, a learned Judge of the Bombay High Court held as follows:- 114. In State Bank of India v. Alstom Power Boilers Ltd. [(2003) 5 Comp. LJ 268 (Bom.)], a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court held that "the proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 391 requires the company to disclose to the Court, all material facts relating to the company, the latest auditor's report on the accounts of the company, the pendency of any investigation and the like." The Court further held as follows: 115. In Magnaquest Solutions (P) Ltd., In re. [2008 (3) Comp. L.J. 345 (A.P.)], a learned Judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court held that "the words "latest auditor's report" connote the latest auditor's report available or which should normally be available at the time of filing of the petition". After pointing out that there will always be a time gap between the date on which the auditor audits the accounts and prepares his report and the date on which the company petition is filed and the date on which it is actually heard, the learned Judge pointed out that the requirement of the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 391 would mean the latest auditor's report for the period for which the accounts are audited or ought to have been audited. Nevertheless, the Court also pointed out, after referring to the decision of the Bombay High Court in Zee Interactive Multimedia Ltd., that "when there is a long gap between the date of filing and the date of hearing, the Court is not powerless to ask for further details of the latest financial position as on the date of the hearing of the petition, or as near to the date of the hearing of the petition, as is reasonably practicable". 116. Despite the divergence of views, it is seen from a plain reading of the proviso to Section 391(2) that the focus of the proviso is on "the disclosure of all material facts relating to the company by the person making an application under Section 391(1) ". The emphasis on the disclosure of all material facts, formed the subject matter of the opinions in two decisions of different High Courts. In Krishna H.Bajaj v. Sesa Industries Ltd. [2009 Vol.III (4) Bom. L.R. 1509], a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, after considering the scope of the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 391 , held that "the interpretation of the said proviso cannot be restricted only to a limited aspect that it takes care of the investigation pending in relation to the company under sections 235 to 251 , as the words "and the like" are to be interpreted to mean that the company is required to disclose all material facts relating to the affairs of the company". After holding that the phrase "and the like" appearing in the proviso is very wide, the Court held that the affairs of the company should be transparent in all respects. 117. In Niulab Equipment Co. (P) Ltd., In. Re. [(2009) 91 SEBI & Corporate Laws Reports 387 (Bom.)], a learned Judge of the Bombay High Court held as follows: The reference in the proviso to (i) latest financial position of the company (ii) the latest Auditor's report on the accounts of the company and (iii) the pendency of any investigation proceedings in relation to the company, are all actually in relation to the obligation of the applicant before the Court to make a disclosure. Therefore, the applicant would have satisfied the requirement of the proviso to Section 391(2) , if in his application, he had disclosed, by affidavit or otherwise, all material facts including the above three facts. That this was the object of the law makers in inserting the proviso to Section 391(2) , is borne out by the recommendations of the Daphtary-Sastri Committee Report, which I have extracted earlier. The relevant portion of the report is extracted once again for easy reference as follows:- 118. Any doubt that one may have on the interpretation to be given to the word "latest" is dispelled by the relevant portion of the report extracted above. The emphasis therein is on the state of affairs of the company as on the date of the application for the sanction of the Scheme. Therefore, it is clear that an applicant would have satisfied the requirement of law if he had filed the latest financial position and the latest auditor's report as on the date of filing of the application. 119. But it does not mean that if after the filing of the application for sanction, it is brought to the notice of the court that any material change adverse to the interests of the members and the creditors had occurred, the Court should shut its eyes and just go by the latest financial position as on the date of filing of the application. One of the contours of the jurisdiction of the Company Court, as held in Miheer H. Mafatlal is that the Scheme as a whole should be just, fair and reasonable. Moreover, the reference to the element of "public interest", made under both the provisos to Section 394(1) makes it clear that the inquiry conducted by the Court need not necessarily be confined to the latest financial position as on the date of filing of the application. To put it differently, an applicant (including the transferor and the transferee companies) would have satisfied the requirement of disclosure of all material facts, if he had filed the latest financial position and the latest auditor's report on the accounts of the company as on the date of filing the application. But the role of the Court does not end with a mere scrutiny of such material, especially when a material change had occurred subsequently, adverse to the interests of the members, secured creditors or the public. 120. Viewed from the above perspective, it is seen that C.P.Nos.239 and 240 of 2008 were filed in November 2008. In the petitions themselves, the transferor and the transferee have disclosed the financial position of the transferor and the transferee as on 31.3.2008. While the financial position indicated in respect of the transferee, is as per the audited accounts, the financial position indicated in respect of the transferor, is as per the unaudited accounts. The companies have stated that due to the extension of the financial year upto 30.6.2008, the annual accounts were to be audited and laid in the AGM to be convened on or before 30.12.2008. Since the petitions were filed on 11.11.2008 and the audited results were to be placed before the AGM by 30.12.2008, there was justification for the transferor, not filing the audited results. 121. But what happened after 30.12.2008, has actually changed the complexion of the game. Neither by 30.12.2008 nor even by 30.12.2009, the transferor has been able to get the financial position of the company for the year ended 31.3.2008/30.6.2008, audited and presented before Court. The reason appears to be that all the 1,600 or more retail shops run by the transferor have been closed and the inventories valued at Rs.551 crores by the transferor, are said to have evaporated into thin air. Though the transferor has fought shy of admitting this fact, they have admitted that with the closure of all the shops, their access to the stocks/inventories in those shops, has become next to impossible. 122. If we look at the financial position of the transferor, as indicated in para 6 of C.P.No.239 of 2008, it is clear that the transferor is still shown as clinically alive, only on the ventilator of the inventories. Sans these inventories, the transferor is atleast clinically dead. A look at paragraph 6 of C.P.No.239 of 2008 shows the following position, as per the unaudited accounts:- With the dissipation of stocks in entirety (valued at over Rs.551 crores), the question of unavailability of the latest audited financial position, assumes greater significance. While I do not find fault with the transferor for not filing the latest audited financial position as on 31.3.2008/30.6.2008, at the time when the C.P., was filed on 11.11.2008, I cannot also shut my eyes to the admitted inability on the part of the transferor to file it even after a year and the admitted dissipation of stocks, valued at over Rs.551 crores. 123. The objection that the latest financial position is not available, has therefore to be viewed in the context of "public interest" and in the context of the question whether the Scheme is just, fair and reasonable. What constitutes public interest and the role played by the principle of public interest in considering a Scheme, was considered by the Supreme Court in Hindustan Lever Employees' Union vs. Hindustan Lever Limited {1995 (83) Com. Cases 30}. It was held therein as follows:- 124. In J.S.Davar v. Shankar Vishnu Marathe [AIR 1967 Bom. 456], Y.V.Chandrachud, J, speaking for the Division Bench pointed out that "the creditors of a company may agree to accept a fraction of the amount due to them from the company and yet, on considerations of more lasting importance, like public or commercial morality, the Court may refuse to accept the verdict of the majority". The Court further held as follows: More importantly, the Court held that "if the acceptance of the Scheme would lead to the stifling of an inquiry into the conduct of the delinquent directors, the Court would be slow to give its sanction to the Scheme". After referring to the facts of the case before them, the Court held in paragraph 24 of its decision that "a Scheme of reconstruction of a company which is ordered to be wound up must postulate that on some reasonable hypothesis it is possible to revive the business of the company and that when the assets of the Company are so meagre and its liabilities so large, it is in a state of hopeless insolvency and that from that state it would be impossible to resuscitate it". The summary of the financial position of the company that was before the Bombay High Court, given in paragraph 34 of the report, is almost akin to the position of the transferor company in these proceedings. The company has not only large liabilities and meagre assets (actually no assets), but as matters stand today, it has neither a place to carry on its business nor the equipment with which to conduct it. 125. In Magnaquest Solutions (P) Ltd., In re. [2008 (3) Comp. L.J. 345 (A.P.)], a learned Judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court pointed out that "the amalgamation must fulfil some felt need, some purpose, some object and must have some co-relation with public interest". After pointing out that in a departure from the English Law, the Indian Law enjoins a duty on the Court to examine objectively whether or not, the merger is violative of public interest, the Court held that "a valid and good Scheme may yet be bad if it is against public interest or if it is a device to evade the law". 126. However, in In Re: Maknam Investments Ltd. and Ors. [(1996) 87 CC 689 (Cal.)], relied upon by Mr.R.Murari, learned counsel for the petitioner, the Calcutta High Court referred to the decision of the Chancery Division in Sussex Brick Co. Ltd., In re., wherein, it was held that the person opposing the Scheme should affirmatively establish that notwithstanding the view of the majority, the Scheme is unfair. The Court also referred to the decision in Hindustan Lever Employees' Union v. Hindustan Lever Ltd. [(1995) 83 CC 30 (SC)], wherein, it was pointed out that the power of the Court is only to be satisfied whether the provisions of the Act has been complied with, whether the class or classes of persons are fully represented and whether the arrangement is such that a man of business would reasonably approve. 127. Mr.R.Murari, learned counsel for the petitioner relied upon the decision of the Gujarat High Court in Core Healthcare Limited v. Nirma Limited [(2007) 138 CC 304 (Guj.)], in support of his contention that the Court is not really concerned with the commercial decision of the shareholders unless and until the Court feels that the proposed merger is manifestly unfair or is being proposed unfairly and/or to defraud the other shareholders. In this case, the learned Judge of the Gujarat High Court equated the Court to a supervisor, who cannot at all be treated as the author or a policy maker and who cannot, as a consequence, undertake the exercise of scrutinising the Scheme, with a view to find out whether a better Scheme could have been adopted by the parties. 128. In Modiluft Limited and Ors. v. S.K.Modi and Ors. [MANU/DE/2730/2005 ], the Delhi High Court referred to the observations in Sussex Brick Co. Ltd. , wherein, the Chancery Division pointed out that to reject a Scheme as unfair, it should be patently unfair, obviously unfair and unfair to the meanest intelligence and that "unfairness" in that context would mean patent unfairness, obvious unfairness and convincing unfairness. The Court also extracted the opinion rendered by the Gujarat High Court in In Re. Sidhpur Mills Co. Ltd. holding that the Scheme should not be examined in the way a hair splitting expert, a meticulous accountant or a fastidious counsel would do it. 129. But, I do not think that the role of the Company Court examining a Scheme is merely akin to the role of an Appeal Examiner in the Registry of a Court. This is why, the Supreme Court pointed out in Hindustan Lever that the Court has to examine the Scheme objectively and carefully, to see if the merger was not violative of public interest. The emphasis in Hindustan Lever was on the interest of the Society at large and not merely the interest of the shareholders and the employees. 130. Therefore, the Scheme for which the stamp of approval is sought, has to be examined from the point of view of public interest. This is why, some of the objectors have contended that the proposed Scheme is prejudicial to public interest and hence should not be sanctioned. Therefore, let me now turn on to the issue of public interest. 131. Admittedly, the transferee company was originally certified as a Non Banking Finance Company, but the Certificate of Registration was surrendered to the Reserve Bank of India. It is also a listed company with the Madras Stock Exchange. The Madras Stock Exchange has granted in-principle approval to the Scheme by a letter dated 5.8.2008 on condition that at least 25% of the shares issued to the promoters would be locked in for 3 years and the balance for one year. However, the transferee has admitted in para 21 of C.P.No.240 of 2008 that they have already addressed a letter to the Madras Stock Exchange to delete the condition and their request is pending consideration. The transferee has also made an application on 14.8.2008 to the Calcutta Stock Exchange Association Ltd., for listing its shares. By a letter dated 16.10.2008, they have permitted the trading of the shares. 132. Under Clause 7A.8 of the proposed Scheme, the new equity shares of the transferee company issued to the members of the transferor shall be listed and/or admitted to trading on the stock exchanges, where the shares of the transferee company are listed. Therefore, the whole idea behind the proposed Scheme, is obviously to raise huge funds both by way of debt and by way of equity. 133. Even as per paragraph 28 of C.P.No.239 of 2008, the total amount due to 11 out of 12 secured creditors who attended the Court convened Meeting on 31.10.2008 worked out to Rs.696.71 crores. This is in contrast to the figure indicated in para 6 at Rs.639.99 crores. There are also huge outstandings to the suppliers of goods and services and also to unsecured creditors. Therefore, in order to dispel any doubt, I directed the learned counsel for the petitioners to submit an action plan. In response, the learned counsel submitted a revival plan. In short, the revival plan projected by the petitioners is as follows:- Shareholder
Lenders			Rs. 80 Cr.		Rs. 40 Cr.		Same as Banks

Non Lender
Creditors			Rs.105 Cr.	 Rs.105 Cr.	 No interest 
										Repayment over
										2 years. (iv) The summary of assets and liabilities of the merged entity, post-debt restructuring and equity infusion, would be as follows:- 134. It is claimed by the petitioners that the above revival plan has been vetted by the Credit Rating Agency ICRA Limited, with an observation that it would be viable (i) if reduction of debt as per the Scheme of arrangement is achieved and (ii) if the infusion of Rs.250 crores into the company as equity is possible. 135. Thus the revival plan makes it clear that the transferor, who is not in a position to raise funds through any other means, has come up with the last available option viz., that of raising public equity. It is pertinent to note that all channels for the transferor to reach out to Banks and Financial Institutions, are now closed. From the objections filed by the suppliers of goods and services, it is clear that the transferor will not be in a position to restart operations, as per the revival plan, by securing goods and services on credit basis any more. In this whole drama, the members of the public alone, are yet to become victims and the proposed amalgamation obviously seeks to reach out to the members of the public, as a last straw on the camel's back. 136. In such circumstances, it is my considered view that it may not be in public interest to sanction the Scheme, as it would only result in millions of Peters being robbed to pay a few Pauls. The revival plan submitted by the petitioners, is based on several presumptions and surmises, some of which are as follows:- 137. Therefore, it goes without saying that even if any one of the above presumptions does not materialise, the revival plan will collapse. In that event, the merged entity is sure to sink. When it does, it would not only go down along with the existing creditors and shareholders who are already on board this Titanic, but also go down along with a new set of innumerable members of the public who subscribe to the share capital. Therefore, I am of the view that it would not be in public interest to permit such a Scheme. 138. The problem of persons floating companies, running them profitably for a few years, then taking them to the public and vanishing after collecting huge amounts by way of public issues, has been nagging the regulators for the past two decades. After the era of globalisation commenced in 1992, the Office of the Controller of Capital Issues was abolished and many promoters started raising funds from the public at fanciful premiums. Between 1992 and 1996, more than 4,000 companies raised more than Rs.54,000 Crores from investors through public and hybrid issues. Another 1,500 companies raised over Rs.34,000 Crores through 'rights issues' at very high premia. Most of these companies simply vanished into thin air in no time, leaving investors high and dry. On 20.12.1996, a query was raised in the Lok Sabha about the number of companies which made their public issue from 1992 onwards and thereafter had become untraceable. The question was a sequel to certain reports that in the early 1990s, several companies appeared as comets in the horizon of financial market and disappeared with huge amounts of money collected from the public. Those companies came to be known popularly as "Vanishing Companies". Therefore, a public interest litigation was filed in 1998 on the file of the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court, which issued certain directions that actually paved the way for certain reforms. 139. Thereafter, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and the Securities and Exchange Bureau of India jointly set up a Coordination and Monitoring Committee (CMC) in 1999 for identifying companies which raised money from the public and later became untraceable. A Task Force was set up for each Region to assist the CMC in identifying vanishing companies. In the meeting held on 1.7.2000, the following criteria were laid for identifying a company as a vanishing company:- 140. Before the Joint Parliamentary Committee, which investigated the Securities Scam, it was pointed out by an association of investors that during the period from 1992 to 1996, about 15 million small investors came into the stock market through IPOs and that during the said period, a staggering amount of Rs.86,000 Crores were raised through public issues. The Joint Parliamentary Committee reported that though the number of companies which duped small investors ran into thousands, only 299 companies could be identified by the Monitoring Committee. The website of the Press Information Bureau provides the statistics relating to these companies. 141. In an order passed on 8.9.2000 in Appeal No.7 of 2000 in Integrated Amusement Limited vs. Securities and Exchange Bureau of India {MANU/SB/0016/2000 }, the Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai, observed as follows:- 142. Now the Securities and Exchange Board of India have issued regulations, known as "Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009", in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. Chapter II of these Regulations lays down "common conditions for public issues and rights issues". Similarly, Part I of Chapter III prescribes "the eligibility requirements". Regulation 26 contains the conditions for initial public offer (IPO) and it reads as follows:- 143. It was submitted by Mr.R.Murari, learned counsel for the petitioners that by prescribing a lock-in period of 3 years for 25% of the shares issued to the promoters and a lock-in period of 1 year for other shares, the Madras Stock Exchange has already taken care of this contingency. The learned counsel also submitted that this Court can also impose any other condition, for safeguarding the interests of the members of the public, while sanctioning the Scheme. 144. But given the financial status of the transferor and the transferee as on date, I do not think that any amount of safeguards can protect the gullible public from becoming victims. The reason for this conclusion of mine is that even while committing default in payment of statutory dues, from June 2008 onwards, the transferor and the transferee have managed to bring entries on record as though a sum of Rs.230 crores was exchanged as between themselves. Both the transferor and the transferee do not appear to have had so much of funds during the period from 8th August to 15th August 2008 and yet they claim that the transferor paid Rs.230 crores to the transferee and the transferee paid an equivalent amount to the transferor during the same period. The petitioners also claim that these payments were cheque payments, reflected in the books of accounts. Given the financial position of both, this could have been accomplished only by way of cross cheques issued by one to the other and the bank neutralising their effect by one credit entry and one debit entry. The companies which got engaged in such kite flying operations, cannot be allowed to enter into the public domain through stock market, since any amount of restrictions and conditions, may not achieve the desired result. 145. Today, there are lot of winding up petitions pending against the transferor. There are also civil cases as well as criminal proceedings under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act pending against the transferor and its Directors. As rightly pointed out by Kotak Mahindra Bank, the financial status of the transferor was alarming, as per the Scheme of Arrangement filed by one of the shareholders, viz. Cash and Carry Wholesale Traders Pvt. Ltd. The promoter of this shareholder and the promoter of the transferor company are one and the same. Yet, a rosy picture is painted in C.P.No.239 of 2010, while what was presented in the application of the shareholder was different. In comparison, the Scheme of Arrangement proposed by Cash and Carry Wholesale Traders Pvt. Ltd. was one in insolvency, while what is presented in C.P.No.239 of 2008 is one in solvency. 146. Therefore, in the light of the above, I am of the view that the proposed Scheme is not just, fair and reasonable, but is prejudicial to public interest. The revival plan submitted by the petitioners, makes it obvious that the proposed Scheme is not financially viable, since it is structured on many ifs and buts and presumptions and surmises. Therefore, the Court cannot permit consciously, the transfusion of the blood of several members of the public, to a patient who has suffered multiple organ failure and various other ailments and whose chances of survival depends only on miracles. Hence, both these petitions are dismissed. There will be no order as to costs. Svn