(Judgment of the Court was delivered by T.S.SIVAGNANAM, J.) 1. These appeals filed by the revenue under Section 260 A of the Income

 Tax Act 1961 (the Act of brevity) are directed against the common order dated

 26.06.2019 passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (Single Member

 Bench), Kolkata in a batch of 90 appeals. The respondents in these appeals

 are the assessees. The assessments were completed by the respective

 assessing officers by passing individual orders in respect of each of the

 assessees, and the assessees had filed individual appeals before the

 Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), [CIT(A)], who has also passed

 individual orders in each of the assessee's case affirming the order passed by

 the respective assessing officers disallowing the claim of the Long Term

 Capital Gains (LTCG), the assessees have filed appeals before the Tribunal

 which have been allowed by common order dated 26.06.2019 which is

 impugned in these appeals. The Learned Tribunal has not discussed the Page 10 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 merits of each and every case of the assessee but though fit to follow its

 earlier decision in the case of Swati Bajaj Versus ITO for the assessment

 year 2014-2015 in ITA NO.2623/Kol/2018. In certain other cases the

 Tribunal has followed other earlier orders of Coordinate Bench of the Tribunal

 which was also decided broadly on the same lines of Swati Bajaj. The revenue

 has preferred appeals against the common order passed by the Tribunal and

 the grounds raised are all identical and as against the lead case, the revenue

 has preferred ITAT No. 06 of 2022 .Thus, in absence of any separate findings

 rendered by the Tribunal in respect of each of the assessee's case, which is

 not disputed by the Learned Advocates appearing for the assessees, by

 consent of the Learned Advocates on either side ITAT No. 06 of 2022 is taken

 as the lead case where the assessee is Mrs. Swati Bajaj. Therefore, we

 propose to note the facts in the lead case and then proceed to discuss the

 issues canvassed before us and take a common decision in all the appeals. 2. The revenue in ITAT No. 6/2022 has raised the following substantial

 questions of law for consideration:- 28,23,500/- overlooking the fact that the entire transactions
 were stage managed with the object to facilitate the assessee
 to plough back its unaccounted income in the form of fictitious
 Long Term Capital Gains of Rs. 28,23,500/- and claim bogus
 exemption. (iv) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case the
 Learned Income Tax Appellate Tribunal erred in deleting the
 disallowance of commission of Rs. 14,118/- purportedly
 incurred by the assessee towards payment to brokers who
 allegedly entered into the share transactions at the behest of
 the assessee overlooking the fact that the entire transaction
 were stage managed with the object to facilitate the assessee
 to plough back its unaccounted income in the form of fictitious
 Long Term Capital Gains of Rs.28,23,500/- and claim bogus
 exemption, thereby giving rise to the vice of flaw in the
 decision making process. 3. The assessee in the lead case, Mrs. Swati Bajaj filed the return of

 income for the assessment year 2014-2015 declaring a total income of Rs.

 6,57,300/-.The return was selected for scrutiny and notice under Section

 143 (2) of the Act and under Section 142 (1) of the Act were issued to the

 assessee. The assessee was represented by her advocate before the

 assessing officer who had submitted documents in compliance with the

 notice issued under Section 142 (1) of the Act. The assessee is stated to have

 produced the copy of the income tax returns, profit and loss account, Page 12 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

balance sheet, computation of total income, statement of STCG/LTCG, D-

Mat account, contract notes, bank statements and other details. The

assessing officer after scrutiny of the documents produced, directed the

assessee to submit the details of shares purchased and sold during the year

under consideration and immediate three preceding years in respect of STT

paid in LTCG/STCG and was directed to explain with evidence that the

transactions were genuine as the assessee had earned LTCG. On verification

of the computation of income the assessing officer noted that the assessee

had shown long term capital gain of Rs. 28,23,500/- and claimed the same

as exempt. The assessee was directed to file complete details as well as the

evidence with respect to such claim of exempt income. The assessee filed

copy of contract notes in support of purchase and sale of shares of Surabhi

Chemicals on which the long-term capital gains was claimed. From the

details furnished by the assessee, it was seen that the assessee had

purchased 50,000 shares of the company for Rs. 1,00,000/- on 16.03.2012

and 14.08.2012. Soon after the expiry of the period to become eligible for

long term capital gains, the assessee sold those shares for Rs. 29,23,500/-

and such sales were effected during the period from 04.12.2013 to

07.12.2013 and the long term capital gains (LTCG) was computed for the Rs.

28,23,500/-. The assessing officer noted that within a short span to time of

17 to 21 months, the assessee managed to sell the shares with increased

value of about 2823% that to when the general market trend was recessive.

It appears that there were several such transactions which led to an

investigation being commenced by the Directorate of Income Tax

Investigation, Kolkata. A report in this regard was submitted by the Deputy Page 13 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

Director of Income Tax Investigation, Unit - II (3), Kolkata dated 27.04.2015

which report was furnished to the Director General of Income Tax

Investigation in Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Bhopal,

Chandigarh, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Kochi, Kolkata, Lucknow,

Patna, Pune and Director General (International Taxation) Mumbai. The

investigation report dated 27.04.2015, which is available in the public

domain narrates the modus operandi adopted for the purpose of claiming

bogus LTCG. The stocks which were the subject matter of transaction were

referred to as "penny stocks" and the companies whose shares were traded

in the various stocks exchanges and it is reported that the figure of total

transaction of the brokers is little more than Rs. 15,970 crores as against

the total trade in the scripts which is more than Rs. 38,000 crores. The

report further states that the cash trail has been established from the cash

deposit accounts to the account of the beneficiary for a sum of more than

Rs. 1,575 crores. The broker wise split up have been furnished. The modus

operandi has been set out in the report, the types of penny stocks

companies, the entities involved in the transactions, the different stages of

the transactions, the merger method which was adopted and also

mentioning about that large number of non-resident Indians and many well

known foreign investors are buying or selling these penny stocks and it

appears to be a case of black money cash stashed abroad coming back to

India (purchase) or money be sent out of the country (sale). Further the

report states that while little over Rs. 27.57 crores has gone out of the

country while the amount which has come in is more than Rs. 114.97

crores. The report further states that in the whole project total 84 BSE listed Page 14 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

penny stocks have been identified after which several search and survey

operations were conducted in office premises of more than 32 share broking

entities who have accepted that they were actively involved in bogus

LTCL/STCL scam. Surveys were also conducted in the office premises of

many accommodation entry providers and their statements were recorded in

which they have admitted their role in the scam. The beneficiaries of more

than Rs. 38,000 crores have been identified and segregated, totally 60,000

Pan Nos. of the beneficiaries have been identified which is in the process of

being reported to the assessment wings through the DGITs. Further the

report states that in numbers more than 5000 paper/shell companies are

involved in providing bogus accommodation of various kinds. Statements

from most of the Directors of the Companies have been recorded and were

appended to the Report. The report also states that the massive cash trail of

Rs. 1,570 crores has been traced from the point it is being deposited to an

undisclosed proprietorship bank accounts to the accounts of share brokers.

This led to recording statements from the share brokers who have accepted

that the said cash has been used for providing accommodation entries of

bogus LTCG. The report further states that it is not full and final as they

intend to update the data base on regular basis with new actions against

entry operators. In Chapter 2 of the report, a detailed comment on the

modus operandi has been set out. In Chapter 3, there is a brief discussion

on all listed penny stocks scripts used in bogus LTCG scam. Chapter 4

furnishes the details of share brokers involved in the syndicate and their

modus operandi. Chapter 5 furnishes the details of entry operators involved

in the syndicate and their modus operandi. Chapter 6 furnishes the details Page 15 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 of the penny stock companies/bogus clients used for purchasing shares of

 listed penny stocks for providing LTCG to beneficiaries. Chapter 7 sets out a

 sample cash trail of Rs. 1,500 crores and Chapter 8 deals with the action

 initiated by the Securities and Stock Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and the

 beneficiaries who are covered under the search and survey operations. 4. The report dated 27.04.2015 appears to have triggered action throughout

 the country and the appellant would state that the Directorate of

 Investigation vide a letter dated 03.07.2015 reported that prices of shares of

 penny stocks were artificially rigged to benefit of assessees through bogus

 claims of LTCG. It is further stated that the report submitted by the

 Directorate of Investigation mentions about the prices of shares of various

 companies which includes Surabhi Chemicals and the prices were artificially

 rigged to provide bogus LTCG. It is submitted that the trade pattern of the

 shares follows a "bell" shape, the company which has hardly any business

 activity, splitting of shares takes place after which price of the shares on the

 exchange goes down automatically in proportion with the ratio of split and

 one does not see anything adverse happening in the scripts. Further the

 shares of the company were very thinly traded and gradually the value is

 jacked up to a desired level in a period of about one year so as to provide

 desired amount to selected beneficiaries. The companies which are involved

 has neither made any announcement nor does it have any history of dividend

 rights from financial year 2009-2010 up to 2013-2014 and it is rather

 peculiar to note that from December, 2011 to August 2013, the share market

 were almost flat and even the investments in peers have not resulted into any Page 16 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 gain but the shares of Surabhi Chemicals had risen to such a level without

 any fundamentals which is beyond anyone's imagination. 5. In the background of all these investigations, the case of the assessee

 was discussed by the assessing officer pursuant to the show cause notice

 dated 29.11.2016. The assessee sent reply through her advocate stating that

 she fails to understand the nature of investigation carried out by DIT against

 Surabhi Chemicals and the nature of specific information which is received so

 as to contemplate a genuine transaction as a sham transaction. The assessee

 further stated that there is no mention of any specific information against or

 the company and the letter is general in nature. Therefore, the assessee

 requested to give specific details of manipulations or connivance carried out

 by either of the concerned persons directly related to the equity shares of the

 company in which the assessee had traded. Thus, the assessee's case was,

 based on suspicion the transaction cannot be termed as in-genuine. The

 assessee further stated LTCG arising from transfer of penny stocks cannot be

 treated as bogus merely because SEBI has initiated an enquiry with regard to

 the company as well as the brokers as the shares have been purchased by

 her from the stock exchange and payment was made by cheque and delivery

 of shares have also been taken. Further it was stated that merely because a

 small amount was invested in penny stocks and it gave rise to huge capital

 gains in a short period does not mean that the transaction is bogus. Further

 it was stated that the assessee's share broker is M/s Horizon Financial

 Consultant Private Limited who are a very reputed equity brokerage house and

 by making a general allegation the transaction done by the assessee cannot

 be termed to be a sham transaction. Further the assessee stated that in case Page 17 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

there was any specific incident of any admission by any such person which

points out to the assessee, request was made to produce the said person for

cross examination. The assessee has also placed reliance on the annual

report of Surabhi Chemicals to justify her stand that the company was very

much in business in the year of purchase, in the year of sale and also in the

succeeding years. Further it was stated that the company has earned a profit

before tax of Rs. 117.06 lakhs and paid tax of Rs. 34.24 lakhs in the year

2012-2013 when the assessee purchased the shares and in the year of sale

the company reported profit before tax of Rs. 118.47 lakhs and paid tax of Rs.

38.44 lakhs. Therefore, it was submitted that the company has sufficient

business and financial assets and the allegations made by the department is

unfounded. Further it was stated that the assessee is a regular investor in

mutual funds and equity shares of various quoted companies listed on BSE

and NSE and she has been earning capital gains both short term and long

term and they have been accordingly taxed as per provisions of the Act.

Further the assessee stated that she fails to understand as to on what basis

the department has classified the share as a penny stock though the assessee

received bonus from the said company, dividend from the said company and

prominent share analyst and research company M/s. Abrams Consultancy

Services Private Limited made a "buy" call on shares of the said company and

since the assessee is a regular investor in equity shares she made investment

in the shares of the company based on the reports. The assessee stated that

she bought 500 equity shares of Surabhi Chemicals which was quoted on the

BSE on 16.03.2012 at Rs. 200/- per equity share and such cost price came

to Rs. 1,00,000/- and the payment was made through account payee cheque. Page 18 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

The assessee to show that she is a regular trader and investor in equity share

for several years, produced the details of the investment made by her.

Further, it was stated that the 500 equity shares were transferred in the

name of the assessee on 18.07.2012 and were sent for D-Mat on 14.12.2012

and dematerialised on 29.12.2012. The assessee is stated to have allotted

bonus share from the company on 14.08.2012 in the ratio of 9 shares for

every 1 share held and since she had purchased 500 equity shares she

received 4500 further equity shares as bonus which were also transferred to

D-Mat account. Further it was stated that the equity shares of the company

were sub-divided i.e for every one share having nominal value of Rs. 10, the

equity holders got 10 shares of Rs. 1 and the assessee got 45,000 equity

shares thus, totally holding 50,000 equity shares in the said company. The

assessee placed reliance on the various decisions of the tribunal as well as

the High Courts for the proposition that when purchase of shares was found

to be genuine and were sold through proper banking channel no adverse

inference can be drawn against the assessee and the addition made under Section 68 of the Act was to be deleted. With the above submissions, the

assessee stated that since there is no specific or material findings against her

so as to alleged the gain as an unexplained cash credit and that the assessee

has fully and truly disclosed all facts with all supporting evidence and the

entire transaction having been done through proper banking channel and

supported by proper bills and contract notes, it stand fully explained and the

entire transaction is verifiable with agencies to prove that assessee has

transacted and therefore the question of invoking Section 68 of the Act does

not arise. Page 19 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH 6. The assessing officer after taking into consideration the submissions

 made by the assessee and the documents produced by the assessee noted

 that from the contract notes, it was seen that the assessee purchased 50,000

 shares in Surabhi Chemicals of Rs. 1,00,000/- on 16.03.2012 and

 14.08.2012 and just after completion of one year and few months, when the

 investment in shares become eligible for LTCG, it was sold for Rs.

 29,23,500/- and total LTCG was computed for Rs. 28,23,500/- and in that

 process, the assessee has managed an increase of almost 2823 % in a short

 span of 17 to 21 months. The assessing officer then referred to the

 communication received from the Directorate of Investigation and took note of

 the fact that in the list of companies which have been mentioned in the report

 of the Directorate of Investigation includes M/s. Surabhi Chemicals and it has

 been ascertained that the share prices have been artificially rigged to provide

 bogus LTCG. The assessing officer also noted the trade pattern of the shares

 which followed a "bell" shape. After noting the above, the assessing officer

 points out that the facts and circumstances leading to the transactions done

 by the assessee seen in a larger frame reveals accommodation entry scam as

 reported by the Directorate of Investigation more particularly when the

 investment by the assessee was in a company having no financial worth and

 such investment does not confirm to normal behaviour of an investor. The

 assessing officer relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in CIT

 Versus Durga Prasad More 1 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court pointed

 out that the taxing authorities are entitled to look into the surrounding 1 (1971) 82 ITR 540 Page 20 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 circumstances to find out the reality and the matter has to be considered by

 applying the test of human probability. 7. For the same proposition, the Assessing Officer also referred to the

 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sumati Dayal Versus CIT 2.

 Taking note of the said legal principle, the Assessing Officer points out that

 considering the surrounding circumstances and applying the test of human

 probabilities coupled with the report of the Directorate of Investigation which

 was discussed in the assessment order, it was held that the assessee had

 been a party to a pre-designed mode of transaction and invested in the shares

 of M/s. Surabhi Chemicals to convert unaccounted cash under the guise of

 LTCG amounting to Rs. 28,23,500/- and therefore, the said amount is

 considered as income from undisclosed sources denying the claim of

 exemption as LTCG. Further, the assessing Officer stated that the share

 brokers/ entry operators charged Rs. 10/- to Rs. 540/- per Rs. 100/- of

 cheque amount and calculated the unexplained expenditure trade

 commission charged by the operators and worked out the sum of Rs.

 14,118/- and the total addition was computed at Rs. 28,37,618/-. The

 assessee was informed that penalty proceedings under Section 271(1)(c) of

 the Act is to be initiated separately. With the above finding, the assessment

 was completed by Order dated 22.12.2016. 8. The assessee preferred appeal before the CIT(A) reiterating the stand

 taken before the Assessing Officer. Before the CIT(A) it was contended that

 the Assessing Officer never pointed out any discrepancy in any of the

 documents submitted and nothing adverse was mentioned about the 2 (1995) 214 ITR 801 (SC) Page 21 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 assessee. Further, it was contended that the assessee has discharged the

 burden of proving the genuinity of the transaction and the burden of proving

 the contrary stand shifted to the department which has completely failed to

 discharge such burden and the assessment having been based on suspicion

 and surmises is illegal. Further in spite of the assessee having demanded for

 copy of any specific information pertaining to the assessee covered in the

 report of the Directorate of Investigation and to make available the share

 broker/ Director of the company for cross-examination, the Assessing Officer

 did not reply to such request made by the assessee which goes to show that

 there is no specific information or material adverse to the assessee. It was

 submitted that the assessee having proved the identity, genuineness of the

 transaction cannot be denied the claim for the LTCG. The assessee relied on

 various decisions of the Tribunals and the High Courts most of which were

 also placed before the Assessing Officer. 9. The CIT(A) after considering the entire facts and the papers and

 documents produced by the assessee holds that they are merely papers and

 documents and not evidence of genuine transaction and the whole gamut of

 the transactions are unnatural and suspicious transaction and therefore, the

 rules of suspicious transaction shall apply in the assessee's case. Further,

 the CIT(A) holds that there is grave doubt on the story proposed by the

 assessee before the Assessing Officer are enough to justify the humongous

 accruing to the assessee by way of capital gains. Further, with regard to the

 bank documents, the CIT(A) states that they are mere self-certifying recitals

 and cannot save the assessee. To support of such contention, reliance was Page 22 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

placed on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in P. Mohanakala3 as well

as the decision in Durga Prasad More and Sumati Dayal. The CIT(A)

referred to the decision of the High Court of Delhi in Sajan Dass & Sons

Versus CIT 4, wherein it was held that a mere identification of the donor and

showing the memo of the gift amount through bank channel was not

sufficient to prove the genuineness of the gift and the claim of gift having

been made by the assessee the onus is placed on the assessee to establish

the identity of the persons making the gift and also his capacity to make a gift

and that it has actually be received as gift from the donor. The CIT(A) referred

to a decision of the Bombay Bench of the ITAT in the case of M/s. Mont Blane

Properties and Industries Pvt. Ltd., ITA No. 614/Bom/87 A.Y. 1983-84

wherein the Tribunal held that the word "evidence" as used under Section

143(3) covered circumstantial evidence also and cannot be confined to direct

evidence and in tax jurisprudence the word "evidence" had much wider

connotations. Further, the use of the word "material" in Section 143(3) showed that the Assessing Officer not being a Court could rely upon material

which might not strictly be evidence admissible under the Indian Evidence

Act , for the purpose of making an order of assessment. Further, the CIT(A)

held that the payment through bank, performance through the stock

exchange and other features are apparent features and the real features are

the manipulated and abnormal price of offload and a sudden peak thereafter

and therefore, the CIT(A) concludes that the transactions fall in the realm of

suspicious and dubious transactions. The CIT(A) referred to the decision of 3 291 ITR278 (SC) 4 264 ITR 435 (Del.) Page 23 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 the High Court of Bombay in Sanjay Bimalchand Jain Versus Pr.CIT

 dated 10th April, 2017 upholding the order of Nagpur Bench of the Tribunal

 holding that on the facts emergent in the case and the preponderance of

 probabilities, the entire capital gains claim were to be treated as fictitious and

 bogus. Finally, the CIT(A) concludes by observing that the fantastic sale price

 was not at all possible as there was no economic or financial basis to justify

 the price-rise, the assessee had indulged in a dubious share transaction

 meant to account for the undisclosed income in the guise of LTCG. With the

 above finding, the appeal filed by the assessee was dismissed. 10. The assessee preferred appeal before the learned Tribunal. The learned

 Tribunal commences its order stating that the sole and identical issue raised

 in the batch of appeals (90), is the genuineness of the assessee's claim of

 LTCG/LTCI of the capital loss derived from sale of shares and since the

 issues are identical, the case pertaining to the assessee Swati Bajaj is taken

 as the lead case. In Paragraph 3 of the impugned order, the learned Tribunal

 extracts the order passed by the CIT(A) in its entirety, after which in

 paragraph 4 the Tribunal holds that there is no merit in the argument of the

 revenue as the assessee has placed on record the relevant contract notes

 proper documentary evidence undertaking purchase/ sale of the shares

 through registered brokers by banking channels, D-Mat statement etc. and

 there is nothing to pinpoint anything against the assessees. The learned

 Tribunal referred to decision of the Coordinate Bench in Mahavir Jhanwar,

 Kolkata Versus I.T.O., ITA N0. 2474/Kol/2018 dated 01.02.2019, where

 the Tribunal allowed the assessee's appeal on the ground that decision in all

 cases should be based on evidence and not on generalization, human Page 24 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 probabilities, suspicion, conjectures and surmises. Reference was made to

 the decision of this Court in CIT Versus Carbo Industrial Holdings Ltd.5,

 CIT Versus Emerald Commercial Ltd. 6 and the decision of the High Court

 of Bombay in CIT Versus Shri Mukesh Ratilal Marolia7. Ultimately, the

 learned Tribunal concludes by stating that it adopts the reasoning given by

 the Coordinate Bench of the Tribunal and allows the appeal in the lead case

 namely, that of the assessee Mrs. Swati Bajaj. With regard to remaining 89

 appeals the learned Tribunal states that the same order will apply to the

 remaining 89 appeals in the absence of any distinction pointed out by the

 revenue. Aggrieved by such order, the revenue has preferred this appeal

 before this Court. 11. Mr. Aryak Dutta, learned Senior Standing Counsel appearing for the

 revenue in the lead case submitted that the learned Tribunal ignored the

 direct and circumstantial evidence brought on record by the Assessing Officer

 to establish that the share price of Surabhi Chemicals have been manipulated

 leading to fictitious LTCG of Rs. 28,23,500/- which the assessee has claimed

 to be exempt from taxation. It is submitted that the order passed by the

 learned Tribunal suffers from perversity as it ignored the facts brought on

 record establishing manipulation of share prices of Surabhi Chemicals as part

 of device to generate fictitious LTCG. Further, the learned Tribunal

 overlooked the fact that the entire transaction was stage-managed with the

 object to facilitate the assessee to plough back its unaccounted income in the

 form of fictitious LTCG. The learned Standing Counsel has referred to the 5 214 ITR 244 Calcutta High Court 6 (2001) 250 ITR 539 7 ITA No. 456 of 2007 Bombay High Court Page 25 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

findings recorded by the Assessing Officer, CIT(A) and pointed out that the

learned Tribunal without even noting the intricate factual details allowed the

appeal filed by the assessee. The learned Tribunal has not rendered any

finding on the modus operandi adopted in the entire transaction. It is further

submitted that the learned Tribunal ought to have seen that the investigation

is directed against penny stock companies and it has been established that

the share prices were rigging and therefore, the question of conduct of

investigation on the assessee is not necessary. More particularly, owing to the

admitted fact Surabhi Chemicals is a penny stock company. Learned Standing

counsel has referred to the relevant portions of the investigation report

submitted by the DIT. In support of his contention the learned Senior

Standing Counsel referred to decisions in Durga Prasad More and Sumati

Dayal rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, where under it was held that

the Court and the Tribunals have to judge the evidence before it by applying

the test of human probabilities, the surrounding circumstances which

exercise had been done by the Assessing Officer and affirmed by the CIT(A).

Reliance was placed on the decision of the High Court of Madras in CIT

Versus Manish D. Jain 8and it is submitted that in the said decision all the

decisions rendered have been referred to and the modus operandi which has

been adopted was also examined and the appeal filed by the revenue was

allowed, and the decision was followed in PCIT Versus Prabha Jain 9.

Reliance was placed on the decision in Tharakumari Versus ITO 10 in which

case the Court noting the nature of transaction of Shell Company as sham, 8 (2020) SCC Online Mad 5876 9 (2021) 439 ITR 304 (Mad.)(HC) 10 (2019) SCC Online Mad 9523 Page 26 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

dismissed the appeal filed by the assessee. Reference was made in the

decision of the Tribunal in Abhinav Agarwal Versus DCIT, Meerut 11

wherein the facts were considered by the Tribunal and the transaction done

by the assessee therein was held to be not genuine. Reliance was placed on

the decision in CIT Versus N.R. Portfolio Pvt. Ltd.12 which decision was

approved by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as reported in (2019) 15 SCC 529.

This decision is pressed into service to explain as to the manner and mode of

conducting assessment proceedings, the application of the principle of

preponderance of probabilities as to how the entire material would be

germane for completing the assessment and that certificate of incorporation

of a company, payment by banking channels etc. cannot in all cases

tantamount to satisfactory discharge of the onus on the assessee to prove the

genuineness of the transaction. To explain as to how the expression "when

the assessee offers no explanation" occurring in Section 68 has to be

interpreted, reliance was placed on the decision in CIT Versus P.

Mohanakala13 With regard to the burden of proof/ onus of proof reliance

was placed and decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Roshan Di Hatti

Versus CIT 14. For the same proposition reliance was placed on the decision

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kale Khan Mohammad Hanif Versus

Commissioner of Income Tax15. Reliance was placed on the decision of the

High Court at Bombay in Sanjay Bimalchand Jain L/H/Shantidevi

Bimalchand Jain Versus the Principal Commissioner of Income Tax, 11 2022 SCC Online ITAT 28 12 (2012) SCC Online (Del.) 6466 13 2007 6 SCC 21 14 1977 2 SCC 378 15 1963 50 ITR 1 SC Page 27 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 Nagpur & Anr., Income Tax Appeal No. 18 of 2017 dated 10.4.2017

 wherein the Court upheld the order passed by the learned Tribunal which

 had held that the fantastic sale price was not at all possible as there was no

 economic or financial basis as to how a share worth Rs. 5 of a little known

 company would jump from Rs. 5 to Rs. 485. The learned Senior Standing

 Counsel distinguished the decision in Carbo Industrial Holdings, Mahavir

 Jhanwar and Emerald Commercial Ltd. which were referred to by the

 Tribunal on the ground the facts and circumstances were entirely different. 12. Mr. Vipul Kundalia, learned Senior Standing Counsel appearing for

 the revenue in the other appeals referred to the decision in Principle

 Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi Versus NDR Promoters Pvt. Ltd. 16

 wherein the Court relies on the decision of the Tribunal after noting that the

 transactions done by the assessee was clearly sham and make believe and

 the excellent paper work to camouflage the bogus nature. It is submitted by

 Mr. Vipul Kundalia that the Court has to consider the totality of the

 circumstances as to how the action was initiated to prevent black-money

 being converted and the seed was sown by constituting a special

 investigating team pursuant to the directions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 in Ram Jethmalani & Ors. Versus Union of India & Ors. 17 The learned

 Standing Counsel has elaborately referred to the various paragraphs of the

 decision to explain as to how the modus operandi adopted in these cases are

 very complex and pursuant to the directions issued by the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court special investigating team was constituted and this exercise was done 16 2019 SCC Online (Del.) 6599 17 (2011) 8 SCC 1 Page 28 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

by various departments and the present investigation done by the Income

Tax department is a follow up of the investigation which had commenced in

the country since 2011. Therefore, it is submitted that the Assessing Officer

and the CIT(A) rightly construed the surrounding circumstances and denied

the claim of LTCG as being bogus. The learned standing Counsel has taken

us through relevant portions of the investigation report to explain the

machinery which was adopted, how the beneficiaries were identified as to

how companies like Surabhi Chemicals have been found to be penny stock

companies and their names find place in the investigation report. Specific

reference was made to the pictorial representation to explain the nature of

transaction as to be "bell" shaped and how the share prices steeply fall after

the expiry of the eligibility period for claiming LTCG. Therefore, it is

submitted that the profit earned is clearly due to manipulation done in the

stock market and the onus is on the assessees to prove the transactions to

be genuine which has not been discharged by them and the Tribunal

erroneously reversed the order passed by the Assessing Officer as confirmed

by the CIT(A). Reliance was placed on the decision in Sanjay Kaul Versus

Principal Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi-818 wherein an identical

test was considered, a view taken by the Assessing Officer while referring to

the surrounding circumstances, the human conduct and preponderance

probabilities and lack of financial logic coupled with the modus operandi

was approved by the Court by dismissing the appeal filed by the assessee. In

the said decision, the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Suman 18 MANU/DE/1506/2020 Page 29 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 Poddar Versus ITO19 has been extensively relied upon. Reliance was placed

 on the decision in the Udit Kalra Versus ITO 20 where the Court affirmed

 the order passed by the learned Tribunal which rejected the case of the

 assessee in more or less similar factual circumstances after noting the

 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in McDowell and Co. Ltd. Versus

 CTO 21 wherein it was held that the tax planning should be legitimate,

 provided, it is within the framework of law and any colourable device cannot

 be part of tax planning and it is linked to encourage or entertain the people

 that it is honourable to avoid the payment of tax by dubious methods. 13. Mr. Samarjit Roy Chowdhury, learned Senior Standing Counsel

 appearing for the Revenue in other appeals referred to an office

 memorandum issued by the Central Board dated 16th September, 2009 by

 which exemption was withdrawn in respect of appeals to be filed in penny

 stock cases, regardless of the monetary limit fixed in the earlier circular. It is

 submitted that this office memorandum carves out an exception from the

 applicability of the circular issued by the Board fixing monetary limits for

 filing appeals before the Courts. The learned Standing Counsel explained as

 to what is "penny stock" in the American concept and submitted that when

 the share price is less than one dollar it is referred to as a penny stock. So

 far as the Indian concept, "penny stocks" are shares which are traded at

 very low prices such as less than Rs. 100 per share. The learned Standing

 Counsel has drawn our attention to the assessment order passed in the case

 of the assessee, Dinesh Kumar Banshal which is the subject matter of ITAT 19 (2019) 112 Taxmann.com 330 (SC) 20 MANU/DE/1507/2019 21 (1985) 154 ITR 148 Page 30 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

No. 31 of 2020 and submitted that it is one of the well-drafted assessment

orders dealing with all issues elaborately. The learned Standing Counsel has

drawn our attention to the relevant paragraphs in the assessment order to

emphasize this submission that the Assessing Officer has clearly brought

out the machinations of fraudulent, manipulative and deceptive dealings by

misusing the stock exchange system to generate bogus LTCG. It is pointed

out that the stock brokers as well as the Director of M/s. Kailash Auto

Finance Limited were examined on oath and they have accepted that rigging

of prices of the shares have been done. Further, our attention has been

drawn to the report of the special investigating team which has been

extensively referred by the Assessing Officer. Further, the Assessing Officer

has listed out the companies in which the stock brokers have made

manipulative and deceptive dealings and Kailash Auto Finance Limited is

one such company. The Assessing Officer has also elaborately discussed the

various decisions and ultimately, completed the assessment and denied the

claim for LTCG. The said order was affirmed by the CIT(A). However, the

Tribunal by a common order in 9 appeals, allowed the appeals following the

decision in Mahavir Jhanwar, the correctness of which decision has been

canvassed in the other appeals before this Court. It is further submitted that

none of the findings recorded by the Assessing Officer or the CIT(A) had been

controverted by the learned Tribunal. In support of this contention, the

learned Standing Counsel referred to the decision of the High Court of Delhi

in CIT Versus Nipun Buliders & Developers Pvt. Ltd.22 dated 07.01.2013.

This decision was pressed into service to explain the concept of burden of 22 ITA NO. 120 of 2012 Page 31 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 proof and upon whom the burden lay qua Section 68 of the Act. In the cases

 on hand, the assessee has not discharged the burden which has been cast

 upon them which was rightly noted by the Assessing Officer as well as the

 CIT(A) but erroneously reversed by the Tribunal. Reliance was placed on the

 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in CIT, Bihar Versus S.P. Jain 23

 for the proposition that if no cogent reasons has been given by the Tribunal,

 for rejecting the findings of the Assessing Officer and if the Tribunal failed to

 take into account the relevant materials on record and has based its

 findings on mere conjecture and surmises, the order of the Tribunal has to

 be interfered. 14. Mr. Soumen Bhattacharya, learned Junior Standing Counsel

 appearing for the Revenue referred to the budget speech of the Hon'ble

 Minister of Finance on February 1, 2018 wherein it was pointed out that

 the total amount of exempted capital gains from listed share and units is

 around Rs. 3,67,000 crores as per the returns filed for the assessment year

 2017-18 and major part of this gain has accrued to corporates and LLPs and

 this has also created a bias against manufacturing, leading to more

 business surpluses being invested in financial assets. Further, the return on

 investment in equity is already called attractive even without exemption and

 there is therefore a strong case for bringing long terms capital gains from

 listed equities in the tax net. Reference was made to the speech of the

 Hon'ble Minister of Finance during the Budget 2022-23 wherein the Hon'ble

 Minister had referred to "Mahabharat" and the duty of the tax payer for

 voluntary compliance of the tax liability. Reliance was placed on the decision 23 AIR 1973 SC 977 Page 32 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in McDowell and Co. Ltd. Versus CTO 24

 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that tax planning may be

 legitimate provided its within the framework of law. Colourable devices

 cannot be part of tax planning and it is wrong to encourage and entertain

 the belief that it is honourable to avoid the payment of tax by resorting to

 dubious methods and it is the obligation of every citizen to pay the tax

 honestly without resorting to subterfuges. Commenting upon the order

 passed by the Tribunal, it is submitted that the order of the Tribunal

 directly and substantially interferes with the interest of the revenue and the

 findings are not based on the evidence brought on record by the Assessing

 Officer, the order suffers from material irregularities without independent

 reasons and the Tribunal has glossed over the relevant facts and therefore,

 the order of the Tribunal suffers from perversity. In support of such

 contention, reliance was placed on the decision of the High Court at Madras

 in PCIT Versus Rakesh Sarin 25. 15. Mr. Om Narayan Rai, Learned Senior Standing Counsel appearing for

 the other appellant submitted that the case of the assessee from the

 inception is that the revenue has acted on generalized report of the

 investigation done by the department and there is nothing specific relatable

 to the assessee. Secondly, it was contended that copy of such investigation

 report was not furnished to the assessee. Learned Counsel submitted that

 circumstantial evidence can be the sole basis for taking the decision in the

 matter. In this regard, reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble 24 AIR 1986 SC 649 25 TCA NO. 1060 of 2019 Page 33 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

Supreme Court in SEBI Versus Kishore R. Ajmera 26wherein the Court has

pointed out as to the important aspect with regard to the proximity of time

between the buy and sell orders, prior meeting of minds, unnatural rise in

the prices of the scripts and how the conclusion can be gathered from the

various circumstances coupled with preponderance of probabilities.

Therefore, it is submitted that absence of direct evidence is immaterial.

Reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

Commissioner of Customs Versus Dilip Kumar and Company 27 for the

proposition that exemption notification should be interpreted strictly, as the

burden of proof, admittedly would be on the assessee to show that his case

comes within the parameters of the exemption clause or exemption

notification. It is submitted that Section 10 (38) of the Income Tax Act is a

provision where exemption is being claimed by the assessee and the burden

is on the assessee to prove that he is entitled to the claim for exemption

which the assessees before this Court have failed to establish. With regard

to the arguments of the assessee that the investigation report is general and

not assessee specific, it is submitted that the assessee has not pleaded any

prejudice on account of non-supply of the investigation report. Therefore

mere non-furnishing of the report will not vitiate the proceedings. Without

noting these legal principles, the Learned Tribunal had posed a wrong

question to itself which has resulted in a wrong answer. The correct

question that the learned Tribunal should have asked itself is whether the

assessee was prejudiced on account of non-supply of the investigation 26 (2016) 6 SCC 368 27 (2018) 9 SCC 1 Page 34 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

report. To explain the test of prejudice or the test of fair hearing. Reliance

was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in SBI Versus S K

Sharma 28. Reliance was also placed on the decision of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in SBI Versus M.J. James for the same proposition that

prejudice should exist as a matter of fact or to be based upon the definite

inference of likelihood of prejudice flowing through non-observance of

natural justice. It is submitted that none of the assessees have pleaded any

prejudice caused to them and merely by stating that the report has not

furnished to them nor the Director of the company was not been made

available for cross examination would not suffice. Reliance was placed on

the decision of the Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court in Kishanlal

Agarwalla Versus Collector of Land Customs 29. This decision was

pressed into service that as long as the party charged has a fair and

reasonable opportunity to see, comment and criticize the evidence,

statement or record on which the charge is being made against him, the

demands and the test of natural justice are satisfied and cross examination

in that sense is not a technical cross examination in a Court of Law. For the

same proposition reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in State of J&K Versus Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad &

Another 30 wherein it was held that a right of hearing cannot include a right

of cross examination and the right must depend on the circumstance of

each case and must also depend on the statute under which the allegations

are being enquired into. Thus, by referring to the above decisions, it is 28 (1996) 3 SCC 364 29 AIR 1967 Cal 80 30 AIR 1967 SC 122 Page 35 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

submitted when the statements recorded during the investigation were not

against the assessee, they are not entitled to claim any right of cross

examination. The next submission of Mr. Rai is on the powers of the

Appellate Tribunal under Section 254 of the Act. It is submitted that the

nature of the powers were interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

Hukum Chand Mills Limited Versus CIT 31 wherein the Court held that

the tribunal had jurisdiction to frame the question raised for the first time.

It is submitted that on a reading of Section 254 (1) and Section 255 (6) of

the Act clearly shows the power exercisable by the Tribunal and they are

akin and equal to that of the power exercisable by the assessing authority

and in the case on hand the tribunal ought to have exercised such power

and or its failure renders the order as perverse. For the same proposition,

reliance was placed on the decision of the High Court of Bombay in New

India Assurance Limited Versus CIT 32. It is submitted that the said

decision was approved by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ajay Gandhi and

Another Versus B. Singh and Others 33 wherein it was pointed out that

the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal exercised judicial function and has

trappings of a Court and that it is the ultimate fact finding authority under

the Act. The Learned Standing Counsel referred to Section 107 and Order 41

CPC to explain the powers to the Appellate Court and as to how this Court

can exercise the jurisdiction in the matter. The Learned Counsel referred to Section 260 A (7) of the Act as also Section 103 and Order 41 Rule 33 CPC to explain the powers of this Court. Further to explain the powers of the 31 AIR 1967 (SC) 455 32 AIR 1958 Bombay 143 33 (2004) 2 SCC 120 Page 36 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 Court, reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Division Bench of

 this Court in C.C.A.P. Limited Versus Commissioner of Income Tax 34.

 The next submission was on the effect of Section 10 (38) of the Act.

 Reference was made to Section 2 (13) of the Act which defines the term

 "business". Elaborate reference was made to the decision of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in G. Venkataswami Naidu and Company Versus CIT 35

 to explain as to how the adventure is in the nature of trade. It is submitted

 that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has laid down the test to be applied for

 determining the character of the transaction in paragraph 17 of the

 judgment and if the test are applied to the facts of the instant case, it will

 clearly reveal the intention behind the purchase of shared by the assessees. 16. The learned Senior Standing Counsel reiterated the findings in the

 report of the Special Investigation Team constituted pursuant to the orders

 passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and referred to the recommendations

 of the Special Investigation Team with specific reference to misuse of

 exemption on LTCG for money laundering. It was pointed out that a

 company with poor financial fundamentals in terms of past income or turn-

 over is able to raise huge capital allotment of preferential allotment of shares

 is made to various entities, there is sharp rise in price of script once the

 preferential allotment is done and this is clearly achieved through circular

 trading of shares among a selected group of companies. These scripts of the

 companies often have own promoters/brokers. The scripts with thus

 artificially inflated price are offloaded through companies whose funding is 34 (2004) 270 ITR 248 35 AIR 1959 SC 359 Page 37 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 proved by the same set of people who want to convert black-money into

 white. Therefore, it was stated that there is an urgent need for an effective,

 preventive and punitive action in such matters to prevent recurrence of such

 instances. Several recommendations were made by the SIT after noting the

 relevant facts. It is submitted that in terms of Section 114 of the Evidence

 Act, the Court may presume existence of certain facts and if read along with Section 4 of the Evidence Act which explains the words "may presume", and

 the facts of the cases on hand being examined will clearly show the

 circumstances under which the Assessing Officers have acted and the facts

 were considered and also the normal human conduct of an investor,

 preponderance of probabilities and the surrounding circumstances and

 finding has been rendered. It is reiterated that the Tribunal clearly abdicated

 its powers, did not examine any of the facts which it is required to do in

 terms of the power conferred on the Tribunal under the Act. With the above

 submission, the learned Standing Counsel prayed for allowing the appeals. 17. Mr. Tilak Mitra, learned Senior Standing Counsel for the appellant

 while adopting the submissions made by the other learned Standing

 Counsels, referred to an assessment order dated 18.11.2016 in the case of

 the assessee, Sanjay Kumar Ostwal (HUF) for the assessment year 2013-14

 and invited our attention to the observations made by the Assessing Officer

 to demonstrate the modus operandi adopted in the matters and as to how

 M/s. S.R.K. Industries was a penny stock company and how the share

 prices were rigged and the assessee who had invested a sum of Rs.

 1,00,000/- for purchase of 10,000 shares in SRK Industries was able to sell

 those shares after 14 months for a total consideration of Rs. 75,61,372/- Page 38 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 thereby earning total LTCG of Rs. 74,68,959/-. Therefore, it is submitted

 that the Tribunal brushed aside these important facts and erroneously

 reversed the orders passed by the CIT. Further it is submitted that SRK

 Industries is one of the 84 companies which have been listed as penny stock

 companies in the investigation report. 18. Mr. Prithu Dhudhoria, learned Junior Standing Counsel appearing in

 the some of the appeals submitted that in one of the appeals in ITA no. 156

 of 2021, (assessee, Girish Tikmani), the Assessing Officer without discussing

 the facts by a cryptic order accepted the claim of the assessee towards LTCG

 in respect of shares purchased and sold by the assessee of a shell company.

 The Commissioner of Income Tax (CIT), exercised power under Section 263 of the Act and reversed the order passed by the Assessing Officer. The

 learned Standing Counsel has elaborately referred to the findings recorded

 by the CIT and submitted that the assessee did not furnish any details

 which has been clearly noted by the Commissioner who on facts found the

 assessment order to be erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of the

 revenue. It is submitted that power under Section 263 of the Act could be

 exercised by the Commissioner and one of the circumstances which would

 justify invoking such a power is where the Assessing Officer has failed to

 conduct any enquiry. The CIT has clearly brought out in his order that no

 enquiry was conducted by the Assessing officer and mechanically the return

 filed by the assessee was accepted. Reliance was placed on the order passed

 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Deniel Merchants Pvt. Ltd. Versus ITO

 in Special Leave Appeal No. 23976 of 2017 dated 29.11.2017 wherein the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court dismissed a batch of appeals arising out of orders Page 39 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 passed by the CIT under Section 263 of the Act. The Hon'ble Supreme Court

 held that the CIT has observed that the Assessing Officer did not make any

 proper enquiry while making the assessment and accepting the explanation

 of the assessee insofar as receipt of share application money is concerned

 and on that basis the CIT had, after setting aside the order of the Assessing

 Officer, directed the Assessing Officer to carry a thorough and detailed

 enquiry and this order which had been upheld by the High Court was not

 interfered. With the above submissions, the learned Standing Counsel

 adopted the argument made by the other Standing Counsels. 19. Mr. Subhash Agarwal, Learned Advocate leading the arguments on

 behalf of the assessees, submitted by the department and that the copy of

 the investigation report was not furnished to the assessee and the stand

 taken by the revenue that the report is not required to be furnished is not

 tenable. The learned Advocate referred to the decision of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in T. Takano Versus SEBI in Civil Appeal No. 487-488 of

 2022, dated February 18, 2022 and submitted that the revenue has no

 right to withhold the investigation report which appears to be the basis of

 the entire controversy. It is submitted that if the order of the tribunal, in the

 opinion of this Court has not properly discussed the facts of the case then

 the matter requires to be remanded to the tribunal for re-consideration. The

 Learned Advocate has drawn our attention to the investigation report and

 submitted that the report identifies the list of penny stocks and neither the

 name of the assessee, Smt. Swati Bajaj, nor the name of the stock broker of

 the assessee has been mentioned therein. To explain the concept of risk-

 reward ratio, the learned advocate referred to various articles which have Page 40 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

been published to demonstrate that there is nothing tainted to invest in a

penny stock company and it is an accepted practice in the stock market to

trade in such stocks. In this regard the learned advocate referred to an

article which has been published in the internet advising the investors as to

how to buy unlisted shares. Reference was also made to a news item in the

Economic Times dated 27.04.2022 titled "one multidagger stock a day! Tax's

the average of what D-street caught in the last two years". Nextly, the learned

advocate referred to the final order passed by SEBI dated 21.09.2017 by

which 244 entities which were treated as penny stocks have been

exonerated and one such entity is M/s. Kailash Auto in which the assessee

had invested. It is submitted that the revenue has taken strong exception to

the off-market transaction which is approved manner of transaction and to

explain the methodology of off-market transaction, reference was made to

the news item in the Economic Times. Further referring to other articles

which have been published in the internet, it is submitted that efficacy of

both technical and fundamental analysis is disputed by the efficient- market

hypothesis, which states that stocks market prices are essentially

unpredictable and research on whether technical analysis offer any benefit

has produced mixed result. The learned advocate also referred to a list of

top investors in India and submitted that all of them hail from a particular

state in the country whose business acumen and the courage to take risk

has been well recognized. To explain the concept of fluctuation in the market

price, the learned advocate referred to a tabular column culled out from a

magazine, "Capital Market" issue of April-May, 2022. It is submitted that the

percentage of fluctuation is calculated with the formula, viz, price divided by Page 41 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 earnings per share and referring to the figures therein, by way of

 illustration, it is explained that the percentage of fluctuations between 200

 to 600 is realistic. 20. It is submitted that the four basic principles of law as has been

 consistently adopted by courts are: It is submitted that these four cardinal principles have been ignored by the

 department. It is submitted that the assessee Smt. Swati Bajaj had invested

 in robust companies and there is absolutely no reason to doubt the

 genuinity of the transaction. Further it is submitted that if the addition

 made by the respective assessment officers on account of alleged bogus,

 LTCG/STCG at best it can be, a sum of Rs. 9822 crores and not the

 astronomical figure, (Rs. 38,000 crores), mentioned by the revenue before

 this Court. The learned Advocate has referred to the assessment in the case

 of Smt. Swati Bajaj and submitted that there is no adverse comment or

 statement against the share brokers of the assessee, M/s. Horizon Financial

 Consultant Private Limited. The documents which have been furnished by

 the assessee have been set out by the Assessing Officer in his order dated

 22.12.2016 in paragraph 3 and in sub-para (d) of Para 3, the assessing

 officer has noted the explanation given by the assessee as to how the

 investment was made and going by the investment made by the assessee, it

 is seen that only 25 % of the investment made by the assessee was in Page 42 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

Surabhi Chemicals which is stated to be a penny stock company. Thus, it is

submitted that the facts clearly shows that the assessee, Smt. Swati Bajaj is

a bona fide investor in stocks and shares. Further it is submitted that the

assessing officer himself notes that the sale of the shares done by the

assessee was not immediately after the period eligible for LTCG but after 17

to 21 months. Further the assessing officer has referred to investigation

report which forms part of the findings recorded by him and therefore the

report should have been furnished to the assessee. Commenting upon the

reasoning given by the CIT (A) in his order dated 22.11.2018, it is submitted

that the First Appellate Authority failed to note that the investment made by

the assessee was in a robust company and this fact has not been

appreciated by the appellate authority. Further it is submitted that the

revenue had raised serious objections with regard to the findings rendered

by the tribunal in paragraph 4 of the order dated 26.06.2019 wherein it has

been mentioned as STCL instead of LTCG and that being only a

typographical error cannot be blown out of proportion. Further the articles

appearing in Hindu Business Line were referred to show as to how the SEBI

had banned off-market transaction of shares done by brokers through power

of attorneys and other than that there is nothing wrong to enter into off-

market transaction. To explain the concept of divergence, reference was

made to an article published in Investopedia. Similarly, an article published

on "Delan" was referred to and it is submitted that stocks that display a

usually are blue chip stocks and once that for lower volatility and more

predictable behavioural patterns. Investors used in normal probability Page 43 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 distribution of stocks past returns to make assumptions regarding expected

 future returns. 21. Mr. Agarwal next referred to compilation of decisions and firstly took

 us through the decision in Sumati Dayal and referred to the facts as

 mentioned in paragraphs 8 and 12 of the judgment and submitted that the

 facts in the said case was entirely different and could not have been applied

 to the assessees case. Nextly, the learned counsel sought to distinguish the

 decision in Durga Prasad More and submitted that in the said decision the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the case of the assessee was based on self-

 serving documents which is not the case of the assessee Smt. Swati Bajaj.

 The decision relied on by Mr. Rai Standing Counsel in the case Kishore R.

 Ajmera was referred to and it was submitted that the matter pertain to

 stocks brokers and the decision can have no application to the facts of the

 case of Smt. Swati Bajaj. With regard to the decisions in the case of Manish

 D. Jain, it is submitted that on facts the Madras High Court recorded that

 SEBI and the assessing officer found that the assessee Manish D. Jain

 played a role in inflating price which is not so in the assessees case.

 Similarly, distinguishing the decision in Pinky Devi, it is submitted that in

 the said case the assessee failed to discharge the onus cast upon her which

 is not so in the case of Smt. Swati Bajaj as she had furnished the contract

 notes and all other documents. To explain the concept of as to how a

 judgment has to be read, reliance was placed on the decision in CIT Versus

 Sun Engineering Works Private Limited 36. Reliance was placed on the

 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dhakeswari Cotton Mills 36 (1992) 198 ITR 297 (SC) Page 44 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

Limited Versus CIT 37 for the proposition that assessments cannot be

based on surmises and conjectures. The learned advocate referred to the

assessment order in the case of the assessee Suman Kumar which is the

subject matter of ITAT No. 128 of 2021 and submitted that the assessment

order clearly shows that the names of the brokers/sub brokers and nowhere

the name of the assessee, Suman Kumar finds place. Reliance was placed on

the decision of the Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court in ITA No. 129 of

2012, Classic Growers Limited Versus CIT Kolkata-(III), Kolkata, dated

28.02.2013 wherein the Court allowed the assessees appeal after having

found that the assessee neither suppressed any income nor sold any

property by undervaluing the same. Reference was made to the decision of

the Division Bench of this Court in ITA 22 of 2009 in CIT Versus Bhagwati

Prasad Agarwal wherein the Division Bench of this Court confirmed the

order of the tribunal which held that the chain of transactions entered into

by the assessee have been proved. Reliance was placed on the decision of

this Court in ITAT No. 78 of 2017 in PCIT Versus M/s. BLB Cables and

Contractors Private Limited dated 19.06.2018 for the same proposition.

Reliance was placed on the decision of the Division Bench of this Court in

CIT Versus Lakshmangarh Estate and Trading Company in ITA No.

270 of 1999 dated 07.10.2013 for the proposition that suspicion can never

be taken as proof. Reliance was placed on the decision of the Division Bench

of this Court in PCIT Versus Rungta Properties Private Limited ITAT No.

105 of 2016 dated 08.05.2017 wherein the Court affirmed the view taken

by the First Appellate Authority holding that the assessing officer has not 37 (1954) 26 ITR 775 (SC) Page 45 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

doubted the genuineness of the documents placed on record by the assessee

therein as in the case of the assessee before this Court. Reference was made

to the decision of the High Court of Bombay in ITA No. 456 of 2007 in CIT

Versus Mukesh Ratilal Morolia dated 07.09.2011 wherein the Court

refused to interfere with the decision of the Tribunal holding that the

purchase and sale of shares are genuine. The appeal filed by the revenue

before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Special Leave to Appeal (Civil Appeal

No. 20146 of 2012) was dismissed by the order dated 27.01.2014. For

similar proposition as to how the assessee has discharged the burden of

proof, reliance was placed on the decision of the High Court of Punjab and

Haryana in ITA No. 18 of 2017 in PCIT Versus Hitesh Gandhi dated

16.02.2017 and also the decision in PCIT Versus Prem Pal Gandhi in ITA

No. 95 of 2017 dated 18.01.2018. Reliance was placed on the decision of

the High Court of Gujarat in PCIT Versus Parasben Kasturchand Kochar

in Tax Appeal No. 204 of 2020 dated 17.09.2020 wherein the revenue

was unable to prove that the transaction was pre-arranged as well as sham

and was carried out through penny scripts companies/paper companies and

the appeal filed by the revenue was dismissed. Reliance was placed on the

decision of the High Court of Delhi in PCIT Versus Smt. Krishna Devi 38

wherein the argument based on the theory of human behaviour and

preponderance of probability was rejected and the investment made by the

assessee in the said case was also in penny stocks. To explain the doctrine

of merger, reliance was placed on the decision of the High Court of Gujarat 38 (2021) 126 taxmann.com 80 Page 46 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 in Nirma Industries Limited Versus DCIT 39. By placing reliance on the

 decision of the High Court of Rajasthan in CIT Versus Smt. Pushpa

 Malpani in ITA No. 50 of 2010 dated 15.11.2010, it is submitted that in

 the said case the Court found that at the time of the transaction the broker

 in question was not banned by SEBI and this finding was approved by the

 High Court and the appeal filed by the revenue was dismissed. Thus, Mr.

 Agarwal summed up his submission by contending that no adverse findings

 has been recorded against Surabhi Chemicals, the assessee, Smt. Swati

 Bajaj, is a bonafide investor was advised by an expert stock broker who has

 not come under adverse notice and the assessee had placed all the

 document before the assessing officer and the genuinity of the same has not

 been doubted by the assessing officer. Further it is submitted that the sale

 effected by the assessee cannot be stated to be when the prices were at the

 peak and the transaction cannot be treated to be a speculative transaction

 to bring it under Section 43(5) of the Act. Therefore, it is submitted that the

 orders passed by the tribunal may be affirmed. 22. Mr. Saurabh Bagaria, learned advocate appearing for the appellant in

 ITAT No. 138 of 2021 had painstakingly taken us through the assessment

 order dated 09.12.2016 and submitted that the assessee had made

 investment in reputed companies yet suffered long term capital loss. The

 assessing officer while issuing the show cause notice alleged that the dealing

 of penny stocks by the assessee was nothing but manipulation to book

 manufactured loss in connivance with entry operators through stock

 brokers, though the three companies were alleged to be such penny stocks 39 (2006) 155 Taxman 330 (Guj) Page 47 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

after reply was submitted by the assessee the assessing officer reconciled to

the fact that one of the three companies cannot be branded as a penny

stock. Further it is submitted that the assessee had held the stocks for more

than 6 months. Further by referring to the paragraph 3.5 of the assessment

order, it is submitted that the statements has been relied upon but the copy

of the statement was not given to the assessee in spite of specific request

that apart in the statement there is nothing alleged against the assessee,

despite which, the addition was made. It is submitted that the assessee in

the return of income had also mentioned about the short term capital gains

on account of receipt of compensation received from the Government of

Haryana for the land acquired from the assessee and this portion of the

return has not been doubted. Further it is submitted that specific request

was made by the assessee not only before the assessing officer but also

before the First Appellate Authority to make available the persons from

whom statements were recorded for being cross examined by the assessee.

Furthermore, the details and documents produced by the assessee were

never doubted either by the assessing officer or by the First Appellate

Authority. Yet the appeal filed by the assessee was dismissed based on

surmises and conjectures. Before the tribunal, the assessee had placed the

facts and the learned tribunal in paragraph 4 of the impugned order notes

the submissions made by the assessee and in paragraph 8 has dealt with

factual position more particularly that the statement of the entry

operators/promoters of the company nowhere mentions the name of the

assessee alleging that he has adopted any dubious means for artificially

rigging the share price. Therefore, it is submitted that the facts have been Page 48 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 considered by the learned tribunal and this Court would not interfere with

 such factual findings. 23. Mr. Bagaria referred to the compilation of case laws and for the

 convenience of the court he has categorized case laws under the seven

 topics. To explain the concept of tax avoiders/tax planning and as to how

 the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in McDowell was interpreted,

 reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Union

 of India Versus Azadi Bachao Andolan 40. The learned counsel has

 elaborately referred to the various paragraphs of the decision and

 emphasized that all parties must have a common intention which is

 conspicuously missing in the assessees case. For the same proposition,

 reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 Vodafone International Holdings Versus Union of India 41 wherein the

 first question was regarding the correctness of the decision in Azadi

 Bachao Andolan. For the same proposition, reliance was placed on the

 decision of the High Court of Hyderabad in Hill Country Properties

 Limited Versus Goman Agro Farms Private Limited 42. Mr. Bagaria also

 referred to the decision of the House of Lords in IRC Versus Duke of

 Westminster 43 which has been extensively referred by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in Azadi Bachao Andolan. On the next topic namely when

 civil consequences entails rules of natural justice must be complied with,

 reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in 40 (2004) 10 SCC 1 41 (2012) 341 ITR 1 (SC) 42 (2015) SCC Online Hyd. 1021 43 (1936) AC - 1 Page 49 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 Sahara India Versus CIT 44 and Kothari Filaments Versus CC 45. It is

 further submitted that in spite of specific request made by the assessee to

 provide the persons from whom statements were recorded for cross

 examination, they have not been produced and this clearly amounts to

 violation of principles of natural justice. To support such argument reliance

 was placed on the decision in Andaman Timber Industries Versus CCE 46,

 Kishinchand Chellaram Versus CIT 47, Arya Abhushan Bandhar Versus

 Union of India 48 and the judgment of this Court in CIT (E), Kolkata

 Versus Mayapur Dham Pilgrim and Visitors Trust in ITAT NO. 312 of

 2017 dated 16.02.2022. 24. To explain the concept of commercial expediency as to how the

 assessing officer cannot sit in the chair of the assessee, reliance was placed

 on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in S.A. Builders Versus CIT

 (Appeals) 49. Reliance was also placed on the decision of the High Court of

 Delhi in Jain Manufacturing (India) Private Limited Versus The

 Commissioner 50 wherein the Court set aside the order cancelling the

 registration of a dealer under the Central Sales Tax Act with retrospective

 effect and held that retrospective cancellation should not prejudicially affect

 the party who acted on the basis of the valid registration. This judgment is

 pressed into service to support the contention that on the date when the

 assessee had purchased the shares there was no allegation against the 44 (2008) 14 SCC 151 45 (2009) 2 SCC 192 46 (2015) 324 ELT 641 (SC) 47 (1980) Supplementary SCC 660 48 (2002) (143) ELT 25 (SC) 49 (2007) 1 SCC 781 50 (2016) 93 VST 326 Page 50 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 company or the stock broker or any other person and therefore any

 investigation done subsequently cannot work prejudice to the assessee who

 is a genuine investor. 25. It is submitted that the revenue largely emphasized on the concept of

 circumstantial evidence which according to the revenue was available to

 lead to the conclusion that the claim of LTCG/STCL was bogus. To explain

 the concept of circumstantial evidence and the cardinal principles which the

 court has to follow, reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in State of Uttar Pradesh Versus Satish 51,

 Chintalapati S. Raju Versus SEBI 52. Further it is submitted that very

 recently the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Balram Garg Versus SEBI in CA

 No. 7054 of 2021 dated April 19, 2022 considered the decisions in the case

 of Kishore R. Ajmera heavily relied upon by the revenue and had observed

 that unless there are foundational facts, question of relied upon

 circumstantial evidence could not arise. It is submitted that the reasonable

 expectation of the assessee is to know the things which obviously can be

 based on reasonable inference drawn from foundational facts which is

 missing in the assessee's case. The learned advocate referred to the decision

 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Gorkha Security Services Versus

 Government (NCT of Delhi) 53 to explain the concept of prejudice as to how

 the assessee has been prejudiced on account of non-supply of the materials,

 statements, report, not affording opportunity for cross examination etc.

 Lastly, it was contended that the investigation report which appears to be 51 (2005) 3 SCC 114 52 (2018) 7 SCC 443 53 (2014) 9 SCC 105 Page 51 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 the basis of the entire matter was not given to the assessee in spite of

 specific request made by the assessee, that apart the genuineness of the

 documents which were placed by the assessee was never doubted by the

 assessing officer or the First Appellate Authority and those documents

 where rightly taken note of the by the tribunal and the appeal filed by the

 assessee was allowed and the same would not call for any inference. Mr.

 Bagaria submitted that he has also been instructed to appear in ITAT No.

 168 of 2021 wherein the assessee had invested in the shares of M/s.

 Esteemed Bio Organics though the trading activities of the said company

 was initially suspended subsequently SEBI had lifted the ban and

 exonerated the said company. With the above submission the learned

 advocate prayed for affirming order passed by the tribunal and dismissing

 the appeal filed by the revenue. 26. Mr. S.M. Surana, Learned Senior advocate appearing for the

 appellants in ITAT No. 156 of 2021, 157 of 2021 submitted that there is a

 small distinction in the case of the assessees than the other cases which

 were argued before this Court as the orders impugned in these appeals,

 passed by the Learned Tribunal arise out of an order passed by the

 Commissioner of Income Tax under Section 263 of the Act. Therefore, it is

 submitted that in the course of his argument he would seek to sustain the

 order of the tribunal not only on the grounds which were canvassed by the

 other learned advocates for the assessees but more importantly on the

 ground that the Commissioner could not have exercised his power under Section 263 of the Act. The Learned Senior Counsel referred to the facts in

 ITAT No. 156 of 2021 wherein the assessee is Mr. Girish Tikmani, it is Page 52 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

submitted that the assessing officer examined the return of income filed by

the assessee in declaring the total income of Rs. 6,76,490/- and the return

which was processed under Section 143(1) of the Act, was selected for

scrutiny and subsequently the assessing officer issued notices under Section 143(2) and 142(1) of the Act. In response to such notice the assessee

appeared through his authorized representative from time to time and

produced details and documents as called for which were test checked and

the case was discussed and thereafter the assessment was completed by the

order dated 29.07.2016. The assessing officer stated that on perusal of the

details submitted by the assessee that during the financial year 2013-2014

relevant to assessment year 2014-2015, the assessee derived income from

LTCG and claimed exemption under Section 10(38) of the Act. Further the

assessing officer noted that the assessee had made share transactions

through M/s. SHCIL Services Limited. On noting that a letter was sent by the

assessing officer under Section 133(6) of the Act to M/s. SHCIL for

verification of the transactions done by the assessee regarding sale of shares

from the reply received from M/s. SHCIL, the details appear to have been

confirmed with the details furnished by the assessee and the assessing

officer also noted that all transactions were made through banking channels

and no discordance has been found in the transactions and accordingly, the

total income was computed. It is submitted that the assessing officer noted

that the transactions were done by the assessee through a public sector

undertaking and to establish the same, the learned senior counsel referred

to write up about the SHCIL downloaded from the goggle to show that it is

the public sector undertaking and therefore the question of doubting the Page 53 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

bona fides of the sale transactions done by the assessee does not arise.

Further it is submitted that the assessing officer after issuance of the

notices under Section 143(2) and 142(1) of the Act had called for details and

documents which were furnished by the assessee and after discussing the

case and also verifying the fact from M/s. SHCIL by intimation under Section 133(6) of the Act, the assessment was completed and the

assessment could not have been set aside by the Commissioner by invoking

his powers under Section 263 of the Act. It is submitted that the learned

Commissioner had pre-decided the issue even at the stage of issuance of the

show cause notice under Section 263 of the Act. In the order dated

10.12.2018 passed under Section 263, the learned Commissioner would

state that the assessees return of income was selected for scrutiny on the

ground of suspicious LTCG based on inputs from investigation done.

Further it was stated that an error was detected in the assessment order

and proposal was received by the Commissioner for review of the

assessment order under Section 263 of the Act. Further the Commissioner

would state that prima facie it appears the assessing officer had failed to

take a logical action on the information available with him and accordingly

the assessment order is erroneous in so far as it was prejudicial to interest

of revenue. It is submitted that this was the basis on which the show cause

notice date 06.11.2018 was issued and in the said show cause notice

reference was made to an investigation done by the Directorate of Income

Tax (Investigation), Kolkata regarding the accommodation entry of LTCG and

number of beneficiaries who have taken huge amount of bogus LTCG were

identified and this led to the identification of penny stocks which have been Page 54 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

used for generating bogus LTCG. The Commissioner referred to the scripts

of Unno Industries Limited which were traded by the assessee and without

mentioning any details, the assessee was called upon to show cause as to

why the assessment order should not be rendered as erroneous and

prejudicial to the interest of revenue as the assessing officer should have

treated the LTCG claimed by the assessee as bogus. It is submitted that the

Commissioner foreclosed the issue and reduced the show cause notice as an

empty formality. The assessee submitted their written submissions and also

documents before the Commissioner. The Commissioner thereafter

proceeded to hold that credible information was available with the assessing

officer from which it was clear that the assessee had adopted the practice of

accepting accommodation entries and in turn availed bogus LTCG, the

assessee had benefited by trading and making manipulations in the scripts

of Unno Industries Limited and claimed exemption under Section 10(38) of

the Act. Thereafter the Commissioner proceeds to extract the report said to

have been prepared by the Director General of Income Tax Investigation,

West Bengal and observed that the scripts of Unno Industries Limited was

suspended by the SEBI for price rigging and insider trading. In paragraph

5.6.3 and 5.6.4 of the order dated 10.12.2018, the Commissioner notes the

transaction done by the assessee with regard to the shares of Unno

Industries Limited and states that after completion of one year the

assessee sold the shares which he had purchased at Rs 1.25 paisa was sold

at Rs. 30/31, with an increase of about 25 times. The Commissioner blames

the assessee for not submitting the details of the commissions paid by the

assessee. Thereafter certain decisions have been referred to and following Page 55 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 decisions of the tribunal in Sanjay Bimalchand Jain Versus PCIT,

 Nagpur 54 and the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in N.K Proteins

 Limited Versus DCIT 55 passed an order to the effect that the sum of Rs.

 24,35,006/- is an unexplained cash credit under Section 68 of the Act and

 accordingly directed the assessing officer to re-assess the income of the

 assessee for the relevant assessment years. 27. It is submitted that the assumption of jurisdiction by the

 Commissioner under Section 263 of the Act is unsustainable and the order

 is in violation of the principles of natural justice as even at the stage of

 issuance of show cause notice the Commissioner had pre-decided the issue.

 Furthermore, the allegation against the assessing officer is that he failed to

 take a logical action which cannot be a ground to invoke Section 263 of the

 Act. Furthermore, the copy of the report which has been referred to, was not

 furnished to the assessee. That apart the "report" is not a report and it has

 been submitted by an authority who is lowest in the hierarchy of authorities

 in the Income Tax Investigation department. It is submitted that in the

 Income Tax department more particularly in the investigation wing, the top

 most authority is the CBDT through its Member Investigation, followed by

 the Principal Director General of Income Tax (Investigation), Director

 General of Income Tax (Investigation), Director of Income Tax (Investigation),

 Additional Director of Income Tax, (Investigation) and lastly the Deputy

 Director of Income Tax (Investigation)/Additional Director of Income Tax

 (Investigation). It is submitted that the copy of the so-called investigation 54 (2018) 89 Taxmann.com 196 (Bom) 55 (2017) 84 Taxmann.com 195 (SC) Page 56 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

report was relied on by the senior standing counsel for the department

during the course of argument and stated that it can be downloaded from

www.taxguru.im. It is submitted that the "report" is not available in the

official website of the CBDT or the Income Tax Investigation department. It

is further submitted that the author of the "report" himself states that it is a

write up and the same could not have been basis for setting aside the

assessment order by invoking the power under Section 263 of the Act.

Further it is submitted that there are several flaws in the "report" and

nowhere the name of the stock broker through whom the assessee had

transacted namely SHCL nor the name of the assessee features. The learned

senior counsel has elaborately referred to the "report" and pointed out that

the report is thoroughly flawed, they are all personal comments of the

concerned officer who is in the rank of the Deputy Director of Income Tax

(Investigation) and the "report" is not the report of the department and there

is no direction issued by the department to conduct investigation as there is

nothing mentioned in the said report. Further it is submitted that the

"report" states that there is a bogus LTCG claim of nearly Rs. 38,000 crores.

However, this figure has been arrived at based on total trade value. To

explain what is trade value, the learned senior counsel produced a write up

stated to have been downloaded from the google and it is submitted that

trade value is the total amount of buy and sell trades taken place at a time.

Therefore, the so-called figure of Rs. 38,000 crores does not represent the

alleged sale value but it is a trade value which includes the purchase value

as well. Therefore, the figures mentioned are incorrect and reliance cannot

be placed on the said "report". Further it is submitted that the assessees Page 57 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

entire investment is in shares and mutual funds and to strengthen this

argument, the copy of the profit and loss account and the balance sheet of

the assessee for the relevant assessment year was produced. Further it is

submitted that in one of the trading done by the assessee namely with

regard to the shares of the CCL International, a reputed TV Channel, ZEE

Bis.com had given a buy call widely published in the media and therefore to

state that the transaction was bogus is unsustainable, more so when the

assessees stock broker is a public sector undertaking. Further it is

submitted that merely because there is escalation of the price of the shares,

it cannot be stated that the transaction is bogus. In this regard, the various

facts and figures were referred to for the purpose of showing the market

trend. Nextly, the learned senior counsel referred to the various provisions of

the Securities Contract (Regulation) Act 1956, (SCR). More particularly Section 2(a) which defines contract, 2(ac) which defines derivatives to

include securities, Section 2(h) which defines securities to include shares,

scripts, stocks, bonds etc. Section 2(j) which defines stock exchange. It is

submitted that the contract entered into in terms of the provisions of the

Securities Contract Act cannot be treated to be bogus. A stock exchange has

to be recognized by the Central Government in terms of Section 9 of the said

Act and in terms of Sub-Section (2) of Section 9 , any recognized stock

exchange with the previous approval of SEBI may make by-laws for the

regulation and control of the contract and in terms of clause (k), by-law can

be framed for regulating the contract between members or between a

member and its constituent or between a member and the person who is not

a member etc. Further the by-laws of the stock exchange in terms of clause Page 58 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH (r) also provides for making, comparing,, settling and closing of bargains.

Further there is an obligation on the member of a stock exchange to supply

information or explanation and to produce documents relating to their

business as the governing body of the stock exchange may require. Further

it is submitted that if in the opinion of the SEBI, there was insider trading

and rigging of the share prices they could have taken appropriate action.

The contract has not been cancelled by the SEBI nor termed to be bogus

contract. SEBI could have delisted the company and they also have power to

demolish any syndicate if found. However, no such action was taken by

SEBI and even in cases where the trading was suspended for a brief while

by SEBI, subsequently the order of suspension has been revoked and the

shares of the companies are freely tradable. Nextly the learned senior

counsel proceeded to refer to the case laws compilation. To support his

contention that the show cause notice issued by the Commissioner under

Section 263 dated 06.11.2018 was bad in law as it was not issued with an

open mind and the assessees case was pre-decided by the CIT, reliance was

placed on the decision in Oryx Fisheries Private Limited Versus Union of

India 56. Further it is reiterated that the "report" is not a report of the

Government of India or the CBDT or by the head of the Income Tax

Investigation department as there is nothing placed on record to show that

investigation was directed to be conducted. Further it is reiterated that the

officer who stated to have submitted the "report" himself states that it to be

a write up and therefore it is his personal opinion. In any event such

"report" is not binding as it is not a judgment, to support such contention 56 266 (ELT) 422 (SC) Page 59 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 reliance was placed on the decision in Sesa Sterlite Limited Versus

 Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax and Others 57 for the proposition

 on whom the onus of proof would lie, reliance was placed on the decision of

 the Learned tribunal in PCIT, Kolkata Versus Rajrani Export Private

 Limited in ITA No. 1402/Kol/2011 dated 31.05.2012 which order was

 affirmed by this Court in CIT Versus Rajrani Export Private Limited 58. It

 is further submitted that the entire disallowance as made by the

 Commissioner is based on third party information said to have been

 gathered by the alleged investigation and the same could not have been

 relied upon without independent verification either by the assessing

 officer/CIT. To support such contention reliance was placed on the decision

 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Commissioner of Income Tax Versus

 Odeon Builders Private Limited 59. 28. The next argument of the learned senior counsel is that on the

 grounds mentioned by the Commissioner in the show cause notice, power

 under Section 263 could not have been exercised and such power could

 have been exercised only when the assessing officer failed to conduct an

 enquiry which is not the case of the assessee before this Court. With regard

 to under what circumstances the power under Section 263 could be invoked

 and the parameters to be fulfilled, reliance was placed on the decision in

 Commissioner of Income Tax Versus JN Morison India 366 ITR which

 was referred to by the learned tribunal. For the same proposition reference

 was made to the decision in PCIT Versus M/s. Kesoram Industries 57 (2019) 417 ITR 334 (Bom) 58 361 ITR 162 59 (2019) 418 ITR 315 (SC) Page 60 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

Limited 60. Nextly, the learned senior counsel elaborately referred to the

order passed by the tribunal, impugned before us and submitted that

elaborate discussion on the facts has been done, the learned tribunal rightly

held that there is no material quoted against the assessee and the power

under Section 263 could not have been invoked on a mere suspicion. To

support the above arguments, reliance was placed on the decision in

Commissioner of Income Tax Versus Mangilal Didwania 61,

Commissioner of Income Tax Versus Kavita Gupta 62 Commissioner of

Income Tax Versus Saroj Devi 63, Commissioner of Income Tax Versus

Mehrotra Brothers 64. Reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble

Division Bench of the High Court of Madras in Commissioner of Income

Tax Versus Amalgamations Limited 65 to support the argument that

when tribunal has found that there is no error of fact in the order of

assessment and the Commissioner has not indicated any error in law

committed by the assessing officer, the power under Section 263 cannot be

invoked on assumptions. To explain under what circumstances the power

under Section 263 can be invoked, reliance was placed on the decision in

Commissioner of Income Tax Versus South East Construction Company

Limited. Further it is submitted that general observations cannot be a basis

for an addition and to support such proposition, reliance was placed on the

decision of the High Court of Madras in The Commissioner of Income Tax,

Chennai Versus M/s. Accel Limited 421 of 2012 dated 02.08.2021. 60 423 ITR 180 (Kolkata) 61 286 ITR 126 (Raj) 62 211 ITR 206 (All) 63 178 ITR 598 (All) 64 (2004) 270 ITR 157 (MP) 65 (1998) 238 ITR 963 (Mad) Page 61 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 Reliance was also placed on the decision of the High Court of Rajasthan in

 Smt. Harshila Chordia Versus Income-Tax Officer 298 ITR 349

 (Rajasthan). Further the learned senior counsel explained as to how the

 transaction was done by the assessee to establish bona fides. Further it is

 submitted that the department does not allege that the sale affected by the

 assessee to be bogus, but they used an expression "pre-arranged" sale, for

 which no material was referred to by the Commissioner or placed by the

 revenue before the learned tribunal. 29. The learned Senior Counsel submitted that if the Assessing Officer

 had failed to make an enquiry, it is a duty cast upon the CIT(A) to conduct

 an enquiry which he failed to do. Further, the Commissioner while

 exercising the power under Section 263 of the Act has to come to a firm

 decision that the order of the Assessing Officer was erroneous and was

 prejudicial to the interest of revenue and on a reading of the order passed by

 the Commissioner, it is clear that no firm decision has been arrived at by

 the Commissioner more particularly from the language adopted in the said

 order. To support such contention, reliance was placed on the decision in

 the case of Commissioner of Income Tax vs. Kanda Rice Mills 66 . For the

 same proposition reliance was placed on the decision in Uma Charan Shaw

 & Bros. Versus CIT 67 . Further, the learned Senior Counsel reiterated that

 suspicion can never take the place of proof. To support such argument,

 reliance was placed on the decision of CIT, Central-II, Calcutta Versus 66 1989 178 ITR 446 (P&H) 67 37 ITR 271 SC Page 62 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

Lakshmangarh Estate & Trading Co. Ltd.68 dated 7th October, 2017.

Reliance was placed on the decision in CIT Versus Smt. Jamna Devi

Agarwala69, wherein the Court had distinguished the decision in Sumati

Dayal. In support of his contention that the transactions were genuine as

documents were produced by the assessee, reliance was placed on the

decision in CIT Versus Anupam Kapoor 70 and the decision in PCIT

Versus Parasben Kasturchand Kochar, in Tax Appeal No. 204 of 2020

dated 17.09.2020 (Gujarat). Learned Senior Counsel submitted that the

word "consider" finds place in Section 263 of the Act and this term was

explained by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Bhikhubhai Vihlabhai Patel

Versus State of Gujarat 71 which was relied on in the case of Hotel Regal

International & Anr. Versus ITO & Another, WP No. 22950 (W) of 2009

in the High Court at Calcutta. To explain the meaning of the term "opinion",

reference was made to P. Ramanatha Aiyar's The Law Lexicon, 2 nd

Edition which has defined "opinion" to mean a view, a statement. In this

regard, reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

The Barium Chemicals Ltd. & Anr. Versus The Company Law Board &

Ors. 72 It is submitted that the learned Senior Standing Counsel had argued

that the transaction done by the assessee in the purchase of the shares of

penny stock companies is of the nature of an adventure and to explain this

concept, reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in ITO, "A" Ward, 68 ITA No. 270 of 1999 69 328 ITR 656 (Bom) 70 299 ITR 179 (P&H) 71 2008 4 SCC 144 72 1967 AIR 295 Page 63 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 District (A), & Ors. Versus R. L. Rajghoria 73 and such argument was

 never raised by the revenue before the Tribunal and therefore, cannot be

 permitted to be raised for the first time before this Court. To support such

 contention, reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in V.P.

 Samtani Versus CIT, West Bengal-IV 74 and CIT Versus Indocount

 Finance Ltd.75 Further, it is submitted that the decisions referred to by the

 learned Senior Standing Counsel in the case of B.C. Jain, Manish D. Jain,

 Pinki Jain are distinguishably and the facts were entirely different and if

 the circumstances are different, the decisions cannot be applied to the

 assessee's case as each case depends upon its own facts. In support of such

 contention, reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in Megh Singh Versus State of Punjab 76 . The learned Senior

 Counsel produced a note on the modus operandi of share transactions

 which are being done. The learned Senior Counsel referred to the risk

 management framework as published by SEBI to explain as to how the

 share market functions. With the above submissions, the learned Senior

 Counsel prayed for sustaining the order passed by the Tribunal. 30. Mr. Pratyush Jhunjhunwala, learned Advocate appearing for the

 assessee in ITA No. 139 of 2021 submitted that the Assessing Officer in his

 order states that there is direct evidence, if so, such evidence ought to have

 been furnished to the assessee. Further the assessee had given a detailed

 explanation on 15.11.2017 which has been completely ignored by the

 Assessing Officer. The contention raised by the assessee before the 73 (1979) 119 ITR 872 (Cal) 74 (1982) 135 ITR 313 (Cal) 75 (2004) 186 CTR Del 659 76 AIR 2003 SC 3184 Page 64 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

Assessing Officer was reiterated before the CIT(A), which has been noted in

paragraph 4.2 of his order. That apart in paragraph 4.3, the CIT(A) notes

that documents were produced by the assessee. However, in paragraph 4.24

the CIT(A) erroneously came to a conclusion that there was no documentary

evidence. That apart, the assessee had invested in the purchase of shares of

M/s. Jackson Investment Ltd. during October, 2012 and the shares were

sold only in the assessment year 2015-16 and not immediately after the

expiry of one year. It is pointed out that similar investment made by the

other assessees in Jackson Investment was subject matter of consideration

in appeals filed by the assessees before the Delhi Tribunal in ITO Versus

Anupama Garg & Ors.77 and the said decision would clearly apply to the

case of the assessee herein. Further it is submitted that the assessee had

produced sufficient documents to prove the genuineness of the share

transaction done by him and the investigation which has been referred by

the Assessing Officer does not mention anything about the assessee.

Therefore, there was absolutely no ground for the Assessing Officer and the

CIT(A) to have rejected the evidence produced by the assessee and in

support of such argument, reliance was placed on the decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sreelekha Banerjee Versus CIT 78 . Further, the

learned Advocate referred to the computation of income of the assessee for

the relevant assessment year, 2015-16, to demonstrate that the assessee

has been investing in well known companies. It is argued that the findings

rendered by the assessing officer and the CIT(A) are clearly based on 77 2018 SCC Online ITAT 2923 78 (1963) 49 ITR 112 (SC) Page 65 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 surmises and conjectures and the department is required to bring in some

 evidence to doubt the genuinity of the transaction done by the assessee. In

 support of such contention, reliance was placed on the decision in CIT

 Versus Orissa Corpn, (P.) Ltd. 79 To support his argument that under Section 133(6) of the Act, the Assessing Officer is empowered to issue notice

 calling for genuine information for the purpose of any enquiry even in a case

 where proceeding is not pending against the assessee, obtaining approval of

 the director or Commissioner, before issuance of notice and such power

 should have been exercised by the Assessing Officer and without doing so,

 the assessment could not have been completed based on presumptions and

 assumptions. In support of such contention, reliance was placed on the

 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kathiroor Service Cooperative

 Bank Ltd. Versus CIT (CIB )80. The decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 in Kishinchand Chellaram Vesus CIT 81 was relied on for the proposition

 that before the Income Tax Authority could rely upon any evidence they are

 bound to produce, the same before the assessee so that the assessee could

 controvert the statement contained in it by seeking opportunities to cross-

 examine such persons from whom statement was recorded. Therefore, it is

 submitted that considering the fact that the assessee has proved the

 genuinity of the transaction, the Tribunal rightly allowed the assessee's

 appeal and prayed for sustaining the order. 31. Mr. Arif Ali, the learned Advocate appearing for the assessee Gupta

 Agarwal respondent in ITAT 44 of 2020 submitted that the grounds raised 79 (1986) 25 Taxman 80F (SC) 80 (2013) 39 Taxmann.com 49 (SC) 81 (1980) 4 Taxman 29 (SC) Page 66 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 by the revenue in the memorandum of appeal does not relate to the

 assessee's case as the assessee's case is not one of LTCG, the assessee did

 not trade in the shares of M/s. Blue Print but had purchased shares of

 Sulav Engineering and the facts are entirely wrong. Further, the assessee

 had purchased the shares through online mode and not through offline

 mode and availed the services of a reputed broker, the assessee is a regular

 trader and the assessee had effected the transaction through disclosed

 source and to the said effect, materials were produced. However, the

 assessing officer erroneously brushed aside all these by holding that human

 conduct raises a presumption of bogus claim. Therefore, it is submitted that

 considering these factors, the learned Tribunal had rightly allowed the

 appeal. 32. Mr. Aryak Dutta, learned Senior Standing Counsel by way of reply had

 referred to paragraph 14 of the assessment order in the case of Swati Bajaj

 and submitted that the company has paid only Rs. 38 lakhs as income tax

 during the relevant year and it is incorrect on the part of the assessee to

 state that the company is a robust company. Further, it is submitted that

 there are three brokers involved in the entire operations and that has been

 mentioned by the assessing officer in his order and the modus adopted by

 the assessee has also been brought out. With regard to the decision in the

 case of T. Takano relied on by Mr. Agarwal it has been held that the right to

 disclosure is not an absolute right and more importantly, in the cases on

 hand the report does not deal with the assessee but with the company and

 the assessee does not identify himself with the company. Furthermore, the

 report contains third party information and if it was disclosed at the relevant Page 67 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 time, it will affect the entire security market and therefore, no prejudice has

 been caused to the assessee on account of non-furnishing of the copy of the

 investigation report. Reliance was placed on the decision of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in SEBI Versus Mega Corporation Ltd. 82 , wherein the

 claim made by the company for cross-examination was rejected. 33. Mr. Om Narayan Rai in his reply submitted that the claim made by

 the assessee under Section 10 (38) of the Act is a claim for exemption and

 the assessee is duty-bound to show that no addition can be made under the Section 68 of the Act. Unless the assessee discharges the burden, he is not

 entitled to any relief and the assessing officer is justified in making addition

 under Section 68 of the Act. It is reiterated that the trinity test has to be

 satisfied namely, the identity, genuineness and creditworthiness and more

 importantly, the investigation did not commence from the assessee but it

 commenced from the company, the stock brothers who were involved in the

 purchase and sale of the penny stock. Therefore, the creditworthiness and

 genuinity and identity need to be proved at the other end to enable the

 assessee to be entitled for exemption under Section 10(38) of the Act. In all

 the cases, the assessee has failed to satisfy the trinity test and therefore, the

 assessing officer was justified in making the addition. It is further submitted

 that Mr. Bagaria had argued that the law laid down in K.R. Ajmera is no

 longer good law which submission is incorrect and to demonstrate the same

 Paragraph 47 of the decision in Balram Garg was referred to and submitted

 that the law laid down in K.R. Ajmera is good law and has not been

 overruled. 82 2022 SCC Online (SC) 361 Page 68 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH 34. Furthermore, in a later decision in Chintalapati S. Raju, the

 decision in R. Ajmera was referred to and therefore the decision in R.

 Ajmera has not been overruled. Hence the test laid down in R. Ajmera more

 particularly in paragraph 26 has to be fulfilled. Referring to paragraph 13.2

 of Chintalapati S. Raju, it is submitted that in the said case the onus was

 on SEBI whereas under Section 68 , the onus is on the assessee and the

 requirements under the SEBI Act were totally different from that of the

 requirements to be complied with under the Income Tax Act . It is reiterated

 that the credit worthiness of the company has not been proved and therefore

 one of the crucial tests has not been fulfilled and the assessing officer was

 justified in making the addition. In support of such contention, reliance was

 placed on the decision in PCIT Versus NRA Iron and Steel Private Limited

 83 .This decision is pressed into service to emphasis that the credit

 worthiness of the buyer has to be established. With regard to the arguments

 of Mr. Surana that the investigation report is only a write up, it is submitted

 that may a write up from pages 4 to 28 and the report and the details based

 on which the report has been brought out from pages 29 to 401. Therefore,

 it is incorrect to state that the report cannot be looked into. It is further

 submitted that the learned advocates for the assessees had argued that the

 various decisions relied on by the revenue are distinguishable. In this

 regard, certain factual findings in those decisions were referred to. It is

 submitted that what is required to be looked into in a judgment is the

 principle which has been laid down which is termed as the "ratio" and to

 explain this aspect reliance was placed on the decision in Punjab Land 83 (2019) 15 SCC 529 Page 69 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 Development & Reclamation Corporation Limited Versus Presiding

 Officer, Labour Court 84. Therefore, it submitted that what is crucial is the

 source of the source has to be established and the onus is on the assessee.

 Mr. Bagaria by way of submission in rejoinder, contended that the revenue

 had referred to the decision in the case of CIT Versus Redington 85 and in the said decision , the Court found that there were foundational facts which

 are conspicuously absent in the assessees case. 35. We have elaborately heard the learned standing counsels for the

 appellant department as well as the learned senior counsel and the learned

 advocates for the assessees. 36. In the batch of cases which we have heard together, there are broadly

 two categories. The first category of cases are which were dealt with by the

 tribunal by a common order dated 26.06.2019 in which 90 appeals filed by

 the assessees were allowed, though all 90 cases are not before us,

 substantial number of cases are on appeal before us and the lead case is

 that of the assessee Smt. Swati Bajaj. For arriving at a decision in the first

 category of cases, it would suffice to note the factual position in the case of

 Swati Bajaj as the learned tribunal had discussed the facts of the said

 assessee alone and taken a decision to allow the appeal and thereafter

 proceeds to hold that the said decision will apply to the other 89 appeals as

 well. The second category of cases are those where the assessee challenged

 the assumption of jurisdiction by the Commissioner of Income Tax under Section 263 of the Act. Even in those cases there are certain findings 84 (1990) 3 SCC 683 85 (2021) 430 ITR 298 (Mad) Page 70 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

rendered by the tribunal which are more or less identical to the batch of 90

appeals which were allowed by the tribunal. With regard to the correctness

of assumption of jurisdiction under Section 263 of the Act, we shall deal

with them separately in the course of this judgment. Reverting back to the

case of the assessee Smt. Swati Bajaj, it is seen that she had filed her return

of income declaring a total income of Rs. 6,57,300/-. The return was

selected for scrutiny, notices under Section 143(2) and 142(1) of the Act

were issued, served on the assessee pursuant to which she was represented

by her authorized representatives and produced the documents in

compliance with the notice issued under Section 142(1) of the Act. The

assessing officer states that during the course of assessment proceedings,

the assessee Smt. Swati Bajaj was asked to produce the details of shares

purchased and sold during the assessment year under consideration and

immediate three preceding years in respect of STT paid in LTCG/LTCL and

called upon to explain with supporting evidence that the genuineness of the

earned LTCG. In response to such notice the assessee stated that the

assessing officer has mentioned that specific information has been received

from the Director of Income Tax (Investigation), Kolkata that the company

Surabhi Chemicals and Investment Limited in which the assessee had

purchased and sold shares is a penny stock company which is used for

providing entries for bogus LTCG. The assessee stated that there is no

mention of any specific information either against the assessee or against

Surabhi Chemicals in the letter of the assessing officer and it is a general

statement or stated to be based on an enquiry conducted by Director of

Income Tax (Investigation) on the transaction of some other companies or Page 71 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

equity broker. Therefore, the assessee requested to furnish specific details of

manipulation or connivance carried out by either of the concerned persons

directly related to the equity shares of the said company in which the

assessee had traded. Further the assessee would state that any general

information relating to other company's shares cannot be the basis for

casting allegations of suspicion and treating a transaction in-genuine, as no

addition can be made based on suspicion and surmises. Further unless

there are corroborative materials, the transaction done by the assessee

cannot be doubted. It was further stated if certain allegations are made

against the stock broker having devised a scheme to convert unaccounted

money to accounted income, there should be specific allegation against the

assessees stock broker Horizon Financial who are reputed brokers and there

is no specific information or allegations against Horizon Financial. Further

the assessee stated that if there is any specific incident of any admission of

price rigging as per the report of the Director of Income Tax, (Investigation)

pointing towards the assessee, the said person may be made available for

cross examination and without affording such an opportunity action cannot

be initiated. Further the assessee would state that Surabhi Chemicals is a

robust company, referred to its annual report and also mentioned about the

profit earned by the company before tax, the tax paid by the said company

for the year 2012-2013 when the assessee purchased the shares and also

the profit before tax and the tax paid by the company in the year of sale of

the shares by the assessee. Further the Surabhi Chemicals has sufficient

business and financial assets and therefore the allegations made against the

company are unfounded and misleading. Further the assessee stated that Page 72 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

she is a regular investor in equity shares and mutual funds in companies

listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and National Stock Exchange

(NSE) and she has been earning capital gains and they have been

accordingly taxed as per the provisions of the Act. Further the investment

made by the assessee is based upon feedback/tips of the peers of the

investment industry and also based on research reports published in

business newspapers/journals/analyst report. Further the assessee stated

that in that process she had made investment in the equity share of Surabhi

Chemicals quoted on the BSE. Further it was mentioned that the assessee

fails to understand as to on what basis they had classified the shares of

Surabhi Chemicals as a penny stock though the assessee received bonus

from the said company, dividend from the said company and the prominent

share analyst and research company Abhron Consultancy Services Private

Limited issued a buy-call on the shares of the Surabhi Chemicals and since

the assessee is a regular investor, she made such investment. The assessee

stated that the payment was made by account payee cheque from the

regular bank account, produced copies of the purchase bill and other

documents. Further the assessee stated about the investment, how the

bonus shares were declared and how the assessee had sent the transferred

shares for D-Mat. Thus, the assessee would submit that the equity shares

were in D-Mat account and all payments made/received were through

proper banking channels and STT was paid at the point of sale of the shares

and the shares were sold through BSE and the relevant contract notes for

the sale of shares were produced. Further the assessee stated that from the

details of LTCG, it is seen that the assessee had initially incurred a loss of Page 73 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

Rs. 70,765/- rather than earning profit. After relying upon the various

decisions, the assessee stated that she has proper documents to prove the

genuineness of the transactions and the sale was made through recognized

stock exchange i.e BSE after payment of applicable STT. The share broker is

a reputed person, the research report based on which investment was made

was also by a reputed consultancy agency and in the absence of any specific

material against the assessee coupled with the fact that the assessee has

fully and truly disclosed all facts with supporting evidence the question of

invoking Section 68 of the Act does not suffice. The case was discussed by

the assessing officer who notes that in response to the notice issued under Section 142(1) the assessee had produced details which were called for.

Thereafter the assessing officer proceeds to analyze the investment made by

the assessee and notes that assessee purchased 50,000 shares of M/s.

Surabhi Chemicals for Rs. 1,00,000/- on 16.03.2012 and 14.08.2012 and

after completion of one year and few months, when the investment in shares

becomes eligible for LTCG it was sold for Rs. 29,23,500/- between

04.12.2013 to 07.12.2013 and LTCG was computed for Rs. 28,23,500/-

which will show that the assessee has managed to increase the amount by

2823 % in a short span of 17 to 21 months that to when the general market

trend was recessive during the relevant period of time. After mentioning

these details, the assessing officer proceeded to take note of the letter of a

Directorate of Investigation dated 03.07.2015. After elaborately referring to

the said letter wherein it was reported that prices of shares of some penny

stocks were artificially rigged to benefit some assessees through bogus claim

of LTCG, the assessing officer notes that the prices of the shares of Surabhi Page 74 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

Chemicals were also rigged for providing bogus LTCG and all the features of

the companies which were used for providing bogus LTCG are clearly

matching with the trend of the shares of M/s. Surabhi Chemicals and the

trade pattern of the shares follow a "bell shape". The company Surabhi

Chemicals had hardly any business activity, splitting of shares had taken

place and after splitting of shares the prices of the shares on the exchange

goes down automatically in proportion with the ratio of split and one does

not seem anything adverse happening in the scrip. This according to the

assessing officer was adopted by the company to avoid any hype on such

rise in the prices of the shares. Further the shares of Surabhi Chemicals

were very thinly traded and gradually jacked to a desired level in a period of

one year so as to provide desired amount to selected beneficiary. Further the

movement in the price of the shares were not backed by any fundamentals

of the company, the company did not make any announcement nor does it

have any history of declaring dividends from the financial year 2009-2010

up the financial year 2013-2014. Further the assessing officer noted that

from December 2011 to August 2013, the share market was almost flat and

even the investment in peers have not resulted in any gain but the share of

Surabhi Chemicals had risen to such a level without any fundamentals

which is beyond imagination of anyone. Therefore, the assessing officer

observed that the facts and circumstances compels him to see the

transactions entered into by the assessee in a larger frame of

accommodation entry scam as reported. Further investments of the assessee

in a company having no financial worth did not confirm to normal behaviour

of an investor and the behaviour of the assessee does not appear to be real. Page 75 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 The assessing officer placed reliance on the decision in Durga Prasad More

 and held that surrounding circumstances and test of human probabilities

 has to be applied in the assessees case coupled with the report of the

 Director of Investigation to hold that the assessee had entered into pre-

 designed modes of transactions and invested in the shares of Surabhi

 Chemicals just to convert unaccounted cash under the guise of LTCG and

 therefore proceeded to treat the LTCG amount of Rs. 28,23,500/- as income

 from undisclosed sources and denied claim of exemption as LTCG. The

 assessee preferred appeal before the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)

 (CIT (A)). 37. In the preceding paragraphs of this judgment, we have referred to the

 grounds raised by the assessee before the CIT and the various decisions

 which were referred to. After noting the arguments of the assessee, the CIT

 (A) in paragraph 6 of its order dated 22.11.2018, records its findings and

 decision. The CIT (A) agreed with the findings recorded by the assessing

 officer noting the rise and fall of the prices to be artificial and not

 commensurate with the normal market as Surabhi Chemicals had no

 business at all. The CIT (A) observes that whatever papers were submitted

 by the assessee in pursuance to notice issued cannot be construed as an

 evidence to establish the genuinity of the transaction, the transactions are

 unnatural, suspicious and the banking documents produced by the

 assessee are self-serving. Further CIT (A) holds that merely because a

 transaction was done through banking channel itself cannot validate the

 same and the burden of proof is on the assessee to prove genuinely of the

 claim. After referring to the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Page 76 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

Mohanakala, Durga Prasad More, Sumati Dayal and the decision of the

Delhi High Court in Sajan Dass, CIT (A) holds that the documents relied on

by the assessee should pass the test of normal behaviour of the assessee in

the course of business, namely human conduct, preponderance of

probability and surrounding circumstances and if they do not then the

addition is justified. The CIT (A) referred to the decision in N.R. Portfolio to

explain the role of the assessing officer, he being both an investigator and

adjudicator. Further the CIT(A) holds that in Section 143 (3) the word used

is "evidence" which will include circumstantial evidence also and in tax

jurisprudence the word evidence has much wider connotation and further

the word "material" used in Section 143(3) of the Act, showed that the

assessing officer not being a court could rely upon material which might not

be strictly admissible under the Indian Evidence Act and therefore the

assessing officer is not fettered by the technical rules of evidence and would

be entitled to act on the "material". Further the CIT (A) holds that as per the

principle laid down in Sumati Dayal the true nature of transaction can be

ascertained from surrounding circumstances and proof beyond reasonable

doubt has no applicability in determination of matters under taxing statute.

Further the human probability has to be the guiding principle as held by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Chuhar Mal Versus CIT 86. Further the CIT (A)

holds that the payment through banks, transactions through stock

exchange and other features are only apparent features and the real feature

are the manipulated and abnormal price of off-loan and the sudden dip

thereafter. Therefore, the CIT (A) holds that the transactions would fall 86 (1988) 172 ITR 250 (SC) Page 77 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

within the realm of suspicious and dubious transaction. The CIT (A) then

proceeds to take note of the various other decisions of the co-ordinate bench

of the Tribunal to highlight the importance of reports of the investigating

agencies and would point out that it may be true that when transactions are

through cheques it looks like real transactions but the authority is entitled

to look behind the transactions and ascertain the motive behind the

transactions. Thus, the CIT (A) concludes by holding that considering the

facts of the assessee's case and the preponderance of probabilities against

the assessee, the entire capital gains demand has to be treated as fictitious

and bogus more particularly when the assessee has not furnished cogent

evidence to explain how the shares in an unknown company jumped up in

no time and such fantastic sale price was not at all possible when there was

no economic or financial basis to justify the price rise and therefore affirms

the order passed by the assessing officer. Aggrieved by such order, the

assessee was on appeal before the learned tribunal. As mentioned, the

learned tribunal (SMC) took up for consideration 90 appeals together which

includes the appeal filed by the assessee Smt. Swati Bajaj. The learned

tribunal in paragraph 3 of the impugned order extracts the order passed by

the CIT (A) in its entirety which runs to ten pages. The discussion is in

paragraph 4 of the impugned order which is as follows:- I find that there is a not even a single case which could
 pin-point any making against these assesses which could
 be taken as a revenue nexus. I make it clear that the
 CBDT's circular dated 10.03.2003 has itself made it clear
 that mere search statements in the nature of admission in
 absence of supportive material do not carry weight. I
 notice that this tribunal's coordinate bench's decision in ITA No. 2474/Kol/2018 in Mahavir Jhanwar Vs. ITO decided on 01.02.2019 has taken into consideration
 identical facts and circumstances as well as latest
 developments on legal side whilst deleting the similar
 bogus LTCG addition. 38. The learned tribunal proceeds to extracts the decision of a coordinate

 Bench of the tribunal in Mahavir Jhanwar Versus Income Tax Officer in Page 79 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH ITA No. 2474/Kol/2018 dated 01.02.2019 and the conclusion of the tribunal in paragraph 5 and 6 are as follows:- Order pronounced in open court on 26/06/2019 39. The correctness of the above decision is called in question in these

 appeals. As noted by us the tribunal has not ventured to examine the

 factual position of 89 other cases which were also allowed by the tribunal by

 the common order. It is the submission for the learned standing counsel for

 the department that the facts which are necessary to take a decision in the

 assessees case has been elaborately dealt with by the CIT (A) which was Page 80 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

completely ignored by the learned Tribunal and the learned tribunal held

that the assessee had placed on record contract notes, share certificates,

shown to have traded through registered brokers, payment effected through

banking channels and D-Mat statements and that the revenue's only the

case is that there is a very strong circumstantial evidence against the

assessee and there is not a single case which could pin-point against the

assessee and therefore was of the view that the decision in Mahavir

Jhanwar could be applied to the assessees case as well. We note that in the

decision in Mahavir Jhanwar four decisions of the High Court have been

referred to, two of which are of this Court namely Carbo Industrial

Holdings Limited and Emarald Commercial Limited, the other two

decisions are of the Bombay High Court in Shri Mukesh Ratilal Marolia and

that of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Prempal Garg. Thus, the

predominant issue which falls for consideration is to ascertain whether the

claim of LTCG would be considered as genuine. The assessee pleads

absolute innocence, a regular trader in shares and stocks, payments

effected and received through banking channels, her stock broker is a

reputed person, the financial advisor is a reputed organization, the

regulatory authorities namely SEBI or The Stock Exchange have not taken

any action against the trading of the shares of the said company, the

materials which appear to be the basis for the assessment were not

furnished to the assessee, the person who is stated to have given statements

were no made available for cross examination in spite of specific request and

therefore, the theory of circumstantial evidence or the theory of human

probabilities cannot be applied to the assessees case. Page 81 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH 40. Before we examine the contentions, we are tempted to point out that

 the exercise done by the tribunal was a bit perfunctory. There is absolutely

 no discussion of the factual position in any of the 89 appeals, the exception

 is in paragraph 4 with regard to the certain facts of the assessees case

 (Swati Bajaj). We are not very appreciative of the manner in which the

 bunch of appeals have been disposed of. The cardinal principles which

 courts and tribunal have followed consistently is that each assessment year

 is an individual unit and unless and until it is shown that there are

 distinguishing feature in a particular assessment year, the decision taken

 for the earlier years are to be followed to ensure consistency. While doing so

 the Courts/ Tribunals are required to examine the facts and render a

 finding as to why the decision in the earlier assessment years should be

 adopted or not. 41. Be that as it may, the appeals having travelled thus far and

 elaborates submissions having been made before us, we shall deal with the

 issues and proceed to render a decision. 42. We have heard, Mr. Vipul Kundalia, Learned Senior Standing

 Counsels assisted by Mr. Samarjit Roychowdhury, Mr. Aryak Dutta Mr.

 Tilak Mitra, Mr. Om Narayan Rai, Mr. Prithu Dhudhoria. Mr. Amit Sharma

 and Mr. Soumen Bhattacharya for the appellants/revenue, and Mr. S.M.

 Surana, Senior Advocate, assisted by Mr. Sourav Bagaria, Mr. Avra

 Mazumdar, Mr. Subash Agarwal, Mr. Soumya Kejriwal, Mr. Pratyush

 Jhunjhunwala, Mr. Varun Kedia, Mr. Brijesh Kumar Singh, Mr. G.S. Gupta,

 Mr. Bhaskar Sen Gupta, Mr. Binayak Gupta, Sk. Md. Bilwal Hossain, Mr. K.

 Roy, and Mr. Arif Ali for the respondent/assessee. Page 82 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH 43. From the assessment order passed in the case of the assessee

 Smt. Swati Bajaj, we find that the genesis of the issue commenced from an

 investigation report submitted by the Directorate of Income Tax,

 Investigation, Kolkata (DIT). The investigation report has been prepared by

 the Deputy Director of Income Tax, Investigation Unit -II and III, Kolkata.

 Before we examine the report, we shall deal with the objection raised by Mr.

 Surana, learned senior advocate as regards the effect of such report,

 whether at all it is a "report" and can the assessing officer or the CIT (A) can

 proceed on the basis of such "report". The above submission is sought to be

 buttressed by placing reliance on the decision in Sesa Sterlite and Odeon

 Builders. 44. In Sesa Sterilite, all the assessees were traders and exporters of iron

 ore and some of them were also miners and processors of the ore.

 Allegations of large-scale illegal mining and trading necessitated the

 Government of India to appoint a Commission of Inquiry under Section 3 of

 the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952. The Commission so appointed by the

 Union of India submitted three reports wherein finding was rendered with

 regard to the violation of various statutes and other infirmities and that

 there were illegal exports particularly by means of under-invoicing on the

 part of the mining lessees and exporters. In the said case this report was the

 basis for the Income Tax Officer to issue notice under Section 148 of the Act

 proposing to re-open the assessments under Section 147 of the Act for the

 assessment year 2008-2009.The reason for re-opening were: 45. In support of the first reason, the third report of the Commission of

 Inquiry was relied on. The assessee challenged the re-opening as being bad

 in law as it was solely on the basis of the report of the Commission of

 Inquiry and such report itself was vitiated on account of serious violation of

 principles of natural justice by reason of breach of Section 8B and 8C of the

 Commission of Inquiry Act. That the lessees including the assessee therein

 were not given any opportunity to explain the material used by the

 Commission of Inquiry in its report. Further it was contended that the

 report of the Commission is in the nature of expression of an opinion by the

 Commission and has no efficacy either as a legal findings or admissible

 evidence. The Division Bench of the Bombay High Court while testing the

 correctness of the said submissions observed that in so far as the

 allegations of under-invoicing by the exporters is concerned, it is nothing

 but a matter of expression of opinion by the Commission of Inquiry. Further

 the Court noted that the report of the Commission of Inquiry was a subject

 matter of challenge in a writ petition by the mining lessees and exporters

 including the assessee Sesa Sterlite. The Court further held that the report

 of the Commission neither constitutes a binding judgment nor a definitive

 pronouncement. Further by referring to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Page 84 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 Court in State of Karnataka Versus Union of India 87, it was held that

 the report submitted by the Commission of Inquiry may or may not be

 accepted by the authority appointing the Commission of Inquiry. In the

 background of these findings, the Court held that the re-opening of the

 assessment could not have been done exclusively based on the report of the

 Commission of Inquiry. 46. Mr. Surana, learned senior counsel relied on the decision of the

 Allahabad High Court in Smt. Kavita Gupta and submitted that the report

 of the Deputy Director of Income Tax, Investigation (DDIT) cannot be the

 basis of the assessment more so when the report was not furnished to the

 assessee, there is no finding as against the asessee in the report which was

 produced for the first time before this Court during the course of the

 arguments of these appeals. It is submitted in Smt. Kavita Gupta, it was

 held that a mere report of the DDIT suggesting that some of the gifts

 received by the assessee therein may be non-genuine and that to when not

 confronted to the assessee was not sufficient to conclude that the gifts

 obtained by the assessee were not genuine. It was further argued that the

 report of the DDIT is a third-party information which has not been

 independently subjected to further verification by the assessing officer who

 has not provided the copy of the statements to the appellants. Thus, the

 appellant thereby denying opportunity of cross examination to the assessee

 therein who had in the said case discharged the initial burden of

 substantiating the purchases through various documents is in violation of 87 (1977) 4 SCC 608 Page 85 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 principle of natural justice. In support of such contention, reliance was

 placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Odeon Builders. 47. We are required to test the correctness of the objection raised by Mr.

 Surana the learned senior counsel with the aid of the aforementioned three

 decisions. The decision in Sesa Sterilite as noted, arises out of a report

 submitted by the Commission of Inquiry constituted by the Union of India to

 enquire into the allegations of illegal mining and trading of ore in various

 states including the state of Goa. The court after noting the provisions of the Commission of Inquiry Act more particularly as to the effect of such report

 on the authority appointing the Commission of Inquiry and also on the

 ground that the report was vitiated on account of breach of Sections 8B and 8C of the Commission of Inquiry Act, has rendered a finding in favour of the

 assessee therein. That apart, the Court also found that the very report of the

 Commission of Inquiry was subject matter of challenge in a writ petition

 before the Bombay High Court by the mining lessees and exporters.

 Therefore, the Court taking note of the facts and also the decision in State

 of Karnataka which has held that the report of the Commission of Inquiry

 may or may not be binding on the authority appointing the Commission,

 held that the re-opening of the assessments under Section 147 of the Act

 could not have been solely based upon such report. Firstly, we need to note

 that the report of the DDIT is by an authority of the investigation wing of the

 Income Tax department. Therefore, at the threshold it cannot be treated to

 be a third-party report. That apart the effect of a report submitted in terms

 of the provisions of the Commission of Inquiry Act is quite different and

 distinct from a report submitted in-house by the Income Tax department. Page 86 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

Therefore, in our view the decision in Sesa Sterlite is distinguishable. In so

far as the decision in Kavita Gupta the challenge was whether the

assumption of jurisdiction by the Commissioner of Income Tax under Section 263 of the Act was justified in the eye of law. In the said case, the

Court noted the legal position that when an inquiry is launched under Section 143(3) of the Act, the findings will not depend only upon the

presumption, the onus of proof could not be cast entirely upon the revenue

and such onus would shift on the revenue only if the assessee produced

some material to show that what she states may be correct. On facts the

Court, in the said case, found that the onus had shifted to the revenue as

the assessment was completed by the assessing officer after inquiry and in

such factual position, the Court held that a mere report of the Deputy

Director (Intelligence) suggesting that some of the gifts obtained by the

assessee therein were not genuine and such report having been not

confronted to the asessee therein was not sufficient to conclude the gifts

were not genuine. The said decision is distinguishable for several reasons.

Firstly, the Court considered as to whether the assumption of jurisdiction

under Section 263 of the Act by the CIT (A) was justified and on facts the

Court was satisfied that when the scrutiny assessment was completed

under Section 143(3) the assessing officer had conducted a proper inquiry.

Therefore, the Court found that there was no cause for invoking power

under Section 263 of the Act by merely relying upon the report of the

Deputy Director (Investigation) which was not furnished to the assessee

therein. These distinguishing factors will clearly show that the decision is

inapplicable to the facts and circumstances of the cases on hand. In Odeon Page 87 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 Builders the appeal filed by the revenue was dismissed by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court as no substantial questions of law arise from the order

 passed by the tribunal. The CIT (A) and the learned Tribunal concurrently

 held in favour of the assessee therein on facts holding that the information

 gathered by the investigation wing of the department which was not

 independently subjected to further verification could not have been relied

 upon by the assessing officer more particularly that the department did not

 furnish the report to the assessee therein and the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 was satisfied that the assessee therein had prima facie discharged the initial

 burden of substantiating the purchases through various documents. In our

 humble view the decision is wholly distinguishable on facts. 48. In the background of the aforementioned discussions, we have no

 hesitation to hold that the plea raised on behalf of the assesses that the

 report should be discarded cannot be accepted. The report has to be read as

 a whole along with the annexures/chapters. We shall go into the finer

 details of the report, the effect of such report in the later part of this

 judgment. 49. An investigation is commenced when allegations crops up regarding

 tax evasion. The Income Tax department was nowhere in the picture when

 the assessees effected purchase of the shares and subsequently sold the

 shares well after the period of 12 months. It is only when the assessees,

 substantially in large numbers, made fanciful claims of LTCG, time had

 come to examine its genuinity of such claims. While on this issue, it would

 be relevant to take note of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 Ram Jethmalani and Others. The matter before the Hon'ble Supreme Page 88 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 Court was in respect to transfer of monies and accumulation of monies

 which were unaccounted for by many individuals and legal entities in the

 country in foreign banks. The degree of control on such transactions by the

 states was explained by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the following terms: 50. The Hon'ble Supreme Court proceeded to frame two issues the first

 of which was the appointment of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) and the Page 89 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

justification for appointing a Special Investigation Team was made by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the following terms: disciplinary group and committee would now enable the
 conducting of an efficient and a systematic investigation into
 the matters concerning allegations against Hassan Ali Khan
 and the Tapurias; and further that such a committee would
 also enable the taking of appropriate steps to bring back the
 monies stashed in foreign banks, for which purposes a need
 may arise to register further cases. The Union of India also
 claims that the formation of such a committee indicates the
 seriousness with which it is viewing the entire matter. Page 90 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH 51. The above decision would render support to cause an investigation by

 the Income Tax department when matters come to their notice showing

 abnormally high and inflated claims of LTCG especially when the share

 market in the country during the relevant time was not progressive.

 Therefore, no fault can be attributed to the Income Tax department for

 causing an investigation and any finding rendered pursuant to such

 investigation could very well be a material to commence further proceedings

 under the Act against the assessees who fall within the ring of suspicion.

 Mr. Surana, learned Senior Counsel would contend that unlike in the cases

 relied upon by him, there is nothing to show that the Government of India or

 the CBDT had directed conduct of an investigation by the DDIT who is the

 lowest in the rung of officers in the investigation wing of the Income Tax

 department. To examine, this we had perused the preamble portion of the

 report. The report has been prepared by the DDIT and it has been forwarded

 to the DGIT (Investigation) in all the states in the country as well as the

 Director General of International Tax, Mumbai. The report prepared by the

 DDIT is on behalf of the Directorate of Investigation, Kolkata, and this is

 evident from the report dated 27.04.2015. Therefore, to discredit the report

 as if to be initiated by the DDIT on his own accord is in an incorrect

 submission. The learned senior counsel referred to the penultimate

 paragraph of the report and submitted that the officer who prepared the

 report himself mentions it to be a "write" up and therefore it is not a "report"

 in the strict sense. We are unable to agree with the said submission as

 substance over form has to be looked into and preferred. Therefore, to pick

 up the words "write up" and to brand the report to be a personal opinion of Page 91 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 the DDIT is not tenable. Therefore, on the grounds raised by the learned

 senior counsel, we are not persuaded to hold that the report has to be

 discarded in its entirety and accordingly this objection raised on behalf of

 the assessee is decided against them. 52. Having steered clear of the objection raised regarding the report, we

 shall briefly deal with the contents of the report which states that the DIT,

 Kolkata had under taken the accommodation entries LTCG investigation on

 a much larger scale than earlier as a result they were able to identify a very

 large number of beneficiaries who have together taken a huge amount of

 bogus entries of LTCG and 64,811 beneficiaries were identified to be

 involved in the bogus claims of LTCG which was estimated above Rs. 38,000

 crores. It is stated that in order to cast the net wide the department adopted

 a different approach of investigation which acquired a character of a project.

 The report states that illegal business of bogus LTCG involves three different

 individuals, the promoter of "penny stocks" companies also known as

 syndicate member, the share brokers and the entries operators who

 purchases the shares through paper companies by taking cash and many at

 times the three categories of individuals perform overlapping roles and at

 times, a single individual may perform all the three functions. The report

 further states in the investigations done earlier with regard to the bogus

 LTCG, the approach was to target the individuals and through him identify

 the penny stock and beneficiary and this method had yielded results on a

 limited scale emanating only from individual/individuals targeted.

 Therefore, keeping in mind, the rampant nature and exponential growth of

 the illegal business in the recent times and to cast the net wide the Page 92 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

department reversed the methodology of investigation. In that process, it is

stated, that they first identified the "penny stocks" and then started

targeting the individuals who dealt in them. The report states that by

adopting such method they were able to virtually cover almost all Kolkata

based operators in one investigation. Further the report states that it is an

on-going process which acquires the character of a project that will continue

for quite some time unlike usual investigation which aims at the individual

involved. The report has identified 84 penny stocks listed with the BSE

which have been used for generating bogus LTCG which includes 18 scripts

on which the DIT (Investigation-I) Delhi had conducted investigation and the

results were circulated. The report mentions 22 entities who are brokers

who were covered in the investigation involved in the purchase/sale and

price rigging of the penny stocks of the 84 companies. The report states that

it is pertinent to note that the list includes some of the big names like

Anand Ratithi, Religare and SMC. The report further states that the figure of

the total transaction of the brokers is only above Rs. 15,970 crores as

against the total trade in the script which is more than Rs. 38,000 crores.

The reason being that there are other brokers from other cities including

some leading names who have traded in these scripts but they could not be

covered in the investigation. Further the report states that the department

was able to establish full cash trail starting from cash deposit account to the

accounts of the beneficiary for nearly a sum of more than Rs. 1575 crores

and the broker wise split up was provided in a tabular form. The report

explains the modus operandi in the following terms:- Page 93 of 150 53. Thereafter the report speaks of the types of penny stock companies,

 the entities involved in the transaction, the transaction which involves three

 legs, the merger method, and a pictorial representation as to how the share

 prices raised to astronomical level and thereafter there is a downward trend

 which according to the department is used by the operators for booking

 bogus LTCL. The report further states that list of beneficiaries DGIT (INB)

 wise along with the statements have been forwarded for dissemination to the

 assessing officers through the Chief Commissioner of Income Tax concerned.

 The information was provided in a soft form recorded in a DVD. There were

 five folders namely:- (i) Investment report, (ii) LTCG data base, (iii) LTCG

 summary, (iv) LTCG trade ledger, (v) STCL summary, (vi) STCL trade ledger

 and (vii) SEBI orders 54. Further the report states that the data of DGIT(International Tax)

 shows that large number of NRIs and well-known FIIs are buying and selling Page 94 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

these penny stocks and this appears to be a case where the black money

stashed a broad is coming back to India (purchase) or money being sent out

of the country (sale). The report points out that while only Rs. 27.57 crores

have been gone out of the country, an amount of above Rs. 114.97 crores

has come in. The report has been signed by the Principal Director of Income

Tax (Investigation), Kolkata. The report has been communicated to the DGIT

(Investigation) of all the states. Thus, we find that the methodology of the

investigation by the department is quite different from the normal method of

investigation which commences from the investor or the assessee as the

case may be. The report states that on account of huge sums of money being

claimed as LTCG/LTCL, a different approach/methodology was adopted by

the department, by commencing the investigation not from the individuals

who traded with the penny stocks but investigation has started targeting the

individuals who dealt with those penny stocks. This concept can be

mentioned to be one of "working backwards". This is one of the modes of

causing an investigation, considering its magnitude. The approach of the

department cannot therefore be faulted. Therefore, a different approach is

required to be taken on the effect and efficacy of the report according to the

department is in the nature of a project. The Court sit in judgment over the

methodology adopted by the department as no taxpayer is entitled to any

benefit which shall not accrue to him under the provisions of the Act. If any

dubious methodology has been adopted for the purpose of availing certain

benefits not admissible under law, the same will not come within the ambit

of tax planning but shall be a case of tax avoidance by adopting illegal

methods. Therefore, we are of the view that the department was justified in Page 95 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 proceeding to take up the cases, not only within the jurisdiction of the state

 of West Bengal but other states as well. Thus, the moot question would be if

 the report is the starting point for considering as to how the claim of

 LTCG/LTCL by the respective assessees were genuine, we should consider

 as to whether the assessing officers have committed any error of law, error

 of jurisdiction or error on facts, leading to the assessments being held to be

 not sustainable. 55. The first argument on behalf of the assessee is that the copy of the

 investigation report was not furnished to them despite specific written

 request made on behalf of the assesses to furnish the copy of the report, the

 statements recorded and provide those persons from whom statements were

 recorded to be cross examined on behalf of the assessee. There is no dispute

 to the fact that the copy of the statement said to have been recorded during

 the course of investigation has not been furnished to the assessees and the

 request made by some of them for cross examining of those persons was not

 considered. The question would be as to whether the non-compliance of the

 above would render the assessments bad in law. The argument of the

 revenue is that the assessments cannot be held to be illegal merely on the

 grounds that the copy of the report was not furnished as the respective

 assessing officers have clearly mentioned as to the nature of investigation

 done by the department and as the report itself states that the investigation

 commenced not from the assessees end but the individuals who dealt with

 these penny stocks who were targeted. It is equally true invariably in all

 cases, the statement of the stock brokers, the entry operators or the

 Directors of the various penny stock companies does not directly implicate Page 96 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 the assessee. If such being the situation, the assessee cannot be heard to

 say that the copy of the entire report should have been furnished to him, the

 person from whom the statements were recorded should have been

 produced for cross examination as admittedly there is nothing to implicate

 the assessee Smt. Swati Bajaj of insider trading or rigging of share prices.

 But the allegation against the assessee is that the claim for LTCG/LTCL is

 bogus. As pointed out by Mr. Rai, learned senior standing counsel, the

 investigation report is general in nature not assessee specific. Therefore, we

 are required to see as to whether non-furnishing of the report which

 according to the revenue is available in the public domain would vitiate the

 proceedings on the ground that the assessee was put to prejudice. 56. In State Bank of Patiala and Others Versus S.K. Sharma, the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court pointed out that violation of any and every

 procedural provision cannot be said to automatically vitiate the domestic

 enquiry held against the delinquent employee or the order passed by the

 disciplinary authority except in cases falling under no notice, no opportunity

 and no hearing categories. Further it was held that if no prejudice is

 established to have resulted from such violation of procedural provisions no

 interference is called for, against the ultimate orders. The test laid down was

 whether the person has received a fair hearing considering all things as the

 ultimate test is always the test of prejudice or the test of fair hearing as.

 Further the Hon'ble Supreme Court pointed out a distinction between a case

 of no opportunity and a case of no adequate opportunity and while

 examining the latter case, it was held that the violation has to be examined

 from the stand point of prejudice, in other words the Court or the tribunal Page 97 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 has to see whether in the totality of the circumstances, the delinquent

 officer/employee did or did not have a fair hearing and the orders to be

 made shall depend upon the answers to the said query. Further it was held

 that there may be a situation where interest of the state or public interest

 may call for curtailing of rule of audi alteram partem and in such a situation

 the Court may have to balance public/state interest with the requirements

 of natural justice and arrive at an appropriate decision. 57. In a very recent decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in M.J.

 James after referring to a catena of decisions on the point the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court pointed out that natural justice is a flexible tool in the

 hands of the judiciary to reach out in fit cases to remedy injustice. The

 breach of the audi alteram partem rule cannot by itself, without more lead to

 the conclusion that prejudice is thereby caused. Where procedural and /or

 substantive provisions of law embodied the principles of natural justice,

 their infraction per-se does not lead to invalidity of the order passed. The

 prejudice must be caused to the litigant, except in the case of a mandatory

 provision of law which is conceived not only in individual interest but also in

 public interest. Further by referring to the decision in State of Uttar

 Pradesh Versus Sudhir Kumar Singh 88, it was held that the "prejudice"

 exception must be more than a mere apprehension or even a reasonable

 suspicion of a litigant, it should exist as a matter of fact or to be cast upon a

 definite inference of likelihood of prejudice flowing from the non-observance

 of natural justice. 88 (2020) SCC Online SC 847 Page 98 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH 58. Therefore, the assessees have to specifically point out as to how they

 were prejudiced on account of non-furnishing of the investigation report in

 its entirety, failure to produce the persons from whom the statements were

 recorded for being cross examined would cause prejudice to the assessee as

 nowhere in the report the names of the assessees feature. The investigation

 report states that the investigation has not commenced from the individuals

 but it has commenced who had dealt with the penny stocks, concept of

 working backwards. This is a very significant factor to be remembered.

 Therefore, there has been absolute anonymity of the assessee in the process

 of investigation. The endeavour of the department is to examine the "modus

 operandi" adopted and in that process now seek to identify the assessees

 who have benefited on account of such "modus operandi". Therefore,

 considering the factual scenario no prejudice has been established to the

 assessee by not furnishing the investigation report in its entirety nor making

 the persons available for cross examination as admitted by the department

 in substantial number of cases the assessees have not been specifically

 indicted by those persons from whom statements have been recorded. 59. We are conscious of the fact that there may be exceptions however

 nothing has been brought before us to show that there was an exception in

 any of these appeals heard by us. In a few cases the assessee has been

 made known of the statement of the Director of the penny stock company or

 the stock broker, entry operator despite which those assessees could not

 make any headway. While on this issue, we need to consider as to whether

 and under what circumstances the right of cross examination can be

 demanded as a vested right. In Kishanlal Agarwalla, the Hon'ble Division Page 99 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 Bench of this Court pointed out that no natural justice requires that there

 should be a kind of formal cross examination as it is a procedural justice,

 governed by the rules and regulations. Further it was held that so long as

 the party charged has a fair and reasonable opportunity would receive,

 comment and criticize the evidence, statements or records on which the

 charges is being against him, the demand and tests of natural justice are

 satisfied. 60. In Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad 89 the Hon'ble Supreme Court held

 that the right of hearing cannot include the right of cross examination and

 the right must depend upon the circumstances of each case and must also

 depend on the statute under which the allegations are being enquired into. 61. Having noted the above legal position, it goes without saying there is

 no vested right for the assessee to cross examine the persons who have not

 deposed anything against the assessee. The investigation report proceeds on

 a different perspective commencing from a different point and this has led to

 the enquiry being conducted by the assessing officer calling upon the

 assessee to prove the genuineness of the claim of LTCG. 62. In the light of the above conclusion we hold that the decision in

 Gorkha Security Services does not lend any support to the case of the

 assessees and is distinguishable. 63. The copy of the recommendations of SIT on black money as contained

 in the third SIT report as published by the Press Information Bureau,

 Government of India, Ministry of Finance, dated 24.07.2015 was placed 89 AIR (1967) SC 122 Page 100 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

before us with reference to the misuse of exemption on LTCG for money

laundering and the recommendations are as hereunder: Enforcement Directorate should then be informed to take
 action under Prevention of Money Laundering Act for the
 predicate offences. 64. From the above it is seen that there is a discussion about the

 "modus operandi" adopted and the SIT opines that there is an urgent need

 for having an effective, preventive and punitive action in such matters to

 prevent recurrence of such instances. This is a relevant aspect to be borne

 in mind. 65. Thus, the report submitted by the investigation department cannot

 be thrown out on the grounds urged on behalf of the assessees. The

 assesses have not been shown to be prejudiced on account of non-

 furnishing of the investigation report or non-production of the persons for

 cross examination as the assessee has not specifically indicated as to how

 he was prejudiced, coupled with the fact as admitted by the revenue, the

 statements do not indict the assessee. That apart, we have noted that the

 investigation has commenced targeting the individuals who dealt with the

 penny stocks and after examining the modus seeing the cash trail the report

 has been submitted recommending the same to be placed before the DGIT

 (investigation) of all the states of the country. It is thereafter the concerned Page 102 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

assessing officers have been informed to consider as to the bonafideness and

genuineness of the claims of LTCG/LTCL of the respective assessees qua the

findings which emanated during the investigation conducted on the

individuals who dealt with the penny stocks. Therefore, the assessments

have commenced by the assessing officers calling upon the assessee to

explain the genuineness of the claim of LTCG/ LTCL made by them. In all

the assessment orders, substantial portion of the investigation report has

been noted in full. A careful reading of the some would show that the

assessee has not been named in the report. If such be the case, unless and

until the assessee shows and proves that she/he was prejudiced on account

of such report / statement mere mentioning that non-furnishing of the

report or non-availability of the person for cross examination cannot vitiate

the proceedings. The assessees have miserably failed to prove the test of

prejudice or that the test of fair hearing has not been satisfied in their

individual cases. In all the cases, the assessees have been issued notices

under Sections 143(2) and 142(1) of the Act they have been directed to

furnish the documents, the assessee have complied with the directions,

appeared before the assessing officer and in many cases represented by

Advocates/Chartered Accountants, elaborate legal submissions have been

made both oral and in writing and thereafter the assessments have been

completed. Nothing prevented the assessee from mentioning that unless and

until the report is furnished and the statements are provided, they would

not in a position to take part in the inquiry which is being conducted by the

assessing officer in scrutiny assessment under Section 143(3) of the Act. The

assessee were conscious of the fact that they have not been named in the Page 103 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 report, therefore made a vague and bold statement that the non-furnishing

 of report would vitiate the proceedings. Therefore, merely by mentioning that

 statements have not been furnished can in no manner advance the case of

 the assessee. If the report was available in the public domain as has been

 downloaded and produced before us by the learned standing counsel for the

 revenue, nothing prevented the assesses who are ably defended by

 Chartered Accountants and Advocates to download such reports and

 examine the same and thereafter put up their defence. Therefore, the based

 on such general statements of violation of principles of natural justice the

 assessees have not made out any case. 66. While on this issue, it is important to take note of the decision in T.

 Takano. In the said case, the SEBI took a stand that the investigation

 report under Regulation 9 of the SEBI Regulations could also include

 sensitive information about the business affairs of various entities and

 persons concerned and if disclosed it would affect their privacy and the

 competitive position of other entities. While considering the correctness of

 the submissions made on behalf of the SEBI, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 held that if the disclosure of the report would affect third party rights the

 onus then shifts to the appellant to prove that the information is necessary

 to defend the case appropriately. On facts it was found that the appellant

 therein did not sufficiently discharge his burden by proving that the non-

 disclosure of the information would affect his ability to defend himself. 67. In the cases on hand, undoubtedly the report contains information

 about various penny stocks companies about the directors of the companies

 and also the stock brokers, entry operators and others who have been Page 104 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 named in the report. It is an admitted case that the names of the assessees

 do not figure in the report. Therefore, non-furnishing of the report has in no

 manner prejudiced the rights of the assessees to discharge the onus cast

 upon them in terms of Section 68 of the Act. 68. It is equally not in dispute that whatever information which was

 required to be made known to the assessee has been informed to the

 assessee by the assessing officer by issuance of a notice to each of the

 assesses to which they have responded by submitting their replies.

 Therefore, in the absence of any prejudice caused to the assessee on

 account of non-furnishing of the entire report, the assessees cannot be a

 heard to say that there has been violation of principles of natural justice and

 their right to defend themselves was in any manner affected. At this

 juncture, it would be of much relevance to refer to the decision in K. R.

 Ajmera. The question of law which arose for consideration before the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court was as to what is the degree of proof required to

 hold brokers/sub-brokers liable for fraudulent/manipulative practices

 under the SEBI Regulations and for violating the code of conduct of the

 SEBI (Stocks brokers and Sub-brokers) Regulations. It was pointed out that

 the code of conduct for stock brokers lays down that they shall maintain

 high standard of integrity, promptitude and fairness in the conduct of all

 investment business and shall act with due skill and care and diligence in

 the conduct of all investment business. The Code also enumerates different

 shades of duties of stock brokers towards the investor and those duties

 pertain to high standard of integrity that the stock broker is required to

 maintain in the conduct of his business. It was further pointed out that it is Page 105 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

a fundamental principle of law that prove of an allegation levelled against a

person may be in the form of direct substantive evidence or as in many

cases such proof may have to be inferred by a logical process of reasoning

from the totality of the attending facts and circumstances surrounding the

allegations/ charges made and levelled. It was further held that direct

evidence is a more certain basis to come to a conclusion yet in the absence

thereof the courts cannot be helpless. It was further pointed out that it is

the judicial duty to take note of the immediate and proximate facts and

circumstances surrounding the events on which the charges/allegations are

founded and to reach what would appear to the Court to be a reasonable

conclusion therefrom. The test would always be that what inferential

process that a reasonable/prudent man would adopt to arrive at a

conclusion. The above tests laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court were

applied to the facts of the case in K.R. Ajmera and it was noted that the

scrips in which trading had been done wherefore illiquid scrips meaning

thereby that such scrips though listed in the BSE were not a matter of every

day buy and sell transactions. Further it was held that trading in such

illiquid scrips is not impermissible yet voluminous trading over a period of

time in such scrips is a fact that should attract the attention of a vigilant

trader engaged in such trades. It was further pointed out that though

proximity of time between the buy and sell orders may not be conclusive in

an isolated case such an event in a situation where there is a huge volume

and trading can reasonable point to some kind of a fraudulent/manipulative

exercise with prior meeting of minds. Such meeting of minds so as to attract

the liability of the brokers / sub-broker and may be between the Page 106 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 brokers/sub-broker and the client or it could be between two brokers/sub-

 brokers engaged in the buy and sell transactions. Further it was pointed out

 that when over a period of time such transactions have been made between

 the same set of brokers or a group of brokers a conclusion can be a

 reasonable reached that there is a concerted effort on the part of the brokers

 concerned to indulge in synchronized trade the consequences of which is

 large volumes of fictitious trading resulting in unnatural rise in hiking the

 price/value of the scrips. In the said case, it was argued that on a screen-

 based trading the identity of the second party to be a client or the broker is

 not known to the first party/client or broker. This argument was rejected as

 being irrelevant. It was pointed out that the screen-based identity system

 keeps the identity of the parties anonymous and it will be too naïve to rests

 the final conclusions on said basis which overlooks a meeting of minds

 elsewhere. Further it was held that direct proof of such meeting of mind

 elsewhere would rarely be forth coming and therefore the test is one of the

 preponderance of probabilities so far as the adjudication of a civil liability

 arising out of violation of the Act or to the Regulations. Further it was held

 that the conclusion has to be gathered from various circumstances like that

 volume of trade effected; the period of persistence in trading in particular

 scrips; the particulars of the buy and sell orders, namely, the volume

 thereof; the proximity of time between the two and such other relevant

 factors. 69. Thus, the legal principle which can be culled out from the above

 decision is that to prove the allegations, against the assessee, can be inferred

 by a logical process of reasoning from the totality of the attending facts and Page 107 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 circumstances surrounding the allegations/charges made and levelled and

 when direct evidence is not available, it is the duty of the Court to take note

 of the immediate and proximate facts and circumstances surrounding the

 events on which the charges/allegations are founded so as to reach a

 reasonable conclusion and the test would be what inferential process that a

 reasonable/prudent man would apply to arrive at a conclusion. Further

 proximity and time and prior meeting of minds is also a very important factor

 especially when the income tax department has been able to point out that

 there has been a unnatural rise in the price of the scrips of very little known

 companies. Furthermore, in all the cases, there were minimum of two brokers

 who have been involved in the transaction. It would be very difficult to gather

 direct proof of the meeting of minds of those brokers or sub-brokers or

 middlemen or entry operators and therefore, the test to be applied is the test

 of preponderance of probabilities to ascertain as to whether there has been

 violation of the provisions of the Income Tax Act . In such a circumstance, the

 conclusion has to be gathered from various circumstances like the volume

 from trade, period of persistence in trading in the particular scrips,

 particulars of buy and sell orders and the volume thereof and proximity of

 time between the two which are relevant factors. Therefore, in our considered

 view the methodology adopted by the department cannot be faulted. 70. It was argued by Mr. Bagaria that in the decision in Balram Garg, the

 decision in K.R. Ajmera has been overruled. To examine the correctness of

 the said submission, we have carefully gone through the findings rendered by

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in paragraph 47 of the judgment in Balram Garg

 which reads as follows: Page 108 of 150 71. On a careful reading of the above paragraph will show that the

 argument by placing reliance on the case of K.R. Ajmera to show that

 presumption can be drawn on the basis of immediate and relevant facts was

 contrary to the law already settled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 Chintalapati S. Raju. Therefore, it would be incorrect to submit that the

 decision in K.R. Ajmera has been overruled. This position becomes clearer

 as the decision in K.R. Ajmera was referred to in Chintalapati S. Raju as

 could be seen in paragraph 30 of the said judgment. Therefore, we hold that

 the law laid down in K.R. Ajmera continues to be good law. Page 109 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH 72. In the light of the above discussion, the only conclusion that can be

 arrived at is that the opinion can be formed and the decision can be taken

 by taking note of the surrounding circumstances which had been elaborated

 upon in K.R. Ajmera. 73. It is very rare and difficult to get direct information or evidence with

 regard to the prior meeting of minds of the persons involved in the

 manipulative activities of price rigging and insider trading. We can draw a

 parallel in cases of adulteration of food stuff, more than often action is

 initiated under the relevant Act after the adulteration takes place, the users

 of adulterated products get affected etc. Therefore, a holistic approach is

 required to be made and the test of preponderance of probabilities have to

 be applied and while doing so, we cannot loose sight of the fact that the

 shares of very little known companies with in-significant business had a

 steep rise in the share prices within the period of little over a year. The

 Income Tax department was not privy to such peculiar trading activities as

 they appear to have been done through the various stock exchanges and it

 is only when the assessees made claim for a LTCG/STCL, the investigation

 commenced. As pointed out the investigation did not commence from the

 assessee but had commenced from the companies and the persons who

 were involved in the trading of the shares of these companies which are all

 classified as penny stocks companies. Therefore, the argument of the

 assessee that the copy of the investigation report has not been furnished,

 the persons from whom statements have been recorded have not been

 produced for cross examination are all contention which has to necessarily

 fail for several reasons which we have set out in the proceedings Page 110 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

paragraphs. To reiterate, the assessee we not named in the report and when

the assessee makes the claim for exemption the onus of proof is on the

assessee to prove the genuinity. Unfortunately, the assessees have been

harping upon the transactions done by them and by relying upon the

documents in their hands to contend that the transactions done were

genuine. Unfortunately, the test of genuinity needs to be established

otherwise, the assessees are lawfully bound to prove the huge LTCG claims

to be genuine. In other words if there is information and data available of

unreasonable rise in the price of the shares of these penny stock companies

over a short period of time of little more than one year, the genuinity of such

steep rise in the prices of shares needs to be established and the onus is on

the assessee to do so as mandated in Section 68 of the Act. Thus, the

assessees cannot be permitted to contend that the assessments were based

on surmises and conjectures or presumptions or assumptions. The assessee

does not and cannot dispute the fact that the shares of the companies which

they have dealt with were insignificant in value prior to their trading. If such

is the situation, it is the assessee who has to establish that the price rise

was genuine and consequently they are entitled to claim LTCG on their

transaction. Until and unless the initial burden cast upon the assessee is

discharged, the onus does not shift to the revenue to prove otherwise. It is

incorrect to argue that the assessees have been called upon to prove the

negative in fact, it is the assessees duty to establish that the rise of the price

of shares within a short period of time was a genuine move that those penny

stocks companies had credit worthiness and coupled with genuinity and

identity. The assesses cannot be heard to say that their claim has to be Page 111 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

examined only based upon the documents produced by them namely bank

details, the purchase/sell documents, the details of the D-Mat Account etc.

The assesses have lost sight of an important fact that when a claim is made

for LTCG or STCL, the onus is on the assessee to prove that credit

worthiness of the companies whose shares the assessee has dealt with, the

genuineness of the price rise which is undoubtedly alarming that to within a

short span of time. The revenue had placed heavy reliance on the decision in

McDowell to show that the claim of the assessee is not case of tax planning

to be one of the tax avoidance by indulging in dubious methods. Mr. Bagaria

had argued the rule in McDowell was considered in Azadi Bachao

Andolan and Vodafone International and it is in the manner explained in

these decisions the rule in McDowell needs to be applied. From paragraph

138 onwards the Hon'ble Supreme Court considered in detail as to why

McDowell and what it says and what it does not say. The argument of Mr.

Bagaria would primarily rests on as to what would mean by a sham

transaction as a legal one and it is pointed out that all the parties thereto

must have a common intention that the acts or documents are not to create

the legal rights and obligations which they give the appearance of creating.

Further by referring to the decision in Vodafone International, it is

submitted that the revenue cannot start with the question as to whether the

transaction was a tax deferment/avoidance but the revenue should apply

the "look at" test to ascertain its true legal nature and that genuine strategic

planning had not been abandoned. Further the revenue has to establish on

the basis of facts and circumstances surrounding the transactions that the

impugned transaction is a sham or tax avoidance. In this regard Mr. Bagaria Page 112 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 also referred to the decision in the case of Hill Country Properties Limited

 Versus Goman Agro Farms Private Limited 90 and also the decision in

 IRC Versus Duke of Westminster 91 . 74. In our considered view we need not travel thus far and wide to

 examine as to how and what is said and what is not said in McDowell Mr.

 Soumen Bhattacharya referred to the decision for the simple reason, to

 point out that tax planning may be legitimate provided it is within the frame

 work of law as colourable devices cannot be part of tax planning which

 cannot be encouraged. Therefore what we are required to see is whether the

 claim made by the assesees before us are legitimate and whether there was

 any colourable devices adopted in the process and these colourable devices

 may or may not be directly but indirectly attributable to the assessee.

 Therefore, we need not labour much to examine as to how rule in McDowell

 needs to be applied as we are required to examine the factual scenario from

 the cases on hand which appear to be quite unique not probably drawn the

 attention of the courts and the tribunal earlier. 75. While it may be true that M/s. Swati Bajaj, Mr. Girish Tigwani or other

 assessees who are before us could have been regular investors, investors

 could or could not have been privy to the information or modus adopted. In

 our considered view, what is important is that it is the assessee who has to

 prove the claim to be genuine in terms of Section 68 of the Act. Therefore,

 the assessee cannot escape from the burden cast upon him and

 unfortunately in these cases the burden is heavy as the facts establish that 90 (2015) SCC Online Hyderabad 1021 91 (1936) AC 1 - House of Lords Page 113 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 the shares which were traded by the assessees had phenomenal and fanciful

 rise in price in a short span of time and more importantly after a period of

 17 to 22 months, thereafter has been a steep fall which has led to huge

 claims of STCL. Therefore, unless and until the assessee discharges such

 burden of proof, the addition made by the assessing officer cannot be

 faulted. 76. It was argued that unless there are foundational facts, circumstantial

 evidence cannot be relied on. This argument does not merit acceptance as

 wealth of information and facts were on record which is the outcome of the

 investigation on the companies, stock brokers, entry operators etc. Based on

 those foundational facts the department has adopted the concept of

 "working backward" leading to the assessees. While at that relevant stage

 the sounding circumstances, the normal human conduct of a prudent

 investor, the probabilities that may spill over, were all taken into

 consideration to negative the claim for exception made by the assessee.

 Therefore, the department was fully justified in taking note of the prevailing

 circumstances to decide against the assessees. 77. While on the issue regarding the onus of proof, it would be beneficial

 to refer to the decisions which were relied on. In Durga Prasad More, the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court pointed out that on the question of onus that law

 does not prescribe any quantitative test to find out whether the onus in a

 particular case has been discharged or not and it depends on the facts and

 circumstances of each case. It was further held that in some cases, the onus

 may be heavy whereas in others, it may be nominal. In the said case the

 assessee was receiving some income which he stated that it is not his Page 114 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 income but that of his wife. On facts, it was found that the assessee's wife is

 supposed to have had Rs. 2 lakhs neither deposited in bank, nor advanced

 to others but safely kept in a safe. The assessee was unable to show from

 what source she built up the amount and Rs. 2 lakhs before the year 1940

 which was a big sum during the relevant time. The Tribunal disbelieved the

 story of the assessee and held it to prima facie be a fantastic story, a story

 that does not accord with human probabilities. It was further held that the

 Courts and Tribunals have to judge the evidence before it by applying the

 test of human probabilities, human minds may differ as to the reliability of a

 piece of evidence but in that sphere, the decision of the final fact finding

 authority is made conclusive by law. 78. In Sumati Dayal, the appeals were filed by the assessee against the

 order passed by the Income Tax Settlement Commission. On the aspect of

 burden of proof, it was pointed out that in all cases in which a receipt is

 sought to be taxed as income, the burden lies on the department to prove

 that it is within the taxing provision and if a receipt is in the nature of

 income, the burden of proving that it is not taxable because it falls within

 exemption provided by the Act, lies upon the assessee. With regard to the

 effect of Section 68 of the Act, it was held that where any sum is found

 credited in the books of the assessee in previous year, the sum may be

 charged to Income Tax as the income of the assessee of that previous year if

 the explanation offered by the assessee about the nature and source thereof

 is, in the opinion of the Assessing Officer, not satisfactory. It was further

 held that in such a case, the prima facie evidence against the assessee

 namely, the receipt of money and if he fails to rebut, the said evidence being Page 115 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 unrebuted, can be used against him by holding that it was a receipt of an

 income nature. The Hon'ble Supreme Court proceeds to discuss the facts of

 the case where the dispute was whether the winnings of the assessee

 therein were from horse races. Pointing out as to how this matter has to be

 examined, it was held that the matter has to be considered in the light of

 human probabilities and by applying the said test it was held that the

 assessee's claim therein about the amount being her winnings from horse

 races was not genuine. 79. It was argued on behalf of the assessees that the decision in Durga

 Prasad More and Sumati Dayal cannot be relied upon by referring to the

 factual scenario in those cases. The question would be as to whether the

 interpretation sought to be given by the learned Advocates for the assessees

 as regards the principle laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

 aforementioned decisions is justified or not. In Salmond On

 Jurisprudence, 12th Edition, the concept of ratio decidendi was explained

 by stating that what it decides generally, is the ratio decidendi or rule of law

 for which it is authority; what it decides between the parties includes far

 more than just this. The principles that have to be borne in mind, is to

 determine the ratio of any particular case which was explained. Further, a

 ratio is the rule the Judge acted on and it would be always said for certain

 what the rule was as in some cases an order or judgment is unsupported by

 reasons and the others there are lengthy judgment in which may be

 embodied several different propositions of all which support the decision.

 Therefore, the principle laid down in the decision has to be looked into by Page 116 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 culling out the ratio laid therein. Therefore, the revenue is fully justified and

 cannot be precluded from referring to the above decisions. 80. The decisions in Durga Prasad More and Sumati Dayal have been

 consistently referred in subsequent decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 and in this regard, it will be beneficial to refer to the decision in P.

 Mohanakala. The questions of law which were framed for consideration are

 more or less identical as the substantial questions of law raised before use

 with regard to the burden of proof cast on the assessee under Section 68 of

 the Act. It was held that the expression "the assessee offers no explanation" 81. In Roshan Di Hatti, it was held that the onus of proving the source of

 money found to have been received by an assessee is on him, if he disputes,

 it is not liable to tax, it is for him to show either that the receipt was not

 income or that if it was, it was exempt from taxation and in the absence of

 such proof the revenue is entitled to treat it as taxable income. Further, it

 was held that where the nature of and source of a receipt whether it be of

 money or of the property, cannot be satisfactorily explained by the assessee,

 it is open to the revenue to hold that it is the income of the assessee and no

 further burden lies on the revenue to show that the income is from any

 particular source. 82. In Kale Khan Mohammad Hanif, one of the questions referred was

 whether the burden of proof, source of cash credit is on the assessee. It was

 held that the answer to question must be in the affirmative and that is how

 it was answered by the High Court therein. It was held that the onus of

 proving the source of the sum of money found to have been received by the

 assessee is on him, if he disputes liability for tax, it is for him to show either

 that the receipt was not income or that if it was, it was exempt from taxation

 under the provision of the Act. 83. In Tharakumari, the appeal by the assessee was questioning the

 correctness of the finding as to whether LTCG claimed by the assessee,

 which was brought to tax by the Assessing Officer as unexplained income

 under Section 68 of the Act was justified. The said case also arose out of a

 penny stock where the assessee had purchased shares in M/s. Luminaries

 Technologies Ltd. The Division Bench of the Madras High Court took note of

 the findings recorded by the Tribunal which also referred to the report of the Page 118 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 DITI, Kolkata and held that the nature of transactions of sale of shares of a

 shell company was rightly held to be sham transactions and the same are to

 be taxed as undisclosed income under Section 68 of the Act. 84. In N.R. Portfolio Pvt. Ltd., the substantial question of law framed

 for consideration was whether the Tribunal was right in deleting the

 additions under Section 68 of the Act and whether the decision of the

 Tribunal is perverse. While answering the said question, it was pointed out

 that the Assessing Officer is both an investor and an adjudicator. The

 Assessing Officer can also refer to incriminating material or evidence

 available with him and call upon the assessee to file their response and a

 general and universal procedure or method to be adopted by the Assessing

 Officer while verification of facts cannot be laid down. Further, the manner

 and mode of conducting assessment proceedings has to be left to the

 discretion of the Assessing Officer and the same should be just, fair and

 should not cause any harassment to the assessee. Further, it was held that

 the provisions of the Evidence Act are not applicable but the Assessing

 Officer being a quasi-judicial authority, must take care and caution to

 ensure that the decision is reasonable and satisfies the balance of equity,

 fairness of justice and the principle of preponderance of probabilities apply.

 The assessee argued that the revenue must have evidence to show

 circulation of money from the assessee to the third party which contention

 was rejected by the Court holding it to be fallacious and after referring to the

 decision in A. Govindarajulu Mudaliar Versus CIT 92 wherein the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court observed that it is not the duty of the revenue to adduce 92 (1958) 34 ITR 807 (SC) Page 119 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

evidence to show from what source income was derived and why it should

be treated as concealed income and the assessee must prove satisfactorily

the source and the nature of cash received during the accounting year and it

is not necessary for the revenue to locate the exact source. Further, it was

observed that the Court was conscious of the doctrine of "source of source" 85. The Court then proceeded to refer to the decision of the Full Bench in

 CIT Versus Sophia Finance Ltd.93 wherein it was held as follows: (1993) 113 CTR (Del) (FB) 472 : (1994) 205 ITR 98 (Del) (FB) Page 121 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH 86. The Court referred to the decision in Commissioner of Income Tax

 Versus Nova Promoters Finlease Private Limited 94 wherein it was held

 that in view of the link between the entry providers and incriminating

 evidence, mere filing of PAN, acknowledgement of IT Returns of the entry

 providers, bank account statements etc. where not sufficient to discharge

 the onus under Section 68 of the Act. Further it was held that credit

 worthiness cannot be proved by mere issue of a cheque or by furnishing a

 copy of the bank account and circumstances might require that there may

 be some evidence of positive nature to show that the said subscribers had

 made a genuine, investment as well as angel investor after due diligence or

 for personal reasons and the findings or a conclusion must be practicable,

 pragmatic and might in a given case take into account that the assessee

 might find it difficult to unequigibly established credit worthiness of the

 shareholders. After noting the several decisions, it was held that the Court

 or the Tribunal should be convinced about the identity, credit worthiness

 and the genuineness of the transactions and the onus to prove the three

 factoms is on the assessee as the facts are within the assessee's

 acknowledge. Mere production of incorporation details, PANs or the fact

 that the third persons or the companies had filed income tax details in case

 of a private limited company may not be sufficient when surrounding and

 attending facts predicate a cover up. Further it was held that the facts in

 the case reflect proper paper work or the documentation but genuineness

 and credit worthiness, identity are deeper and obtrusive. It was held that it

 would be incorrect to state that the onus to prove the genuineness of the 94 (2012) 342 ITR 169 (Delhi) Page 122 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 transactions and credit worthiness of the creditors stands discharged in all

 cases if payment is made through banking channels. Whether or not onus

 is discharged depends upon the facts of each case, it depends on whether

 the two parties are related or known to each other, the manner or mode by

 which the parties approached each other, whether the transaction was

 entered into through written documentation to protect the investor,

 whether the investor professes an angel investor, the quantum of money,

 credit worthiness of the recipient and the object and purpose for which

 payments/investment was made etc. It was held that these facts are

 basically and primarily in the knowledge of the assessee and it is difficult

 for revenue to prove and establish the negative. Certification of

 incorporation of company payment by bank channels etc. cannot be in all

 cases tantamount to satisfactory discharge of onus. 87. Mr. Agarwal sought to distinguish the decision in Manish D. Jain by

 pointing out the facts of the case and the modus operandi of the assessee.

 As pointed out earlier, what we are required to examine in a judgment is

 the ratio and if we bear the said concept in mind, we would be guided in a

 proper manner. In the said decision, the judgment in Sumati Dayal was

 referred to which decision was followed in Sanjay Kaul Versus PCIT 95

 wherein it was held that where the assessee was not a regular investor in

 shares and had only invested in high risk stocks of obscure companies

 with no business activities or assets, which were identified as the penny

 stocks, the assessing officer had correctly concluded that the assessee

 entered into a pre-arranged sham transaction so as to convert 95 (2020) 199 Taxmann.com 470 Page 123 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 unaccounted money into accounted money in guise of capital loss and

 therefore, the alleged Short Term Capital Loss (STCL) was rightly

 disallowed. Similar view was taken in Sanjay Bimalchand Jain Versus

 PCIT Nagpur 96, in the said case the assessee had purchased shares from

 the penny stocks companies for a lower amount and within a year, sold

 such shares at higher amount and the assessee had not tendered cogent

 evidence to explain as to why the shares in unknown company had jumped

 to such a higher amount in no time and also failed to provide details of

 persons, who purchased the said shares and the transaction was held to

 be an attempt to hedge the undisclosed income as LTCG. In Suman

 Poddar Versus ITO 97 it was held that the share transactions were bogus

 because the company whose shares were allegedly purchased was a penny

 stock and this decision was affirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 (2019) 112 Taxman.com 330. In CIT Versus Oasis Hospitality Private

 Limited 98 it was held that the initial onus is upon the assessee to

 establish three things necessary to obviate the mischief of Section 68 and

 those are: (i) identity of the investors; (ii) their credit

 worthiness/investments and (iii) genuineness of the transactions and only

 when these three ingredients are established prima facie, the department is

 required to undertake further exercise. The Court after noting the legal

 position had examined the facts of the case, the modus operandi and 96 (2018) 89 Taxmann.com 196 97 (2019) 112 Taxmann.com 330 (SC) 98 (2011) 333 ITR 119 (Del) Page 124 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 allowed the appeal filed by the revenue. This decision was followed in PCIT

 Versus Prabha Jain 99. 88. The facts in NDR Promoters Private Limited are more or less

 similar to that of the cases on hand, identical objection was raised by the

 assessee with regard to the non-production of directors for cross

 examination etc. and the Court noted the facts in particular that the

 assessee did not have any business income in the year ending March 31st,

 2007 and had a marginal income from other sources in the year ending

 31st March 2008 and did not incur any expenditure in the year ending 31st

 March, 2007 and the shares of face value of Rs. 10/- each were issued at a

 premium of Rs. 40/-, the total Rs. 50/-. Thus, taking note of the factual

 position, the Court held that the transaction in question were clearly sham

 and make believe with an excellent paper work to camouflage their bogus

 nature. 89. The decision in Sanjay Kaul would also apply to the cases on hand

 as it was also a case where shares of penny stocks companies were

 involved and some of the companies are also in the list of companies in

 which the assessees before us have traded and one such company being

 Kailas Auto Finance limited. The Court took note of the decision in Suman

 Poddar Versus ITO 100 and the dismissed appeal filed by the assessee,

 was dismissed. 90. At this juncture it would be relevant to take note of the decision of

 the High Court of Delhi in Suman Poddar Versus Income Tax Officer 99 (2021) 439 ITR 304 (Mad) 100 (2019) 112 Taxmann.com 330 (SC) Page 125 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

(ITO) which was affirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in (2019) 112

taxman.com 330:- Ratnakar M Pujari vs. ITO in IT no. 995/Mum/2012,
 order dated 03.08.2016. ITA 841/2019 page 9 of 10 Disha N. Lalwani vs. ITO in ITA No.
 6389/Mum/2012, order dated 22.03.2017. ITO vs.
 Shamin M. Bharwani MANU/IU/0493/2015 : [2016]
 69 taxmann.com 65. Usha Chandresh Shah vs. ITO
 in ITA No. 6858/Mum/2011, order dated
 26.09.2014, CIT vs. Smt. Jasvinder Kaur
 MANU/GH/0241/2013: 357 ITR 638

 Facts as well as rationale given by Hon'ble High
 Court are squarely applicable to case before us. Hence, keeping in view overall facts and
 circumstances of case that profits earned by
 assessee are part of major scheme of
 accommodation entries and keeping in view ratio of
 judgments quoted above, we, hereby decline to
 interfere in order of ld. CIT(A). 91. In Udit Kalra Versus ITO in Manu/De/1507/2019, a similar case of

 investment in 4000 shares in a penny stock company which share prices

 increased astronomically within a period of approximately 19 months when

 the price of acquisition was Rs. 12/- per share, on the date of sale it was Rs.

 720/-. The High Court of Delhi affirmed the order passed by the Tribunal

 and dismissed the appeal filed by the assessee. 92. During the course of argument, it was submitted on behalf of the

 revenue that if the Court is satisfied that the order of the tribunal is Page 134 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 perfunctory, the matter may be remanded to the tribunal for fresh

 consideration. The question would be as to whether remand of the matter to

 the tribunal is warranted and justified considering the submissions on

 either side. Unless and until, it is a case of absolutely no material, a remand

 was not called for. If the tribunal had failed to exercise its jurisdiction and

 test the correctness of the findings of the CIT (A) and the assessing officer,

 this Court can very well ignore the decision of the tribunal and consider the

 findings rendered by the assessing officer and the CIT(A) for its legality. 93. In CIT Bihar Versus S.P. Jain 101, the order passed by the High

 Court confirming the conclusions arrived at by the tribunal was put to

 challenge before the Hon'ble Supreme Court and it was contended on behalf

 of the revenue that tribunal based its conclusion on inadmissible evidence

 and on wrong facts and gave no reason for rejecting the findings of the

 income tax officer, failed to take into account the relevant material on record

 and based its conclusions on mere conjectures and surmises. The question

 was whether the Court is denuded of jurisdiction to consider the correctness

 of the findings recorded by the assessing officer and the CIT(A).The Hon'ble

 Supreme Court while answering the said issue held as follows:- Though this question, in what circumstances will this
 Court interfere with the finding given by the Tribunal or
 arrive at different conclusion to that arrived by it. In our view, the High Court and this Court have always
 the 'jurisdiction to intervene if it appears that either the
 Tribunal has misunderstood the statutory language,
 because the proper construction of the statutory
 language is a matter of law, or it has arrived at a
 finding based on no evidence or where the finding is
 inconsistent with the evidence or contradictory of it, or it
 has acted on material partly irrelevant or where the
 tribunal draws upon its own imagination imports facts
 and circumstances not apparent from the record of
 bases its conclusions or mere conjectures or surmises or
 where no person judicially acting and properly
 instructed as to the relevant law could have come to the
 determination reached. In all such cases the findings
 arrived at are vitiated. 94. At this juncture, it would be relevant to note the powers executable by

 this Court under Section 260A of the Act. Sections 103, 107, Order 41 rule

 33 read with Section 260A (7) of the Act confers ample powers on this Court

 to interfere with the orders of the learned Tribunal. 95. Regarding the burden of proof in a case arising under Section 68 of

 the Act, it would be beneficial to refer to the decision of the High Court of

 Delhi in CIT Nippun Builders and Development Private Limited in ITA

 NO. 120 of 2012 dated 07.01.2013 wherein it was held as follows:- Page 136 of 150 Section 68 thus only codified the law as it existed before
1.4.1962 and did not introduce any new principle or rule.
Therefore the ratio laid down in the three Supreme Court
Judgments is equally applicable to the interpretation of Section 68 of the 1961 Act. We may also state that the
learned counsel for the assessee vaguely referred to some
decision taking the view that it was necessary for the AO,
before making the addition under Section 68 , to prove that
the share application monies actually emanated from the
assessee and represented undisclosed income of the
assessee. He, however, did not cite any of those decisions.
In any case the law having been laid down by the
Supreme Court in the judgments cited above, we do not
think that there is any merit in his submission. A perusal of the order of the Tribunal shows that it has
gone on the basis of the documents submitted by the
assessee before the AO and has held that in the light of
those documents, it can be said that the assessee has
established the identity of the parties. It has further been
observed that the report of the investigation wing cannot
conclusively prove that the assessee's own monies were
brought back in the form of share application money. As
noted in the earlier paragraph, it is not the burden of the
AO to prove that connection. There has been no
examination by the tribunal of the assessment proceedings
in any detail in order to demonstrate that the assessee has
discharged its onus to prove not only the identity of the Page 138 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 share applicants, but also their creditworthiness and the
 genuineness of the transactions. No attempt was made by
 the tribunal to scratch the surface and probe the
 documentary evidence in some depth, in the light of the
 conduct of the assessee and other surrounding
 circumstances in order to see whether the assessee has
 discharged its onus under Section 68 . With respect, it
 appears to us that there has only been a mechanical
 reference to the case-law on the subject without any
 serious appraisal of the facts and circumstances of the
 case. 96. Mr. Roy Chowdhury had pointed out to the findings recorded by the

 assessing officer in the case of Dinesh Kumar Bansal which is the subject

 matter of ITAT NO. 31 of 2020 wherein the assessee had invested in Kailash

 Auto Finance. In his submission, the order of the assessing officer is a well

 written order and he had elaborately referred to the findings recorded by the

 assessing officer. On going through the said order, we find the assessing

 officer has cogently brought out the factual scenario to establish

 machinations of fraudulent, manipulative and deceptive dealings and how

 the stock exchanges system was misused to generate bogus LTCG. On going

 through the order, we agree with Mr. Roy Chowdhury that the order of the

 said assessing officer is a well- reasoned order. Further we note that there is

 also discussion on the various decisions by the assessing officer after

 recordings findings on facts which in our opinion is an appropriate method

 of referring to and relying upon the legal precedence. 97. The revenue relied upon the order passed by the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in Daniel Merchant Private Limited Versus ITO and others Special Page 139 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 Leave to Appeal No. 23976 of 2017 dated 10.04.2017 wherein the judgment

 of this Court was confirmed wherein the CIT had passed orders under Section 263 of the Act. It is submitted that in cases where the order

 impugned before the tribunal where orders passed by the Commissioner

 under Section 263 , independent reasons have been given by the

 Commissioner as to how the order passed by the assessing officer was

 erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial to the interest of revenue. In this

 regard, Mr. Prithu Dhudhoria learned standing counsel has taken us

 through the order passed by the Commissioner which are subject matter of

 ITAT No. 122 of 2021 and ITAT No. 156 of 2021. 98. In a few appeals, the order of the Tribunal has been passed in

 appeals filed by the assessees against the orders passed by the

 Commissioner invoking the power under Section 263 of the Act. The

 Learned Senior Counsel for the assessee submitted that the assumption of

 jurisdiction by the Commissioner under Section 263 is thoroughly flawed

 that there has been violation of principles of natural justice in as much as

 the Commissioner has pre-decided the issue even at the stage of issuance of

 show cause notice. 99. While proposing to invoke the power under Section 263 of the Act, the

 question as to whether the Commissioner was justified in invoking the

 power under Section 263 has to be decided based on facts of each case. The

 assessee cannot be allowed to contend that the language employed in the

 orders passed by the Commissioner under Section 263 does not mention

 about how the assessments order was erroneous in so far as it is prejudicial

 to the interest of revenue. These words or phrases are contained in Section Page 140 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

263 of the Act. Merely because the Commissioner has not used these words

or phrases occurring in Section 263 will not vitiate the assumption of

jurisdiction. What is required to be seen is the content of the order and the

discussion and findings rendered by the Commissioner. This is because the

cardinal principle is that substance over form has to be preferred. The

Commissioner while issuing the show cause notice had come to the prima

facie conclusion that the assessing officer did not conduct an enquiry as

required to justify such prima facie opinion. The Commissioner was required

to set out as to why in his opinion the enquiry by the assessing officer was

not proper or insufficient. On reading of the orders passed by the

Commissioner under Section 263 which are the subject matter in ITAT No.

156 of 2021 and other similar matters, it is seen that the Commissioner has

disclosed to the assessee as to why in his case the power under Section 263 has to be invoked. On reading of the orders passed by the Commissioner, we

find that the order to be a reasoned order and there is nothing to conclude.

The issue was pre-decided. The assessments orders which are subject

matter of Section 263 action shows that an enquiry has not been conducted

by the assessing officer in the manner it ought to have been conducted. We

say so because, the officers of the income tax department were fully aware of

the investigation which was done and the report been circulated and

therefore at that stage that the officer had to take note of such report to put

the assessee on notice and commenced an enquiry by calling upon the

assessee to justify the genuineness of the claim of LTCG/STCL. The

assessing officer turned a blind eye to the project investigation which was

carried out by the department. The assessing officer lost sight of the fact Page 141 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

that the enquiry did not commence from that of the assessee and more

particularly the name of the assessee did not feature in the investigation

report. Therefore the assessing officer was bound to cause an enquiry by

calling upon the assessee to explain and justify the genuineness of the claim

for exemption made by them. If the assesses has not established the

genuinity at the "other end" the assessing officer would have no other

operation except making the addition under Section 68 of the Act. We find

that in these cases the assessing officers missed an important point as to

what is the nature of enquiry which he is required to do. The assessing

officer merely went by the submission that the stock broker is a public

sector company. Unfortunately this is not the manner in which the enquiry

should have been conducted. The entire case before the department was the

genuinity of the claim for LTCG/STCL and the basis was unhealthy and

steep rise of the price of the shares of mostly the paper companies though

listed before the stock exchanges their shares were very rarely traded and in

the background of these facts the enquiry should have been conducted by

the assessing officer. Therefore we are of the clear view that the assumption

of jurisdiction under Section 263 of the Act by the respective Commissioners

was fully justified and are shown to be proper exercise of power. The

tribunal while interfering with the orders of the Commissioner once again

posed a wrong question to itself and failed to approach the matter in the

proper perspective considering the backgrounds in which the power was

invoked. The tribunal brushed aside the surrounding circumstances which

have led to such assessments or orders under Section 263 . The

manipulative practice adopted by the stock brokers and entry operators was Page 142 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

not even adverted to by the tribunal and the entire matter was dealt with in

a very superficial manner without dwelling deep into the core of the issue.

The tribunal being the last fact finding authority was required to go deeper

into the issue as the matter have manifested large scale scam. Thus, the

orders of the tribunal are not only perfunctory but perverse as well. The

exercise that was required to be done by the tribunal is to consider the

totality of the circumstances because the transactions are shown to be very

complex, the meeting of minds of the "players" can never be established by

direct evidence and therefore the surrounding circumstances was required

to be taken note of by the tribunal which exercise has not been done. We

have considered as to whether in such an event, should the matter be

remanded to the tribunal for fresh consideration. We have held that there is

no such requirement and that is the Court is empowered to examine the

findings recorded by the assessing officer, or the CIT (A) to arrive at a

conclusion. The assessees have been harping upon the opinion rendered by

the financial experts, professionals in the said field the information which

were available in the media etc. All these opinions are at best suggestions to

an investor. The assessees cannot state that merely because an expert had

issued a buy call or there was news in the media that a particular shares

shows an upwards trend and it is good time for buying those shares. They

jumped into the fray the assessees are to be reminded of the doctrine of

"caveat emptor". The assessees cannot take shelter under the opinion given

by the experts as it is not the expert who has indulged in the transaction

but it is the assessee. Therefore by following such experts advice if the

assessee gets into an "web" it is for him to extricate himself from the tangle Page 143 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

and he cannot reach out to the expert to bail him out. The assessees cannot

be heard to say that they had blindly followed advice of a third party and

made the investment. Selection of shares to be purchased is a very complex

issue, it requires personal knowledge and expertise as the investment is not

in a mutual fund. None of the assessees before us have shown to have to

made any risk analysis before making their investment in a "penny stock". If

according to them they have blindly taken a decision to invest in

insignificant companies they having done so at their own peril have to face

the consequences. Thus, the conduct of the assessees before us probabilities

the stand taken by the revenue, rightly the mind of the assessee as an

investor was taken note to deny the claim for exemption. It is in this

background that the human probabilities would assume significance. As

observed earlier the doctrine of preponderance of probabilities could very

well be applied in cases like the present one. We say human probabilities to

be the relevant factor as on account of the fact that the assessees are of

individuals or Hindu Undivided Families and the trading has been done in

the name of the individual assessee or by the Karta of the HUF. None of the

assessee before us have been shown to big time investor. This is evident

from the income details of the assessee which has been culled out by the

respective assessing officers. Assuming that the assessee is a regular

investor as was submitted to us by the learned advocates for the assessees

that in any manner cannot improve the situation as the claim for LTCG has

been only restricted to the shares which were purchased and sold by the

assessees in penny stocks companies. Therefore merely because the

assessee had invested in other blue chit companies had earned profit or Page 144 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

incurred loss cannot validate the tainted transactions. It has been

established by the department that the rise of the prices of the shares was

artificially done by the adopting manipulative practices. Consequently

whatever resultant benefits which accrue from out of such manipulative

practices are also to be treated as tainted. However, the assessee had

opportunity to prove that there was no manipulation at the other end and

whatever gains the assessee has reaped was not tainted. This has not been

proved or established by any of the assessee before us. Therefore, the

assessing officers were well justified in coming to a conclusion that the so

called explanation offered by the assessee was not to their satisfaction.

Thus, the assessee having not proved the genuineness of the claim, the

creditworthiness of the companies in which they had invested and the

identity of the persons to whom the transactions were done, have to

necessarily fail. In such factual scenario, the Assessing Officers as well as

the CIT(A) have adopted an inferential process which we find to be a process

which would be followed by a reasonable and prudent person. The Assessing

Officers and the CIT(A) have culled out proximate facts in each of the cases,

took into consideration the surrounding circumstances which came to light

after the investigation, assessed the conduct of the assessee, took note of

the proximity of the time between the buy and sale operations and also the

sudden and steep rise of the price of the shares of the companies when the

general market trend was admittedly recessive and thereafter arrived at a

conclusion which in our opinion is a proper conclusion and in the absence

of any satisfactory explanation by the assessee, the Assessing Officers were

bound to make addition under Section 68 of the Act. Page 145 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH 100. It was argued by the learned Advocates for the assessees that their

 clients are ordinary people who have made meagre investments and they

 cannot be branded as scamsters when big players in the market have been

 left scot free and in certain other cases, the big players who were also

 branded as scammers were allowed to avail the benefit of the Vivad Se

 Viswas Scheme. In fact, similar argument was advanced when we heard the

 applications filed by the revenue to condone the delay in filing in some of the

 present appeals. The argument on behalf of the assessee was that on

 account of not filing the appeals by the revenue within the period of

 limitation, their vested right to avail the benefit of the Vivad Se Viswas

 Scheme was taken away. We have rejected such an argument firstly by

 holding that there is no vested right for an assessee to come under the

 Scheme and this finding was rendered by us after examining the provisions

 of the V.S.V. Act, secondly we have held that cases cannot be decided based

 on hypothesis nor can the Court read the mind of the assessee that in the

 event, the revenue had filed appeal on time, the assessee may have availed

 the benefit under the V.S.V. Scheme. In fact, we find that the Comptroller

 and Auditor General has also severely commented upon the action taken by

 the Income Tax Department on such issues and that no uniform procedure

 had been followed by the various Income Tax Officers and in certain cases

 the assessments were not even reopened. Therefore, merely because in

 certain cases, appeals were preferred within the relevant time enabling,

 those assessees to avail the benefit of the V.S.V. Scheme can in no manner

 advance the case of the assessees before us. As has been argued before us

 by the learned Senior Standing Counsels, in the chain of events, there are Page 146 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

three main person who are involved, the first of which is the entry operator

who is said to have managed the overall scam as the entry operator controls

several paper companies which have been utilized for routing the cash. The

operator is also in control of some penny stock companies whose shares are

listed on recognized stock exchanges. It is true that "penny stock" is not an

offensive word or comes with a stigma. Penny stock is a stock which trades

at a relatively low prices and market capitals. These stocks are highly

speculative and they are categorized as high risk stocks largely due to lack

of liquidity. Furthermore, the shares of the penny stock are closely held as

the general public is not interested in these stocks due to the poor financials

of the listed companies. It is for such reasons the entry operators are said to

have chosen these penny stocks. In certain cases before us it has been

established that the promoters/ Directors of the penny stock companies are

also involved and they allowed the entry operators to manage the affairs of

the company in return of a commission paid to them. The third set of

persons involved, are the share brokers. As submitted by Mr. S.N. Surana,

learned Senior Counsel, the brokers are required to comply with very

stringent KYC norms before registering any entity as their client. The SEBI

Regulations cast very onerous responsibilities on the share brokers.

However, the trend appears that the penny stock companies have no

business or very little business got involved with the stock brokers and it is

stated that the share brokers receive commission for allowing the paper

entities to trade through their terminal and some of the brokers have also

stated to be performing the trading activity themselves on behalf of the

paper companies. The report states as to why the department has taken an Page 147 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

investigation as a project, largely due to huge syndicate of the entry

operators, share brokers and money launderers. The report states that

Kolkata is a very distinctive place among the cities of India, so far as the

accommodation entry is concerned and action has been initiated against

more than thirty share broking entities and more than twenty entry

operators working in Kolkata. The report states that almost everyone has

accepted its activity, participation in providing accommodation entry of

LTCG. The investigation has also indicated as to how the scheme of merger

is being misused. Though the scheme of merger is approved by the

Company Court, in the event it is found that such merger was done/

obtained by playing fraud, the Company Court is empowered to revoke the

order and it appears that the Income Tax Department has not taken any

steps in this regard to approach the Company Court or the Tribunal with

such a prayer. Thus, we have no hesitation to hold that the orders passed

by the CIT(A) affirming the orders passed by the Assessing Officers as well

as the orders passed by CIT under Section 263 of the Act were proper and

legal and the Tribunal committed a serious error in reversing such

decisions. Mr. Arif Ali, learned Advocate appearing for the appellant in ITAT

No. 44 of 2020 (Assessee-Gupta Agarwal) submitted that the facts which

have been set out in the memorandum of appeal, is wholly incorrect and

does not pertain to the assessee- Gupta Agarwal. We have gone through the

memorandum of appeal as well as the substantial questions of law

suggested by the revenue and find the same to be not relatable to the

assessee. This is on account of non-application of mind both by the Income

Tax Department as well as the Officers of the Ministry of Law and Justice. Page 148 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH

 More often we have stated that due care and caution has to be taken when

 appeals are drafted and filed before this Court and this is not the first case

 which has come up before us where the pleadings were irrelevant to the

 facts of the case. However, the substantial questions of law suggested by the

 revenue is with regard to the correctness of the order of the Tribunal in

 interfering with the order of the CIT(A) who affirmed the order of the

 Assessing Officer making the addition under Section 68 of the Act.

 Furthermore, we have to note that more than 90 appeals were allowed by

 the Tribunal in a single order and the facts of the 89 assessees were not

 noted by the Tribunal. In any event, the assessee, Mr.Gupta was quite

 happy with the result and he made no attempt to request the Tribunal to

 note his facts which according to him may have been unique as was

 submitted before us. If the assessees could take shelter under an order

 passed by the Tribunal which has not discussed even the basic facts of the

 assessees' case, we are not inclined to non-suit the revenue on the ground

 that some of the questions suggested in ITAT No. 44 of 2020 may not be

 relatable to the assessee- Gupta Agarwal. Therefore, though the grounds are

 not relatable to the assessee, this will not vitiate the appeal in its entirety as

 the core is the substantial questions of law which is required to be decided. 101. For all the above reasons, we hold that the Tribunal committed a

 serious error in setting aside the orders of the CIT(A) who had affirmed the

 orders of the Assessing Officer and equally the Tribunal committed a serious

 error both on law and fact in interfering with the assumption of jurisdiction

 by the Commissioner under Section 263 of the Act. Page 149 of 150 ITAT NO. 06 OF 2022 AND ETC. BATCH 102. In the result, these appeals are allowed and the substantial

 questions of law framed/suggested are answered in favour of the revenue and

 against the assessee restoring the orders passed by the respective Assessing

 Orders as affirmed by the CIT(A) as well as the orders passed by the CIT

 under Section 263 of the Act. No costs. (T.S. SIVAGNANAM, J)

 I agree. (HIRANMAY BHATTACHARYYA, J)

 (P.A- SACHIN/PRAMITA) Page 150 of 150