C. M. Applications No.5 and 6 of 2022
 
	The instant two applications have been moved by the petitioner to bring on record the heirs of deceased respondent no.2 Dinanath who is reported to have died on 20.10.2017. The record indicates that the notices were issued to the proposed legal heirs of the deceased. In furtherance whereof Shri Rajeiur Kumar Tripathi, learned counsel has filed his Vakalatnama. Considering the aforesaid facts and the ground shown in the application which is found sufficient, accordingly, the applications are allowed. Learned Additional Chief Standing Counsel shall carry out the necessary amendment during the course of the day. Heard Shri G. K. Pathak, learned Additional Chief Standing Counsel for the State-petitioner and Shri Rejeiu Kumar Tripathi, learned counsel appearing for private respondents on merits. By means of the instant petition preferred under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the State challenges the judgment and order dated 27.11.1979 passed by the District Judge in Ceiling Appeal No.148 of 1979 whereby the appeal of the private respondents was allowed and the order dated 26.03.1979 passed by the Prescribed Authority Qaisarganj District Bahraich declaring 71.373 acres of land belonging to the tenure holder Dinanath as surplus was set aside. It will be relevant to mention that the appeal before the Appellate Court was filed by Kailashnath and Moolchand who are the sons of Dinanath and have been impleaded as private respondents no.1 and 2. During pendency of the proceedings, Kailashnath and Moolchand both have died and their legal heirs are on record represented by Shri Rajeiu Kumar Tripathi. Briefly the facts giving rise to the instant petition are that upon the commencement of U.P. Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1960 initial notice under Section 10(2) of the said Act was issued to Dinanath son of Ram Bihari. The Prescribed Authority under the Ceiling Act by means of an ex parte order dated 20.06.1974 confirmed the ceiling notice issued to Dinanath. An application was moved by Dinanath for recall of the ex parte order. During aforesaid pendency, it was also noticed that another tenure holder namely Yashodra had expired on 24.06.1973 and her land also was clubbed with that of Dinanath. Accordingly, revised notice was sent to Dinanath indicating that the land of Yashodra was also be clubbed with that of Dinanath. Dinanath filed his objection wherein he challenged that the land belonging to Yashodra had been incorrectly clubbed with his holding on the ground that Yashodra had already an adopted son Ramji alias Lallu and he being her legal heir would inherit the share of Yashodra and the same could not be clubbed in the hands of Dinanath. The objections were filed by Ramji alias Lallu through his natural father claiming rights over the land and also to the effect that the holding ought not to be included with that of Dinanath. Before the said proceedings could be finalized, another tenure holder namely Smt. Kunta wife of Pratap Narain died. Another notice was issued to Dinanath for including her land of 15.279 acres with the holding of Dinanath. Separate objections were filed by Kailashnath son of Dinanath claiming that Smt. Kunta had executed her Will in favour of Kailashnath and Moolchand and as such they are in cultivatory possession, hence the said land could not be included or clubbed with that of Dinanath. Another issue that cropped up was that some land was sold by Dinanath to one Sundar Lal and this land was also included in the holdings of Dinanath. The Prescribed Authority, considering the objections and after permitting the parties to lead evidence, by means of order dated 26.03.1979 negatived the contentions of the tenure holder and confirmed the notice under Section 10(2) of the Ceiling Act and declared 71.373 acres of irrigated land as surplus. An appeal came to be filed by Kailashnath and Moolchand and the said appeal has been allowed by means of judgment dated 27.11.1979 by the District Judge Bahraich in Ceiling Appeal No.148 of 1979 and the notice under Section 10(2) of the Ceiling Act was cancelled and this judgment dated 27.11.1979 is under challenge in this petition. The Additional Chief Standing Counsel while assailing the impugned appellate order has raised the following contentions:- It is urged that from the perusal of the impugned judgment, it would indicate that the Appellate Court has merely recorded its conclusion but it is absolutely silent on the evidence available before the Prescribed Authority and how the conclusion of the Prescribed Authority based on such evidence was erroneous. The Appellate Court did not deal with the evidence or reason given by the Prescribed Authority in appeal and the Appellate Court has merely recorded its own finding conclusions without reversing the findings of the Prescribed Authority which has rendered the judgment passed by the Appellate Court bad in the eyes of law and deserves to be set aside. Shri Rajeiu Kumar Tripathi, learned counsel for the private respondent submits that in so far as the land of Yashodra which has been included with the holding of Dinanath is concerned, the same was erroneous for the reason that Yashodra had adopted Ramji alias Lallu and the adoption deed was placed on record. In light of the adoption deed, the land would vest with her son and could not be clubbed in the hands of Dinanath and therefore the findings recorded by the Appellate Authority to the aforesaid extent, cannot be doubted or be termed to be erroneous. It is also urged that as far as the Will of Smt. Kunta in favour of Kailashnath and Moolchand is concerned, the same is not hit by the transaction as mentioned in Section 5(6) of the Ceiling Act which has been recorded by the Appellate Court, hence the said finding also does not suffer from any error. It is urged that it is only a transfer which is susceptible to be seen in terms of Section 5(6) of the Ceiling Act but as the Will is a testamentary document which disposes the property in accordance with the wish of the testator, it is not included in the said section, hence the findings of the Appellate Authority cannot be faulted on that count. In support of his contention on this point he relies upon a discussion of this Court in Mulk Nath Singh Vs. State of U.P. and others passed in Writ-C No.3000002 of 1996 decided on 13.10.2022. It is further urged that in so far as the issue regarding sale deed executed by Dinanath in favour of Sundar Lal is concerned, the same was prior to 24.01.1971 i.e. the cut off date hence the same was protected and the said land could not be clubbed in the hands of Dinanath even though the tenure holder namely Sundar Lal did not appear before the Prescribed Authority to file any objections nor he preferred an appeal. For the aforesaid reasons, it is urged that the impugned order passed by the Appellate Authority is based on the sound reasoning and is not liable to be interfered with, consequently the writ petition be dismissed. The Court has considered the rival submissions and also perused the material on record. At the outset, it may be noticed that Sections 37 and 38 of the U.P. Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1960 clearly makes provisions of the CPC applicable by reference. The aforesaid sections read as under:- In view of the aforesaid, it will be relevant to notice that the Appellate Authority was obliged to have considered the appeal in the manner as provided under the Code of Civil Procedure . It will be appropriate to notice Order 41 Rule 31 CPC which reads as under:- and shall at the time that it is pronounced be signed and dated by the Judge 	or by the Judges concurring therein." In this context, since the Appellate Authority is exercising powers of the First Appellate Court it was incumbent upon the said court to have considered the various contentions, the evidence on record and then gone on to record its conclusion. In this regard the decision of the Apex Court in the case of Sudarsan Puhan Vs. Jayanta Ku. Mohanty and others reported in (2018) 10 SCC page 552 will be gainful to notice and the relevant portion reads as under:- 26. The above view was followed by a three Judge Bench decision of this Court in Madhukar & Ors. v. Sangram & Ors. ,(2001) 4 SCC 756, wherein it was reiterated that sitting as a court of first appeal, it is the duty of the High Court to deal with all the issues and the evidence led by the parties before recording its findings. 27. In H.K.N. Swami v. Irshad Basith,(2005) 10 SCC 243, this Court (at p. 244) stated as under: (SCC para 3) 
 
"3. The first appeal has to be decided on facts as well as on law. In the first appeal parties have the right to be heard both on questions of law as also on facts and the first appellate court is required to address itself to all issues and decide the case by giving reasons. Unfortunately, the High Court, in the present case has not recorded any finding either on facts or on law. Sitting as the first appellate court it was the duty of the High Court to deal with all the issues and the evidence led by the parties before recording the finding regarding title." 28. Again in Jagannath v. Arulappa & Anr., (2005) 12 SCC 303, while considering the scope of Section 96 of the Code, this Court (at pp. 30304) observed as follows: (SCC para 2) 
 
"2. A court of first appeal can reappreciate the entire evidence and come to a different conclusion." 29. Again in B.V Nagesh & Anr. vs. H.V. Sreenivasa Murthy , (2010) 13 SCC 530, this Court taking note of all the earlier judgments of this court reiterated the aforementioned principle with these words: 4. The appellate court has jurisdiction to reverse or affirm the findings of the trial court. The first appeal is a valuable right of the parties and unless restricted by law, the whole case is therein open for rehearing both on questions of fact and law. The judgment of the appellate court must, therefore, reflect its conscious application of mind and record findings supported by reasons, on all the issues arising along with the contentions put forth, and pressed by the parties for decision of the appellate court. Sitting as a court of first appeal, it was the duty of the High Court to deal with all the issues and the evidence led by the parties before recording its findings. The first appeal is a valuable right and the parties have a right to be heard both on questions of law and on facts and the judgment in the first appeal must address itself to all the issues of law and fact and decide it by giving reasons in support of the findings. ( Vide Santosh Hazari v. Purushottam Tiwari , (2001) 3 SCC 179 at p. 188, para 15 and Madhukar v. Sangram , (2001) 4 SCC 756 at p. 758, para 5.) 5. In view of the above salutary principles, on going through the impugned judgment, we feel that the High Court has failed to discharge the obligation placed on it as a first appellate court. In our view, the judgment under appeal is cryptic and none of the relevant aspects have even been noticed. The appeal has been decided in an unsatisfactory manner. Our careful perusal of the judgment in the regular first appeal shows that it falls short of considerations which are expected from the court of first appeal. Accordingly, without going into the merits of the claim of both parties, we set aside the impugned judgment and decree of the High Court and remand the regular first appeal to the High Court for its fresh disposal in accordance with law." 30. The aforementioned cases were relied upon by this Court while reiterating the same principle in State Bank of India & Anr. vs. Emmsons International Ltd. & Anr. , ( 2011) 12 SCC 174 and Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation vs. Mamta & Ors. (2016) 4 SCC 172." From the above, it would be clear, as to how the First Appellate Court must exercise its jurisdiction. However, unfortunately from the perusal of the impugned judgment passed by the Appellate Court dated 27.11.1979 this Court finds that the same is wanting in many material aspects of meeting with the reasons of the trial court, assigning its own reasons and reversing the findings. Even the counsel for the private respondent could not dispute the fact that neither the evidence led before the Prescribed Authority was noticed nor the findings recorded by the Prescribed Authority have been touched or noticed and reversed. Thus to the aforesaid extent, the submission of the counsel for the petitioner has force and this Court finds itself in agreement with it. Now considering the submissions raised by the respective parties on merits of the controversy, this Court finds that the findings recorded by the First Appellate Court that a Will of Smt. Kunta not being a transfer is not covered under Section 5(6) of the Ceiling Act and the said view is defended by the counsel for the respondent by relying upon a decision of a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in Mulk Nath Singh (supra) wherein the Co-ordinate Bench has relied upon the decision of the Apex Court in the case of Rathinam @ Kuppamuthu and others Vs. L. S. Mariappan and others [(2007) 6 SCC 724], while coming to its conclusion holding that a Will is not a transfer. In this regard, Section 5(6) of the U.P. Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1960 and the explanation appended thereto will be relevant to be noticed and which reads as under:- Explanation.-The expression 'adult son' in clauses (a) and (b) includes an adult son who is dead and has left surviving behind him minor sons or minor daughters (other than married daughters) who are not themselves tenure-holders or who hold land less than two hectares of irrigated land; (c) [x x x] (d) [x x x] (e) in the case of any other tenure-holder, 7.30 hectares of irrigated land; Explanation.-Any transfer or partition of land which is liable to be ignored under sub-sections (6) and (7) shall be ignored also- (f) for purposes of determining whether an adult son of a tenure-holder is himself a tenure-holder within the meaning of [clause (a) or clause (b)]; (g) for purposes of service of notice under Section 9 . (4) Where any holding is held by a firm or co-operative society or association of persons (whether incorporated or not, but not including a public company), its members (whether called partners, share-holders or by any other name) shall, for purposes of this Act, be deemed to hold that holding in proportion to their respective shares in that firm, co-operative society or other society or association of persons: Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to- (a) a transfer in favour of any person (including Government) referred to in sub-section (2); (b) a transfer proved to the satisfaction of the prescribed authority to be in good faith and for adequate consideration and under an irrevocable instrument not being a benami transaction or for immediate or deferred benefit of the tenure-holder or other members of his family. [Explanation I.-For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression transfer of land made after the twenty-fourth day of January, 1971, includes- [(a) a declaration of a person as a co-tenure-holder made after the twenty-fourth day of January, 1971 in a suit or proceeding irrespective of whether such suit or proceeding was pending on or was instituted after the twenty-fourth day of January, 1971]; (b) any admission, acknowledgment, relinquishment or declaration in favour of a person to the like effect, made in any other deed or instrument or in any other manner. Explanation II.-The burden of proving that a case falls within clause (b) of the proviso shall rest with the party claiming its benefit." From the above, it would indicate that it uses the terminology to include not mere simplicitor transfer but other deed or instrument or in any other manner. Considering this aspect the Apex Court in 1996 (27) ALR page 445 State of U.P. Vs. Bankey Singh and others has held as under:- In light of the aforesaid clear authority of the Apex Court which is in context with the provisions of the Ceiling Act, this Court finds that the decision cited by the counsel for the respondent and placing reliance on the Co-ordinate Bench decision of Mulk Nath Singh (supra) would be per incuriam for the reason it does not take note of the decision of the Apex Court in Bankey Singh (supra). Moreover, the decision of the Apex Court which has been relied upon in the case of Mulk Nath Singh (supra) namely that of S. Rathinam @ Kuppamuthu (supra) is not in context with the ceiling proceedings rather the said decision was in context with the general law where Will was held to be not a case of transfer. However, in the instant case since the proceedings arise out of a Special Act where special provisions have been incorporated and the same has been interpreted by the Apex Court in the case of Bankey Singh (supra), accordingly in the humble opinion of this court, the decision of Bankey Singh (supra) would be a binding authority and for the aforesaid reason, the Court is not inclined to accept the contention of the counsel for the respondent and follow the decision of Mulk Nath Singh (supra). It will also be relevant to notice that the finding which has been reversed by the Appellate Court in respect of the sale deed said to have been executed by Dinanath in favour of Sundar Lal, the same is not adequately considered nor supported with reasons. Whether the said sale deed was executed prior to 24.01.1971 or thereafter could only be proved once the said sale deed was on record. In absence of the said sale deed merely relying upon certain entries in the revenue records which do not establish title and are only for fiscal purposes could not give rise to a categorical finding and conclusion that since the name of Sundar Lal was recorded in the revenue records prior to the said date of 24.01.1971 without clear dates being available as to when it was entered in the revenue records and what was the basis and the reason for incorporating such entries. The findings of the Appellate Court on the aforesaid point are not supported by any clear and cogent evidence, hence are unsustainable. Now coming to the third issue regarding clubbing the land of Yashodra in the hands of Dinanath, ignoring the adoption deed, even the said findings recorded by the Appellate Court do not inspire confidence as the Prescribed Authority while holding the adoption to be not proved had painstakingly considered the evidence of the witnesses as well as noticed the fact that Ramji alias Lallu was the son of Kailashnath who just few month prior to the death of Yashodra had been given in adoption to her. Dinanath otherwise, being the natural grand father of Ramji, the said adoption was created only to divert the property so that it may escape the clutches of the Ceiling Act. The Prescribed Authority also noticed that the husband of Yashodra has expired long ago and in case if he had expressed his desire to adopt the son, then Yashodra ought to have adopted the child much before and not at the late stage when the Ceiling Act had already come into the picture and therefore the transaction was not valid. How a ceiling area is to be considered while adjudging a transaction and whether it would be hit by Section 5 (6) of the Ceiling Act and the manner in which the Prescribed Authority is to hold an inquiry in this regard has been considered by the Apex Court in (1997) 1 SCC page 734 State of U.P. Vs. Amar Singh and others , the relevant portion thereof reads as under:- The Apex Court again in the case of Brijendra Singh Vs. State of U.P. & others 1981 (1) SCC page 597 has considered the issue and the relevant portion reads as under:- 16. There is no dispute in regard to the connotation, construction and existence of ingredients (ii), (iii) and (iv) in the instant case. Controversy, however centres round the true meaning and scope of the expression "good faith" within the contemplation of clause (b) of the proviso. In the instant case, the Appellate Authority appears to have taken the view -- a view which has been upheld by the High Court -- that a transfer cannot be said to have been made in "good faith" merely because it has been honestly or genuinely made and satisfies the aforesaid Conditions (ii), (iii) and (iv), unless it is proved further that it was made for a valid pressing necessity. ............ 18. The expression "good faith" has not been defined in the Ceiling Act. The expression has several shades of meaning. In the popular sense, the phrase "in good faith" simply means "honestly, without fraud, collusion, or deceit; really, actually, without pretence and without intent to assist or act in furtherance of a fraudulent or otherwise unlawful scheme", (see Words and Phrases, Permanent Edn., Vol. 18-A, p. 91). Although the meaning of "good faith" may vary in the context of different statutes, subjects and situations, honest intent free from taint of fraud or fraudulent design, is a constant element of its connotation. Even so, the quality and quantity of the honesty requisite for constituting "good faith" is conditioned by the context and object of the statute in which this term is employed. It is a cardinal canon of construction that an expression which has no uniform, precisely fixed meaning, takes its colour, light and content from the context. 19. The meaning and scope of the expression "good faith" is therefore, to be considered in the light of the scheme and purpose of Section 5, in general, and the context of proviso (b) to sub-section (6), in particular. We have already noticed that the primary object of the Ceiling Act, as adumbrated in the pivotal provision in Section 5(1) is to prohibit and disentitle a tenure holder from holding land in the aggregate in the State of Uttar Pradesh, in excess of the ceiling area, in his own right, whether in his own name, or ostensibly in the name of any other person. The ceiling area and surplus land of a tenure holder under the Ceiling Act, as already mentioned, are to be determined as on June 8, 1973 when the U.P. (Amendment) Act 18 of 1973 came into force. A transfer, therefore, made after January 24, 1971 which is designed to serve as a cloak for retention of a right or interest of the transferor in the ostensibly transferred land in excess of the ceiling area, even on or after June 8, 1973, will be patently not "in good faith". But the proviso (b) to sub-section (6) of Section 5 extends the negative aspect of the concept "good faith" a little further by indicating, that even if the transfer is not an ostensible transfer and the transferor divests himself of all interest and rights in present in the transferred land, but reserves some benefit in futuro for himself or other members of his family, then also, the transfer will be not in "good faith". A transfer solely for the purpose of converting surplus land into cash without any kind of need (not to be confused with legal necessity) may also lack good faith. 20. Broadly speaking, the benefit of clause (b) of the proviso to sub-section (b) is available to a transfer made in good faith, that is, to a bona fide transfer whereby the tenure holder genuinely and irrevocably transfers all right, title and interest in the land in favour of the transferee, in the ordinary course of management of his affairs and which is not a collusive arrangement, or device or subterfuge to enable the tenure holder to continue to hold the surplus land or any reserved interest in presenti or in future, therein, (or merely to convert it into cash), and thus circumvent the ban under Section 5(1) of the Ceiling Act. In order to be entitled to the benefit of proviso (a), a transfer made in good faith, must satisfy the further conditions, (ii) to (iv), enumerated in the proviso (b). The positive conditions laid down in proviso (b) are: that the transfer should be for adequate consideration; that it should have been made under an irrevocable instrument. The negative conditions set out in clause (b) of the proviso are: that it must not be a benami transaction; that it must not be for immediate or deferred benefit of the transferring tenure holder or other members of his family. These tests or Conditions (ii),(iii) and (iv) provided in proviso (b) may not by themselves be conclusive to hold that the transfer was in "good faith". For instance, another important test for judging the genuineness or otherwise of a sale would be whether or not cultivatory possession and enjoyment of the land has passed under the sale to the vendee. Even so, once it is established by the transferring tenure holder that the transfer in question effected in the course of ordinary management of his affairs, was made for adequate consideration and he has genuinely, absolutely and irrevocably divested himself of all right, title and interest (including cultivatory possession) in the land in favour of the transferee, the onus under Explanation II, in the absence of any circumstances suggestive of collusion, or an intention or design to defraud or circumvent the Ceiling Act, on the tenure holder to show that the transfer was effected in "good faith", will stand discharged, and it will not be necessary for the tenure holder to prove further that the transfer was made for an impelling need or to raise money for meeting a pressing legal necessity. Although proof of the fact that a transfer was made for a valid pressing necessity may highlight or strengthen the inference in favour of the genuineness of the transfer, it is not an indispensable constituent of "good faith"; nor is the proof of legal necessity requisite, as a matter of law, to enable a tenure holder to avail of the benefit of clause (b) of the proviso. It may be remembered that at the time when such a transfer was made, there was no legal restriction on his power to alienate the whole or any part of his holding. In other words, at the time when such a transfer was made it was not unlawful, even if it were made without any pressing necessity. It became unlawful by the subsequent enactment of a legal fiction introduced in Section 5(6) of the Ceiling Act (U.P. Act 18 of 1973) with retrospective effect from January 24, 1971. Even so, under this statutory fiction, a transfer of land made after January 24, 1971 does not become wholly void for all purposes; it can be ignored and would not be taken into account in determining the ceiling area of the transferring tenure holder for purposes of the Ceiling Act, and that too, if the following two conditions are satisfied-- (a) that the land but for the transfer would have been declared surplus land under the U.P. Act 18 of 1973; and (b) that the transfer is not of a kind covered by proviso (6) to Section 5(6) of the Act. This being the position, once a transfer is shown to be bona fide and further satisfies all the other positive and negative conditions laid down in the proviso (b) to Section 5(6), there is no justification in law to stretch the legal fiction further and to spell out from the expression "good faith" an additional requirement of proving pressing necessity for the transfer before the tenure holder is entitled to the benefit of the aforesaid proviso (b). In light of what is culled out from the decisions of the Apex Court noticed above, this Court observes that the Appellate Authority must consider the evidence in a manner aforesaid to find out whether the transactions are bonafide. Now noticing the aforesaid dictum in Amar Singh (supra), Nawal Singh (supra) and Brijendra Singh (supra) and applying the said principles to the instant case, this Court finds that the Appellate Court has not adhered to the principles of law settled and also the manner in which the objections of the tenure holder and the evidence thereon is to be considered. Moreover, categorical findings which have been recorded by the Prescribed Authority have not been considered by the Appellate Court in its correct prespective nor any reason has been incorporated why the conclusion of the Prescribed Authority were erroneous nor the findings of the Prescribed Authority have been reversed. In view of the aforesaid discussions, this Court has no hesitation to hold that the impugned judgment passed by the Appellate Court dated 27.11.1979 cannot sustain judicial scrutiny and is liable to be set aside. For the reasons aforesaid, the writ petition is allowed. A writ of certiorari is issued and the impugned judgment dated 27.11.1979 passed in Ceiling Appeal No.148 of 1979 shall stand quashed. The matter shall stand remitted to the Appellate Authority who shall after affording full opportunity of hearing to the parties shall pass a fresh order in appeal noticing the observations made in the judgment preferably within a period of six months, from the date a copy of this order is placed before the Appellate Court. In the facts and circumstances, there shall be no order as to costs. ( Jaspreet Singh, J ) 
 

 
Order Date :- April 4, 2023
 
ank/-