This petition is filed by accused Nos.1 to 5 under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. praying to quash the entire

proceedings in Crime No.7219/2020, pending on the file

of I Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Bengaluru,

arising out of Crime No.6/2020 of Cyber Crime Police

Station (CID) for the offences punishable under Sections -4- 403, 406, 408, 426, 120B r/w.34 of IPC and Sections 66 and 72 of Information Technology Act, 2000. 2. I have heard Sri Uday Holla, learned Senior

Counsel on behalf of Sri Smaran Shetty for the

petitioners-accused No.1 to 5, Sri C.V.Nagesh, learned

Senior Counsel on behalf of Smt. Chinmayi Mirji, for

respondent No.2-complainant virtually and Sri

H.R.Showri, learned HCGP for respondent No.1-State 3. Though this case is listed for orders, with the

consent of both parties, the same is taken up for final

disposal. 4. Brief facts of the case are that the complainant

Acko General Insurance Limited is a Company

incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act,

2013 . It is wholly owned by subsidiary of Acko

Technology and Services Private Limited (Acko Tech). It

is further alleged Acko GI is engaged in the business of -5- manufacturing and selling insurance and is an entity

licensed by Insurance Regulatory and Development

Authority of India. Acko GI was founded in the year 2016

and has invested more than 800 Crores of rupees and

within two years of its establishment, is able to develop

unique developed complex actuarial and data science

models which predicts various key metrics across sectors

like travel, health, mobile, commerce. It has also

developed very sensitive information including list of

clients, business models, business strategy and other

trade secrets. All these data and formulae form part of

confidential information of Acko Group. It is further

alleged that confidential information is proprietary

information of Acko Group exclusively owned by it. 5. It is further alleged that the petitioner No.1-

accused No.1 joined Acko GI as its full time employee in

the position of Actuarial Associate on 17.3.2017. Later he

resigned and started his own firm and had entered into -6- consultant agreements dated 1.8.2018 and 1.4.2019 with

Acko Group. It is further alleged that he was working on

various projects and advising Acko Group. Subsequently,

accused No.2-petitioner No.2 was employed as Vice-

President of New Business and Partnerships at Acko

Group on 4.9.2017. They have signed corporate

governance document in relation to code of conduct,

antifraud and information and data security policies of

Acko Group. Accused No.1 is bound by Clause-6 of the

agreement about the confidential information and non-

disclosure of confidential information. Accused No.2 is

also bound by the said agreement to maintain

confidentiality and non-compete clause under Agreement

No.2. It is further alleged that accused Nos.1 and 2

during their tenure with Acko Group were entrusted with

confidential information which they had to use exclusively

for the benefit of Acko Group and were bound not to

disclose such information to any person or third party-

company. Under such circumstances, accused Nos.1 and -7- 2 in collusion with one Mr.Bhagwati Prasad Agarwal and

Ms.Uma Agarwal Mrs.Sunita Poddar, wife of accused No.1

hatched a criminal conspiracy to cheat and fraud Acko

Group to steal the confidential information and start their

own competitive business by using confidential

information taken from Acko Group. The said

information has been stolen during their course of

engagement and employment. It is further alleged that

accused No.1 through his parents and wife has set up a

competitor company under the name "Onsurity Services

Private Limited incorporated on 15.5.2019 when he was

working with Acko Group. It is further alleged that

accused Nos.1 and 2 fraudulently disclosed the

confidential information stolen by them to Onsurity

Services Private Limited to make illegal financial gain. 6. It is further alleged that accused No.1 had

terminated his consultancy contract with Acko Group on

30.9.2019. However, accused No.2 continued his -8- employment with Acko Group with criminal intention to

pass on the confidential information from Acko Group to

accused No.1 to build a rival business venture. Accused

No.2 continued stealing of confidential information till he

had enough data to set up their competitor company.

After they got sufficient data and information they set up

a company under the name and style "Onsurity

Technologies Private Limited on 5.2.2020 in which

accused No.1 is the Director, accused No.2 is a co-

founder and shareholder. Subsequently accused No.2

also gave resignation on 14.1.2020. It is further alleged

that during notice period, accused No.2 was permitted to

hand over the confidential information to Acko Group

which was entrusted to him. Accused No.2 without the

permission of Acko Group unauthorisidely downloaded

the confidential information and has illegally disclosed

and transmitted to Onsurity Technologies Private Limited.

It is further alleged that when the Google log was

checked and verified, it is noticed that he has -9- downloaded huge data of key confidential information

from 14.2.2020 to 24.2.2020 during his notice period.

He had an intent to conceal his illegal activities and had

tampered and deleted his operating system from Acko

Group laptop assigned to him. It is further alleged that

accused Nos.1 and 2 with an intent to set up a rivalry

business after stealing confidential information from Acko

Group, they have done the said act. It is further alleged

that the said records disclosed the confidential

information which has been stolen and they had made

financial illegal gain from the same. It is further alleged

that subsequently it came to the knowledge of the

complainant that the accused persons replicated investor

memorandum/pitch deck of Acko Group and have raised

Rupees 20 Crores from Nexus Ventures. It is the copy of

Acko Group. It is further alleged that accused Nos.1

and 2 in collusion with accused Nos.3 to 5 have been

soliciting the existing clientel/investors of Acko Group

through telephonic calls and personal meetings to cause - 10 - them to stop doing business with Acko Group with an

intention to cause wrongful financial loss and hardship to

the Acko Group. Accused No.2 is also using the stolen

information and confidential information to develop the

pirated products which are infringing upon the rights of

Acko Group. The above said act has been done with

conspiracy of all the accused persons with an intention to

make gain and cause illegal loss to the complainant. On

the basis of the complaint a case has been registered in

Crime No.6/2020 of Cyber Crime Police Station (CID) for

the offences punishable under Sections 403, 406, 408,

426, 120B r/w. Section 34 of IPC and Sections 62 and 72 of Information Technology Act, 2000. 7. It is the submission of Sri Uday Holla, learned

Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners-

accused Nos.1 to 5 that the contents of the complaint are

very vague allegations. Accused No.1 was appointed on

17.3.2017 and subsequently he resigned during the year - 11 - 2018 and no serious allegations have been made as

against him. It is his further submission that accused

No.2 resigned on 14.1.2020. When accused No.2-

petitioner No.2 got relieved through relieving letter dated

13.3.2020, no such objections or complaints have been

alleged about misuse of his possession, on the contrary

his work has been appreciated. Only because they have

set up a competitor company and gained popularity, in

order to tarnish their name and business, the present

complaint has been filed. It is his further submission

that the basic ingredients of the alleged offence have not

been made out in the complaint. Under such

circumstances, proceeding against the petitioners-

accused No.1 to 5 is nothing, but an abuse of process of

law. It is his further submission that the complaint has

been registered as against accused Nos.1 and 2 after

they left the complainant-Company 2½ years and 2½

months later respectively. The said delay has not been

explained. It is his further submission that only to - 12 - destroy the business of the petitioners-accused vague

allegations have been made. It is his further submission

that only with vendetta to harass the accused persons

the present complaint has been filed. It is his further

submission that the complainant has approached the

High Court of Judicature at Bombay by filing original suit

seeking various reliefs. The present complaint is filed

only to agitate civil dispute through the police though the

entire matter is of a civil nature and civil transactions

have been involved. It is his further submission that

when the allegations made in the complaint do not

disclose the commission of offence, then this Court can

exercise the power under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. to quash

the proceedings. In order to substantiate the said

arguments, the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners

relied upon a decision in the case of Pratibha Vs.

Rameshwari Devi & Others , reported in 2007(12)

SCC 369. - 13 - 8. It is his further submission that when the matter

is of civil nature and if it is given a cloak of criminal

offence and when civil remedy is available, then under

such circumstances, this Court can exercise the power

under Section 482 by holding that it is abuse of process

of law. In order to substantiate the said arguments, he

relied upon a decision in the case of Paramjeet Batra

Vs. State of Uttarakhan and Others, reported in

(2013)11 SCC 673. 9. It is his further submission that if early reporting

of occurrence of information is not there and there is

delay in filing the complaint and in the absence of any

explanation for the said delay which is said to be

deliberate, it is fatal to the case of the complainant.

Under such circumstances, the Court has to quash the

proceedings. In order to substantiate the said

contention, he relied upon the decision in the case of

Kishan Singh (dead) through LRs. Vs. Gurpal Singh - 14 - and Others, reported in (2010)8 SCC 775. It is his

further submission that the complainant did not tolerate

the success of the petitioners-accused and in that light, a

mala fide complaint has been filed by the complainant. It

is his further submission that when all the rights of the

parties have been seized in the civil suit before Bombay

High Court, then under such circumstances, there is no

investigation of case by the police. What the police have

investigated is a question and that itself creates a doubt.

On these grounds, he prayed to allow the petition and to

quash the proceedings. 10. Per contra, Sri C.V.Nagesh, learned Senior

Counsel for respondent No.2-complainant has

vehemently argued and submitted that petitioners Nos.1

and 2-accused Nos.1 and 2 are the former employees

who had been entrusted with all the confidential records

and material while they were working in the complainant-

Company. Accused No.1 resigned in the year 2018, - 15 - whereas accused No.2 continued the job. They came and

joined the complainant-Company only with clandestine

action and after downloading the confidential information

illegally they got transmitted the said information to

Onsurity Technologies Private Limited wherein accused

Nos.1 to 5 who are all relatives only with an intention to

cheat the complainant-Company have constituted the

said Company and stolen the confidential information

from Acko Group. It is his further submission that the

contents of the complaint disclose the ingredients of the

offence for having stolen the confidential information

which has been acquired by them during the course of

employment and the same has been misused by cheating

the complainant-Company. It is his further submission

that they have stolen the intellectual property which is

the property of the complainant-company. Accused

Nos.1 and 2 have downloaded the confidential

information and subsequently they have deleted the data

which has been dumped in their laptops, that is a matter - 16 - which requires consideration and investigation. It is his

further submission that accused No.2 though resigned on

14.2.2020, during his notice period, he logged in the

confidential information and unauthorizedly downloaded

and transmitted the same to Onsurity Technologies

Private Limited wherein he is also one of the active

partners. It is his further submission that the official

laptop which was given to accused No.2 itself indicates

downloading of confidential information by him and

thereafter the same has been transmitted and deleted. In

order to know the said aspects, the said records have to

be retrieved by using technology which is a matter of

investigation which cannot be considered and appreciated

in commercial suit which has been filed before the

Bombay High Court. It is his further submission that the

said suit is filed only to get the stay and appointment of

Commissioner for search and seizure. When the accused

persons committed a criminal offence by conspiring with

each other, then under such circumstances, the Court - 17 - cannot interfere with such proceedings. It is his further

submission that while exercising the power under Section

482 of Cr.P.C., three conditions are to be fulfilled. The

injustice which comes to light should be of a grave, and

not of a trivial character; it should be palpable and clear

and not doubtful and there should exist no other

provision of law by which the party aggrieved could have

sought the relief. It is further submitted that if the Court

is satisfied that there is prima facie case existing against

the accused on evaluation of the material, then the Court

cannot interfere by exercising the power under Section

482 of Cr.P.C. In order to substantiate his contention, he

relied upon the decision in the case of Chilkamarthi

Venkateshwarlu and Another Vs. State of Andhra

Pradesh and Another, reported in 2019 SCC Online

SC 948. 11. It is his further submission that on perusal of

the complaint if it discloses prima facie offence alleged - 18 - against the accused the correctness or otherwise of the

allegations are to be decided only at the time of trial and

not at this stage. In order to substantiate the said

contention, he relied upon the decision in the case Kamal Shivaji Pokarnekar Vs. State of Maharashtra

and Others , reported in (2019)14 SCC 350. It is his

further submission that the power given under Section

482 of Cr.P.C. is a wider power which requires great

caution and it has to be carefully exercised by the High

Court. In order to substantiate his arguments he relied

upon the decision of this Bench in the case of Shri

A.Anup Vs. The Station House Officer, Station

Bazaar Police Station, Kalaburagi , reported in 2017

SCC Online Kar 3327. It is his further submission that

execution of the order passed by the Bombay High Court

through the Commissioner was done with great

difficulties and the conduct of the accused in execution is

also very much necessary to be considered for the

purpose of disposal of this case. It is his further - 19 - submission that already Bombay High Court has issued

injunction order and warrant of execution to execute its

order. The Commissioner has also given his report for

having committed the alleged offence by the accused

which requires investigation. On these grounds, he

prayed to dismiss the petition. 12. By supporting the arguments of the learned

Senior Counsel for respondent No.2-complainant, the

learned HCGP has submitted that if a case is having

concurrent criminal and civil liabilities, there is no bar to

initiate criminal proceedings as against the accused.

Under such circumstances, the proceedings cannot be

quashed. In order to substantiate the said contention,

he relied upon the decision in the case of Arun Bhandari

Vs. State of U.P & others, reported in 2013(2) SCC 801. It is his further submission that if there is dispute

arising out of breach of contract and the offence has also

been committed in the said transaction, criminal trial is - 20 - not barred if the allegations disclose the criminal offence. In that light, he relied upon the decision in the case of Indian Oil Corporation Vs. NEPC India Limited &

Others , reported in 2006 (6) SCC 736. On these

grounds, he prayed to dismiss the petition. 13. I have carefully and cautiously gone through

the submissions made on behalf of both the parties and

have given thoughtful consideration to the decisions

quoted by them. 14. It is the contention of the learned Senior

Counsel for the petitioners-accused Nos.1 to 5 that the

allegations made in the complaint are so vague and they

do not disclose the commission of offence so also the

basic ingredients of the offences have not been made

out. In order to substantiate his contention, he relied

upon the decision in the case of Pratibha Vs.

Rameshwari Devi & Others (cited supra), wherein at

paragraph-12, it has been observed as under:- constitute any offence or make out a case
against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first
information report and other materials, if
any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose a
cognizable offence, justifying an
investigation by police officers under Section
156(1) of the Code except under an order of
a Magistrate within the purview of Section
155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations
made in the FIR or complaint and the
evidence collected in support of the same do
not disclose the commission of any offence
and make out a case against the accused.
 (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do
not constitute a cognizable offence but
constitute only a non-cognizable offence, no
investigation is permitted by a police officer
without an order of a Magistrate as
contemplated under Section 155(2) of the
Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the
FIR or complaint are so absurd and - 23 - inherently improbable on the basis of which
 no prudent person can ever reach a just
 conclusion that there is sufficient ground for
 proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar
 engrafted in any of the provisions of the
 Code or the Act concerned (under which a
 criminal proceeding is instituted) to the
 institution and continuance of the
 proceedings and/or where there is a specific
 provision in the Code or the Act concerned,
 providing efficacious redress for the
 grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is
 manifestly attended with mala fide and/or
 where the proceeding is maliciously
 instituted with an ulterior motive for
 wreaking vengeance on the accused and
 with a view to spite him due to private and
 personal grudge." 15. It is the contention of the learned Senior

Counsel for respondent No.2-complainant that the

accused Nos.1 and 2 are former employees of the - 24 - complainant-Company and they have stolen the

confidential and secret information which was acquired

by them and they have also stolen the intellectual

property of the complainant-Company. What is the

relevancy of the contents of the complaint and FIR for

the purpose of finding out of cognizable offence, this

Court has to exercise its power and look into the

allegations made in the complaint as to whether prima

facie case has been made out by the complainant or not.

This proposition is also laid down in the case of Pratibha

Vs. Rameshwari Devi & Others (cited supra), wherein

at paragraph-22, it has been observed as under:- 16. Keeping in view the submissions made by both

the Senior Counsel and on perusal of the complaint, it

indicates that it is not in dispute that accused Nos.1

and 2 are the former employees of the complainant-

Company and subsequently they have resigned to the

said posts. They have also established a Company under

the name style "Onsurity Services Private Limited". It is

also not in dispute that accused Nos.3 and 4 are the

parents of accused No.1 and accused No.5 is the wife of

accused No.1. It is alleged in the complaint that

unauthorizedly accused No.2 has downloaded the

confidential information and has illegally disclosed and

transmitted the same to Onsurity Technologies Private - 26 - Limited. When the Google log was checked, it was seen

that accused No.2 has downloaded huge data, dumped

up key confidential information from 14.2.2020 to

24.2.2020 during his notice period after his resignation.

The laptop and other things are going to disclose the said

fact. When there are specific allegations made for having

cheated the complainant and accused Nos.1 and 2 stolen

the confidential information, then under such

circumstances, without expressing anything on merits of

the case, I am of the considered opinion that there

appears to be prima facie case made out in the complaint

in this behalf. 17. It is the contention of the learned Senior

Counsel for the petitioners that when a civil dispute is

filed before the Bombay High Court and the present

dispute is also of a civil in nature, then this Court has to

see whether a dispute which is essentially of a civil

nature is given a cloak of criminal offence. If the dispute - 27 - is essentially of a civil nature and is given a cloak of

criminal offence, then under such circumstances, the

proceedings initiated have to be quashed. In order to

support his arguments he relied upon the decision in the

case of Paramjeet Batra Vs. State of Uttarakhan and

Others (cited supra), wherein at paragraph-12, it has

been observed as under:- 18. It is his further submission that the pending

civil suit will take care of all the issues including forging,

fabricating and stealing of the said information and

continuation of criminal proceedings is abuse of process

of law. In that light, he also relied upon the very same

decision, i.e., Paramjeet Batra Vs. State of

Uttarakhan and Others (cited supra), wherein at

paragraphs-13 and 14, it has been observed as under:- 19. It is the submission of the learned Senior

Counsel for respondent No.2-complainant that when the

material produced is of both civil remedy as well as the

remedy under criminal law, then under such

circumstances, on the basis of the allegation of

criminality the criminal proceedings can also be initiated.

It is his further submission that while exercising the

power under Section 482, the Court has to be satisfied

prima facie about the existence of sufficient ground for

proceeding against accused and detailed enquiry is not

necessary. In this regard, he relied upon the decision in

the case of Chilkamarthi Venkateshwarlu and

Another Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh and Another - 31 - (cited supra), wherein at paragraphs-14 to 16 it has been

observed as under:- 20. It is his further submission that after perusal of

the prima facie material if the offence is going to be

constituted, the correctness or otherwise has to be

decided only during the course of trial and not at this

premature stage. In that light, he relied upon the

decision in the case of Kamal Shivaji Pokarnekar Vs.

State of Maharashtra and Others , (cited supra),

wherein at paragraph-9 it has been observed as under:- 21. It is the submission of the learned HCGP that if

there is concurrent civil and criminal liability, it is not a

bar to the criminal proceedings and the Court can

proceed with the said aspect. In that light, he relied

upon the decision in the case of Arun Bhandari Vs.

State of U.P & others (cited supra), wherein at

paragraphs-25 to 35 it has been observed as under:- 27. In this context we may also usefully
refer to a paragraph from All Cargo Movers
(India) (P) Ltd. v. Dhanesh Badarmal
Jain [(2007) 14 SCC 776 : (2009) 1 SCC (Cri) - 37 - 947 : AIR 2008 SC 247] : (SCC pp. 781-82,
para 16)
 "16. ... Where a civil suit is pending and the
complaint petition has been filed one year after
filing of the civil suit, we may for the purpose of
finding out as to whether the said allegations
are prima facie correct, take into consideration
the correspondences exchanged by the parties
and other admitted documents. It is one thing
to say that the court at this juncture would not
consider the defence of the accused but it is
another thing to say that for exercising the
inherent jurisdiction of this Court, it is
impermissible also to look to the admitted
documents. Criminal proceedings should not be
encouraged, when it is found to be mala fide or
otherwise an abuse of the process of the court.
Superior courts while exercising this power
should also strive to serve the ends of justice." 28. In Rajesh Bajaj v. State (NCT of
Delhi) [(1999) 3 SCC 259 : 1999 SCC (Cri) 401
: AIR 1999 SC 1216] , while dealing with a
case where the High Court had quashed an FIR,
this Court opined that the facts narrated in the - 38 - complaint petition may reveal a commercial
transaction or a money transaction, but that is
hardly a reason for holding that the offence of
cheating would elude from such a transaction.
Proceeding further, the Bench observed thus: 29. We have referred to the aforesaid
decisions in the field to highlight about the role - 39 - of the court while dealing with such issues. In
our considered opinion the present case falls in
the category which cannot be stated at this
stage to be purely civil in nature on the basis of
the admitted documents or the allegations
made in the FIR or what has come out in the
investigation or for that matter what has been
stated in the protest petition. We are disposed
to think that prima facie there is an allegation
that there was a guilty intention to induce the
complainant to part with money. We may
hasten to clarify that it is not a case where a
promise initially made could not be lived up to
subsequently. It is not a case where it could be
said that even if the allegations in entirety are
accepted, no case is made out. Needless to
emphasise, the High Court, while exercising
power under Article 226 of the Constitution or Section 482 CrPC, has to adopt a very cautious
approach. 30. In CBI v.Rav iShankar Srivastava [(2006)
7 SCC 188 : (2006) 3 SCC (Cri) 233] the Court,
after referring to Janata Dal v. H.S.
Chowdhary [(1992) 4 SCC 305 : 1993 SCC - 40 - (Cri) 36] and Raghubir Saran v. State of
Bihar [AIR 1964 SC 1 : (1964) 1 Cri LJ 1] , has
observed that the powers possessed by the
High Court under Section 482 CrPC are very
wide and the very plenitude of the power
requires great caution in its exercise. The Court
must be careful to see that its decision in
exercise of this power is based on sound
principles and such inherent powers should not
be exercised to stifle a legitimate prosecution.
This Court has further stated that it is not
proper for the High Court to analyse the case of
the complainant in the light of all probabilities
in order to determine whether a conviction
would be sustainable and on such premises
arrive at a conclusion that the proceedings are
to be quashed. It has been further pronounced
that it would be erroneous to assess the
material before it and conclude that the
complaint could not be proceeded with. The
Bench has opined that the meticulous analysis
of the case is not necessary and the complaint
has to be read as a whole and if it appears that
on consideration of the allegations in the light
of the statement made on oath of the - 41 - complainant that the ingredients of the offence
or offences are disclosed and there is no
material to show that the complaint is mala
fide, frivolous or vexatious, in that event there
would be no justification for interference by the
High Court. 31. In R. Kalyani v. Janak C. Mehta [(2009)
1 SCC 516 : (2009) 1 SCC (Cri) 567] , after
referring to the decisions
in Hamida v. Rashid [(2008) 1 SCC 474 : (2008) 1 SCC (Cri) 234] and State of
Orissa v. Saroj Kumar Sahoo [(2005) 13 SCC
540 : (2006) 2 SCC (Cri) 272] , this Court
eventually culled out the following propositions: taken to be correct in their entirety, disclosed
no cognizable offence. (2) For the said purpose the Court, save and
except in very exceptional circumstances,
would not look to any document relied upon by
the defence. (3) Such a power should be exercised very
sparingly. If the allegations made in the FIR
disclose commission of an offence, the Court
shall not go beyond the same and pass an
order in favour of the accused to hold absence
of any mens rea or actus reus. (4) If the allegation discloses a civil dispute,
the same by itself may not be a ground to hold
that the criminal proceedings should not be
allowed to continue." It is worth noting that it was observed
therein that one of the paramount duties of the
superior court is to see that a person who is
absolutely innocent is not subjected to
prosecution and humiliation on the basis of a
false and wholly untenable complaint. 32. Recently in Gian Singh v. State of
Punjab [(2012) 10 SCC 303 : (2012) 4 SCC - 43 - (Civ) 1188 : (2013) 1 SCC (Cri) 160 : (2012) 2
SCC (L&S) 988] a three-Judge Bench has
observed that: (SCC pp. 339-40, para 55)
 "55. In the very nature of its constitution, it
is the judicial obligation of the High Court to
undo a wrong in course of administration of
justice or to prevent continuation of
unnecessary judicial process. This is founded
on the legal maxim quando lex aliquid alicui
concedit, conceditur et id sine qua res ipsa esse
non potest. The full import of which is
whenever anything is authorised, and especially
if, as a matter of duty, required to be done by
law, it is found impossible to do that thing
unless something else not authorised in
express terms be also done, may also be done,
then that something else will be supplied by
necessary intendment. Ex debito justitiae is
inbuilt in such exercise; the whole idea is to do
real, complete and substantial justice for which
it exists. The power possessed by the High
Court under Section 482 of the Code is of wide
amplitude but requires exercise with great
caution and circumspection." - 44 - 33. Applying the aforesaid parameters we
have no hesitation in coming to hold that
neither the FIR nor the protest petition was
mala fide, frivolous or vexatious. It is also not a
case where there is no substance in the
complaint. The manner in which the
investigation was conducted by the officer who
eventually filed the final report and the transfer
of the investigation earlier to another officer
who had almost completed the investigation
and the entire case diary which has been
adverted to in detail in the protest petition
prima facie makes out a case against the
husband and the wife regarding collusion and
the intention to cheat from the very beginning,
inducing the appellant to hand over a huge sum
of money to both of them. Their conduct of not
stating so many aspects, namely, the power of
attorney executed by the original owner, the
will and also the sale effected by the wife in the
name of Monika Singh on 28-7-2008 cannot be
brushed aside at this stage. 34. Therefore, we are disposed to think that
the High Court, while exercising the - 45 - extraordinary jurisdiction, had not proceeded
on the sound principles of law for quashment of
order taking cognizance. The High Court has
been guided by the non-existence of privity of
contract and without appreciating the factual
scenario has observed that the wife was merely
present. Be it noted, if the wife had nothing to
do with any of the transactions with the original
owner and was not aware of the things,
possibly the view of the High Court could have
gained acceptation, but when the wife had the
power of attorney in her favour and was aware
of execution of the will, had accepted the
money along with her husband from the
complainant, it is extremely difficult to say that
an innocent person is dragged to face a
vexatious litigation or humiliation. The entire
conduct of Respondents 2 and 3 would show
that a prima facie case is made out and
allegations are there on record in this regard
that they had the intention to cheat from the
stage of negotiation. That being the position,
the decision in Hridaya Ranjan Prasad
Verma [(2000) 4 SCC 168 : 2000 SCC (Cri)
786 : AIR 2000 SC 2341] which is commended - 46 - to us by Mr Sharma, learned Senior Counsel, to
 which we have adverted to earlier, does not
 really assist the respondents and we say so
 after making the factual analysis in detail. 35. In view of our aforesaid analysis we
 allow the appeal, set aside the order [Criminal
 Miscellaneous WP No. 69 of 2011, order dated
 29-1-2011 (All)] passed by the High Court and
 direct the Magistrate to proceed in accordance
 with law. However, we may clarify that we may
 not be understood to have expressed any
 opinion on the merits of the case one way or
 the other and our observations must be
 construed as limited to the order taking
 cognizance and nothing more than that. The
 learned Magistrate shall decide the case on its
 own merits without being influenced by any of
 our observations as the same have been made
 only for the purpose of holding that the order of
 cognizance is prima facie valid and did not
 warrant interference by the High Court." 22. It is trite law that in exercise of the power by

the High Court under Section 482 of Cr.P.C., it cannot - 47 - undertake a detailed examination of the facts contained

in FIR by acting as an appellate Court and draw its

conclusion. It is only when no prima facie cognizable

case is made out on its mere reading, then under such

circumstances, it can exercise its power, otherwise it

cannot quash the proceedings. In that light, I want to

rely upon the decision in the case of Chirag M. Pathak

& Others Vs. Dollyben Kantilal patel & Others,

reported in (2018)1 SCC 330, wherein at paragraphs-

23, 24 and 31 it has been observed as under:- "23. The High Court, in exercise of its powers
 under Section 482 of the Code, cannot
 undertake a detailed examination of the facts
 contained in the FIRs by acting as an appellate
 court and draw its own conclusion. It is more so
 when investigation in other societies is not yet
 complete. 24. In our considered opinion, it is only when
 on reading the FIR, a sheer absurdity in the
 allegations is noticed and when no prima facie - 48 - cognizable case is made out on its mere reading
due to absurdity in the allegations or when facts
disclose prima facie cognizable case and also
disclose remarkable identity between the two
FIRs as if the first FIR is filed second time with
no change in allegations then the court may, in
appropriate case, consider it proper to quash the
second FIR. Such is not the case here. 25. xxx xxx xxx 26. xxx xxx xxx 27. xxx xxx xxx 28. xxx xxx xxx 29. xxx xxx xxx 30. xxx xxx xxx 31. In view of the foregoing discussion, we
cannot concur with the reasoning and the
conclusion arrived at by the High Court in the
impugned judgment [Kantilal Ambalal
Patel v.State of Gujarat, 2013 SCC OnLine Guj
8799] . The appeals thus succeed and are
allowed. The impugned judgment [ Kantilal
Ambalal Patel v. State of Gujarat , 2013 SCC
OnLine Guj 8799] is set aside." - 49 - 23. It is also trite law that if there are serious

triable allegations in the complaint, it is a matter to be

investigated into. Under such circumstances, the Court

cannot exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction for quashing

the proceedings. In that light, I want to rely upon the

decision in the case of Pramod Suryabhan Pawar Vs.

State of Maharashtra & Another , reported in (2019)

9 SCC 608, wherein at paragraphs-6 to 8 it has been

observed as under:- Inherent power under Section 482 CrPC can be
exercised: 24. Inherent powers under Section 482 CrPC
though wide have to be exercised sparingly,
carefully and with great caution and only when - 51 - exercise is justified by the tests specifically laid
down in this section itself. Authority of the court
exists for the advancement of justice. If any
abuse of the process leading to injustice is
brought to the notice of the court, then the court
would be justified in preventing injustice by
invoking inherent powers in absence of specific
provisions in the statute." 7. Given the varied nature of cases that come
before the High Courts, any strict test as to
when the court's extraordinary powers can be
exercised is likely to tie the court's hands in the
face of future injustices. This Court in State of
Haryana v. Bhajan Lal [State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992
SCC (Cri) 426] conducted a detailed study of the
situations where the court may exercise its
extraordinary jurisdiction and laid down a list of
illustrative examples of where quashing may be
appropriate. It is not necessary to discuss all the
examples, but a few bear relevance to the
present case. The Court in Bhajan Lal [State of
Haryana v.Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : (2) Where the allegations in the first
information report and other materials, if any,
accompanying the FIR do not disclose a
cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by
police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code
except under an order of a Magistrate within the
purview of Section 155(2). ***
 (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly
attended with mala fide and/or where the
proceeding is maliciously instituted with an
ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the
accused and with a view to spite him due to
private and personal grudge." 8. In deciding whether to exercise its
jurisdiction under Section 482, the Court does - 53 - not adjudicate upon the veracity of the facts
 alleged or enter into an appreciation of
 competing evidence presented. The limited
 question is whether on the face of the FIR, the
 allegations constitute a cognizable offence. As
 this Court noted in Dhruvaram Murlidhar
 Sonar v. State of Maharashtra [Dhruvaram
 Murlidhar Sonar v. State of Maharashtra, (2019)
 18 SCC 191 : 2018 SCC OnLine SC 3100] ,
 (Dhruvaram Sonar): (SCC para 13)
 "13. It is clear that for quashing the
 proceedings, meticulous analysis of factum of
 taking cognizance of an offence by the
 Magistrate is not called for. Appreciation of
 evidence is also not permissible in exercise of
 inherent powers. If the allegations set out in the
 complaint do not constitute the offence of which
 cognizance has been taken, it is open to the High
 Court to quash the same in exercise of its
 inherent powers." 24. I want to rely upon one more decision of the

Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of XYZ Vs. State of

Gujarat & Another , reported in (2019) 10 SCC 337, - 54 - wherein at paragraphs-14 and 16 it has been observed

as under:- It is made clear that we have not expressed any
 opinion on the merits of the complaint, and it is
 open to the investigating agency and competent
 court, to proceed in accordance with law." 25. It is also trite law that minute consideration of

the evidence and the defence put forth by the parties has - 57 - to be tested after appreciating the evidence during the

trial and at the premature stage, the Court cannot test

the defence on the basis of the allegations made in the

complaint. In that light, I want to rely upon the decision

in the case of Central Bureau of Investigation Vs.

Arvind Khanna , reported in (2019)10 SCC 686,

wherein at paragraphs-17 and 18 it has been observed

as under:- defence put forth by the respondent, led us to
 a conclusion that the High Court has exceeded
 its power, while exercising its inherent
 jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC. 18. In our view, the assessment made by the
 High Court at this stage, when the matter has
 been taken cognizance of by the competent
 court, is completely incorrect and uncalled for." 26. I also want to rely upon the decision in the

case of Dr.Lakshman Vs. State of Karnataka &

Others , reported in (2019)9 SCC 677, wherein at

paragraph-8, it has been observed as under:- 27. It is not the duty of the Court to see only on the

face of reading of the complaint and FIR whether the

allegations constitute cognizable offence or not and it

should not adjudicate upon the veracity of offence

alleged and it cannot appreciate the other aspects. In

that light, I want to rely upon paragraphs-6 to 8 of the - 62 - decision in the case of Pramod Suryabhan Pawar Vs.

State of Maharashtra & Another (cited supra), which

are already extracted above. 28. Keeping in view ratio laid down in the aforesaid

decisions and on perusal of the records, it indicates that

there is prima facie material as against the petitioners-

accused Nos.1 to 5 and that is a matter which requires to

be investigated into by the Investigating Agency. It is

well settled proposition of law that remedy under criminal

law is not barred if the allegations disclose a criminal

offence. In that light, I want to rely upon the decision in

the case of Indian Oil Corporation Vs. NEPC India

Limited & Others , wherein at paragraphs-11 and 12 it

has been observed as under:- Re: Point (i) 12. The principles relating to exercise of
jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure to quash complaints and
criminal proceedings have been stated and
reiterated by this Court in several decisions. To
mention a few--Madhavrao Jiwajirao Scindia v.
Sambhajirao Chandrojirao Angre [(1988) 1 SCC
692 : 1988 SCC (Cri) 234] , State of Haryana
v. Bhajan Lal [1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992
SCC (Cri) 426] , Rupan Deol Bajaj v. Kanwar
Pal Singh Gill [(1995) 6 SCC 194 : 1995 SCC
(Cri) 1059] , Central Bureau of Investigation v. - 64 - Duncans Agro Industries Ltd. [(1996) 5 SCC
591 : 1996 SCC (Cri) 1045] , State of Bihar v.
Rajendra Agrawalla [(1996) 8 SCC 164 : 1996
SCC (Cri) 628] , Rajesh Bajaj v. State NCT of
Delhi [(1999) 3 SCC 259 : 1999 SCC (Cri) 401]
, Medchl Chemicals & Pharma (P) Ltd. v.
Biological E. Ltd. [(2000) 3 SCC 269 : 2000
SCC (Cri) 615] , Hridaya Ranjan Prasad Verma
v. State of Bihar [(2000) 4 SCC 168 : 2000
SCC (Cri) 786] , M. Krishnan v. Vijay Singh
[(2001) 8 SCC 645 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 19] and
Zandu Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. v. Mohd.
Sharaful Haque [(2005) 1 SCC 122 : 2005 SCC
(Cri) 283] . The principles, relevant to our
purpose are: For this purpose, the complaint has to be
examined as a whole, but without examining - 65 - the merits of the allegations. Neither a detailed
inquiry nor a meticulous analysis of the
material nor an assessment of the reliability or
genuineness of the allegations in the complaint,
is warranted while examining prayer for
quashing of a complaint. (ii) A complaint may also be quashed where it
is a clear abuse of the process of the court, as
when the criminal proceeding is found to have
been initiated with mala fides/malice for
wreaking vengeance or to cause harm, or
where the allegations are absurd and inherently
improbable. (iii) The power to quash shall not, however,
be used to stifle or scuttle a legitimate
prosecution. The power should be used
sparingly and with abundant caution. (iv) The complaint is not required to verbatim
reproduce the legal ingredients of the offence
alleged. If the necessary factual foundation is
laid in the complaint, merely on the ground
that a few ingredients have not been stated in
detail, the proceedings should not be quashed. - 66 - Quashing of the complaint is warranted only
 where the complaint is so bereft of even the
 basic facts which are absolutely necessary for
 making out the offence. (v) A given set of facts may make out: (a)
 purely a civil wrong; or (b) purely a criminal
 offence; or (c) a civil wrong as also a criminal
 offence. A commercial transaction or a
 contractual dispute, apart from furnishing a
 cause of action for seeking remedy in civil law,
 may also involve a criminal offence. As the
 nature and scope of a civil proceeding are
 different from a criminal proceeding, the mere
 fact that the complaint relates to a commercial
 transaction or breach of contract, for which a
 civil remedy is available or has been availed, is
 not by itself a ground to quash the criminal
 proceedings. The test is whether the allegations
 in the complaint disclose a criminal offence or
 not." 29. Keeping in view the law laid down by the

Hon'ble Apex Court and on perusal of the facts on hand, - 67 - though it indicates that civil suit has been filed before the

Bombay High Court wherein injunction has been granted

and a Commissioner has also been appointed, when it is

specifically alleged that intellectual property has been

stolen by the petitioners and the same has been made

use of for the purpose of their Company "Onsurity

Technologies Private Limited", a fair investigation

requires to be done in this behalf. When both the

remedies are available, one under the civil and another

under the criminal law and allegations constitute an

offence, then under such circumstances, it is not a case

to quash the proceedings. It is trite law that on plain

reading of the contents of the complaint, if no case is

made out and the investigation and trial are not going to

serve any purpose, then under such circumstances, the

Court can quash the proceedings. The Court can also

quash the proceedings if there is an abuse of process of

law. In that light, if the entire facts and material are

perused, there is a prima facie material as against the - 68 - petitioners-accused for having committed the offence.

There is no abuse of process of law to show that civil

dispute has been given a cloak of criminal offence. It

appears that no mala fides have been alleged except

saying that only with an intention to tarnish the success

of the Company established by the petitioners, the

complaint has been filed. Taking into consideration of the aforesaid facts and

circumstances of the case and the proposition of law, I

am of the considered opinion that the petitioners-accused

have not made out any grounds to quash the

proceedings. Hence, petition being devoid of merits is

liable to be dismissed and accordingly, the same stands

dismissed. Sd/- JUDGE

*ck/-