Date : 05.06.2025 1. Heard Mr. T. Hussain, the learned counsel for the petitioner. Also heard
Mr. K. Baishya, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State
respondent. 2. The application under Section 482 of BNSS, 2023, has been filed by the
 Page No.# 2/4

petitioner, namely, Dharmeswar Roy, who is appending his arrest in connection
with Panbazar Police Station Case No. 320/2024 registered under Sections
303(2)/318(4) of the BNS, 2023. 3. The gist of accusation in this case is that on 23.10.2024 one Shri
Anandi Thakur had lodged an FIR before the Officer-in-Charge of the Panbazar
Police Station, inter-alia, alleging that the petitioner has frauded him by falsely
promising him to sale his car at a consideration amount of Rs. 1,00,000/- 4. It is stated in the FIR that the informant had paid Rs. 1,00,000/- via
Google pay to the petitioner, however, when the informant went to meet the
petitioner on 23.10.2024 at CJM Court premises and paid an additional amount
of Rs. 2.5 lakh. Neither the money was returned back and nor the car was
handed over and the petitioner left the place duping the informant. 5. The learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the petitioner
is doing the business in dealing with second hand vehicle and in this regard, he
had received Rs. 1,00,000/- from the informant for sale of a second hand car. 6. However, he submits that there was some dispute regarding the terms
and conditions of the sale, and therefore, the vehicle was not handed over. 7. He submits that the nature of dispute between the parties is
predominantly of civil in nature and the FIR has been lodged again the
petitioner only to pressurize him. He further submits that the petitioner is ready
to cooperate in the investigation. 8. On the other hand, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor has
produced the case diary of Panbazar Police Station Case No. 320/2024 and
submits that there are sufficient incriminating materials against the petitioner in
the case diary. 9. He further submits that during the enquiry, the Investigating Officer
 Page No.# 3/4

also found that several cases has been registered against the petitioner in
connection with similar nature of cases of cheating and fraud in various police
stations and therefore, he prays for rejecting the prayer for bail. 10. I have considered the submissions made by the learned counsel for both
sides. 11. On perusal of the FIR, it appears that there was an agreement between
the petitioner and the informant regarding the sale of a car at the total
consideration amount of Rs. 3,50,000/-. 12. It also appears that the nature of dispute between the parties primarily
appears to be a civil nature, however, this in itself may not rule out the
ingredients of a criminal case in this case. 13. The investigation would reveal the true facts, however considering the
nature of the case as well as considering the fact that the petitioner ready to
cooperate in the investigation, his custodial interrogation may not be necessary
for fair completion of the investigation. 14. Hence, the above named petitioner is directed to appear before the
Investigating Officer of Panbazar Police Station Case No. 320/2024 within a
period of seven days from the date of this order and cooperate in the
investigation. If he does so within the stipulated period of time, in the event of
his arrest in connection with the above mentioned case, he shall be allowed to
go on interim bail Rs. 30,000/- (Rupees Thirty Thousand only) with one surety
of like amount subject to the satisfaction of the arresting authority with the
following conditions:- 15. This anticipatory bail application is accordingly, disposed of. 16. Send back the case diary. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant