MANMOHAN, J: 2. On 18th March, 2019, with consent of the parties, present two suits,
being Koninklijke Philips N.V. &Anr. vs Amitkumar Kantilal Jain &Ors.,
CS (COMM ) 1170/2016 and Koninklijke Philips N.V. & Anr. vs Amaze
Stores &Ors., CS (COMM) 737/2016, were consolidated. 3. Additionally, on the said date, this Court passed consensual decrees
in both the suits against the contesting Defendants, i.e. Amitkumar Kantilal
Jain, Nova Homes Appliances Pvt. Ltd., Nova Marketing Group, Amaze
Stores, Mr. Hitesh Lunawath, Mr. Raju Lunawath, Million Lights and Mr.
Ramesh Chand. The relevant portion of the order dated 18th March, 2019 is
reproduced hereinbelow:- 4. Presently, the two suits survive against the remaining Defendants
who have been identified as the primary sources of infringing products in
India. The particulars of these Defendants in the two proceedings are as
follows:- 5. It is pertinent to mention that injunction orders had been passed
against Defendant-Nova Manufacturing Industries Limited (NOVA) in
both suits, vide orders dated 20th October, 2015 and 03rd June, 2016 by the
learned Predecessor of this Court. The right to file the written statement of
M/s Nova Manufacturing Industries Limited (NOVA) in CS(COMM)
737/2016 was closed vide order dated 18th April, 2018 and it was
proceeded ex parte in FAO(OS) 578/2015 vide order dated 28th January,
2016. 6. Since the Defendants-M/s Badri Electro Supply and Trading
Company (BESTCO) LLC. and M/s Omni Exim Private Limited
voluntarily did not enter appearance in both the proceedings they were
proceeded ex parte vide orders dated 09th January, 2019 and 18th March,
2019. M/s Nova Manufacturing Industries Limited (NOVA) is also
proceeded ex parte. 7. On 25th March, 2019, this Court allowed the Plaintiffs' applications
to amend its claim under Order VI Rule 17, Code of Civil Procedure , 1908,
(hereinafter referred to as " CPC ") with respect to the surviving Defendants
and its claims for damages. 8. On the aforesaid date, this Court also took Plaintiffs' evidence by
way of affidavit(s) on record. ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFFS 9. Mr. Pravin Anand, learned counsel for the Plaintiffs advanced the
following contentions and submissions:- IV. These Advanced Beard Trimmer range of products is sold along with
 product literature containing artistic and literary work, the copyright
 of which subsists with the Plaintiffs. The packaging for the
 Plaintiffs' beard trimmer series was designed by one Mr. M.S.
 Sutton, who was an erstwhile employee of a group company of the
 Plaintiffs in Netherlands and was subsequently transferred to it by
 virtue of a deed of assignment. V. The literary work, artistic work and the photographs in the Plaintiffs'
 product literature and promotional material and packaging fall within
 the meaning of Sections 2(c) , 2(o) and 2(s) of the Copyright Act,
 1957 respectively. By virtue of Sections 13 and 14 of the Copyright
 Act, 1957, Plaintiffs are entitled to the exclusive rights in the
 copyright vested in the literary work, artistic work, etc. as well as the
 packaging of the product, which has been developed and sold by the
 Plaintiffs. VI. The Plaintiffs have been granted and have since been enjoying
 protection over the design of the beard trimmer forming part of its
 design registration No. 253140 dated April 12, 2013 that is valid and
 subsisting. VII. The Defendants are engaging in the manufacture, advertisement,
 export, import etc. of beard trimmers under the trademark NOVA. The Plaintiffs are aggrieved with the fact that the Defendants'
 trimmers are an imitation of the shape and configuration of the beard
 trimmers for which the Plaintiffs enjoy the abovementioned design
 registration. VIII. Besides gaining customers on account of the fact that the
 Defendants' trimmers closely resemble the Plaintiffs' trimmers; the
 Defendants also solicit customers by adopting a packaging which is
 deceptively similar to the packaging of the Plaintiffs' trimmers.
 IX. The Defendants are members of a systematic, international criminal
 syndicate and are reaping profits at every stage at which the
 Defendants commercialize their beard trimmers. This is evident from
 the following graphical representation: dress of the Plaintiffs' products, as well as infringement of copyright.
 The Defendants' actions were so unabashed that they imitated each
 and every word on the Plaintiffs' product-description. This resulted
 in the advertisements of the Defendants' products stating that they
 were "Philips' trimmers". (ii) CS (COMM) 737 of 2016 - These proceedings have been initiated
 alleging piracy of registered design as vested in the Plaintiffs' beard
 trimmers. XVII. The Defendants have slavishly copied the photograph of the model,
 the copyright of which is owned by the Plaintiffs and have merely
 replaced the Plaintiffs' beard trimmer with the Defendants' hair
 trimmer. The extent of the Defendants' imitation is evident from the
 fact that the product description which accompanies the Plaintiffs'
 beard trimmer series also has the Plaintiffs' registered trademark
 PHILIPS mentioned in the product literature. This fraudulent
 imitation is evidenced by the following: with the words "Face
 Style" in orange. in orange . XX. These comparison charts confirm Defendants mala fide intention to
 piggy back upon the immense goodwill and reputation vested in the
 Plaintiffs' advanced beard trimmer range of products. The
 Defendants have commercialized their infringing trimmers under a
 deceptively similar trade-dress under model numbers NHT 1071,
 NHT 1072 and NHT 1085. XXI. The reproduction of artistic and literary work, photographic work
 and the use of a deceptively similar trade-dress in relation to the
 same product, i.e. beard trimmers, is bound to create a mistaken
 impression in the minds of consumers that: XXIX. Ex PW 1/4 reflects the sale of infringing trimmers between
 M/s Nova Manufacturing Industries Limited (NOVA) and M/s Omni
 Exim Private Limited. This document evidences the following facts: (Indian Rupees One Crore, Seventy Four Lakh, Ninety Five
 Thousand, Six Hundred and Thirty) (v) Import value of each infringing trimmer = Rs.159/- XXX. In other words, M/s Omni Exim Private Limited purchases one
 individual trimmer for Rs.159/- from M/s Nova Manufacturing
 Industries Limited. XXXI. The affidavit of Mr. Pankaj Pahuja clearly evidences that M/s Omni
 Exim Private Limited (amongst others) used to further resell CS(COMM) 737/2016 & CS(COMM) 1170/2016 Page 24 of 48 infringing trimmers to retailers, like Million Lights, i.e. the previous
 contesting Defendants in the present suits. XXXII. Ex PW 1/5 (colly) which contains responses by previous defendants
 to interrogatories of the Plaintiffs, states the following in clear terms: XXXVI. This amount can be multiplied by five as the said Defendants have
 been importing products at least for the past five years, since there is
 a categorical admission by erstwhile Defendants that infringing
 products manufactured by M/s Nova Manufacturing Industries
 Limited (NOVA) were being imported and re-sold into India since
 2013 at least. This admission, contained in Ex PW 1/5 is reproduced
 herein for ease of reference: XL. Thus the damages payable by M/s Omni Exim Private Limited are
 Rs.69,96,000/-and those paid jointly and severally by M/s Badri
 Electro Supply and Trading Company (BESTCO) LLC. and M/s CS(COMM) 737/2016 & CS(COMM) 1170/2016 Page 27 of 48 Nova Manufacturing Industries Limited (NOVA) are to the tune of
 Rs.1,45,75,000/-. XLI. Whereas, insofar as damages qua piracy of design of the Plaintiffs is
 concerned, it can be safely assumed that: Therefore, the damages payable to the Plaintiffs can be calculated
 accordingly. XLII. Additionally, the Defendants are liable to compensate the Plaintiffs
 with aggravated damages on account of the extreme mala fide actions
 and the wrongful conduct of the Defendants. The
 actual/compensatory damages are disproportionately dwarf in
 comparison to the actual amount recoverable by the Plaintiffs. XLIII. The principles governing proof of actual damages and aggravated
 damages, punitive damages in intellectual property disputes are
 enshrined in the decision of the Division Bench of this Court in Hindustan Unilever Limited v. Reckitt Benckiser India Limited ,
 2014 (57) PTC 495 [Del] [DB]. The relevant extract from the
 judgment is reproduced herein below: 10. Having heard the learned counsel for the Plaintiffs and having
perused the ex parte evidence led by the Plaintiffs as well as the documents
placed on record, this Court is of the opinion that the Plaintiffs have proved
the facts stated in the plaint in relation to their claims for permanent
injunction as well as damages payable by the Defendants. 11. In arriving at this conclusion, this Court has taken into consideration
the fact that the Defendants chose not to appear before this Court despite
being duly served with summons. In fact, M/s. Badri Electro Supply and CS(COMM) 737/2016 & CS(COMM) 1170/2016 Page 29 of 48 Trading Company (BESTCO) LLC. refused to accept service of the
summons as is clearly evident from the affidavit of service filed by the
Plaintiffs. Consequently, the claims in the plaint have gone unrebutted. 12. It is settled law that this Court can pass a judgment against the
Defendants on the basis of the contentions made against them by the
Plaintiffs in the plaint alone. The Supreme Court in C.N. Ramappa Gowda
v. C.C. Chandregowda , (2012) 5 SCC 265 has held, ―....if the Court is
clearly of the view that the plaintiff's case even without any evidence is
prima facie unimpeachable and the defendant's approach is clearly a
dilatory tactic to delay the passing of a decree, it would be justified in
appropriate cases to pass even an uncontested decree‖. 13. Upon comparing the Defendants' impugned products with the
registration granted to the Plaintiffs in relation to their unique and aesthetic
shape and configuration, this Court is of the view that the beard trimmers
of the Defendants very closely resemble these aesthetics. In fact, the
Defendants' trimmers seem to have imitated the registered design of the
Plaintiffs bearing No.253140 in all respects. 14. This Court is further of the opinion that the Defendants with mala
fide intent have deliberately imitated the shape and configuration of the
Plaintiffs' beard trimmers under the QT 4000 Series as the Defendants
operate in the same industry as the Plaintiffs, i.e. the provision of consumer
care products. 15. Since the Defendants have carried out their activities without any
authorization being granted by the Plaintiffs, this Court is satisfied that the
Plaintiffs have proved that the Defendants' activities constitute piracy of CS(COMM) 737/2016 & CS(COMM) 1170/2016 Page 30 of 48 the sole and exclusive, statutory rights vested in the Plaintiffs' registered
design No.253140 under Section 22 of the Designs Act, 2000. 16. Consequently, the Plaintiffs are held entitled to a decree of
permanent injunction against the Defendants restraining infringement of
registered design as prayed for in paragraph 49(i) of CS(COMM)
737/2016. DEFENDANTS' UNAUTHORISED AND BRAZEN REPRODUCTION OF
THE PLAINTIFFS' LITERARY, ARTISTIC WORK AS WELL AS
PACKAGING AND TRADE DRESS AMOUNTS TO INFRINGEMENT OF
COPYRIGHT IN TERMS OF SECTION 51 OF THE COPYRIGHT ACT,
1957. CONSEQUENTLY, THE PLAINTIFFS ARE HELD ENTITLED TO
A DECREE OF PERMANENT INJUNCTION RESTRAINING
INFRINGEMENT OF COPYRIGHT, PASSING OFF AND UNFAIR
COMPETITION IN TERMS OF PARAGRAPH 50(i) OF THE PLAINT IN
CS(COMM) 1160/2016. 17. From a perusal of the pleadings and evidence on record, this Court is
of the view that the Defendants are also liable for violating the statutory
and common law rights of the Plaintiffs on multiple counts. Without
repeating the evidence highlighted by the learned counsel for Plaintiffs, this
Court concludes as under:- 18. This Court is satisfied with the Plaintiffs' contention that the literary
work, artistic work and the photographs in the Plaintiffs' product literature
and promotional material and packaging fall within the meaning of Sections 2(c) , 2(o) and 2(s) of the Copyright Act, 1957 respectively and
that the Plaintiffs are the owners of the copyright vested therein. 19. Consequently, the Plaintiffs are entitled to sole and exclusive rights
to reproduce the said works in terms of Sections 13 and 14 of the Copyright
Act, 1957. 20. The Defendants' unauthorised and brazen reproduction of the
Plaintiffs' literary and artistic work also amounts to infringement of
copyright in terms of Section 51 of the Copyright Act, 1957. 21. This Court is of the view that the trade dress of a particular product
serves the same function as a trade mark, i.e. identifying goods and services
of a particular entity as emanating from it. Customers have an intuitive
instinct to select goods by the design, color, get-up, packaging etc. CS(COMM) 737/2016 & CS(COMM) 1170/2016 Page 32 of 48 22. Upon comparing the packaging of the Defendants' products with that
of the Plaintiffs, it becomes clear that they are deceptively similar to one
another. 23. This Court also takes cognizance of the comparison charts produced
by the Plaintiffs as well as the fact that consumer electronic goods are sold
over common platforms on the internet and in brick-and-mortar stores and
consumers are bound to be confused upon seeing the packaging of the
Defendants and they are bound to mistake them as emanating from the
Plaintiffs. 24. This Court is satisfied that the Plaintiffs have successfully
established that the Defendants' activities are in clear violation of the
common law rights vested in the packaging of the Plaintiffs' beard
trimmers. Consequently, the Plaintiffs are held entitled to a decree of
permanent injunction restraining infringement of copyright, passing off and
unfair competition in terms of paragraph 50(i) of the plaint in CS(COMM)
1160/2016. PLAINTIFFS ARE ENTITLED TO COMPENSATORY DAMAGES 25. A Coordinate Bench of this Court in M/s. Inter Ikea Systems B.V. &
Anr. v. Sham Murari & Ors. , 2018 SCC OnLine Del 11221 has awarded
compensatory damages in favour of the Plaintiffs, after considering the
principles enshrined in Hindustan Unilever (supra) in the following terms:- Half of the said sum would be paid to the Plaintiff and the other
 half shall be deposited in favour of the ‗Controller General of
 Patents, Designs and Trade marks'. The amount of Rs. 5 lakhs
 shall be retained in a fund by the Controller General and shall be
 utilised for providing legal assistance for those trade mark
 applicants and patent applicants who require legal aid or
 assistance for paying official fees or other fees. 26. The suit is thus decreed for damages of Rs. 15,00,000/- and
 costs of Rs. 10,00,000/-. Out of the cost of Rs. 10,00,000/-, Rs.
 5,00,000/- would be payable to the Plaintiffs. Remaining amount
 of Rs. 5,00,000/- shall be deposited with the Controller General of
 Patents, Designs and Trademarks. Thus the Plaintiffs are entitled
 to a sum of Rs. 20,00,000/- towards general damages and costs.‖ 26. This Court is satisfied with the evidence led by the Plaintiffs and the
arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the Plaintiffs that a
conservative margin of profit of 20% can be assumed in the present suits
while assessing the actual damages payable by the Defendants. 27. As regards the compensatory damages payable qua piracy of
registered design, though Mr. Anand submitted that they should be
computed after making some realistic assumptions, this Court is of the
view that as the compensatory damages payable in relation to violation of
trade-dress and copyright have already been computed by the Plaintiffs, it
is not necessary to go into a separate computation of damages for the
violation of rights vested in the Plaintiffs' registered design. 28. As the Defendants have wilfully and repeatedly infringed the
Plaintiffs' rights as vested in their copyright, trade dress and design, the
Plaintiffs are entitled to an award of compensatory damages to the extent of
Rs.69,96,000/- payable by M/s Omni Exim Private Limited and
Rs.1,45,75,000/- which is to be paid jointly and severally by M/s Nova
Manufacturing Industries Limited (NOVA) and M/s Badri Electro Supply
and Trading Company (BESTCO) LLC. PLAINTIFFS ARE ALSO ENTITLED TO AGGRAVATED/EXEMPLARY
DAMAGES 29. This Court is of the opinion that the degree of misconduct by
Defendants in a civil suit is often determinative of the nature of relief to be
granted by a Court to the Plaintiffs. The law is well-settled that the degree
of mala fide conduct has a direct impact on the quantum and nature of
damages that could be awarded in addition to a claim for actual /
compensatory damages. 30. The Hindustan Unilever Limited (supra) judgment relied upon by
learned counsel for Plaintiffs with regard to punitive and aggravated
damages in turn relies on the decisions of the House of Lords in Rookes v.
Barnard, [1964] 1 All ER 367 and Cassell & Co. Ltd. v. Broome, 1972 AC
1027 as is apparent from the following extract reproduced hereinbelow:- 31. The House of Lords in Rookes v. Barnard (supra) defines three
categories of cases in which punitive/exemplary damages might be
awarded as under:- 32. The second category of cases enshrined in Rookes (supra) relates to
those cases where the Defendant calculates a net amount of profit that it
would have earned, even after being imposed with an award of damages by CS(COMM) 737/2016 & CS(COMM) 1170/2016 Page 37 of 48 the Court. The said decision of the House of Lords in Rookes (supra)
further sheds light on the circumstances which justify the award of
damages in cases which fall in the second category, i.e. the category
specified in (b) above in the following terms:- 33. Rookes v. Barnard (supra) also stipulates that three conditions need
to be satisfied before an award for aggravated or exemplary damages is
granted. The relevant principles propounded by the House of Lords are: 34. The present cases clearly satisfy all these conditions, as is evident
from the following: 35. Rookes v. Barnard (supra) specifically states that the award of
aggravated damages is justified when the Court finds the conduct of the
Defendant to be extremely mala fide and wanton. The relevant extract is
reproduced hereinbelow: 36. Given the facts of the present cases, the injury caused to the
Plaintiffs has been aggravated by malice on part of the Defendants. In the
judgment of Cassell & Company Limited (supra), it has been held as
under:- 37. The case clearly holds that that such damages are not to be added as
separate components. Instead, they should be awarded in substitution, if the
Court is of the opinion that the mala fides of the Defendants far exceed (in CS(COMM) 737/2016 & CS(COMM) 1170/2016 Page 42 of 48 proportion) the quantum of actual damages that the Plaintiff has established
against them. This critical principle on the award of damages is also spelt
out in Cassell (supra), when it analyzed the judgment in Rookes (supra) in
the following manner:- 38. Accordingly, the question which was left open in Rookes (supra) was
closed in Cassell (supra) as regards the manner in which aggravated or
punitive damages are to be awarded. 39. Consequently, though in assessing the aggravated damages which the
Defendants should pay, the total figure awarded should be in substitution
for and not in addition to the smaller figure, yet the rounded total sum shall
have to be calculated by adding an additional amount to the compensatory
damages. 40. Keeping in view the aforesaid, this Court is of the view that the rule
of thumb that should be followed while granting damages can be
summarised in a chart as under:- Repeated knowing infringer Injunction + Costs + Partial (iii) which causes minor impact damages
 to the Plaintiff

 Injunction + Costs +
 Repeated knowing infringer Compensatory damages. 41. It is clarified that the above chart is illustrative and is not to be read
as a statutory provision. The Courts are free to deviate from the same for
good reason. 42. In the present suits, the activities of the Defendants warrant the
payment of aggravated damages in favour of the Plaintiffs. Not only is
M/s Nova Manufacturing Industries Limited (NOVA), a subsidiary of
M/s Badri Electro Supply and Trading Company (BESTCO) LLC., in
contempt of the injunction order, but the said Defendants have also
deliberately changed their modus operandi and routed the impugned
products through M/s Omni Exim Private Limited. In fact, M/s Omni Exim
Private Limited's activities furthered the contemptuous acts of M/s Badri
Electro Supply and Trading Company (BESTCO) LLC. as well as
M/s Nova Manufacturing Industries Limited (NOVA). The mala fide
actions of the Defendants prove that they fall in the last category in the
chart hereinabove, and that compensatory damage is inadequate to punish
the Defendants for their outrageous conduct and therefore to deter them
from repeating it, the Court awards some larger sum, i.e.
aggravated/exemplary damages. 43. Accordingly, this Court is of the view that the actions of the
Defendants merit an award of aggravated damages. M/s Nova CS(COMM) 737/2016 & CS(COMM) 1170/2016 Page 47 of 48 Manufacturing Industries Limited (NOVA) and M/s Badri Electro Supply
and Trading Company (BESTCO) LLC. are directed to pay additionally
Rs.50 lakhs jointly and severally. M/s Omni Exim Private Limited is
directed to pay additionally Rs.50 lakhs. 44. Consequently, the Plaintiffs are held entitled to decree in terms of
paragraph 50(i) of the plaint in CS(COMM) 1170/2016 as well as
paragraph 49(i) of the plaint in CS(COMM) 737/2016. The Plaintiffs are
also held entitled to a decree of Rs.1,19,96,000/- (Rs. 69,96,000/- +
Rs.50,00,000/-) against M/s Omni Exim Private Limited and
Rs.1,95,75,000/- (Rs. 1,45,75,000/- + Rs.50,00,000/-) jointly and
severally against M/s Nova Manufacturing Industries Limited (NOVA)
and M/s Badri Electro Supply and Trading Company (BESTCO) LLC.
The Plaintiffs are further held entitled to actual costs of litigation including
lawyer's fees. The Plaintiffs are given liberty to file on record the exact
cost incurred by them in adjudication of the present suit. Registry is
directed to prepare decree sheets accordingly. MANMOHAN, J
APRIL 22, 2019
rn/js CS(COMM) 737/2016 & CS(COMM) 1170/2016 Page 48 of 48