This Writ Petition has been filed to issue a Writ of Certiorari

 Mandamus to call for the records of the proceedings in CO/VIG/1365/2020-

 21 dated 01.03.2021 on the file of the 7th respondent, and to quash the same

 as illegal and without jurisdiction and consequently to direct the 3rd and 4th

 respondents to conduct a free and fair investigation into the cyber crime

 complaint given by the petitioner dated 15.02.2021. 4/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 2.The brief facts of the case is as under: She received the information from the City Union Bank at Aminjikarai

 branch that her money had been transferred fraudulently to the PayTM

 account. Immediately, she called PayTM and registered a complaint. The

 money was taken away from her account and transferred to the accounts of

 some unknown accused. PayTM had shared the customer ID, bank account

 details, etc. of the accused through P2P wallet transfers. The money

 appeared to have been illegally transferred from her account to six accounts

 in the State Bank of India and Fincare Small Finance Bank, Bangalore and

 the accounts are said to be belonging to one Uthham Kumar and one Balram

 Kumar of Mathiya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, respectively. On 15.02.2021

 the accused person attempted once again to hack the account and an SMS

 alert was received by her at 18.30 hours. Immediately, she had called the

 City Union Bank at the Aminjikarai branch and they advised her to reset her

 mobile PIN and to enable BIOMETRIC authorization. She received another

 SMS message at 21.26 hours that the reset was successful. However, on

 16.02.2021 the accused once again illegally logged onto the petitioner's 7/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 account; since the transfer of funds had been blocked, he was not able to

 transfer the funds. So it traces a suspicion about the security system of the

 7th respondent bank, and there is also a possibility that any insider of the

 banker also has got a connivance. 2.3. On 16.02.2021, at about 15.10 pm, she received a message

 stating that the accused had once again logged onto her account. So the

 petitioner called the bank and informed them, and thereafter her account was

 completely blocked. The City Union Bank at Aminjikarai branch has been

 utterly careless during the entire process. However, the 7th respondent has

 sent a letter dated 01.03.2021 denying its liability to refund the loss

 sustained by the petitioner. The bank was fully aware of the request made by

 the petitioner to block her account on 11.02.2021 itself, and now they are

 shifting the blame upon the petitioner. The petitioner has enclosed the

 messages she has received. The City Union Bank at Aminjikarai branch

 now seeks to fulfill its responsibility under the RBI's circular dated

 06.07.2017. If the complaint is given within 3 days, there is zero liability on

 the part of the customer. Hence, the petitioner is entitled to get the reversal 8/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 of Rs.3,00,000/- loss suffered due to the fraud committed on her account.

 Instead of honouring the application, the City Union Bank at Aminjikarai

 branch has attempted to shift the blame on the petitioner, and this raises a

 suspicion whether the branch officials themselves have any complicity in the

 mischief. In view of the stress and shock suffered due to the above incident,

 the petitioner suffered a miscarriage on 22.02.2021. The petitioner has filed

 this petition seeking a Writ of Certiorarified Mandamus to quash the

 impugned proceedings of the 7th respondent and further directions. 3. The 6th respondent is the Reserve Bank of India (hereinafter referred

 to as the RBI), the 7th respondent is the City Union Bank and the 10th

 respondent is PayTM. Even though the petition was filed only against the

 10th respondent, the State Bank of India and Fincare Small Finance Bank

 have also been suo moto impleaded as parties to the proceedings by virtue of

 the orders of this Court dated 02.11.2022. However, the existing

 respondents 2 and 3, who are the Additional Director General of Police,

 CBCID, and the Deputy Superintendent of Police, CBCID, have been

 deleted by order dated 17.03.2021. 9/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 4. The RBI has filed the counter by stating that the responsibility of

 the RBI is to regulate and supervise the banking sector to the benefit of the

 economy in the country under the provisions of the Banking Regulation Act 1949. Various directions and guidelines have been issued by the Reserve

 Bank of India to regulate the functions of banking entities. In the matter of

 transactions between the regulated entities and their customers, the RBI does

 not interfere. Only in the event that the regulated entity violates or

 contravenes the directions issued by the RBI, the latter would take

 cognizance of the matter. However, if the customer approaches the RBI

 Ombudsman under the Ombudsman Scheme, the same will be examined

 within the ambit of the scheme and appropriate redressal will be given

 within the scheme. 4.1. The petitioner had filed a complaint before the RBI Ombudsman

 in Chennai under the Banking Ombudsman Scheme -2006 [herein after

 referred as the BOS-2006], inter alia, alleging that the money in her savings

 bank account, maintained by the 7th respondent, was siphoned off through

 multiple unauthorised debits on February 15, 2021. After perusing the 10/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 documents and comments from the bank, i.e., City Union Bank, the

 Ombudsman closed the complaint under clause 13(a) of the BOS-2006 by

 observing that there is no deficiency observed against the bank on the

 services as mentioned in clause 8 of the Ombudsman Scheme. Clause 8 of

 the Ombudsman Scheme enumerates various grounds in which a person can

 file a complaint against the bank. The RBI has issued directions and

 guidelines to both Prepaid Payment Providers and banks for customer

 protection and has defined the extent of the liability of the customers and the

 relevant regulated entity. The RBI had issued a circular dated 04.01.2019

 vide No. DPSS.CO.PD.No.1417/02.14.006/2018-19 and it is applicable to

 all Authorized Non Bank Prepaid Payments Instrument Issuers for Customer

 Protection/limiting the liability of customers in unauthorised Electronic

 Payment Transactions through Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) issued

 by Authorized Non-banks. 4.2. Paragraph 6(b) of the below mentioned circular, states about the

 customer's liability in cases where the deficiency lies neither with the PPI

 issuer nor with the customer but elsewhere in the system and the customer 11/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 notifies the PPI issuer or the customer regarding the unauthorised payment

 transaction. For the sake of argument, the said paragraph is extracted as

 follows: # The number of days mentioned above shall be counted excluding the date of
 receiving the communication from the PPI issuer.
 The above shall be clearly communicated to all PPI holders”

 4.3. In the same circular, it is stated that the burden of proving

 customer liability in cases of unauthorised electronic payment transactions 12/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 shall lie on the PPI issuer. 4.4. The 6threspondent, RBI, had also issued a circular dated

 06.07.2017 bearing circular number DBR.No.Leg.BC.78/09.07.005/2017-

 18 applicable to All Scheduled Commercial Banks (including RPBs), All

 Small Finance Banks and Payments for Customer Protection/ Limiting

 Liability of Customers in unauthorised Electronic Banking Transactions.

 Under paragraphs Nos. 6 and 7 of the above circular dated July 6, 2017, the

 bank is liable in cases where the responsibility for the unauthorised

 electronic banking transactions lies neither with the bank nor with the

 customer but elsewhere in the system. The relevant portion of the circular is

 also extracted hereunder: Moreover, it has to be ascertained if the petitioner's phone has been hacked.

 Without asserting these facts, the 7th respondent cannot be held liable. 5.5. It is seen from the reports that the petitioner's phone has been

 hacked by some third party. Every time the petitioner tried to change the

 MPIN, the hackers managed to access her account. If the phone is hacked, it

 is beyond the control of the bank to protect the account. The perpetrators

 had gained access to the petitioner's account through the 10th respondent

 and not this respondent's banking system on both occasions, i.e., 09.02.2021

 and 11.02.2021. With regard to the mobile banking block request sent by

 the petitioner on 11.02.2021, nothing could be done. Since SMS request

 sent by the petitioner was in an incorrect format it was rejected. In fact the 19/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 petitioner was alerted immediately by the system by sending SMS to use

 correct format as under: The process for executing transactions in a third-party application is as 20/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 below: 6. The 10th respondent PayTM has filed his counter and the 10th

 respondent's counter in brief is as under: It is within the purview of respondent No. 10 to monitor or control any

 authorization or non-authorization of the on-line payments, which happen 23/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 through the server automatically. 6.2. All transactions carried out on the PayTM Platform are secured

 and require authentication of the OTP / PIN, before initiation, which is

 generated by the respective card /Bank service provider and known only to

 the individual customer / card holder / petitioner. If there had been any

 discrepancy in the execution of said transaction, such as a wrong card

 number / Account No., OTP/UPI PIN etc, the said transaction could never

 have been successful and the amount in question in said transaction could

 have never been transferred to any account. PayTM bank is a conduit

 service provider, and hence, in case any customer is willing to perform any

 transaction through the PayTM platform, he has to select the mode of

 payment, i.e., Debit/Credit card, net banking, UPI and upon entering correct

 and genuine banking credentials along with OTP / PIN etc., the said

 transaction takes place automatically without any manual intervention. 6.3. The RBI in its directions dated 06.07.2017(RBI/2017-18/15) on

 Customer Protection/Limiting Liability of Customers in Unauthorised 24/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 Electronic Banking Transaction has clearly specified that the customer shall

 be liable for the loss occurred due to unauthorised transactions if the loss

 was due to the negligence of the customer by sharing the payment

 credentials, etc., Neither in the petition nor in the legal notice, no grievance

 has been made against the respondent No.10 and hence the 10th

 respondent is not a necessary or proper party to these proceedings. The

 petitioner has an alternate efficacious remedy by approaching the

 adjudicatory authority under the Information Technology Act and the writ

 petition is barred in view of the alternate remedy. The 10th respondent has

 already provided the necessary information sought from him. 6.4. As per the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan V. Bhawani Singh & Ors , AIR 1992 SC 1018, if there

 are disputed and mixed questions of fact that cannot be adjudicated in writ

 proceedings; the petitioner ought to approach the Information Technology,

 Adjudicatory Authority which is a designated authority for such on-line

 frauds. 25/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 7. Mr.Sarath Chandran, learned senior counsel for the petitioner

 submitted that there are materials to show that the impugned transactions

 were fraudulent and it was not done by the petitioner; even though the RBI

 guidelines have made it clear that if a complaint about fraudulent

 transactions is done within three days, the customer does not have any

 liability and it is the liability of the bank or Prepaid Payment Instructions

 (PPI) to make good the loss suffered by the customers; the unfortunate

 petitioner who held her account with the 7th respondent, City Union Bank,

 was defrauded by some fraudsters to withdraw money from her account by

 using PayTM applications. 8. Mr.S.R.Sundar, learned counsel for the respondents 7 to 9, denied

 their liability by stating that there was no deficiency of service on the part of

 the 7th respondent bank and hence the 7th respondent is not liable to

 compensate the loss suffered by the petitioner due to the fraudulent

 transactions. Apart from the branches of the banks through which a

 customer normally operates money transactions, now-a-days many payment

 banks have been introduced by the RBI. The aim of such a promotion of 26/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 payment banks is to extend deposit and payment services to unbanked and

 under banked Indians. 9. The above submissions adduced by the learned counsels of either

 side heard and the materials perused. 10. Even though the public is encouraged to use payment banks such

 as PayTM, Google Pay, Amazan Pay, etc., the customer is made to run from

 pillar to post, in case he is affected due to any 3rd party violations or

 fraudulent intervention. What is surprising is that even when the RBI has

 issued detailed master directions for both banks and Prepaid Payment

 Instruments [PPI], every institution shifts the blame upon the other and no

 one has come up with a concrete idea as to who has to bear the loss suffered

 by the petitioner, for none of her mistakes. 11. There were certain attempts made by some miscreants to access

 the petitioner's account with the City Union Bank through the PayTM app

 from 09.02.2021. The City Union Bank had alerted her by sending an SMS 27/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 that her account was accessed by someone. The petitioner happened to

 notice the message on 11.02.2021 and she had sent an SMS to block her

 account. But it was unsuccessful. The fraudulent attempts were continuing,

 and things went beyond the control of the petitioners and the bankers. 12. On 15.02.2021 the fraudsters had siphoned off nearly

 Rs.3,00,000/- from her account by making successive transactions using the

 PayTM application. It is the contention of the 7th respondent that their

 liability ends with alerting the customer and they were not able to block her

 account because the SMS was not sent in a proper manner. The petitioner

 omitted to call the branch directly to see that her account is blocked. After

 the advent of on-line transactions, the life style of the individuals has

 changed to a greater extent. The practice of establishing physical meetings

 with the branch has become obsolete. In view of the various online

 mechanisms provided by the banks for almost all banking services, no one

 goes to the branch physically in order to make any complaint. So it is not a

 surprise that the petitioner did not make any direct contact with the bank

 and that she followed scrupulously how she was instructed in the alert SMS. 28/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 13. A police complaint was given by the petitioner and it was

 registered with much difficulty. As per the status report submitted by the 4th

 respondent, the fraudsters were identified by their names and they have

 accounts with SBI. The fraudsters had acted smartly by transferring the

 amounts to the various accounts after doing the fraudulent transaction in

 order to prevent the reversal. After the complaint was made to the 7th

 respondent, he contacted the 10th respondent, PayTM, by stating that the

 fraudsters had used the PayTM mobile app and managed to access the

 PayTM account of the petitioner from some other mobiles. 14. In order to register as a PayTM user, one has to have a bank

 account and mobile number. After installing the PPI applications, the

 customer has to link his registered mobile number with his bank account and

 the application. By opening the app, either by using a biometric method or a

 PIN number, the app will be accessed and transactions will be done by

 typing the PPI-PIN numbers and the money can be transferred within

 moments. No doubt such applications are time saving and convenient, but 29/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 the user does not know how to address his grievance if anyone tampers with

 the accounts by fraudulent means and siphons off the money lying in his

 account. 15. The fradulent transactions were not done by the petitioner. It is

 neither the case of the 7th respondent bank nor the 10th respondent PayTM

 that the transactions were done by the petitioner herself, and she is making

 fraudulent claims. In fact, the investigation has revealed information about

 the persons involved and in the status report it is stated that the fraudsters

 have managed to access the app by being in some other states, like Bihar.

 Whatever might be the modus operandi adopted by the fraudsters, the fact

 remains that it was not the petitioner who had revealed the details of her PIN

 Number or other details to the fraudsters either knowingly or unknowingly.

 The fraudsters had used PayTM application and not the net banking/mobile

 banking of the 7th respondent bank to swindle money from the petitioner’s

 account. So it is claimed by the 7th respondent that there is no security

 compromise at their end, and hence, the banker is not liable to compensate

 the petitioner. 30/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 16. The records would make it clear that the access was done through

 a payment bank named PayTM. In fact, with the details furnished by the

 7th respondent and the 10th respondent as to the transactions, the

 investigation officer could know the persons who transacted and who made

 the fraudulent transactions and to whose accounts the money was so

 transacted and transferred. Fortunately, a sum of Rs.70,000/- was withheld

 by Fincare India, and after a series of court orders, Fincare India was obliged

 to reverse the said sum to the petitioner's account. Since the City Union

 Bank and PayTM shifted the blame upon each other and did not come

 forward to take up the responsibility of compensating the petitioner, the 6th

 respondent, RBI, has been asked to come out with their stand and to clarify

 who is liable to compensate the petitioner, as per their guidelines. 17. The 6th respondent, RBI, has filed his counter affidavit and stated

 about the various guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India in the

 interest of customer protection. The counter affidavit of the RBI was also

 diplomatic to the extent that the RBI did not pinpoint either the 7th

 respondent or the 10th respondent as a person who is liable to compensate 31/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 the petitioner. The above exercise of fixing the liability was left to the court

 in light of the guidelines of the RBI, which the 6th respondent reiterated in

 his counter. In fact, the RBI guidelines are customer-friendly, and if the

 customer happens to report about the fraudulent transactions within three

 days of the occurrence, as per the guidelines, there is 'ZERO LIABILITY'

 fixed on the customer. The above position is similar for both banks and

 Prepaid Payment Instruments, except for the fact that they were through

 different circulars. Since the transaction was not done through any `Net

 Banking sites but through a payment bank application by name ‘ PayTM’,

 it has to be seen whether the banker or the payment banker is liable. 18. The case in hand does fall within the clause (b) of the following

 portion of the circular dated 04.01.2019 vide No.

 DPSS.CO.PD.No.1417/02.14.006/2018-19, which is applicable to all

 authorised non-bank Prepaid Payment Instrument issuers for customer

 protection/limiting the liability of customers in unauthorised electronic

 payment transactions in prepaid payment instruments (PPIs) issued by

 authorised non-banks. For the sake of clarity, paragraph No. 6 of the 32/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 circular reads as follows: # The number of days mentioned above shall be counted excluding
 the date of receiving the communication from the PPI issuer.
 The above shall be clearly communicated to all PPI holders” 19. The liability of the customer is fixed at Rs.10,000/- per transaction

 if the complaint has been made within 4 to 7 days and if beyond 7 days, it is

 as per the policy of the prepaid payment instrument issuer. In the case in

 hand, the petitioner had given her complaint to her banker immediately after

 the transaction. It cannot be claimed by the 10th respondent, PayTM, that 33/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 the petitioner ought to have given her complaint to the 10th respondent

 instead of the 7th respondent. Because even the petitioner was not able to

 know how the fraud was committed. The matter came to light after the

 initiative taken by the 7th respondent bank. In fact, the 7th respondent

 bank has been communicating with PayTM about the fraudsters’ activity.

 So it cannot be said that the 10th respondent is not aware of the fraud just

 because the customer gave her complaint to her bank directly. 20. Another convenient submission made by the 10th respondent is

 that the 10th respondent payment bank is a private corporation and not a

 government institution, and hence, it cannot be subjected to the jurisdiction

 of this Court. The 6th respondent RBI, has stated that the primary function

 of the RBI is to regulate and supervise the banking sector for the benefit of

 this country's economy under the provisions of the Banking Regulation Act 1949. It is further submitted that the RBI would not normally interfere with

 the transactions between the regulated entities and their customers. But that

 this would not preclude the RBI from taking cognizance of the matter when

 the regulated entity violates or contravenes the RBI guidelines. 34/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 21. It is further submitted that the customer could approach the RBI

 Ombudsman under the Ombudsman Scheme and the same will be examined

 and appropriate actions would be taken for redressal of such grievances even

 if they fall within the ambit of the Scheme. Since a customer's savings habits

 or mode of money transactions could have an impact on the country's

 economy, it cannot be said that the customer's interest is alien to the interest

 of the economy of the country. If all the customers switch over to physical

 mode of money transactions and abstain from doing transactions through the

 banking sector, that would grossly affect the economy of the country and

 hence, the customer's interest is also paramount. So, the RBI has an

 obligation to safeguard the customer’s interest as well. This is especially true

 when it comes to the knowledge of the RBI that a payment bank like PayTM

 evades to comply RBI guidelines and shrieks away its liability to compensate

 the petitioner in tune with the guidelines of RBI. 22. Even though the petitioner has sought compensation from the 7th

 respondent banker, the facts and materials available on record as discussed 35/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 above would only fix the liability on the payment bank [the 10th respondent]

 and not upon the 7th respondent bank. Though a straight away directions

 can not be given against the 10th respondent, since it is a private body, this

 Court can mould the relief in such a way that directions should be given to

 the 6th respondent, RBI, to take action against the 10th respondent for

 violating its own guidelines. The RBI guidelines are issued not as a

 formality, but the entities subjected to the RBI regulations should comply

 with the conditions of the master circular in its true letter and spirit. 23. In fact, as per the guidelines No. 16.4.8, the non bank Prepaid

 Payment Instrument issuers shall ensure that a complaint is resolved and the

 liability of the customer is established within the said time not exceeding 90

 days. But the 10th respondent has not come forward to take cognizance of

 the grievances suffered by the petitioner, who was the user of the PayTM

 banking services. It is further stated in the above guidelines that if the PPI

 issuer is unable to resolve the complaint and determine the customer's

 liability within 90 days, the amount as prescribed under guideline No. 16.4.8

 shall be paid to the customer irrespective of whether the negligence is on the 36/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 part of the customer or otherwise. 24. In the case in hand the 10 th respondent had failed to resolve the

 dispute within 90 days and he has not come out with any concrete structure

 as to how the loss suffered by the petitioner is going to be compensated.

 Within 90 days from the date of the complaint i.e. from 16.02.202,1 the 10 th

 respondent did not prove how the customer is liable. In fact with the

 informations furnished by the 7th respondent and the 10th respondent itself, it

 is made clear that there is no fraudulent actions on the part of the petitioner

 but the violations were done by the 3rd parties. 25. In fact, Mr.Sarath Chandran, learned counsel for the petitioner,

 has brought to the attention of this Court that it is at the discretion of the

 payment banks to waive the customers liability, if any, even if the customer

 had filed a complaint at a belated stage. It is further submitted that a

 Corporate Company by name One 97, which owns the consumer brand

 PayTM, along with PayTM Payments Bank Ltd have filed a writ petition

 before the Delhi High Court for seeking directions against the department of 37/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 telecommunications and the Telecoms Regulatory Authority of India to

 ensure complete and strict implementation of the provisions of telecom

 Commercial Communications Customers Preferences/Regulations 2018 and

 any other regulations issued from time to time to curb fraudulent unsolicited

 commercial communications sent over the respective their networks in order

 to prevent the customers of PayTM from suffering loss on account of

 fraudulent calls and messages containing either a link or phone number.

 Such frauds are committed thorough spying activities done by using the

 telecommunication services such as SMS and calls. It is conceded by PayTM

 before the Delhi High court that its customers alone have cumulatively lost

 nearly 10 Crores Rupees between the period from July 2019 to April 2020. It

 is further submitted by the PayTM that it is scrupulously following the

 guidelines issued by RBI in the interest of its customers. 26. The modus adopted by the fraudsters is like taking the customers

 to a malicious link or a phone number sent through SMS and when the

 customer dials the number or clicks the link so given, that would lead to 38/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 installation of some mirroring apps, malwares, and other modes which reveal

 sensitive information of the user. This enables the fraudsters to withdraw

 funds from the victim's bank account. Such kind of spying attacks have a

 deleterious effect upon the customers similar to the case in hand. It is also

 brought to the knowledge of the Court by the learned counsel for the

 petitioner that PayTM was banned from enrolling new customers. The RBI

 has taken action against PayTM under Sec.35-A of the Banking Regulation

 Act 1949 and directed PayTM to appoint an IT audit firm to conduct a

 comprehensive system audit of its IT system. 27. In fact, it is stated by the RBI that such an action has been taken

 based on certain materials connecting to supervising concerns observed by

 the bank itself. So the system audit is required for the IT system adopted by

 the 10th respondent, which is vulnerable to fraudulent activities. The

 petitioner is one among the several users and hence the 10th respondent is

 liable to make out the loss suffered by the petitioner. As it has been stated

 already that the complaint has been made by the customer to her banker, and

 the banker has kept in touch with PayTM, PayTM can not disown its 39/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 liability. 28. Since the RBI has been issuing directions to PayTM, as already

 cited, it is essential to issue one such direction to the 10th respondent to

 settle the loss suffered by the petitioner within the next two weeks. It is

 emphasised that the 10th respondent had failed to establish the liability on

 the part of the customer within 90 days as prescribed in the guidelines of the

 RBI, and hence the 10th respondent cannot state that the matter in issue

 involves a lot of facts to be gone into. The violations are crystal clear, and

 the 6th respondent has got the obligation to intervene when to the knowledge

 of the 6th respondent, the 10 th respondent continues to violate the RBI

 guidelines and adopts an unfriendly attitude towards its users. In the result, this Writ Petition is allowed. However, the relief is

 modified to the effect that the 6th respondent is directed to issue directions to

 the 10th respondent to make good the loss suffered by the petitioner without

 any other reduction, except the reduction of the amount, if any already

 reversed to the account of the petitioner in pursuant to the earlier order of

 this Court, within a period of two weeks. No cost. Consequently, the 40/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 miscellaneous petitions are closed. 28.04.2023

 Index : Yes
 Internet : Yes
 Speaking:Yes
 Neutral : Yes
 jrs

 To 1.The Commissioner of Police,
 Office of the Commissioner of Police,
 Vepery, Chennai-600 007. 3.The Deputy Commissioner,
 K-4 Anna Nagar Police Station,
 Anna Nagar, Chennai. 4. The Inspector of Police,
 K-8 Police Station,
 Arumbakkam, Chennai. 5.The Reserve Bank of India,
 16, Rajaji Salai,
 Fort Glacis, Chennai. 6.The City Union Bank,
 Vigilance Department,
 703, Anna Salai, Chennai. 7. The Assistant General Manager,
 City Union Bank,
 Vigilance Department,
 24-B, Gandhi Nagar, 41/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 Kumbakonam 612 001. 8.The Manager,
 City Union Bank,
 Irungalur Branch,
 Oppositte SRM Campus,
 Irungalur, Trichy. 9. PayTM Mobil Solutions Private Limited,
 B-121, Sector 5, Noida-201301
 India. 10.State Bank of India,
 Rajaji Road,
 Mannadi, Chennai Port Trust,
 Chennai 600 001. 11.Fincare Small Finance Bank,
 292, New No.116, Z Block II Avenue,
 Beside Tower Metro Station,
 Anna Nagar,
 Chennai 600 040. 42/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 43/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis WP.No.6789 of 2021 R.N.MANJULA, J. jrs

 Pre-delivery Order in WP.No.6789 of 2021 and
 WMP.Nos.7343 & 7345 of 2021

 28.04.2023 44/44 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis