1. By this order, I shall dispose of the following applications: IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.2 of 132 5. The defendant No. 1 is stated to be a social networking and

entertainment website which offers a variety of entertainment

applications including sharing, viewing of music, images, cinematograph

works having its base in the United States of America. The defendant

No. 2 is the owner of the defendant No. 1 which is stated to be a division

of News Corporation, Fox Interactive media which is offering, border

free online network that caters to consumers by giving them platform or

tools. 6. As per the plaintiff, the defendant No.1 describes the website

as a place for friends and projects its website as a place to upload

pictures and videos. The said website myspace.com provides country

specific content and is one of the most popular social networking and

content sharing website in the world. The plaintiff contends that the

defendants‟ basic point of attraction in running this website is to make

available the multimedia content including songs, pictures, clips which

can be seen and shared by the user over the internet space. The said

website of defendant No. 1 not only includes recently released infringing

material but also the material which has not yet been released or is

authorized for broadcast through the authorized distribution channels. 7. The features of the website are being described as that the

user or visitor need not subscribe to the website in order to enable him to

search and view the video on the same. But for the purposes of uploading

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.3 of 132
 a video on to the website, the user is required to subscribe and create a

user profile. It is also pointed out in the plaint that when a user in India

visits the said website the said user is immediately forwarded to India

centric version of the website namely in.myspace.com which is catering

to the Indian community. 8. The plaintiff states that the website of the defendants contains

the additional features and instructions which encourages the users and

enables them to learn how to share videos. These additional functions

create additional unauthorized copying, electronically store, transmit the

content that infringes the rights of the others including the plaintiff. 9. The website of the defendants is stated to also generate

revenue by offering of this illegal content/ infringing works. The said

revenue is made through the medium of advertisements being displayed

on each webpage. The whole business of the defendant No. 1 is

specifically depends upon authorizing free uploading and then

distributing the content through downloading or streaming content to end

users. 10. The complaint of the plaintiff emerges from the kind of

business model adopted by the defendants wherein it states that the

songs, cinematograph works including the ones which are for new movies

or upcoming movies distributing which the plaintiff earns its revenue and

completes its cost of film making gets deprived due to illegal

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.4 of 132
 dissemination of the songs, cinematographs works by the defendants on

internet whereby the defendants encourages and authorizes the users to

share these contents and the end users are benefitted with the said songs

and films free of charge by in turn distribution by the defendants to the

public at large. 11. The plaintiff has also explained the operation of the website of

the defendants in the following manner: 12. The plaintiff has stated that in the year 2007 a non disclosure

agreement was signed between the plaintiff and the defendants and

thereafter there were in talks with the defendants whereby the defendants

were called upon to take the licences from the plaintiff. But, the talks

broke down and the defendants rather offered the plaintiff to go for

registration of rights management tool programme by way of email dated

January 18, 2008. However, the plaintiff then gave a legal notice on

20.2.2008 informing the defendants about its rights. The reply to the

notice of the plaintiff by the defendants was issued on 12.3.2008 wherein

the defendants assumed that the content of the plaintiff copyright has

been taken down and also that the same shall not be made available on

the website in future. 13. However, in December 2008, it was realized by the plaintiff

that the defendants have not removed the said infringing material from the

website. The said infringing material despite the assurance of the

defendants was still available on the website of the defendants. The

plaintiff has enumerated the infringing material as on December 2008 in

the plaint which can be outlined as under: 14. Thereafter, the plaintiff filed the present suit feeling

 dissatisfied with the assurances of the defendants and sought the interim

 reliefs from this court to the following terms: employees, agents, servants and representatives and
 all others acting on their behalf and in active
 concert or participation with them or any of them
 from reproducing, adapting, distributing,
 communicating, transmitting, disseminating or
 displaying on their website www.myspace.com,
 www.in.myspace.com or any sub-domain thereof or
 otherwise infringing in any manner the
 cinematograph films, sound recordings and/or the
 underlying literary or musical works in which the
 plaintiff owns exclusive, valid and subsisting
 copyright(s); (ii) grant an order of permanent injunction
 restraining the defendants, their officers,
 employees, agents, servants and representatives and
 all others acting on their behalf and in active
 concert or participation with them or any of them
 from causing, contributing to, inducing, enabling,
 facilitating or participating in the infringement of
 the cinematograph films, sound recordings and/or
 the underlying literary or musical works in which
 the plaintiff owns exclusive, valid and subsisting
 copyright(s) on their website www.myspace.com,
 www.in.myspace.com or any sub-domain thereof or
 otherwise; and (iii) grant an order of rendition of accounts by
 the defendants to the plaintiff; (iv) grant an order requiring the defendants
 jointly and severally to pay damages as stated
 hereinabove to the plaintiff; the plaintiff and against the defendants as may be
 deemed fit and proper by this Hon‟ble Court in the
 interest of justice and equity." IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.8 of 132 15. The matter was first listed before this court on 19.12.2008

when the defendants also appeared as caveators and this court was

passed the following order : 16. The said order was challenged before the Hon‟ble Division

Bench, wherein the Hon‟ble Division Bench passed the following order

with the observation that the said order is an interim measure and will not

come in the way of the Learned Single Judge in deciding the interim

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.9 of 132
 applications. The said order of Learned Division Bench is reproduced

hereinafter: 17. The defendants have filed its written statement and replied to

the application seeking interim injunction. The defendants have also filed

an application under Order 39 Rule 4 seeking modification of the order

passed on 19.12.2008. The defendants have also amended the written

statement and in the amended written statement they have raised the

following defences :  The exercise of jurisdiction by this court would mean that the

 court is giving extraterritorial effect. b) That the suit is not maintainable as the prayers made in the suit are

 non specific and if granted it will impose impossible burden upon

 the defendant No. 1. The plaintiff has failed to specify in respect of

 which works, it is seeking injunction order and thus the suit is not

 maintainable. IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.11 of 132 c) The prayers made in the suit are open ended and the blanket

 injunction of the kind cannot be granted by the court. No qua timet

 action is maintainable in suit for copyright infringements d) The plaintiff has made certain misrepresentations about the facts

 which according to the defendants were not mentioned in the legal

 notice in the year 2008 and the defendants have clarified all the

 aspect work wise. e) The acts of defendants are those of intermediatory providing free

 of cost platform to the users without any actual or direct

 knowledge of the content being uploaded and has no role in

 selection of the content so uploaded. The defendants have no

 control over the said content being uploaded as the portal of the

 defendants is such where it cannot exercise any such control. f) The acts of the defendants are those of intermediatory and are

 protected under the provisions of Section 79 of Information

 Technology Act, 2000. The said provision will act as safe harbor

 provisions of US Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA")

 whereby the liability of the defendants shall be exempted by

 operation of Section 79 of IT Act, 2000. g) The agreements or the assignments which are placed on record by

 the plaintiff are defective. The said agreement reveals that the

 rights of the movies vest with the producers and they have retained

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.12 of 132
 the said rights including internet rights. Thus, the rights which are

 asserted by the plaintiff actually do not belong to the plaintiff. h) The defendants only provides a means for file sharing where the

 acts which are performed may or may not be infringing and thus

 mere providing of means is no infringement under the eyes of the

 law. i) The acts of the defendants are protected under the provisions of

 Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA") of United States. j) The defendants have provided the term of use agreement with

 users which reads as under: ...... IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.13 of 132
 8.16 Violates the privacy rights, publicity rights,
 copyrights, trademark rights, contract rights or any
 other rights of any person" Vide clause 6.1 of the User Agreement, the said defendant

binds its users to grant it a limited license to use, modify, delete from,

add to, publicly perform, publicly display, reproduce and distribute such

UGC solely for the purposes of the website. The said clause reads as under: Content outside the MySpace Website as soon as
 practicable after you make the change." m) The uploaded content can be identified only by way of URL

 (Uniform Resource locator) as an address and the defendants

 cannot thus segregate the infringing or non infringing works. n) The defendants have installed a notice and take down procedure in

 compliance of Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA") of

 US same as earlier one wherein, any proprietor who has a reason

 to believe that the copyrighted content has been posted on the

 website, can issue notice and ask to take down the request and the

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.15 of 132
 defendants will immediately take the corrective measures to take

 down and remove the said content. o) The defendants have also provided three safeguards on its own: The Hash Block filters prevents the deleted content from

 being reposted by taking finger print of the content. The Take Down stay down contents also prevents the

 repetitive reposting of the file containing identical content. Thus,

 the said filter is also a useful identifier for preventing repetitive

 infringement. The third tool has been explained by the defendants in detail

 which is as under: 18. The applications came up for hearing from time to time and

clarifications were also sought from the parties after reserving the matter

for orders. 19. Learned counsel Mr. Amit Sibal appearing on behalf of the

plaintiff has made his submissions which can be enunciated as under: In order to support his contention Mr. Sibal relied upon the

following judgments: d) Learned counsel Mr. Sibal submitted that the case of the

 defendants do not fall within the exception provided under Section

 51 (a) (ii) of the Act as the defendants are doing the infringement

 with knowledge and also they have a reason to believe that such

 acts would amount to infringement of copyright. Mr. Sibal has provided following reasons whereby it can be

 said that the defendants‟ acts of communicating the work are

 coupled with knowledge: e) Learned Counsel Mr. Sibal submitted that the argument of the

 primary infringement can be strengthened by looking at Section 14 of the Act wherein copyright means right to do or authorize the

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.22 of 132
 doing of the act. Thus, the said acts are the acts of the owner and

 the defendants while providing a space at the internet is

 authorizing the communication of the work to the public by which

 large segment of public is able to hear, listen and watch the

 cinematograph and musical works of the plaintiff without its

 authorization. Thus, the defendants‟ acts amounts to authorizing

 the infringement which itself is a separate infringement by way

 conjoint reading of Section 14 read with Section 51 . Mr. Sibal has referred to extensive English case laws

 included the ones decided in Australia on the subject of authorizing

 the infringement which can be enlisted as under: Thus, it is the submission of Mr. Sibal that the defendants‟

 acts are nothing less than providing means to an infringement for

 profit which is equally considered to be an infringement. The said

 infringement also gets established when the defendants‟ exercises

 full control over and above the user generated content and other

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.23 of 132
 determinative factors which are well settled by the new line of

 decisions as mentioned above. f) Learned counsel Mr. Sibal vehemently argued that the "notice and

 take down" alternative which has been suggested by the

 defendants do not mitigate the wrongs of the defendants and is not

 a sufficient safeguard for an infringement which occurs on day to

 day basis. This has been explained by Mr. Sibal by informing that the

 new musical and cinematograph works are made from time to time,

 as and when there are promotions of new movies. The availability

 of the said trailors or musical works on internet would mean

 sharing the same with public at large. Notice and turn down

 provisions which provides the aggrieved party to get the

 defendants to notice the already occurring infringement and

 thereafter the defendants remove the contents on internet. The said

 procedure is inappropriate and does not remedy the infringement,

 as by the time notice to turn down is given by the plaintiff to the

 defendants, infringement is already caused whereby the works of

 the plaintiff are already circulated to the public at large. Thus, the procedure suggested by the defendants to first

 make the infringing work available and then to delete on request is

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.24 of 132
 bad and puts to the plaintiff into irretrievable harm by causing

 infringement of each and every new work of the plaintiff and

 enough damage is already done prior to making such turn down

 request. As per Mr. Sibal, the question has to be seen from the

 perspective as why the defendants should be at all allowed to

 cause infringement of the plaintiff works at the first place and more

 so when the said acts are the conscious acts where the defendants

 are also getting benefitted. g) It is also the contention of Mr. Sibal that the defendants, refuge

 under the safe harbor provisions of the law will not be applicable

 to the present case. The present case is to be decided upon the

 existing legal position and the law of the land and not as per the

 US Digital Millenium Copyright Act. The said act and provisions

 under the said act does not extend to India and neither there is any

 provision under the existing laws which provides such safe harbor

 provisions and in the absence of the same, the discussion relating

 to the same in relation to infringement of the plaintiff‟s works in

 India becomes irrelevant. In short, the Digital Millennium

 Copyright Act ("DMCA") is not applicable to the present dispute. By making the above submissions, Mr. Sibal argued that the

 plaintiff has prima facie case as there is no denial to the title of the

 works owned by the plaintiff and there are infringing activities

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.25 of 132
 being carried on the internet without authorization of the plaintiff.

 Further, the defendants are doing the same deliberately and causing

 the plaintiff royalty losses. The balance of convenience also lies in

 favour of the plaintiff and they are more inconvenient in the event

 of non grant of injunction as their works are continuing to be

 infringed on internet. On the other hand, the defendants can still

 continue their acts without displaying the works of the plaintiff‟s

 on the web. The plaintiff is put to irretrievable harm due to the illegal acts

 of the defendants and its extensive royalty losses due to the same

 and the defendants have nothing to loose, except, the illegal

 earnings arising out the infringing activities. Thus, as per the

 learned counsel Mr Sibal, the present case warrants the grant of

 injunction as per the prayers made in the injunction application and

 the order dated 19.12.2008 which has been modified by the

 Division bench further records that the same shall not come in the

 way of the learned single judge to decide the injunction application

 and thus this court can conveniently grant and extend the

 injunction in terms of the injunction application. 20. Per contra, Mr. Rajinder Kumar, advocate, appearing on

behalf of the defendants has resisted the injunction application and also

submitted that the present case does not warrant the grant any injunction

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.26 of 132
 at all. Learned counsel Mr. Kumar has made the submissions which can

be outlined in the following terms. a) Mr. Kumar firstly submitted that this court lacks necessary

 territorial and personal jurisdiction to entertain and try the

 proceedings against the defendants who are carrying on business,

 residing and personally works for gain in the United States of

 America. Mr. Kumar in order to buttress his submissions relied

 upon the following :  Even if the web-site of the defendants is interactive, the

 same by itself is not sufficient to clothe jurisdiction upon

 this court.  The defendants‟ web-site, which is accessible and

 available to all and sundry from any part of the world, is

 not specifically targeted at users in India. The Plaintiff has

 not shown or pleaded prima facie that the defendant No.1

 „purposefully availed‟ itself of the jurisdiction of this

 Hon‟ble Court; that the nature of the activity indulged in

 by the defendants by the use of their web-site was with an

 intention to conclude a commercial transaction with the

 web-site user (since the defendant No.1‟s services are

 completely free of charge); and that the specific targeting

 of this forum state by the defendants have resulted in an

 injury or harm to the Plaintiff within this forum court.

  The Plaintiff has pleaded that the defendants‟ web-site is a

 highly interactive web-site which not only permits users to

 access the contents thereof but also to subscribe to the

 services provided by the defendants by "signing up" for

 such services, including, the uploading and downloading of

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.28 of 132
 videos available on the web-site. The plaint and the

 documents filed by the Plaintiff no-where show that the

 defendants‟ use of its web-site is with an intention to

 conclude a commercial transaction with its users. On the

 contrary, the subscription to the services offered on

 defendants‟ web-site is free and does not involve any

 future payment.  Even for the purposes of Section 20(c) , CPC, in order to

 show that some part of the cause of action has arisen

 within the jurisdiction of this Hon‟ble Court by the

 defendants‟ use of the internet, the Plaintiff must show and

 prove that not only the defendants‟ specifically targeted

 viewers within the jurisdiction of this Hon‟ble Court but

 also that some commercial transaction using the web-site

 was entered into by the defendants with a user of its web-

 site within this forum resulting in an injury or harm to the

 Plaintiff within the jurisdiction of this Hon‟ble Court.

  No such material has been placed on record by the Plaintiff

 that the defendants have entered into commercial

 transactions with the users of its web-site in Delhi or

 anywhere in India for that matter. IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.29 of 132
  Further, the Plaintiff has sought to establish jurisdiction on

 the basis of certain print-outs from the defendants‟ web-

 site to purportedly show availability of the Plaintiff‟s

 works on the said web-site for public performances,

 display and communication of the same to the public. No

 details of the users involved have been provided anywhere

 in the plaint. These print-outs seem to indicate that the

 Plaintiff has set-up its own people to access the

 defendants‟ web-site and engineer the search results to

 suit its convenience. As held by the Hon‟ble Division

 Bench in the case of Banyan Tree (Supra), it would have

 to be a real commercial transaction that the defendants

 have with someone not set-up by the Plaintiff itself. The

 Banyan Tree (Supra), opinion further holds that if the

 only evidence is in the form of a series of trap transactions,

 they have to be shown as having been obtained using fair

 means. The Plaintiff in the present case has failed to aver

 in the plaint and place alongwith it any supporting material

 to

 Thus, as per Mr. Kumar, learned counsel for the defendants,

 this court lacks the territorial jurisdiction due to the above said

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.30 of 132
 reasons and this court should reject the plaint or return it to be

 presented before the appropriate forum. b) Mr. Kumar learned counsel for the defendants has argued by

 explaining the meaning of copyright in the cinematograph films

 that the copyright in any work can be infringed when the infringer

 actually indulge into the said act of infringement. The infringement

 cannot occur for the acts which the said defendants may indulge in

 future or which are not even entered into occurrence. It is the

 contention of learned counsel for the defendants that the plaintiff is

 seeking the general kind of injunction which is impermissible in

 law as there must be specific acts complained of for infringement

 to happen and the court to prevent those. Mr. Kumar has drawn analogy from Trade Marks Act, 1999 wherein the language of provision under the chapter of

 infringement uses the wordings "Likelihood of confusion" which

 according to him means permitting the plaintiff to sue for future

 wrongs, however the as per the learned counsel no such language

 subsists in the Copyright Act and in that event of the matter, it is

 inappropriate for this court to consider the grant of injunction for

 the future wrongs. c) Learned counsel thereafter started explaining the working of the

 defendant‟s website by showing the technical background of the

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.31 of 132
 internet and how it emerged. Learned counsel has taken pains to

 explain the meaning of the word internet by citing some English

 judgments. Counsel has then submitted that the defendants‟

 website is premised on the newer and the latest version of web 2.0

 which permits interactive interface with the users using it which

 includes, media, games, songs, pictures and other multimedia. d) Learned counsel further argued that the there is a difference

 between the infringement of the copyright happening in the

 physical form or the tangible form and the acts which are done in

 the virtual world of the internet which are not available in the

 physical form. As per the learned counsel, that makes a lot of

 difference. As per the learned counsel, there is a world wide

 debate over the management of communication on the internet.

 There are two international covenants entered into by the countries

 who are members of World Intellectual property Organisation

 which are known as WIPO Copyright Treaty (WCT) and WIPO

 Performance and Phonograms Treaty (WPPT). Learned counsel argued that the court should consider the

 provisions of these two treaties though India has not even ratified

 these conventions in order to consider the provisions relating to

 communications made over internet and its impact. Learned

 counsel in order to support his contention also relies upon the

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.32 of 132
 judgment passed by the Apex court in Entertainment Network

 (India) Ltd vs. Super Cassettes Industries , 2008 (9) SCALE 69

 wherein the apex court has expressed its opinion about the

 Application of International Conventions in India in the following

 words. Learned counsel has further explained the preceding

 argument in detail by enumerating the working process of the

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.34 of 132
 defendants on the internet which establish that the defendants are

 no more than an intermediary who is doing this without knowledge

 and despite due diligence the content cannot be known to the

 defendants at the first instance. Learned counsel submitted that

 defendant No. 1 is predominantly a service provider/ intermediary,

 providing a free of cost platform to its users and offering an

 interactive user submitted network of friends, personal profiles,

 blogs, groups, photos, music, video, instant messaging services,

 mobile services and videos. It is further submitted that the said

 defendants do not directly upload any content on its website

 (except for content that it licenses and creates which constitutes a

 very small portion of the content on its website), but merely

 provides a platform to its users for uploading content under certain

 terms and conditions. Thus, as per the learned counsel for the defendants, the acts

 of the defendants are purely of the kinds of intermediary and the

 defendants are just facilitating the space and cannot be held to be

 within the knowledge of the content which is being uploaded by

 third party unless the right holder brings it to the notice of the

 defendants. g) Learned counsel further submitted that it is not merely without the

 knowledge of the defendants but also impossible to monitor each

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.35 of 132
 and every content which is being uploaded on the website. The

 same is, therefore, the compulsion of the defendants while

 operating on internet as the internet portal is open to world at large

 and due to the nature of the portal which is such that anyone can

 upload anything. The defendants being a facilitating entity cannot

 be held responsible due to its impossibility of monitoring each and

 every content over the internet unless the active participation of the

 defendants is established. h) Learned counsel for the defendants further submitted that the

 defendants are not gaining any monetary benefits arising out the

 user generated content. But rather the advertising as per the

 learned counsel for the defendants is no doubt a business model of

 the defendants but is against the licensed content. Further it has been argued that the advertisements may also

 appear automatically as the user types keywords and search for the

 same. This is usually a part of "Adwords" which are in the nature

 of hints or options given by the search engines as and when the

 user asks any query from search engine. The example of the same

 is given that supposingly if the user is typing Punjaban. The song

 may appear and along side the same some options of Punjabi

 matrimonial may appear automatically which happens due to the

 search engines exercise and not due to the acts of the defendants.

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.36 of 132 j) Learned counsel submitted that indeed it is correct that the

 defendants takes the licence from the user to use, add, delete from

 or publicly perform or publicly display, publicly perform,

 reproduce and distribute the said content for the purposes of the

 website. However, the said licence is a precautionary step to avoid

 any objection from any users of the defendants. Learned counsel

 also states that the same does not mean that the defendants

 requires the licence for such reformatting. k) Learned counsel for the defendants further submitted that the

 defendants have already ensured that its website has measures to

 remove or prevent copyright infringements. The said measures are

 taken in consonance with the Digitial Millennium Copyright Act of

 USA. The said procedure is explained by the defendants below : 21. Learned counsel states that once the defendants themselves

vigilant about the right holders right and at their own expense are

operating the measures to cure or filter the infringement. In these

circumstances, the defendants cannot be said to be those who are

indulging in the infringement when they have no connection whatsoever

with the content of the works in question. IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.41 of 132 22. By making these aforementioned submissions, Mr. Rajinder

Kumar resisted the grant of injunction and also pressed for the vacation

of the earlier order of Division bench by urging that the defences raised

above prima facie establish that the defendants could not be held liable

for any act of infringement of the copyright being an intermediary. The

defendants already have a provision to remedy the grievance of the

plaintiff which does not require any further orders as it is within the

policy of operation of the defendants that it is required to delete the

works which are infringing in nature. Further, the said acts are without

knowledge sufficiently are not covered by the second part of the

provision of Section 51(a) (ii) read with the provisions of IT Act and

therefore no liability of infringement can be attributed against the

defendants. Thus, the order passed by Division Bench is liable to vacated

and injunction application filed by the plaintiff is to be dismissed.

Although during the course of the arguments the defendants‟ counsel

admitted that the order passed by the division bench can be confirmed

and the same is also stated to be the only answer in the written statement. 23. I have gone through the plaint, written statement and records

of the proceedings and also noted the submissions of the parties.

However, before commenting upon the submissions of the parties, I deem

it fit to first discuss the law on the subject. IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.42 of 132
 Law Relating To Copyright And Its Relation With Internet

Computing 24. Copyright is a bundle of rights which is meant to encourage

creativity. The said rights are negative rights in as much as the same are

prohibiting others from using the copyrighted works. The traditional

concept of the copyright has undergone a drastic change as traditionally,

the law relating to copyright was meant to encourage the original literary,

books and also to help the poor authors. But, due to advent of the new

technologies, its scope has extended manifolds. Now, the modern law of

copyright encompasses musical works, cinematograph works, computer

programs, performers rights, broadcasting rights.

24.1 The copyright has now become part of the business of the big

organization more specifically in film industry where the major chunk of

money is reaped out of the royalties arising out of the licensing and

assignment of copyrights in the respective works. Rather, it would not be

out of place to state that the royalties have become the backbone of the

film making machinery. The companies like the plaintiff and other

musical companies on one side earning royalities and thereon investing

the same funds in making the films. 24.2 One more stage of complexity has been attained by the

copyright law due to emergence of the virtual world of internet. The

internet computing has also brought many changes in our lives in stages.

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.43 of 132
 The era in 1990s saw the beginning of the computing internet, wherein,

the TCPIP internet and windows interface which was so user friendly due

to which we became conversant with the emails and network navigation.

Thereafter, in the year 2000 and later the type of computing changed and

it has been refined and set the benchmarks, there has been a sudden rise

in the markets of software be it accounting, designing, photo printing,

office using like notepads, gaming, chatting, user to user protocol, music

sharing programs like napster, kazaa etc.. All these software development

have further taught us that there is much more than emails and typing on

the computer and internet is very vast by which one can navigate in

several spheres of subjects and can share the data with other users.

24.3 The third and more advance stage of computing which we are

witnessing at this stage is the one wherein the level of internet computing

is established and there is a tendency to conduct business online. There is

a large segment of business models which are growing over the internet

wherein the users are participating actively and thereon the companies

are earning solely on the basis of the internet services by facilitating users

to share their contents which are attractive (which includes pictures,

motion pictures, films, songs, graphics, trailors, private communications

amongst the eminent personalities, scam disclosures etc) so as to make it

common to all and enabling them to view it easily by sitting at home. The

more prominent examples of this advance stage is utube, myspace,

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.44 of 132
 facebook etc. This is really an advance stage and there is no hesitation in

saying that it is a remarkable development wherein one can see motion

pictures with high quality graphics on internet which includes filming and

other mode of entertainment . 24.4 While facilitating the said sharing process over the internet,

the companies like the defendants are gaining business in the nature of

advertising, sponsorships, other like businesses which makes them

popular and run their show. This can be said to be one more way of

conducting business which is comparatively new in its field. The problem

however crept in when the content which is a subject matter of sharing on

the website operated by the companies are someone else‟s copyright or

proprietary material and not owned by the person or the user supplying

them. The question then arises, as to whether the said company by

providing the medium of sharing to the users and also gaining

commercially alongside the same can be said to have infringed the

copyright of the right holder. This court is faced with the similar kind of

situation wherein the defendants‟ said website operator and the plaintiff

is the right holder and the court is called upon to answer the said question

by applying the copyright law accordingly to this another mode of doing

business which has been innovated by the defendants in the virtual world

of internet. IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.45 of 132 25. Copyright and its meaning has been provided under Section

13 and 14 of the Act. The infringement of the copyright has been defined

under Section 51 of the Act. The said provisions are reproduced

hereinafter for the ease of reference: "14. Meaning of copyright- For the purposes of
 this Act, "copyright" means the exclusive right
 subject to the provisions of this Act, to do or
 authorise the doing of any of the following acts in
 respect of a work or any substantial part thereof,
 namely :- (a) In the case of a literary, dramatic or
 musical work not being a computer programme,- Provided that such commercial rental does not apply
 in respect of computer programmes where the
 programme itself is not the essential object of the
 rental.] (c) In the case of an artistic work,- (iii) to communicate the sound recording to the
 public

 Explanation - For the purposes of this section, a
 copy which has been sold once shall be deemed to
 be a copy already in circulation.]" includes any premises which are occupied mainly for other
 purposes, but are from time to time made available for hire
 to such persons as may desire to hire them for purposes of
 public entertainment" Section 26 : Secondary Infringement: provision
 of apparatus for infringing performance, etc

 (1) Where copyright in a work is infringed by
 a public performance of the work, or by the playing
 or showing of the work in public, by means of
 apparatus for - substantial part of it, is liable for the infringement if when he
 supplied the apparatus or part- the apparatus to be brought onto the premises is liable for
 the infringement if when he gave permission he knew or had
 reason to believe that the apparatus was likely to be so used
 as to infringe copyright. (4) A person who supplied a copy of sound recording
 or film used to infringe copyright is liable for the
 infringement if when he supplied it he knew or had reason to
 believe that what he supplied, or a copy made directly or
 indirectly from it, was likely to be so used as to infringe
 copyright." 29. By comparing the situation as exists in 1956 Act of UK and

1957 Act of India in the provisions, it becomes amply clear that the

wordings used in the Section of UK Act are "place of public

entertainment" but in Indian Act, the wordings used are "any place" 30. The situation becomes more clear as one further sees carefully

the later enactment of same nature in the UK CDPA Act of 1988 which

provides two kinds of infringements separately which are that the "place

of public entertainment" and "infringement caused by use of an

apparatus". This fine distinction which is present in the later Act of UK is

not present in the Indian Act. This would demonstrate that UK legislature

was conscious about the kinds of the infringement which are going to be

caused in the light of the development in the technology and mere

provision of facilitating the infringement at public place of entertainment

would not sufficiently cover the protection and the apparatus

infringement must be provided separately under the separate head.

Therefore, in the light of the same, the provision relating to providing

means by way of apparatus is further introduced in addition to the already

existing provision which relates to infringement relates to place of public

entertainment in the 1988 Act. 31. In the sharp contrast, our Indian Act which has been amended

number of times i.e. in 1984, 1994, 1999 which although provided for

several crucial amendments including computer programmes as a subject

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.54 of 132
 of copyright under the head of literary work but has not provided any

separate infringement by way of an apparatus under the separate head or

separately and the provision relates to the facilitating infringement is the

same as it stood in the 1957 Act. In absence of such amendment in the

Indian Act and in view of the loosely worded provision which is "any

place", the same can be given a wider connotation so as to include the

place on the internet not confining it to place of entertainment but to

extend it to other places also. 32. It is now well settled that when there are new technological

inventions or change in circumstances which was not in contemplation at

the time when the statute was enacted, the said invention or technological

advancement may be included in the same enactment if they are falling

within the same genus provided in the existing enactment. 33. The reference in this respect is invited to the decision of

House of Lords in Comdel Commodities Ltd vs. Siporex Trade SA,

(1990) 2 All ER 552, wherein Lord Bridge has said "When a change in

social conditions produces a novel situation which was not in

contemplation at the time when a statute is first enacted, there can be no

a priori assumption that the enactment does not apply to the new

circumstances. If the language of the enactment is wide enough to extend

to those circumstances, there is no reason why it should not apply."

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.55 of 132
 On the same principles, general words are construed as to

include new inventions and technological advances not known at the time

when the act was passed. The Photograph copy is held to be a copy

under the Engraving Copyright Act, 1734 in the case of Gambart v. Ball

(1863) 32 LJCP 166. Similarly telephone was not invented in 1869, even

then the telephone was held to be a telegraph under the provisions of Telegraphs Act 1863 in the case of A.G. vs. Edison Telephone Co of

London (1880) 6 QBD 244 referred in The Senior Electric Inspector

vs. Laxminarayan Chopra & Ors., AIR 1962 SC 159. 34. More Recently Hon‟ble Supreme Court in State of

Maharashtra vs. Praful B Desai (Dr. ), (2003) 4 SCC 601, has

accepted the evidence by way of video conferencing as a valid one where

the person being tried will satisfy the requirement of Section 273 of Code

of Criminal Procedure, 1973 when the technique of video conferencing

was not even developed. 35. In view of the same and also the fact that the provision

provides for permitting "any place" which itself is loosely worded and is

unfettered by any qualification, the said words "any place" have to be

construed widely so as to include the place at the webspace or internet in

order to give effect to the provision to be operative in cases of newer

kind of the infringements being caused at the webspace.

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.56 of 132 36. This is more so, in the absence of the specific provision

relating to infringement by way of apparatus, the law in that situation

cannot remain static witnessing the infringements which can be otherwise

covered under the Act. The provisions which can conveniently cover the

said acts must also be interpreted to include those new acts to make the

provision workable for the newer kinds of infringement to the extent the

wordings permit so. Therefore, the wordings "any place" under Section

51 (a) (ii) of the Act includes the place at the webspace in order to cover

the infringements or the wrongs caused at the webspace. 37. The proposition which emerges from the above discussion is

that there is an express provision under the Act which prohibits a person

from permitting any place including webspace for profit unless the said

person is having no knowledge or reason to believe that the

communication of the work is infringing in nature. 38. There is, however, another way of approaching the similar

kind of proposition which is popularly known as infringement by way of

authorization. This is done by interpreting Section 51 (a) (i) read with Section 14 of the Act. The said Sections are reproduced hereinafter: 39. By reading these provisions together, it can be seen doing the

acts of owner of copyright without permission or licence amounts to

infringement. The acts of owner are defined under Section 14 which

include doing or authorize doing the acts. Thus, by virtue of conjoint

reading one can say that the infringement of copyright can also be in the

cases where there are acts of authorizing the infringement by anyone

without permission. 40. The said concept of authorizing the infringement has been

succinctly discussed by Copinger & Skone James on Copyright

(Fourteenth Edition by Kevin Garnett M.A., Jonathan R. James, MA.

LLB, Gillian Davies, Ph.D., 1999 Edition, London, Sweet & Maxwell),

who is an authority on the subject in the following words: 41. It is noteworthy to mention that the said concept of

authorizing the infringement although looks akin to Section 51 (a) (ii) of

the Act but the said authorization does not coincide with the permitting

the place for profit. The concept of authorizing the infringement is rather

bigger and cannot be equated with merely facilitating the place for profit

which is the express provision of the law, which may be said to be one its

facets. The act of authorizing is something more than merely providing

means with knowledge and require further active participation of the

person than that of the permitting the place for infringement. This is due

to the reason that the grant of means to an infringement is different than

the granting the right to do the act of infringement.

41.1 Sometimes the infringement is not done directly but is done

indirectly by the authority of some person for instance where a person

handovers a pirated CD to a friend and also asks him to make number of

copies and sell them to the public on behalf of the former. In that

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.59 of 132
 situation, the former is authorizing infringement which he is doing

through another person. Both are parties to an infringement due to their

direct or active involvement. In this example, the person retains his

control where he can say to his friend to do or not to do the same on his

behalf. Besides that, the former person also has knowledge about the

pirated nature of the CD which is also relevant. Thus, it is an

authorization and it is not merely providing a means for infringement but

rather more than the same which is doing the infringement along with the

co infringer or under the authority of a person. 41.2 The act of authorizing infringement is premised on the

concept of joint tort feasors wherein the person is held liable for

commission of equal wrong when there is apparent clear establishment of

his involvement in the wrong along with the other person committing the

same. The active participation, inducement, approval or countenance, are

thus necessary ingredients of authorization may not be sine qua non for

the establishment of permission of place for profit. The knowledge of the

fact that the acts are going to be infringing is again different from the

active participation or any kind of inducement. 41.3 The knowledge is the starting point for authorization which is

going to be established unless the clear active participation or reasonable

degree of control is proved besides knowledge. But on the other hand the

same may not be true with permitting the place for profit wherein there is

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.60 of 132
 only knowledge which is sufficient and the further state of affairs may

remain irrelevant. Therefore, the onus of proof for establishing the

authorization is more onerous than that of the establishing facilitation for

profit. 41.4 This distinction between the two concepts is necessary in

order to better comprehend the subject which will make the evaluation of

arguments raised by the parties easier. 42. Now, I shall deal with the contentions of the parties raised by

them relating to the authorization and the applicability of Section 51 (a) (ii) of the Act. 43. It is the contention of learned counsel for the plaintiff that the

acts of providing the space over the internet and thereafter continuously

doing the same ever after coming to know about the plaintiff‟s

proprietary interests amounts to authorization as the defendants are aware

that the said space is going to be used for infringement purposes. As per

the learned counsel, the said acts become authorization as the defendants

retain the control and power to further distribute or communicate the

work to the public. The said thing is done by the defendants with

knowledge coupled with that of its own participation wherein it is

offering the works of the plaintiff to the public at large by enlisting the

works of the defendants in their search engine in such a way that when

someone types the name of a song or a movie, the same is easily

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.61 of 132
 available on the search results. Mr. Sibal has narrated the factors by

which the defendants are authorizing the infringement which can be

enumerated as under: All these factors as per Mr. Sibal are evidence of the degree

of control which the defendants can exercise and thus, the authorization

gets established once the defendants are found to be controlling the

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.62 of 132
 infringing activities and has its say in preventing them or controlling

them. 44. Mr. Sibal has also made submissions that the said acts

amounts to infringement as per the provision of Section 51 (a) (ii) of the

Act due to aforesaid reasons. 45. On the other hand, Mr. Kumar resisted the same by stating

that neither the said acts are authorization and nor the same are falling

under Section 51 (a) (ii) due to the following reasons: Therefore, once it is without knowledge coupled by no control

 over the works, the defendants cannot be held liable for

 infringement. c) The defendants have cited the safe harbor provisions of US law

 and lot of cases decided under English law (which has been

 commented on later in the judgment as at this stage, the issue of

 infringement is decided). IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.63 of 132 d) It is well established, that merely providing means for doing the

 acts which may be infringing, the person cannot be held liable for

 authorization and therefore, the defendants in the absence of clear

 establishment of its role in doing or promoting the infringement

 cannot be held liable for infringement. e) There are several measures or safeguards like notice and turn

 down and many more are already undertaken by the defendants

 and therefore, the defendants are not infringers. 46. I have examined the submissions of the parties carefully and

have gone through the plaint, written statement and documents filed by

the parties and after doing so, I am of the opinion that the acts of

defendants of providing the space on internet or webspace for profit are

prima facie infringing in nature. The reasons for my prima facie

observations can be discussed as follows:  The provision of Section 51 (a) (i) and Section 51 (a) (ii) of the Act are disjunctive in nature in as much as the word

 "or" between the two makes it clear that even on

 satisfaction of one provision, there would be an

 infringement of copyright. IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.64 of 132
  The infringement by way of authorization would fall within Section 51 (a) (1) read with Section 14 of the Act as

 against the act of permitting the place for profit which is

 separately provided under Section 51(a) (ii) of the Act.

  There is a distinction between the concept of authorization

 as well as the concept of permitting the place for profit and

 the essential ingredients for establishing the same are also

 different. Keeping these three propositions in mind, I have no hesitation to

state that the acts of the defendants whereby they are offering the space

over the internet, getting the works uploaded through users, thereafter

saving in their own database with the limited licence to add, amend, or

delete the content and thereafter communicating the said work to the

public by providing some advertisements alongside the work or in the

alternative gaining advertisements or sponsorships on the said basis

thereafter would prima facie tantamounts to permitting the place for profit

for infringement as envisaged under Section 51 (a) (ii) of the Act. b) The said acts of the defendants are certainly falling within the

 realm of an infringement under Section 51(a) (ii) of the Act. This is

 due to the reason that the defendants are permitting the place

 which is place at webspace to the users at large. The said place is

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.65 of 132
 not for the profit of the users only but also for the private profits or

 gains of the defendants. The defendants do not dispute that they

 are running the advertisement but their stand is that some

 advertisements are automatically appearing due to the search

 engines or key words which are typed by the users. The defendants

 although state that they are not advertising anything or earning

 anything due to the same. But, I am afraid that it is not the truth,

 the advertisements which are attached to movie clips or are

 displayed prior to the starting of the clip or after the movie clip is

 ended, are not the user provided or automatically emerging ones

 but are sponsored. There are third kind of advertisements which are displayed till the time work is being downloaded on the website and is ready to play, the said advertisements keep the user

 busy uptil the user reaches the definite target which is intended

 movie song or movie clips. All this happens only when the

 defendants permit this to happen and to the advantage of the

 defendants. Thus, the defendants are certainly earning profits or

 gains and not doing anything mistakenly or bonafidely without

 notice as contended by them. There is certainly complete element

 of commerce attached to it to increase the bandwidth of the

 users/customers and sponsorship and/or adds. Thus, the defendants

 are permitting the place for profit. IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.66 of 132 47. Now, the submission of the defendants that their acts are

without knowledge or no reasonable belief of infringement are, therefore,

would not fall within the Section 51 (a) (ii) but would be protected by the

later part of the Section is also meritless. It is also not difficult now to

answer the question of knowledge or reasonable belief which can be

immediately discerned due to following factual situations: 48. So far as the act of authorization is concerned, The said act

requires sanction, approval or countenance which are the wordings used

in English Judgments which are more than the mere act of knowledge. I

have already distinguished the authorization which would fall within Section 51 (a) (i) from that Section 51 (a) (ii) of the Act which expressly

provides knowledge or reasonable belief as only tests for satisfaction. I

shall now examine and test the acts of defendants on the principles of

authorization. The principles for satisfaction of authorization are laid down

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.71 of 132
 in various cases which are cited at bar. However, for the sake of brevity

the same can be culled out as follows: This means that the said action of sanction or approval

 requires more to be shown than mere knowledge ( Kindly

 see C.B.S. Inc. & C.B.S. United Kingdom v. Ames

 Records & Tapes Limited; (1981) RPC 407 (decided on

 13th February, 1981) where court used sanction and

 approval as the test). 2. The authorization has to be targeted to the identified

 persons so that the clear case is made out. (Although

 Copinger(Supra) differs from this view). 3. The authorization requires that the person must have the

 authority to permit the infringement in as much as the

 person giving the authorization must retain a control over

 the subject matter in order to call it as authorization.

 (Kindly see C.B.S. Songs Limited & Others vs. Amstrad

 Consumer Electronics Plc. & Another (House of Lords),

 (1988) RPC 567)

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.72 of 132 4. Merely providing means for infringement does not

 establish control and therefore the person cannot be said to

 have approved or countenanced such act. 49. Broadly English Courts have tested all the cases on these very

principles while attributing the liability over the infringers or in

alternative rejecting the case of infringement. Mostly, in cases relating to

newer means like tape recorder or in the cases of jukebox which are mere

means for providing recordings of songs, the courts in England or

common law have rejected the claims of infringement on the ground that

these are merely new means for recording and nothing more unless the

participation of providing the means must be shown towards the

infringement. Let me now examine the acts of the defendants on these

principles. 50. It was the contention of the defendants that no clear

establishment of their involvement is made out as the portal of the

defendants is such wherein every day there is much of data which is

being uploaded and thus the defendants could not be held liable for

authorization. Further, it has been said on behalf of the defendants that the

defendants are themselves cautious by putting notices on the internet by

calling upon to users not to upload infringing contents. It is also said that

the defendants are providing notice and turn down features which shows

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.73 of 132
 that the said acts are not emanating from the defendants. It is not the

defendants who are promoting those acts. 51. I have gone through the rival submissions of the parties.

While testing the acts of the defendants on the threshold principles

available under the common law, the doubts can be expressed at the

prima facie stage whether the plaintiff has completely discharged its onus

of proving as to whether the acts of communicating the musical works,

sound recordings are actuated by the countenance, approval or not. Mr.

Sibal has taken pains to inform this court that there is an element of

control which has been exercised by the defendants. However, I am not

fully satisfied whether the said factors enumerated by the Mr. Sibal

would sufficiently establish at this prima facie stage such degree of

control by the defendants which can also be called as approval or

countenance or sanctioning. No doubt, I have arrived at the prima facie

view that there is knowledge which is clearly present at this stage

wherein the defendants are aware what they are communicating. But the

act of approval or sanction requires, the defendants‟ participation,

exercise of control besides knowledge which I feel is a question which

can determined only at the time of trial as at this stage it is not clearly

emerging from the documents as to the state of affairs after the

knowledge which may be relevant for establishing the authorization .

This is also more so because the approval or sanction is required to be

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.74 of 132
 established particularly towards the present acts of infringement which is

difficult to comment upon at this stage. 52. In addition to the above, one more thing which needs to be

considered is that the defendants plead that the acts of the defendants are

not authorization, to which I have already answered the same at this

stage. However, once the plaintiff informs about the works owned by it

to the defendants, the said defendants thereafter attain knowledge not

only of the means to be used for infringement but also the knowledge

about the rights of the plaintiff. The necessary consequence which

follows from the same is that once the defendants are put to notice about

the rights of the plaintiff in relation to the particular works, thereafter the

defendants cannot continue to do the said acts in relation to the works for

which the details have been provided without the permission of the

plaintiff. In that event, the defendants after putting to notice immediately

steps into the shoes of the ordinary infringer under Section 51 (a) (i) of

the Act who is aware of the rights of the plaintiff (copyright owner) and

then the question of authorization becomes irrelevant and the acts are to

be adjudged from the standpoint of ordinary infringement. 53. The defendants have already stated in the written statement

that the arrangement done by the Division Bench is the possible solution

to this proposition arising in the present case. The defendants‟ counsel

has also stated that he would have no objection if the order passed by the

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.75 of 132
 Division Bench is continued. Thus, the defendant‟s acts are infringing in

violation of Section 51 (a) (i) of the Act once the defendants are put to

notice about the plaintiff rights in the respective works and in the event

the defendants do not turn down the same or allow the repetition to

happen. 54. In these circumstances, I am of the view that though the acts

of the defendants are prima facie infringing in view of the satisfaction of

provision of Section 51 (a) (ii) of the Act but the question of the

authorization requires further proof of participation which has to be

tested at the time of trial. Nevertheless, the defendants are infringing the

plaintiff‟s work as their acts are falling within the alternative or

disjunctive requirement for infringement under Section 51 (a) (ii) of the

Act. Further, the defendants‟ act may become infringing if the defendants

do not turn down or allow the repeated uploads to happen after put to the

notice about the plaintiff‟s rights in the said works.

Re: Jurisdiction 55. Now I shall deal with other submissions of the parties point

wise including the issue relating to jurisdiction. At the threshold, I would

like to state that I have held that this court has the jurisdiction and

therefore proceeded to decide the aspect of copyright infringement first. I

shall now discuss the reasons for arriving at the conclusion that this Court

has necessary territorial jurisdiction which are as under: 55.2 By mere reading of the provision of Section 62(2) of the Act,

it becomes amply clear that the suit for infringement can be filed at the

forum where the plaintiff resides or carries on business. The opening

words of the provision provides "Notwithstanding anything contained in

the code of civil procedure" which means that the said provision will

operate in addition to what has be provided in the Code of Civil

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.77 of 132
 procedure. Thus, the said provision enables the suit to be filed at the

place of the plaintiff which is the additional ground for attracting the

jurisdiction of the court. 55.3 This question is no longer res integra and put to rest by the

Supreme Court while examining the said provision in the case of Exphar

SA & Anr vs Eupharma Laboratories Ltd. & Anr , (2004) 3 SCC 688

wherein the Hon‟ble Court observed. Therefore, the plaintiff while it has initiated the said suit at the

forum where it is carrying on business has rightly initiated the suit in

compliance of the provision of Section 62(2) of the Act which is the

additional ground for attracting the jurisdiction. In these circumstances,

by operation of non-obstance clause, the principles relating to defendants

carrying on business or part of cause of action or subject matter becomes

irrelevant as the present case falls under the special provisions prescribed

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.78 of 132
 in the special statute. The said provisions under Section 62 are in addition

to and not in derogation or conflict with the general law as envisaged in the Code of Civil Procedure . Thus, the recourse of the defendants‟

counsel in relation to the principles of general law is misplaced.

55.4 The personal amenability of the defendants are therefore, not

relevant in case of suit for infringement wherein the jurisdiction is sought

to be invoked by way of provisions of the special enactment when it

provides for non obstante clause. The said non obstante clause thus

operate to its full extent and it cannot be said that there is a separate

question of personal amenability of the defendants to be in the forum

state which is still to be considered. 55.5 It is true that that to sue a foreign defendant in this country,

the foreigner either must be resident and or carry on business within the

jurisdiction of forum court. These are the principles applicable in private

International law. The only exception is if such party submits to the

jurisdiction. However the operation of this rule is not absolute but is

subject to the municipal law. 55.6 It is now well settled that when the municipal law provides

otherwise or overrides the private international law, then the municipal

law prevails over and above the principles of private international law.

The said principle has been comprehensively decided by Karnataka High

Court in Airbus Industries Vs. Laura Howell Linton, ILR 1994 KAR

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.79 of 132
 1370 wherein the Court has stated that even the provisions of Section 20 (c) of the Code of Civil Procedure which provides cause of action wholly

or in part overrides the private international law. The Madras High Court in Swaminathan v. Somasundaram

AIR 1938 Mad 731 in considering whether the Indian Courts have

jurisdiction over non-resident foreigners, it was held that even with

respect to non-resident foreigners, the Courts in British India have

jurisdiction in personam in suits based upon a cause of action arising in

British India.)

55.7 Thus, in the present case also even assuming that the rules of

private international law may have any role to play, the same stands

overridden by the express provision of the special act which is Copyright

Act, 1957 which speaks otherwise and entitles the plaintiff to sue at the

place of its own forum. 55.8 Secondly, the argument was advanced by the defendants

about the commission of torts outside India. The said argument is also

rejected as meritless. The commission of tort in the present case is in

India. The website of the defendants is one which is engaged in the

online business of providing and exhibiting the songs and cinematograph

films worldwide including India. The said website is usually accessed by

Indians for downloading the songs of upcoming movies from the website

of the defendants. The plaintiff has substantiated the cause of action by

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.80 of 132
 showing some instances of infringements which has been caused in

relation to the specific works. Thus, the said commission of the tort has

occurred or occurs in India wherein the Indian user goes to the website,

the defendants through its search engine exhibits the said works and the

work is communicated to the public by sending the work to him and

facilitating downloading or reaching to the computer of Indian user.

Similarly, conversely, when the Indian user shares the infringing work

with the defendants‟ website which goes into the servers of the

defendants and saved there after the uploading. The said actions are

sufficient to constitute part of cause of action under Section 20 (c) of the

Code of Civil Procedure. 55.9 In the first case, the tort or civil wrong is caused in India as

the aspect of downloading to the computer has been occurred in India

when the said work is communicated to Indian users without the

permission of the plaintiff. In the second case too, the initiation of the tort

or part of the same has occurred in India as the infringing work without

the authority of the plaintiff is communicated to the defendants with a

limited licence to further modify and communicate further. The said

commission of the acts or the part of the overt acts constitutes the part of

cause of action within the meaning of Section 20 (c) of the Code of Civil

Procedure. IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.81 of 132
 55.10 Section 20 (c) of the Code confers jurisdiction where the

cause of action wholly or in part arises. Thus, the court where the part of

cause of action will arise would have the jurisdiction to entertain and try

the proceeding like in the present case. So seeing from any standpoint be

from special act or general code of civil procedure, this court has

necessary territorial jurisdiction to entertain and try the proceedings.

However, the discussion to Section 20 (c) of the Code becomes merely

academic as the special act itself confers jurisdiction on this court by

operation of non obstante clause. Still, I have deemed it fit to discuss the

same in view of the categorical objections raised by the defendants on

jurisdiction. 55.11 Thirdly, the reliance of the judgment of the Division Bench in Banyan Tree (Supra) is equally misplaced by the defendants and thus

does not aid the case of the defendants at all. 55.12 It is a well settled principles the judgment is an authority of

what it decides and not for the proposition which can be logically

deduced therefrom. [The said proposition has been laid down by the

Supreme Court in Bharat Forge Co. Ltd. v. Utam Manohar Nakate (2005) I LLJ 738 SC ; M.P. Gopalakrishnan Nair and Anr. vs. State

of Kerala & Ors. : AIR 2005 SC2053]

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.82 of 132
 55.13. In Banyan Tree (Supra), the Hon‟ble Division Bench has

rightly reframed the issue in the following manner: 56. By mere reading of the question answered by the Hon‟ble

Division Bench, it becomes patently clear that the Hon‟ble Division

Bench was concerned with the question wherein a passing off action,

whether the jurisdiction of the court can be conferred by way of website

operation of the defendants or not, or the case of infringement where the

plaintiff is not carrying on business within the territorial jurisdiction of

the court. The apparent distinguishing features which make Banyan tree

case inapposite to the present case are outlined as under: The Plaintiff seeks to find the territorial jurisdiction of
 this Court in terms of Section 20(c) CPC. In other
 words, according to the Plaintiff the cause of action,
 wholly or in part, arises within the jurisdiction of this
 Court. This, according to the Plaintiff is on account of
 two factors. One, that the website of the defendants is
 accessible in Delhi; it is not a passive website but used
 for soliciting business in Delhi. Second, that there was
 at least one instance of the defendants‟ brochure being
 sent to a Delhi resident for the purposes of sale of
 property." Thus, the said distinction and the caveat expressed by the

 Division Bench itself is sufficient to exclude the present case from

 that of the operation of Banyan Tree Judgment as it stands a good

 law which it decides and cannot be extended to infringement cases

 which are governed by special provisions. c) Thirdly, assuming that the judgment of Banyan Tree (Supra) may

 be applied to the present case, even then the difference in the

 factual matrix further takes out the present case from the

 application of the said dicta. This is due to the reason in Banyan

 Tree 's case (supra), the court was concerned with the hotel

 services wherein there was tendency of booking online in the hotel

 from every place and thus the mere act of booking cannot be held

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.85 of 132
 to clothe jurisdiction on this court unless it forms a part of cause of

 action in the case whereas in the present case concerns with the

 activities of the defendants which are primarily web based which

 are interactive due to media presence, downloading, uploading and

 nothing else. The court propounded doctrine of purposeful

 availment in Banyan Tree 's case (supra) to show the nexus of the

 transaction with cause of action in the suit. In the sharp

 contradistinction to the same, the defendants in the present case

 are offering to show and communicating the Indian works to the

 Indian public with the interactive media inside and the user is able

 to view the same online, download it and use it and further

 communicate to public. The plaintiff has also substantiated the

 same by providing download of the sample infringement which are

 also forming part of cause of action. Thus, there is sufficient

 interactivity in the website which is aiming at the Indian users and

 shows nexus with the complaint with the suit where the plaintiff is

 directly aggrieved. The present case would be therefore, different

 from the case of Trade Mark infringement wherein some online

 transaction or a trap order is shown to clothe cause of action for

 the purposes of invoking jurisdiction. The present case relates to complaints arising directly out of

 the online acts and thus cannot be rejected on the counts of

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.86 of 132
 unconnected cause of action. Therefore, the Banyan Tree 's case

 (supra) is inapplicable in the present case and rather if the tests laid

 down in the same are applied, the present case sufficiently

 qualifies the tests of Banyan Tree (Supra). 57. Hence, for all these aforesaid reasons, this court will have

jurisdiction to entertain and try the proceeding. 58. The related argument as to jurisdiction was also raised by the

learned counsel for the defendants that this Court cannot exercise the

extra territorial jurisdiction as assuming jurisdiction would in this case

would mean exercising extra territorial jurisdiction. The said argument is

rejected as baseless and the reasons for variance are outlined as under: IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.88 of 132
 PROBABLE EFFECT OF AMENDMENTS UNDER THE IT ACT
2000 (AS AMENDED ON 2009) ON THE REMEDIES
PRESCRIBED UNDER COPYRIGHT ACT 1957. 59. Now I shall discuss another aspect of impact of the amended

provisions of Information Technology Act 2000 on the provisions of the Copyright Act inturn on the present case as it is the defendants‟

contention that the provisions of IT Act relates to internet related wrongs

and thus their acts are protected under the IT laws of India. 60. The submission has been advanced by the defendants that the

amendments made in 2009 in the IT Act, 2000 will have great impact on

the satisfaction of this Court for the purposes of grant or non grant of the

injunction against the defendants. The relevant sections of amended Act

relied upon by the defendants which according to the defendants will

enable the defendants to escape the liability of infringement are

reproduced hereinafter: means any information dealt with by an
 intermediary in his capacity as an intermediary." Section 81 of IT Act, 2000 reads as under : Section 2(w) of the IT Act defines intermediary as : 61. The submission advanced by the learned counsel for the

defendants is that the acts of the defendants are protected under Section

79 of the Act even if this court is not convinced by the argument of safe

harbor provisions of the Digitial Millenium Act of US as the provision

saves the liability of the intermediaries like the defendants. Thus, the

defendant‟s acts of providing means of infringement and all other acts

communicating the works to the public are mitigated by way of operation

of Section 79 of Information Technology Act, 2000 ( as Amended on

2009). The provision according to the defendants‟ counsel is non

obstante clause and thus will override the other acts.

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.91 of 132 62. Per contra, learned counsel Mr. Sibal has advanced the

argument that the provision of Section 79 of Information Technology Act,

2000 cannot be read in isolation and has to be read along with Section 81

which provides for the overriding effect of the Act. The said provisions

also enacts the proviso which is also inserted by way of amendment

which states that nothing contained in this Act shall restrict any person

from exercising any right conferred under the Copyright Act, 1957 or the Patent Act, 1970 . Thus, as per Mr. Sibal, the IT Act may override any

other law, but by way of operation of the proviso to Section 81, the rights

of the copyright owner cannot be curtailed by applying any other

provision of the IT Act . 63. I find that the provisions of Section 79 of the IT Act will have

no bearing on the liability of infringement on the defendants due to the

reasons entailed hereinafter: IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.92 of 132
 The proviso appended to the said section provides that

 nothing contained in this act shall restrict the exercising of right by

 any person under the Copyright Act . The said proviso carves out

 an exception to the main enactment which is under the head of

 overriding effect of the IT Act . 64. The scope and ambit of the proviso to the enactment has been

succinctly discussed by the Apex Court in State of Rajasthan v. Leela

Jain (1965) 1 SCR 276, wherein the Apex court has held : 64.1 In the case of Sales Tax Officer, Circle I, Jabalpur v.

Hanuman Prasad : [1967]1SCR831 , Hon‟ble Bhargava, J. observed : 64.2 Thus, the combine effect of reading Section 81 and the

proviso is that the provisions of IT act may override other laws for the

time being in force but the cannot restrict the rights of the owner under

the Copyright Act and the Patent Act. In other words, the rights of the

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.93 of 132
 owners under the Copyright Act, 1957 and/ or Patent Act, 1970 shall

remain unfettered by any of the provisions of IT Act .

64.3 Accordingly, Section 79 cannot restrict the rights of the

copyright owner by saving the liability of the defendants of the infringing

acts caused under the provisions of Section 51 (a) (ii) of the Act by

operation of proviso to Section 81 of the Act. b) Secondly, I am also doubtful that even if the provision of Section

 79 of the IT Act is applied to the present case, whether the

 defendants qualifies to get the benefit of the same under the IT Act .

 This is due to the reason that Section 79 although is a non obstante

 clause but is subject to Section 79 (2) and Section 79 (3) which

 provides the conditions of applicability and non applicability of the

 Section. The said Section 79 (2) (a) states that the Section will apply if

 the function of the intermediary is limited to providing access to a

 communication system over which information made available by

 third parties is transmitted or temporarily stored or hosted; or (b) the intermediary does not - (i) initiate the transmission, (ii) select the receiver of the transmission, and

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.94 of 132 (iii) select or modify the information contained in the

 transmission; (c) The intermediary observes due diligence while

 discharging his duties under this Act and also

 observes such other guidelines as the Central

 Government may prescribe in this behalf. 64.4 The use of the wordings "or" between (a) and (b) makes them

disjunctive, although (c) has to coexist with (a) or (b) whichever is

applicable. In the present case, the provisions of Section 79 (2) (a) is not

fulfilled as the function of the defendants is not confined to only provide

an access to communication system where the third party information is

stored, transmitted or hosted. But rather the defendants provides access

only after a limited licence to add or modify the work and thereon by

adding advertisements to the said works, modifying the works which

means permitting the place for profit with knowledge. The said acts are

thus of not those kinds prescribed under the provision of Section 79 (2) (a) which are of a limited role of merely providing an access to system

containing storage medium or transmission of the third party information. 65. The acts of the defendants also may not fall with Section 79

(2) (b) as the said situation prescribed in the provision has to be satisfied

conjunctively or collectively as the word used between the (i), (ii), (iii) is

"and" which means all the situations must be satisfied else, the said

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.95 of 132
 conditions in the provision are not met with. In the present case, the

defendant‟s acts do not satisfy the criteria of modification of information.

The defendants have attained the licence to modify the works provided

by the users suitably. The complaint of the plaintiff is that adding the

advertisement also infringes their rights. Thus, the act of modification of

the works by the defendants also excludes the defendants from the

purview of Section 79 (2) (b) of the Act. 66. The third condition of due diligence is also doubtful as the due

diligence is required while discharging his duties. Thus, if the defendants

are put to notice about the rights of the plaintiff in certain works, the

defendants should do preliminary check in all the cinematograph works

relating Indian titles before communicating the works to the public rather

than falling back on post infringement measures. The due diligence is

also not satisfied when the defendants uploads the contents of the user on

their server and then modify the same as per the limited licence to amend

from users. This means that the defendants have the chances to keep a

check on the works which defendants avoid so to the reasons best

known to them. The due diligence is thus also doubtful although

defendants contend for the satisfaction of due diligence. 67. From the above, it is also clear that the applicability of Section 79 is also not satisfied although by operation of proviso to

Section 81, the discussion on Section 79 is not really important. I do not

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.96 of 132
 also find my agreement with the submission of the defendants that there

will be harmonious construction between Copyright Act and IT Act if the

provision of Section 79 will save the liability of the copyright

infringement of the intermediaries like the defendants. I think rather

accepting the submission would lead to apparent disharmony or conflict

between the provisions of two Acts. This can be explained as follows: 68. Firstly it is well settled canon of construction that the court

should adopt the mode of construction which upholds the provisions of

the Act and make them workable and the interpretation which makes any

provision of the Act otiose must be eschewed. 68.1 In High Court of Gujarat and Anr. v. Gujarat Kishan

Mazdoor Panchayat and Ors. [2003] 2 SCR 799 , the Supreme Court

held as under : 68.2 If Section 79 of the IT Act is allowed to operate as an

embargo or restriction upon the exercise of the right of right holder by

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.97 of 132
 saving the liability of the copyright infringement, the said interpretation

will render proviso to Section 81 of the IT Act otiose or unworkable. The

said interpretation thus leads the purpose of the proviso as redundant. On

the contrary, if the gamut of the Section 79 is allowed to remain confined

and subject to the proviso of Section 81 which is intended to be so by the

legislature, both the provisions can stand and work in their respective

fields. 68.3 Section 79 is, thus, meant for all other internet wrongs

wherein intermediaries may be involved including auctioning, networking

servicing, news dissemination, uploading of pornographic content but not

certainly relating to the copyright infringement or patent infringement

which has been specifically excluded by way of proviso to Section 81 .

This can be only possible harmonious construction between the two Acts

which makes both the Acts workable. 68.4 Secondly, besides making proviso to Section 81 otiose, the

interpretation canvassed by the defendants lead to conflict between two

acts and also leads to absurd results. This is due to the reason that the Copyright Act, 1957 itself provides for an infringement as well as the

exceptions of the infringement. Once the infringement is established, the

remedies to the same are prescribed by Section 55 . In that situation and

given the fact that there is an express proviso excluding the copyright

infringement from the purview of IT Act if not applied leads to

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.98 of 132
 unnecessary adding further restrictions on the copyright infringements

which is impermissible and therefore leads to absurd results negating the

statutorily prescribed remedies for copyright infringement.

68.5 Further the provisions of authorization or permitting the place

for profit requires knowledge or reasonable belief and other common law

requirements for establishing the infringement as discussed above. Thus,

the said act of authorization and/or permitting the place for profit itself

requires knowledge and reasonable belief of infringement which are

inbuilt exception to the infringement, The operation of Section 79 to

exempt the liability of the intermediary except in cases of knowledge is

rather repetition of the same provision and if the same is allowed to

operate in the way of infringement which itself requires knowledge and

reasonable belief or countenance or approval in respective cases would

lead to anomalous situations and would lead to absurd results. 68.6 Thirdly, there is no legislative disharmony by operation of the

proviso to Section 81 and rather adding of proviso to Section 81 by way

of amendment put the unrest into an end. If Section 79 would have

application to the copyright infringement which saves absolutely the

liability of the intermediary without insertion of the proviso by the

legislature under Section 81 , then there would have been apparent

conflict between the acts of infringement by way of permitting the place

for profit provided under Section 51 (a) (ii) and Section 79 which saves

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.99 of 132
 the liability of the intermediary. Thus, without insertion of the proviso to Section 81 , there would have been two laws, one, providing the acts of

intermediary or facilitator as infringement and another saving the liability.

68.7 In Dwarka Prasad v. Dwarka Das Saraf [1976] 1 SCR 277.

Hon‟ble Krishan Iyer, J. speaking for the Court observed thus: IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.100 of 132
 IMPACT OF PROVISIONS OF DIGITAL MILLENIUM ACT OF
US AND OTHER ENGLISH LAW 70. Now I shall deal with the possible impact of Digital

Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA") of US and the other English

judgments cited by the parties. 71. The great stress has been laid on the judgments passed by US

courts in following cases which are passed on analyzing the provisions

of Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA"): 72. I have gone through the decisions passed by US Courts under

the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA") and I am of the

firm view, that there is no corresponding law which is in pari materia to

that of Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA"). The said Act

specifically addresses the issues relating internet related wrongs, however

our existing law of Copyright Act, 1957 does not provide any such safe

harbor provisions and rather the later enactment of IT Act, 2000 and its

new amendment in 2009 speaks otherwise which I have already

examined Section 81 of IT Act (as amended in 2009), proviso to which

excludes the operation of the IT law in cases of copyright infringement.

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.101 of 132 73. It is trite that the court cannot re legislate or add words into

the statute. this has been followed in Association for Development vs.

Union of India & Others , 2010 (115) DRJ 277 wherein this court

approved the literal rule and observed that ―it is not the duty of the court

to enlarge the scope of the legislation when the language of the provision

is plain and unambiguous. The court cannot recast or reframe the

legislation for the very reason it has no power to legislate. The court

cannot add words to a statute or reads words into it which are not there". 74. It is also well settled that the laws and the provisions which

are not pari materia cannot be compared. This has been followed in the

decision of the Apex Court in the case of Babu Khan vs. Nazim Khan (2001) 5 SCC 375). The following conclusion of Their Lordships is

relevant: (para 5)

 "5......It is true that the courts while construing a
 provision of an enactment often follow the
 decisions by the courts construing similar provision
 of an enactment in pari materia. The object behind
 the application of the said rule of construction is to
 avoid contradiction between the two statutes
 dealing with the same subject. But in the present
 case, what we find is that the Madhya Bharat Land
 Revenue and Tenancy Act contains one integrated
 scheme providing for remedy to a pucca tenant
 claiming restoration of possession under Section 91 and 93 of the Act. The Madhya Bharat Land
 Revenue and Tenancy Act was repealed by the
 M.P. Land Revenue Code. In the repealing Act i.e.
 M.P. Land Revenue Code we do not find any
 provision like Section 93 of the Act. We are,

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.102 of 132
 therefore, of the view that Sections 9 1 , 92 and 93 of the Act are not in pari materia with the provision
 of Section 250 of the M.P. Code. It is not a sound
 principle of construction to interpret a provision
 of an enactment following the decisions rendered
 on a similar provision of an enactment when two
 statutes are not in pari materia" Like in UK Act of 1956, permitting the place of public

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.105 of 132
 entertainment for profit is an infringement while in Indian Act of

 1957, permitting any place for profit are the wordings under Section 51 which has made the differences in the interpretation as

 discussed above. Similarly, in UK CDPA Act of 1988, there are separate

 infringements provided for place for public entertainment for profit

 in the form Section 25 and infringement by way of apparatus in the

 form of Section 26 . Further in UK Act of 1988 there are statutory

 indicators which excludes the liability of the persons under certain

 circumstances in cases of infringement by way of Appratus.

 However, Indian Act of 1957 remains the same with no such

 provisions. Thus, there is difference in provisions and the wordings

 which may ascribe difference meaning. This is also the reason for

 the English court to rely more on the concept of authorization. In

 the absence of pari materia provisions, the complete reliance on

 these decisions may not be useful. b) I have not based my conclusion regarding infringement on

 authorization (although I have analysed the tests relating to the

 same) as I have found that the same may require active

 participation besides knowledge which is a matter of trial and I

 have found that still the acts of the defendants are hit by the

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.106 of 132
 provisions of Section 51 (a) (ii) of the Act. In these circumstances,

 the decisions on authorization may become of less aid as the acts

 of the defendants are squarely covered under the express

 legislative provision. Accordingly, principally, I accept the decisions rendered on

authorization and tests laid down in the same and the same can be taken

into consideration for the purposes of deciding the acts of authorization

but may not be helpful in the cases involving the permitting the place for

profit which is a statutorily prescribed infringement.

RELIANCE ON INTERNATIONAL COVENANTS 79. Now, I shall be dealing with the submissions advanced by the

learned counsel for the defendants on the reading of International

covenants and adopting the same in interpreting the copyright law and

especially the internet related wrongs which is The WIPO Copyright

Treaty and its Article 8. It is also equally well settled that the international law and

covenants can be taken recourse of in the municipal law to the extent

they are not inconsistent with the municipal law and to fill the gaps in the

existing law. {This has been accepted by Supreme Court in Visakha &

Ors. vs. State of Rajasthan, (1997) 6 SCC 241)}

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.107 of 132 80. In the present case, the defendants themselves have informed

the Court that India has not even ratified the said convention. Thus, the

reliance on the said convention into Indian law is thus misplaced. Further,

The answer to this can be traced if one reads the judgment of Entertainment Network (Supra) more carefully wherein the court

discusses the extent to which the international covenants can be read into

the national law. The relevant paragraphs of the judgment are

reproduced hereinafter: 81. From the reading of the aforesaid, it is clear that the

international covenant wherein India is a signatory state can be utilized

for limited purposes of bridging the gap between national law and

international to the extent it is not repugnant with the national law. I am

doubtful as to whether any of the tests laid down by Supreme Court are

fulfilled in the present case in order to enable this court to consider the

international covenant relied upon by the defendants. Firstly India has not

ratified the said convention as per the defendants, thus there is no

international obligation which is to be respected in the present case.

Secondly, the defendants‟ counsel wants this court to read into the

following statement to their benefit: 82. There is no disputing this proposition and I have in the

preceding paragraphs of my judgment laid down this proposition that

merely providing means does not amount to authorization. But this

statement as such cannot be read into due to the non fulfillment of

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.110 of 132
 principles which enables this court to read into the international

covenants. 83 This statement is neither bridging any gaps in the law and is

rather part of the statute in India where permitting the place for profit is

an infringement and not providing mere means. The reading of this

statement itself may not aid the case of the defendants in any event and,

thus, I am not convinced and also not sure as to what aid the defendants

intend to draw from reading of this article from the convention. This also

does not affect the invocation of the provision of Section 51 (a) (ii) of the

Act basing upon which I have found prima facie view of the infringement. 84. The submission has been made by the learned counsel for

defendants that the defendants‟ acts of providing the tools relating to

notice and turn down provisions are sufficient safeguards and amounts to

due diligence which should be considered to be a mitigating factor

against the grant of the injunction as the defendants are taking curative

measures against the possible infringement. 85. I have gone through the submission advanced by the learned

counsel for the defendants and I reject it being meritless. This is due to

following reasons I find that the said post infringement measures may not

be prima facie sufficient safeguards for the infringements: c) Thirdly, there are no safeguards provided under the Copyright Act for the infringement in the cases like the present one wherein there

 is a knowledge and exercise of due diligence post infringement.

 Rather, the conjoint reading of Section 51 of the Act and proviso

 to the Section 55 of the Act makes it clear that the knowledge or

 no notice of the infringement can only assist the defendants in

 resisting the damages and not the injunction. However, in some

 cases like the present one under Section 51 (a) (ii) of the Act, lack

 of knowledge can save the liability of infringement as the same is

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.112 of 132
 the ingredient of the Section. But certainly, there is no provision

 which can save the liability when there is an apparent knowledge

 and exercise of due diligence post infringement. I have already

 formed an opinion that the defendants are aware and has

 reasonable belief of infringement and thus the exercise of due

 diligence after the infringement cannot operate in favour of the

 defendants to escape the liability. d) Fourthly, if there is any due diligence which has to be exercised in

 the event of absence of any provision under the Act, the said due

 diligence must be present at the time of infringement and not when

 the infringement has already occurred so that the infringement can

 be prevented at the threshold and not when the same has already

 occurred. The post infringement measures like the ones informed

 by the defendants which are in compliances of US statute may hold

 good in US due to the legislative measure but the same are not

 operative in India. Such post due diligence on the ground of some

 inherent helplessness which the defendants are pleading only

 because they are sitting on internet or cyberspace may not be

 correct as the law does not exclude cyberspace from its purview to

 do infringements there. The defendants have sufficient means to

 modify the work by taking licenses from the users, adding

 advertisements to the works of the plaintiff. Consequently, the

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.113 of 132
 effective means for pre infringement enquires are also necessarily

 have to be performed by the defendants only. If the defendants

 state that there no means to do so due to some impossibilities, the

 defendants must take preliminary measures at the time of

 modification of the works and prior to making them available to

 the public so as to ensure that the same does not infringe any ones

 copyright. 86. It gives me no hesitation to state that the compulsion which

the defendants are pointing out of lack of corrective measures at the first

instance due to multiplicity of the works or uploads and also the

diversified business of the defendants is not only the plea taken by the

defendants for the first time in any infringement action relating to

copyright infringement. It is rather applicable to any case of infringement.

Take for instance, the case of music library or shop selling movies for

hire wherein the defendants take the plea that due to multiplicity of

numbers or titles, one cannot identify the pirated ones from the originals.

But this kind of argument or plea cannot preclude the labour or burden

which the defendants ought to have exercised while taking into the

possession the pirated titles by enquiring as to whether they are belonging

to the owner or emanating from owner or not. The situation will become

more complex when the same movie seller or person giving for hire will

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.114 of 132
 start keeping the international titles like Hindi Movies, English Movies,

French Movies and Pakistani titles. The said labour then increases

manifold and the said justification also gains more strength when he says

that the due to several sources, it becomes virtually impossible to keep a

hold of the each and every title whether original or duplicate. Even if the

said person states that once it is brought to his notice by the customer or

the owner that it is an infringement, he immediately removes the said title

from the library or the shop. The said acts cannot save him from the

liability of the infringement. 87. Likewise in the present case, the labour or the due diligence is

the enquiry by the defendants themselves to be exercised. The nature of

portal due to which the defendants feels helpless is of less avail to

mitigate the liability unless there is a statutory exemption to that effect

(like in Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA"). The defendants

can do many things to stop this, first that it can enquire at the stage when

the defendants modify the works, at that time the defendants can enquire

about the titles of the work and about ownership, secondly at the time of

the uploading by the user, the content should not immediately made the

available to the public, the defendants can put them to the halt subject to

enquiries of the titles or authentication of the proprietor and thereafter

make them available to the public. IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.115 of 132 88. There is no reason to axiomatically make each and every

work available to the public solely because user has supplied them unless

the defendants are so sure that it is not infringement. If the defendants

cannot exercise diligence of this nature, the necessary inferences can be

drawn is that the defendants are making itself liable for infringement by

its inactions to enquire about the source of the works at the appropriate

stage. 89. Thus, even if the post infringement measures which may be

acceptable in certain legal systems due to the specific legislations may

not be hold good in India when the statute in India does not culls out any

such exception as mitigating factor. 90. Now I shall be discussing the argument raised by the counsel

for the parties on the reliefs. The extensive submissions have been made

at the Bar about the nature of the relief. 91. Mr. Sibal has submitted that the present case warrants

complete interim injunction in terms of the prayers made in interim

application wherein the defendants can be restrained from communicating

the plaintiff‟s works to the public as the current arrangement as directed

by Division Bench is not sufficiently protecting the rights of the plaintiff.

Mr. Sibal states that the current arrangement enables the infringement to

first happen and then comes corrective action which is belated in cases of

internet wrongs therefore, the plaintiff seeks more directions from this

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.116 of 132
 Court so that the defendants do not infringe the works of the plaintiff.

Mr. Sibal submits that even the order of Division Bench itself states that

the same is tentative and cannot come in the way of deciding the

injunction application. 92. On the other hand, Mr. Kumar has submitted that the

injunction in terms of the prayers made in the interim application cannot

be granted due to following reasons: Thus, the defendants contend that the injunction of such

 nature is difficult to comply which necessitates non grant of such

 order which cannot be enforced. 93. I have examined the submissions of the parties on the issue of

grant of wider relief which has been mentioned in the Interim application.

I am of the opinion that the court is not powerless to protect the interest

of the party in cases involving civil wrongs when it involves recurring

infringements or infractions. I shall now proceed to discuss the reasoning

to this effect: The said submission is also misplaced and rejected as meritless.

93.3 The principle of quia timet is applicable to any tortuous

liability wherever there is an apprehension of infringement likely to

happen. This can be seen even in the cases of trespass where the

injunctions are sought even when there is threat of invasion in the

property of someone. The principle of quia timet has been explained by

John George Woodroffe in his book "The Law Relating to Injunctions" 93.4 Likewise, Hugh Laddie in his book titled as "The Modern

Law of Copyright" by Laddie, Presscott & Victoria at p. 405 observes

about the nature of relief which can be sought in relation to infringements

by way of authorization like in the present case in the following words: 93.5 In Fletcher v Bealey, {1885] 28.Ch.D.688 the principles that

should be followed by a Court when dealing with an application for an

injunction quia timet when infringement of the plaintiff's rights is only

apprehended were succinctly laid down by Pearson, J. who said as

follows at page 698: 93.6 Thus, the submission that this court cannot prevent future

wrongs on the basis of quia timet injunction is also not correct as it is

equally applicable to infringement of copyright like in any other tortuous

act. Accordingly, the plaintiff is entitled to relief on the basis of quia

timet action as the defendant‟s nature of activities is such where the

plaintiff‟s works is liable to infringe and more so when the defendants are

notified about the plaintiff‟s several works. The said danger of

infringement is imminent risk of substantial damages with certainty as

the defendants have already done several infringements and will continue

to do so in the light of the continuous acts of the defendants. The

plaintiff‟s interest is also to be protected against such infractions which

are possible by way of injunction and any court jurisdictionally

competent can grant the relief prayed for quia timet action.

93.7 Secondly, the submission of the defendants that the injunction

order of the nature wherein the defendants are restrained from infringing

the plaintiff‟s works in general cannot be granted as the defendants must

know for what the defendants are restrained is also not correct. If the

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.122 of 132
 defendants at this stage are already notified about the plaintiff‟s works

for the purposes of notice and turn down provisions and is also conscious

of the fact that the plaintiff owns most of Hindi movie titles and its

copyright, there cannot be anything specific than stating that the

defendants are restrained from using the works of the plaintiff.

93.8 It is only the apprehension of the defendants that they could

not trace out the ownership of the plaintiff in each and every work.

However, if one sees carefully the application of the notice and turn

down facility provided by the defendants wherein the owners are chasing

the infringers for turning their infringements down from the website as

against the infringers chasing the owners, the problem of infringement

can be resolved by applying the same conversely wherein infringers must

legitimize the acts with the owners prior to committing any such

infringements. This can be done only by the order of the court of

prohibitory nature wherein the prior notice to the owners and steps to find

ownership can be taken by the defendants by taking preventive actions

prior to infringements. 93.9 These apprehensions of the defendants about inability of

enforce or implement the order of this court are unfounded. Further, the

concern of the defendants that their website hosts the acts which are

infringing as well as non infringing and it is difficult to segregate all this

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.123 of 132
 and rather impossible is also unmeritorious. Such concerns are taken care

by the courts while granting injunctions in copyright infringements.

93.10 In Garware Plastics and Polyester Ltd. and Ors. etc. v.

Telelink and Ors. etc.; AIR 1989 Bom 331 wherein Hon‟ble Bombay

High Court had examined this kind of concern wherein the court

observed that it is true that there are certain places like hotels where there

are private viewings as well as public viewings, some of which are

infringement and some are not. But still, the court proceeded to grant the

injunction against the defendants from infringing the plaintiff‟s works in

respect of which the plaintiff is the owners and/or assignees of copyright

without obtaining an assignment of the same from such owners and

assignees or a licensee under the Copyright Act, 1957 .

93.11 Similarly in the cases involving mass infringements like the

cases instituted by Performing Rights Society, Phonographic Societies

which not only espouse the cause of one copyright owner but is a

collective action, the mere fact of non crystallization of all the

infringements does not preclude the courts from granting the injunctions

basing on the prima facie ownership of the plaintiff‟s works and sample

infringements. All these injunctions are being granted by this court from

time to time. Thus, this concern of the defendants has no meaning and the

injunction of the nature asked by the plaintiff cannot be faulted with

considering the acts of the defendants which are infringing in nature and

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.124 of 132
 the equal level of certainty with which the future infringement may arise.

93.12 Thirdly, the submission that this court cannot grant injunction

in view of the Section 14 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. I am of the

opinion, that the Section 14 of the Act puts no embargo for the grant of

the relief in the present case. This is due to the following reasons: 94. More importantly, if the plaintiff files separate suits for

number of infringements, the moot question is whether the said acts can

be monitored in that case or not. The answer to my knowledge is in

affirmative. If that is, so then it can be monitored now also by directing

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.126 of 132
 the defendants not to do the infringing acts. It would be rather futile

exercise to relegate the plaintiff to file separate suits after perfection of

infringements and allowing the defendants to continue to ride over the

works of the plaintiff till that time. 95. The challenge to the assignment deeds which has been made

by the defendants are only confined to the defects in the respective

assignment pointed by the defendants. The said defects in the

assignments are disputed by the plaintiff by stating that the said

assignments are proper and are in order which can be furnished before

the court. All this is more of a question of trial at the time of evidence. At

this stage, for the purposes of forming a prima facie opinion, the

assignments filed with documents are taken as correct as no contrary or

no cogent evidence to disprove the same has been placed on the record

by the defendants. On the basis of the documents, it can be stated that the

plaintiff is the owner of copyright, otherwise no one would have executed

the assignment deeds. Therefore, the title of the ownership of the plaintiff

is sufficient to form prima facie view. Accordingly, this court is not precluded from passing interim order

in terms of the prayers made in IA No.15781/2008 whereby the

defendants can be restrained from infringing the copyrighted works of the

plaintiff online by permitting place for profit. No further submission

remains unanswered. IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.127 of 132 96. The principles for the grant of temporary injunction have been

succinctly discussed in Dalpat Kumar & Anr. vs. Prahlad Singh &

Ors. ; AIR 1993 SC 276 wherein the apex court has stated that for the

purposes of grant of temporary injunction, the court must test the case of

the parties on threefold tests: 97. The plaintiff has been able to make out a prima facie case as

the plaintiff is the owner of the copyright in the works enumerated in the

plaint. The plaintiff has also been able to establish prima facie that the

acts of the defendants are infringing in nature as the same are permitting

the webspace or place on internet for profit. The prima facie case thus is

in favour of the plaintiff. The balance of convenience lies in favour of the

plaintiff as the defendants would be less inconvenienced if they are

directed to not to infringe the plaintiff‟s works as it is their own case is

that the defendants are doing business from multifarious jobs on internet

and the works of the plaintiff is no means of profit. As against the same,

the plaintiff is totally dependants upon its works for the purposes of

royalties, reaping fruits of its copyright for further investments etc. thus,

the plaintiff would be more inconvenienced if its works are continued to

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.128 of 132
 be exploited for profit without its permission. The irreparable loss would

also ensue to plaintiff if the works of the plaintiff are allowed to be made

public for permitting the place on internet for profit as against the

defendants who will loose nothing more than users on internet which as

per themselves are trivial part of their business model. 98. Consequently, the present case warrants the grant of interim

injunction for the purposes of prevention of infringement of the plaintiff‟s

works. However, this court is not precluded from granting the interim

relief in the moulded form so that the infringement can be prevented

which is in fact the relief asked by the plaintiff in its interim application.

Accordingly, the following interim directions and orders are passed: Accordingly, the defendants shall delete the works of the

 plaintiff as and when the plaintiff provides the details of its

 songs and films which have been uploaded on the web-site

 of the defendants, the defendants shall immediately take

 remedial measures to remove the same from its website not

 later than one week from the date of such communication. c) Further the defendants are also directed to verify from the

 plaintiff independently without waiting the direction under (b) to be complied with by the plaintiff on their own by

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.130 of 132
 other means continuously or through its India centric

 operations about the ownership status or updations in the

 works of the plaintiff and shall do their honest endeavours

 on their own to remove the offending content or infringing

 works immediately after the gaining the said knowledge. d) In relation to the works of the plaintiff which are already

 turned down once by the defendants, the defendants are

 restrained from further allowing the continuation of the

 uploadings or its existence on its website of the same works

 which have already been turned down/ deleted by the

 defendants at the behest of the plaintiff request. This has

 been already stated by the defendants by explaining their

 various tools for preventing infringement wherein the

 defendants possess the necessary tools and the technology

 which identifies and prevents the repetitions in infringements

 after its first posting and deletion. Accordingly, the

 defendants are directed to ensure the deletions and the

 preventions of repetitions on their own after putting to notice

 by the plaintiff about the works by availing their own tools

 and not by the calling the plaintiff to do this by some

 subscription. IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.131 of 132
 In this way, the parties in the interim can prevent the

infringements and its occurrence on the website of the defendants till the

disposal of the suit. The orders passed in the interim applications are

tentative in nature and does not come in the away of the court at the time

of hearing of the matter after the completion of the trial. 99. Consequently, the plaintiff‟s application being IA

No.15781/2009 (U/o 39 R 1 & 2 CPC ) is allowed and defendants‟

application being IA No.3085/2009 (U/o 39 R 4 CPC ) is dismissed with

cost of Rs.20,000/-. 100. IA No.15781/2009 and IA No.3085/2009 are accordingly

disposed of. CS (OS) No. 2682/2008 List on 16th August, 2011 for direction. MANMOHAN SINGH, J

JULY 29, 2011

IA Nos.15781/2008 & 3085/2009 in CS(OS) No. 2682/2008 Page No.132 of 132