"Accordingly, banks and FIs started reporting all cases of wilful defaults,
which occurred or were detected after 31st March 1999 on a quarterly
basis. It covered all non-performing borrowal accounts with outstandings
(funded facilities and such non-funded facilities which are converted into
funded facilities) aggregating Rs.25 lakhs and above identified as wilful
default by a Committee of higher functionaries headed by the Executive
Director and consisting of two GMs/DGMs. Banks/FIs were advised that
they should examine all cases of wilful defaults of Rs. 1.00 crore and above
for filing of suits and also consider criminal action wherever instances of
cheating/fraud by the defaulting borrowers were detected. In case of
consortium/multiple lending, banks and FIs were advised that they report
wilful defaults to other participating/financing banks also. Cases of wilful
defaults at overseas branches were required be reported if such disclosure
is permitted under the laws of the host country." 2.1 above: "3. Grievances Redressal Mechanism

Banks/FIs should take the following measures in identifying and reporting
instances of wilful default: The concerned borrower should be provided reasonable time (say 15 days)
for making representation against such decision, if he so desires, to a
Grievance Redressal Committee headed by the Chairman and Managing
Director and consisting of two other senior officials. (iv) Further, the above Grievance Redressal Committee should also give a
hearing to the borrower if he represents that he has been wrongly classified
as wilful defaulter. (v) A final declaration as 'wilful defaulter' should be made after a view is
 taken by the Committee on the representation and the borrower should be
 suitably advised." "4. Criminal Action against Wilful Defaulters

 "4.1 J.P.C. Recommendations

 Reserve Bank examined, the issues relating to restraining wilful defaults in
 consultation with the Standing Technical Advisory Committee on Financial
 Regulation in the context of the following recommendations of the JPC and
 in particular, on the need for initiating criminal action against concerned
 borrowers, ..." "5.1 Need for Ensuring Accuracy

 RBI/CIBIL disseminate information on non-suit filed and suit filed
 accounts respectively, as reported to them by the banks/FIs and
 responsibility for reporting correct information and also accuracy of facts
 and figures rests with the concerned banks and financial institutions.
 Therefore, banks and financial institutions should take immediate steps to
 up-date their records and ensure that the names of current directors are
 reported. In addition to reporting the names of current directors, it is
 necessary to furnish information about directors who were associated with
 the company at the time the account was classified as defaulter, to put the
 other banks and financial institutions on guard. Banks and FIs may also
 ensure the facts about directors, wherever possible, by cross-checking with
 Registrar of Companies." The petitioners refer to divers provisions of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949 and contend that Sections 5A, 8 , 9 , 10A and 10BB of such Act confer
absolute authority on the Reserve Bank to control and monitor the business and
affairs of every banking company. The petitioners say that from the very
inception of banking business by a bank to the manner in which such business
would be conducted and the all-pervasive directions and powers of the Reserve
Bank which a bank is subjected to, demonstrate the extraordinary, sweeping and
omnibus authority of the Reserve Bank; such that every bank would be a state or
authority within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution. The petitioners
place Section 22 of the Act that mandates a previous licence to be obtained
before any banking business can be commenced; the extent of control exercised
 by the Reserve Bank under Section 23 ; the wholesome directions that can be
issued by the Reserve Bank under Section 35A; the incisive powers available to
the Reserve Bank under Section 36 ; the authority of the Reserve Bank to remove
managerial and other officers under Section 36AA; and, the power vested in the
Reserve Bank to appoint directors in banking companies under Section 36AB. The petitioners cite a judgment reported at 98 (2002) DLT 234 ( Delhi Stock
Exchange v. K.C. Sharma ) and rely on paragraphs 31, 32, 40 and 61 thereof to
suggest that if a stock exchange run by its independent board or committee can
be found to be amenable to the writ jurisdiction by virtue of the control exercised
over it by statutory authorities, the same test should hold good for any bank. The
Delhi High Court's view that the stock exchange was a "state" within the meaning
of Article 12 of the Constitution was upheld by the Supreme Court in the
judgment reported at (2005) 4 SCC 4 ( K.C. Sharma v. Delhi Stock Exchange ). The
relevant paragraphs from the High Court judgment provide: A similar view taken by the Bombay High Court which found the Bombay
Stock Exchange to be amenable to the writ jurisdiction, reported at AIR 1991
Bom 30 ( Sejal Rikeen Dalal v. The Stock Exchange, Bombay ), has been placed by
the petitioners. An unreported Division Bench judgment of the Calcutta High Court in MAT
No. 533 of 2002 and FMA No. 254 of 2002 ( C. Mackertich Ltd. v. Custodian )
delivered on July 19, 2002 is cited in the same context where the question as to
whether the Calcutta Stock Exchange was amenable to the writ jurisdiction was
left open. Another judgment reported at AIR 1997 Cal 18 ( Overland Investment
Ltd. v. State of Bengal ) is placed by the petitioners to show that if an investment
company could be found to be amenable to the writ jurisdiction because of the
public element in the affairs of such company, any bank functioning under the
 Reserve Bank's ultimate control should also be seen in the same light. Paragraph
48 of the report is relevant: The next judgment reported at (2003) 10 SCC 733 ( Federal Bank Ltd. v.
Sagar Thomas ) that the petitioners have brought is also relied upon by the
private bank. The key dramatis personae in these proceedings attempt to cling on
to some of the sentences in the judgment in furtherance of their opposing
contentions. The first respondent before the Supreme Court was the manager of
a branch of the appellant bank who was suspended and later dismissed following
a disciplinary inquiry. The manager challenged the order of dismissal in a
petition under Article 226 of the Constitution. The bank's preliminary attempt to
ward off the challenge was by citing its private status. The issue was answered
against the bank at both stages in the High Court. In course of the Supreme
Court allowing the appeal, it observed thus at paragraphs 32 and 33 of the
report: The petitioners submit that this is the only forum that they could have
approached in respect of the matters complained of. An action in tort, according
to them would not be an appropriate remedy. They rely on a passage from
Salmond and Heuston on the Law of Torts (20th ed.) and a judgment reported at
(2006) 13 SCC 706 (M.P. Mathur v. DTC) to say that a suit on the same cause of
action would necessarily be founded on equity and leave them to the vagaries of
the court's discretion. A passage from paragraph 14 in M.P. Mathur is placed: The petitioners claim that a suit would not be an appropriate remedy,
particularly considering the repercussions of a finding of willful default under the
 master circular. They submit that even if a banker-customer relationship is
presumed in the present case, the petitioners cannot claim that the bank owed
any duty as a trustee to the petitioner company. For such principle, they rely on
the judgment reported at (2008) 5 SCC 201 (KCC Software Limited v. Director of
Income Tax (Investigation)). The petitioners refer to an unreported judgment of the Madras High Court
in WP Nos. 32502, 36764, 36782, 37150, 37197 and 37739/2003 and 1421,
8809 and 11180/2004 (V. Kannappan and 19 Ors. v. Additional Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Company Affairs,) delivered on November 26, 2008 where
employees of Bank of Madura were allowed to maintain a petition under Article
226 of the Constitution against ICICI Bank Limited into which Bank of Madura
had merged. The bank here says that it owes no statutory duty to the petitioners. The
bank contends that the fact that its affairs or functioning may be regulated by
any authority would not make it amenable to the writ jurisdiction. The bank
submits that there is a private contract between the bank and the petitioner
company which governs the relationship between such parties; such contract is
not statutory. There was no obligation on the part of the bank to enter into such
contract. The bank claims that in its declaring the company to be a willful
defaulter it discharged no statutory or public duty. The bank refers to a decision rendered by a Single Judge of the Kerala High
Court reported at (1988) 64 Comp Cas 399 ( K.M. Sethumadhavan v.
Dhanalakshmi Bank Ltd. ) where it was held that a banking company having a
private capital structure, and whose profits go to the private pockets of its
shareholders and not to the public exchequer, would not be a state or authority
within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution. The bank says that for a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution to
be maintained against a private body, it must be only for the purpose of securing
 the performance of a public duty. The bank argues that if the source of the power
exercised in the impugned conduct is contractual then it has to be assessed as to
whether any duty was cast on it by a statute or by public law since the remedy in
this jurisdiction is only in public law. A judgment reported at (2005) 6 SCC 657 ( Binny Ltd. v. V. Sadasivan ) is
placed by the bank to bring clarity on the issue. Two sets of proceedings were
considered in that judgment. The respondents in the lead matter instituted a
petition under Article 226 of the Constitution for a declaration that a particular
clause of a contract of service was void and the termination based thereon was
illegal. The writ petitioners in that matter contended that the agreements with
the appellant before the Supreme Court were in violation of Article 21 of the
Constitution and the closure of the mill was in derogation of Sections 25F and 25N of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. They sought their reinstatement with
continuity of service and consequential benefits. The company raised a question
of maintainability of the writ petition. In the second matter also decided by such
judgment the appellant was employed as a corporate legal manager of a private
limited company engaged in the manufacture of chemicals. Such appellant's
services were terminated and he invoked the writ jurisdiction for quashing the
order of termination and sought a mandamus for the company to restore his
employment in the same grade and pay scale to which he was entitled at the time
of termination. The company questioned the maintainability of the proceedings.
The important issue reached a Full Bench of the Bombay High Court that held
that the writ petition was not maintainable. Paragraphs 11 and 29 of the report
enunciate the applicable principles: There cannot be any general definition of public authority or public action.
 The facts of each case decide the point." The bank says that the source of the power exercised by its grievance
redressal committee is the contract between the parties and the banker-customer
relationship that such contract brought in. It claims that the Federal Bank
judgment would demonstrate that a private bank was per se not be amenable to
the writ jurisdiction. The next decision cited is reported at (2006) 4 MLJ 385 ( Nadar Mahajana
Sangam v. Reserve Bank of India ). A society instituted a writ petition complaining
primarily against a scheduled bank incorporated under the Companies Act . The
society alleged that its members were beneficially interested in certain shares of
the bank which the bank and its directors had attempted to transfer to third
 parties in violation of the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank. The relevant
discussion is found in paragraphs 6 and 10 of the report: A Full Bench decision of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court reported at
2006 (2) JKLJ 146 ( Firdous Ahmad Tanki v. J and K Bank Ltd. and State of J and
K ) is next cited by Kotak Mahindra Bank where the reference before the Full
Bench was as to whether the Jammu and Kashmir Bank Limited was a state or
authority within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution and amenable to
the writ jurisdiction. The Full Bench held that despite the regulatory provisions
exercised by the Reserve Bank over any scheduled or other bank, it would not
imply that every bank would be amenable to this jurisdiction. Paragraphs 61, 65
and 68 of the report have been relied on: (b) The Bank does not perform any public duty or public functions while
 dealing with its employees or carrying out its normal commercial and
 business activities as a Banking Company so as to make it amenable to
 writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India read with
 Section 103 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir." The bank refers to (1963) 2 SCR 297 ( Shanti Prasad Jain v. Director of
Enforcement, FERA ) and AIR 1968 Cal 371 ( Major General Mahabir Shum Sher
Jung Bahadur Rana v. Lloyds Bank Ltd. ) for the principle that the relationship
between a banker and its customer is one of debtor and creditor and not of
trustee and beneficiary. The bank argues that if such is the relationship, there
can be no element of public duty and it would be purely in the realm of private
law. The bank insists that its impugned decision emanates from the contract
with the petitioner company and refers to the more substantial disputes between
it and the company that are already pending before the City Civil Court and in
the arbitration reference. On the aspect of maintainability, the Reserve Bank has referred to a
passage from Judicial Remedies in Public Law by Clive Lewis (3rd Ed.) where the
author has commented on the view taken by the Court of Appeal in England that
the decisions of bodies who acquire jurisdiction over individuals by contract are
 excluded from the ambit of judicial review. The author has discussed the Aga
Khan case reported at (1993) 1 WLR 909 (Regina v. Disciplinary Committee of the
Jockey Club, Ex parte Aga Khan), which the Reserve Bank cites. The Jockey Club, which was incorporated by a Royal Charter, regulated
horse racing in Britain and all race meetings had to be licensed by such club and
run under its rules. An owner wishing to race horses was required to register
with the club and enter into a contractual relationship by which he expressly
submitted to the rules of the club and acknowledged that he was governed by the
disciplinary powers of the club. The applicant was a foremost racehorse owner
and breeder. In 1989 one of his fillies won a major race and a sample of her urine
was said to contain camphor which was prohibited by the rules. At a subsequent
inquiry the club's disciplinary committee concluded that such substance was
present in her urine and, in consequence, disqualified the filly and fined her
trainer. The applicant sought leave for judicial review by way of an order of
certiorari to quash the committee's decision. A preliminary issue was raised as to
whether the decision was amenable to judicial review. The question was
determined against the applicant and such determination carried to the Court of
Appeal, where the order of the Divisional Court was affirmed. The following
passage reveals the relevant considerations: The petitioners have relied on the Court of Appeal's recognition of judicial
review of orders passed by the panel on takeovers and mergers which was a self-
regulating unincorporated association in England. The judgment reported at
(1987) 1 All ER 564 (R v. Panel on Take-overs and Mergers), which has been
quoted with approval in (1993) 1 SCC 645 (Unnikrishnan, JP v. State of A.P.), is
placed and the following passages read out: This is clear from the expressed willingness of the Secretary of State for
 Trade and Industry to limit legislation in the field of take-overs and
 mergers and to use the panel as the centrepiece of his regulation of that
 market. The rights of citizens are indirectly affected by its decisions, some,
 but by no means all of whom, may in a technical sense be said to have
 assented to this situation, eg the members of the Stock Exchange. At least
 in its determination of whether there has been a breach of the code, it has
 a duty to act judicially and it asserts that its raison d'être is to do equity
 between one shareholder and another. Its source of power is only partly
 based on moral persuasion and the assent of institutions and their
 members, the bottom line being the statutory powers exercised by the
 Department of Trade and Industry and the Bank of England. In this
 context I should be very disappointed if the courts could not recognise the
 realities of executive power and allowed their vision to be clouded by the
 subtlety and sometimes complexity of the way in which it can be exerted."
 (Page 577)

 The petitioners have relied on Sir William Wade on Administrative Law (9th
Ed.) for the author's endorsement of the more wholesome principle of judicial
review in Scotland. There is a reference, while discussing the boundaries of
judicial review and the realms beyond the law, that the English view epitomised
in the Aga Khan case that the source of the authority was "in no sense
governmental" but derived from contract, would constrain the scope of judicial
review. The following passage from page 646 captures the spirit which the
petitioners adventurously commend to be adopted: On a reading of the authorities it appears that a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution would be maintainable either by virtue of the status of the
person or authority complained against; or by virtue of the nature of its general
functions or the character of the specific act impugned. The word
"maintainability" is loosely used though it has several hues to it; it is used in
cases where the action may not be received at all without any application of mind
or may initially be received and dismissed at the preliminary stage. It is also
used, and probably erroneously, in the context of alternative remedy, but that is
a separate discussion altogether. In every case, however, where the issue of
maintainability of a writ petition is raised, the key is ultimately found in the
nature of the grievance and the legal right canvassed. A writ petition has per force to be allowed to be filed if one of the
respondents thereto is obviously a state or authority within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution. Yet, such petition may not progress at all if the
nature of the right sought to be asserted takes it beyond the pale of judicial
review. For a writ petition to be entertained there has to be an element of public
law involved. This could be by virtue of the status of the respondent complained
against or the nature of the conduct impugned. The test of whether a body
performs a public function may not always depend on the source of its general
operations or whether it is a public body or a private body. Judicial review can be
sought for activities of any body performing public functions or discharging or
seeking to discharge a public duty by the act complained of. Just as all decisions
of public bodies would not be subject to judicial review, the fact that it is the
conduct of a private body that is assailed in this jurisdiction will not ipso facto
disqualify the action. A body generally performing a public function may escape
 the scanner under judicial review if it can cite some other branch of law more
appropriately suited for resolution of the issue or if the act complained of falls
squarely within the private, non-statutory contract between the parties. At the heart of the petitioners' grievance in this case is the invocation of the
master circular. There is an element of public interest in the introduction of the
circular by the Reserve Bank. The master circular announces that it had been
necessitated pursuant to the instructions of the Central Vigilance Commission
for collection of information on willful defaults of Rs.25 lakh and above by the
Reserve Bank and dissemination thereof to reporting banks and financial
institutions. There is a huge public element about the circular in that the access
of a willful defaulter to public funds would be seriously impaired upon the person
being branded as such. It is a warning to all banks and financial institutions to
be wary of such person. The underlying spirit of the circular is to ensure the
constriction of the flow of public funds to a willful defaulter. If such is the
purpose of the circular, which is for the benefit of banks and financial
institutions dealing in public funds - irrespective of whether they deal with state
funds - the very act of invocation of the circular would involve a public element
notwithstanding the person invoking it not being amenable to the writ
jurisdiction by the nature of its constitution. The fundamental grievance in the
present case is the erroneous exercise of a duty which has been imposed in
public interest. The regulatory authority of the Reserve Bank over Kotak Mahindra Bank
would not make, as the several authorities show, the bank amenable to judicial
review. The deep and pervasive control of the State, which is generally a guiding
factor to assess whether a respondent would be amenable to this jurisdiction,
would not imply the mere regulatory or supervisory control of a statutory
authority over the body which is sought to be subjected to judicial review. A
partnership firm has to conform to the Partnership Act , a society has to act in
accordance with the applicable statute, a company has to comply with the
 provisions of the Companies Act and, similarly, any bank has to abide by the Banking Regulation Act and the supervision of the central bank under the Reserve Bank of India Act . If, however, the extent of regulatory control by a
statutory body over a private body is coupled with a public duty in its general
functioning or the private body is a specialised body dealing with the public, as a
stock exchange, the consideration would be different. The remedy under Article 226 is essentially a public law remedy and is
not ordinarily available against private wrongs. The jurisdiction may be invoked
when there is wrongful exercise of power or a refusal to perform duties in the
public law domain. Article 226 of the Constitution confers on every High Court,
subject to territorial considerations, the "power ... to issue to any person or
authority, including in appropriate cases, any Government ... directions, orders
or writs, including writs in the nature of habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition,
quo warranto and certiorari, or any of them, for the enforcement of any of the
rights conferred by Part III and for any other purpose." It is a constitutional
mandate for judicial control over administrative actions. In view of the words
used in Article 226 of the Constitution, the jurisdiction may also be invoked
against any private body or person. However, the scope of the authority is limited
to the enforcement of a public duty. A question as to the applicability of the
jurisdiction is determined by the nature of the duty to be enforced, rather than
the identity or general status of the person against whom a writ is sought. If a
private body discharges a public function and the denial of any right is in
connection with the public duty imposed on such private body, the public law
remedy under Article 226 may be enforced. The duty cast on the person
complained against may be either statutory or otherwise and the source of such
power is immaterial as long as there is a public law element in the impugned
action. The master circular contemplates a public function as it seeks to achieve
some collective benefit in the economic sphere. It has been introduced in public
 interest. Viewed from Kotak Mahindra Bank's perspective, the invocation of the
master circular does not give it any benefit. In fact, the circular is not intended to
confer any advantage on the body resorting to it to identify a willful defaulter;
unless it is in the negative sense of being used as a sword for the alleged
defaulter to fall in line and make payment before being publicly (albeit within the
extended banking circle) branded as a willful defaulter. If the bank's case is
accepted then it would be that the company has failed to discharge an irrefutable
debt to the bank. The invocation of the master circular or the declaration of the
company as a willful defaulter thereunder will not - again, except in the negative
sense of its coercive impact - bring in the payment that the Bank claims to be its
due. The effect of the master circular, therefore, is not for the private benefit of
the body invoking it, but for the larger public benefit of others in the banking or
financial sector. The master circular begins on the premise that there is an
undisputable debt due (never mind, in this context, the source of the debt) and
the consideration thereunder is only as to whether the default in payment thereof
is willful within the definition of the relevant expression in the circular. The
adjudication and, more importantly, the outcome of the adjudication under the
master circular are intended to achieve a larger benefit than the immediate,
private interest of the body which invokes it. The petition thus qualifies to progress for further consideration, not upon
Kotak Mahindra Bank being found to be a state or other authority generally
answering to that description in Article 12 of the Constitution, or on it being
assessed to be inherently engaged in discharging public functions, but on the
public character of the duty that is intrinsic in its invocation of the master
circular. The exercise of such public duty brings in the attendant safeguards
under Part III of the Constitution and its conduct in discharge of such duty has
to be tested against the elevated, more exacting standards than would otherwise
be applicable to this private bank. There are two other, but less fundamental, preliminary hurdles that the
petitioners have been presented by the respondents. Both respondent banks
state that there is a statutory arbitration provided for in the Credit Information
Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005 that would cover the grievances sought to be
raised by the petitioners. They say since that Act has been introduced to provide
for regulation of credit information companies and to facilitate efficient
distribution of credit and for matters connected therewith, the petitioner
company should seek its remedy under Section 18 thereof: The bank says that a statutory arbitration stands on a higher pedestal
than an arbitration clause contained in a contract. It argues that Section 18(1) of
the 2005 Act is couched in the widest terms and would take within its fold a
dispute of the nature that the petitioner company has brought to court. The bank
suggests that since the subject involves an element of expertise, the court should
treat the objection with a bit more circumspection than the everyday protest on
the ground of alternative remedy. The bank says that at the end of the day an
objection on the ground of an efficacious alternative remedy is an appeal to the
court to exercise its discretion to not receive the petition. The bank is cautious in
putting the point across; it says that its prayer to refer the matter to an expert
forum under the statutory clause is not to imply the court's inability to address
the issues involved but only to emphasise the inconvenience that may be
occasioned in ascertaining the banking practice and then assessing the matters
in issue. The Reserve Bank is more vehement on this aspect. It commends the
alternative remedy of statutory arbitration vociferously by underlining the virtues
of the self-imposed restraint in this jurisdiction to not take up a matter if an
effective option is available to the petitioner before a designated forum. The
Reserve Bank asserts that since credit information is defined in the 2005 Act to
mean, inter alia, the creditworthiness of any borrower of a credit institution
under Section 2(d)(iv) thereof and the private bank is undoubtedly a credit
institution within the meaning of the expression used in the said Act and the
company a borrower thereunder, a dispute between the bank and the company
regarding the creditworthiness of the company would fall within the wide
amplitude of Section 18 of the Act. It argues that clause 2.9 of the master
circular obliges a bank to "submit the list of suit-filed accounts of wilful
defaulters of Rs.25 lakh and above as at end-March, June, September and
December every year to Credit Information Bureau (India) Ltd" which has been
established under the 2005 Act. The Reserve Bank refers to clause 5.1 of the
 master circular that envisages dissemination of information relating to willful
defaulters both by the Reserve Bank and by the bureau set up by the 2005 Act
with particulars of the directors of the defaulting companies and related details.
The central bank is at pains to demonstrate that the adjudication of a willful
defaulter by a bank or a financial institution is an exercise effectively under the
2005 Act and the statutory remedy thereunder may be exhausted before this
extraordinary jurisdiction is invoked. The Reserve Bank relies on a judgment reported at (1976) 2 SCC 167 ( Bisra
Stone Lime Co. Ltd. v. Orissa State Electricity Board ) and places paragraph 24 of
the report: The Reserve Bank also cites in such context a judgment reported at (2007)
14 SCC 680 ( Empire Jute Company Limited v. Jute Corporation of India Ltd. )
where the Bisra Stone Lime case was noticed and the Supreme Court exhorted
that the existence of an arbitration should deter the writ court from proceeding
with the matter. But it would be evident from paragraph 18 of the report that the
impugned order of a Division Bench of this court had referred a part of the
 subject-matter of the writ petition to arbitration and retained the other part in
court: Ordinarily the court, in its wisdom, imposes a restraint on its exercise of
jurisdiction under Article 226 where the party invoking the jurisdiction has an
effective and adequate alternative remedy. Such restraint is founded on
convenience and discretion rather than any regimen of law. The existence of an
alternative remedy does not oust the jurisdiction of the court. In a matter where
the order complained against is alleged to be illegal or invalid as being contrary to
law, a petition at the instance of person adversely affected by it should usually
not be rejected on the ground of an alternative remedy since the other remedy
available may not be appropriate. There appears to be a fallacy in how an arbitration agreement is cited
before court to dissuade it to entertain a writ petition on merits. In principle,
citing an arbitration clause in a contract between the key players in any writ
proceedings should not be any more exalted than an argument that the petitioner
should be asked to assert his claim before a regular forum rather than be
entertained in this extraordinary jurisdiction. After all, for every civil dispute
brought to the writ court there is almost invariably an alternative remedy; if
nothing else, at least by way of a civil suit. Subject to the arbitrability of the
cause, an arbitration agreement merely takes the adjudication away from the
regular forum ordained by law to a consensual forum. In substance it should
 ordinarily make no difference to the writ court as to whether the disputes before
it are covered by an arbitration agreement to which the petitioner is a party. For,
if the court finds that the grievance canvassed relates to contract qua contract or
involves arduous disputes on facts, the court would, in any event, not allow the
matter to continue in this extraordinary jurisdiction. In such a case the
arbitration agreement covering the disputes would be pertinent for the order of
dismissal of the petition; the writ court would not relegate the petitioner to a suit
or the usual remedy recognised by law but direct it go to the forum agreed to
under the relevant agreement. The consideration would, however, be weighed more heavily against the
petitioner if a statutory arbitration or an arbitration before an expert body (not of
arbitrators but of specialists in the area of activity involved in the engagement
between the main parties) is cited to persuade the exercise of the self-imposed
restraint to not receive the petition. But such distinction - between a run of the
mill arbitration agreement and a statutory arbitration or an arbitration before an
expert body - is no different from the court exercising greater restraint (where
there is no arbitration agreement covering the subject-matter) in receiving a writ
petition when there is a designated forum under, say, a special statute or an
appellate forum available than when there is no appellate or other special forum
nominated. In this case a statutory arbitration is alluded to. The question is whether
such alternative remedy would be efficacious if it is at all available. Despite the
Reserve Bank's enthusiasm in the reference, there is a conundrum that it has
missed. The primary ground urged is that the expression, "credit information",
under the 2005 Act would embrace the act of the bank here adjudging the
petitioner company to be a willful defaulter. But that would imply that the
company is a borrower qua the bank. If it were so held then the major plank of
the company's substantive challenge is robbed and there may not be any need for
the reference at all. It is true that under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
 1996 , which would apply to a reference under Section 18 of the 2005 Act, the
arbitral tribunal should be left to adjudicate upon its jurisdiction. But it would
appear rather odd to ask the company to make a reference under Section 18 of
the 2005 Act only to assert before the arbitral tribunal that the company was not
a borrower qua the bank, when the existence of such fact is the foundation of the
arbitral tribunal's authority to receive the reference. It is the same jurisdictional
fact that the company has made the basis of its present challenge that would be
a prerequisite for the arbitral tribunal to assume jurisdiction under Section 18 of
the 2005 Act. The alternative remedy canvassed would not be efficacious since the
arbitral tribunal would not have the authority to receive the challenge to the vires
of the master circular that the petitioners have brought here. But merely because
the petitioners have questioned the legality of the master circular would not by
itself take the matter out of the arbitral tribunal's domain if such tribunal would
otherwise have had authority to receive the subject-matter of the petition.
Oftentimes dexterous drafting would bring about the illusion of a right when
none may exist; or, the delusion of the necessity of a party impleaded
unnecessarily; or, the chimera of a plausible challenge to any provision when
there is no likelihood of its success. Many judicial hours have been expended in
appraising how the discretion under Section 34 of the old Arbitration Act, 1940 was to be exercised when an odd party or an extraneous cause of action was
introduced in a plaint to dodge a reference to arbitration. The quality of the
challenge to the validity of the master circular has to be assessed; not to the
entire hilt but only to probe whether such challenge is a ruse to avoid the arbitral
tribunal. There are two facets to the petitioners' assault on the master circular: The bank relies on a judgment reported at (1965) 1 SCR 686 ( Devilal Modi
v. Sales Tax Officer, Ratlam ) where a Constitution Bench considered whether the
 principle of constructive res judicata could be applied to a writ petition. The
appellant before the Supreme Court assailed a final order of sales tax assessment
before the High Court. The writ petition failed and he was unsuccessful in the
appeal by special leave before the Supreme Court. The assessee attempted to
raise some additional grounds before the Supreme Court which recorded such
additional grounds but did not allow the assessee to urge them as they were not
specified in his writ petition. He then went back before the High Court and filed
another petition where he took the additional grounds that were not specifically
taken in the previous petition. The High Court dismissed the second petition on
merits and in the resultant appeal by special leave, the question of constructive
res judicata arose. The Supreme Court noticed an earlier Constitution Bench
judgment in Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd v. Janapada Sabha, Chhindwara (AIR
1961 SC 964) and held that the ratio therein was inapplicable to the case before
the subsequent Constitution Bench. At the time that the appeal in Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd. was argued
before the Supreme Court, some new points of law were sought to be raised but
the Supreme Court did not allow them to be made on the ground that they ought
to have been urged at an earlier stage. When a similar order was passed against
the said company for a subsequent year, the said additional points were included
by it in its petition before the High Court. The High Court held that it was not
open to the Company to raise such points on the ground of constructive res
judicata. The company took such order to the Supreme Court in appeal by
special leave. The Supreme Court held that the High Court was in error in
holding that the principle of constructive res judicata precluded the Company
from raising the additional points. Accordingly, the merits of the said points were
considered and the challenge to the impugned assessment order was upheld. In
dealing with the question of constructive res judicata, the earlier Constitution
Bench in Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd. observed that constructive res judicata
was an artificial form of res judicata enacted by Section 11 of the Code of Civil
Procedure and it should not be generally applied to writ petitions filed under Article 32 or Article 226. In the later decision of Devilal Modi it was observed that
the enunciation of the principle in Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd. had to be read in
proper perspective since the "Court also pointed out that the appeal before the
Court was in relation to an assessment levied for a different year, and that made
the doctrine of res judicata itself inapplicable." The Supreme Court held in Devilal Modi that it would not be right to ignore
the principles of res judicata altogether in dealing with writ petitions filed by
citizens alleging the contravention of their fundamental rights and that
considerations of public policy could not be ignored in such cases. The substance
of the legal principle is captured in the following words of paragraph 11 and in
paragraph 12 of the report: The bank relies on another judgment reported at (2005) 1 SCC 444 ( U.P.
State Road Transport Corporation v. State of U.P .) for the proposition that the
applicability of the doctrine of constructive res judicata had been extended to
statutory violations challenged by way of proceedings under Article 226 of the
Constitution. The complex facts in that case need to be seen for the law laid
down therein to be best appreciated. By an order made in Shri Chand v. Govt. of U.P. [(1985) 4 SCC 169] the
Supreme Court quashed a scheme that the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport
Corporation had published in 1959 under Section 68-C of the Motor Vehicles Act,
1939. It was, however, left open to the state transport undertaking to publish a
fresh draft scheme, if necessary. The state transport corporation published a
fresh scheme in 1986 under the same provision. Objections were filed to the
scheme but before they could be decided, the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 came into
force in 1989 repealing the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 . The competent authority
thereafter held that the proposed scheme had lapsed by virtue of Section 100(4)
of the 1988 Act. The state transport corporation preferred a writ petition but the
Allahabad High Court also took the view that the scheme had lapsed and
accordingly upheld the order of the competent authority and dismissed the writ
petition. The appeal against the decision of the High Court was allowed by the
Supreme Court in 1992 [ Ram Krishna Verma v. State of U.P. (1992) 2 SCC 620]
though the grant of permits under Section 80 of the 1988 Act to some of the
private operators was quashed. The competent authority was directed to approve
the draft scheme within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the
judgment and publish the same. While the competent authority was hearing the
objections, the State Government published a notification in 1993 whereby the
draft scheme published in 1986 under Section 68-C of the old Act was approved. The notification specifically mentioned that the decision was taken in view of the
directions given by the Supreme Court in the Ram Krishna Verma case. Several
operators filed writ petitions in the High Court against the 1993 notification but
they were dismissed in 1999 on the ground that the scheme stood approved by
 the decisions of the Supreme Court in the case of Ram Krishna Verma and also in Nisar Ahmad v. State of U.P. [(1994) Supp. (3) SCC 460]. The appeals preferred
against the judgment of the High Court were allowed by the judgment reported at
(2001) 5 SCC 762 ( Gajraj Singh v. State of U.P. ). It was held in Gajraj Singh that
the Ram Krishna Verma case was confined only to the Saharanpur-Shahdara-
Delhi route; that the notification published in 1986 included 38 other routes
which had not been approved by the Supreme Court; and, that objections
relating to the other routes were required to be considered on merits. The
competent authority decided the objections. The state transport corporation and
some private operators questioned such decision in writ petitions before the High
Court. The High Court held that the draft scheme of 1986 had lapsed under
Section 100(4) of the 1988 Act and it could not be approved or modified and,
accordingly, the draft scheme of 1986 and the approved scheme of 1993 as
modified by the order impugned in the immediate proceedings were quashed. The Supreme Court held in the judgment now cited by the bank that such
issue could not have been raised or revisited by the High Court since it stood
concluded by the Supreme Court decision in Ram Krishna Verma. It held that in
the judgments of both Ram Krishna Verma and Nisar Ahmad the Supreme Court
had opined that the 1986 scheme had not lapsed notwithstanding Section 100(4)
of the 1988 Act. It observed that, in any event, the order in Gajraj Singh directed
the 1993 notification, which approved the 1986 scheme, to be modified upon
taking into account the objections thereto that remained pending. The Supreme
Court referred to previous judicial pronouncements on the legal issue and held at
paragraph 11,

 "11. The principle of res judicata is based on the need of giving a finality
 to judicial decisions. The principle which prevents the same case being
 twice litigated is of general application and is not limited by the specific
 words of Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure in this respect. Res
 judicata applies also as between two stages in the same litigation to this
 extent that a court, whether the trial court or a higher court having at an
 earlier stage decided a matter in one way will not allow the parties to
 reagitate the matter again at a subsequent stage of the same proceedings." What must first be seen in the present case is as to what was decided by
the order of March 27, 2009 on the previous petition carried by these petitioners.
It is true that the legality of the master circular was not questioned in the
previous proceedings but the Court made it clear that "no opinion is expressed
on merits of the ... claim and all points are left open for being agitated ... before
the Committee." Assume that the earlier petition was heard on merits and
dismissed. If such judgment were not appealed against, it would still not have
prohibited a challenge to the final order of the grievance redressal committee to
be made notwithstanding the petitioners being estopped from advocating the
grounds already urged and rejected. It is extremely doubtful, as a legal
proposition, that a subsequent writ petition against a final order cannot
incorporate a challenge to the legality of the statute or notification under which
the impugned proceedings were conducted by virtue of an earlier challenge
against the show-cause notice having been rejected on merits when the legality of
the relevant statute or notification had not been questioned at the earlier stage.
The principle of estoppel or res judicata would not apply where to give effect to
such principle a statutory direction or prohibition would have to be overridden.
There is no good reason for not extending such immunity from the principle to a
case where the inherent lack of jurisdiction is cited in a subsequent petition,
which is otherwise maintainable, but such ground had not been urged in the
previous proceedings which were dismissed on merits. In any event, for the
principle to apply there would first have to be a previous concluded decision on
merits; and in the present case the order of March 27, 2009 left all questions
open. It would be extremely harsh and legally irrational to hold that only the
points urged in the previous decision - though not conclusively decided - could
be taken in this subsequent action, but the grounds missed out or otherwise not
taken could not be entertained. If it is the accepted position that inherent lack of
jurisdiction would render the act a nullity and such ground could be set up
 anywhere even collaterally, it would defy logic to not permit a challenge to the
validity of the master circular - in furtherance of a ground of inherent lack of
jurisdiction - to be now maintained on account of the previous decision which
left all questions open. So much for the prelude to the real dispute. Some matters already noticed
will again fall for consideration but the basis for assessment thereof will have to
be in the context that they next come up. The petitioners have fashioned their attack on the bank's invocation of the
master circular and its grievance redressal committee's decision of April 7, 2009
on six major counts. The validity of the master circular is questioned primarily on
the principle embodied in the maxim, nemo debet esse judex in propria sua causa
(nobody shall be judge of his own cause). The petitioners are aggrieved at the
Reserve Bank failing to rein in the private bank. They suggest that the bank has
sought to pre-judge a matter that it has referred to arbitration and has sought to
irretrievably condemn the petitioner even during the pendency of the reference.
They say that the bank has failed to comply with the due process contemplated
by the master circular. They allege that the general bias of the bank and its
grievance redressal committee is accentuated by the presence on the committee
of a gentleman who has been conducting all litigation against the petitioner
company on behalf of the bank. The petitioners assert that since the bank did
not lend the company any money nor did the company borrow from the bank,
there is no lender-borrower relationship between the two that is the sine qua non
for the invocation of the master circular. The petitioners say that the master circular involves a two-stage procedure: It is submitted that there is no gainsaying that only if a bank or financial
institution had internally decided that a borrower would be branded as a willful
defaulter would the notice be issued to the borrower for such purpose and the
remedy of a representation to the domestic grievance redressal committee would
be a facetious exercise in futility. The petitioners exhort that such manifestly
unjust procedure would fall foul of Article 14 of the Constitution and rely on the
judgment reported at (1978) 1 SCC 248 ( Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India ) to
emphasise the content and reach of the equalising principle enunciated in Article
14 which was held to be the founding faith of the Constitution. In the leading
opinion rendered on behalf of three of the seven judges on the Bench, the
pronouncement of the law by a Constitution Bench of Five Judges in E.P.
Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu [(1974) 4 SCC 3] was quoted with approval in its
assertion that, "equality is antithetic to arbitrariness" and "equality and
arbitrariness are sworn enemies; one belongs to the rule of law in a republic,
while the other, to the whim and caprice of an absolute monarch." The petitioners submit that clause 3 is the mainstay of the master circular
and if that is struck down, it would be as if the heart is robbed of a person. The
petitioners say this in response to a stand taken on affidavit by the bank that
even if clause 3 were to go, the master circular would otherwise be valid and
leave enough residuary ammunition for the petitioner company to be dealt with
thereunder. The petitioners rely, in this context, on the Bank Nationalisation case reported at (1970) 1 SCC 248 ( Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of India )
and paragraph 121 of the report: The petitioners also cite a passage from A Treatise on the Constitutional
Limitations by Thomas M Cooley, a part of which is quoted in the Gold Control
case [(1969) 2 SCC 166 ( Harakchand Ratanchand Banthia v. Union of India )]: Though the bank seeks to brush aside the challenge to the legality of the
master circular in a lighter vein that it is customary for any delinquent in a spot
to question the constitutional validity of an uncomfortable provision under which
he is booked, it is the Reserve Bank which has jumped more passionately into
the fray in its understandable fervour to uphold its circular. The bank mentions
that apart from the fact that the legitimacy of the master circular had not been
assailed in the previous petition, such ground was not indicated to the bank or
its grievance redressal committee in the numerous missives delivered to the bank
by or on behalf of the petitioner company. The bank's stand is unclear as to why
such irrelevant matters are referred to as its second line of defence to stave off a
challenge to the legality of the circular, but it appears the bank seeks to raise a
cloud of estoppel. Before proceeding to the more meritorious grounds of
resistance offered by the Reserve Bank, such frivolous opposition must be
summarily scotched. There would have been no sequitur to such assertion even if
the petitioner company had prefaced every letter issued to the bank with a
challenge to the validity of the master circular or clambered up to every rooftop of
vantage to shout it out therefrom. The bank could not have arrogated unto itself
the authority to entertain the issue by reason of its regulatory subservience to
the author of the master circular and on the recognition that neither it nor any
committee of its officers has yet been conferred the power of judicial review. On the substance of the challenge to the validity of the master circular, the
bank says that such circular provides for a blacklisting of sorts. The bank
contends that blacklisting is neither impermissible nor arbitrary and judicial
pronouncements only require adequate safeguards to be introduced in the
procedure so that the person sought to be blacklisted is not condemned unheard.
The bank refers to the judgments reported at (1975) 1 SCC 70 ( Erusian
Equipment and Chemicals Ltd. v. State of West Bengal ) and (1989) 1 SCC 229
( Raghunath Thakur v. State of Bihar ) that provide that since an order of
blacklisting has civil consequences for the future business of the person affected,
he has to be afforded a right to make a representation and be heard before the
 order can be made. The bank says that usually blacklisting is also done by the
same department or organisation with whom the person sought to be blacklisted
engages in business. It is the bank's case that if a government department can
have the right to blacklist a contractor, subject to hearing him, a bank may also
effectively blacklist one of its borrowers by holding him to be a willful defaulter
under the master circular. The bank submits that the bank has an inherent right
to brand one of its customers as a defaulter and that the consequence of such
branding has been widened under the Reserve Bank's master circular should, in
principle, not make any difference. The Reserve Bank is more studied in its approach to the attack on its
circular. It says that the law relating to bias has moved on in India and the
traditional concept of likelihood of bias is no longer the accepted position,
particularly in economic matters. It contends that courts in India are now loath
to entertain a generic challenge founded on likelihood of institutional bias though
individual, personal bias still remains a germane consideration if supported by
adequate particulars. The Reserve Bank brings a judgment reported at (2004) 11
SCC 625 ( Delhi Financial Corpn. v. Rajiv Anand ) and emphasises the subtle shift
apparent from this passage at paragraph 14 of the report: The Reserve Bank states that the validity of the master circular has been
upheld by the Delhi High Court and commends the reasoning in an unreported
judgment of that Court in W.P.(C) 7036 of 2007 ( Sudarshan Overseas Ltd. v.
Reserve Bank of India ) delivered on May 28, 2009. Paragraphs 11 and 12 of the
judgment record the main reasons: On such aspect of the matter the Reserve Bank rests its case with that
trendy incantation that prompts a more deferential moderation by courts: that
the making of the master circular is a matter of policy in a crucial area of the
economic activity. The central bank claims that such policy decision is based on
the bitter recovery experience of banks and financial institutions and has the
technical backing of expert studies and reports. It refers to a judgment reported
at (2003) 4 SCC 289 ( Federation of Rly Officers' Assn v. Union of India ) for the
proposition that the scope of judicial review is extremely restricted in matters of
policy evolved by the government. The limited challenge to the validity of the master circular does not appeal.
The only ground put forth by the petitioners is the apparent arbitrariness in
permitting banks and financial institutions to be party, judge and jury all rolled
into one and that such procedure is overwhelmingly loaded against the borrower
who is, more often than not, disadvantaged in his bargaining capacity from the
inception of the relationship. One need not go much beyond the Securitisation
 and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act,
2002 and its vires being upheld for an answer to the petitioner's challenge to the
master circular. The said Act goes against the general grain of jurisprudence
adopted in the country. It envisages possession of a secured interest to be taken
first and the propriety thereof to be adjudicated upon later. The raison d'être of
the 2002 Act and the rationale for its ineffective forerunner in banking law in the
country, the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act,
1993 , were the proliferation of blocked assets of banks and financial institutions
in claims against borrowers being embroiled in unproductive legal actions that
continued interminably. If against such backdrop a regime is put in place that
makes the process of realisation of bank dues swifter and permits banks and
financial institutions to exchange notes on delinquents, there is enough
justification in the policy even if the policy is probed. Whether it is in the acceptance of the process of adjudication under the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971 or the
recognition of departmental arbitration, to cite but a few instances, there is a
growing reluctance to receive challenges founded on the generic apprehension of
institutional bias, though it is not altogether ruled out or never entertained. If a
secured creditor under the 2002 Act need only consider, but rule as it may
choose, following an objection received from a borrower to the creditor's notice
under Section 13(2) of such Act; and if such procedure sanctioned by law has the
imprimatur of the highest judicial authority of the land, there is little room to
challenge a bank's right under the master circular to assess that the default on
the part of its borrower-constituent is deliberate. There may also be a further safeguard in the ordinary case, in addition to
the dual-stage format that the master circular envisions in its third clause. It
appears that the any assessment of the creditworthiness (and, as a corollary, the
lack of it) of a borrower (which includes a client in the relevant statute) by a
credit institution (which includes banks and financial institutions in such
 enactment) is subject to statutory arbitration under the aegis of the Reserve
Bank by virtue of Section 18 of the Credit Information Companies (Regulation)
Act, 2005. Though the petitioners indicated in the introductory submission that there
was another dimension to their challenge to the validity of the master circular if
such circular were used to rope in any person having other permitted business
dealings with a bank but not being a person who had availed of credit facilities
from the bank, the petitioners appear to have reserved the ammunition for use in
their foremost contention that in the petitioner company not being a borrower of
the bank, the master circular could not have been invoked against it. The second count of challenge on merits - the first of three successive
seemingly minor charges - is of the Reserve Bank not harnessing the private
bank as it shot like a loose cannon down a mountain slope to denigrate the
petitioner company and sully the company's self-proclaimed pristine credit
record. There would be value in the point if the Reserve Bank was of the opinion
that the master circular could not be applied to anyone placed as the petitioner
company was or even harboured doubts as to its applicability. The Reserve Bank
insists that the company answered to the description of a borrower under the
master circular and was liable to have such circular used against it. The Reserve
Bank's foundation for justifying the bank's invocation of the circular will call for a
closer scrutiny in another context, but for the immediate discussion it would
suffice that not only does the regulating bank insist that the application of
master circular to the company was in order but the central bank seems to
extend its tacit endorsement to the decision of the private bank's grievance
redressal committee. If the Reserve Bank bonafide carried an impression - whether or not it was
erroneous - that the master circular would encompass the transaction between
the company and the bank and if the apex bank exercised discreet
superintendence by forwarding the company's letter to the bank to inform it that
 it had been reported against, there can be no legitimate accusation of the Reserve
Bank having acted injudiciously. The Reserve Bank played its role as a
dispassionate elder statesman not engaging in the spat but keeping an eye on it
from a distance. The third charge is of the bank prejudging the issue notwithstanding its
pending reference in support of its claim and the company's suit yet to be played
out before the City Civil Court. The petitioners say that if they have to put up the
money that the bank demands to escape the evil consequence of the publication
of the bank adjudging the company as a willful defaulter, nothing remains in the
arbitral reference or the bank's obligation to obtain the money by implementing
the award that it is so sure to get; not to speak of the company's suit that is
stultified by a cavalier stroke of the grievance redressal committee's pen. The
petitioners refer to the scope of the arbitral reference by placing the main issues
framed therein: The bank retorts that there is no virtue in denying a legitimate claim for
denial's sake and taking advantage of the usual delay of the legal process. It says
that if the law and practice permitted it to pursue its claim in an agreed forum
and independently take action for the petitioner company's recalcitrance, the
bank cannot be faulted for so doing. It claims that since there is no justification
for the petitioner company to withhold what is rightfully and contractually due to
the bank, the bank was well within its rights adopt the procedure designed by
the Reserve Bank to document and disseminate information as to the petitioner
company's intransigence. Again, there a ready analogy from contemporary banking laws to ascertain
this charge levelled by the petitioners. A bank or a financial institution as a
secured creditor may proceed against its securities under the Securitisation Act of 2002 irrespective of its principal claim pending adjudication before a Debts
Recovery Tribunal. That is a harsher course of action from the constituent's
perspective than the bank's act complained of here. If the master circular is valid
and it its applicability is unfettered by the pendency of the underlying claim, its
due operation cannot be circumscribed by impassioned arguments of prejudice
not rooted to any discernible legal right. The fourth head of challenge is in the bank's alleged failure to comply with
procedural due process. The petitioners say that since the master circular is
otherwise unsympathetic to the borrower, assuming for the moment that the
petitioner company was a borrower, the little mercies afforded therein to the
borrower must necessarily be adhered to or the ultimate outcome be condemned
for not conforming to due process. The petitioners complain of the tactlessness of
the bank in charging the petitioner company with misconduct by its show-cause
notice of October 22, 2008 without disclosing the basis of the decision of the
"Committee of higher functionaries" that clause 3(i) of the master circular
 mandates. The petitioners question the procedure adopted by the bank in not
even informing the petitioner company as to the composition of the initial
committee. The petitioners criticise the bank's omission to furnish to the
company the documentation and requisite evidence that weighed with the
committee at the first of the two stages that clause 3(ii) of the master circular
commands. They assert that this was indispensable if the process had to
progress to the second stage and was a precondition to the assumption of
jurisdiction by the grievance redressal committee. They point out that even the
second limb of clause 3(ii) of the master circular was observed in the breach
upon the petitioner company not being favoured with any clearly spelt-out
decision of the initial committee. The company, they lament, was not given any
insight of what weighed with the initial committee to enable the company to
address the misgivings and allay the misapprehension. The charge amounts to an allegation of violation of the principles of natural
justice. Not every attribute of the rules of natural justice needs to be inflexibly
complied with in every instance, nor will the writ court make such a rigorous
demand. What is imperative is that there has to be substantial compliance with
the rules of fairplay that any form of justice would demand. If it appears that the
authority discharging a quasi-judicial function enters upon the matter with an
element of predisposition, then the course of action that it charts out and the
reasons that it ultimately gives call for a more stern examination. The writ court
may be more searching in its exercise of assessing the decision-making process
to discover whether the transgression in the procedure can be linked to the
quasi-judicial authority's endeavour to rush through the formalities to arrive at
the inevitable conclusion. But there appears to be substantial compliance with the procedure set
down by the master circular. The bank's notice of October 22, 2008 sufficiently
directs the petitioner company to what it needed to address and adequately
informed the company of the basis for the company's opinion. That the letter did
 not expend a few more lines on the deliberations of the initial committee or its
composition may be for the same reason that it did not describe the weather
outside when it was drafted and such nitpicking in the conduct of a non-judicial
forum is unwarranted. That brings the matter down to the two core issues: whether the process
was actuated by malice and otherwise biased; and, whether there was an
erroneous assumption of jurisdiction under the master circular by either
committee of the bank. The petitioners allege bias in the presence of a certain Mr. Sathe on the
grievance redressal committee set up by the bank. It is said that the gentleman
had represented the bank at almost every meeting in the arbitral reference, that
he has been the bank's pointsman in its matters against the petitioner company
and it is announced, with the flourish associated in driving home a point of pure
prejudice, that he has been in attendance (probably post-retirement) on each day
that this hearing has covered. The petitioners first place a judgment reported at AIR 1959 SC 308
( Gullapalli Nageswara Rao v. Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation )
and rely on paragraph 30 thereof. It was held that the primary attribute of a
person entitled to adjudicate had to be his personal indifference to the matter.
The Supreme Court disapproved of the procedure where a secretary to the
Government of Madras in the transport department who was the final
departmental authority to approve a scheme subsequently heard and ruled on
the objections to the scheme that he had framed in the first place. Another judgment reported at (1969) 2 SCC 262 ( A.K. Kraipak v. Union of
India ) is cited where an individual who had personal interest sat on a committee.
His interest was immediate and as part of the committee he had to assess his
own case for selection. Though he opted out of the deliberations when his
 candidature was deliberated upon, it was felt that his presence on the committee
vitiated the process. Paragraph 15 of report brings out the facts and the principle
that was enunciated: "15. It is unfortunate that Naqishbund was appointed as one of the
 members of the selection board. It is true that ordinarily the Chief
 Conservator of Forests in a State should be considered as the most
 appropriate person to be in the selection board. He must be expected to
 know his officers thoroughly, their weaknesses as well as their strength.
 His opinion as regards their suitability for selection to the All India Service
 is entitled to great weight. But then under the circumstances it was
 improper to have included Naqishbund as a member of the selection board.
 He was one of the persons to be considered for selection. It is against all
 canons of justice to make a man judge in his own cause. It is true that he
 did not participate in the deliberations of the committee when his name
 was considered. But then the very fact that he was a member of the
 selection board must have had its own impact on the decision of the
 selection board. Further admittedly he participated in the deliberations of
 the selection board when the claims of his rivals particularly that of Basu
 was considered. He was also party to the preparation of the list of selected
 candidates in order of preference. At every stage of his participation in the
 deliberations of the selection board there was a conflict between his
 interest and duty. Under those circumstances it is difficult to believe that
 he could have been impartial. The real question is not whether he was
 biased. It is difficult to prove the state of mind of a person. Therefore what
 we have to see is whether there is reasonable ground for believing that he
 was likely to have been biased. We agree with the learned Attorney-General
 that a mere suspicion of bias is not sufficient. There must be a reasonable
 likelihood of bias. In deciding the question of bias we have to take into
 consideration human probabilities and ordinary course of human conduct.
 It was in the interest of Naqishbund to keep out his rivals in order to
 secure his position from further challenge. Naturally he was also interested
 in safeguarding his position while preparing the list of selected candidates." For the same effect, the petitioners have next brought a judgment reported
at (1984) 4 SCC 103 ( J. Mohapatra and Co. v. State of Orissa ). The petitioners
also refer to the Parliament cash-for-questions decision reported at (2007) 3 SCC
184 (Raja Ram Pal v. Hon'ble Speaker, Lok Sabha) for the proposition that the
principles of natural justice are built in to Articles 14 , 19 and 21 of the
Constitution. Paragraphs 671 and 672 have been placed from the report: The bank says that the petitioner company did not assert in its voluminous
correspondence either that Mr. Sathe was personally inimical to the company or
that his being on the committee was a matter of concern to the company. The
bank argues that the petitioner company took a chance with eyes wide open and
should not be permitted to question the gentleman's presence on the committee.
The bank contends that despite the company's reservation on certain other
scores, it wholeheartedly submitted to the grievance redressal committee's
jurisdiction and is deemed to have waived any objection as to the composition
thereof. The bank refers to a judgment reported at AIR 1957 SC 425 ( Manak Lal
v. Dr. Prem Chand Singhvi ) and another reported at (1997) 1 SCC 111 ( U.D. Lama
v. State of Sikkim ). In Manak Lal the appellant did not object to the presence of a
particular member on the tribunal and the Supreme Court concluded that in so
acting, the appellant was precluded from raising such objection at a later stage
before the court. That the timing of the objection in such regard is of crucial
importance has also been recognised in the following passage at paragraph 15 of
the report in U.D. Lama: The Reserve Bank does not find Mr. Sathe's presence on the committee to
be objectionable. It submits that since the petitioner company was aware of the
composition of the grievance redressal committee and had voluntarily appeared
before it without the slightest reservation on such count, the company had
gambled for obtaining a favourable result. In support of such argument it relies
on a judgment reported at (1976) 3 SCC 585 ( Dr. G. Sarana v. University of
Lucknow ) and places paragraph 15 of the report: Though the bank's general refrain in response to almost every head of
challenge brought by the petitioners has been estoppel or waiver, this is the one
instance where the argument serves it well. There is no murmur in any of the
company's several representations of the gentleman's presence being of any
consequence to the company. The petitioners have not demonstrated that he bore
any personal animosity against the company. His mere association on behalf of
the bank in proceedings against the petitioner company would not warrant such
challenge to be received on merits. In any event, in the company not having
taken such protest before the committee or even in the detailed submission made
 immediately upon the conclusion of the hearing before the committee, it had
voluntarily relinquished a right that it ought to have been aware of and cannot
now be permitted to resurrect it. Further, if the petitioner company had aired its misgiving on such account
at or prior to the hearing, or even immediately thereafter, it would have afforded
the bank or its committee to take care of the perceived shortcoming. It would
have been entirely different if the petitioner company had cited good grounds for
Mr. Sathe's exclusion from the committee and the committee had still persisted
with him thereon. But the petitioner company did not afford the grievance
redressal committee an opportunity to right the wrong, if a wrong at all it was. The final count of the petitioners' challenge is as to the bank's authority to
invoke the master circular in respect of the company's transactions with the
bank. The range accrual transaction involved a daily payout of Euro 10,000 by
the petitioner company to the bank if at any time between March 15, 2007 and
March 13, 2008 the exchange rate between Euro and US dollar fixed above 1.41.
The company's liability to pay would stop altogether if the exchange rate any time
thereafter struck 1.3130. The company has narrated in its counter-statement in
the arbitral reference that under the range accrual transaction there was no
option either to buy or sell any foreign exchange nor was any rate fixed therefor.
It has averred that the payout had no nexus with the losses that arose due to
foreign exchange value fluctuations. It is the company's case in the reference that
the transaction was neither a forward contract nor an option contract and it
certainly was not a derivative transaction within the meaning of the Reserve
Bank of India Act . It has, however, been the bank's consistent stand that the
International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) Master Agreement
entered into with the company contemplated foreign exchange derivative
transactions. The bank's show-cause notice of October 22, 2008 listed the range
accrual transaction as an option transaction. The bank's claim against the
 company is based on both the ISDA agreement and the range accrual
transaction. In course of the hearing, the bank has simplified matters by
asserting that the transaction between it and the company was in derivatives. The petitioners refer copiously to the master circular to suggest that it was
intended to cover only the typical lender-borrower transactions that banks and
financial institutions primarily engage in. The petitioners place the key sentence
in the introductory paragraph of the circular that implies that willful defaults
covered "all non-performing borrowal accounts with outstandings (funded
facilities and such non-funded facilities which are converted into funded
facilities) aggregating Rs.25 lakh and above ..." The petitioners stress on clause
2.1 of the circular that defines willful default. They take pains to demonstrate
that each of the four situations covered in the definition clause refers to
"payment/ repayment obligations to the lender." They submit that the expression
"lender" is not to be equated with creditor and, in the context of the circular,
banks and financial institutions covered thereby would be lenders if the relevant
agreements involved an actual flow of funds from the banks and financial
institutions to a customer against a promise of future repayment thereof with
appropriate interest. The petitioners suggest that the respondents' enthusiasm in
the use of "payment/ repayment" in each of the situations covered by the
definition of willful default is misplaced since repayment would point to the
return of the fund made available by a bank or financial institution to its
customer and payment would point to the interest to be earned on the credit
facilities granted. The petitioners refer to the penal measures detailed under clause 2.5 of the
master circular. The four measures suggested, according to the petitioners,
contemplate a lender-borrower relationship in each case. The first penal action
recommended is that no additional facilities should be granted by any bank or
financial institution to the listed willful defaulter; the second suggests legal
process against "borrower/guarantors and foreclosure of recovery of dues"; the
 third action proposes a proactive approach for a change of management in the
defaulter company; and, the fourth refers to loan agreements and advises banks
and financial institutions to introduce a clause in the loan agreements that the
borrowing company should not induct any person on its board who is the
promoter or a director of a company which has been identified as a willful
defaulter. The petitioners insist that for the master circular to apply there must be an
agreement at the inception of the relationship with a bank or a financial
institution that would provide for a flow of ascertained funds from the bank or
financial institution to its customer. The bank submits that the rationale for invoking the master circular is
found in the grievance redressal committee's decision of April 7, 2009. It says
that if an expert group of experienced bankers understood the words "borrower"
and "lender" used in the master circular to imply "debtor" and "creditor" in
banking parlance, it would meet the test in judicial review. After all, the
committee comprising experts had considered the objection, applied their
collective mind thereto and expressed their considered opinion thereon. The bank
submits that the committee's handling of the issue was appropriate and, since
judicial review is not akin to appellate authority, the perceived error of qualified
professionals engaged in a specialised field should not call for any correction in
this jurisdiction. The bank has handed over a bunch of documents in course of the hearing
which had been forwarded to the petitioners under cover of a letter dated July
21, 2009. It refers to a sanction letter of January 10, 2006 which describes the
petitioner company as "the borrower." The bank places particular reliance on the
tenor or the letter and the terms set out in the table forming part of the sanction
letter. The bank says that the use of the words "limits" and "facility" and the
stipulation therein for cash collaterals and like securities to be furnished by the
petitioner company would only admit of a lender-borrower engagement between
 the bank and the petitioner company. The material parts of the sanction letter
and the table set out therein provide as follows: The bank attempts to demonstrate that the sanction letter of January 10,
2006 was not a one-time, off-beat transaction and refers to the several other
 similar letters from the bunch of documents disclosed by the letter of July 21,
2009. Another sanction letter of January 31, 2007 and the telltale indications
therein of a lender-borrower transaction is placed to make the point: All other terms and conditions of sanction of the facilities sanctioned to you
 vide our earlier letter no. CB/100106/1298 dated January 10, 2006 shall
 remain valid, effective, binding and subsisting." The private bank and the central bank have relied on several circulars
issued by the Reserve Bank in their endeavour to establish that in banking
parlance a lender-borrower relationship would include the transactions and
engagement between the bank and the petitioner company. They suggest that the
 lender-borrower notion in banking business has to be understood in the context
of various circulars issued by the Reserve Bank and, in particular, in the light of
the concept of non-performing assets which was introduced nearly 10 years back
and has now been refined and redefined. The Reserve Bank relies on its circular of August 30, 2001 noticed by the
Supreme Court in Mardia Chemicals Ltd. v. Union of India [(2004) 4 SCC 311]
where a non-performing asset (NPA) was defined as a credit facility in respect of
which the interest and/or instalment of principal has remained 'past due' for a
specified period of time. Over the years the period specified has been reduced in a
phased manner. The Reserve Bank says that even its circular of 2001 included,
within the definition of NPA, any amount receivable by a bank or financial
institution which remained overdue for a period of more than 180 days. The
respondent banks suggest that if any "receivable" to a bank could be brought
within the definition of NPA, such receivable could also be made the basis for
invoking the master circular. The respondent banks have brought several other
circulars of the Reserve Bank. A master circular on income recognition, asset
classification, provisioning and other related matters issued on July 1, 2008 is
placed for the contemporary classification of assets as NPA. The Reserve Bank
relies on clause 2.1.2 of such other master circular of July 1, 2008: (iii) The bill remains overdue for a period of more than 90 days in the
 case of bills purchased and discounted. (iv) In the case of direct agricultural advances as listed in Annex 1,
 the overdue norm specified at para 2.1.5 would be applicable. In
 respect of agricultural loans, other than those specified in Annex
 1, identification of NPAs would be done on the same basis as non-
 agricultural advances. (v) Any amount to be received remains overdue for a period of more
 than 90 days in respect of other accounts. * Any amount due to the bank under any credit facility, if not
 paid by the due date fixed by the bank becomes overdue. @ "An account should be treated as 'out of order' if the
 outstanding balance remains continuously in excess of the
 sanctioned limit/drawing power. In cases where the outstanding
 balance in the principal operating account is less than the
 sanctioned limit/drawing power, but there are no credits
 continuously for 90 days or credits are not enough to cover the
 interest debited during the same period, these accounts should be
 treated as 'out of order'". The Reserve Bank places particular reliance on the fifth limb of the
relevant clause. It argues that any amount due to a bank that remains overdue
for a period of more than 90 days would become an NPA. The banks say that
modern banking business is far removed from the traditional scenario of loans
and advances being a bank's foremost area of business. The private bank claims
that the terms of the arrangement between the bank and the petitioner company
were fluid in concept; they envisaged payment from one party to the other
depending on the exchange fluctuations, but also contemplated a system of
deferred payment to be availed of by the company subject to the limits specified
in individual cases. The bank explains that if the company had made timely
payments then a lender-borrower relationship would not have arisen, but in the
company availing of the deferred payment facility it became a borrower to the
extent of its liability. The bank submits that modern banking is not as rigid as
courts would remember it to be: a transaction not carrying a lender-borrower
flavour at the inception could later become a borrowal account by the conduct of
the customer. This, the bank says, is what happened in the petitioner company's
 case and is the bank's fundamental basis for viewing the relationship from the
lender-borrower standpoint and invoking the master circular. The bank relies on a Reserve Bank letter of October 13, 2008 circulated to
all commercial banks laying down prudential norms for off-balance sheet
exposures of banks: ii) If the client concerned is also a borrower of the bank enjoying a Cash
 Credit or Overdraft facility from the bank, the receivables mentioned at
 item (i) above may be debited to that account on due date and the
 impact of its non-payment would be reflected in the cash
 credit/overdraft facility account. The principle of borrower-wise asset
 classification would be applicable here also, as per extant norms. iii) In cases where the contract provides for settlement of the current
 mark-to-market value of a derivative contract before its maturity, only
 the current credit exposure (not the potential future exposure) will be
 classified as a non-performing asset after an overdue period of 90 days. iv) As the overdue receivables mentioned above would represent
 unrealised income already booked by the bank on accrual basis, after
 90 days of overdue period, the amount already taken to 'Profit and Loss
 a/c' should be reversed and held in a 'Suspense a/c' in the same
 manner as is done in the case of overdue advances." The bank states that if there ever was any doubt that derivative contracts
could not throw up a lender-borrower relationship, it was set at rest by such
guidelines of October 13, 2008 which specified that overdue receivables
representing positive mark-to-market value of a derivative contract ought to be
treated as an NPA if they remained unpaid for 90 days or more. The bank refers
to the Reserve Bank clarification on the October 13, 2008 notification by a letter
of October 29, 2008 which provides,

 "Prudential Norms for Off-balance Sheet Exposures of Banks

 Please refer to our circular DBOD.No.BP.BC.57/21.04.157/2008-09
 October 13, 2008 on the captioned subject. 2. In terms of para 2.1(i) of the aforesaid Circular, any receivable
 representing positive mark-to-market value of a derivative contract, if
 overdue for a period of 90 days or more, is required to be treated as non-
 performing asset and also makes all other funded facilities granted to the
 client as non-performing asset, following the principle of borrower-wise
 classification. 3. On a review of the matter, it has now been decided to confine the
 applicability of the principle of borrower-wise asset classification to only
 the overdues arising from forward contracts and plain vanilla swaps and
 options. Accordingly, any amount, representing positive mark-to-market
 value of the foreign exchange derivative contracts (other than forward
 contract and plain vanilla swaps and options) that were entered into during
 the period April 2007 to June 2008, which has already crystallised or
 might crystallise in future and is / becomes receivable from the client,
 should be parked in a separate account maintained in the name of the
 client / counterparty. This amount, even if overdue for a period of 90 days
 or more, will not make other funded facilities provided to the client, NPA on
 account of the principle of borrower-wise asset classification, though such
 receivable overdue for 90 days or more shall itself be classified as NPA, as
 per the extent IRAC norms. The classification of all other assets of such
 clients will, however, continue to be governed by the extant IRAC norms. 4. These relaxations will also be applicable to the foreign branches of
 Indian banks. All other instructions contained in the aforesaid Circular of
 October 13, 2008 remain unchanged." The respondent banks say that the term "borrower" in the master circular
carries the weight of how it is defined in the various enactments relating to
banking law. They rely on the definition of borrower in Section 45-A of the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. They submit that a bank is permitted to
transact in derivatives by virtue of the sanction therefor in Section 45-V of the
said Act of 1934. They also rely on the extended definition of borrower in the Credit Information Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005 . The relevant statutory
provisions may be noticed in such context: Credit Information Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005 "2. Definitions.--In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-- (b) "borrower" means any person who has been granted loan or any
 other credit facility by a credit institution and includes a client of a credit
 institution; (c) "client" includes-- (i) a guarantor or a person who proposes to give guarantee or
 security for a borrower of a credit institution; or (ii) a person-- (A) who has obtained or seeks to obtain financial assistance from a
 credit institution, by way of loans, advances, hire purchase, leasing
 facility, letter of credit, guarantee facility, venture capital assistance
 or by way of credit cards or in any other form or manner; (B) who has raised or seeks to raise money by issue of security as
 defined in clause (h) of Section 2 of the Securities Contracts
 (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), or by issue of commercial paper,
 depository receipt or any other instrument; (C) whose financial standing has been assessed or is proposed to be
 assessed by a credit institution or any other person or institution as
 may, by notification, be directed by the Reserve Bank;" The bank retorts that the petitioners have been unkind to it in picking out
certain extracts from its financial statement without referring to the bank's
treatment of risk exposures in derivatives which has been explained elsewhere in
the notes: The bank reasons that any amount due to a bank could be regarded as an
asset and as such capable of being classified as an NPA if the amount remained
outstanding for such period as stipulated by the Reserve Bank in its guidelines
relating to NPA. It relies on the accounting principle referred to in a footnote to
the relevant accounting standards (AS-26) in Ramaiya's Guide to the Companies
Act (16th Ed.): The petitioners also reveal their industry in sifting through relevant
accounting provisions and the commentaries thereon. They say that a credit
facility is quite distinct from any other facility in modern banking practice. The
petitioners have 'googled' to obtain some features of the distinction. They refer to
Paget's Law of Banking (10th ed.). The petitioners rely on the definition of "credit
limit" in P. Ramanatha Aiyar's Advanced Law Lexicon (3rd ed.) appearing at page
1127 of the book: The petitioners seek to discount the body of banking law and practice cited
by the respondent banks on the legal principle that the impugned decision has to
 sustain itself only by the reasons furnished therein in support thereof and it
cannot draw any sustenance from the world of reasons that the order has left
out. The petitioners rely on a decision reported at (2005) 12 SCC 508 ( Bangalore
Development Authority v. R. Hanumaiah ) which quotes from Mohinder Singh Gill (supra) at paragraph 56 that held that orders had to stand or fall on the basis of
the reasons contained therein and reasons could not be supplemented by later
affidavits or further explanation. The respondent banks say that the extent of assessment in judicial review
is limited primarily to looking at the decision-making process and not
reappraising the facts or sifting through evidence. They rely on the judgments
reported at (1992) Supp 2 SCC 312 (H.B. Gandhi, Excise and Taxation Officer-
cum-Assessing Authority, Karnal v. Gopi Nath & Sons); (1997) 3 SCC 72 ( Indian
Oil Corporation Ltd. v. Ashok Kumar Arora ); AIR 1959 SC 942 ( Mahant Moti Das v.
S.P. Sahi ) and (2008) 9 SCC 1 ( Shamshad Ahmad v. Tilak Raj Bajaj ) in support of
such argument. The most recent pronouncement at paragraph 38 of the report in
Shamshad Ahmad may be seen: The issue has to be addressed as in a demurrer as to the existence and the
quantum of debt. If such is the benchmark then there arises no question of
assessing facts or appreciating evidence. Just as in a demurrer, the facts here
may be assumed as stated qua the bank's claim against the petitioner company.
 Even if it is accepted that the company has failed to discharge a contractual debt
to the bank, the question remains as to whether the bank could invoke the
master circular to label the petitioner company as a willful defaulter. There is no
doubt that the bank, just as any other creditor, has the inherent right to
maintain that the petitioner company has willfully defaulted in not meeting its
financial obligation to the bank. But that is also the basis on which every money
suit is founded. There is a difference between the bank having a right to its
opinion that the company is a willful defaulter and the bank seeking to use the
master circular to lend more acceptability to its opinion that the company is a
willful defaulter; and inflicting punishment thereby on the company. The civil consequence that visits a person adjudged to be a willful defaulter
under the master circular is serious. It would impinge on the inherent right of a
person to carry on business. Even the Reserve Bank is cautious and it advises
banks and financial institutions to be judicious in using the master circular. It is
imperative then that the class of persons that the master circular seeks to catch
in its dragnet is ascertained. The many other circulars, guidelines and law relied upon by the
respondent banks now had not been referred to in the decision of April 7, 2009 of
the bank's grievance redressal committee. But it would be naive to suggest that
the fact that such other body of material now brought to sustain the decision be
disregarded because it had not been specifically referred to at paragraph 10 or
thereabouts of the decision. The committee opined that the terms "borrower" and
"lender" in the relevant circular "are colloquial in usage and are a subclass of the
wider debtor/creditor relationship." It also suggested that "financial facilities
sanctioned by a bank and availed by a customer are conveniently referred to as a
borrowing by the customer and the customer's account is therefore generally
referred to and called a borrowal account." The only statutory provision that the
committee relied on was Section 45-A of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Clause (b) of Section 45-A defines "borrower" to mean any person to whom
a credit limit has been sanctioned by any banking company, whether availed of
or not. Certain instances are indicated in the inclusive definition. The
fundamental basis of the definition is that a credit limit has to be sanctioned by a
banking company to a person for such person to be regarded as a borrower
under the said Act. The sanction letters that the bank has relied on here do not
speak of any credit limits. They, no doubt, set limits but such limits cannot be
regarded as credit limits. The limits in the sanction letters would only show the
extent of the transaction that was permitted. Further, in the additional
conditions that the bank stipulated, it provided for an undertaking to be
furnished by the company "to cash collateralise the negative MTM (over & above
the limit of INR 200 Las) every 15 days." That would imply that security was
required to be furnished only for the amount by which the negative MTM
exceeded the sanctioned limit. It is another matter that no security was sought or
furnished even when the negative MTM shot well over the sanctioned limit, but
that may not be material for the present purpose. It appears that the limit set in
the sanction letters was only to define the range of the transaction and not
specify the extent of any borrowing facility accorded by the bank to the company. The committee's justification has to be read with the appreciation that the
few sentences that it expended in dealing with such issue in its decision are
backed by years of experience in, and understanding of, banking business. Just
as someone legally trained would casually use an expression like res judicata and
not care to explain it, taking it for granted that the doctrine would be understood;
a banker's opinion on terms used in banking parlance have to be assessed not on
the parsimony in expression but on the weight of the underlying body of thought. Dues in respect of derivative transactions can also be included within the
larger basket of NPA; but merely by a virtue of an amount outstanding being
regarded as an NPA, it would not make the master circular applicable to the
debtor. A debt is certainly an asset and as such it can be brought in within the
 definition of NPA if it remains unserviced for any length of time. Even otherwise,
it is open to the Reserve Bank to specifically include debts due to banks and
financial institutions on account of derivative or other transactions within the
fold of NPA. But even in the circular on income recognition and related matters of
July 1, 2008 that the Reserve Bank has relied on, the essential condition for an
account to be treated as an NPA is that it has to be "a loan or an advance." It was
only under the circular of October 13, 2008 that derivative transactions were
brought into the sweep of NPA accounts; and the other borrowal accounts of the
same customer had to be linked such that the entire portfolio of accounts would
be NPA. But the subsequent clarification of October 29, 2008 delinked the
customer's borrowal accounts from the defaulting derivative transaction account
in certain cases. Under the subject transaction, the bank afforded the petitioner company a
period of time - the length of which was pre-determined - to furnish security as
cover for the extent of the company's indebtedness to the bank in excess of a
limit sanctioned previously. It was possible, depending on foreign exchange rate
fluctuations, that the extent of the company's indebtedness to the bank on a
given day could stand drastically reduced over the next few days without the
company having paid the bank a paisa during the period. The arrangement
between the bank and the company allowed a form of deferred payment. But that
may not be the same as giving a loan or an advance. In a sense, the reference to the other circulars may result in a wild goose
chase. In theory, Reserve Bank has the authority to stipulate what would qualify
as an NPA and what would not; who could be roped in under the master circular
as a willful defaulter and who could not. The issue as to the applicability of the
master circular to the transaction between the bank and the petitioner company
has assumed gravity in the Reserve Bank's endorsement of the bank's use
thereof. And it is primarily such master circular that has to be seen as to
 whether it could reasonably have been read to include a debtor in respect of the
subject nature of transaction. The consideration here is not whether the Reserve Bank could have
expressly included derivative contracts or intended to include parties engaged in
derivative transactions with banks and financial institutions within the
expression of willful defaulter in the circular. The more appropriate query is
whether it did. Clause 2.1(a) of the master circular has to be judged by the
company it keeps. Sub-clauses (b), (c) and (d) under clause 2.1 inarguably refer
to the use of funds and finances relating to credit facilities granted. It would be
inappropriate to divorce the opening sub-clause from the others. Section 45-V of the Reserve Bank of India Act conceives of derivative
transactions being entered by one bank or financial institution with another. To
read the master circular to imply that it would apply to a party to a contract with
a bank regarding derivatives would amount to holding that one bank could label
another as a willful defaulter with the attendant consequences that the master
circular brings. Whether or not that would be permissible is not a germane
consideration now. But it would be adventurous to hold that such a situation can
be brought about by the master circular without it specifically covering the same. There appears to be an error of jurisdiction committed by the bank and its
committees in applying the master circular in respect of the bank's claim against
the petitioner company. Consequently, the decision of April 7, 2009 is set aside
and WP No. 7729 (W) of 2009 is allowed to such extent. Since there does not appear to be any apparent mala fides on the bank's
part except its eagerness to realise what it believes to be its just dues, there will
be no order as to costs. Urgent certified photostat copies of this judgment, if applied for, be
supplied to the parties upon compliance with all requisite formalities.
 (Sanjib Banerjee, J.)