This appeal is filed by the Appellant praying to set aside
the judgment dated 26.11.2021 passed by the learned 38th 2 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

ACMM, Bengaluru in C.C.No.14598/2020 and prayed to
acquit him in the said case. 2. The appellant of this appeal was the accused
before the Trial Court. The respondent of this appeal was the
complainant before the Trial court. The rank of the parties to
this appeal will be hereinafter referred to with the same rank
as assigned to them before the trial court for the sake of
convenience. 3. The brief facts which leads to file this appeal in
nutshell are as follows: to the complainant company on 26.02.2020 towards partly
discharge of his liability. The accused in order to discharge his
liability had issued two cheques in favour of the complainant
company bearing cheque No.036972 and 036971, dated
29.06.2020 and 30.06.2020, for Rs.6,00,000/- each, drawn on
SVC Co-operative Bank, Mysore Branch. The said cheques
were presented by the complainant company for realization.
But those two cheques dishonoured by the banker of the 4 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

accused with endorsement "Funds Insufficient". Thereafter,
the complainant company had issued statutory notice to the
accused on 13.07.2020 through RPAD by informing about
dishonour of cheque and demanding the payment of cheque
amount. The legal notice was duly served upon the accused
on 15.07.2020. Inspite of receipt of the demand notice, the
accused has failed to pay the cheque amount. Hence, the
complainant company has alleged before trial court that the
accused had committed the offence punishable u/ Sec.138 of
N.I. Act. 4. After filing of the complaint, the trial court took
cognizance for the offence punishable u/ Sec.138 of N.I.Act
against the accused. The complainant company had adduced
the sworn statement of its authorized officer as C.W.1 before
the trial court. The trial court after perusing the private
compliant, sworn statement and the documents produced by
complainant company was pleased to registered criminal
case against the accused in CC.No.14598/2020 for the
offence punishable u/ Sec.138 of N.I. Act and issued
summons to the accused. 5. The accused had appeared before the trial court
after the service of summons and he was enlarged on bail.
On appearance of the accused before the trial court, the trial
court had recorded the plea of accused for the offence
u/ Sec.138 of N.I.Act. The accused pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried. Hence, trial court has posted the matter
for evidence of the complainant. Crl.A.No.1125/2021 6. In order to prove the allegations made in the
complaint, the complainant company had adduced the oral
evidence of its authorized officer as P.W.1. P.W.1 had
produced 8 documents and got them marked as Ex.P.1 to P.8.
Thereafter, the trial court had recorded the statements of the
accused u/ Sec.313 of Cr.P.C. The accused has not chosen to
lead his defence evidence. But the accused has confronted
three documents to P.W.1 during the course of cross-
examination and those documents are marked as Ex.D.1 to
D.3. Then the matter was posted by the trial court for
arguments. 7. The trial court, after hearing the arguments and
after perusing the oral and documentary evidence was
pleased to pass the judgment dated 26.11.2021 by convicting
the accused for the offence punishable u/ Sec.138 of N.I. Act.
The trial court has sentenced the accused to pay fine of
Rs.12,72,000/- and in default of payment of fine amount he
shall undergo simple imprisonment for one year. The trial
court has directed to pay Rs.12,67,000/- out of the said fine
amount as compensation to the complainant company and to
forfeit remaining Rs.5,000/- amount towards fine. The
accused being aggrieved by the said judgment of the trial
court has preferred this appeal. 8. Grounds of appeal in nutshell as urged in the
appeal memorandum are as follows:- The appellant never misappropriated or misused any funds of
the respondent. The appellant never issued the disputed
cheques to the respondent. (e) The Learned Magistrate has failed to look into the
fact that the respondent has clearly very admitted in his cross-
examination that the appellant has not misused any funds of
the respondent. The respondent has not produced any
document to show that the appellant has misused or
misappropriated the funds of the respondent. (f) The Learned Magistrate has failed to look into the
fact that the respondent has failed to prove or substantiate the
ingredients of Sec.138 of N.I. Act. (g) There is no legally enforceable debt against the
appellant. The appellant has not committed any offence as
alleged by the respondent. The Learned Magistrate has failed
to observe the admission of the respondent in his cross-
examination while writing the judgment. Crl.A.No.1125/2021 (h) The Learned Magistrate has failed to look into the
facts which are elicited by the appellant's counsel in the
cross-examination of the respondent. The Learned Magistrate
has not recorded oral arguments submitted on behalf of the
appellant in his judgment. (i) Viewed from any angle the impugned judgment of
conviction and sentence passed by Learned Magistrate is
illegal, improper and opposed to law and on facts of the case.
perverse and cause untold mental agony and shock and
same is liable to be set aside. On these among other grounds stated in the appeal
memorandum, the appellant has prayed to set aside the order
of the trial court. 9. After filing of the appeal, it is registered as
Crl.A.No.1125/2021 and notice was issued to the respondent.
After service of the notice, the respondent was appeared
through his counsel. Thereafter, the lower court record was
called for. After receipt of lower court record, the matter was
posted for arguments. 10. Heard the arguments of the Learned counsel for
the appellant and respondent. Perused the appeal
memorandum, trial court records and other materials on
record. 11. Having done so, the following points will arise for
my consideration: Crl.A.No.1125/2021 Sec.138 of N.I. Act provides as follows: 15. Thus from reading the aforesaid section, it is clear
that the complainant company has to prove the following
essential ingredients for holding the accused guilty of offence
under the said section. (a) The cheque has been drawn by the accused on
Bank account which is maintained by him with a particular
Banker. (b) The amount of money mentioned in the cheque is
for discharging the legal liability either wholly or partially and (c) The cheque is dishonoured or it is returned unpaid
due to insufficiency of funds etc., 10 Crl.A.No.1125/2021 16. In order to prove the allegations made in the
complaint, the complainant company had adduced the oral
evidence of its authorized officer as P.W.1. P.W.1 in his
examination-in-chief filed by way of affidavit has stated that
the complainant company is engaged in the photography
business, operation of photo-lab stores and provision of other
allied services in various parts of the country. P.W.1 in his
examination-in-chief has further stated that the accused was
employed by the complainant company in 2010 as a
Manager of one of the complainant company's stores namely
'Canon Image Sqaure' situated at 1st Main, Saraswathipuram,
Mysore. P.W.1 in his examination-in-chief has further stated
that the accused was required to submit report to the
complainant company with a summary of the store's monthly
sales and ledger account indication the details thereof. P.W.1
in his examination-in-chief has further stated that the
accused has indicated in the monthly sales reports of the
store that many customers while paying the bills had availed
EMI option, which is offered by the complainant company to
its customers through Bajaj Finaserv Ltd. P.W.1 in his
examination-in-chief has further stated that the complainant
company conducted an audit of all its finances in relation to
the store for the past three years i.e. from 2017-2020. P.W.1
in his examination-in-chief has further stated that the
complainant company came to know that customers had
been purchasing products from the store by paying the full
retail price by cash/online payment to the accused personal
account through 'Google pay' etc. instead of the complainant
company's account. P.W.1 in his examination-in-chief has 11 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

further stated that the accused had falsely indicated in the
monthly sales reports that the said customers had only paid a
portion of the retail price in cash and availed the EMI option
through Bajaj Finserv Ltd. for the remaining amount and
misappropriation and fraud played by the accused and
shares false report with the complainant company. P.W.1 in
his examination-in-chief has further stated that the
complainant company had lodged complainant against the
accused with Saraswathipuram police station on 21.01.2020.
P.W.1 in his examination-in-chief has further stated that in the
statement before police, the accused expressly admitted the
misappropriation of funds by him and undertook to return a
sum of Rs.37,00,000/- to the complainant company in order
to avoid prosecution. P.W.1 in his examination-in-chief has
further stated that the accused has given another statement
on 26.02.2020 before the Saraswathipuram police admitting
his misappropriation and stating that he has repaid
Rs.7,00,000/- to the complainant company on 26.02.2020
towards partly discharge of his liability. P.W.1 in his
examination-in-chief has further stated that the accused in
order to discharge his liability had issued two cheques in
favour of the complainant company bearing cheques
No.036972 and 036971, dated 29.06.2020 and 30.06.2020,
for Rs.6,00,000/- each, drawn on SVC Co-operative Bank,
Mysore Branch. P.W.1 in his examination-in-chief has further
stated that the said cheques were presented by the
complainant company for realization. P.W.1 in his
examination-in-chief has further stated that those two
cheques were dishonoured by the banker of the accused 12 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

with endorsement "Funds Insufficient". P.W.1 in his
examination-in-chief has further stated that thereafter, the
complainant company had issued statutory notice to the
accused on 13.07.2020 through RPAD by informing about
dishonour of cheque and demanding the payment of cheque
amount. P.W.1 in his examination-in-chief has further stated
that the legal notice was duly served upon the accused on
15.07.2020 and inspite of receipt of the demand notice, the
accused has failed to pay the cheque amount. P.W.1 in his
examination-in-chief has further stated that the accused had
not paid the loan amount and thereby the accused had
committed the offence punishable u/ Sec.138 of N.I. Act. 17. P.W.1 apart from adducing his oral evidence has
produced certain documents. Ex.P.1 and 2 are the original
cheques bearing No.036972 and 036971, dated 29.06.2020
and 30.06.2020, for Rs.6,00,000/- each, drawn on SVC Co-
operative Bank, Mysore Branch. Ex.P.1(a) and P.2(a) are the
signatures of the accused on Ex.P.1 and P.2 cheques. Ex.P.3
and 4 are the bank endorsements. In Ex.P.3 and 4, it is
mentioned that Ex.P.1 and 2 cheques were dishonoured due
to "Funds Insufficient" in the bank account of accused. P.W.1
has produced the office copy of legal notice dated
13.07.2020 issued by him to the accused at Ex.P.7. Ex.P.5 is
the postal receipt. Ex.P.6 is the postal acknowledgment.
Ex.P.8 is the reply notice issued by the accused to Ex.P.7
legal notice. 18. The accused has not disputed the fact that
Ex.P.1 and 2 cheques are belonging to him and he has not 13 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

disputed his signature on Ex.P.1 and 2 cheques. The
accused has not adduced any defence evidence on his
behalf in order to prove how the cheques belonging to him
came in possession of the complainant company. In Ex.P.8
reply notice, the accused has stated that on 21.01.2020,
Saraswathipuram police have called him to the police station
by issuing notice and when he had gone to the police station
in order to given his reply, some person on behalf of the
complainant company threatened him and they have took his
statement forcibly in the police station and they have also got
blank signed cheques from him and mis-utilized the said
cheques. From the reply notice of the accused, the defence
of the accused is clear that the complainant has obtained
some blank signed cheques from the accused forcibly in the
police station. Whether the accused has succeeded in
proving his defence or not will be discussed in later paras. 19. The accused has not disputed the fact that
Ex.P.1 and 2 cheques are belonging to him and they bears
his signature and they were drawn from the bank account
maintained by him. The complainant has presented the said
cheques for encashment and those cheques were
dishonoured by the banker of the accused on account of
"Funds Insufficient" in the account. Hence, I am of the
opinion that the complainant company will became the holder
of the cheques within the meaning of Sec.8 of N.I.Act. Once
issuance cheque by the drawer is admitted, presumption
under Sec.118(a) r/w. S.139 of N.I.Act must follow. Crl.A.No.1125/2021 Sec.118(a) of N.I.Act provides as follows: Sec.139 of N.I.Act provides as follows: 20. Thus, u/s.139 of N.I.Act, the initial presumption
arises in favour of the complainant company that the said
cheque was issued for discharge of legally enforceable debt.
Once the cheque is proved to be relating to the account of
the accused and he admits the signature on the said cheque,
then the initial presumption as contemplated u/ Sec.139 of
N.I.Act has to be raised by the court in favour of the
complainant company. Further u/ Sec.118(a) of N.I.Act there
is presumption that every negotiable instrument was made or
drawn for consideration, and that every such instrument,
when it has been accepted for consideration. Presumption
u/ Sec.118(a) and 139 of N.I.Act is a legal presumption and it
is a mandatory presumption. The initial mandatory statutory
presumption as provided u/ Sec.118 r/w. S.139 of N.I.Act are
in favour of the complainant company. Crl.A.No.1125/2021 21. In the recent decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court
of India reported in (2021) 5 Supreme Court cases 283 : 22. Further in the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India in Para No.15 has observed that the
presumption raised u/ Sec.118 and 139 of N.I.Act are
rebuttable in nature. A probable defence needs to be raised,
which must meet the standard of "preponderance of
probability", and not mere possibility. Further, a bare denial
of passing of consideration would not aid the case of the
accused. In Para No.17 of the judgment, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India has held that even if the arguments
raised by the appellants are taken at face value that only a
blank cheque and signed blank stamp papers were given to
the respondent, yet the statutory presumption cannot be
obliterated, because, legally, even a blank cheque leaf,
voluntarily signed and handed over by the accused, which is
towards some payment, would attract presumption under Section 139 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, in the 16 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

absence of any cogent evidence to show that the cheque
was not issued in discharge of a debt. In the aforesaid
judgment, in Para No.14, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India
has held that when the accused has admitted his signature
on the cheque and the deed, the trial court ought to have
presumed that the cheque was issued as consideration for a
legally enforceable debt. It is further observed that the trial
court fell in error when it called upon the respondent
complainant company to explain the circumstances under
which the appellants were liable to pay. It is further observed
that, such approach of the trial court was directly in the teeth
of the established legal position and amounts to a patent
error of law. 23. Thus from the aforesaid decision of Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India in Kalamani Tex case, it is clear that
once the accused admits his signature on the cheque, it can
be presumed u/ Sec.139 of N.I.Act that the cheque was
issued for discharge of legally enforceable debt. The court
cannot insist the complainant company to explain the
circumstances under which the accused is liable to pay the
cheque amount. 24. Thus from the provisions of Sec.118(a) and Sec.139 of N.I.Act, it is clear that the court shall raise
presumption in favour of the complainant company that he
has received the cheque in question for discharge of legal
liabilities and cheque was made and drawn for said purpose.
This principles is also clearly held by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India in Kalamani Tex case as discussed above. Crl.A.No.1125/2021

The burden is upon the accused to adduced satisfactory
evidence to rebut the strong presumption as provided
u/ Sec.118 and Sec.139 of N.I.Act. Hence, the contention of
the Learned counsel for the appellant that the burden is upon
the complainant company to prove the existence of legally
enforceable debt cannot be acceptable one. 25. The accused in order to rebut the presumption
existing in favour of the complainant company u/ Sec.118(a) and 139 of N.I.Act has not adduced any defence evidence on
his behalf. As it is stated earlier, in the reply notice issued by
the accused at Ex.P.8 dated 03.08.2020 to the legal notice
issued by the complainant company as per Ex.P.7, the
accused has taken the specific defence that on 21.01.2020,
Saraswathipuram police, Mysore have issued notice to him to
appear before them and when he had gone to the said police
station to give reply, some persons on behalf of complainant
company have threatened him and made him to give
statement before police and they have took several blank
signed cheques from him and mis-utilized the said cheques
by presenting the same for realization in order to make
unlawful gain for themselves. Whereas no such defence was
taken by the accused during the course of cross-examination
of P.W.1. The accused has not put any suggestion to P.W.1
during the course of cross-examination stating that Ex.P.1
and 2 cheques were obtained by the complainant company
from him in Saraswathipuram police station by threatening
him. Whereas during the course of cross-examination of
P.W.1, it was suggested that P.W.1, Sindhu, Vijay Bhaskar, 18 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

Vaninath Reddy have obtained Ex.P.1 and P.2 disputed
cheques by fraud from him. The said suggestion was clearly
denied by P.W.1. During the course of cross-examination of
P.W.1 it was suggested to P.W.1 that in the police station he,
Vaninath Reddy and Vijay Bhaskar have compromised the
matter with the accused and they have took three cheques
bearing No.036966 for Rs.20,00,000/-, cheque No.036968
for Rs.10,00,000/- and cheque No.036967 for Rs.7,00,000/-.
The said suggestion was admitted by P.W.1. It is further
suggested to P.W.1 that on 20.01.2020 complaint was lodged
before Saraswathipuram police station, Mysore and it was
ended on compromise on 26.01.2020. The said suggestion
was also admitted by P.W.1 in the cross-examination. During
the course of cross-examination of P.W.1 it was suggested to
P.W.1 that the aforesaid three cheques were issued by the
accused as security for the compromise. But in Ex.P.8 reply
notice, the accused has not stated anything about the
aforesaid facts which were suggested to P.W.1 during the
course of his cross-examination. 26. The accused has not elicited anything during the
course of cross-examination of P.W.1 in order to prove the
defence taken by him in Ex.P.8 reply notice. On the other
hand, as it is stated earlier during the course of cross-
examination of P.W.1 it was suggested that Ex.P.1 and 2
cheques were obtained by P.W.1, Sindhu, Vijay Bhaskar,
Vaninath Reddy by exercising fraud on the accused. The said
defence was denied by P.W.1. In order to prove the said
defence, the accused has not adduced his oral evidence and 19 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

he has not produced any documentary evidence. The
accused has not suggested to P.W.1 regarding he, Sindhu,
Vijay Bhaskar, Vaninath Reddy obtaining Ex.P.1 and 2
cheques from him. In order to prove the said fact, the
accused has not adduced his defence evidence. If really
P.W.1, Sindhu, Vijay Bhaskar, Vaninath Reddy have obtained
Ex.P.1 and 2 cheques from the accused by exercising fraud
and if really they have cheated the accused by handing over
those two cheques for complainant company, the accused
would have initiated any criminal action against the P.W.1,
Sindhu, Vijay Bhaskar, Vaninath Reddy. Further if really the
accused had given blank signed cheques to the complainant
company or any other persons on behalf of complainant
company in the police station or elsewhere, immediately the
accused would have given stop payment mandate to his
banker stating that he had issued blank signed cheques to
the complainant company or any other persons on behalf of
complainant company in the police station under threat and
requesting his banker not to honour those two cheques if
they were presented for encashment. But the accused has
also not did the said act. Further if the complainant company
or other persons on behalf of complainant company have
threatened the accused in the police station and if they have
obtained his statement forcibly and if they have obtained
blank signed cheques from him in the police station as
mentioned in Ex.P.8reply notice, the accused would have
lodged complaint against the complainant company and
other concerned persons and against police to the higher
police officials. The accused has not produced any materials 20 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

to show that he has given complaint to the higher police
officials against the Saraswathipuram police station by
alleging that they have made him to come to the police
station and they have made him to given blank signed
cheques to the complainant company in the police station by
threatened him and they have obtained his statement forcibly
in the police station. Even if higher police officials have not
taken any action, the accused would have filed the private
complaint before the court against the concerned persons for
forcing him to given blank signed cheques to the
complainant company and forcing him to give statement
before the police. 27. Except giving Ex.P.8 reply notice and except
cross-examining P.W.1, the accused has not adduced any
oral evidence on his behalf to prove all the defence taken by
him in Ex.P.8 as well as during the course of cross-
examination of P.W.1. The accused has failed to adduce any
sufficient rebuttable evidence to rebut the legal and statutory
presumption existing in favour of the complainant company
u/ Sec.118(a) and 139 of N.I.Act. In Ex.P.8 reply notice, the
accused has not disputed the fact that he was appointed by
the complainant company as promoter. He has also admitted
that he was working as Manager in the complainant
company. He has also admitted the fact that he was doing
the work on behalf of the complainant company. It is stated in
the Ex.P.8 reply notice that the accused was doing a job
honestly and he has good relationship with the complainant
company and use to give every information obtained by the 21 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

customers to the complainant company. He use to give detail
of every financial transaction in relation to the store to the
complainant company through telephone and through e-mail
daily. It is also mentioned in the Ex.P.8 reply notice that the
accused use to give report daily about goods purchased from
the store by the customers relating to the complainant
company along with all the documents. It is also mentioned in
the Ex.P.8 that the accused has not committed any
misappropriation of amount of complainant company. The
burden of proving all the contention taken in Ex.P.8 reply
notice is upon the accused. But the accused in order to prove
the said contention has not adduced any defence evidence
before the trial court. the accused has also not produced any
document to show that he use to send the report daily
through e-mails and he had send all the documents about the
sale of goods belonging to the complainant company etc. and
to prove that he is not liable to pay any amount to the
complainant company and to prove that he has not
misappropriated any funds belonging to the complainant
company. The grounds urged in the reply notice itself is not
sufficient to come to the conclusion that the accused has
rebutted presumption u/ Sec.118(a) and 139 of N.I.Act
existing in favour of the complainant company. Further on the
basis of discussions made above, only that basis of Ex.P.8
reply notice and suggestion put to P.W.1 during the course of
cross-examination of P.W.1, it cannot be come to the
conclusion that the accused has adduced probable defence
to rebut the presumption u/ Sec.118(a) and 139 of N.I.Act
existing in favour of the complainant company. Crl.A.No.1125/2021 28. It is argued on behalf of the appellant that the
complainant company has not produced its audit report in
order to show misappropriation by the accused and
complainant company has failed to prove existence of legally
enforceable debt from the accused. It is already discussed
and held above that when issuance of cheque is admitted
legal presumption u/ Sec.118(a) and 139 of N.I.Act exists in
favour of the complainant company. The accused cannot
escape from his liability only on the ground of non-production
of certain documents by the complainant. The complainant
company has adduced the oral evidence of P.W.1 in order to
prove its contention that the accused has misappropriated
the funds of the complainant company and accused has also
admitted the said fact by giving statement before the police
and he has issued cheque for repayment of the
misappropriated amount in favour of the complainant
company. The accused has not disputed the fact that he was
working in the complainant company. Further he has also not
disputed the fact that the complainant company had lodged
complaint against him before Saraswathipuram police
station. Further he has also not disputed the fact that the said
matter was compromised between him and the complainant
company and he has agreed to pay amount to the
complainant company. Further the accused has also
suggested during the course of cross-examination of P.W.1
that he gave Rs.7,00,000/- to the complainant company on
26.02.2020 as per compromise and he has also given three
cheques for security purpose. It is also admitted on behalf of
the complainant company that the matter was compromised 23 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

for Rs.37,00,000/- in the police station. Further the copy of
the complaint given on behalf of the complainant company is
produced at Ex.D.1. In Ex.D.1, specific allegation is made
against the accused regarding misappropriation of amount of
Rs.50,00,000/- by the accused. Ex.D.2 is the police
acknowledgment. Ex.D.3 is the statement given by the
accused before Saraswathipuram police station stating that
he gave Rs.37,00,000/- to the complainant company and he
has under taken to pay Rs.20,00,000/-, Rs.10,00,000/- and
Rs.7,00,000/- to the complainant company. The complainant
company has adduced sufficient materials before the trial
court to prove the misappropriation of its firms amount by the
accused. It is for the accused to adduce satisfactory
rebuttable evidence to prove that he has not misappropriated
any amount belonging to the complainant company. 29. But the accused has failed to adduce any
rebuttable evidence. If the accused is not liable to pay any
amount to the complainant company and if really accused
has not committed any misappropriation of amount of
complainant company, he would have adduced his defence
evidence and he would have produced daily statement
submitted by him about the sale of goods of complainant
company and other documents to prove that all the accounts
are properly maintained by him and to prove that he has not
misappropriated any funds of the complainant company. If
really he has not misappropriated the amount of complainant
company, what was the necessity to him to entered into
compromise into with complainant company in the police 24 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

station and what was the necessity for him to issue cheques
in favour of the complainant company is not properly
explained by the accused by adducing his defence evidence.
Under these facts and circumstances, the defence of
accused taken in his reply and during cross of P.W.1 does
not seems to be probable and it cannot be believed. Hence, it
can be come to the conclusion that the accused is legally
liable to pay amount to the complainant company and he has
issued Ex.P.1 and 2 cheques in favour of the complainant
company for discharge of his legal liability. On the other
hand, the accused has not adduced any probable defence
evidence before the trial court to prove that he has not issued
Ex.P.1 and 2 cheques for discharge of any legal debt or
liability and he had issued those cheques for some other
purpose. 30. Under these facts and circumstances, I am of
the opinion that the complainant company has proved with
sufficient oral and documentary evidence before the trial
court that the accused has committed the offence punishable u/s.138 of N.I. Act. The trial court has properly and judiciously
considered the oral and documentary evidence adduced on
behalf of the complainant company and accused and the trial
court has properly and judiciously come to the conclusion
that the complainant company has proved all the essential
ingredients of Sec.138 of N.I. act and it has rightly come to
the conclusion that the accused has committed the offence
punishable u/s.138 of N.I. Act. As such, I do not find any
grounds to interfere with the findings of the trial court that the 25 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

complainant company has proved that the accused has
committed the offence punishable u/s.138 of N.I. Act. 31. The accused during the course of cross- examination of P.W.1 has taken one more defence that P.W.1
has no authority to file the complaint on behalf of the
complainant company. It is to be noted here that the
complainant company has filed two cases against the
accused u/s.138 of N.I. Act. In both the cases, the accused
was convicted by the trial court. The accused has preferred
the appeal in both the cases. Another appeal is numbered as
Crl.A.No.1126/2021. Both the appeals were heard together
and posted for judgment on the same day. The TCR of
another case was also received. In the TCR of the
CC.No.14601/2020, it could be seen that P.W.1 has
produced authorization letter issued by one of the partner in
his name at Ex.P.1. The judicial note of the said fact can be
made in this case as both the cases are taken together for
hearing and judgment. In this case also copy of the said
authorization letter is produced before the trial court by the
complainant company. The said authorization letter is issued
by managing partner of the complainant company. During the
course of cross-examination of P.W.1, it is elicited that all the
three partners have to conduct meeting and they have to
decide to whom authorization letter has to be given. Only on
the said ground it can be came to conclusion that P.W.1
before trial court has no authority to file the complaint and to
depose on behalf of the complainant company. The
authorization letter in CC.No.14601/2020 was issued by 26 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

managing partner of the complainant company. In case of
partnership firm is concerned, the act done by any one of the
partner is binding upon the others. One of the managing
partner has also given authorization letter to represent the
firm. Issuance of authorization letter to P.W.1 by managing
partner of complainant company is not disputed by the other
partners. The accused has also not adduced any rebuttable
evidence by disputing authority of P.W.1 to depose on behalf
of the complainant company and to file the complaint on
behalf of the complainant company. The accused has also
not taken any defence that the person who has issued
authorization letter is not the managing partner of the
complainant company. The offence alleged to have been
committed by the accused is against the complainant
company. It is complainant company which has to be
represented one person. The person who has represented
the complainant company before trial court is the authorized
person engaged by the managing partner of the complainant
company. If the compensation amount is awarded in this
case, it has to be go to the account of the complainant
company and not to the account of P.W.1. Ultimately the
interest of complainant company is the main thing that has to
be considered. Under these facts and circumstances, the
complaint which has been filed by P.W.1 on behalf of the
complainant company cannot be considered as not
maintainable in law for want of authorization letter by all the
partners of the complainant company. On the said ground,
the complainant filed by the complainant company cannot be
rejected. Crl.A.No.1125/2021 32. The grounds urged on behalf of the appellant in
the memorandum of appeal are not sufficient to come to the
conclusion that the trial court is erred in convicted the
accused for the offence punishable u/s.138 of N.I. Act . The
trial court after recording statement of accused u/ Sec.313 of
Cr.P.C. has posted the matter for defence evidence of the
accused. The trial court has given sufficient time to the
accused to lead his defence evidence. But the accused did
not adduce his defence evidence before the trial court. The
trial court has also allowed the application filed by the
accused u/ Sec.311 of Cr.P.C. on payment of cost and
recalled P.W.1 for further cross-examination and posted the
matter for defence evidence. After cross-examination of
P.W.1, the accused has not adduced his defence evidence.
As such, I do not find any merits in the contention of the
accused that the trial court has not given him sufficient
opportunity. I do not find any merits in the written arguments
submitted by the Learned counsel for the appellant. Under
these facts and circumstances, the complainant company
has proved that the accused has committed the offence
punishable u/s.138 of N.I. Act and proved all the essential
ingredients of Sec.138 of N.I. Act. The trial court has rightly
come to the conclusion that the accused has committed the
offence punishable u/s.138 of N.I. Act and trial court has
rightly convicted the accused for said offence. As such, I do
not find any grounds to interfere with said finding of trial
court. 33. The trial court has sentenced the accused to pay
fine of Rs.12,72,000/-. As per Sec.138 of N.I.Act, the learned 28 Crl.A.No.1125/2021

Magistrate has got discretion to sentence the accused to
undergo imprisonment for the period up to two years or to
impose fine which may extend to twice the amount of the
cheque or with both. The learned Magistrate by exercising
his discretion has sentenced the accused only with fine of
Rs.12,72,000/-. By considering the length of trial, date of
issuance of cheque and interest on the cheque amount etc.,
the discretion exercise by the learned Magistrate is also
seems to be proper and judicious. As such, I do not find any
grounds to interfere with the sentence passed by the trial
court. As such, I am of the opinion that the impugned
judgment of the trial court is deserves to confirmed and the
appeal filed by the appellant is deserves to be dismissed.
Accordingly, I answer Points No.1 to 3 in Negative. 34. Point No.4:- In view of my findings on point No.1
to 3, I proceed to pass the following: