MANISHA BATRA, J (ORAL):- by the common residents of the villers. As per the scheme, 80% subsidy was

to be granted for purchase of the aforementioned equipments and the

remaining 20% was to be deposited by the respective Gram Panchayats. The

equipments were to be purchased after passing resolution by the Gram

Panchayat and producing requisite documents in the office of Chief

Agricultural Officer. The petitioner by conniving with his wife Hakam Devi,

who was village Sarpanch and with co-accused Bhim Sain, proprietor of one

serve, showed purchase of the aforementioned equipments on behalf of

Gram Panchayat by preparing a fake and fabricated resolution and also got

prepared and issued a bill for a sum of Rs. 5,10,000/- in the name of Gram

Panchayat by the firm of co-accused Bhim Sain. The bill was deposited with

the concerned officer and the amount of subsidy was got released in favour

of accused Bhim Sain. It was alleged that infact, no equipments had been

purchased and the residents of the village as well as the concerned

department were cheated and defrauded. 3. As per the further allegations, on receipt of the aforementioned

complaint, initially inquiry was conducted and it transpired that the accused

Hakam Devi in connivance with the present petitioner and co-accused Bhim

Sain, who is proprietor of firm Brothers Agro Tech and is related to her

taken undue advantage of the scheme of Central Government by preparing a

resolution by fabricating and forging the signatures of Panch members

Bimla Rani and Ramesh Rani and had withdrawn subsidy to the tune of

Rs.3,95,400/-. A case under Section 420 of IPC was registered. The co-

accused Hakam Devi and Bhim Sain moved applications for grant of

anticipatory bail and joined investigation in pursuance of the benefit of

 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 29-03-2025 09:05:33 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:041171

CRM-M-12727-2025 3-

interim bail granted to them. Apprehending his arrest, the petitioner moved

an application for grant of pre-arrest bail before the learned Additional

Sessions Judge, Fazilka, which was dismissed vide order dated 17.01.2025. 4. It is argued by learned counsel for the petitioner that he has

been falsely implicated in this case, due to being husband of the village

Sarpanch and because of the political rivalry. He has nothing to do with the

village Panchayat. He is not beneficiary of the transaction and the 80%

subsidy had been received in the bank account of firm of co-accused Bhim

Sain. No loss has been caused to anyone. The machinery as purchased was

lying in the house of the village Sarpanch i.e. his wife and no fraud has been

committed. No wrongful loss has been caused to anyone. He is ready to join

the investigation. His custodial interrogation is not required. No recovery is

to be effected from him. Co-accused have been extended benefit of

anticipatory bail. On parity, he too deserves to be given the same benefit.

Therefore, it is urged that the petition deserves to be allowed. 5. Status report has been filed by respondent-State. It is submitted

therein and argued by learned Assistant Advocate General, Punjab that there

are serious allegations against the petitioner, who is infact the master mind

of the crime. By hatching a conspiracy with the co-accused, he got prepared

a resolution by fabricating signatures of two other Panches of the Gram

Panchayat and withdrew subsidy of Rs. 3,95,400/-. The equipments which

were purported to be purchased for the good of the common persons of the

village, had been shown to be received by him as per the record/photographs

of the firm of the co-accused. His active connivance with the commission of

the concerned offences was reflected from the fact that in the invoice/bills

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 29-03-2025 09:05:33 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:041171

CRM-M-12727-2025 4-

qua purchase of happy seeder and super seeder equipments, some particular

chasis and plate numbers had been given but on coming to know about the

fact that fraud committed by him was unearthed, the petitioner in connivance

with the co-accused had procured the same equipments from the co-accused

Bhim Sain but they were found to be having different chasis numbers and

tampering had been made on chasis number and serial numbers of the plates

of these equipments also. The Panching code affixed on the equipments was

differed from the codes as given in the invoice. Wrongful loss has been

caused to the Government authorities. The allegations require deeper probe.

The case is at its nascent stage. Therefore, it is argued that he does not

deserve to be extended benefit of pre-arrest bail. 6. I have heard learned counsel for the parties at considerable

length and have gone through the record carefully. 7. The allegations against the petitioner are that he in connivance

with the co-accused had cheated the central Government as well as other

government departments by fabricating a resolution from the Gram

Panchayat of his village by taking advantage of the fact that his wife is

elected Sarpanch of the village. In pursuance of the conspiracy so hatched,

happy seeder and super seeder equipments had been shown to be purchased

from the firm of accused Bhim Sain for the purpose of use of villagers at

large and subsidy amount of Rs. 3,95,400/- has been transferred in the

account of his firm without withdrawing any amount from the bank account

of Gram Panchayat, the rest of 20% amount was shown to be given,

whereas, the firm of the co-accused had never been given any such account.

All this was apparently done to cheat the government and cause wrongful

 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 29-03-2025 09:05:33 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:041171

CRM-M-12727-2025 5-

loss. The involvement of the petitioner in commission of the subject

offences is prima facie made out from the allegations in the FIR. Keeping in

view the nature of these allegations, role attributed to the petitioner, as well

as for conducting proper and thorough investigation in the matter, custodial

interrogation of the petitioner is must. Moreso, no extra ordinary or

exceptional circumstance for grant of benefit of pre-arrest bail is made out in

favour of the petitioner. Simply because of the co-accused have been granted

benefit of bail, his prayer does not deserve to be allowed. In view the

discussion as made above, I am of the considered opinion that the petition

does not deserve to be allowed. Accordingly, the same is dismissed. 8. It is, however, clarified that the observations made hereinabove

shall not be construed as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 9. Since the main petition has been dismissed, pending

application, if any, is rendered infructuous. [MANISHA BATRA]
 JUDGE
25th March, 2025
Parveen Sharma 1. Whether speaking/ reasoned : Yes / No 2. Whether reportable : Yes / No

 5 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 29-03-2025 09:05:33 :::