Hon'ble Vivek Kumar Singh,J. 1.	Heard Dr. L.P. Misra, assisted by Sri Nadeem Murtaza, learned counsel for the petitioner, Sri Jaideep Narain Mathur, learned Senior Advocate, assisted by Sri S.N. Tilhari, learned counsel for the State and Sri I.B. Singh, learned Senior Advocate, assisted by Ms. Ashmita Singh, learned counsel for the complainant/opposite party no.5. 2.	By means of this petition, the petitioner has prayed following main reliefs:- 3.	The main contention to assail the impugned FIR are two fold. Firstly, no specific allegation against the present petitioner has been levelled to constitute, prima facie, offence under Section 386 IPC. Even otherwise, no offence as alleged in the FIR is, prima facie, made out against the petitioner. If the allegation regarding extortion of money is taken on its face value, as per the allegation of the FIR, in that case too, at the best offence under Section 384 IPC may be attracted, however, the petitioner is denying the aforesaid allegation, but in that case, the punishment under those sections would be below seven years and the investigation may be conducted as per the directions and guidelines of the Apex Court in re; Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar , (2014) 8 SCC 273, by giving prior notice under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. Secondly, no FIR against the present petitioner can be lodged in view of the bar of Section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (hereinafter referred to as " P.C. Act "). 4.	Dr. Misra has further submitted that since the FIR has been lodged under Section 7 of P.C. Act besides other sections of IPC , therefore, compliance of Section 17-A of P.C. Act would be mandatory. Sections 7 & 17-A of P.C. Act are being reproduced herein below:- [17A. Enquiry or Inquiry or investigation of offences relatable to recommendations made or decision taken by public servant in discharge of official functions or duties.-- No police officer shall conduct any enquiry or inquiry or investigation into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant under this Act, where the alleged offence is relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by such public servant in discharge of his official functions or duties, without the previous approval-- 5.	Dr. Misra has submitted that compliance of Section 17-A of P.C. Act is mandatory. In support of his aforesaid submission, he has placed reliance upon the decision of the Apex Court in re; Yashwant Sinha and Others v. Central Bureau of Investigation through its Director and Another, (2020) 2 SCC 338, referring paras 117, 118 & 119, which are as under:- "6. We are also aware that recently, Section 17-A of the Act has been brought in by way of an amendment to introduce the requirement of prior permission of the Government for investigation or inquiry under the Prevention of Corruption Act . 7. We are also aware that this will place you in the peculiar situation, of having to ask the accused himself, for permission to investigate a case against him. We realise that your hands are tied in this matter, but we request you to at least take the first step, of seeking permission of the Government under Section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act for investigating this offence and under which, "the concerned authority shall convey its decision under this section within a period of three months, which may, for reasons to be recorded in writing by such authority, be extended by a further period of one month"." (emphasis supplied) 118. Therefore, the petitioners have filed the complaint fully knowing that Section 17-A constituted a bar to any inquiry or enquiry or investigation unless there was previous approval. In fact, a request is made to at least take the first step of seeking permission under Section 17-A of the 2018 Act. Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 298 of 2018 was filed on 24-10-2018 and the complaint is based on non-registration of the FIR. There is no challenge to Section 17-A . Under the law, as it stood, both on the date of filing the petition and even as of today, Section 17-A continues to be on the statute book and it constitutes a bar to any inquiry or enquiry or investigation. The petitioners themselves, in the complaint, request to seek approval in terms of Section 17-A but when it comes to the relief sought in the writ petition, there was no relief claimed in this behalf. 119. Even proceeding on the basis that on petitioners' complaint, an FIR must be registered as it purports to disclose cognizable offences and the Court must so direct, will it not be a futile exercise having regard to Section 17-A . I am, therefore, of the view that though otherwise the petitioners in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 298 of 2018 may have made out a case, having regard to the law actually laid down in Lalita Kumari [Lalita Kumari v. State of U.P. , (2014) 2 SCC 1 : (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 524] , and more importantly, Section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, in a review petition, the petitioners cannot succeed. However, it is my view that the judgment sought to be reviewed, would not stand in the way of the first respondent in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 298 of 2018 from taking action on Ext. P-1, complaint in accordance with law and subject to first respondent obtaining previous approval under Section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act." 6.	Dr. Misra has further submitted that unless and until the previous approval from competent authority is received to make investigation against the present petitioner in view of Section 17-A of P.C. Act, the police authorities may be restrained to conduct investigation against the petitioner pursuant to the impugned FIR and the operation and implementation of the impugned FIR may be stayed so far as the present petitioner is concerned. 7.	Dr. L.P. Misra has also submitted that for the alleged incident of the month of February, 2022, thereafter of the month of April, 2022, the FIR has been lodged on 29.10.2022. In the said FIR, no specific date of incident has been indicated for the allegation relating to the month of February, 2022. Further, the allegations so levelled in the FIR are highly improbable inasmuch as when the complainant was allegedly instructed to deposit a sum of Rs.63 lakh in one International Business Firm account at Alwar, Rajasthan, as to why he had deposited a sum of more than Rs.74 lakh approx. 8.	Dr. Misra has also vehemently submitted that during investigation the investigating agency has added Sections 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 120-B of IPC, besides earlier Sections 342 , 386 , 504 , 506 IPC and Section 7 of the P.C. Act to subvert the procedure established by the law, however, ingredients of all aforesaid sections do not attract in the present F.I.R, therefore, the impugned F.I.R. may be quashed both on merits as well as the same is violative of Section 17-A of the P.C. Act. 9.	Sri I.B. Singh, learned Senior Advocate, appearing for opposite party no.5 has raised an objection regarding maintainability and scope of the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India referring the decision of the Apex Court in re; M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. vs. State of Maharashtra and Others , AIR 2021 Supreme Court 1918. Sri I.B. has referred paras 7.3, 15 & 16 of the aforesaid judgement, which are being reproduced herein-below:- 10.	On the basis of aforesaid observation of the Hon'ble Apex Court in re; M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra), Sri I.B. Singh has submitted that the allegations so levelled against the petitioner in the FIR disclose commission of cognizable offence, therefore, the FIR in question may not be quashed. Since the FIR may not be quashed, therefore, no interim protection can be granted to the petitioner. Further, there is a statutory prescription under Section 438 Cr.P.C. to file anticipatory bail application, therefore, extra-ordinary jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India may not be invoked. 11.	Replying the aforesaid contention of Sri I.B. Singh, learned Senior Advocate, Dr. Misra has submitted that since the impugned FIR is illegal as the same could have not been lodged in view of the specific bar of Section 17-A of the P.C. Act, therefore, the impugned FIR is liable to be quashed. Hence, the dictum of Hon'ble Apex Court in re; M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra) would not be applicable in the present case. 12.	On that, Sri I.B. Singh has placed reliance upon the decision of Kerala High Court in re; Shankara Bhat and Ors. Vs. State of Kerala and Ors. , reported in MANU/KE/2227/2021, whereby applicability of Section 17-A of P.C. Act has been examined and the Kerala High Court in paras 13, 25 & 26 of the said judgment has observed as under:- "13. In the back ground of the law laid down in that context, the contention, whether prior approval as contemplated under section 17A introduced by 2018 Amendment to the Prevention of Corruption Act is required in respect of every act which form subject matter of prosecution has to be considered. In this context, it is essential to refer to the exact words Crl.M.C Nos.7542/2018 & others 17 employed by the statute which reads as follows; Under section 17A , which was inserted by Act 16 of 2018, and which came into force with effect from 26/7/2018, the previous approval by the concerned authorities is essential. The crucial question that arises for consideration in these proceedings is whether previous approval from the competent authority need to be obtained for every enquiry, inquiry or investigation, into every offence committed by the public servant. The crux of the issue is whether the above provision is an omnibus, all pervasive pre requisite for every enquiry or inquiry or investigation into every act done by the public servant in discharge of his official functions. 13.	The aforesaid judgment has been challenged before the Apex Court by filing Petition(s) for Special Leave to appeal (Crl.) No(s).9341/2021, Manoj. K.M vs. State of Kerala & Anr. and the said Special Leave to Appeal was dismissed by the Apex Court vide order dated 10.12.2021 by the following order:- 14.	Therefore, on the basis of aforesaid judgment, Sri I.B. Singh has submitted that the argument of Dr. Misra regarding 17- A of the P.C. Act Act may not be applicable in the present case. 15.	Sri Jaideep Narain Mathur, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the State-respondents has submitted that bare perusal of the allegations of the FIR clearly reveals that the present petitioner has committed offence under Sections 342 , 386 , 504 & 506 IPC as well as Section 7 of the P.C. Act. Sri Mathur has also drawn attention of this Court towards para 15 of the counter affidavit of the State wherein it has been categorically indicated that on the basis of evidence collected so far, offence under Sections 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 120-B of IPC has been added and at present, investigation is under progress for the offences under Sections 342 , 386 , 504 , 506 , 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B of IPC and Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. 16.	Sri Mathur has further submitted that the instant FIR is consisting three incidents. First incident is relating to the month of February, 2022 when the present petitioner compelled the informant to provide 15% commission for the payments of work done by his Company, thereby providing the mobile number of the co-accused Ajay Mishra. The informant under compelling circumstances paid 15% commission to the petitioner through co-accused Ajay Mishra. Second incident is relating to the month of April, 2022 when the informant has been forced to pay 15% commission of his remaining payment and he paid such commission through cash and through e-banking in the account of one International Business Firm at Alwar, Rajasthan. Third incident is dated 01.09.2022 when the complainant/ informant paid commission to the tune of Rs.15,55,000/- to the petitioner through co-accused Ajay Mishra regarding his another payment for the work done by his Company. The informant has indicated not only the dates of such payments but also indicated the amount which is Rs.1,41,00,000/- in all the aforesaid incidents. Sri Mathur has also submitted that when advance commission was demanded from the informant and he could not pay the same, the work assigned to his Company has been stopped by the petitioner and given to the Company of co-accused Ajay Mishra, as has been clearly indicated in the FIR. 17.	Sri Mathur has apprised the Court that looking to the gravity and seriousness of the allegations, the investigation has been handed over to the Special Task Force, U.P. Some senior officers/officials of Special Task Force are present in the Court to assist Sri Mathur so that proper informations could be provided to the Court. On the basis of instructions so received from those officers, Sri Mathur has apprised the Court that during the period which has been referred in the FIR, the petitioner has called the co-accused so many times and co-accused has also called the petitioner couple of times. He has also apprised that the informant/ complainant was having no business relations of any kind whatsoever with the Company in the name of International Business Firm, Alwar, Rajasthan and transaction so made with such Firm by the informant/ complainant on 29.04.2022 was the single transaction whereas co-accused Ajay Mishra is having business relation with such Firm at Alwar, Rajasthan and there are couple of transactions of co-accused Ajay Mishra with such Firm. On the basis of aforesaid submission, Sri Mathur has submitted that this may not be a case that the informant/complainant is having any business relation with the Company at Alwar, Rajasthan but he deposited a sum of Rs.74 lakh approx, to be more precise Rs.51,62,500/-, Rs.11,80,000/- & Rs.10,98,875/- through RTGS at the behest of the petitioner and co-accused Ajay Mishra. Therefore, as per Sri Mathur, some more sections have been added by the investigating agency against the accused persons. 18.	So far as contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner regarding bar to investigate the issue in terms of Section 17-A of P.C. Act is concerned, Sri Mathur has submitted that Section 17-A of P.C. Act clearly mandates that said bar would be applicable only where the alleged offence is relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by such public servant in discharge of his official functions or duties. In the present case, extorting money taking undue advantage of his position from the informant may not be considered the act which has been done in discharge of his official duties or function. He has further submitted that since the petitioner is presently serving on the post of Vice Chancellor and has committed offence taking undue advantage of his position, therefore, FIR under Section 7 of P.C. Act besides other sections of IPC has been lodged but the alleged offence is not relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by the petitioner in discharge of his official function or duties, therefore, bar of Section 17-A of P.C. Act would not be applicable in the present case. Even otherwise this aspect may be looked into at the time of taking cognizance of the offence under Section 19 of the P.C. Act. 19. 	Sri Mathur has, therefore, submitted that for getting benefit of Section 17-A of the P.C. Act in the light of the dictum of Apex Court in re; Yashwant Sinha (supra), the offence in question must be relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by the petitioner in discharge of his official functions or duties but alleged offence of the petitioner committing forgery, fraud, criminal breach of trust, forgery of a valuable security etc., extorting money and criminal intimidation etc. having criminal conspiracy with other accused person misusing the position as Vice Chancellor may not come within the four corners of Section 17-A of the P.C. Act, so he is not entitled to get benefit of the judgment of the Apex Court in re; Yashwant Sinha (supra). 20.	Sri Mathur has also placed reliance upon the dictum of the Apex Court in re; M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra) referring those paragraphs, which have been cited by Sri I.B. Singh, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the complainant/ opposite party no.5. 21.	So as to demonstrate the test as to whether the act was done in discharge of official duty, Sri Mathur has placed reliance upon the dictum of Privy Council in re; H.H.B. Gill and another v. The King , AIR (35) 1948 Privy Council 128, referring relevant portion of para-30 thereof, which reads as under:- 22.	Sri Mathur has submitted that the aforesaid observation of Privy Council has been followed by the Apex Court time and again in various judgments. 23.	Sri Mathur has placed reliance of paras 149 & 152 of Full Bench judgment of this Court in re; Smt. Neera Yadav vs. C.B.I. (Bharat Sangh ), [(2006) 1 UPLBEC 601], which read as under:- 24.	Sri Mathur has submitted that even if the allegation of the petitioner is that he has been falsely implicated so as to tarnish his reputation and allegations so levelled against him in the FIR do not corroborate with the material available on record, then this is a fit case to file anticipatory bail application under Section 438 Cr.P.C. and in such circumstances, where the petitioner has got alternative statutory remedy, the extra-ordinary jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India may not be invoked. Therefore, as per Sri Mathur, the present petition may be dismissed. 25.	Sri Mathur has also submitted that the investigating agency is well aware that the petitioner is a reputed person serving as Vice Chancellor, Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj University, Kanpur and has been serving on such position w.e.f. 2009 till date at various Universities, recital to this effect has been given in para-10 of the writ petition, therefore, there may not be any question of his harassment, however, his proper cooperation would be required in the present case as the issue is so serious. 26.	On that, Dr. Misra has submitted placing reliance upon paras-81, 111 & 112 of the judgment in re; Yashwant Sinha (supra) that before registration of an FIR, preliminary inquiry is must in the cases involving allegation of corruption by a public servant. Paras- 81, 111 & 112 of the aforesaid case are being reproduced herein-below:- The aforesaid are only illustrations and not exhaustive of all conditions which may warrant preliminary inquiry. 120.7. xxx
 
120.8. xxx" (emphasis supplied) 112. In Lalita Kumari [Lalita Kumari v. State of U.P. , (2014) 2 SCC 1 : (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 524] , one of the contentions which was pressed before the Court was that in certain situations, preliminary inquiry is necessary. In this regard, attention of the Court was drawn to CBI Crime Manual. The following paragraphs of Lalita Kumari [Lalita Kumari v. State of U.P. , (2014) 2 SCC 1 : (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 524] may be noticed, which read as follows : (SCC pp. 50-51, paras 89-92)
 

 
"89. Besides, the learned Senior Counsel relied on the special procedures prescribed under the CBI Manual to be read into Section 154. It is true that the concept of "preliminary inquiry" is contained in Chapter IX of the Crime Manual of CBI. However, this Crime Manual is not a statute and has not been enacted by the legislature. It is a set of administrative orders issued for internal guidance of the CBI officers. It cannot supersede the Code. Moreover, in the absence of any indication to the contrary in the Code itself, the provisions of the CBI Crime Manual cannot be relied upon to import the concept of holding of preliminary inquiry in the scheme of the Code of Criminal Procedure . At this juncture, it is also pertinent to submit that CBI is constituted under a special Act, namely, the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 and it derives its power to investigate from this Act. 90. It may be submitted that Sections 4(2) and 5 of the Code permit special procedures to be followed for special Acts. Section 4 of the Code lays down as under: 91. Moreover, Section 5 of the Code lays down as under: 92. In view of the above specific provisions in the Code, the powers of CBI under the DSPE Act , cannot be equated with the powers of the regular State Police under the Code." 27.	While citing paras-107 & 108 of the dictum of the Constitution Bench of the Apex Court in re; Lalita Kumari v. Government of Uttar Pradesh , (2014) 2 SCC 1, Dr. Misra has submitted that if registration of FIR is mandatory, arrest of the accused immediately after registration of the FIR is not at all mandatory. Paras-107 & 108 of the aforesaid judgment are as under:- (emphasis supplied) 28.	Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material available on record. 29.	At the very outset, we would like to deal the issue of maintainability of the writ petition in the light of dictum of the Apex Court in re; M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra) as such objection has been raised by Sri I.B. Singh, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the complainant/ opposite party no.5 as well as Sri Jaideep Narain Mathur, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the State-respondents. 30.	In view of para 7.3. (102.1, 102.2 & 102.3) of the aforesaid judgement, it may not be observed, keeping in view the contention of Sri Mathur on the basis of specific instructions so received from the Officers of Investigating Agency, that the allegations of the FIR do not disclose a cognizable offence. Besides, in view of paras- 15 & 16 of the aforesaid judgment, no extreme exception has been carved out by the learned counsel for the petitioner to interfere in the FIR under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Prima facie, the allegations of the FIR and material and evidences, which are said to have been gathered during investigation as per prosecution, constitute the cognizable offences, therefore, such FIR may not be quashed, hence no interim order can be granted in a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. At the same time, it is also undisputed that provision of Section 438 Cr.P.C. is in existence in the State of U.P., so if the allegation of the learned counsel for the petitioner is considered to the effect that the impugned FIR has been lodged without having any cogent and relevant material with the prosecution to tarnish the reputation of the petitioner, who is discharging the functions of Vice Chancellor of one University and has been Vice Chancellor of various Universities since 2009, the appropriate remedy would be to file an appropriate application for anticipatory bail under Section 438 Cr.P.C. instead of filing writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India inasmuch as the alternative statutory remedy may not ordinarily be circumvented unless there is any exceptional circumstances to interfere in such FIR. 31.	Therefore, in view of the above, considering the dictum of the Hon'ble Apex Court in re; M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra), we are not inclined to quash the impugned FIR; so, we cannot pass any interim order in the present case. 32.	So far as arguments of Dr. Misra regarding conducting preliminary inquiry prior to lodging the FIR in view of the dictum of the Apex Court in re; Lalita Kumari (supra) is concerned, we are of the considered opinion that in para 120.5, the Apex Court has clearly opined that the preliminary inquiry would only be required only to ascertain whether the information reveals any cognizable offence. In the present case, the allegations of the FIR as well as the material/ evidences which are said to have been gathered during investigation, prima facie, reveal cognizable offences subject to outcome of the investigation. Further, para-120.6 of the aforesaid judgment indicates category of the cases/ offences in which preliminary inquiry may be made, wherein clause (d) mentions ''corruption cases' but in such para, the Hon'ble Apex Court has observed categorically that the aforesaid are only illustrations and not exhaustive of all conditions which may warrant preliminary inquiry. Meaning thereby, the category so described from (a) to (e) in para 120.6 in re; Lalita Kumari (supra), as per the Apex Court, are only illustrations and not exhaustive warranting preliminary inquiry as the direction for preliminary inquiry depends upon the facts and circumstances of the issue in question, therefore, if the information received by the prosecution reveals any cognizable offence and that information is, prima facie, definite, the preliminary inquiry may not be warranted in such cases. Besides, the case dealt by the Apex Court in re; Lalita Kumari (supra) was relating to the C.B.I. investigation and undisputedly the concept of "Preliminary Inquiry" is contained in Chapter IX of the Crime Manual of C.B.I. whereas no such prescription is provided under any Crime Manual of Cr.P.C . or under any manual being dealt by the investigating agency of the present case i.e. Special Task Force. This aspect regarding special proceeding of preliminary inquiry prescribed under C.B.I. Manual has been considered under Para 89 of Lalita Kumari (supra). 33.	Further, the Full Bench of this Court in re; Smt. Neera Yadav (supra) has held in para 152 (III) that the offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act as well as charge of criminal conspiracy, cannot be said to constitute "acts in discharge of official duty." 34.	So far as arguments of Dr. Misra regarding the provision of Section 17-A of P.C. Act is concerned, we are of the considered opinion that so as to get the benefit of the P.C. Act , the offence in question must be relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by a public servant in discharge of his official functions or duties. However, we leave it open for the petitioner to take this plea before the investigating agency or before the competent court of law, as the case may be and such agency or court may take appropriate decision, as per law, as to whether this aspect should be considered in the light of Section 17-A or 19 of the P.C. Act . 35.	The Privy Council in H.H.B. Gill (supra) has rightly observed that a Judge neither acts nor purport to act as a Judge in receiving a bribe, though the judgment which he delivers may be such an act: likewise the act of a Government medical officer in picking the pocket of a patient to whom he is examining may not be said to an act in discharge of his official duties as a public servant though the examination itself may be such an act. Therefore, if the aforesaid test is applied in the present case, the alleged act of the petitioner committing forgery, fraud, criminal breach of trust, criminal intimidation, forgery of valuable security etc., wrongful confinement, extorting money etc. having criminal conspiracy with other accused persons misusing his position as Vice Chancellor may not be said to an act or purported to act in discharge of his official duty as it is not relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by him in discharge of his official functions or duties though directing for payment of the informant for the work done by his Firm may be such an act. Hence, in view of the above, the present petitioner may not get the benefit of Section 17-A of the P.C. Act in the light of the judgment of the Apex Court in re; Yashwant Sinha (supra). The facts and circumstances of the present case are different from the facts and circumstances of the judgment in re; Yashwant Sinha (supra). However, we have great respect towards the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in re; Yashwant Sinha (supra), but it is a trite law of the Apex Court that unless and until the facts and circumstances of the case in hand are identically the same with the case of the Apex Court so cited, that would not be applicable. 36.	So far as paras 107 & 108 of the case in re; Lalita Kumari (supra) are concerned wherein it has been observed by the Apex Court that if registration of FIR is mandatory, arrest of the accused immediately after registration of FIR is not at all mandatory, we are of the considered opinion that the trite law of the Apex Court is binding upon every concerned as law of the Hon'ble Supreme Court is the law of land. Notably, the petitioner is not having any prior criminal history and keeping in a view the fair stand of the State-respondent that the proper co-operation of the petitioner is very much required in this serious issue, we think it proper to observe that a proper recourse, as per law, should be adopted by the investigating agency. 37.	So far as submission of Dr. L.P. Misra regarding added sections during investigation to subvert the procedure established by the law is concerned, we are of the opinion that since those sections are said to have been added after collecting the relevant material/evidences and the investigation is still in progress, therefore, we cannot accept the aforesaid submission of Dr. L.P. Misra. However, we legitimately expect that the Investigating Officer shall conduct and conclude the investigation strictly in accordance with law and also in the light of settled proposition of law of the Apex Court from Joginder Kumar (supra), Lalita Kumari (supra) till Satender Kumar Antil vs. CBI and others , Special Leave to Appeal (Criminal) No.5191 of 2021 as it is needless to say that all concerned are duty bound to follow the directions and guidelines of the Apex Court issued from time to time in catena of cases. 38.	Before parting with, we make it clear that since we are not entertaining this petition, in the light of the dictum of the Apex Court in re; M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra), for the reason that bare perusal of the allegations of the FIR and the material/evidences which are said to have been collected during investigation, as recital to this effect has been made in the counter affidavit of the State, disclose, prima facie, commission of cognizable offences subject to final outcome of the investigation, therefore, our aforesaid observations may not be taken adversely against the present petitioner nor it may be treated as protection to the petitioner in any manner whatsoever. The investigating agency or any competent court below should not be influenced from the aforesaid observations of this judgment. The fair and impartial investigation is a bare minimum expectation of this Court and it is also expected from all concerned that the settled proposition of law is followed. 39.	In view of what has been considered above, we hereby dismiss this writ petition. 40.	However, it is always open for the petitioner to take appropriate legal recourse by filing his appropriate applications under Section 438 Cr.P.C. or any other application before the competent court of law and if any appropriate application is filed before the learned court below by the petitioner, the same shall be considered and disposed of with expedition, without giving any unnecessary adjournment to any of the parties. 41.	No order as to cost.