The plaintiff has come in this appeal by assailing the judgment

and decree dated 2.12.1988 passed by the learned first appellate court vide

which the appeal was accepted and the suit filed by the plaintiff-appellant

was dismissed by holding that the adoption of defendant Bhim Singh by

Mam Raj son of Gangal is valid, therefore, defendant Bhim Singh stepped

into his shoes and had inherited the property in dispute. The facts necessary for disposal of the appeal are that Gangal

son of Bhagirath was the erstwhile owner of the property in dispute situated

in the revenue estate of village Durgapur, District Faridabad. After his

death, his inheritance devolved upon his sons namely Kour, Mam Raj,,

Ghoor Mal @ Ghuri and Mohar Ram (plaintiff-appellant) in equal shares.

Thus, Mam Raj became co-sharer to the extent of ¼ share. Defendant Bhim

 1 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:22 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 2 Singh is the son of Ghoor Mal. Thus, he is the real nephew of Mam Raj. Said Mam Raj was initially married to Smt.Chirongi but she

had died issueless somewhere in the year 1966. Mam Raj had died on

26.10.1981. His inheritance was mutated vide mutation No.674 in the name

of Bhim Singh on the basis of registered adoption deed dated 14.9.1979

(Ex.D2) as well as registered will (Ex.D1) which is also of the same date. The instant suit has been filed by Mohar Ram, a real brother of

deceased Mam Raj. It is his case that Mam Raj had died issue less,

therefore, he being the real brother succeeded his inheritance along with his

brothers Kour, Ghoor Mal @ Ghoori (both proforma defendants). It has

been specifically averred in the plaint that parties are 'Bairagi' by caste and

they mainly depend upon the agriculture for their livelihood and that the

property in the hands of Mam Raj was ancestral. It is also alleged that since the suit land was ancestral,

therefore, aforesaid Mam Raj was not lawfully competent to alienate or

dispose of the same in favour of defendant Bhim Singh and that the

alienation of suit property was without legal necessity and also against the

order of succession. According to the plaintiff, after the death of Mam Raj,

all his living brothers namely Mohar Ram plaintiff, Kour, Ghoor Mal had

inherited the suit property in equal shares but defendant Bhim Singh with

the assistance of his father and mother had got executed a will as well as the

adoption deed from said Mam Raj deceased on or about 14.9.1979 and

created a false and untrue claim and that the said documents are false,

fictitious and forged. It has also been pleaded by plaintiff that Mam Raj did not

having disposing mind on account of his old age, illiteracy and illness, as

 2 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 3 such, the defendants seemed to have succeeded to obtain his thumb

impressions on the aforesaid documents i.e. will and adoption deed by

exercising undue influence over Mam Raj. According to the plaintiff, no

ceremony of alleged adoption had taken place at any time and even the

aforesaid documents were not witnessed by any witness from village

Durgapur, as such, both the documents Ex.D1 and Ex.D2 are forged

documents and not binding upon his rights and that these documents had not

seen the light of the day till 1982 when the impugned will was got produced

before village Patwari. It is further alleged that Assistant Collector, 1st Grade has

wrongly sanctioned mutation of inheritance of Mam Raj (bearing No.674 on

6.9.1993) in favour of Bhim Singh defendant and the same is liable to be set

aside. The suit has been contested, inter alia, that no cause of action

accrued in favour of the plaintiff to file the suit and the suit is not

maintainable in the present form. However, the relationship between the

parties and that of Mam Raj is admitted. It is denied that the land in the

hands of Mam Raj was ancestral. It is admitted that the parties to the appeal

are governed by agriculture custom as prevalent in the State of Punjab prior

to 1956 and that deceased Mam Raj had adopted defendant Bhim Singh in

accordance with law; that Mam Raj was a adult Hindu, his wife had pre-

deceased him, therefore, he was competent to take Bhim Singh in adoption

and Bhim Singh was also competent to be adopted; that the ceremony of

giving and taking in adoption were took place between Mam Raj and

natural parents of defendant Bhim Singh which were attended and

witnessed by the several persons of the village and by other relatives of the

 3 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 4 parties. It is denied that any fraud or impersonation was played upon Mam

Raj. It is also asserted that Mam Raj has validly executed will as well as

adoption deed 14.9.1979. The registered adoption deed Ex.D2 was duly

thumb marked by natural father and mother of Bhim Singh and thus,

defendant Bhim Singh became the adopted son of late Mam Raj. After his

death, he inherited his property. According to defendant Bhim Singh, the

parties are governed by custom in the matter of adoption and the adoption

was fully legal and valid. It has been denied if deceased Mam Raj was not

of sound disposing mind or that if the above said documents are in any way

forged or fabricated, rather those are fully legal and valid. From the pleadings of the parties, the following issues were

framed : - 4 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 5 10. Relief. Learned trial court afforded adequate opportunities to both the

parties to adduce evidence. On appreciation of evidence, it was held that it

was not a valid adoption as the age of Bhim Singh was more than 15 years

of age and that adoption was in violation of the provisions of Section 4 and 10 of Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956 (in short, "the Act"). It

was held on issue No.4 that the suit property was ancestral in the hands of

Mam Raj. On issues No.1 to 3, it was held that will was surrounded by

suspicious circumstances and the adoption was not valid, as such, issues

No.1 to 7 were decided in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendants.

However, issue No.8 with regard to mental capacity of Mam Raj was

decided against the plaintiff and in favour of the defendant. Issue No.9 was

also decided against the defendant and in favour of the plaintiff. As a result,

the suit was dismissed. On appeal, learned first appellate court held that the adoption of

Bhim Singh defendant by Mam Raj deceased was valid, parties were

governed by custom vide which a person above 15 years of age and even

married person can be adopted. Thus, being adopted son, Bhim Singh

defendant had inherited the suit land. However, the issue with regard to the

will was kept open. Consequently, the appeal was accepted and the

judgment and decree of the learned trial Court was set aside and the suit of

the plaintiff was dismissed. This Court has heard at length learned counsel for the parties

and examined the evidence on the record. Learned counsel for the appellant have vehemently contended

 5 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 6 that the learned first appellate court wrongly upset the well reasoned

judgment of the learned trial court; that learned appellate court failed to

properly appreciate the evidence on record; that Bhim Singh defendant was

above 15 years of age and was married at the time of adoption, therefore, he

could not be validly adopted under the provisions of Section 10 of Hindu

Adoption and Maintenance Act (in short, "the Act"); that customary law has

been abrogated in view of Section 4 of the Act, therefore, the impugned

judgment of the first appellate court is completely contrary to law and facts

and liable to be reversed. In support of his contentions, he placed reliance

upon the precedents in cases Madan Lal v. Vinod Kumar and others , 2008

(4) MPHT 418; Kartar Singh (Minor) through Guardian Bachan Singh v.

Surjan Singh (Dead) and others, 1975 HLR 78; Mahalingam v. Kannayyan

and another ; 1989 MLJR 341; Marimuthu v. Pichai Ammal and others ;

2010 GMLJ 391; Dhanraj Jain v. Smt. Suraj Bai ; AIR 1973 (Raj) 7; Smt.

Dhanno and others v. Tuhi Ram (Died) and others ; AIR 1996 (P&H) 203; Pritam Singh v. The Assistant Controller of Estate Duty, Patiala 1976 CLJ

(Civil) 193. On the other hand, learned counsel for defendant Bhim Singh

have strenuously contended that it is admitted case of both the parties that

the parties are governed by custom in the field of succession and adoption;

that as per the general custom prevalent in the State of Punjab and Haryana,

age and martial status is no bar to a valid adoption; that the Bairagi

community is also governed by customary law of Punjab and under a

general customary rule, a person who is married and above than 15 years of

age can be validly adopted; that apart from it, the adoption was made when

Bhim Singh was only of about 10 years of age, however, adoption deed

 6 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 7 Ex.D2 could be executed on 14.9.1979 as a memorandum of adoption,

therefore, the adoption of Bhim Singh in the age of 10 years is fully legal

and valid in accordance with the provisions of the Act; that Bhim Singh

defendant inherited the estate of deceased Mam Raj being the adopted son;

According to him, the will has also been duly proved. He endorsed the

findings of the learned first appellate court and urges for dismissal of the

appeal with exemplary costs. In support of his contentions, he placed

reliance upon the precedents in cases Mohinder Singh and another v.

Gurbax Singh ; (2004-3) PLR 154; Amar Singh v. Tej Ram ; 1982 PLR 237;

Basdeo Bhardwaj v. Ram Sarup and others; 1968 PLR 535; Senthilkumar v.

Dhandapani and others ; 2005 (2) RCR (Civil) 165. This Court has given its thoughtful consideration to the rival

contentions and critically examined the evidence on record. In this case, the

following substantial questions of law have arisen for determination : It has been vehemently argued on behalf of defendant Bhim

Singh that his adoption is valid under the provisions of the Act and also

under the customary law of Punjab which is applicable to the State of

Haryana as the same was also part of erstwhile State of Punjab before

coming into force the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 . Learned first

 7 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 8 appellate court has given categoric finding that adoption of defendant Bhim

Singh was fully legal and valid under the customs of Punjab. As such, this

Court would like to discuss firstly the validity of the adoption in question

under the customary law of Punjab. The customary law of erstwhile Punjab (which was applicable

before coming into force the Act) has a unique identification because it was

applicable to both Hindu and Mohamdan agriculturists. It was applicable

not only to the Jat agriculturists but other communities also and even on

non-agriculturist classes irrespective of their personal laws. Custom in

Punjab is more local than tribal, though it may be both. Sir William Henry Rattigan had collected and compiled the

customs prevalent in the province of erstwhile Punjab in nineteenth century.

His book was published in the year 1880 under the title Customary Law

which is a monumental classic par excellence. Ever since the publication of

the first edition of the book in 1880, it has been regarded as the locus

classicus on the subject and has been of the greatest assistance to Judges

and lawyers alike. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case Daya Singh v.

Dhan Kaur , AIR 1974 SC 665 described it as a "book of unquestioned

authority in the Punjab." Sir W.H. Rattigan while writing preface to the first edition has

categorically recorded as under : - 8 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 9 population was tenaciously attached, or where divergencies

 occurred, and how far they were peculiar to particular tribes or

 localities. It had long been left by those best acquainted with

 the habits and customs of the rural population that neither the

 Shara nor the Shastras really exercised any direct influence

 among them in regard to such matters, and it was also known

 that the Hindu and Muhammadan, though differing in religion,

 were often united together in the village community, as it was

 natural they should be, by the same common rules regulating

 the devolution and disposal of property which, in theory and

 frequently in practice, was recognised as involving a

 community of interest." The Punjab customary rules were never treated derogatory or

inconsistent to ancient Hindu law. The customs and usages are always

considered an important source of Hindu Law and those have been

recognized by the Hindu community of this region. It may be due to

geographical reasons which brought change in the social strata of the

province. Sir Dinshaw Fardunji Mulla in his famous treatise-Hindu Law

(Eighteenth Edition) in para 515-B has specifically discussed the customary

adoption in Punjab. According to it, "a customary adoption in Punjab is

ordinarily no more than a mere appointment of an heir creating a personal

relationship between the adoptive father and the appointed heir only. There

is no tie of kinship between the appointed heir and the collaterals of the

adoptive father. The incidents of an informal adoption of the above type as

well as those of a formal customary adoption were examined by Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Kehar Singh v. Diwan Singh, AIR 1966 SC 1555." 9 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 10 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kartar Singh v. Surjan Singh , 1975 HLR 78

made following observations with regard to the customary law : - Our Constitution, under Article 13 , while defining the

expression "law", recognises those customs or usages having in the territory

 10 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 11 of India the force of law. Numerous special statutes also encourage customs

subject to the condition that those are not derogatory to the basic provisions

thereof and which owing to its prolonged use, has obtained the force of law. The Custom is a rule, which is in practice in a particular

community or class, a particular family, or in a particular area. Section 3(a) of the Act 1956 defines 'custom' as follows : This Section provides that in order to apply a custom, it is pre-

requisite that the same must be ancient, certain and reasonable and being in

derogation of the general rules of law, must be construed strictly. It is

further essential that it should be established to be so, by clear and

unambiguous evidence, for it is only by means of such evidence that the

courts can be assured of its existence and of the fact that it possesses the

conditions of antiquity and certainty on which alone its legal title to

recognition depends. For a valid custom having force of law, it is necessary

that the same must not be opposed to morality or public policy, and it must

not be expressly forbidden by the legislature. The customs may be classified into two categories i.e. general

and special. A general custom includes a custom common to any

 11 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 12 considerable class of persons or applicable in a particular area or province.

A custom which is applicable to a locality, tribe, sect or a family is called a

special custom. Some agricultural tribes in certain places have been found to be

governed by a special custom under which adoption does not amount to

mere appointment of an heir, but has attached to it all the consequences

which flow from a full and formal adoption of Hindu Law. Where such a

special custom is found to exist, it is not necessary for the adoption that it

should have taken place in conformity with the rules of Hindu Law in the

matter of ritual or otherwise, because in such cases, it is not the rule of

Hindu Law which operates to attach such consequences to the adoption, but

it is the custom governing the adoption, that does so, and therefore in order

to attract all such consequences it is quite enough if the adoption conforms

to that custom in the matter of form etc.

 Such an adoption effects a complete transplantation of the

adoptee from one family to the other and confers the right of collateral

succession in the adoptive family and takes away the right of such

succession in the natural family. In the case of such adoption the property

devolving on the adopted son continues to be ancestral in his hands. Custom has the effect of altering general personal law to some

extent, but it does not override statutory law, unless the custom is expressly

saved by it. It is well settled that a custom cannot be extended by analogy or

logical process and it also cannot be established by hypothesis. The

principle that he who relies upon custom modifying general law, must plead

and prove it. A custom must be established by clear and unambiguous

evidence, albeit, when a custom has been judicially recognised by the

 12 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 13 Courts, it passes into the law of the land and proof of it becomes

unnecessary under Section 57(1) of the Evidence Act, 1872. In Dr. Surajmani Stella Kujur v. Durga Charan Hansdah ,

2001(1) R.C.R.(Civil) 766 SC, Hon'ble Supreme Court held that custom,

being in derogation of a general rule, is required to be construed strictly. In Bhimashya & Ors. v. Smt. Janabi @ Janawwa , 2007(3)

R.C.R.(Civil) 534 SC it was held : 13 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 14 man that it will never become a custom." In the modern era of codification, the customs play minimum

role in the matter of adoption unless it has been specifically so provided. The Act has provided detailed procedure, qualifications and other requisite

conditions of adoption. Section 4 gives overriding application to the

provisions of the Act and in fact, lays down that in respect of any matters

dealt with, the Act, it seeks to repeal all existing laws, customs or usages,

whether in the shape of enactment or otherwise which are inconsistent with

this Act. Section 5 of the Act, in terms states that no adoption shall be

made after commencement of the Act or to a Hindu except in accordance

with the provisions in Chapter II of the Act . This Section specifically

provides that any adoption made in contravention of the said provisions

shall be void and a void adoption neither create any right in favour of any

person which he or she could not have acquired except by reason of the

adoption, nor destroy the rights of any person in the family of his or her

birth. However, section 10 of the Act prescribes four conditions for a

valid adoption of a person : - 14 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 15 who have completed the age of fifteen years being taken in

 adoption. Section 10 , overrides all texts, rules or interpretations of Hindu

law and all customs and usages as part of that law in force immediately

before the coming into operation of the said Act. The intention of legislature

in making exceptions in the case of custom and usage relating to the marital

status and age of the person to be taken in adoption was to preserve any

custom or usage contrary to the conditions prescribed by Clauses (iii) and (iv) of the said Section 10 intact provided it was applicable to the parties

concerned and was in force prior to the date of the coming into force of the

said Act, namely, prior to December 21, 1956. In the present case, there is no dispute in respect of the first two

conditions laid down under Section 10 of the Act. However, the conditions (iii) and (iv) prescribe that a person to be adopted should not be a married

one and must not have completed the age of 15 years unless there is a

custom or usage applicable to the parties permitting such adoptions. It is,

therefore, clear that the first two conditions accept no exceptions, while the

subsequent conditions are subject to a contrary rule prevalent in the

community by reason of a custom or usage. It is on the basis of this

exception to conditions (iii) and (iv) that the plaintiff claims a valid and

legal adoption inasmuch as, he had crossed the maximum age of 15 years

and was also married at the time of this adoption. In the case in hand, defendant Bhim Singh claims that his

family forms a compact agriculture community and adhere to customary law

of Punjab. As per the general custom applicable in Punjab and also

applicable on his community, the age and marital status is no bar with

 15 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 16 regard to adoption. Now the question arises what criterion to determine whether

parties (member of agriculture tribe or community) are governed by

agriculture custom or personal law. This fact is mentioned by Sir William

Henry Rattigan in his treatise on Customary Law, (16th Edition) at page 23

as under : - On the bare perusal of the above quoted test, it is essential that

parties must be dependent on agriculture to form a compact village

community or at least a compact section of the village community. Plaintiff

has admitted this fact and it is specifically pleaded in para 4 of the plaint. 16 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 17 This Court would like to reproduce the same hereunder : - Defendant Bhim Singh in his written statement had a taken a

specific plea that the parties were governed by customary law and said Mam

Raj was competent to take Bhim Singh in adoption in accordance with the

custom. This plea was never controverted. Surprisingly, while appearing as

his own witness, plaintiff Mohar Ram failed to utter a single word regarding

the adoption even he had not stated with regard to nature of land, albeit, he

is bound by his pleadings. Under general customs of Punjab, as laid down in para 36 of

Rattigan's Digest on Customary Law, there is no bar with regard to age and

marital status of the adopted child. This relates to the general custom. This

para of Rattigan's Digest reads as under : - 17 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 18 Although, as stated in para. 36 of the Digest, the general

 rule as regards age (of the adoptee) is that it is not material, if

 the adoption is otherwise proper and valid, it has been held that

 by custom among Sainis of Pathankote Tehsil, only a person

 who was below seven years of age or in any case had not yet

 attained the age of puberty, could be validly adopted, (1934)

 155 Ind Cas 1020. Generally speaking, however, under the

 Punjab Customary Law, the age at which the adoption takes

 place is immaterial; 44 PR 1913. Thus, the Privy Council

 upheld, as valid under custom, the adoption of an orphan, who

 was 19 years of age at the time of his adoption, among Hindu

 Jats of Ballabgarh, (formerly in the Delhi District); (1935) 57

 All 494 PC affirming (1929) 118 Ind Cas 154 All. It has to be noted that the age and martial status of an adoptee

under the customary law has also been protected by the Act under

conditions (iii) and (iv) of Section 10 (ibid) subject to the applicability of

custom or usage. Thus, under the customary law of Punjab as admitted by

the parties, the custom was fully legal and valid. This Court in Amar Singh v. Tej Ram (supra) had discussed a

similar question of law and fact which relates to adoption of a male who

was married and was more than 15 years of age, it was held that the

customary law of Punjab permits such an adoption. That was also a case of

district Karnal (Haryana). This Court would like to reproduce para 13 of this

precedent hereunder : - Admittedly, the parties are Jats. It is well-recognised that the

 Jats in the State of Haryana, which was earlier a part of the

 erstwhile State of Punjab, are governed by customary law. In

 para 36 of Rattigan's Digest of Customary Law in the Punjab it

 is clearly stated that there are no restrictions are regard the age

 or the degree of relationship of the person to be adopted. It is

 also well-settled that a married man having children can be

 adopted under custom. Reference in this regard may be made

 to Ram Kishore and others v. Jainarayan, ILR 49 Calcutta

 120, wherein it has been observed that under the Customary

 Law, a brother can be adopted, a daughter's son can be adopted,

 there is no limit as to the age of the person who may be

 adopted, a married man who has had children may be adopted;

 and a guardian may give a boy in adoption. No contrary view

 has been brought to my notice to the effect that amongst Jats

 such a person cannot be adopted. Therefore, I am of the opinion

 that the adoption of Harkesh respondent cannot be challenged

 on this ground." In the case in hand, the claim of defendant Bhim Singh is based

upon the document Ex.D2 which is a registered adoption deed dated

14.9.1979. Undoubtedly, the courts while construing a document, are under

an obligation to examine its true purport and draw an inference with respect

to the actual intention of the parties. Thus, a document must be construed,

taking into consideration the real intention of the parties. The substance, and

 20 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 21 not the form of a document, must be seen in order to determine its real

purport. In Delta International Limited v. Shyam Sundar Ganeriwalla

& Anr. , 1999(2) R.C.R.(Civil) 471 SC , Hon'ble Apex Court held that the

intention of the parties is to be gathered from the document itself. Intention

must primarily be gathered from the meaning of the words used in the

document, except where it is alleged and proved that the document itself is a

camouflage. If the terms of the document are not clear, the surrounding

circumstances and the conduct of the parties have also to be borne in mind

for the purpose of ascertaining the real relationship between the parties. If a

dispute arises between the very parties to the written instrument, then

intention of the parties must be gathered from the document by reading the

same as a whole. Mere technicalities therefore, cannot defeat the purpose of

adoption, particularly when the plaintiff/appellant has not made any attempt

to disprove the said document. No reference was ever made either by him,

or by his witnesses, to this document i.e. registered adoption deed.

Undoubtedly, the natural parents of Bhim Singh had signed along with the

witnesses. In Atluri Brahmanandam (D), Thr. LRs. v. Anne Sai Bapuji,

2011(2) R.C.R.(Civil) 97 SC, the Supreme Court held : 21 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 22 legality of the said document or to the validity of the same.

 Therefore, the said registered adoption deed went unrebutted and

 unchallenged. We have already referred to the recitals in the said documents

 which is a registered document and according to the recitals

 therein, the respondent was legally and validly adopted by the

 adoptive father. Since the aforesaid custom and aforesaid

 adoption was also recorded in a registered deed of adoption, the

 Court has to presume that the adoption has been made in

 compliance with the provisions of the Act, since the respondent

 has utterly failed to challenge the said evidence and also to

 disprove the aforesaid adoption." In the backdrop of the ratio decidendi laid down in the above

referred precedents, let us examine the adoption deed Ex.D2 in order to

gather its true construction and intention of the persons giving and taking

defendant Bhim Singh in adoption. This document has also been attested by

various witnesses and relatives of Mam Raj and Ghoor Mal, out of them,

Duli Ram has been examined as DW3, who is none else but the maternal

uncle of Bhim Singh being the real brother of Smt.Chameli. This witness

being the relative of the parties has special means of knowledge of their

family matters, especially with regard to the adoption. He not only proved

the adoption deed Ex.D2 but also proved the photograph which was clicked

at that time. He has testified that Bhim Singh was taken in adoption by Mam

Raj in the presence of Ghoor Mal and Smt. Chameli (natural parents of

Bhim Singh). He further testified that the natural parents had put Bhim

Singh into the lap of Mam Raj. Apart from it, another attesting witness Mr.

 22 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 23 Sharwan Kumar, Advocate has been produced as DW4. He has stated that

adoption deed Ex.D2 was presented by Mam Raj before the Joint Sub

Registrar who has read over and explained its contents to Mam Raj and

Mam Raj in the presence of natural parents of Bhim Singh and all of them

admitted the same to be correct. He also proved the document and also

established the intention of executant thereof. Thus, it has been successfully proved by leading cogent

evidence that Ex.D2 was executed on 14.9.1979 by Mam Raj and was

registered with the office of Joint Sub Registrar, Palwal on the same day.

The same is also signed by the natural parents of Bhim Singh namely Ghoor

Mal and Smt.Chameli. A bare perusal of Ex.D2 transpires that it contains

the following recitals : - 23 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 24 Smt. Chameli also put their thumb impressions on this adoption

 deed (Ex.D2) in token of its correctness and they had given

 their consent. (v) that although Mam Raj had taken Bhim Singh in

 adoption when the latter was 10 years of age, yet formal

 adoption deed could not be executed on that day, as such he

 had executed Ex.D2 on 14.9.1979. (vi) In Ex.D2, it is also stated that Bhim Singh had attained

 all the rights of a son and none of the relatives of Mam Raj was

 having any objection. It is mentioned in Ex.D2 that before it,

 Mam Raj had never taken any person in adoption. A careful examination of registered adoption deed (Ex.D2)

makes it abundantly clear that the adoption was in accordance with the Act

and the same is valid. The intention of Mam Raj is very much visible and

clear that he bestowed all the rights of his son upon Bhim Singh. Thus, the

adoption was fully legal and valid under the custom of Punjab. In addition to the custom, if we consider the adoption in

question under the provisions of Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act ,

even then the same is also found to be valid. As stated above, it has been

specifically recited in the adoption deed Ex.D2 that in fact Bhim Singh was

taken in adoption about 10 years earlier when Bhim Singh was only 9 or 10

years of age. However, at the time of execution of Ex.D2, he was 20 years

of age. The document Ex.D2 was duly signed by the natural parents of Bhim

Singh as well as his adopted father Mam Raj which clearly denotes their

consent to give Bhim Singh in adoption to Mam Raj. It has come into

evidence that the same was read over and explained to all of them. Thus,

 24 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 25 each one was knowing the contents of this document Ex.D2. The intention

of Mam Raj as well as the natural parents of Bhim Singh namely Ghoor Mal

alias Ghoori and Smt. Chameli was that the adoption was given effect and

Bhim Singh was put in the lap of Mam Raj who accepted him as his son. All

this happened when Bhim Singh was only 10 years of age. Said Mam Raj,

Ghoor Mal and Smt. Chameli are rustic. Therefore, they could not got

execute a formal adoption deed which could be executed in the shape of

Ex.D2 after about 10 years therefrom. However, this document establishes

the intention of said Mam Raj, Ghoor Mal as well as Smt. Chameli to the

effect that Bhim Singh had snapped all the ties with the natural family and

he was given in adoption and was also validly taken in adoption by Mam

Raj. At that time, when actual adoption had taken place, Bhim Singh was

about 10 years of age. The claim of respondent Bhim Singh is further strengthened by

the presumption as provided under section 16 of the Act. This provision

requires that where there is a duly registered document, then the Court shall

presume that the adoption was in accordance with the provisions of the Act

unless and until it is disproved. In the case in hand, the factum of adoption

in accordance with the provisions of the Act has been well proved. When a

lawful adoption takes place, a presumption under Section 16 can be drawn

and the presumption would operate as long as it is not challenged or it is not

rebutted by a procedure known to law. This presumption is about the

validity of a adoption and that the adoption is in conformity with the Act.

Thus, the case of defendant Bhim Singh is also supported by the

presumption as contemplated under Section 16 of the Act. 25 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 26 In S.T. Krishnappa v. Shivakumar & Ors. , 2007(3) R.C.R.

(Civil) 778 SC, Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that the "adoption deed" However, the facts in case Madan Lal v. Vinod Kumar (supra)

are distinguishable. That case pertains to the state of Madhya Pradesh. The

adoption was not proved therein but in the case in hand, the adoption by

way of customary rules of Punjab is fully established and the same is also

valid under the provisions of the Act. The facts in Marimuthu v. Pichal Ammal and others (supra) are

on different footings. In that case, the suit was dismissed on the ground that

the plaintiff failed to prove the adoption and adoption deed was registered

after 12 years thereafter and natural mother was not signatory to such deed

and no explanation was furnished for this. However, this situaiton is not

 26 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 27 available in the case in hand. The facts in case Dhanraj v. Suraj Bai (supra) are

distinguishable. That was a adoption by step mother. It was held that step

mother is not a competent person to give a child in adoption and only the

natural parents are competent to give a child in adoption. The facts in case Dhanno and others v. Tuli Ram and others (supra) are also dinstinguishable. It was held that the person claiming

adoption must prove the ceremonies of the adoption. The ratio decidendi laid down by the Full Bench of this Court

in case Pritam Singh v. Assistant Collector of Estate Duty, Patiala (supra) is

not in dispute herein. In that case, it was held that Sikhs and Sikh Jats are

Hindus and their personal law is Hindu law and thus, they are governed by Hindu Successions Act . So far as the plea of fraud and undue influence as taken by the

plaintiff is concerned, the same is not available to him as he was stranger to

the documents in question i.e. the adoption deed and will. Mam Raj had

never challenged these documents on any ground. Apart from it, no amount

of evidence has been adduced to prove the plea of fraud or undue influence. Learned counsel for the appellant has also submitted that in the

school leaving certificate mark PX, the name of the father of Bhim Singh is

mentioned as Ghoor. This Court has considered the said document but it

carries no weight. A bare perusal of document Ex.PX transpires that the

date of birth of Bhim Singh is 8.2.1958. He was admitted in the school on

4.5.1964 and discharged on 31.3.1969 after passing 5th standard

examination. The adoption has taken place much after the admission of

Bhim Singh defendant in the school. It seems that he was adopted

 27 of 28 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2017 00:00:23 ::: RSA-970-1989 (O&M) 28 somewhere in the year 1968-69. A careful evaluation of the evidence makes it abundantly clear

that the adoption of Bhim Singh was in accordance with the Act as he was

less than 15 years of age at the time of actual adoption and also the natural

parents had given their consent for adoption and in fact, they put Bhim

Singh into the lap of Mam Raj. Thus, the adoption was fully legal and in

accordance with the provisions of the Act. Thus, viewing from all the angles, this Court reaches to the

conclusion that Bhim Singh was validly adopted by Mam Raj and Ex.D2 is

a legal and valid document. After the death of Mam Raj, Bhim Singh had

inherited him being the sole natural heir. In this view of the matter, this appeal is devoid of any merit and

the same is hereby dismissed with costs and the judgment of the first

appellate court stands upheld.