in Towne v. Eisner [245 US 418, 425 : 62 L Ed. 372
(1917)] 149. In determining the question whether a provision is
mandatory or directory, the subject-matter, the
importance of the provision, the relation of the provision
to the general object intended to be secured by the Act
will decide whether the provision is directory or
mandatory. It is the duty of the courts to get the real
intention of the legislature by carefully attending the
whole scope of the provision to be construed. The key to
the opening of every law is the reason and spirit of the
law, it is the animus impotentia, "the intention of the law-
maker expressed in the law itself, taken as a whole". [See
Bratt v. Bratt, (1826) 3 Addams 210.] 150. The necessity for completing the election
expeditiously is enjoined by the Constitution in public and
State interest to see that the governance of the country is
not paralysed. Satyarath Prakash Agrawal v. State of M.P. and
 others 2008(4) MPLJ 485, (MP) (DB) 48. If object of the enactment would be defeated by
 holding the provision as directory it will be construed as
 mandatory, whereas if by holding the provision
 mandatory serious general inconvenience will be created
 to innocent persons without very much furthering the
 object of enactment the same will be construed as
 directive. (B) The Office of Vice President filled by indirect elections is not

constitutionally provided in Part IX-A of Constitution of India
which is an indication that Office of Vice President is not
essential for a valid and legal composition, existence and
subsistence of a Municipal Council as per section 19 of the 1961
Act which in turn raises necessary inference that all procedures
connected to the elections to the Office of Vice President cannot
be construed to be mandatory. Pradip Kumar Maity v. Chinmoy Kumar Bhunia,
 (2013) 11 SCC 122, [3 J.B.] 13. ... The Constitution of India is the grund norm,
 demanding meticulous allegiance from all other laws.
 Statutes, Central/parliamentary or of State Legislatures,
 must mandatorily comply with our Constitution. We must
 hasten to emphasise that statutes must also conform with
 the discipline of the three lists contained in the Seventh
 Schedule to the Constitution. Most statutes postulate the
 promulgation of Rules, through delegated legislation, which,
 if they are not ultra vires the statute inasmuch as they are
 operational within the parameters of their parent pandects,
 require adherence. Executive orders or administrative
 instructions cease to have legal efficacy the moment they
 are contrary to their superiors i.e. the Constitution, a
 statute, or any delegated legislation in the form of rules or
 regulations. This is also referred to as "dominion
 paramountcy" by some courts. ... (C) Procedural provisions are normally directory in nature unless
the statute in express terms provides for a penal consequence
for it's breach. Jagan Nath v. Jaswant Singh And Others , AIR 1954
 SC 210, [5 J CONSTI. BENCH] 7. The general rule is well settled that the statutory
 requirements of election law must be strictly observed and
 that an election contest is not an action at law or a suit in
 equity but is a purely statutory proceeding unknown to the
 common law and that the court possesses no common law
 power. It is also well settled that it is a sound principle of
 natural justice that the success of a candidate who has won
 at an election should not be lightly interfered with and any
 petition seeking such interference must strictly conform to
 the requirements of the law. None of these propositions
 however have any application if the special law itself confers
 authority on a tribunal to proceed with a petition in
 accordance with certain procedure and when it does not
 state the consequences of non-compliance with certain
 procedural requirements laid down by it. It is always to be
 borne in mind that though the election of a successful
 candidate is not to be lightly interfered with, one of the
 essentials of that law is also to safeguard the purity of the
 election process and also to see that people do not get
 elected by flagrant breaches of that law or by corrupt
 practices. In cases where the election law does not
 prescribe the consequence, or does not lay down penalty for
 non-compliance with certain procedural requirements of that
 law, the jurisdiction of the tribunal entrusted with the trial of
 the case is not affected. M.V. "Vali Pero" v. Fernandeo Lopez , (1989) 4 SCC
 671, [3.J.B.] 23. If the word "shall" used in this expression is construed
 as mandatory, non-compliance of which nullifies the
 deposition, drastic consequence of miscarriage of justice
 would ensue even where omission of the witness' signature
 is by inadvertence and correctness of the deposition as well
 as its authenticity is undisputed. On the other hand, if the
 word "shall" used in this expression is treated as directory,
 the court will have power to prevent miscarriage of justice
 where the omission does not cause any prejudice and the
 defect is only technical. The object of the provision being
 merely to obtain acceptance of the witness to the 9 WP.No. 929/2015 correctness of the deposition, that object would be
advanced by taking this view and thereby empowering the
court to avoid the drastic consequence of nullifying the
deposition where the correctness and authenticity is
undisputed. In a case where the correctness has been
disputed, it would be permissible for the court to examine
the effect of omission of the witness' signature and to reject
the deposition only if it does not accept the correctness and
authenticity thereof on the available material. Karnal Improvement Trust v. Parkash Wanti, (1995)
5 SCC 159, [DB] 11. There is a distinction between ministerial acts and
statutory or quasi-judicial functions under the statute. When
the statute requires that something should be done or done
in a particular manner or form, without expressly declaring
what shall be the consequence of non-compliance, the
question often arises: What intention is to be attributed by
inference to the legislature? It has been repeatedly said that
no particular rule can be laid down in determining whether
the command is to be considered as a mere direction or
mandatory involving invalidating consequences in its
disregard. It is fundamental that it depends on the
scope and object of the enactment. Nullification is the
natural and usual consequence of disobedience, if the
intention is of an imperative character. The question in the
main is governed by considerations of the object and
purpose of the Act; convenience and justice and the result
that would ensue. General inconvenience or injustice to
innocent persons or advantage to those guilty of the
neglect, without promoting the real aim and object of the
enactment would be kept at the back of the mind. The
scope and purpose of the statute under consideration must
be regarded as an integral scheme. The general rule is that
an absolute enactment must be obeyed or fulfilled exactly
but it is sufficient if a directory enactment be obeyed or
fulfilled substantially. When a public duty, as held before, is
imposed and statute requires that it shall be performed in a
certain manner or within a certain time or under other
specified conditions, such prescriptions may well be
regarded as intended to be directory only in cases when
injustice or inconvenience to others who have no control
over those exercising the duty would result if such
requirements are not essential and imperative. Ram Deen Maurya (Dr.) v. State of U.P., (2009) 6 SCC
735, [DB] 10 WP.No. 929/2015 42. Having examined the Rules and the principles evolved
by the Courts, let us now examine whether non-compliance
with one of the facets of Rule 4(6) of the Rules would be
fatal to the application filed by Dr. Madhu Tandon. 43. To answer this issue, it is necessary to find out, whether
the Rule is directory or mandatory. If it is mandatory, then it
is settled rule of interpretation, it must be strictly construed
and followed and an act done in breach thereof will be
invalid. But if it is directory, the act will be valid although
the non-compliance may give rise to some other penalty if
provided by the statute. It is often said that a mandatory
enactment must be obeyed or fulfilled exactly, but, a
directory provision non-compliance with it, has been held in
many cases as not affecting the validity of the act done in
breach thereof (see Principles of Statutory Interpretation,
11th Edn. 2008 by Justice G.P. Singh). 52. While considering the non-compliance with procedural
requirement, it has to be kept in view that such a
requirement is designed to facilitate justice and furthers its
ends and, therefore, if the consequence of non-compliance
is not provided, the requirement may be held to be
directory. Deo Prasad Kashyap and another v. Chancellor,
Indira Gandhi Krishi Vishwavidyalaya and others,
1989 MPLJ 285, (MP) (DB)

5A. ... When consequence of nullification on failure to
comply with a prescribed requirement is provided by the
statute itself, there can be no manner of doubt that such
statutory requirement must be interpreted as mandatory.
When the statute does not specifically provide for
nullification as a consequence of the non-compliance of the
statutory injunction but imposes expressly some other
penalty, it is a question of construction in each given case
whether the legislature intended to lay down an absolute
prohibition or merely to make the offending person liable for
the penalty. It may also be mentioned that the use of the
word "shall" in many cases has been held to be directory,
although it is ordinarily construed as mandatory, depending
upon the real intention of the legislature and the scope of
the statute. Where the enactment is mandatory it has to be
obeyed or fulfilled exactly. A directory provision may be
obeyed or fulfilled substantially but complete non-
compliance of such a directory provision need not affect the
validity of an act done in its breach. (See : State of U. P. vs.
Manbodhanlal Shrivastava ( AIR 1957 SC 912) and L. Hazari 11 WP.No. 929/2015 Mal Kuthiala vs. I.T.O., Ambala Cantt , AIR 1961 SC 200).
 The law in this regard has been summed up by G. P. Singh,
 J. in his 'Principles of Statutory Interpretation', 3rd Edition,
 at page 275, as follows: State Bank of Patiala v. S.K. Sharma , (1996) 3 SCC
 364, 33. We may summarise the principles emerging from the
 above discussion. (These are by no means intended to be
 exhaustive and are evolved keeping in view the context of
 disciplinary enquiries and orders of punishment imposed by
 an employer upon the employee): Smt. Bhulin Dewangan vs State Of M.P. And Ors.,
2001 (2) MPLJ 372 [FB], (MP) 15. The general rule is that non-compliance of mandatory
requirement results in nullification of the Act. There are,
however, several exceptions to the same. If certain
requirements or conditions are provided by statute in the
interest of a particular person, the requirements or
conditions, although mandatory, may be waived by him if no
public interest is involved and in such a case the act done
will be valid even if the requirements or conditions have not
been performed. .................. As has been construed by us,
even though second part of the rule requiring dispatch of
notice of the meeting to the member is mandatory, yet in 13 WP.No. 929/2015 every case of challenge to the proceeding of no-confidence
 motion either before the Collector or this Court, it would still
 be open to the Collector or this Court to find out whether in
 a given case non-compliance of any part of the rule has in
 fact resulted in any failure of justice or has caused any
 serious prejudice to any of the parties. The general rule is
 that a mandatory provision of law requires strict compliance
 and the directory one only substantial. But even where the
 provision is mandatory, every non-compliance of the same
 need not necessarily result in nullification of the whole
 action. In a given situation even for non-fulfillment of
 mandatory requirement, the authority empowered to take a
 decision may refuse to nullify the action on the ground that
 no substantial prejudice had been caused to the party
 affected or to any other party which would have any other
 substantial interest in the proceeding. This Court under Article 227 of the Constitution has also a discretion not to
 interfere even though a mandatory requirement of law has
 not been strictly complied with as thereby no serious
 prejudice or failure of justice has been caused. ... P.T. Rajan v. T.P.M. Sahir , (2003) 8 SCC 498 [3 J.B.], 49. Furthermore, a provision in a statute which is
 procedural in nature although employs the word "shall" may
 not be held to be mandatory if thereby no prejudice is
 caused. (E) Procedural provisions relating to time are normally directory. Smt. Bhulin Dewangan vs State Of M.P. And Ors.,
 2001 (2) MPLJ 372 [FB], (MP) 16. We get some support in our conclusion on the
 construction of the provisions contained in the Rule from
 Statutory Construction by Francis J. McCaffrrey, 1953
 Edition, Article 52 , Page 110 where it stated: (Looney v. Hughes, 26 N.Y., 514). While the Courts
 are inclined to hold such provisions to be directory
 only as to time, they will be read as mandatory if the
 nature of the act to be performed or the phraseology 14 WP.No. 929/2015 of the statute indicates an intention on the part of the
 legislature to exact a literal compliance with the
 requirement of time. The Courts seek to achieve a
 just result in not ascribing an invalidating effect to the
 failure of public officers to observe the time provisions
 of statutes; a contrary rule would operate unfairly in
 prejudicing the rights of persons who have no control
 over the conduct of the public officer." and from the following passage in Statutory Interpretation
 by Francis Bennion, Second Edition, Part I, Section 10 page
 34: P.T. Rajan v. T.P.M. Sahir , (2003) 8 SCC 498, [3 J.B.] 48. Furthermore, even if the statute specifies a time for
 publication of the electoral roll, the same by itself could not
 have been held to be mandatory. Such a provision would be
 directory in nature. It is a well-settled principle of law that
 where a statutory functionary is asked to perform a
 statutory duty within the time prescribed therefor, the same
 would be directory and not mandatory. Punjab State Electricity Board ... vs Zora Singh &
 Ors., AIR 2006 SC 182, [DB] 36. We are not oblivious of the fact that when public
 functionary is asked to perform a statutory duty within a
 specified time, the provisions of the statutes are normally
 held to be directory in nature. [See P.T. Rajan Vs. T.P.M.
 Sahir and Others , (2003) 8 SCC 498] But the said principle
 would not apply in cases when injustice or inconvenience to
 others would be caused who have no control over those
 exercising the duty if such requirements are not essential or
 imperative. [See Karnal Improvement Trust, Karnal Vs.
 Parkash Wanti (Smt.) (Dead) and Another [(1995) 5 SCC
 159]. (F) Procedural provisions are meant to further the cause of
substantive provisions. The provision for issuance of notice by 15 WP.No. 929/2015 giving certain time gap between it's dispatch and holding of
meeting is procedural in nature whereas conduction of the
election to the office of Vice President is substantive provision. Saiyad Mohd. Bakar El-Edroos v. Abdulhabib Hasan
 Arab, (1998) 4 SCC 343, [DB] 8. A procedural law is always in aid of justice, not in
 contradiction or to defeat the very object which is sought to
 be achieved. A procedural law is always subservient to the
 substantive law. Nothing can be given by a procedural law
 what is not sought to be given by a substantive law and
 nothing can be taken away by the procedural law what is
 given by the substantive law. Sardar Amarjit Singh Kalra v. Pramod Gupta , (2003)
 3 SCC 272, [5 J. CONSTI. BENCH] 26. Laws of procedure are meant to regulate effectively,
 assist and aid the object of doing substantial and real justice
 and not to foreclose even an adjudication on merits of
 substantial rights of citizen under personal, property and
 other laws. Procedure has always been viewed as the
 handmaid of justice and not meant to hamper the cause of
 justice or sanctify miscarriage of justice. ... 31. ... With the march and progress of law, the new
 horizons explored and modalities discerned and the fact that
 the procedural laws must be liberally construed to really
 serve as handmaid, make it workable and advance the ends
 of justice, technical objections which tend to be stumbling
 blocks to defeat and deny substantial and effective justice
 should be strictly viewed for being discouraged, except
 where the mandate of law inevitably necessitates it. ... N. Balaji v. Virendra Singh , (2004) 8 SCC 312, [3 J.B.] 10. In the matter of applicability of the procedural rigours
 the Constitution Bench of this Court in Sardar Amarjit Singh
 Kalra v. Pramod Gupta , [(2003) 3 SCC 272] has observed
 that laws of procedure are meant to regulate effectively,
 assist and aid the object of substantial and real justice and
 not to foreclose even an adjudication on the merits of
 substantial rights of citizen under personal, property and
 other laws. With the march and progress of law, the new
 horizons explored and modalities discerned and the fact that
 the procedural laws must be liberally construed to really
 serve as handmaid, make it workable and advance the ends 16 WP.No. 929/2015 of justice, technical objections which tend to be stumbling
blocks to defeat and deny substantial and effective justice
should be strictly viewed for being discouraged, except
where the mandate of law inevitably necessitates it. It
follows from the decision by the Constitution Bench that the
procedure would not be used to discourage the substantial
and effective justice but would be so construed as to
advance the cause of justice. ... Kailash v. Nanhku , (2005) 4 SCC 480, [3 J.B.] 28. All the rules of procedure are the handmaid of justice.
The language employed by the draftsman of processual law
may be liberal or stringent, but the fact remains that the
object of prescribing procedure is to advance the cause of
justice. In an adversarial system, no party should ordinarily
be denied the opportunity of participating in the process of
justice dispensation. Unless compelled by express and
specific language of the statute, the provisions of CPC or
any other procedural enactment ought not to be construed
in a manner which would leave the court helpless to meet
extraordinary situations in the ends of justice. The
observations made by Krishna Iyer, J. in Sushil Kumar Sen
v. State of Bihar [(1975)1SCC 774] are pertinent: (SCC p.
777, paras 5-6)

 "The mortality of justice at the hands of law troubles
 a judge's conscience and points an angry
 interrogation at the law reformer. The processual law so dominates in certain systems
 as to overpower substantive rights and substantial
 justice. The humanist rule that procedure should be
 the handmaid, not the mistress, of legal justice
 compels consideration of vesting a residuary power in
 judges to act ex debito justitiae where the tragic
 sequel otherwise would be wholly inequitable. ...
 Justice is the goal of jurisprudence -- processual, as
 much as substantive." Uday Shankar Triyar v. Ram Kalewar Prasad Singh ,
(2006) 1 SCC 75, [3 J.B.] 17. Non-compliance with any procedural requirement
relating to a pleading, memorandum of appeal or application
or petition for relief should not entail automatic dismissal or
rejection, unless the relevant statute or rule so mandates.
Procedural defects and irregularities which are curable
should not be allowed to defeat substantive rights or to 17 WP.No. 929/2015 cause injustice. Procedure, a handmaiden to justice, should
 never be made a tool to deny justice or perpetuate injustice,
 by any oppressive or punitive use. The well-recognised
 exceptions to this principle are: Sk. Salim Haji Abdul Khayumsab v. Kumar, (2006) 1
 SCC 46, [DB] 13. No person has a vested right in any course of
 procedure. He has only the right of prosecution or defence
 in the manner for the time being by or for the court in which
 the case is pending, and if, by an Act of Parliament the
 mode of procedure is altered, he has no other right than to
 proceed according to the altered mode. [See, Blyth v. Blyth,
 (1966) 1 All ER 524.] A procedural law should not ordinarily
 be construed as mandatory, the procedural law is always
 subservient to and is in aid to justice. Any interpretation
 which eludes or frustrates the recipient of justice is not to
 be followed. 14. Processual law is not to be a tyrant but a servant, not
 an obstruction but an aid to justice. Procedural prescriptions
 are the handmaid and not the mistress, a lubricant, not a
 resistant in the administration of justice. (G) Procedural provisions prescribing public duty to be
performed by a public functionary are directory in nature, unless
public interest is hampered leading to injustice or inconvenience. Dattatraya Moreshwar v. State of Bombay , 1952 SCR
 612, [5 J.CONSTI.BENCH] 18 WP.No. 929/2015 3. ... It is well settled that generally speaking the provisions
of a statute creating public duties are directory and those
conferring private rights are imperative. When the provisions
of a statute relate to the performance of a public duty and
the case is such that to hold null and void acts done in
neglect of this duty would work serious general
inconvenience or injustice to persons who have no control
over those entrusted with the duty and at the same time
would not promote the main object of the legislature, it has
been the practice of the courts to hold such provisions to be
directory only, the neglect of them not affecting the validity
of the acts done. ... Raza Buland Sugar Co. Ltd. v. Municipal Board ,
(1965) 1 SCR 970, [5 J CONSTI. BENCH] 9. ... This Court relied on the following observations of the
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Montreal Street
Railway Company v. Normandin [AIR 1917 PC 142] in that
connection: Delhi Airtech Services (P) Ltd. v. State of U.P., (2011)
9 SCC 354, (DB) 125. Where a statute imposes a public duty and proceeds to
lay down the manner and time-frame within which the duty
shall be performed, the injustice or inconvenience resulting
from a rigid adherence to the statutory prescriptions may
not be a relevant factor in holding such prescription to be
only directory. State (NCT of Delhi) v. Sanjay, (2014) 9 SCC 772,
 (DB) 66. The question is whether a statute is mandatory or
 directory depends upon the intent of the legislature and not
 upon the language in which the intent is clothed. The
 meaning and intention of the legislature must govern, and
 these are to be ascertained, not only from the phraseology
 of the provision, but also by considering its nature, its
 design, and the consequences which would follow from
 construing it the one way or the other. 67. In Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes, 10th Edn.
 at p. 381, it is stated thus: (H) After introduction of Part IX-A - 'The Municipalities' in the
Constitution of India by way of 74 th Amendment w.e.f. 01-06-
1993, under Article 243ZG strict bar to interference by courts in
electoral matters has been placed. The provision begins with a
non-obstante clause thereby provideing in mandatory terms that
an election to any municipality ought not to be interfered with
while exercising supervisory jurisdiction in a Writ Petition filed
under Article 226/ 227 except in very exceptional cases. Jaspal Singh Arora v. State of M.P. , (1998) 9 SCC 594,
 (DB)[Very short order, followed subsequently] 3. These appeals must be allowed on a short ground. In
 view of the mode of challenging the election by an election 20 WP.No. 929/2015 petition being prescribed by the M.P. Municipalities Act , it is
clear that the election could not be called in question except
by an election petition as provided under that Act. The bar
to interference by courts in electoral matters contained in Article 243-ZG of the Constitution was apparently
overlooked by the High Court in allowing the writ petition.
Apart from the bar under Article 243-ZG , on settled
principles interference under Article 226 of the Constitution
for the purpose of setting aside election to a municipality
was not called for because of the statutory provision for
election petition and also the fact that an earlier writ
petition for the same purpose by a defeated candidate had
been dismissed by the High Court. Kurapati Maria Das v. Dr. Ambedkar Seva Samajan,
(2009) 7 SCC 387, (DB) 19. In the first place, it would be better to consider as to
whether the bar under Article 243-ZG(b) is an absolute bar.
The article reads thus: At least from the language of clause (b), it is clear that the
bar is absolute. Normally, where such a bar is expressed in a
negative language as is the case here, it has to be held that
the tone of clause (b) is mandatory and the bar created
therein is absolute. 20. This Court in its recent decisions has held the bar to be
absolute. First such decision is Jaspal Singh Arora v. State of
M.P. [(1998) 9 SCC 594]. In this case the election of the
petitioner as the President of the Municipal Council was
challenged by a writ petition under Article 226 , which was
allowed setting aside the election of the petitioner. In para 3
of this judgment, the Court observed: ( Jaspal Singh case,
SCC p. 595)

 "3. ... it is clear that the election could not be called in
 question except by an election petition as provided
 under that Act. The bar to interference by courts in
 electoral matters contained in Article 243-ZG of the
 Constitution was apparently overlooked by the High
 Court in allowing the writ petition. Apart from the bar
 under Article 243-ZG , on settled principles 21 WP.No. 929/2015 interference under Article 226 of the Constitution for
 the purpose of setting aside election to a
 municipality was not called for because of the
 statutory provision for election petition...." 21. The second such decision is Gurdeep Singh Dhillon v.
 Satpa [(2006) 10 SCC 616]. In that decision, after quoting Article 243-ZG(b) the Court observed that the shortcut of
 filing the writ petition and invoking constitutional jurisdiction
 of the High Court under Articles 226/227 was not
 permissible and the only remedy available to challenge the
 election was by raising the election dispute under the local
 statute. Ashok Kumar Tripathi v. Union of India (UOI) and
 Ors, 2001(4) MPLJ 206, (MP) (DB) 28. We have given our anxious consideration to the weight
 of the preliminary objection. We have also considered the
 decisions of the Supreme Court and of Punjab & Haryana
 High Court cited at bar. We find, as held by Supreme Court,
 the purpose of creating a bar under Articles 243O and 243ZG in electoral matters by the Court is obviously that
 objections or alleged breach of law in the process of election
 here or there by one Section of people or one section of
 contestants in a particular ward/s of constituency should not
 be allowed to stifle the election process to the detriment of
 not only the willing contestants but also the entire electorate
 and to cause waste of huge expenditure, energy and time of
 the staff employed in election machinery. As has been
 observed by the Supreme Court in Anugrah's case [ Anugrah
 Narain Singh and Another v. State of U.P. : (1996) 6 SCC
 303] if such interferences at the instance of an individual or
 group of individuals is permitted on some or the other
 illegality in the process of election, no election can ever be
 completed within the time schedule. 29. ... No election should be interdicted or stalled merely on
 the ground of some alleged infraction of Rules or Procedure
 in holding the election and all disputes should be relegated
 to a stage after the conclusion of the election, through the
 election petition and on grounds available in election law. ... 7. In view of the above, I am unable to concur with the view of the
Division Bench in the case of Awadh Behari (supra) to the extent it
holds the provision of Sec. 56 (3) to be mandatory to the extent of
vitiating the end result of the duly held elections to the Office of Vice 22 WP.No. 929/2015 President merely for the notice for convening first meeting falling
 short by prescribed seven (7) days in absence of any prejudice to
 petitioner for the reason of it's breach. 8. In terms of the provisions of Rule 8(3) of Chapter 4 of High
 Court of Madhya Pradesh Rules, 2008 matter be placed before
 Hon'ble the Chief Justice for placing the same before a larger Bench
 for considering the following question:-