1. Upon a query to the learned Senior Counsel for the appellant, the
Court is informed that merely the offensive tagline has been removed but the
offensive post itself, which damages the fair name of the respondent, has not
been removed from the You Tube channels across the world, as was directed
by the impugned order as well as the order dated 04.06.2015. 2. The Court would note that the case has been listed for nine times in
the last 64 odd days. On each occasion, the time was sought by the
appellant to comply with the directions of the Court. Today, the Court is
informed that the directions cannot be complied with on account of
technological reasons. 3. Accordingly, the Court deems it appropriate to traverse the facts of
the case. The appellants impugn the order dated 18.01.2018 passed by
the Ld. Additional District Judge, Saket Courts, New Delhi directing them to
comply with the order dated 04.06.2015 which directed as under: 4. The impugned order reasoned as under: ‗‗(2) BURDEN OF ESTABLISHING CONSISTENCY OF
 JUDGMENT.--The party seeking recognition or
 enforcement of the foreign judgment shall bear the burden
 of establishing that the judgment is consistent with section 230.
 ‗‗(d) APPEARANCES NOT A BAR.--An appearance by a
 party in a foreign court rendering a foreign judgment to
 which this section applies shall not deprive such party of the
 right to oppose the recognition or enforcement of the
 judgment under this section, or represent a waiver of any
 jurisdictional claims.....‖ 10. It is argued that the freedom of speech in the United States of
America (in short „USA‟) is absolute unless it is injuncted in that country by
a Court of competent jurisdiction. The email communication from the
appellants to their counsel seems to suggest that a John Doe injunction order
could well be taken from the American Courts to seek the identity of the
Google LLC subscriber, who had uploaded the offending post or otherwise FAO No. 93 of 2018 Page 9 of 17 seek diplomatic procedures such as the Hague Evidence Convention. The
appellants have, in effect, expressed the inability to provide any information
with respect to the person who uploaded the offending post, unless they are
so directed to do by an American Court. With reference to an affidavit
dated 26.04.2018 of Ms. Asya Strickland, Custodian of Records, working at
Google LLC, the appellants state that the offending post was not uploaded
from India but it resolves with USA. 11. The learned counsel for the appellant states that the Directive
Principle of State policy, as embodied in the Constitution of India, in
particular Article 51 thereof, the Indian Public Policy would be to endeavour
to foster respect for international law and treaty obligations in the dealings
of organized people with one another; it is in this spirit and for the
international comity of Courts that the laws of USA should be respected and
given effect to. He refers to the judgment of Court of Justice Sao Paulo in
Twitter Brasil Rede d Informacao Ltda vs Tim Celular S/A dated 26th July,
2016 which in a similar case held: 12. Likewise, the Sao Paulo State Court of Appeal in the case of Google
Brasil Internet Ltda vs Luiz Eduardo Auricchio Bottura et. alius by its
decision dated 05.04.2017 seeking removal of an offending video about a
service offered by the defendant and published by the co-defendant with the
title „O golpista do ano‟ (the scam artist of the year), as well as the receipt of
compensation for pain and suffering, held: 13. In the same vein, he refers to an order of the Northern District of
California, San Jose Division dated 02.11.2017 in Google LLC vs Equustek
Solutions Inc., which stayed the direction of the Supreme Court of Canada
to Google to de-index the websites of a party which carried out business
from unknown locations using the plaintiff‟s intellectual property. In part
compliance of the Canadian order, Google had de-indexed only specific web
pages associated with the injuncted party, thus rendering the order
ineffective because the injuncted party simply moved its objectionable
content to new pages within its website thereby circumventing the Canadian
Court‟s order. The issue before the Court was whether the interlocutory
injunction against Google could be upheld. The Canadian Court reasoned as
under: index websites that are in violation of several court orders.
 We have not, to date, accepted that freedom of expression
 requires the facilitation of the unlawful sale of goods...‖ 14. Google‟s appeal against the said order was dismissed. In effect it was
required to comply with the worldwide injunction. The case was taken up
by the Northern District of California where Google had argued that the
Canadian order was not enforceable in USA because it conflicted directly
with the First Amendment, disregards the Communication Decency Act‟s
immunity for interactive service providers, and violates the principles of
international comity. With reference to the SPEECH Act, the American
Court held: 15. In view of the aforesaid, the learned counsel for the appellant submits
that the orders of the Indian Court cannot be given effect to because the
video linked on Youtube was not uploaded from India and the SPEECH Act
constrains the appellant from disclosing such information. 16. Mr. Sapra, the learned Senior Advocate for the respondent submits
that the appellants now seek to wriggle out of a difficult situation. He
contends that the affidavit of Ms. Asya Strickland is an endeavour to defeat
the process of justice. The interim order dated 04.06.2015 records, in effect,
that the appellant had not specifically disputed that the offending post was
posted from India. The said order has not been challenged and has,
therefore, attained finality. Hence, the appellants are required to comply
with it. 17. The Court would note that it was never the case of Google that the
contents of the offending post had been uploaded from a place outside India.
It held that the contents have been uploaded from India, hence they were
ordered to be removed from the internet so as to restore the position as it
was prior to the uploading of the contents. The impugned order went on to
hold that the contents which were uploaded from India, if transposted
outside the jurisdiction of the country, cannot be said to be beyond the
jurisdiction of India, and it could well be blocked or removed following the
path by which it was uploaded. The Court is of the view that in the first FAO No. 93 of 2018 Page 15 of 17 instance, the injunction order dated 04.06.2015, which has not been
challenged, has attained finality. It holds that on the basis of the pleadings
and/or lack of denial from Google that the offending post had been uploaded
from India, Google was required to remove it so as to restore status quo
ante. 18. The affidavit of Ms. Asya Strickland is of no evidentiary value since
it is not apostilled before an Indian Consular Office in the USA. However,
for the sake of argument if it were to be examined, it does not bring in any
evidentiary value or legal reasoning to reverse a finding that already exists
in terms of the impugned order, for almost three years. If it was the
appellants‟ case that the offending post was uploaded from outside India, it
should have so stated before the trial court. In the circumstances, the
affidavit now relied upon by the appellants is a clear attempt to over-reach
the orders of this Court. Such endeavour cannot be permitted. 19. There is no merit in the appeal and accordingly it is to be dismissed.
However, at this stage, Mr. Poovaya, the learned Senior Counsel for the
appellant seeks to withdraw the appeal to pursue his remedies as may be
available in law on the basis of supervening, technological and technical
reasons in removing the offensive post. 20. The Court, however, is unable to see as to how the contents being
posted on the platform of the appellant can govern or steer the functioning of
the platform itself. Contents can never be the master of the vehicle or
platform on which they are posted. The owner of the platform can always
remove such material from its portal, if it so wishes. Mr. Sapra, the learned FAO No. 93 of 2018 Page 16 of 17 Senior Counsel for the respondent, submits that there is no technological or
technical constraint in removing the offensive post from You Tube channels. 21. However, since at this stage, the learned counsel for the appellant
seeks to withdraw the appeal, subject to such terms as this Court may
impose. The Court would note, as mentioned above, the case has been listed
nine times in a short period of 64 days; each time the case was adjourned at
Google‟s request. The judicial time consumed is being sought to be set at
naught, simultaneously the respondent must have expended monies on the
litigation. The request is allowed on the condition that the appellant will not
raise any of the arguments already addressed in this order and subject to
payment of cost of Rs. 50,000/- per hearing; of which Rs. 1 lakh shall be
paid to the Delhi High Court Mediation and Conciliation Centre. The
remaining amount shall be paid to the respondent. 22. The appeal, alongwith pending applications, is dismissed as
withdrawn in the above terms. NAJMI WAZIRI, J. MAY 17, 2018
kk/sb FAO No. 93 of 2018 Page 17 of 17