1. Article 21 of the Constitution of India protects not only the human

 rights but also casts an obligation on human beings to protect and

 preserve a specie becoming extinct, conservation and protection of

 environment is an inseparable part of right to life. In M. C. Mehta v.

 Kamal Nath and Others (1997) 1 SCC 388, the Court enunciated

 the doctrine of "public trust", the thrust of that theory is that

 certain common properties such as rivers, seashores, forests and

 the air are held by the Government in trusteeship for the free and

 unimpeded use of the general public. The resources like air, sea,

 waters and the forests have such a great importance to the people

 as a whole, that it would be totally unjustified to make them a

 subject of private ownership. The State, as a custodian of the

 natural resources, has a duty to maintain them not merely for the 1 benefit of the public, but for the best interest of flora and fauna,

 wildlife and so on. The doctrine of 'public trust' has to be addressed

 in that perspective. 2. The issues raised in this application are encroachment on water

 bodies, Talab around the Govardhan Sagar Tank situated in the

 city Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh with prayer to issue directions to the

 Respondents to protect the water body/talab situated in Survey No.

 1281 admeasuring around 36 bigha approx. (which has nearly shrunk to

 half) commonly known as Govardhan Sagar. It is submitted that the tank

 is situated near Nagar Kot Mata temple and is used by the general public

 since time immemorial for religious and other purposes. As a result of

 the continuous neglect, certain private persons and housing societies

 have made various encroachment constructions along the talab which is

 causing damage to the water body and depletion of water resource„ and

 rampant pollution, due to which almost the entire Lake has vanished

 and is on the verge of extinction. The survey number was previously

 recorded in the name of Municipal Committee, Ujjain shown in

 revenue records of the year 1927-28 as Milkiyat Sarkar Municipal

 Committee Ujjain. The said land was always in the ownership of the

 State Government through Municipal Corporation and has always

 been accessible and use by general public, and the same was never

 under the control of any private persons. Throughout, the years

 various encroachments and settlements have cropped up near the

 Gowardhan Sagar possibly by playing fraud with the revenue records

 as is reflected from the survey and report of revenue authorities. As a

 result of this certain private persons and housing societies have made

 various constructions along the talab which is causing damage to the

 water body and depletion of water resource, and pollution. After

 enactment of the M. P. Abolition of Proprietary Rights Act, 1950, and

 also the insertion of Section 251 of the M.P. Land Revenue Code,

 1959, all propriety and non-proprietary rights of private individuals 2 and land owners in respect of any tanks, ponds water channels etc.,

 stand abolished and the same is vested in the State Government. The

 State Government by virtue of law is the protector and conservator of

 the said water body. Special provisions have been made in the Ujjain

 Master Plan 2021- highlighting the immediate reasons and need or

 water consideration in Goverdhan Sagar, and restrict building and

 polluting activities within and near the talab to the extent of 30 mtrs. 3. A further prayer has been made to issue directions to remove

 encroachment, to take remedial measures from discharging the

 untreated water / sewage water into the water bodies, to take

 necessary steps and planning with scheme for reformation and

 reclamation of water in the Goverdhan Sagar and to formulate a

 viable and realistic policy for its future conservation and

 maintenance and to ensure that no construction takes place within

 30 meter of Goverdhan Sagar and that no building permission be

 granted within the area of the water bodies and to preserve the

 environment on the principals of sustainable development,

 Precautionary Principals and Polluters Pay Principal.

 Brief facts: The effect of the same has been stated as follows: Under the head of scope for improvement it has been mentioned as: Proceedings before this Tribunal 5. The matter was taken up by this Tribunal on 07.02.2022 and a

 Joint Committee consisting (i) Collector, Ujjain, M.P, (ii) One

 representative from Central Pollution Control Board, M.P. (iii) One

 representative from Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board, M.P

 was constituted with directions to submit Factual and Action

 Taken Report. 6. In compliance thereof, the Joint Committee has submitted the

 report which is as follows: Ujjain's religious leaders recently organised a massive clean-up to
 conserve the Goverdhan Sagar. 4. The Committee observed a thin water stream emerging from
 inside the Patel Nagar area, joining the pond, a surface run-
 off from the residential area. 5. In the Vikramaditya cloth market, around 300 shops and residential
 houses exist, and the domestic waste water collected in a
 sump. It. is pumped to the Fazalpura drain, further drained in
 Somwarinala. Septic tanks were constructed on the backside of the
 residential houses, and the overflow of this tank was also collected
 in the main sump. At the time of the visit small quantity of the
 waste water was found overflowing from the sump, which is
 further drained out in the pond. 6. To assess the pond's present water quality, two samples have been
 collected, i.e. pond in front of Charitable hospital, Nikaschouraha
 and the pond at the backside of Nagarkotki rani temple. 7. To assess the present ground water quality due to pond water's
 percolation, two samples have been collected, i.e. handpump near
 Bhuvaneshwari temple and Ganesh tekri Ujjain. 8. The waste water sample of the overflow sump of Vikramadityacloth
 market was also collected. 9. The Ujjain municipal corporation also submitted the Goverdhan
 Sagarlake area plan under the sewerage project. A map shows the
 network of seweragepiplines and open sewers flowing into the
 Goverdhan Sagar lake. Thesewer from areas around the Goverdhan
 Sagar lake, i.e., from Patel Nagar, Vikramaditya market, Fazalpura,
 Nagar Kot Mata mandir, Charitable hospital main road is flowing
 into the Goverdhan Sagar lake. The above area is considered in the
 DPR of the phase-1 underground sewerage scheme. After the
 construction of this proposed pipeline, the open channels from the
 sewer around Goverdhan Sagar lake will be connected with the
 main trunk link. 10. Smart City Ujjain vide its resolution dated 18.01.2021
 (Agenda item 66) has recognized the problem of encroachments
 and other development around Goverdhan Sagar, one of the
 major water body among famous sapt sagar of Ujjain. The Smart 5 City Ujjain has resolved to take up the project for the rejuvenation of
 Goverdhan Sagar lake, conserving the environment and its
 development as a recreational city, as one of the interventions of the
 Ujjain Smart City. The Board of the Smart City Ujjain has resolved to
 accord in-principle approval for Rejuvenation and Development of
 Govardhan Sagar Lake, Ujjain. The estimate for this work around 13
 crores. Information regarding Encroachment of Govardhan Sagar

 As per information received from Tehsildar Ujjain regarding
 encroachment and area of Goverdhan Sagar vide letter No. 339 dt.
 21/03/2022, the present status of survey No. 1281 (Total Area 7.716
 Hact.) is as follows:- Ujjain Development Plan 2021 (wef 16.06.2006 publication

 in the Gazette) no. 17 of paragaraph 2.15, number 4 of

 Table 2-Sa-4 to Sapta Sagar (English translation form

 original Hindi Text)

No Details Situatio Status Reasons Effect on Possibility
 . n of of the Sagar of
 Sagar pollution improvemen
 t

4 Govardha East of Water - Filling of - Waer - Cleaning
 n Sagar the catchme the quality is the
 Nikasa nt area sagar very poor sources - To use - Breeding supplying
 and on (Cleanin
 as a ground of water to
 the south- g of garbage various the sagar
 west of main dumping diseases - Improving
 Nagarkot' channels site - Mosquito water
 s Rani supplyin - Use as a es ecology
 Devi g water toilet by through
 to the the fist
 surroun farming
 Budhwari sagar)
 ding - Improveme
 a populati nt in the
 intersectio on sewerage
 n and - Massive system of
 Ankpat construc the
 road tion of surroundin
 permane g
 nt population. Remarks: The study of Sapt Sagars suggest that the basic structure

is changing and area is reducing due to the surrounding land use.

Wherever there has been soil erosion in the embankment area of the

sagar it should be prevented. The ecological changes taking place in

these water sources should be informed to the adjacent rural areas

and the abadi so that they can be conserved properly. And these

religious and cultural heritage of Ujjain city should continue to exist.

It will be necessary to bring 30 meters green belt around Sapta

Sagar. B. In the integrated Ujjain development plan 2021(effective from

 16.06.2006) land use of survey number 1281 of Govardhan

 Sagar is kept as a reservoir and 300 meters around Govardhan

 Sagaris kept as green belt. The relevant point number -17 of

 paragraph-2.15 of development plan 2021 is development and

 protection of resources. C. It is very clear that Govardhan Sagar is a pond of religious and

 historical value and efforts have been made in the master plan of

 Ujjain with effect from 2006 to conserve and preserve the land as

 a water body. However some private persons have erroneously

 and possibly fraudulently got the land entered into the land

 records and have tried to develop the land for commercial and

 residential activities. Indeed one Bhanushali Grah Nirman

 Cooperative Society got a colony layout approved on the site of

 the water body on survey number 1281/1/1 further information

 regarding commercial and residential use of survey number 1281

 related to Govardhan Sagaris as follows -  The application of Bhanushali Grah Nirman Cooperative Society

 Ujjain was received on 15.03.1987 which was received by this

 office's inward number 4435 dated 15.12.1987.

 The land survey number 1281/1/1 area 5.322 located in Ujjain town

 was proposed for residential use in the Ujjain development plan

 1991. According to the technical analysis report in the T&CP office, the 9 land in question is under residential use according to the development

 plan map, and Govardhan Sagar was initially earmarked for

 educational use as per clause 14.34 of the English book number 250 of

 the development plan 1991. But if no educational institution is

 established here in five years then it is proposed to be developed as a

 leisure centre. In such a situation what should be considered as

 land use of the land in question", this remark is mentioned in the

 note sheet of the T&CP on page no. 1.  In this regard, guidance from the Director, T & CP was sough vide

 the official letter no. 222 dated 18.01.1988. The Director did not

 give any guidance in this regard within the stipulated time period.

 The matter was to be resolved within the stipulated period of

 60 days, therefore, considering the color map of the Ujjain

 Development Scheme 1991 as the basis, permission was issued

 by the official letter no. 728-734 dated 02.03.1988 residential

 land use.  Application was received regarding extension of the approved

 layout on 13.02.1989, which was extended vide letter no. 673

 dated 02.03.1989. The letter is available in the file but the file

 and the note sheet is not available. Letter no. 1440/

 Namani/93 Ujjain dated 19.07.1990 is registered in the

 outgoing register but is not available in the file. In the said

 letter, it has been written that it is not appropriate to extend

 the time period of the layout as per the instructions received

 by from Director City and Village Investment Bhopal,

 268/CTC/90 Bhopal dated 06.07.1990 on following grounds: Bombay Environmental Action Group Vs. State of Maharashtra 2018

 SCC online bombay 2680.2019(1) Bombay CRI and it was held as

 follows:- The ―Precautionary Principle‖ has been accepted as a
 part of the law of the land. Articles 21 , 47 , 48-A and 51-
 A(g) of the Constitution of India give a clear mandate to
 the State to protect and improve the environment and to
 safeguard the forests and wildlife of the country. It is
 the duty of every citizen of India to protect and improve
 the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers
 and wildlife and to have compassion for living
 creatures. The ―Precautionary Principle‖ makes it
 mandatory for the State Government to anticipate,
 prevent and attack the causes of environment
 degradation. We have no hesitation in holding that in
 order to protect the two lakes from environmental
 degradation it is necessary to limit the construction
 activity in the close vicinity of the lakes. 17. India is endowed with extraordinarily diverse and
 distinctive traditional water bodies found in different
 parts of the country, commonly known as ponds, tanks,
 lakes, vayalgam, ahars, bawdis, talabs and others.
 They play an important role in maintaining and
 restoring the ecological balance. They act as sources of
 drinking water, recharge groundwater, control floods,
 support biodiversity, and provide livelihood 26 opportunities to a large number of people. Currently, a
major water crisis is being faced by India, where 100
million people are on the frontlines of a nationwide
water crisis and many major cities facing an acute
water shortage. The situation will worsen as United
Nations and Niti Ayog reports say that the demand for
water will reach twice the available supply, and 40 per
cent of India's population will not have access to clean
drinking water by 2030. One of the reasons is our
increasing negligence and lack of conservation of
waterbodies. Since independence, the government has
taken control over the waterbodies and water supply.
With a colonial mindset, authorities move further and
further away in the quest of water supply, emphasing
more on networks, infrastructure and construction of
dams. This, over time, has led to the neglect of
waterbodies and catchments areas. As a result, we
have started valuing land more than water. In the last
few decades, waterbodies have been under continuous
and unrelenting stress, caused primarily by rapid
urbanisation and unplanned growth. Encroachment of
waterbodies has been identified as a major cause of
flash floods in Mumbai (2005), Uttrakhand (2013),
Jammu and Kashmir (2014) and Chennai (2015).
Further, waterbodies are being polluted by untreated
effluents and sewage that are continuously being
dumped into them. Across the country, 86 waterbodies
are critically polluted, having a chemical oxygen
demand or COD concentration of more than 250 mg/l,
which is the discharge standard for a polluting source
such as sewage treatment plants and industrial effluent
treatment plants. In urban India, the number of
waterbodies is declining rapidly. For example, in the
1960s Bangalore had 262 lakes. Now, only 10 hold
water. Similarly, in 2001, 137 lakes were listed in
Ahmedabad. However, by 2012, 65 were already
destroyed and built upon. Hyderabad is another
example. In the last 12 years, it has lost 3,245 hectares
of its wetlands. The decline in both the quality and
quantity of these waterbodies is to the extent that their 27 potential to render various economic and environmental
services has reduced drastically. Although there are
sufficient polices and acts for protection and restoration
of waterbodies, they remain insufficient and ineffective. 18. Realizing the seriousness of the problem confronting
waterbodies, the Centre had launched the Repair,
Renovation and Restoration of Water Bodies' scheme in
2005 with the objectives of comprehensive improvement
and restoration of traditional water bodies. These
included increasing tank storage capacity, ground
water recharge, increased availability of drinking
water, improvement of catchment areas of tank
commands and others. However, in this regard, not
much has been seen on the ground. 19. It is of utmost importance for meeting the rising
demand for water augmentation, improving the health
of waterbodies as they provide various ecosystem
services that are required to manage microclimate,
biodiversity and nutrient cycling. Many cities are
working towards conservation of waterbodies like the
steps initiated in the capital city of Delhi for instance. In
turning Delhi into a city of lakes, rejuvenation of 201
waterbodies has been finalised. Of these, the Delhi Jal
Board (DJB) plans to revive 155 bodies while the Flood
and Irrigation Department will revive 46. DJB claims
that the aim is to achieve biological oxygen demand or
BOD to 10ppm and total suspended solids to 10mg/l.
Also the establishment of the Wetlands Authority by the
Delhi government is a welcome step towards notifying
and conserving natural waterbodies. In order to achieve
the goal of revival of waterbodies, it is important to
understand that one solution may not fit all the
waterbodies. Depending on the purpose, ecological
services, livelihood and socio-cultural practices, the
approach will vary from one waterbody to another.
However the issues with regard to lack of data and
action plans, encroachments, interrupted water flow
from the catchment, siltation, violations of laws, solid
waste deposit and polluted water, involvement of too
many agencies, etc have to be taken into consideration. 28 Action needs to be taken towards: This needs to be brought back into the system. 5. Thus, an integrated approach taking into
 account the long-term sustainability, starting from
 the planning stage where looking at every
 waterbody along with its catchment, is required. 16. The natural source of air, water and soil cannot be utilized, if the

 utilization results in irreversible damage to environment. There has

 been accelerated degradation of the environment primarily on

 account of lack of effective enforcement of environmental laws and

 non- compliance with statutory norms. It has been repeatedly held

 by the Supreme Court that the right to live is a fundamental right

 under Article 21 of the Constitution and it includes the right to

 enjoyment of pollution free water and air for full enjoyment of life. 29 The definition of sustainable development which was given more

 than three decades back still holds goods. The phrase covers the

 development that meets the need of the present without

 compromising the availability of future generation to meet their own

 needs. Sustainable development means the type or extent of

 development that can take place and which can be sustained by

 nature / ecology with or without mitigation. In these matters the

 required standards now is that the risk or harm to the environment

 or to human health is to be decided in public interest according to a

 reasonable person test. Life, public health and ecology has priority

 over unemployment and loss of revenue. 17. It is further contented by the learned counsel for the applicant that

 this is a condition which is squarely covered by Hinchlal Tiwari Vs

 Kamla Devi 2001 AIR SCW 2865 followed and quoted in Jagpal

 Singh Vs State of M.P. (2011) 11 SCC 396. It is authoritatively

 reiterated in Hinchlal Tiwari and Jagpal Singh that land recorded as

 pond must not be allotted to anybody for construction of a house or

 any allied purpose. The court ordered the respondents in the case of

 Hinchlal Tiwari and Jagpal Singh to vacate the land they had

 illegally occupied after taking away the material of the house. In

 another case of MI Builders (P) Ltd. Vs Radheshyam Sahu (1999) 6

 SCC 464 the Supreme Court ordered restoration of a park after

 demolition of shopping complex constructed at the cost of Rs.100

 crores. 18. Both these judgments of Hinchlal Tiwari and Jagpal Singh have

 been appreciated by a Division Bench of the court in ( 2011) 2 MPLJ

 618 Rinkesh Goyal Vs. State of M.P. in which under similar

 circumstances directions have been given that there should not be

 any encroachment over the land of ponds, tanks and lakes. Long

 period of encroachment is no defence and does not give any equity. 30 The cost of construction done after destroying a pond is also

 immaterial. 19. In the present case it is undisputed that the pond area has been

 converted into the cultivation of crops, construction of residential,

 commercial activities which is not permissible in law. The inevitable

 conclusion therefore is the same has to be restored. 20. Rule 4(v) of the Wetland Conservation and Management Rule, 2017

 states that any construction of the permanent nature within

 specified distance of the high flood level is prohibited. It is further

 provided that the wet land shall be conserved and managed in

 accordance with the principles of wise use as determined by the wet

 land authority. The perusal of the report submitted by the Collector

 reveals that the construction of a permanent nature and inside from

 the edge of the full reservoir flood level which would mean it is in

 the water body itself. Thus the construction is in violation of Rule

 4(v) Wetland Conservation and Management Rule, 2017 which

 expressly prohibits such construction. Hon'ble the Supreme Court

 in the matter of Peoples united for better living in Kolkata Vs. East

 Kolkata Wet Land Management Authority and others reported in

 2017 SCC online had directed for the removal of illegal construction

 within the East Kolkata Wet land in the following way. 14. That furthermore, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in M/s
Vaamika Island v. Union of India and Ors. reported in
(2013) 8 SCC 760 upheld the order of the High Court of
Kerala directing for demolition of structures in the
Vembanad Backwater, which is the second largest
wetland in India and held that any violation of
notifications for the protection of the environment
cannot be condoned: Conservation of wetlands in general and Ramsar sites
in particular is a significant aspect of protection of
environment. To give effect to the Sustainable Development
and Precautionary Principles, which have been held to be part
of right to life and are to be statutorily enforced by this
Tribunal under Section 20 of the National Green Tribunal Act,
2010, effective action plan and its execution is imperative.
There is discussion in the media about inadequacy of
monitoring of action for restoration of lakes, wetlands and
ponds which is certainly necessary for strengthening the rule
of law and protection of public health and environment

 Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017
contain elaborate provisions for protection of Wetlands and
National and State Wetland Authorities have been set up.
However, the fact remain that the wetlands are facing serious
challenge of conservation as shown by the present case and
other cases which are the Tribunal dealing with from time to
time. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in M.K. Balakrishnan and
Ors v. Union of India and Ors reported in (2017) 7 SCC 810
has specifically directed for the application of the principles of
Rule 4 of the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules,
2010 for all 2,01,503 wetlands identified in the ―National
Wetland Inventory & Assessment‖ and held that no
construction of a permanent nature will be allowed: ... (vi) any construction of a permanent nature except for boat
jetties within fifty meters from the mean high flood level
observed in the past ten years calculated from the date of
commencement of these Rules. Thus, the present construction
took place in 2015-2016 and will be covered by this decision
and must be removed. 17. In light of the above orders as well as the rules framed
under the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules
2017, it is submitted that the illegal construction within the
Dhamapur wetland is therefore liable to be demolished.

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Mantri Techzone Pvt. Ltd. v.
Forward Foundation reportedin 2019 (18) SCC 494while
directing for the demolition of illegal constructions within
wetlands, had ordered for the restoration of the area to its
original condition. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that
this Hon'ble Tribunal is has wide powers of restoration and all
orders must be 237 governed by the principles in Section 20 for taking restorative measures for the environment: ―42. The
Tribunal also has jurisdiction under Section 15(1)(a) of the Act
to provide relief and compensation to the victims of pollution
and other environmental damage arising under the
enactments specified in Schedule I. Further, under Section
15(1)(b) and 15(1)(c) the Tribunal can provide for restitution of
property damaged and for restitution of the environment for
such area or areas as the Tribunal may think fit. It is
noteworthy that Section 15(1)(b) & (c) have not been made
relatable to Schedule I enactments of the Act. Rightly so, this
grants a glimpse into the wide range of powers that the
Tribunal has been cloaked with respect to restoration of the
environment. 43. Section 15(1)(c) of the Act is an entire island
of power and jurisdiction read with Section 20 of the Act. The
principles of sustainable development, precautionary principle
and polluter pays, propounded by this Court by way of
multiple judicial pronouncements, have now been embedded
as a bedrock of environmental jurisprudence under the NGT
Act . Therefore, wherever the environment and ecology are
being compromised and jeopardized, the Tribunal can apply Section 20 for taking restorative measures in the interest of
the environment. 44. The NGT Act being a beneficial
legislation, the power bestowed upon the Tribunal would not
be read narrowly. An interpretation which furthers the
interests of environment must be given a broader reading. (See Kishsore Lal v. Chairman, Employees' State Insurance
Corpn. (2007) 4 SCC 579, para 17). The existence of the
Tribunal without its broad restorative powers under Section
15(1)(c) read with Section 20 of the Act, would render it
ineffective and toothless, and shall betray the legislative
intent in setting up a specialized Tribunal specifically to
address environmental concerns. The Tribunal, specially
constituted with Judicial Members as well as with Experts in
the field of environment, has a legal obligation to provide for 34 preventive and restorative measures in the interest of the
 environment. ... 60...All the offending constructions raised by
 Respondents Nos. 9 and 10 of any kind including boundary
 wall shall be demolished which falls within such areas.
 Wherever necessary dredging operations are required, the
 same should be carried out to restore the original capacity of
 the water spread area and/or wetlands. Not only the existing
 construction would be removed but also none of these
 Respondents - Project Proponent would be permitted to raise
 any construction in this zone. 21. While disposing the Original Application No. 325 of 2015 vide order

 dated 18.11.2020, this Tribunal, while dealing with restoration of

 water bodies observed as follows: 22. Learned Counsel for the applicant has argued that in view of

 the provision as contained in Section 57 Madhya Pradesh Land

 Revenue Code the entire land of water body, minerals etc. are the

 property of the State Government. The State Government is the

 owner of the land including water bodies and the Municipal

 Corporation was not competent to take any decision to construct

 commercial shops or residential buildings on and around the said

 water body. He has also taken reliance on the judgement of the

 Hon'ble the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Sukchain vs. the State

 of Madhya Pradesh decided on 20.09.2017 (High Court of Madhya

 Pradesh at Jabalpur in Writ Petition No. 1377/2016). The relevant

 portions are quoted as below: [see- 'Legends in Law', Page 372, Universal Publication ] 15. Before dealing with rival contentions, it is apposite to refer

 the relevant portion of Sections-5-A and 7 of the Adhiniyam: 16. As noticed, the constitutional provision and Sections-5-A

and 7 of the Adhiniyam in no uncertain terms makes it clear

that powers and functions of Gram Sabha are not absolute in

nature. Such powers and functions are subject to the 37 provisions of local laws and general instructions/orders

issued by the Government. The State legislature introduced

Madhya Pradesh Gram Panchayat (Registration of Coloniser

Terms & Conditions) Rules, 1999 (hereinafter called as 'Rules

of 1999'). Rule 2(i) describes 'Competent Authority' which

means such Sub Divisional Officer who has jurisdiction over

Gram Panchayat concerned. Rule 2(d) defines 'Coloniser'. This

definition is wide enough to include the activity of converting

any land including agricultural land into plots and action to

transfer such plots to the persons desirous to construct

residential or non-residential or group housing etc. The Rules

of 1999 further provide the methodology for the purpose of

registration etc. As per these rules, the Government has made

attempt to ensure that even land situated in a Panchayat is

regulated by way of statutory rules. Section-57 of Madhya

Pradesh Land Revenue Code reads as under: 17. As per this provision, the legislature has declared that not

 only the lands but all such things including -(a) standing and

 flowing water, (b) mines, (c) quarries, (d) minerals, (e) forest

 reserved or not and (f) all rights in the sub-soil of any land,

 shall be the property of the State Government.

 In exercise of power under Section-172 of the said Code, rules

regarding diversion of land for building purposes were notified by

notification No.1183-(VIII)-63, 03.05.1963. Rules 7 of these rules

reads as under: 18. A careful reading of this provision shows that if a public

 tank is being used for the purpose of nistar etc. by general

 public, permission for its diversion can be granted only for the

 purpose of agriculture. Thus, the Government has taken pains

 to ensure that pond/water bodies are properly preserved.

 Writ Petition No.1377 of 2016. 19. Reverting back to Section-7 of the Adhiniyam, on which

 great emphasis was laid by Shri Trivedi, it is apposite to

 mention that clause (j-ii) provides that in order to manage

 natural resources, the necessary powers can be exercised. 39 Interestingly, we 'manage' something which is precious to us.

We manage our family, finance, property, resources etc. Thus,

the word 'manage' in the context it is used, shows an

endeavour to keep, preserve and protect the natural

resources including the pond. In Black's Law Dictionary

the word 'manage' is defined as 'to control and direct', 'to

administer', 'to take charge of' etc. Almost similar meaning is

given to this word in Webster's Comprehensive Dictionary and

P. Ramanatha Aiyar's Law Lexicon. This is golden rule of

interpretation that 'interpretation must depend on the text and

the context'. Neither can be ignored. Both are important. That

interpretation is best which makes the textual interpretation

match the contextual. A statue is best interpreted when we

know why it was enacted. (See 1987 ( 1) SCC 424 [Reserve

Bank of India Vs. Peerless General Finance and Investment

Company Limited & others ]). It is equally well settled that

adopting the principle of literal construction of the statue

alone, in all circumstances without examining the context and

scheme of the statue, may not subserve the purpose of the

statue. In the words of V.R.Krishna Iyer, J., such an approach

would be 'to see the skin and miss the soul'. Whereas, 'the

judicial key to construction is the composite perception of deha

and dehi of theprovision'. (See 1977 ( 2) SCC 256 [The

Chairman, Board of Mining Vs. Ramjee ] followed in 2013 ( 3)

SCC 489 [Ajay Maken Vs. Adesh Kumar Gupta and another ]). 20. Thus, in my view, the word 'manage' cannot be read in the

manner suggested by the petitioners. A combined reading of

aforesaid reproduced clauses of Section-7 shows that the

legislative intention behind it is to preserve and protect the

water bodies/tanks. I am unable to hold that Gram Sabha has

any unfettered/unbridled power to 'manage' its water bodies

in the manner it likes. The preservation of water bodies is the 40 constitutional mandate and the statutory duty of the Gram

Sabha. Writ Petition No.1377 of 2016. 21. On more than one occasion, the Courts have expressed

their concern for preservation of water bodies. In 2001 ( 6) SCC

496 [Hinch Lal Tiwari Vs Kamla Devi ], the Apex Court

considered Section-117 of U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land

Reforms Act, 1950. As per said provision, certain powers were

given to the Gaon Sabhas and other local Authorities. While

interpreting the said provision, it was held that it is difficult to

sustain the order of the High Court. There exists a concurrent

finding that a pond exists and the area covered by it varies in

the rainy season. In such a case, no part of it could have been

allotted to anybody for construction of house building or any

allied purposes. 22. The judgment of Hinchlal Tiwari (supra) was again

considered in 2011 (11) SCC 396 [Jagpal Singh Vs State of

Punjab]. In addition, the judgment of Madras High Court

reported in 2005 (4)CTC 1 (MAD) [L. Krishnan Vs State of T.N.]

was considered and it was held that the Court will pass a

similar order as it was passed in Hinchlal Tiwari and L.

Krishnan (supra). A Division Bench of this Court also

expressed its concern about conservation of water and natural

resources in 2011 ( 2) MPLJ 618 [Rinkesh Goyal Vs State of

Madhya Pradesh ]. Pertinently, it was a PIL in which

necessary directions as under were issued. [Emphasis supplied]

 Writ Petition No.1377 of 2016. 23. In 2006 ( 1) SCC 1 [T.N.

 Godavaraman Thirumulpad Vs. Union of India & others ]

 the Apex Court poignantly held as under: "Natural,

 resources are the assets of the entire nation. It is the

 obligation of all concerned, including the Union Government

 and State Governments to conserve and not waste these

 resources. Article 48-A of the Constitution requires that the

 State shall endeavour to protect and improve the

 environment and to safeguard the forest and wildlife of the

 country. Under Article 51-A , it is the duty of every citizen to

 protect and improve the natural environment including

 forest, lakes, rivers and wildlife and to have compassion

 for living creatures." 24. In the same judgment, the Supreme Court held that we are

trustees of natural resources which belong to all including the 42 future generation as well. The public trust doctrine has to be

used to protect the right of this as also the future generation. 25. Similarly, a Division Bench of Madras High Court presided

over by Markandey Katju, CJ and F.M. Ibrahim Kalifulla, J.

(as their Lordships' then were) in 2005 SCC Online Mad 438

[L. Krishnan Vs. State of T.N] considered the need of protecting

water bodies. After considering Articles 21 , 47 , 48-A and 51-A (g) of Constitution, it was held that the State has to protect

and improve the environment. It has to safeguard the forest,

lakes, rivers and wildlife. The 'precautionary principles'

makes it mandatory for the State Government to anticipate,

prevent and attack all of environmental degeneration. The

Madras High Court followed the judgment reported in 1997 ( 3)

SCC 715 [M.C.Mehta Vs Union of India ] and came to hold that

we have no hesitation in holding that in order to protect the

two lakes from environmental degradation, it is necessary to

limit the construction activity in close vicinity of lakes. This

finding is based on para-10 of the judgment of Supreme Court

in the case of M.C. Mehta (supra). In 2015 SCC Online Utt

1829 [Tahseen Vs. State of Uttarakhand and others] Alok

Singh, J. held as under:- 26. In 2013 SCC Online P&H 10564 [Jagdev Singh Vs. State

of Punjab & Haryana and others], the High Court followed the

ratio decidendi of Hinchlal Tiwari (supra) and opined that the

Gram Panchayat which has a statutory obligation to ensure

that water bodies are not diverted for any other use and

further to ensure that these water bodies are protected,

cleaned and recharged, it cannot be allowed to use a part of it

for installation of a statue of a resident of the village. A

Division Bench of Calcutta High Court in 2013 SCC Online Cal

1060 [Sandhya Barik & others Vs. State of West Bengal &

others] expressed its view that this is bounden duty of

panchayat and other authorities to prohibit such construction

and said property cannot be alienated or permitted to be

destroyed in any manner. No construction can be permitted

over such water body. Construction, if any, which have been

made by any person, the respondent cannot claim equity.

Even if any sanction is granted with regard to construction

over the canal, the same is illegal and void. It was further

directed that if there exists any encroachment on water body,

appropriate action must be taken for clearing the 44 encroachment made over the canal. The public trust doctrine

expounded by Supreme Court in M.C. Mehta was followed by

Calcutta High Court in Sandhya Barik (supra). 27. Indisputably, in the instant case, the Gram Sabha

took a decision to construct shops on the periphery

(esM-) of the pond. In view of constitutional scheme,

public trust doctrine and object engrained in Section-7 of the Adhiniyam, Gram Sabha cannot take any

decision or pass resolution to raise construction either

by disturbing the water body or on the periphery(esM-) of

the water tank. In M.C. Mehta (supra), such action was

clearly disapproved by Supreme Court. The common

string in the judgments referred hereinabove is that

herculean efforts should to be made to protect the water

bodies. Such bodies are required to be protected from

greedy politicians and persons. Ancient poet Rahim said: 28. Interestingly, in Jagpal Singh (supra), the Apex Court with

pains recorded that 'our ancestors were not fools'. They knew

that in certain years, there may be droughts or water

shortages for some other reasons, and water was also

required for cattle to drink and bathe in etc. Hence they built a

pond attached to every village, a tank attached to every

temple etc. These were their traditional rain water harvesting

methods, which, served them for thousands of years. With

great concern, Apex Court emphasized that the ponds are now

a day's auctioned of at throw away prices to businessmen for

fisheries in collusion with Authorities/ Gram Panchayat

Officials, and even this money collected from these so called 45 auctions are not used for the common benefit of the villagers

but misappropriated by certain individuals. The time has come

when these malpractices must stop. 29. In the considered opinion of this Court, neither

Constitution nor the Adhiniyam gives any

unbridled/unfettered power and discretion to Gram Sabha to

raise construction at or on the periphery (esM-) of the pond.

Thus, argument of petitioners in this regard must fail. The

judgments of Rajendra Shankar Shukla and S.N.

Chandrashekhar (supra) have no application in the facts and

circumstances of this case. Any autonomy 49 given by the

Constitution or by the Adhiniyam needs to be tested on the

anvil of enabling provision. When impugned action was tested

on the anvil of such enabling provision, the said action was

not found to be in consonance with the enabling provisions nor

such action can be said to be in larger public interest. At this

stage, it is apt to remember the words of Douglas, J. (in United

States Vs. Winderlince [1996 L. Ed. 113:342 US 98 (1951)])

'Law has reached its finest moments when it has freed man

from the unlimited discretion of some ruler.....where discretion

is absolute, man has always suffered'. The Apex Court

followed this principle in 2012 (10) SCC 1[Natural Resources

Allocation In Re, Special Reference No.1 of 2012] and

expressed that it is in this sense that the rule of law may be

said to be the sworn enemy of caprice. Discretion, as Lord

Mansfield stated it in classic terms in Wilkes, (ER p. 334): Burr

at p.2539 means sound discretion guided by law. It must be

governed by rule, not by humour: it must not be arbitrary,

vague and fanciful. Article 343-A read with Section-7 of the Adhiniyam

makes it clear like noon day that law makers have

taken care of this aspect and ensured that unfettered 46 and uncanalized discretion or power is not given to

Gram Sabha in the matter of exercise of their power

and functions. The powers and functions are subject to

the provisions of law and its interpretation by the

Courts. Writ Petition No.1377 of 2016. 30. The reliance was placed by petitioners on the case of 2008

(3) MPLJ 617 [Prathmik Om Sai Gramin Mahila Bahuddeshiya

Sehkari Samitie Maryadit Vs. Sub Divisional Officer, Baihar

and other]. This judgment was relied upon to bolster the

submission that if the complainants/private respondent was

aggrieved by decision of Gram Sabha, the proper course was

to assail the said resolution as per the procedure laid down in Section- 7(H) of the Adhiniyam. In view of relevant provision of

the Constitution, Adhiniyam and Rules made under the

Adhiniyam and Land Revenue Code, the Gram Sabha

was not justified in taking the decision to construct

shops on the periphery (esM-) of the pond. In view of

settled legal position, this Court has no scintilla of

doubt that the Gram Sabha has exceeded its authority

while passing such resolution. In that case, it is not

necessary to relegate the complainant/party to avail

alternative remedy as per Section 7(H) of the

Adhiniyam. Since resolution is passed by exceeding 50

jurisdiction/authority, it will not be proper to compel

the complainant to go through the procedural

technicalities of law. The action of Gram Sabha also

runs contrary to public trust doctrine. Thus, such

resolution and further action based there upon cannot

be permitted to stand. 31. As noticed, in the present case, the learned Collector has

taken decision on the basis of directions issued by this Court 47 in a Public Interest Litigation. It is important to note here that

Punjab & Haryana, Madras and Calcutta High Courts have

entertained Public Interest Litigation and issued necessary

directions for preservation of water bodies. M.P. High Court in Rinkesh Goyal (supra) also entertained a PIL and issued

necessary directions. Since the impugned order is passed as per the directions

issued in PIL, it cannot be said that said order is without

jurisdiction or without authority of law. 32. So far the contention of the petitioners regarding two

different reports of Revenue Authorities regarding (report of

partwari and demarcation report) encroachment on the pond is

concerned, I do not find much substance in the said argument.

True it is that the order of Tehsildar is based on the report of

Patwari and as per Patwari's report, the shops are being

constructed by making encroachment in the pond whereas

Revenue Inspector gave a different report stating that the

construction has been made on the periphery (esM-) of the

water body. In view of clear principles laid down in M.C.

Mehta, permission of construction even in the close vicinity of

water bodies is impermissible. In the present case, as per the

petitioners own claim, the shops are being constructed on the

periphery (esM-) of the lake. Thus, it is clearly done in the

close vicinity of the lake. Thus, contradiction (if any) in the

report of Patwari and Revenue Inspector is of no help to the

petitioners. 33. In view of foregoing analysis, the resolution of Gram

Sabha regarding construction of shops in the periphery (esM-)

of pond cannot be countenanced. The said action runs

contrary to the relevant provisions and law laid down by the

Courts. Thus, no fault can be found in the impugned order. 48 34. Before parting with the matter, I deem it apposite to

 direct the State Government and the concerned

 Collector to ensure that all such

 constructions/encroachments are removed. The official

 respondents shall remove such constructions and

 encroachments and file a compliance report before this

 Court within 60 days. It shall be the duty of

 respondents to restore water pond to its original shape

 and condition and preserve it as per the constitutional

 mandate." 23. Hon'ble the High Court while disposing the various Writ Petitions

 has directed the Collector to ensure that all such construction

 encroachments are removed. The officer respondent shall remove

 such constructions and encroachments and file a compliance

 report within Sixty days and it shall be the duty of respondent to

 restore water pond to its original shape and condition and preserve

 it as for the Constitution mandate. In view of the Constitution

 Provisions, Adhiniyam and the Rules and Governments Orders

 issued under the Adhinyam and Land Revenue Code, the

 Municipal Corporation is not justified in taking the decision to

 construct the commercial shops on the periphery of the pond. In

 view of settled legal position this Tribunal has scintilla of doubt

 that the corporation has exceeded its authority while passing such

 resolution. The action of Corporation runs contrary to public trust

 doctrine. It is to be noted that any autonomy given by the

 Constitution or by Adhiniyam needs to be tested on anvil of

 enabling provisions. When impugned action was tested on the anvil

 of such enabling provisions, the said action was not found to be

 inconsonance with the enabling provisions nor can such action be

 said to be in a larger public interest. 24. The reliance has been placed by the learned counsel on Susetha vs.

 State of Tamilnadu decided on 08.08.2006 by Hon'ble Supreme 49 Court of India, Appeal (Civil) No. 3418 of 2006 (AIR 2006 SC 2893).

The relevant portion are quoted below : Treating the principle of sustainable development as a
 fundamental concept of Indian law, it was opined: xx...............................xx..............................x...............xx

 "We would, however, direct the State and Gram

 Panchayat to see that other tanks in or around

 the village are properly maintained and necessary

 steps are taken so that there is no water shortage

 and ecology is preserved." 25. The philosophy of the judgment as laid-down and quoted above are

 very much clear that the it is the pious duty of the State and Local

 Authorities that the tanks and ponds of the villages are properly

 maintained and necessary steps be taken so that there is no water

 shortage and ecology is preserved. It is nowhere mentioned,

 authorizing anybody and everybody to make encroachment on

 water bodies anywhere or everywhere. 26. In a constitutional framework which is intended to create, foster

 and protect a democracy committed to liberal values, the Rule of

 Law provides the corner stone. The Rule of Law is to be

 distinguished from rule by the law. The farmer comprehence the

 setting up of a legal regime with clearly define the rules and

 principles of even application, a regime of law which maintains the 53 fundamental postulates of liberty, equality and due process. The

 rule of law postulates a law which is answerable to constitutional

 norms. The law in that sense is accountable as much as it is

 culpable of exacting compliance. Rule by the law on other hand

 can mean rule by a despotic law. It is to maintain the just quality

 the law and its observance of reason that Rule of Law precepts in

 constitutional democracy rest on constitutional foundation. 27. It is to be noted that the right to the people to live in the healthy

 environment with minimum disturbance of ecological balance and

 without avoidable hazard to them and to their cattle, homes and

 agriculture land and undue affection of air, water and

 environment. It is for the Government for the Nation and not for

 the Court to decide whether the deposit should be exploited at the

 cost of ecology and environmental consideration or the industrial

 requirement should be otherwise satisfied. It may be perhaps

 possible to exercise greater control and vision over the operation

 and strike a balance between preservation and utilization, that

 could indeed be a matter for an expert body to examine and on the

 basis of appropriate advise, the Government should take a policy

 decision and formally implement the same and for the purpose it is

 for the expert committee to examine as to whether the ponds and

 water bodies can be converted into commercial complex and can

 these operations be permitted on the cost of environmental

 damage. 28. On the cost of repetition we may further quote the decisions of

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of N.D. Jayal & Anr. Vs. Union of

 India & Ors. reported in (2004) 9 SCC 362 dealing with the matter

 of Tehri Dam observed as follows: iii. T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India , (2002)
 10 SCC 606, at page 628: These resources meant for public use cannot be
 converted into private ownership. iv. Intellectuals Forum v. State of A.P. , (2006) 3 SCC 549,
 at page 574: 76. The Supreme Court of California, in National Audubon
 Society v. Superior Court of Alpine Country also known as
 Mono Lake case summed up the substance of the doctrine.
 The Court said: This is an articulation of the doctrine from the angle of
 the affirmative duties of the State with regard to public trust.
 Formulated from a negatory angle, the doctrine does not
 exactly prohibit the alienation of the property held as a public
 trust. However, when the State holds a resource that is freely
 available for the use of the public, it provides for a high degree
 of judicial scrutiny on any action of the Government, no matter
 how consistent with the existing legislations, that attempts to
 restrict such free use. To properly scrutinise such actions of
 the Government, the courts must make a distinction between
 the Government's general obligation to act for the public
 benefit, and the special, more demanding obligation which it
 may have as a trustee of certain public resources [Joseph L.
 Sax ―The Public Trust Doctrine in Natural Resource Law: ―... v. Jitendra Singh v. Ministry of Environment & Ors. ,
2019 SCC Online 1510 pr 20

 " .... ....... 20. .... Waterbodies, specifically, are an important
 source of fishery and much needed potable water.
 Many areas of this country perennially face a water
 crisis and access to drinking water is woefully
 inadequate for most Indians. Allowing such invaluable 65 community resources to be taken over by a few is hence
 grossly illegal." 17. In NGT order dated 27.08.2020 in OA 351/2019, Raja Muzaffar
Bhat vs. State of Jammu and Kashmir & Ors. , it was observed: ........... .......... .............. 34. One of the serious challenges is solid and
 liquid waste management, apart from
 encroachments. There are binding directions of
 the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Almitra H. Patel Vs.
 Union of India & Ors1 . and Paryavaran Suraksha
 vs. Union of India2 on the subject of scientific
 management of solid waste and sewage/effluents
 in accordance with the statutory provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act,
 1974 , („ Water Act ‟) Air (Prevention and Control of
 Pollution) Act, 1981 , („ Air Act ) and waste
 management rules framed under the Environment
 (Protection) Act, 1986 („ EP Act ‟). There is large
 scale non-compliance of the said statutory
 provisions which has led this Tribunal to consider
 the issue of river pollution in OA No. 673/2018,
 News item published in "The Hindu" authored by
 Shri Jacob Koshy Titled "More river stretches are
 now critically polluted: CPC B" in view of
 acknowledged data of 351 polluted river stretches
 in the country. Apart from the said issue, large
 scale failure has been found in the matter of solid
 waste management as repeatedly recorded in O.A.
 No. 606/2018. The Chief Secretaries of all the
 States/UTs were required to remain present in
 person before this Tribunal for interaction and
 further planning. In O.A. No. 325/2015, Lt. Col. Sarvadaman Singh Oberoi v. UOI & Ors. , the
 Tribunal has considered the issue of restoration
 of water bodies. In Original Application No.
 593/2017, Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti & Anr. v.
 UOI & Ors. , the issue of untreated sewage or
 effluent being discharged in water bodies have
 been taken up for consideration. There are several
 other matters dealing with the such issues,
 including coastal pollution, pollution of industrial
 clusters etc. 35. There is discussion in the media about
 inadequacy of monitoring of action for restoration
 of lakes, wetlands and ponds which is certainly
 necessary for strengthening the rule of law and
 protection of public health and environment3.
 Several directions have been issued by the Hon‟ble
 Supreme Court in M.K. Balakrishnan and Ors. v.
 UOI & Ors ." 18. We also note that the Ministry of Urban
 Development, Government of India, Central Public
 Health and Environmental Engineering Organization
 (CPHEEO) has issued an advisory on "Conservation
 and Restoration of Water Bodies in Urban Areas"5
 in August, 2013 which need to be followed. The matter 66 was also considered by the Standing Committee on
Water Resources (2015-16), Sixteenth Lok Sabha. Its
Tenth Report has been published by the Ministry of
Water Resources, River Development and Ganga
Rejuvenation under the heading "Repair, Renovation
and Restoration of Water Bodies-Encroachment on
Water Bodies and Steps Required to Remove the
Encroachment and Restore the Water Bodies"6 in
August, 2016. Further, the "Guidelines for the
Scheme on Repair, Renovation and Restoration
(RRR) of Water Bodies under PMKSY (HKKP)"7 have
been published by the Ministry of Water Resources,
River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Govt. of
India in June, 2017. The said report also provides
useful material to be looked into by the enforcement
agencies. 20. There is, thus, need for continuous planning and
monitoring at National, State and District levels.
Suggestions and observations of CPC B and the
Oversight Committee need to be acted upon. 21. As suggested by the CPC B, a single agency needs
to be set up in every State/UTs within one month. This
work may either be assigned to the Wetland Authority
of the State or the River Rejuvenation Committee or to
any other designated authority such as the Secretary,
Irrigation and Public Health/Water Resources. It is
made clear that if the State Wetland Authority is to be
assigned the task of protection of all water bodies, this
task will be in addition to the normal functioning of the
State Wetland Authority under the Wetland
(Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017. Such
nodal agency must call a preliminary meeting on the
subject with all the District Magistrates on or before
31.01.2021 to take stock of the situation and to plan
further steps. Thereafter, a regular meeting may be held
for periodic monitoring at the District level as well as the
State level with the identified targets of proper and
scientific identification and protection of all water
bodies, assigning unique identification number,
removing encroachments, preventing dumping of waste,
maintaining water quality and restoration by taking
other appropriate steps, involving the Panchayats and
the community, utilizing the financial resources
available from different sources. Steps taken need to be
documented and compiled and reported to a central
authority, preferably the CPC B. This Tribunal has
already constituted a CMC to be headed by the
Secretary, MoJS with the assistance of CPC B and other
authorities to monitor remedial action for 351 polluted
river stretches. Restoration of water bodies is also a
connected issue which can be monitored by the same
Committee atleast thrice a year at the national level.

Directions 22. Accordingly, we dispose of this application with
following directions: 67 b. Submit periodical reports to the CPC B/Secretary Jal
 Shakti, Government of India. First such report may be
 furnished by 28.02.2021. (iii) The CMC for monitoring remediation of 351
 polluted river stretches, headed by the Secretary, MoJS
 may monitor the steps for restoration of water bodies by
 all the States periodically, atleast thrice in a year. First
 such monitoring may take place by 31.3.2021. (iv) The CMC may give its action reports to this
 Tribunal in OA 673/2018 and first such report may be
 furnished preferably by 30.4.2021 by e-mail." 40. The matter of illegal construction in violation of Environmental Laws has

 again been dealt with by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Civil

 Appellate Jurisdiction Civil Appeal No. 5041 of 2021 arising out of SLP

 (C) No. 11959 of 2014 decided on 31.08.2021 where Hon'ble the

 Supreme Court of India discussed the matter of illegal /unauthorised

 constructions as follows:- This Court also held: The same is that a feeling is gathering ground that
 where unauthorised constructions are demolished on
 the force of the order of courts, the illegality is not taken
 care of fully inasmuch as the officers of the statutory
 body who had allowed the unauthorised construction to
 be made or make illegal allotments go scot free. This
 should not, however, have happened for two reasons.
 First, it is the illegal action/order of the officer which 70 lies at the root of the unlawful act of the citizen
 concerned, because of which the officer is more to be
 blamed than the recipient of the illegal benefit. It is thus
 imperative, according to us, that while undoing the
 mischief which would require the demolition of the
 unauthorised construction, the delinquent officer has
 also to be punished in accordance with law. This,
 however, seldom happens. Secondly, to take care of the
 injustice completely, the officer who had misused his
 power has also to be properly punished. Otherwise,
 what happens is that the officer, who made the hay
 when the sun shined (sic), retains the hay, which
 tempts others to do the same. This really gives fillip to
 the commission of tainted acts, whereas the aim should
 be opposite." Noting that the private interest of land owners stands subordinate
to the public good while enforcing building and municipal
regulations, the Court issued a caution against the tendency to
compound violations of building regulations: 71 The Court lamented that the earlier decisions on the subject had
not resulted in enhancing compliance by developers with building
regulations. Further, the Court noted that if unauthorized
constructions were allowed to stand or are ―given a seal of
approval by Court‖, it was bound to affect the public at large. It also
noted that the jurisdiction and power of Courts to indemnify citizens 72 who are affected by an unauthorized construction erected by a
developer could be utilized to compensate ordinary citizens. The Court further observed that an unauthorized construction
destroys the concept of planned development, and places an
unbearable burden on basic amenities provided by public
authorities. The Court held that it was imperative for the public
authority to not only demolish such constructions but also to impose
a penalty on the wrongdoers involved. This lament of this Court,
over the brazen violation of building regulations by developers acting
in collusion with planning bodies, was brought to the fore-front
when the Court prefaced its judgment with the following
observations: Finally, the Court also observed that no case has been made out for
 directing the municipal corporation to regularize a construction
 which has been made in violation of the sanctioned plan and
 cautioned against doing so. In that context, it held: 41. In the conclusion, Hon'ble the Supreme Court of India has directed to

 demolish the illegal and unauthorised construction and the cost of

 demolition and all incidental expenses including the fees payable to the

 experts are directed to be borne by the person who have constructed

 illegally. 42. The learned Collector and the Municipal Commissioner, Ujjain has

 made a request to grant some time so that the further action taken

 report may be filed. Accordingly, we direct as follows: 43. Further Action Taken Report and remedial measures taken by the

 Collector, Ujjain be submitted by the Joint Committee in two (02)

 months. List it on 16th August, 2022

 Sheo Kumar Singh, JM

 Dr. Arun Kumar Verma, EM

5th May, 2022
O.A. No. 11/2022(CZ)
PU 76