Per R. Prasad, Member (dissenting): 2. The second complaint was received from Shri A. K. Baviskar. His complaint
was submitted on 04.12.2007 and it was addressed to Director General (I & R),
MRTP Commission. Shri Baviskar had taken home loan from the ICICI Bank on
floating rate of interest. The loan was taken on an earlier date in March 2005.
Shri Baviskar switched his loan from a fixed rate of 9.99% to floating rate of 8%. For
the switching he paid penalty of Rs. 4119/-. After switching the loan in March 2005
the interest rate started going up and in May 2005 interest rate charged by the bank
on the loan came to 12.5%. According to Shri Baviskar for calculating the home loan
rate, a discount of 1% to 2.5% on the benchmark rate has to be given. As the
benchmark rate was 12.5% the home loan rate should be 10.5%. Shri Baviskar
treats the entire transaction as one of unfair trade practice. 3. The third complaint is by Shri Charanjit Singh and it is addressed to DGIR,
MRTP and the complaint was filed on 10.04.2008 against the ICICI bank. Shri
Charanjit Singh had taken a loan of Rs. 26 lacs from ICICI Home Finance on a
floating rate of interest for the purpose of purchasing a new house. Interest rate
chargeable then was 11%. Subsequently at the time of disbursal the bank increased
the rate by 1% to 12%. In May 2007 the bank again revised the rate up to 11.5% i.e.
downward revision of 0.5% but the informant Shri Charanjit was not passed on the
benefit of the reduced rate. The reason given by the ICICI bank was that the
downward revision was not available to a person who had taken a loan more than
more than 20 Lacs. In his view this was also an unfair trade practice as this
provision was not explained to him at the time of taking the loan. 4. Shri Shiv Kumar Gupta also filed a complaint against the ICICI bank to the
DG, (I&R) on 29.02.2008. He had also taken a home loan on floating rate of interest
from the ICICI bank in May 2007. The bank raised the interest rate on the home
loan from 10.5% to 12.5%. In October 2007 Shri Gupta wanted to switch over from
the ICICI bank to another bank to avail of a lower rate of interest. In the proposal
made by Shri Gupta the bank agreed to reduce the rate of interest to 10.7%. Shri
Gupta wanted the refund of extra interest paid by him from May 2007 to December
2007 of Rs. 9600/- but inspite of efforts made by Shri Gupta no refund was given to
him. This was stated to be an unfair trade practice. 5. The fifth complaint was of Ms. Swapna Muthukrishnan. The informant in this
case stated that HDFC bank was charging interest rate of 8.75% for new loans taken
from January 2009 and charging old loan account customers at 11% interest. This
according to the informant was restrictive trade practice and the informant wanted
that the new interest rate should be applicable to her also. The complaint was
received on 09.03.2009 of DGIR, MRTP Commission. 6. These cases were clubbed together and transferred by the DGIR, MRTP to
the Competition Commission of India on 11.05.2010 after the work of the MRTP
Commission was wound up. The Commission took up these five cases together and
after a perusal of the facts in these cases came to a prima facie view that there
appears to be a contravention of section 3(3) , 3(4) and 4 of the Competition Act.
The Commission therefore directed an investigation by the Director General under section 26(1) of the Competition Act. 7. The DDG took up the case and he gave notices to HDFC Ltd. and ICICI Bank.
He also examined the RBI regulations on the subject. The DDG found that home
loans are offered on fixed rate interest or floating rate interest. Under the floating
rate interest regime, the issue is that the interest rat can vary i.e. it can go up or
down. The fixing of home loan rate is based on the base prime lending rate (BPLR).
The issue of fixed and floating rate is governed by RBI's Monetary and Credit Policy
statement for 2000-01. RBI by this circular deregulated the fixing of interest rate and
the banks could fix their lending and deposit rates. The banks could not fix a lending
rate below the cost of funds. The DDG has reported that some banks starting giving
loans below their BPLR. The RBI carried out a study and found that lending and
fixing rates suffered from opacity and therefore they introduced a concept of base
rate system. 8. In its response to the DDG, ICICI Bank accepted that out of the five
complaints, three of them namely Shri A.K. Baviskar, Shri Charanjit Singh and
Shri Shiv Kumar Gupta had taken home loans from it. The bank stated that the
floating rate of interest was linked to the benchmark Prime Lending Rate (PLR) /
Floating Reference Rate (FRR) and that the interest rate varies with changes in
PLR/FRR. It was stated that the final rate offered to a customer was a function of
FRR and the margin associated with the loan. The margin contracted at the time of 3 the sanction remained constant over the entire period of the loan. It was stated that
interest rate on floating rate of interest was increased or decreased depending on
the fluctuations of the FRR. It was also stated that while fixing the floating rate the
following factors are taken into consideration:- (viii) Prevailing credit conditions and outlook for current demand. 9. On behalf of the ICICI Bank, it was submitted that as and when the interest
rate increased, it was passed on to the borrower by increasing the tenure of the loan
and not a higher equated monthly instalment (EMI). The details of the increase in
FRR between the period May 06 and April 09 was submitted. It was stated that
when the FRR decreased the benefit was passed on to the consumer. 10. As far as HDFC Ltd. is concerned, it accepted that it had given loans to
Shri V. Ramachandra Reddy and Ms. Swapna Muthukrishnan. It was stated on
behalf of the bank that interest calculation on all floating interest loan depends on the
Retail Prime Lending rates (RPLR) and spreads. RPLR is fixed on the basis of the
cost of funds, operating expenses minimum margin to cover regulatory requirement
of provisions/capital charge and profit margins. It was stated that the spread
depends on other factors such as timing of the loan, type of loan, risk perception of
the borrower, marginal cost of funds & tenure of the loan. It was also stated that
RPLR and the spread determined that rate of interest chargeable from a borrower. It
was also explained that the spread could not be unilaterally changed by the HDFC.
The details of interest charged to new and existing customers in the period
22.12.2008 to 07.05.2009 was furnished. 11. The DDG examined the submissions of the two banks and came to the
conclusion that the banks have two components in the interest charged on the
floating rate interest scheme. The components are benchmark lending rate and the
spread. The benchmark lending rate can vary i.e. increase or decrease as and when
there is a change brought in by the RBI. But the rate of spread cannot be changed.
The spread / margin can be negotiated or altered on payment of switching charges.
The DDG found non transparency and information asymmetry with reference to the
benchmark rate as well as spread. In fact on the same day, loans taken by two
different borrowers could carry different rates. To get over this opacity, now the RBI
has introduced a concept of base rate which can be passed on to old customers
also. 12. The DDG then examined the facts of the case with reference to the provisions
of section 3(3) of the Act. He found that as there was no agreement between the
banks section 3(3) was not applicable. The DDG is of the opinion that though there
was information asymmetry, there was no violation of section 3(3) of the Act. The
DDG also found no violation of Section 3(4) of the Act as according to him none of
the factors mentioned in the section were brought into play. DDG has examined the
market share of HDFC and ICICI and found that as their market share were 17%
and 13% respectively they cannot be taken to be dominant. He then examined the
other factors enumerated in Section 19(4) of the Act and found that none of these
factors and found that none of these factors are applicable to the facts of these five
cases. The DDG therefore did not find any contravention of the Competition Act . 13. After the receipt of the notice of the DG, notice was given to the information
providers and the two banks namely the ICICI bank and HDFC. Out of the five
information providers only Shri Shiv Kumar Gupta submitted a reply. He has stated
that the report of the DDG is a biased one and against natural justice favouring cartel
banks such as ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank. It is also the contention of Shri Gupta
that the figures given by the DDG were faulty, wrong and biased and were used to
favouring cartel members. It was argued that the methodology used was against the
public at large and it encouraged the cartel bankers so that they could run officially
the biggest fraud in the country under the umbrella of liberalization policy of the RBI.
It was stated that his data compiled from the RBI official records was not considered
by the DDG while preparing the report. In the view of Shri Gupta DDG knowingly 5 narrowed the area / scope of investigation for home loan ignoring overall market
position of the bankers in personal finance. According to Shri Gupta the RBI data
was a significant one showing cartelization structure of the banks. It was stated that
the report of the DDG is a biased one on the ground that the banks did not enjoy a
dominant position. It was therefore stated that the CCI should use its statutory
power in the larger interest of the consumers of the banks and that a broader
investigation in a transparent manner should be carried out about the cartelization of
the banks and their dominant position. It has been stated that all the other bankers
also follows the same practice due to the loose policy of the RBI. 14. ICICI bank in response to the notice issued by the CCI has stated that there is
no contravention of any provision of Competition Act specially in respect of
differential rate of interest for new customers qua existing customers. It was
therefore requested that as the DDG found no contravention of any of the provision
of the Act the notice should be withdrawn and the case should be closed. As far as
HDFC bank is concerned it was stated on its behalf that as the DDG had not found
contravention of any provision of the Act the inquiry should be closed. 15. All these five cases relate to a period when the provisions of section 3 and 4
were not on the statute. In fact the provisions of section 3 and 4 were brought into
force w.e.f. 20.05.2009. In the case of Shri V. Ramachandra Reddy the loan taken
from the HDFC has been paid as Shri Reddy switched his loan to another bank after
paying the prepayment penalty. This happened much before 20.05.2009. But as far
as the other cases are concerned, the home loan is still continuing and the practices
carried out by the banks are still continuing. The practices followed by the banks
even in the case of Shri Reddy are still continued by the banks. Therefore all the five
cases need to be considered. 16. The facts of the case are that the five information providers had taken home
loans from the two banks on a floating rate of interest. The practice followed by the
banks/HFCs in the home loan market are that home loan is given at a fixed rate of
interest or a floating rate of interest. Under the fixed rate of interest scheme, the
interest is fixed over the entire period of the loan. Under the floating rate of interest
scheme, the rate of interest is pegged to the market rate of interest i.e. they would
vary with the fluctuation of interest rate in the market. 17. The methodology of fixing interest by the two banks are similar and probably
the other banks/HFCs follow the same practice. The interest rate offered to a
customer is a function of Prime Lending Rate or Floating reference rate and margin /
spread. The spread / margin is worked out by considering the following factors (i) Profile of the borrower (salaried/self employed) & past behaviour of the
 customer. The margin/spread remains constant over the period of the loan though the
prime lending rate/floating reference rate could vary depending on the market
conditions. If someone wants to prepay the loans, he has to pay penalty for the
foreclosure of loans. Thus it becomes difficult for a borrower to prepay his loan and
shift to another bank which offers a better product or loan at a lower rate of interest.
Thus, a borrower cannot switch to another bank as the switching costs can be quite
high. 18. The main grouse of the five information providers is that though the market
rate of interest had dropped, ICICI Bank and HDFC were not willing to reduce the
interest. In fact in two of the cases i.e. in the case of Shri Reddy and Shri Shiv
Kumar Gupta the banks agreed to reduce the interest as and when they wanted to
shift the loan to another bank. Therefore in these two cases, the banks admitted in a
implied manner that they were overcharging their customers. But no benefit was
given to the borrowers with retrospective date and in this manner, the two banks
profited. The case of Shri Charanjit Singh shows that the proper information was not
provided by the banks the borrowers at the time of taking the loans. In the case of
Ms. Muthukrishnan, HDFC was charging interest from the new borrowers at 8.75%
but the old borrowers were charged interest at 11%. This is certainly discriminatory. 19. Inspite of these discriminatory and abusive practices the borrowers had to
silently bear them as they could shift to another bank only the paying switching
costs. The issue switching costs i.e. penalty for the prepayment of loans was
considered by me in the case of Neeraj Malhotra vs. Deutsch Bank & ors. Case No.
5 of 2005. Extracts of my orders in the said case are reproduced as under:- The economy in India was liberalized in 1991. Home loan concept was
 introduced in India and tax breaks were introduced for home loan takers. After
 the opening of the economy, the G.D.P. in India increased substantially and
 from 2003 to 2008, the G.D.P. growth was approx. 8.9%. Due to liberalization
 of the home loan market, increase in disposable income, the requirement for
 home loans increased and the home loan market grew by 43% between 2000
 and 2005. Many new banks and finance companies entered the home loan
 market. The market is very big and demand is so high that many more
 enterprises want to enter the market. 25. An economy would grow in the short run if consumer spending
 increases. If consumer spending increases the savings rate would go down.
 Savings rate increase in the long run may be beneficial but consumption
 spending in the short run is beneficial for the economy. Thus it is necessary to
 put surplus cash in the hands of the consumers. But the banks by having a
 prepayment fine on the consumers is decreasing the cash availability. Further,
 a cap has been put on the banks and other companies as far as housing loan is
 concerned. If a filip is given to housing by having cheap property prices and
 cheap loans, the housing industry would receive a boost. This in turn would
 lead to higher employment, higher industrial growth, higher growth of person
 income and increase of G.D.P. 8 26. It is therefore necessary that as India faces shortage of houses, the
home loan market should be expanded. Mobility in the market for the customer
should be encouraged. Competition in home loan banking is important in order
to ensure an efficient banking industry and should not be viewed as dangerous
to the banking sector. In fact in Norway mortgages are the main source of
income for customers constituting 75% of the total income. In India as well as
in various countries, the banks charge customers for terminating services. This
reduces the mobility of customers. The ability of the customers to switch banks
helps the competitors the benefits of a competitive banking market. Any
obstacle which reduces customers' ability to switch banks will correspondingly
reduce the competitive pressure on banks. High switching cost may result in
increased bank market power and enable the banks to extract extra rent from
the customers. High switching costs may also constitute barriers to entry as
they make it harder for new entrants to attract customers and hence discourage
new market entry. Further high switching cost may discourage product
innovation, as customers would be reluctant to switch to new products and
services. 27. The European Commission carried out a study of retail banking. Even
the EFTA Authority had carried out a study of retail banking in the EFTA
countries. The European Commission found potential competition concerns
and consumer harm in some of the areas such as list of coordinated behaviour
in the banks to the detriment of customer mobility through a non-transparent
treatment of certain products such as mortgages. There are some economists
who consider that banks form a big cartel but most of the economists are not of
this view. The European Commission observed that the mortgages generated
largest share of income in retail banking in European banks. It has also been
stated in the said report that before customers change banks he considers all
the factors which help him in switching banks. This would include switching
costs also. It was also observed by the Commission that switching costs in the
retail bank industry has three significant effects (i) it increases the bank market
power and this leads the bank to discriminate between new customers and old
customers. The bank would charge low charges to attract new customers and
once the customers are locked, the banks would charge higher prices which
may be in the form of switching costs. (ii) Switching costs served as an entry
barrier because it does not allow switching to consumer to bank with cheaper
and better product. If the switching costs are high it was uneconomic for new 9 entrants in the market to induce customer to switching. (iii) The third aspect was
it discourages product innovation. When a new product is introduced in the
market due to innovation and the switching costs are low the customer would
like to switch to the new product. But if the switching costs are high there would
be no reward and no customer would like to switch. In the EFTA report it has
been stated that in order to have the benefits of the competition in the banking
sector the customers should be able to choose their banks. Any obstacle that
reduces consumers' ability to switch banks would reduce the competitive
pressure on the banks. If closing charges are charged by bank this would
reduce the mobility of the customers. High level of switching cost in the
banking industry results in increasing the bank market power and enables
banks to extract extra rent form the customers. High switching costs also
constitute barriers to entry as it makes harder for new entrants to attract new
customers and hence it discourage new market entry. High switching costs
also discourage product innovation as customers would be reluctant to switch to
new products and services. The finding of the both European Commission and
EFTA authority are similar. 28. A study was also carried out by Amsterdam Centre for Law and
Economics. In this paper it has been mentioned that switching costs may be a
reason for consumers' immobility as they remain locked-in one supplier.
Switching costs also influence on behaviour as the firms should attract new
customers by charge low prices and in order to exploit captured customers.
The firms cannot discriminate between old and new customers due to high
switching costs they have been giving incentives to keep their prices high and
exploit their old customers instead of attracting new customers through lower
prices. Therefore, it has been stated in the report that switching costs played
an important role in consumers' decision. In another report the European
Commission had analyzed the switching costs in the electricity market. In this
report the Commission held that in the market of retail banking a policy of the
mobility of the competitors has got to be followed. 35. It is thus clear that the main aim of the banks or housing finance
companies is to find the customers and not allow them to switch to other
institutions. It also allows the banks to overcharge the customers as they are
giving loans to new customers at lower rate of interest. Because of these facts, 10 competition between the banks is killed and no new products would come and
no innovation would be introduced. This practice also does not allow new
banks/institutions with lower rate of interest to garner new business. Therefore,
by charging pre-payment penalty, the banks/institutions are following anti-
competitive practices which is having an appreciable adverse effect on
competition in India. 36. Another argument which has been advanced is that if the customers
prepay their loans what would the banks/HFCs do with the case which would be
available with them. The market of home loan in India is very large and there is
a very big shortage of houses in India. Further there is a cap placed on the
banks as far as housing loans are concerned. The banks/HFCs would be in a
position to loan the amount received as pre-payment to new loan creditors.
This in turn would lead to construction of new houses or the purchase of new
flats and would help in the economic development of India. 62. But before examining competition in the home loan market it is
necessary to examine the behaviour pattern of consumers i.e. behaviour
economics. Before a theory or hypothesis is formed, it is necessary to have
certain axioms. In economics, the axiom is that in a perfect market, a consumer
would make a rational choice which would increase his economic well being.
The question is as to how this rational choice can be made. This choice
depends on whether a person wants to improve his economic well being. It
also depends on the information which is available to person in the market.
This choice is dependent on the advertisements which flood any market, it
depends on brand value, it depends on the services which are given in the
market or it could depend on the perceived advantage to the consumer. The
consumer can suffer from processing overload. Consumer biases can set in
the processing of information. For a market to function properly a consumer
should be able to assess access and process information. Because of the
bulky information which the consumer has to go through before he enters in the
agreement he can enter into an agreement which is anticompetitive. This can
happen due to processing overload. The agreement may lead him to high
switching costs. It there are high switching costs, mobility of the consumers
would be affected. Thus, a new entrants would not get customers and
innovation would suffer. Even the allocative efficiency of the markets would
suffer. Competition Authorities such as the OFT and others thus realize that
behaviour economies plays a major role in the competition in the market. It is 11 recognized that agreements are not sacrosant as God's Ten Commandments.
Even if a consumer has signed the agreement, it could be due to misinformation
fed by the sellers of the products. Further, as discussed above, switching cost
are being recovered even if there was no such factor in the agreement. 63. In the background of these facts, this case has to be decided. The facts
are that the Indian home loan market is very large and is expanding at a very
fast pace because of the growth of G.D.P. at a rate nearly 9%. There is a
shortage of houses in the country and if the credit in the home loan market
increases, due to high pent up demand for loan, the gross domestic product of
the country would increase substantially. This in turn would give a boost to the
cement and steel industry mainly because housing contributes nearly 6% to 7%
to the G.D.P. of India. 64. But the banking industry and the home finance companies have
introduced the concept of fines on the foreclosure of loans before the loans
come to an end. When HDFC entered this segment of home loans in 1978,
there was no penalty on the prepayment of loans. When competition came in
the market in the form of L.I.C. Housing Finance in 1993, HDFC introduced the
concept of penalty on the foreclosure of loans. L.I.C Housing finance
introduced the system of penalty in 1995. National Housing Bank which is the
regulator in the area of home finance and which lends to banks/HFCs
introduced the concept of penalties in 1997. ICICI Bank which entered this field
later introduced the concept of penalties on prepayment in 2001. The PSU
banks entered the field of home loan at a later date and initially they did not
charge any penalty. But after the meeting of the banks in September, 2003 the
P.S.U. banks started charging penalties varying from 0.5% to 2%.
Subsequently, many of the banks did not levy penalties from customers who
prepaid the loans from their own funds. But if the loans were prepaid after
taking loans from another bank, the banks levied penalty. Incidentally,
according to a report of ICRA, HDFC and SBI have a market share of nearly
17% in the home loan market. ICICI Bank has a share of 13%. Even LIC
Housing is a significant player in the market. 67. During the course of hearing of the banks, it was conceded by some of
the banks that the concept of penalties for the foreclosure of home loans was
introduced because the banks did not want to lose customers who could have
migrated to banks giving loans at a lower rate. They thus wanted to reduce the 12 mobility of consumers and reduce their choice. The banks also wanted to
discipline the consumers. The banks wanted to extract rent out of the
consumers by charging the penalty as they perceived losses. But what losses
they had incurred to would have incurred was not worked out. The banks were
also not aware of how much they had earned out of the prepayment penalties.
The data was not available because home loans constituted a very small
percentage of their total loan portfolio. In fact even today S.B.I. which is the
largest bank in the country, has a total home loan portfolio of 13%. Most of the
banks talked of asset liability mismatch when the consumers prepaid their
loans. But no material to support this claim was furnished. On the contrary, as
worked out above no loss is suffered by a bank if a consumer prepays his loan.
In fact the prepayment enlarges and deepens the home loan market because
there is an insatiable demand for home loans in India. I have already dealt with
the arguments raised by the banks. 68. In view of the above noted factual position, the issues are to be
examined with reference to the Competition Act, 2002 . The question here is of
switching charges which a consumer has to pay in the form of prepayment
penalties. There is no doubt that by charging pre-payment penalty the banks
reduced the choice of the customers. As a consequence of the prepayment
penalty, a customer cannot shift from one bank to another. Further when a new
bank enters the market it would not be able to get customers from the other
banks because the customer would not like to shift in view of the penalties
which he would have to pay if he shifts to a new bank. Thus by levying the pre-
payment penalties banks are killing competition in the home loan market. This
also leads to decrease in the allocative efficiency of the market and a reduction
of innovation. Under the provisions of Section 3(1) of the Act, no supplier of
goods and services can enter into an agreement which causes or is likely to
cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition. In all the cases where the
banks enter into an agreement with a consumer for home loans, the banks have
envisaged penalties provided the consumer pre-pays his loans. As already
discussed the levy of switching charges in the form of pre-payment penalties
causes an appreciable adverse effect on competition. Therefore, under Section
3(2) of the Act of these agreements entered into by the banks are anti-
competitive agreements and therefore void. 69. Before declaring an agreement to be void the provisions mentioned in Section 19(3) of the Act have to be looked into. An appreciable adverse effect 13 on competition under Section 3 cannot be determined without regard to the
facts enumerated in Section 19(3) of the Act which are: (iii) Foreclosure of competition by hindering entry into the market. by means of production or distribution of goods or provision of
 service. In this particular case for the foreclosure of the loans, a barrier has been
created for new entrant in the market as no consumer would shift to the new
entrant as he would suffer a loss as prepayment penalties would have to be
paid. Competition has also effected as hindrance is caused to the consumers
by the levy of the penalties when a person shifts to another bank. The next
issue is the accrual of benefits to the customers. When pre-payment penalty is
levied there is no benefit to the consumer. In fact there is a decrease of
benefits to the consumer as he has to pay penalty. Further the choice of the
customer decreases. Therefore, the provisions of clauses (a), (c) and (d) are
applicable to the facts of this case. Therefore, by the levy of the switching
charges by the banks an appreciable adverse effect on competition within India
is created. Therefore the agreement by the banks with the consumers for the
levy of penalty for the foreclosure of loans is an anti-competitive act and
therefore void in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(1) and 3(2) of the
Act. 70. The provisions of Section 3(4) may also be applicable to this case
because home loans enterprises operate in the home loan markets whereas
consumers who take a loan from the home loan enterprises operate in the
market of construction or purchase of premises from realtors. Thus, the banks
and customers operate in different markets. By entering into an agreement
where there clauses for the levy of penalty for the foreclosure of loans an
exclusive supply agreement is entered into by the banks which its customers.
This restriction placed on the customers by the banks also creates an adverse
effect on competition in India as the customer is unable to switch to a bank with 14 better and innovative products. It also debars new banks to enter the home
loan market even though they may be having better products. 71. The D.G. has carried out investigation in this case and he has found a
contravention by the banks/HFCs under Section 3(3) (b) of the Act. The findings of the DG are based on following facts/evidences:- Section 3(3) of the Act deals with the following situations:- If the above conditions are satisfied, it shall be presumed to have an
appreciable adverse effect on competition. They are deemed to be in per se
violation of Section 3 and the onus is on the party to disapprove this claim. The classes of parties to an agreement dealt with by section 3(3) are;
enterprises, associations of enterprises; persons or associations of persons and
they could act in any combination. It is that they are to be an association of 15 persons or enterprises of services. Where the association of persons or
enterprises is publicly identified as a group with a unity of purpose they are
named as Cartel. However, before applying this section, it is important to understand the
definition of following "terms" of the provision. But before reaching a conclusion that the provisions of section 3(3) of
the Act are attracted in this case the most important thing to find out is:- As per Section 2(b) of the Competition Act, 2002, "Agreement includes
any arrangement or understanding or action in concert- (i) Whether or not, such arrangement, understanding or action is
 formal or in writing or, (ii) Whether or not, such arrangement, understanding or action is
 intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings. This means that in order to fall under this definition, a concerted action
on the part of enterprises or persons is a pre-requisite. Even when party to
such an arrangements do not intend to create any legally enforceable mutual
duties and liabilities, it shall be considered as an agreement under this act. In Technip S.A Vs S.M.S holding private Ltd. (2005) 5 SCC 465, the
Court observed that the term "agreement" covers an arrangement or
understanding which may be informal as well as formal. No written proofs of
agreements are required, as writing has been done away with. The definition is designed in such a way as to produce a vast and
sweeping coverage for joint and concerted anti-competitive actions. There is no
need for an explicit agreement in cases of conspiracy where joint and
collaborative action is pervasive in the initiation, execution and fulfillment of the
plan- United States Vs General Motors 384 US 127. It has been a contentious issue as to what constitutes an agreement to
come within the ambit of competition enquiry. In CFI Judgment in Volksawagen
AG Vs Commission (2003), it has been held that there is no need for an explicit
agreement in writing but there should be consensus between the parties
concerned also referred to as meeting of minds or concurrence of wills. It has further been held in Commission vs. Bayer AG (2004) 4 CMLR 13,
that it is sufficient that the parties to the agreement have expressed there joint
intention to conduct themselves in the market in a specific manner. As regards
the form in which the common intention is expressed, it is sufficient for a
stipulation to be the expression of the parties' intention to behave on the market
in accordance with its terms. However, there have been practical difficulties to establish the existence
of an anti-competitive agreement between the firms. The fact is the firms
engaging in anti-competitive behaviour have developed sophisticated
mechanics of hiding their behaviour so that they escape the liability under the
anti trust laws. Lord Denning in RRTA Vs W. H. Smith & Sons Ltd. have
observed "People who combine together to keep up prices do not shout it from
the house tops. They keep it quite. They make their own arrangements in the
cellar where no one can see. They will not put anything into writing nor even
into words. A nod or wink will do." From the above definition of "agreement", it can be concluded that if
following conditions are there, then it can be said that there is an agreement:-- Though the Circular dated 10th September, 2003 issued by the IBA was not
binding on any banks and it was optional for any bank to impose pre-penalty 19 charge, it can not be denied that the practice adopted by most of the banks is a
concerted action on the part of the banks in view of the settled legal position
discussed as above. These banks are indulged in the restrictive practice as the
consumers are not allowed to switch over from one bank to another because of
this prepayment penalty clause. Switching costs are costs that existing
customers have to incur when changing suppliers. Customer mobility and
choice is essential to stimulate retail-banking competition but, here, consumers
are tied to their bankers due to the existence of switching costs i.e., pre-
payment penalty charge. Secondly, the loans were provided to those customers by the banks on
floating rate of interest were made to understand that the rates will fluctuate as
per the prevailing conditions of the market, however, in practice, it is observed
that interest rates were revised upward and not downward. Whenever there
was condition in the market to lower the interest rate, lower rate of interest were
being offered to the new customers and the existing customers were not being
benefited. Differential treatment were being given to the new loan customers by the
banks by providing very lower interest rate on loan amount in comparison to the
existing loan consumers. If the existing customer asked banks to lower the
interest rate at par with the new customers, it was conditioned by the banks to
pay pre-payment penalty/ foreclosure amount on the outstanding loan, and then
to apply for fresh loan. If any customer decides to pre-pay/foreclose the loans, they had to pay
a certain percentage as penalty amount i.e. normally 2%-5% on the outstanding
loan amount to clear their account. Is not this practice anti-competitive, and the
practice is limiting the provision of services? 74. Now, what is to be seen by the Commission? Under Section 19(3) of
Competition Act, 2002, the Commission, while determining whether an
agreement has an appreciable effect on competition under section 3 , is required
to consider the all or any of the following factors: - So, what Commission is to determine is that due to the practices
followed by the banks are there any entry barrier is being created? Is the
competition is being foreclosed by hindering entry into the market or due to
such practice any benefit is being accrued to the consumers? Because, the
principle objective of competition law is to maintain and encourage competition
as a vehicle to promote economic efficiency and maximize consumer welfare.
The focal point of competition should be the actual and / or potential business
conduct of firms in a given market and not on the absolute or relative size of
firms. What needs to be seen by the commission is that whether a firm can
exercise "market power", i.e. engage in business practices which substantially
lessen or prevent competition. The relevant product market in this case is
"retail market of home loan financing" and the relevant geographic market is
whole of India. 75. The case was, therefore, examined from the point of view of Section
19(3) and it is found that:- 4% penalty. Moreover, at least in an increasing interest rate scenario,
 the lender is actually benefited by the prepayment because it should
 have raised the money at cheaper rate and now it can lend it at much
 higher rate, so there is no reason to levy a charge on the prepayment.
 Secondly, ALM is not account specific and it matches the tenors of all
 deposits with all loans. This aggregation effect should render the impact,
 if any, to an insignificant amount. (iii) Large corporate prepay hundreds of crores of loans (which should
 cause bigger ALM issue for banks) whenever they get cheaper funds,
 but it is a common knowledge that the banks do not charge any
 prepayment penalty. Moreover, the same corporate are given funds
 below PLR rates. It goes to prove that loss due to ALM is not the reason
 to charge prepayment penalty. It is mainly to restrict small borrowers
 from choosing a cheaper loan. (iv) The prepayment penalty is clearly to stop a borrower from going to a
 competitor for a cheaper interest rate or for better service. Through the
 pre-payment of loan, the principal money is repaid well in advance to the
 banks through foreclosure. Even if it is paid through switching over from
 one bank to another, the banks get their principal money returned well
 before the tenure and this provides opportunity to the banks to further
 pump money in the market. (v) Prepayment penalty is in effect an enhancement of interest rate from
 back door. The lenders advertise a lower interest rate but in effect it is
 higher due to such penal charges. (vi) At the time of sanction of loans the lenders recover processing and
 other charges over and above the interest charge which is sufficient to
 cover all their risks plus a reasonable profit. There is no reason to
 impose prepayment penalty to the tune of 1-4% of outstanding amount. (vii) Most borrowers fail to reckon and compare the exit loads mentioned by
 the lender because they are not clear when they will need to repay the
 loan and what will the outstanding at that time. This situation is exploited
 by the lender. (viii) There appears to be no financial calculation to establish that
 prepayment charge of 1-4% is reasonable and justified as the concept of 22 'time value for money' is not recognized by these Banks. As the money
 received today has better value than the same amount of money
 received in future. If we calculate the EMI and the 'time value for money'
 it will be evident that banks are unreasonably charging foreclosure
 amount as the consumer is bound to pay more first in terms of interest
 portion in the initial months of the payments and later he is made to pay
 in terms of pre-payment charges, if he decides to foreclose for better
 options. This practice is fleecing the consumers and also it is not
 generating any economic value and restricting the consumer to exercise
 the right of freedom to choose better financial options for the loan. (ix) Moreover, the practice of pre-payment penalty on loans is not helping
 the banks to be more service efficient and competitive on the interest
 rate being charged on loans to the existing customers as banks are sure
 of their secured customers due to the anti competitive agreement of pre-
 payment penalty. (x) There has been a tacit agreement among banks to follow the practice of
 pre-payment penalty and foreclosure fees on loans as to hold back their
 customers from switching over to other banks. Since all lenders have
 imposed prepayment penalty, it indicates of a concerted action leading
 to suspicion of cartelization. In fact, many lenders have already admitted
 that this practice is being adopted by them to stop their customers to
 switch over from one bank to another. (xi) Even if it has not all the elements of cartel, which is prohibited under section 3(3) of the competition Act, 2002, customers were prevented
 from significantly reducing their property debts as it represented the
 most substantial household and repayment accounted for 50% of their
 disposable income. This restricts competition, as it restricts a consumer
 to avail banking services of another bank which is ready to offer the loan
 at lower interest rates. 20. The issue is here again of a practice carried out by the banks. The issue of
practice has already been discussed in the case of Neeraj Malhotra vs. Deutsche
Bank and the extracts of the said judgement is reproduced above. In the section
3(3) there is a reference practice carried on which limits are control provisions of
services i.e. according to the section 3(3)(b) of the Act. In this particular case proper 23 information at the time of taking loan is not provided to the borrowers and this leads
to any information asymmetry. Further, as the old borrowers are charged at a higher
rate of interest as compared to the new borrowers. The main aim is to get more
borrowers and then capture them. Subsequently, the interest rates of the new
borrowers are also increased. Thus there is not only an information asymmetry but
the banks tried to control the provision of services. As and when a customer wants
to switch the banks then the banks agree to give a discount or charge lower rate of
interest. Further, even though the market interests goes down and as the loans
were on floating rate of interest, the banks are obliged to reduce the interest but it is
not done. Even if somebody wants to shift to another bank he can only do so after
paying penalty for foreclosure of loans. Thus the penalty acts as a disincentive for
switching of banks for switching of loans from one bank to another. There is also
lack of transparency when the loan is sanctioned to a borrower. A number of factors
considered when the interest rate offered to a borrower at the time of taking of a loan
is offered. The factors have already been discussed above and there is no need to
mention them again. Each of the factors should have explained by the banks to the
borrower at the time of getting the loan and this is never done. In fact two borrowers
on the same date can be offered different rates depending on a perception of the
banks of borrowers. As no transparency is there in these transactions and a
customer has no choice, it has an appreciable adverse effects on Competition in
India. A borrower again switch banks and this act has a disincentive against the
growth of the loan market and stop other competitors from getting customers in the
long run as many of the borrowers are captured. Thus there is a violation of section
3(3) of the Act. 21. The above discussions shows that some other factors in section 19(3) of the
Competition Act are attracted such as the practice followed by the banks: 22. The DDG has stated that there is no case under section 4 of the Competition
Act. Section 4 of the Competition Act is about abuse of dominant position. The
finding of the DG that there was no case for dominance for either of the case is not
correct. In the explanation to section 4 dominant position has been defined as a
position of strength, enjoyed by an enterprise, in the relevant market in India which
enables it to affect its consumers in its favour. In this case, before these five
persons took the loan from the two banks, they were in a competitive market where
lot of banks and other home finance companies were in a position to offer them
loans. But after they signed the agreements with one of the banks then they were
out of the competitive market and entered in a different market. This market may be
called as a loan recovery market or an aftermarket. If one looks clause (g) of section
19(4) of the Competition Act, this dominant position can be acquired either through
the statute or being a Government company or being a public sector company or
"otherwise". In this particular case the banks got the dominant position by virtue of
the agreement with the consumers signed with the bank at the time of taking the
home loan. Thereafter the banks were in a position to affect their consumers in their
favour. Thus the banks were in a position of dominance as far as their consumers
are concerned as they were tied to them for a period of time. In the consequence
the banks who are obliged to decrease the interest rate when in the market fell did
not reduce the interest and charged the consumers at the old rates. On the other
hand, in order to get more customers the banks were giving them home loans at a
lower rate of interest. There is no material to hold that the banks were giving new
loans at a low rate of interest and were incurring a loss. The action of the banks is
therefore unfair and discriminatory and therefore hit by the provisions of section
4(2)(a)(ii). 23. A case came up the U.S. Supreme Court known as the Kodak case. In this
particular case the Supreme Court of the USA came up with the concept of
aftermarket where a consumer can be abused. This ratio of Supreme Court is
incorporated in our Act by legislation which defines dominance. 24. I have already indicated that the banks have abused dominance in terms of
clause (g) of section 19(4) of the Competition Act. The other factors under section
19(4) have to be got examined with reference to the facts of this case. There is no 25 doubt that the size and resources of the enterprises i.e. the banks in this case is very
large compared to the resources of the consumers and therefore they are in a
position of influence consumers in their favour. Consumers are totally dependent on
these banks as and when they take loans from these banks. Even the social
obligations i.e. equity and lower cost of credit to the borrowers has not been followed
by the banks. This reduced the economic surplus of the consumers and as a
consequence it leads to lower economic development. Therefore the other factors in
the section 19(4) are applicable to the facts of this case. 25. In this particular case the banks were willing to lower the rate of interest as
and when the consumers wanted to switch loans to a different bank. As already
discussed above the behaviour of the banks are hit by the provisions of section 3(3) and section 4 of the Competition Act. Therefore the agreement between the banks
and the consumers are hit by section 3(1) of the Competition Act as the said
agreements led to an appreciable adverse affect on competition within India.
Therefore such agreements are void in accordance with section 3(2) of the
Competition Act. 26. To some up the two banks have contravened of provisions of section 3(1) , 3(2) , 3(3) and section 4 of the Competition Act. 27. By the virtue of section 27 of the Competition Act the banks are hereby
directed (i) to stop the practice by which they charge higher rate of interest to the old
 borrowers and low rate of interest to the new borrowers. The banks can not
 charge discriminatory interest rate when loans are given to a consumer. (ii) the banks are directed that they should decrease the interest whenever the
 rate of interest goes down and they cannot take the plea that the public
 lending rate has not come down and therefore the interest rate is not being
 reduced. (R. Prasad)
 Member, CCI 26