Meenakshi Madan Rai, J. 1. The Petitioners are aggrieved by the impugned Order

 dated 17-12-2019 issued by the Additional District Magistrate-cum-

 Additional District Collector, Headquarters, East District, at

 Gangtok (Respondent No.3), in COI Case No.27/DM/East of 2018

 (Nim Pincho Bhutia vs. Bhim Bahadur Kami), whereby the

 Certificate of Identification (COI) issued to each of the Petitioners

 was cancelled. The Judgment/Final Order dated 13-10-2020,

 issued by the Appellate Authority, Land Revenue & Disaster

 Management Department (Respondent No.2), upheld the impugned WP(C) No.33 of 2020 2 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others Order supra in Appeal Case No.01 of 2020. The Petitioners are

before this Court, assailing both. 2(i). A brief factual narrative is essential for a just

determination of the matter. The Petitioners claim to be

descendants of one Late Gumaney Kami and his wife Late Echu

Maya, the Petitioner No.1 being the son of the said persons, while

the Petitioners No.2 to 6 claim to be their grandsons, being the

sons of the Petitioner No.1. Gumaney Kami undisputedly was a

Sikkimese, holding a Sikkim Subject Certificate (SSC) bearing

Sikkim Subject Register Serial No.32, Volume Number II, under

Block Sajong, issued on 06-11-1967. As per the Petitioners,

around 1943-44, Gumaney married Echu Maya and from the

wedlock had four sons and two daughters. From the four sons, two

passed away while the youngest son lives in Tadong, Gangtok, the

Petitioner No.1 is the other son. That, Gumaney Kami was a

Scheduled Caste of the Sikkimese Nepali community known

variously by the surnames of „Biswakarma‟, „Lohars‟ or „Sunars‟.

That, „Kamis‟ also have several „Thars‟ (sub-castes) and Gumaney

Kami belonged to the „Rasaily‟ (sub-caste). (ii) The Petitioner No.1 said to be an illiterate villager and

a Blacksmith by profession applied for a COI in the year 1998

which was issued to him being COI No.2147/DC/E, dated 06-10-

1998, by the Respondent Authorities on the recommendation of the

Gram Panchayat and Police verification, as mandated by the

relevant Notification. Based on the COI of the Petitioner No.1,

COIs were issued to the Petitioners No.2, 3 and 6 on 30-08-2006

and Petitioners No.4 and 5 on 31-08-2006. That, on 24-12-2007,

the Petitioner No.4 lost his official documents including the COIs of WP(C) No.33 of 2020 3 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others all the Petitioners upon which he immediately lodged an FIR in the

Sadar Police Station and the concerned Authorities reissued COIs

to the Petitioners on 27-12-2007 on their request. (iii) That, on 29-08-2018 the Respondent No.5 and on 04-

09-2018 the Respondent No.6, filed Complaints, respectively,

against the Petitioner No.1 alleging that the Petitioner No.1

fraudulently obtained his COI. A single case based on the two

Complaints was evidently registered by Respondent No.3 against

the Petitioner No.1, being COI Case No.27/DM/East of 2018 and on

11-10-2018 the Petitioner No.1 was summoned to appear before

the Respondent No.3 on 24-10-2018. The Petitioner No.4

represented Petitioner No.1 before Respondent No.3. A copy each

of the written Complaints were allegedly not made over to him nor

was he afforded an opportunity to file his response thereof. The

Respondent No.3 after examining witnesses at a "Panchayat Ghar" However, the Respondents No.2 and 3 while passing the impugned

Orders completely ignored the findings of the Final Report of the

Commission dated 18-08-2018 which was duly accepted by the

State Government on 27-09-2018 and submitted before this Court

on 02-11-2018 in the said PIL giving it a closure. Hence, the

prayers in the Writ Petition to issue a Rule calling upon the

Respondents to show cause as to why; (a) A writ or order or directions or declaration in the
 nature of Certiorari or any other appropriate writ
 should not be issued declaring the impugned orders
 dated 17.12.2019 [Annexure P-9] passed by the
 Respondent No.3 and 13.10.2020 (Annexure P-10)
 passed by the Appellate Authority (Respondent No.2)
 cancelling the COIs of the petitioners to be illegal,
 arbitrary, erroneous, perverse, bias, in violation of the
 principles of natural justice, against the law and
 without any jurisdiction or authority of law. (b) A writ or order or direction or declaration in the
 nature of Mandamus or any other appropriate writ
 should not be issued declaring that the COI of
 Petitioner No.1 having been in the list of 31,188
 doubtful cases of COI of East District at serial no.5354
 and having been enquired into and verified by the
 Commission headed by the retired Judge of this
 Hon‟ble Court Hon‟ble Mr. Justice Malay Sengupta
 (retd) vide the Final Report dated 18.08.2018 and
 accepted by the State Government on 27.09.2018
 and filed before this Hon‟ble Court in WP(PIL) No.06
 of 2015 in the matter of Biraj Adhikari versus State of WP(C) No.33 of 2020 5 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

 Sikkim and Others, to be legal and valid in terms of
 the Final Report and not to interfere with the same. (c) Issue an appropriate Writ, Order or Direction
 declaring the inquiry conducted by the Respondent
 No.3 Additional District Magistrate, HQ to be illegal,
 against the rules and Government Notifications
 Annexure P-2, P-3, P-4, P-5 and without jurisdiction
 and authority of law. (d) A writ or order or directions or declaration in the
 nature of Mandamus or any other appropriate writ or
 order or direction should not be issued declaring that
 the Petitioners under the law are entitled to the COIs
 issued to them by the Respondent No.4. (e) A writ or order or directions or declaration in the
 nature of Prohibition or any other appropriate writ,
 order or direction should not be issued prohibiting the
 official Respondents No.1, 2, 3 and 4 their servants
 and agents from further enquiring into the COIs of the
 petitioners, on the basis of the said complaints of
 Respondent No.5 & 6, in view of the enquiry, scrutiny,
 verification already conducted by an independent
 Agency namely, the Commission headed by the
 retired Judge of this Hon‟ble Court which has found
 the COI issued to the Petitioner No.1 to be "verified
 and found correct" vide their „Final Report‟ dated
 18.08.2018 filed before this Hon‟ble Court on
 01.11.2018 by the State Government in WP(PIL)
 No.06 of 2015 in the matter of Biraj Adhikari versus
 State of Sikkim and Others . (f) Pass an ad interim ex-parte order staying further
 operation of the impugned orders dated 17.12.2019
 [Annexure P-9] passed by the Respondent No.3 and
 13.10.2020 (Annexure P-10) passed by the Appellate
 Authority (Respondent No.2) cancelling the COIs of
 the petitioners as the said order is yet to be executed
 and to restrain the official respondents from giving
 further effect to and acting in terms of the said
 impugned orders. (g) And upon cause or causes that may be shown and
 after hearing the parties as well as on perusal of
 records be pleased to make the Rule absolute and / or
 pass such other further order / orders as this Hon‟ble
 Court may deem fit and proper in the interest of
 justice. 3. Respondents No.1, 2, 3 and 4 contested the Petition

and in a joint return averred that Respondent No.5 in her

Complaint alleged that many fake COIs had been issued to

individuals claiming to be descendants of Gumaney Kami, while the

Respondent No.6 claimed that the Petitioner No.1 had fraudulently

acquired COI for himself and his sons claiming to be the son of WP(C) No.33 of 2020 6 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others Gumaney Kami. That, copies of the Complaints were made over to

the Petitioner No.1 and in order to ensure a fair trial, on 24-09-

2019 accompanied by the Court Peshkar, Respondent No.3 visited

the "Panchayat Ghar" at Sajong, East Sikkim and examined the

local public and senior citizens of the area. That, the Petitioner

No.1 fraudulently obtained Panchayat recommendation in the year

1998 from Naitam-Nandok Gram Panchayat on a misrepresentation

of facts. The Panchayat which in the first instance lacked

jurisdiction to issue the recommendation as Gumaney Kami‟s name

was recorded under the Sajong Block and not under Naitam-

Nandok. That, the Petitioner No.1 is not the son of Gumaney Kami

as neither his nor his mother‟s name are found to be recorded in

the Register of Sikkim Subjects Certificate. That, the Writ Petition

thereby deserves a dismissal. 4. Respondent No.5, a Panchayat President in Sajong

Ward, East District, in her response averred that she came to learn

that the Petitioners had procured fake COIs, on the basis of queries

made to the previous Panchayat Members who informed her that

they had never issued any recommendation for issuance of COI in

favour of the Petitioners. It thus transpired that the Petitioners

had fraudulently procured the COIs which bore variations in the

names and titles of the Petitioners. While Petitioner No.2 and the

Petitioner No.6 have an age gap of almost 13 years between them,

but have all applied for COIs on the same day. That, there were

no independent identifiers of the Petitioners during the

preparations of the COI and the daughters of the Petitioner No.1

evidently had no COIs. The SCC records do not bear the name of

the Petitioner No.1 and only the names of two daughters of WP(C) No.33 of 2020 7 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others Gumaney Kami were found recorded therein, thus the Writ Petition

being without merit deserves a dismissal. 5. The Respondent No.6 who belongs to Swayem, North

Sikkim, in his Counter-Affidavit stated that he gathered information

along with Respondent No.5 to the effect that the Petitioners had

fraudulently represented themselves as legal heirs of Late

Gumaney Kami and procured two sets of fake COIs. That, records

reveal that one Kaziman Kami resident of Sajong Block had two

sons, namely, Chabilal Kami and Gumaney Kami. Gumaney Kami

in turn had two family members, namely, Suk Maya Kamini born

on 09-03-1954 and Birda Maya Kamini born on 09-10-1960 whose

names are reflected in the SSC Register under Block Sajong.

Gumaney Kami in fact lived with a widow and her five children

from her previous marriage, thus the Petitioner No.1 not being the

son of Gumaney Kami had impersonated himself as such and

obtained a COI in 1998. Based on this fake COI, the Petitioners

No.2 to 6 illegally obtained COIs by misleading the concerned

Authorities. The grounds set out in the Writ Petition being

untenable it deserves to be dismissed. 6. Rejoinders were filed by the Petitioners to the Counter-

Affidavits of all the Respondents wherein it was inter alia averred

that the Complaint of Respondent No.5 was only to the extent that

many fake COIs had been issued to individuals claiming to be

descendants of Gumaney Kami but there was no specific or direct

allegation against the Petitioners. That, Respondent No.6 was not

a resident of the area and had no personal information about

Gumaney Kami. That both Respondent No.5 and Respondent No.6

in their Affidavits failed to disclose their source of information. WP(C) No.33 of 2020 8 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others 7(i) Learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioners drew the

attention of this Court to the Government Notification No.66/

Home/95, dated 22-11-1995. It was contended that the

Respondents have agitated the contention that the Petitioner No.1

had obtained his COI on the basis of the recommendation from the

Naitam-Nandok Gram Panchayat whereas the name of Gumaney

Kami, on the basis of whom the COIs were obtained, was recorded

in Sajong. It was urged that in fact the concerned Notification

does not specify that the Panchayat recommendation is to be

obtained from a particular Panchayat Block therefore the

Petitioners obtained the recommendations from the Panchayat of

the area of which they were residents. Besides both Naitam-

Nandok and Sajong fall under the East District and no error

emanates in the issuance of the COIs by the East District Authority

under whose jurisdiction both the above mentioned Gram

Panchayats fall. The COI issuing Authorities also raised no

objection in this context at the time of issuance of the COIs. That,

the Notification dated 22-11-1995 (supra) was partially amended

on 27-09-1996 vide Notification No.57/Home/96 where inter alia

the words "after proper police verification" in Paragraph 1 were

inserted after the words "with such recommendations". Thus,

pursuant to the above modification, in addition to Panchayat

recommendation, Police verification was also required for obtaining

COI. The Notification did not mention the particular branch of the

Police Department to which the task of such verification was

entrusted, all that the Notification required was verification by the

Police, irrespective of the branch. That, in the Petitioners‟ case,

the Special Branch of the Police Department had carried out the WP(C) No.33 of 2020 9 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others verification and submitted their report to the Authorities issuing the

COI, who on due consideration of the report along with the

Panchayat recommendation, issued the COI to the Petitioners No.1

to 6. That, when the Special Branch undertook the verification,

they were aware that Gumaney Kami was from Sajong and that

the Panchayat recommendation had been obtained by the

Petitioner No.1 from Naitam-Nandok Block, which the Police did not

consider irregular or erroneous. No reasons have been forwarded

by the Respondents No.5 and 6 or for that matter by the State-

Respondents as to why the verification of the Special Branch of the

Police Department, a State Agency, should be disbelieved at this

juncture when it was considered valid at the relevant time of

issuance of COI. Further, on the loss of the COIs the documents

were reissued to the Petitioners No.1 to 6 on 27-12-2007 without

any qualms or allegations of fraud. Learned Senior Counsel also

sought to clarify that the Petitioner No.1 in the year 2011 obtained

his Aadhaar Card, where his date of birth is recorded as "10-02-

1949" which is his actual date of birth, which was erroneously

shown as "39 years" in the year 1998 instead of "49 years". The

error occurred for the reason that the Petitioner is an illiterate

villager. (ii) That, the Respondent No.5 alleged that there was

variation in the titles of the Petitioner No.1 and his alleged

progeny, as their surnames were variously recorded as „Kami‟,

„Biswakarma‟, „Rasaily‟. It was urged that „Kamis‟ are also known

as „Biswakarma‟, „Lohar‟ or „Sunar‟ and use surnames

interchangeably which has withstood the test of the Panchayat

recommendation and Police verification. The allegation of the WP(C) No.33 of 2020 10 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others Respondent No.5 is thus erroneous, presumably based on lack of

knowledge. That, given that Respondent No.5 is only 42 years of

age it is unbelievable that she was aware of the facts as given in

her Counter-Affidavit. In the verification clause she has stated that

the contents of her Counter-Affidavit are true to the best of her

knowledge without disclosing the source of her information. (iii) That, the Respondent No.6 is a resident of Swayem,

North Sikkim, but set out maliciously to gather information about

Late Gumaney Kami who hailed from Sajong Rumtek in the East

District, which indicates his mala fides. The Respondent No.6 is

aged about 32 years, but he claims to have knowledge of the

alleged fact that Gumaney Kami was born in 1925, had a younger

brother and left his native village at around 45 years of age in

search of work and stayed at Bhusuk Busty, Sikkim where he

subsequently died. He has not revealed his source of information.

That, such facts cannot be to his knowledge. It was alleged by the

Respondent No.6 that many others have obtained COI

impersonating themselves as the sons of Gumaney Kami when

such facts have no relevance to the instant Writ Petition. (iv) It was next contended that a perusal of the impugned

Order dated 17-12-2019 nowhere divulges that Respondent No.3

had made over a copy each of the Complaints to the Petitioner

No.4 to enable him to effectively defend the Petitioner‟s case

thereby casting aside the principles of natural justice. The

Petitioner No.4 who appeared on behalf of the Petitioner No.1 was

not even represented by a Counsel which fact was ignored by

Respondent No.3 who passed the impugned Order without

considering that the documents of the Petitioner No.1 had already WP(C) No.33 of 2020 11 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others passed the dual tests of Panchayat recommendation and Police

verification and instead relied on the unsubstantiated allegations of

Respondents No.5 and 6, with no new facts brought to the fore by

them. That, the Counter-Affidavit filed by the State-Respondents

indicates that Gumaney Kami was born in the year 1925 and the

names of his daughters are also recorded in the same document

(Annexure R4/4) thereby providing proof of his marriage contrary

to the allegation of Respondent No.6 that he was unmarried. The

Respondent No.3 categorised the Petitioner‟s octogenarian witness

as unreliable on grounds that he fumbled with facts, however his

statement to Respondent No.3 regarding ownership of land by

Gumaney Kami at Sajong was substantiated by Annexure P19,

which revealed such ownership, thus proving the bias attitude of

Respondent No.3 who for his part exceeded his jurisdiction by

threatening to penalize the witness, for collusion with the

Petitioners, when such collusion was not established. That, the

Respondent No.3 also acted beyond his jurisdiction in visiting the

"Panchayat Ghar", at Sajong on 24-09-2019, to examine witnesses

when no such procedure is contemplated in the Notifications

pertaining to issuance of COI. Respondent No.3 could not act as

an Investigator, Prosecutor and the Judge in the matter while at

the same time affording no opportunity to the Petitioner to cross-

examine the witnesses thereby revealing malice in law. The

evidence of all four witnesses examined by Respondent No.3 are

unreliable as according to them Gumaney Kami had no landed

property which is belied by Annexure P19. That, the other

witnesses examined by Respondent No.3 sought to prove that

Gumaney Kami was unmarried and had no landed property all of WP(C) No.33 of 2020 12 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others which are belied by documentary evidence which establishes to the

contrary. That, these circumstances are indicative of the mala

fides of the Respondent No.3 amounting to legal malice. Reliance

on this aspect was placed on State of A. P. and Others vs. 1 Goverdhanlal Pitti . (v) It was also contended that the impugned Order reflects

that the former Panchayat Members of Gnathang denied having

issued the recommendation but Annexures R6/20 and R6/21

wherein the Panchayat had stated that their signatures obtained on

the residential/declaration certificate was forged reveals that a

copy of the forged document was enclosed. This information in

fact pertained to one Shri Sundas but the document said to have

been enclosed was concealed by Respondent No.3, indicating mala

fides and false implication of Petitioner No.1 in the case. (vi) In the final leg of his arguments, Learned Senior

Counsel contended that a WP(PIL) 06 of 2015 was filed by one

Biraj Adhikari for reasons already elucidated (supra). The State-

Respondents No.1 to 3 therein by filing Affidavit dated 16-04-2016

inter alia specified the manner in which they proposed to verify the

alleged COIs. A Commission headed by Hon‟ble Shri Justice Malay

Sengupta (Retired) for the above purpose was constituted by the

State Government. The Commission duly submitted its Final

Report wherein it was found that the COI of the Petitioner No.1

was also included in 31,188 fake cases of COI and found mention

at Serial No.755 , at Page 48 as established by Annexure P12. The

COI of Petitioner No.1 having thus been subjected to verification, in

the „Remarks‟ column it was recorded as "verified and found 1 (2003) 4 SCC 739 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 13 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

correct". The Additional District Collector, Respondent No.3 vide

letter dated 01-08-2018, Annexure P11, forwarded the final report

of verification conducted by the Commission, to the Secretary,

Land Revenue and Disaster Management Department, Respondent

No.2. The Report was accepted by the State Government and filed

before this Court on 02-11-2018 in the said PIL. (vii) That, now the matter having been given a closure is

being re-agitated on Complaints against the Petitioners based on

envy, on the success of the Petitioner No.4, presently the

Panchayat President of 51 Kyongnosla Gram Panchayat Unit from

where he has been Panchayat President for two terms from the

year 2012 till date. Thus, the Petitioners‟ rights guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India have been violated

due to a departure from the due process of law. That, the

impugned Order dated 17-12-2019 is bad in law as the principles

of natural justice have not been complied with, the Petitioners

having been deprived of an opportunity to put forth their case or

cross-examine witnesses examined by Respondent No.3. That, the

findings in the impugned Order that the Petitioner No.1 is not the

natural or biological son of Late Gumaney Kami is devoid of any

evidence. That, the impugned Orders dated 17-12-2019 and 13-

10-2020 are manifestly erroneous passed without jurisdiction,

illegal and not in consonance with the Rules and Government

Notifications governing the same, hence, the prayers in the Writ

Petition be granted. 8. Learned Additional Advocate General repudiating the

contentions supra, reiterated the facts as narrated in the Counter-

Affidavit and urged that the Notification of the Home Department WP(C) No.33 of 2020 14 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

bearing No.119/Home/2010, dated 26-10-2010, provides that; the

Authority issuing the COI is also authorized to cancel it, if it has

been obtained by misrepresentation or suppression of material

facts. An appeal lies to the Secretary, Land Revenue and Disaster

Management Department, for redressal within one month of

cancellation or refusal to grant COI. That, Annexure P10 the

impugned Judgment/Final Order dated 13-10-2020 reveals that the

Petitioners only sought for a "stay of the operation" of the

impugned Order dated 17-12-2019 and maintenance of status quo

on the COIs of the Petitioner No.1 and his sons. No prayer was

made against the order of cancellation of the COI, hence on this

count the Petitioners are required to exhaust the remedy of the

Appellate Forum before approaching this Court. In this context,

reliance was placed on the Judgment of this Court in The Gangtok 2 Municipal Corporation vs. Union of India and Others and, Commissioner of Income Tax and Others vs. Chhabil Dass Agarwal3 . Learned Additional Advocate General also placed reliance on Hari

Vishnu Kamath vs. Ahmad Ishaque and Others4 . That, the Petitioners

in the prayers in their Writ Petition also did not seek the setting

aside of the impugned Orders dated 17-12-2019 and 13-10-2020.

That, when such prayers have not been included in the Petition by

the party then the Court cannot grant reliefs which are not sought

for. In this context, reliance was placed on Krishna Priya Ganguly

etc. etc. vs. University of Lucknow and Others etc. 5. 9. While also reiterating the averments made in his

Counter-Affidavit Learned Legal Aid Counsel for the Respondent 2 WP(C) No.38 of 2019 decided on 22-10-2021 3 (2014) 1 SCC 603 4 AIR 1955 SC 233 5 AIR 1984 SC 186 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 15 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

No.6 contended that six families have made the COIs from

Gumaney Kami, but each family is unknown to the other. When

the COI was issued to the Petitioner No.1 the first recommendation

was obtained from the Naitam-Nandok Block Panchayat, whereas

the other Petitioners obtained the recommendations from

Gnathang Gram Panchayat which renders the act suspicious. That,

Annexure R6/19 reveals that the Petitioner No.1 had nine children

wherein some have applied for COI and others have not, this too

raises doubts about the Petitioners and their origins. That,

discrepancies found in the documentary evidence are alarming in

nature and therefore it is clear that the Petitioners have not come

with clean hands. That, the recommendation and the verification

for the purpose of granting COI to the Petitioners was erroneous.

He further submits that Annexure R6/40 which is the list of

doubtful cases of COI also bears the name of the Petitioner No.1 at

Serial No.5354 and the Petitioners No.2 to 6. That, when the list

was prepared the Petitioners No.2 to 6 had not obtained their

COIs, but it was obtained by them on 30-08-2006 and 31-08-2006. 10. Learned Counsel for the Respondent No.5 endorsed the

submissions made by Learned Additional Advocate General and

Learned Legal Aid Counsel for the Respondent No.6 and had no

submissions to further augment the above. 11. In rebuttal, Learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioners

while contesting the claim of the Learned Additional Advocate

General that Writ Petition cannot be filed without exhausting the

statutory forum placed reliance on S.J.S. Business Enterprises (P) Ltd.

vs. State of Bihar and Others6 . While repudiating the submission of 6 (2004) 7 SCC 166 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 16 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

Additional Advocate General that there was no prayer for setting

aside the impugned Order of Respondent No.3, strength was drawn

from the ratio in Union of India and Others vs. Tantia Construction 7 Private Limited which laid down the principles for interpretation of

a document, that the document is to be read holistically. Reliance

was also placed on B. K. Muniraju vs. State of Karnataka and Others8 on this count. It was urged that the grounds set out in the Writ

Petition all seek setting aside of the impugned Order of the

Additional District Collector. Placing reliance on Lt. Governor, Delhi

and Others vs. HC Narinder Singh9 and State of Andhra Pradesh and

Others vs. Chitra Venkata Rao10 it was argued that the Petitioners

cannot be penalized twice as the verification conducted by the

Police and by a Commission comprising of a retired High Court

Judge established the bona fides of the Petitioners and was

accepted by the Government, which Respondent No.3 ignored

while issuing the impugned Order dated 17-12-2019. 12. Having heard the Learned Counsel for the parties in

extenso, perused all averments and documents and citations made

at the Bar, the question that requires consideration by this Court

is; (i) Whether the impugned Order dated 17-12-2019 passed
 by the Respondent No.3 cancelling the COIs of the
 Petitioners and the impugned Judgement/Final Order
 dated 13-10-2020 passed by the Respondent No.2
 upholding the impugned Order of Respondent No.3 are
 illegal, arbitrary, erroneous, without jurisdiction and in
 violation of the principles of natural justice? 7 (2011) 5 SCC 697 8 (2008) 4 SCC 451 9 (2004) 13 SCC 342 10 (1975) 2 SCC 557 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 17 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others 13. In the first instance, it is relevant to recapitulate that in

exercise of its extraordinary power of superintendence and/or

judicial review under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of

India, the High Courts restrict interference to cases of patent error

of law which goes to the root of the decision; perversity or

unreasonableness; violation of the principles of natural justice, lack

of jurisdiction and usurpation of powers or if the conclusion made

by the authorities on the very face of it is wholly arbitrary or

capricious that no reasonable person could have arrived at such a

conclusion or grounds very similar to the above. In Shri Ambica

Mills Co. Ltd. vs. Shri S. B. Bhatt and Another11 it was propounded that

it is well-settled that a Writ of Certiorari can be issued not only in

cases of illegal exercise of jurisdiction but also to correct errors of

law apparent on the face of the record. It is not the function of the

High Court in a Petition for a Writ under Article 226 of the

Constitution to review, re-assess or re-analyse the evidence and to

arrive at an independent finding on the evidence. On the

parameters of the principles etched out supra, the instant matter is

being examined. 14. In order to comprehend what the much disputed

Certificate of Identification (COI) is, it is relevant to clarify here

that in the erstwhile Kingdom of Sikkim under the Sikkim Subjects

Regulation 1961 certain persons domiciled in the territory of Sikkim

at the commencement of the Regulation and some others,

contingent upon certain caveats, could be Sikkim Subjects. Post

merger of Sikkim into the Indian Union a Memorandum dated 25-

09-1976 came to be issued wherein to ascertain the residential 11 AIR 1961 SC 970 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 18 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

qualification of candidates who claimed to be „locals‟, for the

purposes of employment, it was decided that the candidates should

be able to „maintain‟ whether their parents name had been

recorded on or before 15-05-1975 in the relevant Government

Register. The Government Register is presumably the Sikkim

Subject Register. Following the Memorandum of 25-09-1976,

Notifications dated 28-01-1980, 09-04-1981 and Circular dated 17-

03-1987 were issued on the subject of identification and residential

status of persons residing in Sikkim, empowering the Authorities

who were to issue domicile/residential certificate to such residents,

subject to fulfillment of conditions laid down therein. On 22-11-

1995 the State Government in supersession of all previous

Memoranda and the Circular of 1987 authorized the officials

mentioned therein to issue COI to the following categories of

persons; 1. A person whose name is found recorded in the
 Old Sikkim Subject Register or 2. A person whose name is not found registered in
 the Old Sikkim Subject Register but he/she has
 established beyond doubt that the name of
 his/her father/husband/paternal grandfather/
 brother from the same father has been
 recorded in the Old Sikkim Subject Register or 3. A person who has or had agricultural land in
 rural areas and has been ordinarily residing in
 the State of Sikkim or 4. A person who is holder of Indian Citizenship
 Certificate issued by the District Collector,
 Government of Sikkim under the Sikkim
 (Citizenship) Order, 1975 as amended vide the
 Sikkim (Citizenship) Amendment Order, 1989
 or 5. A person whose father/husband has/had been
 in Sikkim Government Service on or before
 31.12.1969. Certificate or Identification
 obtained by such persons shall be for the
 purpose of employment only. Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others It is the COIs which were issued to the Petitioners that were

under challenge before the Respondent No.3 and Respondent No.2

on Complaints filed by Respondents No.5 and 6. 15. Indubitably, Notification No.66/Home/95, dated 22-11-

1995, of the Home Department, authorized the District Collector,

Sub-Divisional Officers and Revenue Officers within their respective

jurisdiction to issue COI to the persons falling in the different

categories as detailed in the Notification, on the recommendation

of the Gram Panchayat and on the issuing authority being satisfied

with such recommendation. By a partial modification of this

Notification, by a Notification bearing No.57/Home/96, dated 27-

09-1996, the words "Sub-Divisional Officers and Revenue Officers" (ii) Articles 243(d) and 243G of the Constitution provides

as follows; It is assumed that when they function they have the wherewithal

to carry out the Police verification that is required by the

Notifications supra. The verification expectedly would be incisive

and conclusive. That having been said, notwithstanding such

procedure comprising of Gram Panchayat‟s recommendation and

the Police verification and the Petitioners having been found to be

Sikkimese and thereby entitled to COIs in terms of the Notification

supra, the impugned Orders were issued by Respondent No.3 and

Respondent No.2 without discussing in their Orders as to why the

recommendations and Police verification were not worth

considering and why the authorities who issued such

recommendation and verification were not reliable.

17(i). On this count, it is relevant to notice that before this

Court a Writ Petition in the nature of Public Interest Litigation was

filed on 28-09-2015 by one Biraj Adhikari seeking an enquiry into WP(C) No.33 of 2020 23 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others and cancellation of 31,180 fake cases of COI. The Writ Petition

was registered as WP(PIL) No.06 of 2015 and considered by a

Division Bench of this Court on which Notice was issued to the

State-Respondents numbering 1 to 9 therein and the Central

Government as Respondent No.10. Admittedly, the State-

Respondents in an Affidavit filed on 16-04-2016 detailed the

specifics according to which they proposed to verify the alleged

fake COIs. In Paragraph 3 of its Affidavit therein, the State-

Respondents averred as follows; (iii) On 24-08-2017, the Court again ordered as follows; Respondents on 16-04-2016 which is extracted hereinabove, it is

safely assumed that during the process of verification the records

of the 31,180 doubtful cases of SSCs/COIs were obtained from the

Office of the District Collectors of the various Districts. It is also

presumed that the details mentioned by the applicants in their

applications for grant of COI were verified from the original

Register maintained in the Department of the Respondent No.3. It

is further presumable that as undertaken by the State-

Respondents if cases were found to be doubtful on scrutiny, in the

list of 31,180 doubtful cases they would be referred to the

concerned District Collector for further enquiry and cancelled, if

necessary, in terms of the Notification bearing No.119/Home/2010

dated 26-10-2010. That, as the Additional District Collector was WP(C) No.33 of 2020 25 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others also authorized to issue COI along with the District Collector it is

further presumed that every Additional District Collector of every

District in Sikkim was taken into confidence when the scrutiny was

undertaken and was in the know of the said exercise. In the teeth

of such Panchayat recommendations, which is, as already pointed

out, a Constitutional Authority, the Police verification and the

Report submitted by the Commission headed by no less than a

retired High Court Judge, Respondents No.1 to 4 in their joint

Counter-Affidavit, dated 20-04-2021, affirmed by Respondent

No.3, filed before this Court in the instant matter averred as

follows; Thus, it is clear that Constitutional Courts being courts of

record, have the authority under its plenary jurisdiction to peruse

the orders passed by it in a previous matter to prevent miscarriage

of justice. In Supreme Court Bar Association vs. Union of India and 12 Another it was observed that a Court of record is a Court the

records of which are admitted to be of evidentiary value and are

not to be questioned when produced before any Court. That clears

the air pertaining to references made herein to the case of Biraj

Adhikari being WP(PIL) No.06 of 2015. 19. Reverting back to the Report of the Commission, as

pointed out by Learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioners,

admittedly the name of the Petitioner No.1, Bhim Bahadur

Biswakarma Kami, finds mention at Serial No.755, Page 48 of the

Final Report, submitted by the Commission on completion of its

verification. In the „Remarks‟ column against his name,

undisputedly it has been recorded as "verified and found correct".

In other words, the details with regard to the obtainment of COI by 12 (1998) 4 SCC 409 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 27 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

Petitioner No.1 was verified by the Commission and found to be

correct. The Report of the Commission at Paragraph 4.1 reads as

follows; 20. Despite the facts and circumstances narrated

hereinabove, it is seen that the Respondent No.5 filed a Complaint

on 29-08-2018 and the Respondent No.6 filed a Complaint on 04-

09-2018, as already detailed in the foregoing Paragraphs, against

the Petitioners when the PIL was before the Division Bench of this

Court. The Respondents No.2 and 4 herein were in seisin of the

fact of the PIL filed before this Court and in fact assisted in the

scrutiny of the alleged fake COIs in terms of the Affidavit submitted

by the State-Respondents and Respondent No.3 vide its letter

dated 01-08-2018 and forwarded the final report to Respondent

No.2. Thus, both Respondents No.2 and 3 were seemingly aware WP(C) No.33 of 2020 28 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others of the contents of the Final Report. The filing of these Complaints

and the registration of the case by Respondent No.3 was not

brought to the notice of this High Court, a Court of competent

jurisdiction. 21. The impugned Order dated 17-12-2019 of the

Respondent No.3 reflects that during the pendency of the WP (PIL)

before this Court, parallel proceedings with regard to Complaints

filed by the Respondents No.5 and 6 were being carried out

inasmuch as Respondent No.3 embarked on an examination of

witnesses on 24-09-2019. Upon disposal of the PIL on 03-12-

2019, the impugned Order dated 17-12-2019 came to be issued

followed by the impugned Judgment/Final Order dated 13-10-

2020. 22. It is settled law that parallel remedies in respect of the

same matter cannot be pursued at the same time. In State of

Andhra Pradesh vs. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju Kanumuru (M.P. )13 the

Supreme Court considered the matter in which a Writ Petition

being WP(PIL) No.241 of 2021 had been filed on 08-12-2021

before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Amaravati, which on

16-12-2021 directed construction activities in the concerned

Project to be undertaken strictly in accordance with the permission

accorded by the concerned Ministry. However, the Respondent had

addressed a letter to the NGT on 31-10-2021 and the NGT taking

cognizance of the letter initiated proceedings in O.A. No.361 of

2021. The NGT appointed an Experts Committee on 17-12-2021

which submitted its report on 29-03-2022 and did not find any

violation in the construction carried out by the Appellant. The NGT 13 2022 SCC OnLine SC 728 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 29 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

vide its Order dated 06-05-2022 appointed a 2nd Experts

Committee, the report of which was awaited. However, without

waiting for the Report, vide the same Order NGT directed that no

further construction was to be undertaken. It was argued on

behalf of the Appellant that the High Court of competent

jurisdiction was already in seisin of the matter, therefore, the NGT

could not have entertained a lis with regard to the same cause of

action. The Supreme Court held that it was not appropriate on the

part of the NGT to have continued with the proceedings before it,

specifically when it was pointed out that the High Court was also in

seisin of the matter and had passed the interim order permitting

the construction. It was observed that there can be no manner of

doubt that in such a situation, it is the Orders passed by the

Constitutional Courts, which would be prevailing over the Orders

passed by the Statutory Tribunals. Thus, the proceedings pending

before the Learned NGT were quashed and set aside. In Arunima

Baruah vs. Union of India and Others14 the Supreme Court referred

to the ratio in Jai Singh vs. Union of India and Others15 where it was

specifically laid down that the Court would not ordinarily permit a

party to pursue two parallel remedies in respect of the same

subject-matter. In Jai Singh (supra) the Supreme Court also

observed that after the dismissal of the Writ Petition the Appellant

had filed a suit in which he had agitated the same question which

was the subject-matter of the Writ Petition. The Supreme Court

opined that the Appellant cannot pursue two parallel remedies in

respect of the same matter at the same time. 14 (2007) 6 SCC 120 15 (1977) 1 SCC 1 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 30 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others 23. Relevant reference may also be made to J. Chitra vs.

District Collector and Chairman, State Level Vigilance Committee, Tamil 16 Nadu and Others . A Writ Petition before the Supreme Court was

filed by the Appellant challenging the Order dated 09-04-2008

passed by the Chennai District Vigilance Committee cancelling her

Community Certificate. The Writ Petition was dismissed by the

High Court of Madras by a Judgment dated 22-12-2008, aggrieved

by which the Appeal was filed. The Appellant had been issued a

Community Certificate on 28-08-1992 showing that she was from

the Valluvan Community, a Scheduled Caste. A Complaint was

preferred by Dr. Ambedkar Service Association to the Office of the

Accountant General where she was employed, raising doubts about

the Community Certificate produced by the Appellant at the time of

joining service. The Appellant was directed to attend an enquiry to

be conducted by the Collector regarding the genuineness of the

Community Certificate. A Notice was issued by the District

Collector, Chennai directing the Appellant to show cause as to why

her Community Certificate should not be cancelled. The District

Collector directed the Revenue Divisional Officer to conduct an

enquiry. An enquiry was conducted by the District Vigilance

Committee after which it expressed its view that the Appellant

belongs to the said Community which is a Scheduled Caste. The

service of the Appellant was regularized in the year 2000 and she

was promoted in 2001. In the meanwhile, the said Dr. Ambedkar

Service Association submitted another representation that suitable

action should be taken against the Appellant for securing

employment as reserved category candidate on the basis of a false 16 (2021) 9 SCC 811 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 31 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

Caste Certificate. The State Level Scrutiny Committee informed

the Appellant of the Complaint received and directed her to be

present for inquiry to be conducted on 24-03-2003. In the

meanwhile, the District Vigilance Committees were reconstituted by

the Government of Tamil Nadu on 06-07-2005. The State Level

Scrutiny Committee remanded the inquiry pertaining to the

Community Certificate of the Appellant to the District Vigilance

Committee on 04-01-2006. The Appellant appeared before the

District Vigilance Committee and attended the enquiry which, on

09-04-2008 cancelled the Community Certificate of the Appellant.

Assailing the Order the Appellant was before the High Court of

Madras which was dismissed by the High Court vide its Judgment.

The Supreme Court on the Appeal filed by her held that; [emphasis supplied] 24. Similarly, in the instant case the Report submitted by

by the Commission headed by the retired High Court Judge, after

scrutiny duly assisted by the District Collectors of the various

Districts, accepted by the Government and placed before the

Division Bench of this Court in the case of Biraj Adhikari (supra) WP(C) No.33 of 2020 32 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others also attained finality as there was no challenge either to the

findings of the Commission arrived at in its Final Report or the

acceptance of it by the State Government as already discussed in

detail hereinabove and no challenge arose also to the Police

verification carried out for issuance of COIs to the Petitioners.

Thus, the Respondent No.3 did not have any jurisdiction to reopen

the matter and conduct an enquiry by himself besides being

precluded from acting as the Investigator, Prosecutor and Judge. 25. On the bedrock of the above-mentioned ratiocinations

when the Respondents No.3 and 4 being the concerned Authorities

who were also a part of the process of scrutiny and verification of

the alleged fake COI they could not have carried out parallel

proceedings when a matter was pending in the High Court. It was

in fact their bounden duty to have brought the pending Complaints

to the notice of this Court when the PIL supra was being taken up

for consideration. It is not the case of the State-Respondents that

new facts were brought out by the Respondents No.5 and 6 or that

fresh facts emerged against the Petitioners during the pendency of

the Complaints which prompted a fresh enquiry into the matter.

Verifications and re-verifications cannot be carried out repeatedly

by the concerned authorities on the same matter, for the personal

satisfaction of every disgruntled Complainant. 26. The Complaints of Respondents No.5 and 6 pivot

around the allegation that the Petitioners obtained their COIs by

misrepresentation of facts. It is relevant to notice that as pointed

out by Learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioners the Respondent

No.5 is aged about 42 years and claims to be well-acquainted with WP(C) No.33 of 2020 33 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others the facts and circumstances of the case. In the Verification clause

of her Affidavit she states as follows; [emphasis supplied]

27(i). On this facet, we may usefully look to the provisions of Order XIX Rule 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (hereinafter,

" CPC ") which provides as follows; (ii) In A. K. K. Nambiar vs. Union of India and Another17 a

Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court emphasized the

importance of verification and opined that importance of

verification is to test the genuineness and authenticity of

allegations and also to make the deponent responsible for

allegations. In essence verification is required to enable the Court

to find out whether it will be safe to act on such Affidavit evidence. In the said case, it was found that the Affidavits of all the parties

suffer from the mischief of lack of proper verification with the 17 (1969) 3 SCC 864 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 34 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

result that the Affidavits would not be admissible in evidence. In Virendra Kumar Saklecha vs. Jagjiwan and Others18 while considering

an election petition dealt with importance of disclosure of source of

information in an Affidavit. The Supreme Court held that the

importance of disclosing such source was to give to the other side

notice of the same and also give an opportunity to the other side to

test the veracity and genuineness of the source of information. In

M/s. Sukhwinder Pal Bipan Kumar and Others vs. State of Punjab and 19 Others a three Judge Bench of the Supreme Court while dealing

with Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India held that

under Order XIX Rule 3 of the Code it was incumbent upon the

deponent to disclose the nature and source of his knowledge with

sufficient particulars. In a case where allegations in the Petition

are not affirmed as aforesaid, it cannot be treated as supported by

an Affidavit as required by law. In Barium Chemicals Ltd. and

Another vs. Company Law Board and Others20 a Constitution Bench of

the Supreme Court held that while answering the question as to

what were the materials placed by the appellants in support of this

case which the Respondent had to answer inter alia observed as

follows; 28(i). Addressing the argument of Learned Additional

Advocate General that the Petitioners ought to be directed to

exhaust their alternative forum before approaching this Court for

which he placed reliance on Chhabil Dass Agarwal (supra) where the

Petitioner who was an income tax assessee, a non-Sikkimese

residing in the State of Sikkim questioned the assessment order

issued by the Assessing Officer by filing a Writ Petition. The High

Court dealt with the matter on merits and set aside the assessment

orders. The Supreme Court held that though vested with discretion

to grant relief under Article 226 of the Constitution of India despite

existence of an alternative remedy the High Court must not

interfere if an adequate efficacious alternative remedy is available

to the Petitioner unless an exceptional case warranting interference WP(C) No.33 of 2020 36 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others is made out or sufficient grounds exist to invoke extraordinary

jurisdiction under Article 226. Thus, invocation of the provision of Article 226 of the Constitution is to be taken up inter alia when

exceptional or sufficient grounds exist to invoke the extraordinary

jurisdiction. The order of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court is not a

blanket order prohibiting an aggrieved person to approach the High

Court under Article 226 of the Constitution when a statutory

remedy is available. In this context, in Harbanslal Sahnia and

Another vs. Indian Oil Corpn. Ltd. and Others21 the Supreme Court in

a case where the High Court had taken a view that the remedy by

the way of recourse to arbitration clause was available to the

appellants and therefore the Writ Petition filed by the appellants

was liable to be dismissed, observed that the rule of exclusion of

writ jurisdiction by availability of an alternative remedy is a rule of

discretion and not one of compulsion. In an appropriate case in

spite of availability of the alternative remedy, the High Court may

still exercise its writ jurisdiction in at least three contingencies; (i)

where the writ petition seeks enforcement of any of the

fundamental rights (ii) where there is failure of principles of natural

justice or (iii) where the orders of proceedings are wholly without

jurisdiction or the vires of an act is challenged. (ii) In Radha Krishan Industries vs. State of Himachal Pradesh 22 and Others the Supreme Court went on to state that; "27.3. Exceptions to the rule of alternate
 remedy arise where: (a) the writ petition has been
 filed for the enforcement of a fundamental right
 protected by Part III of the Constitution; (b) there has
 been a violation of the principles of natural justice; (c) the order or proceedings are wholly without 21 (2003) 2 SCC 107 22 (2021) 6 SCC 771 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 37 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

 jurisdiction; or (d) the vires of a legislation is
 challenged." (iii) In Whirlpool Corporation vs. Registrar of Trade Marks, 23 Mumbai and Others the Supreme Court observed as follows; [emphasis supplied] (iv) From the facts and circumstances of the matter at

hand, it is evident that the Respondent No.3 has exercised

authority exceeding its jurisdiction, the Petitioners have also made

out a case of violation of the principles of natural justice on

account of non-furnishing of Complaints to them, lack of an

opportunity to put forth their own case and to cross-examine the

witnesses and for enforcement of fundamental rights as envisioned

under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution, thereby warranting

interference of this Court under its extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. It goes without saying that

the discretion to exercise the jurisdiction or not lies with the Court

and cannot be contingent upon the diktat of any party. 29. The argument of Learned Additional Advocate General

that there was no prayer for setting aside the Order of the 23 (1998) 8 SCC 1 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 38 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

Respondent No.3 and therefore the Petitioners should be sent back

to exhaust the remedy provided in the forum cannot be

countenanced as on consideration of the pleadings it emerges with

clarity that the Petitioners are aggrieved by the cancellation of their

COIs and in the „Grounds‟ pleaded by them at Paragraph (xv) of

their averments it has been specified that the impugned Orders

dated 17-12-2019 and 13-10-2020 cancelling the COIs of the

Petitioners are patently and manifestly erroneous without

jurisdiction, illegal and not in consonance with the Rules and

Government Notifications governing the same and are liable to be

quashed and set aside. The averments indeed have to be

considered holistically and not in isolation. Presumably, it is an

error in drafting whereby such prayer for setting aside the

impugned orders was not inserted in the Prayer portion or in the

prayers before the Respondent No.2. An error in drafting cannot

translate into denial of rights. On this facet, it is worth observing

that in Dwarka Nath vs. Income-tax Officer, Special Circle, D Ward, 24 Kanpur and Another the Supreme Court held that High Courts can

issue directions, orders or writs other than the prerogative writs.

It enables the Courts to mould the reliefs to meet the peculiar and

complicated requirements of this country. In M. Sudakar vs. V. 25 Manoharan and Others the Supreme Court has also held that the

power to mould relief is always available to the Court possessed

with the power to issue high prerogative writs. In order to do

complete justice it can mould the relief depending upon the facts

and circumstances of the case. In the facts of a given case, a Writ

Petitioner may not be entitled to the specific relief claimed by him, 24 AIR 1966 SC 81 25 (2011) 1 SCC 484 WP(C) No.33 of 2020 39 Bhim Bahadur Kami and Others vs. State of Sikkim and Others

 but this itself will not preclude the Writ Court to grant such other

 relief which he is otherwise entitled. Hence, although there may be

 no specific prayer but the Court is of the opinion that to meet the

 requirements and to do complete justice in the matter, the relief

 can be moulded by the Court. 30. In light of the foregoing discussions it concludes that; (i) The COIs of all the Petitioners are found to be legal,
 correct and valid in terms of the Final Report of the
 Commission headed by Hon‟ble Shri Justice Malay
 Sengupta (Retd.) dated 18-08-2018, submitted to the
 State Government on 01-09-2018 and accepted by it on
 27-09-2018 and thereafter filed by the State Government
 before the Division Bench of this Court on 02-11-2018 in
 WP(PIL) No.06 of 2015. (ii) Consequently, the impugned Order dated 17-12-2019 of
 Respondent No.3 whereby the COIs issued to each of the
 Petitioners were cancelled and the impugned Order dated
 13-10-2020 of the Respondent No.2, which upheld the
 impugned Order of Respondent No.3 dated 17-12-2019,
 are set aside and quashed, both being illegal, arbitrary in
 violation of the principles of natural justice and lacking
 jurisdiction. (iii) No further effect shall be given to the operation of the
 said impugned Order of Respondent No.3 dated 17-12-
 2019 and of Respondent No.2 dated 13-10-2020. 31. The Writ Petition stands disposed of accordingly. 32. No order as to costs. ( Meenakshi Madan Rai )
 Judge
 08-07-2022

 Approved for reporting : Yes
ds