% 21.11.2023 CRL.M.A. 13529/2023 1. Allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. The present petition has been filed under Section 438 read with Section 482 CrPC seeking anticipatory bail in connection with FIR No.0453
 of 2022 under Sections 420 / 468 / 47l / 120B / 34 IPC registered at PS Mangol
 Puri, Delhi. 3. The allegations against the petitioner are that he along with his mother
 has misled the complainant and several other victims on the pretext that they
 will arrange government jobs for them and has taken money from them to

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/11/2023 at 20:53:40
 the extent of Rs.49 lakhs in total. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner invites the attention of the Court to
 the FIR, to contend that there are no specific allegations against the present
 petitioner. He submits that a perusal of the FIR itself reveals that the
 amount paid by the complainant and other victims has been paid to the
 mother of the petitioner, namely, Babita Sethi and no amount has either been
 handed over to the petitioner or transferred into the account of the petitioner. 5. He submits that there is no allegation of misrepresentation against the
 petitioner. He further submits that the mother of the petitioner, who was
 arrested, has also been enlarged on bail. He also seeks parity with his wife,
 who was granted anticipatory bail by the Court of the learned Sessions
 Judge. In the backdrop of the aforesaid circumstances, it is urged by the
 learned counsel for the petitioner that he be granted anticipatory bail. 6. The learned APP for the State has handed over a status report today in
 the Court, which is taken on record. 7. Per contra, learned APP for the State, as well as, Mr. Kanhaiya
 Singhal, learned advocate appointed as Amicus by the court to represent the
 complainant, have argued on the lines of the status report. 8. Learned APP submits that the mother of the petitioner is an aged lady
 possibly, 60 years of age and it is the petitioner, who is the master mind. He
 submits that the petitioner cannot claim parity with his wife, who is a lady
 and the only allegation against the wife of the petitioner is that she would
 count the money given by the complaints/victims. 9. He submits that it is the case of the multi-victim scam and the
 petitioner is also a flight risk inasmuch as he has not disclosed his correct
 address. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/11/2023 at 20:53:40 10. Mr. Singhal, the learned counsel for the complainant also invites the
 attention of the Court to the address of the petitioner mentioned in the memo
 of parties, affidavit, as well as, to the order dated 20.04.2023 vide which the
 anticipatory bail application was dismissed by the learned Additional
 Sessions Judge, to contend that the address furnished in the present petition
 by the petitioner was verified by the IO and it transpired that the petitioner
 has never resided at the said address in his capacity as a tenant. 11. He further refers to the FIR, to contend that there are specific
 allegations made against the present petitioner to the effect that he would
 accompany his mother and father to the house of the complainant, namely,
 Babita Devi to collect the money. It is specifically mentioned that an
 amount of Rs.3 lakhs was handed over by the complainant to Prince Sethi as
 well as other family members. It is also mentioned in the FIR that the
 petitioner along with his sister had also visited the house of the complainant
 from time to time and has collected a further amount of Rs.20 lakhs. 12. He invites the attention of the Court to the status report to contend
 that the bank account in which the amount was transferred by the
 complainant and other victims was though in the name of the sister of the
 petitioner but the same was being handled by the petitioner and her mother. 13. He further submits that the mother of the petitioner in her disclosure
 statement when confronted with the appointment letters pertaining to FCI,
 IRCTC etc. stated that she is not in a position to comment on the said
 appointment letters and it is the present petitioner, who is better equipped to
 comment thereon. 14. He submits that TIP of the present petitioner is required to be done to
 establish his identity. He further submits that the mother of the petitioner has

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/11/2023 at 20:53:40
 also disclosed the petitioner was using a smart phone to forward the
 appointment letters, therefore, recovery of said smart phone is required to be
 made. 15. I have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner, learned APP, as
 well as, the learned Amicus representing the complainant. 16. A perusal of the FIR, makes it apparent that there are specific
 allegations made against the present petitioner. It has been specifically
 alleged that the petitioner has accompanied her mother once and has also
 visited the petitioner thereafter on number of occasions to receive payments
 from her. 17. Further, the recovery of appointment letters, stamps and mobile phone
 is also required to be made from the petitioner apart from the TIP which also
 needs to be conducted for establishing the identity of the petitioner. 18. The petitioner is not entitled to parity with her sister who was granted
 anticipatory bail. The sister apart from being woman, has not played any
 active role in cheating the complainant / victims, unlike the present
 petitioner. The only overt act ascribed to her is that she would count the
 money received from the complainant / victims. 19. The investigation is at the initial stage and considering the
 circumstances in entirety, this Court is of the view that the custodial
 interrogation of the petitioner is required to make recoveries and unearth the
 entire conspiracy. Hence, the present petition seeking anticipatory bail is
 dismissed. VIKAS MAHAJAN, J
 NOVEMBER 21, 2023/MK

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 28/11/2023 at 20:53:40