Mr. Ranajoy De

Heard on : April 23 and 30, 2009; May 7 and 14, 2009; June 18, 2009; July 2,
2009; August 6 and 27, 2009; September 26, 2009; December 10, 2009; April 8
and 24, 2010; and May 6, 2010. Judgment on : December 7, 2010 1. Courts of law are slow to interfere with an administrative order of an

 employer transferring its employee from one place to the other, if such 2 transfer is one of the terms and conditions of service of the employee

 concerned. It is only on limited grounds that an order of transfer could

 be assailed. If it is established that an order of transfer has been passed

 malafide, a Court may interfere. Interference could also be made if the

 transfer is totally contrary to statutory rules governing the same and

 shocks the conscience of the Court. Instances of interference, however,

 are few and far between in view of acknowledgement of the Courts that

 the employer is best suited to judge whom to transfer where so as to

 obtain optimal result. Interference is, by and large, by way of an

 exception. 2. Here, I am called upon to decide the present writ petition where validity,

 legality and/or propriety of an order dated March 24, 2007 issued by

 the Personnel Manager of Durgapur Chemicals Limited, a Government

 of West Bengal undertaking (hereafter the company), transferring the

 petitioner, a Chemical Engineer posted in the company's manufacturing

 plant at Durgapur, to its sales office at Kolkata as Sales Engineer, is

 under challenge. 3. The petition was presented before this Court on April 13, 2007. By an

 interim order dated April 16, 2007, the impugned order of transfer was

 stayed by a learned Judge and affidavits were directed to be exchanged.

 The respondents later on filed an application (CAN 3618 of 2008)

 praying for vacating the interim order. The application by an order

 dated July 23, 2008 was directed to be heard along with the petition. 3 4. The parties have since been heard extensively. I have perused the

 pleadings as well as other materials on record. 5. Since the petitioner's service is not regulated by any statute, question of

 the transfer having been ordered contrary to a statutory rule does not

 arise. 6. Mr. Sanyal, learned advocate for the petitioner, however, asserted that

 malice is the foundation of the impugned order and, therefore, having

 regard to the facts and circumstances preceding the same, the Court

 ought to interfere to undo the injustice meted out to the petitioner. In

 particular, it is his contention that the impugned order seeks to alter

 the nature and character of the job of the petitioner as well as his job

 profile apart from jeopardizing his prospect of promotion in future. It

 has additionally been contended that senior officers of the company

 including the Managing Director were inimical towards the petitioner for

 his refusal to comply with orders passed by them, which he considered

 to be unlawful and, thus, to wreak vengeance he had been transferred. 7. Mr. Ghosh, learned advocate for the respondents, sought to justify the

 impugned order by referring to the terms and conditions of service of

 the petitioner reflected from the offer of appointment dated January 27,

 1998. According to him, the company did not have any manufacturing

 unit or factory at Kolkata at the time the petitioner was appointed and

 having accepted that he is liable to be transferred to Kolkata or any

 other unit of the company, he cannot now raise any grievance on his 4 transfer to Kolkata on the ground that he was recruited for rendering

 service in the manufacturing unit/plant of the company. In support of

 the contention that when a post is transferable no employee has a right

 to remain at a particular place, he relied on the decisions in National

 Hydraulic Power Corporation v. Sri Bhagwan , reported in JT 2001 (7)

 SC 515, and State of U.P. v. Siyaram, reported in 2004 (7) SCC 405. 8. It was next contended by him that having secured appointment to the

 post of Assistant Engineer (Chemical) in the company, the petitioner

 even on being transferred to Kolkata would enjoy the same status and

 privileges hitherto before enjoyed by him without any change of terms

 and conditions of service. Consequently, the apprehension of the

 petitioner that his future prospect would be jeopardized is thoroughly

 misconceived and merits no consideration. 9. While repelling the contention of Mr. Sanyal that the petitioner would be

 left with no work at the sales office, Mr. Ghosh contended that it was for

 the company to decide how to utilize the service of the petitioner best. In

 view of dearth of competent personnel at the sales office to explain to

 the customers the know-how of the company's products, it was thought

 worthwhile to post a senior engineer. Since the petitioner was found to

 have appreciable knowledge about the products of the company, having

 been involved in the manufacturing process for long, decision was taken

 in the company's interest to transfer him to the sales office. It was

 contended that the satisfaction reached in this behalf by the company 5 ought not to be tinkered with. Reliance in this connection was placed on

 the decisions in Luxmi Narayan Mehar v. Union of India , reported in JT

 1997 (3) SC 444, Md. Masud Ahmed v. State of U.P., reported in JT

 2007 (11) SC 540, and Registrar General of High Court, Calcutta v.

 Chitra Biswas , reported in 2006 (1) CHN 110. 10. Before I proceed to consider the rival claims and decide the issue raised

 herein, I may observe upon consideration of the decisions cited by Mr.

 Ghosh that while the proposition of law laid down in those decisions

 can hardly be disputed, each proceedings wherein orders of transfer are

 challenged have to be decided keeping in mind its own peculiar facts.

 Time and again the Courts have cautioned that it is not easy to prove

 malafide. Whether a particular order of transfer suffers from malice or

 not must necessarily be decided in view of the pleadings and the

 materials on record and no straight jacket formula in this regard could

 be laid down. 11. In respect of the additional contention of Mr. Sanyal noticed above, I

 accept the submission of Mr. Ghosh that the incidents referred to by the

 petitioner much prior to the transfer was ordered, which are in bits and

 pieces, do not make out a case of the superior officers of the company

 acting in tandem to wreak vengeance against him. The arguments

 advanced by Mr. Sanyal based on 'malice in fact' are not well conceived

 and do not merit consideration for returning a finding in his favour. 6 12. However, to appreciate the principal contention raised by Mr. Sanyal,

 certain facts including those dating back prior to the appointment of the

 petitioner in the company, have to be noticed. These facts have duly

 been brought on record by the petitioner by filing appropriate affidavit. 13. The company on March 20, 1996, had issued an advertisement

 expressing interest to recruit Graduate Engineer Trainees for its works

 in different streams. While in the chemical stream there were four

 vacancies, the number of vacancy in respect of electrical and

 mechanical streams was one each. Qualification that the company

 required the aspirant for the post to possess was a degree in engineering

 in the respective field, preferably first class. The company did not

 guarantee employment after completion of training; it was, however,

 notified that on successful completion of training, the trainees would be

 placed against regular vacancies of Assistant Engineer or Foreman

 category depending upon one's performance during the training period. 14. It was pursuant to such advertisement that the petitioner offered his

 candidature. Upon successful completion of training, he was offered

 regular appointment on the post of Assistant Engineer (Chemical) vide

 letter dated 27th January, 1998 referred to above . The offer of

 appointment was addressed to the petitioner while he was a Graduate

 Engineer Trainee (Chemical) posted at the CCP Plant of the company at

 Durgapur. 15. It is further noted that by an office order dated January 8, 1998, to be

 effective from the following day, the petitioner while being described as

 Assistant Engineer (Chemical), was directed to look after the chlorine

 and hydrochloric units and to report to the Assistant Manager

 (Production) directly. 16. It is not in dispute that till the order of transfer was issued, the

 petitioner's posting at the works of the company at Durgapur was never

 disturbed and by dint of the interim order passed by this Court, he has

 still been continuing thereat. 17. In course of hearing, Mr. Ghosh strenuously urged that the know how

 of the petitioner in respect of chemical products was proposed to be

 utilized for promoting and augmenting sales of the company's products

 from the sales office at Kolkata and, therefore, regard being had to the

 fact that the concept of industrial engineering has changed and multiple

 functioning is the order of the day, the company had felt the need to

 transfer him to Kolkata. 18. By order dated July 2, 2009, I had called upon the company to file a

 further affidavit granting them opportunity to place on record any

 document that it considered necessary to be placed on record for

 effective adjudication of the issue raised in the petition. It was also

 directed therein as follows : 19. In compliance with such order, an affidavit dated July 16, 2009 sworn

 by Sri Sukamal Kanti Guha, the company secretary of the company, has

 been filed. 20. Insofar as functions of the sales office at Kolkata are concerned, it has

 been stated therein as follows : 21. Regarding details of officers holding the post of Assistant Engineer

 (Chemical) who were posted as Sales Officers/Sales Engineers at the

 company's sales office at Kolkata, the respondents referred to office

 orders dated July 13, 2005, April 20, 2005 and June 1, 2006 in relation

 to one employee, namely Mr. K.K. Nandi. 22. For proper appreciation, the contents of the said office orders are

 reproduced below seriatim: Ref : No: DCL/G.M(W)/56/10 Date :13.4.2005
 Subject : Transfer of Mr. K.K. Nandi
 In order to improve working condition of the material procurement
 department it is felt necessary to transfer Mr. K.K. Nandi with 9 immediate effect who has been presently looking after the stores
 functions. For your information and record please. Memo No.2S/07/05-06/11

 Mr. K.K. Nandi, AE (Chem) is being entrusted to look after the jobs of
 Purchase Department with immediate effect. The Management of Durgapur Chemicals Limited has decided to re-
 designate you from the present designation of Asstt. Engineer (Chem)
 to Purchase Officer with immediate effect. However all your other
 terms and conditions of employment remain unaltered.
 This is for your information and needful. As such, you are hereby
 instructed to use your new designation in all official correspondence
 and communication in future. 23. The plea of the company that the said K.K. Nandi, Assistant Engineer

 (Chemical) had been transferred to the Material Procurement

 Department, then entrusted to look after the jobs of Purchase

 Department and thereafter re-designated as Purchase Officer have been

 countered by the petitioner by filing a reply affidavit August 12, 2009.

 Serious exception has been taken to the stand of the company to equate

 the said K.K. Nandi with the petitioner. According to the petitioner, the

 said K.K. Nandi, having qualification of B.Sc., MBA had started his

 career in the company as Sales and Marketing Engineer (Trainee). He

 was initially posted in the Stores Department and thereafter in the

 Purchase Department as Purchase Officer. He had, therefore, necessary 10 training and experience in sales. Surprise has been expressed as to how

 without having an engineering degree, the company could designate him

 as Assistant Engineer (Chemical). Support has been drawn from the

 advertisement dated March 20, 1996 referred to above by and under

 which the petitioner was recruited as Graduate Engineer Trainee

 (Chemical) for the works of the company and subsequently posted as

 Assistant Engineer (Chemical) in the works/plant. 24. To drive home the point that only those having valid engineering degrees

 have been designated as engineers, the petitioner apart from enclosing

 several documents to such affidavit has relied on the documents

 annexed to the said affidavit of the company dated July 16, 2009 to

 negate the contention of the company that an Assistant Engineer

 (Chemical) could be posted as Sales Officer at Kolkata for proper

 utilization of his service in promoting and augmenting sales. The first of

 such advertisement is the one dated July 3, 2007 published in 'The

 Telegraph', relevant portion whereof reads as follows : 25. The other advertisement dated May 16, 2006 was published in 'The

 Economic Times (Kolkata)'. To the extent relevant, the advertisement

 reads as follows : 26. It has thus been the endeavour of Mr. Sanyal to emphasize that for

 posting as Sales Engineer/Officer at the Kolkata office, not only is an

 engineering degree from a recognized university with MBA are sine qua

 non, experience in sales and marketing is also a desirable qualification.

 The petitioner, according to him, neither has MBA degree to his credit

 nor any experience in sales. 27. The company, it is also noted, has not chosen to deal with the contents

 of the reply affidavit dated August 12, 2009 filed by the petitioner. It is

 true that the Court had not called upon the company to deal with each

 and every paragraph of such affidavit by filing its own affidavit but if the

 petitioner had misrepresented facts or tried to play fraud on Court by

 making misleading statements on oath, nothing prevented the company

 from preparing an affidavit on its own without waiting for a direction of

 the Court in this behalf, and then to seek leave of the Court to file it.

 The company did file written note of arguments. Although at page 16 12 thereof the company has submitted that whatever has been stated

 about the said K.K. Nandi is correct, his educational qualifications as

 disclosed by the petitioner in the reply affidavit dated August 12, 2009

 have not been disputed. 28. It is therefore clear from a conspectus of the above documents that the

 only employee designated as Assistant Engineer (Chemical) to have been

 transferred to the sales office at Kolkata was the said K.K. Nandi. Indeed

 the said K.K. Nandi had been designated Assistant Engineer (Chemical)

 without having a valid engineering degree to his credit. He, however,

 had an MBA degree to his credit. He had been working in the stores and

 purchase department and was thereafter re-designated as Purchase

 Officer. There is nothing on record to suggest that the said K.K. Nandi

 was ever involved in the manufacturing process of the company's

 chemical products. 29. To remonstrate that the petitioner's transfer at the Kolkata Office is not

 without precedent, the company's attempt to rely on orders passed by it

 in relation to posting of the said K.K. Nandi must, for reasons discussed

 above, be rejected as misconceived. 30. I have thus no doubt in my mind that the petitioner is the first Assistant

 Engineer (Chemical) employed by the company, posted from the

 inception at the works/plant at Durgapur and involved in the

 manufacturing process of its chemical products, who has been sought

 to be transferred at its sales office at Kolkata. 31. From the available records, I have now to search for an answer as to

 whether such a move is in the interest of the company or not. 32. Having anxiously considered the entire gamut of facts and

 circumstances, I regret, a finding in favour of the company cannot be

 returned. 33. From the nature of functions the sales office at Kolkata is required to

 perform (quoted above), it leaves no manner of doubt that the same do

 not pertain to functions to be discharged by an engineer employee so

 long involved in the process of manufacturing chemical products. Sales

 of products, marketing and expansion of customer's base, liaison with

 customers, preparing tender documents and taking follow up action if

 materials are rejected are pre-dominantly functions to be discharged by

 personnel having experience in sales and marketing, as well as public

 relations. 34. As expressed above, although the employer's right to decide when and

 where to post its employee for extracting maximum gains has been

 acknowledged by the Courts and interference with such decision has

 been seldom, the Courts are not absolutely powerless and the scanner

 of judicial review may operate, in exceptional cases, where the facts are

 so glaring that its conscience is shocked. 35. The submission of Mr. Ghosh that presence of an experienced engineer

 like the petitioner would be required at the sales office at Kolkata to

 explain to the customers the utility of the chemical products of the 14 company as well as its ingredients appears to be one in desperation and

 naturally has left me unimpressed. It is one thing to know how a

 product is manufactured and what its ingredients are; it is absolutely a

 different thing to explain matters to customers to make such product

 saleable. For achieving the same, one has to acquire qualification of the

 nature sought for by the company mentioned in the advertisements

 (contents quoted above), which the petitioner does not possess. To post

 the petitioner at the sales office only for the purpose of making the

 customers aware of the products' ingredients and its utility, particularly

 when in the past no other engineer having similar credentials like the

 petitioner was posted, appears to be a veiled attempt of the officers of

 the company at the helm, not otherwise explainable, to keep the

 petitioner away from Durgapur. 36. That apart, information and technology have made rapid strides in

 modern times. Judicial notice can well be taken of the fact that in the

 age of internet, customers are no longer made to depend on any

 particular personnel of the company for making them aware of the

 ingredients of the company's products or its utility. Even the minutest

 details are made available on the website of the concerned company so

 that on the click of a mouse, the customer is able to make a choice of

 products manufactured by different companies. Queries are addressed

 through e-mails. To post an engineer who had been involved in the

 manufacturing process of chemical products so long (and who by now 15 must have achieved a particular level of excellence) to the sales office at

 Kolkata, without worthy justification is infected with irrationality in the

 process of decision making, and the action cannot be thrown out by

 blindly following the decisions cited by Mr. Ghosh. 37. The company being an Article 12 authority is bound by the

 Constitutional provisions to direct its actions in all spheres of its

 activities so as to achieve the preambular promise of securing, inter

 alia, equality of status and opportunity for the people of the country.

 The petitioner being in public employment is also entitled to the

 protection envisaged in Article 16 , i.e. equal opportunity in matters of

 employment. True it is that right to work is not a fundamental right, but

 a distinction has to be drawn between the State's obligation to secure

 right to work of the unemployed ( Article 41 ) and an employee's right to

 be provided with equal opportunity at a public office in respect of every

 facet of his employment ( Article 16 ). Whether or not the petitioner, in

 the given facts and circumstances, is entitled to have his right enforced

 in relation to providing him opportunity in his workplace to show his

 skills, which flows from Article 16 , requires consideration now. 38. At the hearing, I called upon Mr. Sanyal and Mr. Ghosh to consider

 certain decisions having a bearing on the issue involved herein, viz. ( i)

 Langston v. Amalgamated Union of Engineering Workers & ano.,

 reported in [1974] 1 All ER 982, (ii) Mukunda v. Managing Director,

 reported in 1986 ( 1) LLJ 470, (iii) P.K. Chinnaswamy v. Govt. of T.N. , 16 reported in (1987) 4 SCC 601, and (iv) Rajendra Prasad Chaturvedi v.

 Commissioner, Kanpur Region, reported in 2002 Lab IC 3301. Upon

 consideration thereof, they advanced arguments for and against

 applicability of the same. 39. In Langston (supra), the Trade Union did not want that the

 appellant/workman should work with the members of such union

 because he refused to become a member thereof. The union pressed the

 management to terminate the service of the appellant/workman. To buy

 peace, the management placed the appellant/workman under

 suspension but paid him full wages. Since the suspension was not for

 any misconduct on the part of the appellant/workman or by way of

 interim suspension pending proceedings, he complained to the

 management contending that he did not intend to become a member of

 the union and that he had a right to work without being a member

 thereof. Since the appellant/workman was not given work, the

 Industrial Court was approached by him with the grievance that he had

 not been treated fairly by the management and that he was a victim of

 unfair labour practice. The Industrial Court held against the

 appellant/workman, who then appealed to the Court of Appeal. 40. The Court was referred to an earlier decision in Collier v. Sunday

 Referee Publishing Co. Ltd., reported in [1940] 4 All ER 234, where

 Asquith, J. observed: Asquith, J. had referred to two cases where a commercial traveller and

 salesman

 "were held to have no legal complaint so long as the salary
 continued to be paid, notwithstanding that, owing to the action of
 their respective employers, they were left with nothing to do. The
 employer was not bound to provide work to enable the employee
 [as the phrase goes] to 'keep his hand in', avoid the reproach of
 idleness, or even make a profit out of travelling allowances". 41. Lord Denning, after noticing the above decision, observed as follows : 42. In Mukunda (supra), a learned judge of the Karnataka High Court ruled

 that the view of the Court of Appeal, as quoted above, is reflected in Article 41(2) of the Constitution and therefore the Court ought to take

 notice of the constitutional mandate while interpreting the provisions of Chapter V-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . It may be noted that

 the Court was considering, inter alia, whether a badli worker could be

 treated as a probationer or a temporary workman and whether his

 services could be terminated on the ground of unsuitability without

 holding an enquiry, and further as to whether by reason of continuous

 service he is entitled to the benefits of Section 25F of the said Act. 43. The Supreme Court in Chinnaswamy (supra) was considering as to

 whether a public officer should be given posting and work

 commensurate to his status and whether failure to do so by the

 employer would call for the Court's interference. The decision was

 rendered almost a decade and half after the decision in Langston (supra). Without noticing it, the Supreme Court in the Indian context

 held as follows: (underlining by me for emphasis)

 With this in view, the Court had called upon the respondent

 Government to give the appellant a proper posting and extract work

 from him. Since the State Government did not do the needful, it became

 necessary for the Court to interfere. However, it was observed that

 ordinarily in a case of this type, the Court would have no role to play. 44. More than two decades have passed since then. To make public officers

 accountable to the people of the nation for whatever they do has been

 gaining ground. Is it not the right time to emphasize that to sustain a

 transfer order of the present nature, the employer must be called upon

 to satisfy the Court of the genuine need that was felt leading to posting

 of a particular officer at a place where there is every possibility of his

 services not being utilized fully? Should the Court, instead of shying

 away obsessed with the thought that it is for the employer to decide

 where and when to post its employee, not interfere in a case where

 reasonable or probable cause is wanting and the impugned action can

 well be characterised as taken with an oblique or indirect object? In the 20 present day socio-economic scenario, the answers to these questions

 cannot but be in the affirmative. 45. Experience has shown that one has to pass through several levels before

 tasting success in life. Being in public employment, the petitioner could

 legitimately claim to be accorded all the necessary opportunities so that

 he might blossom in whatever official activity he pursues. An individual

 employee in pursuit of excellence would be prone to achieve a standard

 or reach a level fixed by him by climbing the ladder of success. As soon

 as he achieves/reaches the fixed standard/level, he aims to

 achieve/reach a higher standard/level. This is the way one gradually

 climbs to the top in due course of time. If midway the ladder is removed,

 the result would be obvious. The target can neither be reached nor the

 aim achieved. This is precisely what the petitioner in all likelihood is

 bound to encounter, if posted at Kolkata. A public employer has no right

 to make his employee sit idle although he may be paid all the

 emoluments which he would have been entitled to in law had he

 actually worked. Drain of public exchequer ought to be frowned upon.

 Gone are the days of pure master-servant relationship regulated by the

 terms of the contract. An employee in public employment, keeping his

 designation and emoluments intact, cannot be compelled not to work or

 made to work in a field over which he has no expertise, and yet entitled

 to full pay and allowances. If the petitioner after being posted at the

 sales office at Kolkata fails to bolster sales of the company's products 21 owing to lack of expertise and experience in the particular field of work

 he is asked to discharge, the same is most likely to affect his future

 career in the company. Chance of securing promotion can take a

 beating; and possibility of other engineers having similar qualifications

 like the petitioner working in the works/plant stealing a march over

 him, by reason of their involvement in the manufacturing process and

 thereby excelling in their pursuit, cannot be totally ruled out. The effort

 put in by him to achieve a certain degree of excellence would go waste if

 the posting at Kolkata is not interdicted. 46. In our Constitutional scheme, an employer within the meaning of Article

 12 cannot use transfer as a camouflage to keep away one or several of

 its employees from a particular workplace on the ground of public

 interest to his or their detriment in respect of future prospect. It is too

 late in the day to seek to sustain such an order of transfer by

 contending that since there would be no change in salary and

 status/designation, the employee can have no reason to complain.

 Money and status do matter, but to a conscientious employee money

 and status are not all that he seeks to obtain/achieve. Such an

 employee takes pride in his work and perceives a sense of satisfaction

 for contributing to the well being of the society at large. A responsible

 and committed public employee is one who would not merely stick to

 the normal working hours of ten to five but do more to effectively serve

 the people. It is this class of employees that earns the admiration and 22 respect of the public at large, although his peers may not be too

 satisfied. If such employee seeks to justify the salary being paid to him

 from the public exchequer by demanding that he be given fullest

 opportunity to demonstrate his skills further during working hours,

 should such a claim be nipped in the bud on the specious plea that it is

 not for the Court to decide where and when to post an employee? I

 think not. On the basis of the materials on record and for reasons

 discussed above, I am inclined to return a finding that the impugned

 transfer order fouls the equal opportunity clause enshrined in Article 16. 47. A word or two about the Division Bench decision of the Allahabad High

 Court in Rajendra Prasad Chaturvedi (supra) need to be said. The Court

 was considering a writ petition of the incumbent in the post of District

 Agriculture Officer. He had challenged an order by which his

 administrative and financial powers were curtailed and transferred to

 some other officer. The Court observed that even though there could be

 some violation of law in issuing the impugned order, the petitioner had

 not suffered any prejudice because his burden of work was reduced.

 According to the Court "(i)t is only an employee, who wants to earn

 money dishonestly, apart from his salary, who may have a grievance

 against an order reducing his burden of work." It was further observed

 that "(n)o honest employee can insist that he be given work apart from

 salary and allowances." In the process, the decision in Chinnasamy 23 (supra) was distinguished by observing that the said decision does not

lay down any principle of law that an employer is bound to give work to

an empoloyee even if it pays full salary and allowances. Notwithstanding

the scams and increased instances of corruption which are surfacing, I

cannot resist observing that the aforequoted sweeping remarks of the

Court are a slur on public servants of unquestionable honesty and

impeccable integrity. There are employees who after completing their

own work during the day, seek to do more work to justify the salary and

allowances drawn by them. By dint of the aforequoted remarks of the

Court, such employees may well be branded dishonest. Even otherwise,

if an employee is suddenly divested of his powers without proper reason

and/or justification resulting in reduction in the burden of his work,

that itself would cast a stigma on him who would henceforth be viewed

by his colleagues as dishonest. Ultimately, why should the employer

divest an employee of his powers unless he is dishonest, would be the

question doing the rounds in the corridors of the workplace. If such an

action is questioned in Court, should discretion not be exercised instead

of not accepting the challenge to the impugned action on the ground

that by reduction in the burden of work the employee concerned suffers

no prejudice? The answer to the question, in my view, would largely

depend on the mindset of the adjudicator and the surrounding

circumstances in which he works. If everyone around him is dishonest,

even an honest employee would seem to him to be dishonest. Be that as 24 it may, I have considered it necessary to make these observations to

 encourage honest employees holding public offices to stand up and

 protest if any attempt on their part to justify their pay and allowances is

 sought to be thwarted by taking recourse to the aforequoted remarks. 48. The other plea of the company that the petitioner at the time he was

 offered appointment was aware that he was liable to be transferred at

 Kolkata also appears to be indefensible. I am inclined to accept Mr.

 Sanyal's submission that the relevant clause, on being reasonably

 construed, would mean that in case the company sets up any other

 plant/works at Kolkata or in its vicinity, the petitioner could be

 transferred thereat in the interest of the company. 49. The action of the company in transferring the petitioner to the sales

 office at Kolkata is without lawful excuse, a deliberate act in disregard

 of the petitioner's right infringing the 'equal opportunity' clause in Article 16 and one which could be lebelled as 'malice in law'. Therefore, I

 have no other option but to set aside the order of transfer impugned

 herein in exercise of writ powers. It is ordered accordingly. 50. The writ petition stands allowed, without any order for costs. Urgent photostat certified copy of this judgment, if applied for, may be

 furnished expeditiously. (DIPANKAR DATTA, J.)