Date : 20.11.2024

 Heard Mr. W.R. Medhi, learned counsel for the petitioners. Also
heard Mr. D.P. Goswami, learned Addl. P.P. for the State and Mr. M. Haloi,
learned Special P.P. for the Central Bureau of Investigation. 2) The petitioners, namely, Mayur Dekaraja and Pal Kumar
Bordoloi, who are apprehending arrest in connection with Nagaon P.S. Case No.
859/2024 under sections 61(2), 316(2), 318(4) of the BNS read with section
21(1) , 21(2) , 21(3) , 22 and 23 of the Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes
Act, 2019, have filed this pre-arrest bail application under section 482 of the
BNSS. 3) It may be mentioned herein that during the investigation of the
said case, the Govt. of Assam, vide notification dated 09.10.2024, under section
6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, has handed over the
investigation to the CBI. 4) The learned counsel for the petitioner is relying on a copy of the
order dated 08.10.2024, passed by this Court in A.B. No. 2413/2024 - Kashyap
Phukan v. State of Assam , whereby a co-accused has been granted pre-arrest
bail by this Court. Accordingly, the principle of parity is invoked by the learned
counsel for the petitioner as the petitioner is similarly situated as the petitioner
in A.B. 2413/2024. It is submitted that no victim has lodged any FIR and thus, it
was submitted that the FIR has been lodged on assumption and fictitious
grounds. In paragraph 6 of this bail application, it is projected that the
 Page No.# 3/5

petitioners are in no way related to any accused, except for having acquaintance
during formal interactions as members of the NGO. 5) Accordingly, on the ground that there is every likelihood that the
CBI has not been able to make out a case that the petitioner was in any way
involved in indulging in unregulated deposits. 6) The learned Special P.P. for the respondent no. 2 has produced
the scanned copy of the case diary and has opposed the prayed for bail in the
interest of investigation, which is at its nascent stage and moreover, the
petitioner has not appeared before the I.O. despite service of notice. 7) Considered the materials available on record and perused the
case diary. 8) From the investigation done so far, it is seen that the I.O. has
been able to collect documents to show that huge monetary transactions has
been carried out through the bank account of the NGO, where the petitioners
are members. Moreover, in the bank account of the petitioner no.2, there
appears to be several financial transactions. 9) It is also seen that as per the bank statement, the monetary
transactions in various bank accounts which are being investigated, are through
voluminous UPI payments. It is otherwise available in public domain that a
person making UPI payments cannot be tracked through UPI transaction
identification number. 10) In this case, the CBI case has been registered on 23.10.2024. It
is also seen from the case diary that the I.O. has taken steps to obtain
information from several banks and UPI platforms. Thus, the investigation by
the CBI is at a very nascent stage. Page No.# 4/5 11) The investigation carried out so far does not reflect that any
person has lodged an FIR that they have been cheated by the petitioners.
Nonetheless, the root cause for the financial transactions to such huge extent as
indicated hereinbefore is required to be investigated. 12) The possibility that the Govt. of Assam must have information
about the seriousness of the unregulated deposit scam so as to hand over the
investigation to the CBI cannot be ruled out. 13) It is well settled that economic and/or financial fraud and financial
scams are required to be treated as an offence of a different class. If anything
which is projected by the CBI is true, then small deposits by many people from
the State have been accumulated and the masterminds of the scam have then
closed down their establishments. 14) The learned counsel for the petitioners has submitted that the
establishment, namely, Bulls Eyes Foundation and Bulls Eyes Sky High, where
the petitioners are working, is an NGO to provide ambulance and other
community services. If that be so, then the investigating agency has to unearth
the reason for such a huge financial transaction in the account of the said NGO
and why money was transferred to the bank accounts of the petitioners. 15) Therefore, the grant of bail to one of the co-accused, would not
come in the way of the Court to hold that as the investigation is at the nascent
stage, and as a huge monetary transaction has been found in the bank account
of the NGO where the petitioners are working and also in the bank accounts of
several projected accused persons including the petitioner no.2, the pre-arrest
bail cannot be granted to the petitioners at this stage of investigation. 16) Accordingly, the prayer for pre-arrest bail for the petitioners,
 Page No.# 5/5

namely, Mayur Dekaraja and Pal Kumar Bordoloi, is rejected at this stage.