Inspector of Police, Basavanagudi Police Station

has filed this Charge sheet against accused above

named for offences punishable under sections 420 of

IPC and 66(C) of Information Technology Act. 2. Brief facts of prosecution case are that :- 3. The accused was arrested during crime

stage and he is enlarged on bail. After filing of

charge sheet, cognizance of above offences is taken

and summons is issued. Accused has appeared in

pursuant to summons. Copy of charge sheet

furnished to accused under Sec.207 of Cr.P.C and

charge is framed. Accused has not pleaded guilt of

alleged offences and he has claimed to be tried. 4. In order to prove the guilt of the accused,

prosecution has examined 1 witness as P.W.1

and got marked 2 documents as per Exs.P1 and P2.

After completion of prosecution evidence, statement

of accused as required under Section 313 of Cr.P.C.

has been recorded. The accused has denied

incriminating evidence against him and he has not

led any defence evidence. 5. On the basis of charge sheet allegation, the

following points arose for consideration: 5 C.C.No.2669/2019 6. Heard arguments of learned Sr.APP and

learned counsel for accused. Perused oral and

documentary evidence adduced by the prosecution.

The following are findings to above points. Point No.1 and 2 : In the Negative
 Point No.3 : As per final order, for the
 following: 7. Point No.1 and 2:- These points are taken

together for consideration as findings on one point

have bearing on other points. 8. P.W.1 Thammaiah S/o. Gowde Gowda has

testified in his evidence that he is running battery 6 C.C.No.2669/2019 business in Basavanagudi. On 26.02.2018, accused

approached him stating that he would get customer to

their shop and they should pay him 3% commission

on sale. On same day, by stating that accused will

enter his membership to said scheme, swiped his

credit card in swiping machine brought by him and he

got swiped Rs.500/-. He has further stated that, on

same day evening, he noticed that an amount of

Rs.36,000/- was drawn from his account and he

received message in his mobile phone. Immediately he

went to bank and got blocked his credit card. P.W.1

has further testified that he lodged complaint before

police on 11.03.2018 and he furnished details of

above fraud. Further after about one month

Bommanahalli police called him and informed that

they have caught hold of above fraudster.

Thereafter, police returned an amount of

Rs.20,000/- to him in cash. On above date he had

identified accused to be person who had cheated 7 C.C.No.2669/2019 him among 3 - 4 persons. He has identified First

Information lodged by him as per Ex.P1 and his

signature on it as Ex.P1(a). He has further admitted

in his evidence that, on 11.03.2018 itself police had

come to his shop and conducted spot mahazar in

presence of himself, C.Ws.2 and 3 as per Ex.P2 and

he has identified his signature on it as per Ex.P2(a).

However, in cross-examination by defence side this

witness has completely turned hostile by testifying

that accused present before court is not a person

who cheated him and further stated that he had not

given the facial description of accused before police.

He has further admitted that he does not know the

contents of Ex.P2 mahazar, witnesses of said

mahazar and he signed it at police station. He has

clearly admitted that accused has never cheated

him and he has not identified him in police station.

He has further admitted that there is no nexus

between accused and this case. 9. Further C.Ws.2 to 6 are not secured despite

coercive steps and same are dropped. Further in

view of aforesaid hostile evidence of P.W.1, C.Ws.7

to 13 are also dropped as no purpose of prosecution

will be served by examining said witnesses. Thus on

perusal of entire evidence on record, it shows that

P.W.1, who is first information and the sole victim of

the case has turned hostile with regard to nexus

between alleged crime and accused. He has clearly

denied that accused had committed the alleged

offence. Under such circumstances absolutely there

is no reason to believe that accused has committed

alleged crime. For these reasons evidence of

witnesses adduced by prosecution has not inspired

the confidence of the court to believe that accused

has cheated P.W.1 and he has committed identity

theft of P.W.1 as per case of prosecution. Hence

prosecution has failed to prove beyond reasonable

doubts that accused has committed offences 9 C.C.No.2669/2019 punishable under Sections 420 of IPC and 66(C) of

Information Technology Act. Hence point No.1

and 2 are answered in the Negative. 10. Point No.3: - (Anand T Chavan)
 st
 1 Addl. CMM., Bengaluru 10 C.C.No.2669/2019 ANNEXURE

List of witnesses examined for prosecution :- P.W.1, Thammaiah; List of exhibits marked for prosecution :- List of Witnesses examined for defence:- (Judgment pronounced in Open Court vide
separate judgment)
 ORDER
 Acting under Section
 248(1) of Cr.P.C. the accused is
 acquitted for the offences
 punishable under Sections 420 of IPC and 66(C) of Information
 Technology Act. The bail bond and surety
 bond executed by accused
 shall continue for a period of
 two months from the date of
 this order and thereafter same
 shall stand canceled
 automatically.