Case taken up through video conferencing. Affidavits filed on behalf of the State and the complainant are

ordered to be taken on record. Copies of the same have already been supplied to

learned counsel for the petitioner in advance. Through the present petition filed under Section 438 Cr.P.C. the

petitioner seeks the grant of anticipatory bail in FIR No.11 dated 18.02.2020

registered under Sections 409 , 420 , 120-B , 419 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 477-A IPC, Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and Sections 66 and 66-D of Information Technology Act, 2000 at Police Station Tarsikka, District

Amritsar (Rural). As per the affidavit filed on behalf of the State, on 18.02.2020 a

complaint was submitted to the police by the Amritsar Central Cooperative

Bank, Amritsar (for short-the Bank) alleging therein commission of

irregularities and embezzlement. Such complaint formed the basis of

registration of the aforesaid FIR. In addition to reporting the matter to the police, on the detection of

the aforesaid embezzlement, the Bank also constituted an enquiry committee

headed by a Deputy General Manager of the Bank which submitted its report

dated 06.07.2020 as per which the petitioner and his co-accused were found to

have embezzled an amount of Rs.17,80,41,356.89/- by making false entries in

"OFL Settlement Account" and "OFL Interest Settlement Account" of the Bank

and in the corresponding records/accounts of the Cooperative Societies of

which the petitioner and Sukhdev Singh were Secretaries. The accused persons

were also found to have made reverse deposits to the tune of Rs.2,35,72,906/-

resulting in net embezzlement of Rs.15,44,68,450.89/-. Such embezzlement was

found to have been committed for the years 2014 to 2020. After lodging the aforesaid FIR the State arrested Rakesh Kumar,

Manager of the Tarsikka Branch of the Bank and his custodial interrogation

revealed that he and co-accused Ram Kishore, Cashier of the Branch, used to

make false entries in the accounts of three Cooperative Societies namely

Tarsikka Multipurpose Cooperative Society, Bhattike Cooperative Society and

Saidolehal Multipurpose Cooperative Society. Such false entries were made in

connivance with the petitioner and co-accused Sukhbir Singh and Sukhdev

Singh who were the Secretaries of the aforesaid three Cooperative Societies.

Investigations further revealed that Sukhbir Singh, Sukhdev Singh and

petitioner-Kulwant Singh being Secretaries of the aforesaid three Cooperative

Societies were the only ones who used to liaison between the Tarsikka Branch

of the Bank and the Societies and by taking undue advantage of their official

position as also the innocence and ignorance of the farmers/villagers/members

of the societies committed forgery and embezzlement. They were found to have

used blank cheques given to them by the simple, ignorant and mostly illiterate

villagers which were used by them to siphon off money from their accounts. The modus operandi adopted by the petitioner along with his co-accused as

given in the status report filed by the State is extracted below:- Investigations further revealed that "OFL Settlement Account" and

"OFL Interest Settlement Account" are solely for the personal use of the bank.

However, co-accused Rakesh Kumar and Ram Kishore, in connivance with the

petitioner and other Secretaries of the aforesaid three Cooperative Societies,

misused their official positions to transfer huge amounts from "OFL Settlement

Account" to the accounts of the Saidolehal Multipurpose Cooperative Society,

Bhattike Cooperative Society and Tarsikka Cooperative Society. Such transfers

were made as disbursement of loan amounts to the members of the societies but

the same were without the knowledge of and instructions from the members.

Since the members were not aware of the disbursement of such amounts they

were withdrawn by the petitioner and his co-accused. These withdrawals were

 3 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 27-09-2020 09:14:54 ::: CRM-M-16724-2020 [4]

made through dummy accounts opened and falsely verified by them. Some of

the amounts were found to have been withdrawn even without any cheque or

verification. Investigations conducted so far have further revealed that the

petitioner transferred huge amounts from the accounts of the bank to his and his

family member's personal savings account(s). The petitioner and his co-accused have also been found to have

deposited the interest collected from the members of the Cooperative Societies

and another payments of the Cooperative Societies in the 'OFL Settlement

Account" which is against the rules of the Bank. Such amounts were then found

to have been withdrawn, transferred and embezzled as per the will of the

petitioner and his co-accused. All the accused, including the petitioner, in connivance with each

other, have further been found to embezzle huge amounts of money from the

Kissan Credit Card loan accounts. Investigation has found that the modus

operandi adopted by them in this regard was that they used to obtain blank

cheques from ignorant farmers by assuring them that they are withdrawing

amounts on their behalf from their loan accounts. However, they used to fill up

the amounts in the cheques as per their wishes and used to pay only a part of the

withdrawn amount to the farmers. The balance amount was pocketed by them.

Then they used to make false entries in the passbook of the ignorant farmers. Thus, investigations conducted so far have revealed that the

petitioner has indulged in forgery and fraud. He is found to have misused his

official position and embezzled crores of rupees by defrauding innocent and

ignorant farmers, who reposed faith in him. All this was done under the pretext

of facilitating disbursement of loans to the members of the society/farmers

under the different schemes floated by the Government and then embezzling a

 4 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 27-09-2020 09:14:54 ::: CRM-M-16724-2020 [5]

part or whole of such amounts for personal gain. It is the admitted position that the petitioner has deposited to the

bank an amount of Rs.17,52,000/-. Source of such amount needs to be verified. The investigation is still under way and till date the same has

revealed embezzlement of huge amounts by the petitioner. Such embezzlement

is allegedly by defrauding and cheating innocent farmers and out of the loans to

which they were entitled to under several schemes floated by the State for their

benefit. It cannot be ruled out that for non-release of loan amounts to which the

innocent farmers were entitled to, on being pocketed by persons like the

petitioner, caused the innocent farmers untold misery and may have even led

them to take the extreme fatal step. This aspect also needs to be investigated. The seriousness of the offences alleged to have been committed by

the petitioner; the extent of embezzlement by him; the petitioner's exact role

vis-à-vis him and his co-accused; whether other persons are involved; recovery

of the embezzled amount and incriminating documents; investigations into the

findings arrived at in the Enquiry report dated 06.07.2020 by the Enquiry

Committee appointed by the Bank; unearthing of shadow accounts, if any,

opened and operated by the petitioner; modus operandi adopted by the

petitioner and his exact role therein and the extent of properties, if any, acquired

by the petitioner and his family members as also finding the source of the funds

deposited in the petitioner's personal account(s) are few of the issues on which

light can be thrown only through the petitioner's custodial interrogation. In view of the above as also for the reason that the petition for

anticipatory bail filed by co-accused Sukhbir Singh being CRM-M-17385-2020

"Sukhbir Singh vs State of Punjab " already stands dismissed by this Court on

10.07.2020 the present case is not considered a fit one for the grant of

anticipatory bail. A copy of the order be forwarded to the Commissioner of Income

Tax/ Joint Director, Income Tax (Investigation), Amritsar who may examine

the matter to find out whether the petitioner has violated any provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and then take action, if so required, in accordance with

law. Such directions have been issued inter-alia keeping in view the allegation

with regard to embezzlement of over a crore of rupees by the petitioner and

deposit of Rs.17,52,000/- made on his behalf. It is clarified that the above observations have been made only for

the limited purpose of deciding the present anticipatory bail application at the

time when investigation into the allegations against the petitioner is pending

and thus the same would not be construed to be an expression of opinion on the

merits of the case.