SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J. The instant Public Interest Litigations are for a Writ of

 Mandamus directing the respondents to consider the petitioner's

 representations and consequently, direct the respondent to shift the

 proposal to put up a garbage dumping yard in Rangabala Nagar,

 Narasingapuram Village, Attur Taluk, Salem District. Since the issue is

 same/common in all the writ petitions, they are being dealt with by a

 common judgment. http://www.judis.nic.in 5 2. It is the case of the petitioners that there are about 2000

 people and 250 families residing in Narasingapuram Village. The

 Government have allotted a park area in S.No.113/90 to Rangabala Nagar.

 The petitioners would submit that the Commissioner, Narasingapuram

 Municipality, Attur Taluk, is proposing to construct a dumping yard in the

 area earmarked for park. The people residing in the area have opposed the

 same by conducting peaceful agitation, but their pleas had not been

 considered by the Municipality. The petitioners have therefore, filed the

 instant Writ Petitions. 3. The Narasingapuram Municipality has filed a Counter Affidavit

 stating that Narasingapuram is a second grade municipality and population

 in about 26000. The average generation of the municipal solid waste in

 Narasingapuram Municipality is about 9.6 MT/day. In order to tackle the

 increasing volume of solid waste, which is the result of increasing economic

 growth, urbanization and industrialization, a project report was prepared

 for the management of decentralized Micro Compost Plant in accordance

 with Solid Waste Management Rule 2016 to cover (i) Waste segregation (ii)

 Collection (iii) Transportation (iv) Processing and (v) Disposal. The project

 costs about Rs.196.45 lakhs. The Municipality has stated that the

http://www.judis.nic.in 6 construction of Micro Compost Centre work in ward No.13 (Old TNHB) with

 the processing capacity of 3.00TPD including a compound wall and approach

 road work is in progress. Tender was called on 14.03.2018 and work order

 was issued on 10.04.2018. It is stated that at present drilling of bore well

 work is completed, the compound wall work is completed, Micro compost

 shed work is physically completed up to the roof level and now the work is

 fixing of A.C.sheets for roof and construction of masonry tub work are in

 progress. 4. It is stated that the park is an extent of 29620.80 sq.ft and

 only an extent of 4260.00 sq.ft is being taken for Micro Compost Plant. It is

 therefore submitted that only 3.44 % of the area is taken up for providing a

 Micro compost centre. It is stated in the counter affidavit that only tree

 leaves fallen and segregated, degradable waste from the surrounding

 localities of the park site are proposed to be collected and scientifically

 processed in the Micro compost centre to prepare manure to the farmers to

 be given to them at free of cost. It is also stated that only a small area of

 the park is being used and only degradable waste would be taken such as

 vegetable waste, tree leaves and other kitchen wastes collected from the

 households would be taken into compost yard for being converted into

 manure. http://www.judis.nic.in 7 5. Heard the learned counsel appearing for parties and perused the

 materials available on record. 6. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has relied on Bangalore Medical Trust Vs B.S.Muddappa & others , (1991) 4 SCC 54,

 wherein the Supreme Court of India did not permit allotting a land reserved

 for a park for the purpose of construction of a hospital. Similarly, reliance

 was placed on R.K.Mittal and others Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh , (2012) 2

 SCC 232, wherein again the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India did not permit

 the change of land use by holding that the decisions taken by development

 authority must confirm with the master plan and no decision can be taken

 to change land use without amending the master plan. The learned counsel

 for the petitioner also relied on Purushottam Vs State of Karnataka ,

 (2014) 3 SCC 721, wherein the Supreme Court of India did not permit the

 diversion of a land earmarked as a public park to residential colony. On the

 other hand, the learned counsel for the Municipality would contend that due

 to urbanization there is hardly any land left for use as a compost yard. It is

 argued that it is also one of the primary responsibilities of local

 Administrative Authorities to ensure proper management of waste

 generated by different categories of waste producers (house holds,

http://www.judis.nic.in 8 commercial centres, institutions, industries, etc.,) It is contended by the

 learned counsel for the Municipality that over the years the quantum of

 waste generated has increased in geometric progressions owing to increase

 in urbanization, population growth, change in life style etc., It is argued

 that only a small area of the park is being utilized for the compost yard and

 that too for converting tree leaves and household wastes into manure. It is

 also argued that whenever any area is identified for compost centre, the

 people living nearby oppose the move. 7. Having a proper waste management program is one of the biggest

 challenges which is being faced by any Municipality. Courts can take judicial

 notice of the increase in the industrial, commercial and residential waste.

 Due to rapid urbanization, virtually no space is available for dumping waste.

 The Municipalities have therefore to balance the competing interests of

 having parks/ lung space on one hand and dumping yards on the other hand.

 The Municipalities therefore cannot be found fault with for converting

 portions of parks into dumping yard. It is also the duty of the Municipality to

 ensure that the parks are maintained properly and that the entire park is

 not converted into dumping yard. The judgments relied on by the

 petitioners are not applicable to this case in hand. The land earmarked to

http://www.judis.nic.in 9 park is not being converted into hospitals or residential areas. The majority

 of the park is being kept intact and only a small portion of the park is being

 utilized for the compost yard and that too in which only vegetable waste,

 leaves of trees and household wastes would be converted to manure. It is

 also important to note that the provisions of the Solid Waste Management

 Rules,2016 does not apply to household waste and horticulture waste. 8. The issue raised in these writ petitions have already been raised

 before this Court in the case of Janakar Vs. The Commissioner, Hosur

 Municipality, Hosur in W.P.No.26704, 25653 and 26720 of 2017. The Writ

 Court on 08.11.2017, has passed following order:- http://www.judis.nic.in 10 13. The compost yard in a small portion of the park,
 cannot be said to be an encroachment, as the Municipality
 has not encroached upon any private property. It is pointed
 out by the learned counsel for the petitioners that there is
 no alternative site identified for compost yard. It is made
 clear that whenever a site is identified, the people will raise
 objections and in that process, good efforts to clear the
 garbage is being stalled as contended by the first
 respondent-Municipality. The contention that the
 respondents can take the garbage to some other place,
 cannot be accepted, as the Municipality's efforts to dump
 the garbage in another place, may be objected to by the
 residents in that area. As pointed out by the respondents, if
 the petitioners want to maintain healthy atmosphere, and if
 they should not face any health hazard, then they must
 come forward to use the compost yard for removing the
 garbage and other waste. The contention that the compost
 yard should be removed and taken to some other place,
 cannot be accepted in the facts and circumstances of the
 case. However, at the best, the petitioners can do so
 without preventing the compost yard being constructed in a
 portion of the park and they should ensure that the area is
 litter-free zone and regular fogging operations and other
 measures are being taken care of by the Municipality. If
 there is no activity for a day on account of any other reason,
 there is possibility of infectious and contagious diseases
 being spread. 14. Though the relief sought for by the petitioners
 cannot be granted, when the compost yard comes, the
 respondents shall ensure that it is cleaned twice a day and
 fogging the zone is also done, more particularly during
 sunset to avoid mosquito breed. That apart, the residents in
 the area shall also cooperate in keeping with the wastage in
 different forms, namely degradable and bio-degradable
 forms of segregation of waste. Though this Court would
 suggest that the Corporation/Municipality concerned shall
 provide degradable wastage disposal bags to each and every
 house, as there is possibility of scam in that process, this
 Court is avoiding such observation. The respondents must
 also be aware that the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Public
 Health Act are not only applicable to the residents, but also
 applicable to the Municipal authorities. If any defects are
http://www.judis.nic.in 11 pointed out by means of videograph or photograph by the
 residents with regard to the improper maintenance of the
 compost yard, the officers will be liable to pay costs and
 face prosecution as per law. 9. Similarly, a Division Bench of this Court by its order dated

 14.03.2018 in W.P.No.32938 of 2017 in the case of T.G.Ruthramani,

 Secretary, Poonamallee Nanbargal Nagar, Veettu Manai Urimaiyalargal

 Nalasangam, Poonamallee, Thiruvallur District, Chennai, Vs. The

 Member Secretary, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority,

 Thalamuthu Natarajan Maligal, Egmore, Chennai, has observed as under:- contained to prevent any spread of decaying matter or
 leachate into the surrounding environment. 17. Private lawns or public parks are not a
 luxury, as they were considered in the past. Public Park is
 a gift of modern civilization and that reservation of vacant
 land as an open land is in conformity with the rules and
 regulations for formation of the layout and is meant for
 public use and enjoyment and it cannot be disputed that
 Open Space Reserve is treated as lung space. http://www.judis.nic.in 13 18. The Apex Court has categorically held that
 where open space is preserved and earmarked in the plan
 for development of a planned town, the authorities cannot
 ignore the public interest and allot the same for
 construction of godowns, thereby causing environmental
 hazards. Ecology has been completely destroyed by human
 beings by encroaching OSR, playgrounds, river bunds,
 lakes, etc. But the official respondents must ensure that
 the waste has to be disposed of in a scientific manner. In a
 developing country, technicalities should not be a bar for
 development. 19. When a public park is a gift of modern
 civilization, Open Space Reserve is the lung space and
 setbacks are for the purpose of rain harvest, Micro
 Compost Yards are essential for disposal of the waste, so
 that it will not endanger the health of the citizens, more
 particularly, children, who are likely to be affected on
 account of mosquitoes, flies, etc, which cause air borne
 and water-borne diseases. When citizens want
 development, certainly, they will have to co-operate for
 the betterment of the environment and ensure that no
 pollution is caused on account of their attitude in
 disposing of the waste from their respective residence.
 Though, strictly speaking, Development Rules have come
 into effect in 1975 and that the layout in question was
 approved in 1972, there is no hard and fast rule that there
 cannot be any development at all. 20. Residents/citizens cannot expect the
 authorities to identify a different place far away from the
 place of residence to have a Compost Yard and that there
 is a possibility of the residents of that area to object for
 setting up of a Compost Yard for disposal of the waste
 which are not generated from their residence. 21. Now that the Government has come up with
 effective policies in segregation of wastes of all kinds,
 people are expected to welcome such measures and must
 co-operate with the authorities in maintaining a healthy
 environment. Even though garbage bins are set up in every
 street, it is painful to see people throw garbage near the
 bin and not into the bin. From stone-age, we have come
 to the modern era. Certainly development is required for
 our betterment and hence, technicalities should not come
 in the way that may be detrimental to the development of
http://www.judis.nic.in 14 the Society. 22. In view of the above and taking into account
 the submissions of the 1st respondent/Municipality that
 the Micro Compost Yard, that is to be set up in the
 Playground in question, will be neatly maintained without
 any pollution and that only a meagre portion of the
 Playground is required for setting up of Micro Compost
 Yard, this Court finds no reason to interfere with the
 impugned tender notice published by the 1st
 respondent/Municipality. 23. It is made clear that if the Micro Compost Yard
 that is to be set up in the Playground in question is not
 maintained properly, the officials, who are in-charge of
 that place during the relevant period shall be dismissed
 from service, on the ground that the Officer has failed to
 maintain absolute integrity, devotion to duty and that he
 has done the work of unbecoming of a member of his
 service. 11. As noticed in the above said judgments, it is the duty of the

 Municipal authorities to ensure that there is no nuisance created to the

 residents. The authorities shall ensure that the Micro Compost Plant is to be

 cleaned twice a day and is to be done very regularly to avoid mosquitoes

 breeding in the portion of park. It is the duty of the authorities to ensure

 the park to maintain properly. If the park is not maintained, it will be taken

 as contempt of the orders of this Court. http://www.judis.nic.in 15 12. Accordingly, these Writ Petitions are dismissed. There shall

 be no order as to costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions

 are closed.