Petitioner is said to be a victim of internet money chain

scam (allegedly) indulged by the 5th respondent. Petitioner,

learning that similar other persons are also cheated filed a

complaint before learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Thrissur on

14.12.2010. Grievance of petitioner is that though the 5th

respondent has violated provisions of the Foreign Exchange

Management Act and Prevention of Money Laundering Act no

action has been taken by the 4th respondent. Learned counsel

submitted that pursuant to the complaint petitioner had preferred

to the 4th respondent, he was summoned by that Officer and his

statement (Ext.R4[a]) was recorded. Petitioner claimed that he

has information regarding the (alleged) activities of the 5th

respondent in violation of the above said laws. Learned counsel

invited my attention to paragraph 4 of the counter affidavit of the

4th respondent. According to learned counsel, the 4th respondent

has expressed his willingness to conduct further enquiry in the

matter. It is therefore prayed that 4th respondent may be W.P(C) No.6004 of 2011 -: 2 :- directed to conduct further enquiry in the matter. 2. Learned counsel for 4th respondent submitted that the

statement in paragraph 4 of the counter affidavit is not the

expression of willingness to conduct enquiry as learned counsel

would interpret. It is pointed out that to conduct an enquiry as

prayed for, sufficient materials are required which petitioner has

not supplied. Hence willingness expressed in paragraph 4 of the

counter affidavit of 4th respondent need be understood as

willingness to conduct further enquiry on getting further

material from petitioner or elsewhere. Learned counsel for

petitioner submitted that based on the complaint filed by the

petitioner to the Thrissur West Police a case was registered on

20.10.2010. The Circle Inspector investigated the case, the 5th

respondent was arrested on 20.11.2010 and final report was filed

in the court of learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Thrissur on

28.11.2010. It is submitted that it is after the submission of final

report that Exts.P5 and P6, complaints are preferred by the

petitioner before the Thrissur West Police Station and Director

General of Police. 3. It is seen that pursuant to Ext.P8, complaint the 4th

respondent has initiated some action at least by recording W.P(C) No.6004 of 2011 -: 3 :- statement of petitioner (Ext.R4[a]). The 4th respondent has to look

into the matter whether as alleged by the petitioner, 5th

respondent has violated provisions of Foreign Exchange

Management Act and Prevention of Money Laundering Act.

Petitioner shall supply all materials available with him to the 4th

respondent. The 4th respondent has to collect materials from all

sources as far as possible and if necessary by referring to the final

report submitted by the police also and conduct the enquiry. I

need not say what all materials the 4th respondent has to collect.

I need only mention that the 4th respondent shall conduct enquiry

in the matter collecting materials from whatever sources it is

available. Petitioner shall also co-operate with the 4th respondent

in that regard. Writ Petition is closed with the above observations and

directions. THOMAS P. JOSEPH, JUDGE. vsv