CAV Order 1. This is first bail application filed by the applicant under Section 439 of the

 Cr.P.C. read with Section 45 and 65 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,

 2002 (hereinafter called as 'the PMLA, 2002) for grant of regular bail to the

 applicant who has been arrested on 12-01-2024 for the offence under Section 3 and 4 of the PMLA, 2002. 2. The brief facts of the case are that an ECIR bearing No.RPZO/10/2022 has

 been registered on 02-09-2023 under Sections 3 and 4 of the PMLA, 2002 against Digitally signed by MOHAMMAD AADIL KHAN 2 various accused persons by the Enforcement Directorate (in short 'the ED').

Initially, the name of the present applicant was not there in ECIR dated 06-10-2022

and 02-09-2023 as accused. Total 6 FIRs have been registered against various

accused persons for the offence of cheating and criminal conspiracy which relates

to Online betting App by the name of Mahadev App. The final reports/FIRs have

been annexed by the ED along with its complaint dated 20-10-2023 in its first

prosecution complaint. The search was conducted at the premises of Vikas

Chhapariya in Kolkata and Mr. Govind Kediya. It is alleged that Sourabh

Chandrakar and Ravi Uppal shown to be promoters of the said Mahadev Online

betting App and Vikas Chhapariya is having a strong link with the said promoters

Sourabh Chandrakar and Ravi Uppal. At the time when Sourabh Chandrakar got

married outside India, the said Vikas Chhapariya had made payments to the

vendors of the wedding, therefore, Vikas Chhapariya had a strong link with the

promoters. When the premises of Govind Kediya was searched, from his laptop it

was found that certain information was shared by him with Vikas Chhapariya. It is

also found that among many other account details, Govind Kediya was sharing

account details of Nitin Tibrewal with Vikas Chhapariya and thereafter the

statement of Govind Kediya was recorded by the ED on 08-09-2023 and 10-09-

2023. On 09-09-2023 the ED issued a summons to the present applicant. The ED

has recorded several statements of the present applicant, i.e., on 16-09-2023, 26-

09-2023, 27-09-2023, 29-09-2023, and 30-09-2023 under Section 50 of the PMLA,

2002. On 20-10-2023 when the ED had filed its first prosecution complaint under Section 44 read with Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002 for the offence under Sections

3 and 4 of the PMLA, 2002 against 14 accused persons, but in that complaint, the

present applicant was not arrayed as an accused. On the first complaint, he was

shown to be a witness. On 07-12-2023 the ED again issued a summons to the

applicant to appear on 11-12-2023, but due to ill health, he sought for extension of 3 two weeks and sent a message to the ED on 08-12-2023. On 01-01-2024, the ED

filed its supplementary prosecution complaint in which also the applicant was not

arrayed as an accused. On 11-01-2024 the applicant appeared before the ED and

at this time the applicant was restrained under the custody of the ED for the whole

of the night. He was not permitted to leave the ED office despite there being no

summons issued against him. His statement was abstracted on 11-01-2024 and he

was not provided any further time to clarify his previous statements. The applicant

was detained by the ED for all practical purposes on 11-01-2024 and continued to

remain there on 12-01-2024 without there being any summons. On 12-01-2024 the

applicant was formally arrested at 11:00 a.m. The applicant was produced before

the learned Special Judge, PMLA, Raipur and then the learned Special Judge,

PMLA, Raipur was pleased to grant ED remand of the applicant till 17-01-2024. In

between this period, his statement was again recorded on 15-01-2024, 16-01-2024

and 17-01-2024. On 17-01-2024 further ED remand of the applicant was granted

by the learned Special Judge, PMLA, Raipur till 22-01-2024 and then again the

statement of the applicant under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 was recorded on

21-01-2024. On 22-01-2024 the learned Special Judge, PMLA, Raipur granted

judicial remand of the applicant. On 11-03-2024 the ED had filed its second supplementary prosecution

complaint in the present ECIR under Sections 44 and 45 of the PMLA, 2002 for the

offence under Sections 3 and 4 of the PMLA, 2002 against three accused persons

and in this supplementary prosecution complaint the applicant is also arrayed as an

accused. In the supplementary prosecution complaint dated 11-03-2024 it is alleged

against the applicant that the applicant Nitin Tibrewal was the majority shareholder

in the company M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC., Vikas Chhapariya had invested the

proceeds of crime in the Indian stock market under the Foreign Portfolio

Investment route through various companies including M/s Techpro IT Solutions

LLC. As per the bank account statement of M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. for the 4 period between 01-03-2020 to 23-01-2021, M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. has

paid Nitin Tibrewal approximately 20,70,000 AED. The applicant has also stated in

his statement that he has not purchased any property, whereas, on being searched

online on the Government website of Land Records Department, UAE by his

passport No.R0466309 it revealed that the applicant owns a property in UAE. The involvement of the present applicant with the proceeds of crime is also

corroborated by his attempt to disassociate himself from M/s Techpro IT Solutions

LLC. The applicant has also admitted that he was involved in share market trading

in association with Vikas Chhapariya. From Govind Kediya, who was a friend of the

present applicant, digital devices were seized from him which also revealed that he

was sharing an Excel account statement related to the present applicant's

investment with Vikas Chhapariya. It is also alleged in the prosecution complaint that the present applicant is

also found to be associated with Sky Exchange which is also an illegal betting

website and associated with the persons at the highest level of Sky Exchange and

thus, the applicant enjoyed the proceeds of crime and is involved in the

concealment, layering and use of proceeds of crime and has committed the offence

of money laundering as defined under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002 which is

punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA, 2002. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant would submit that the applicant is not an

accused in the predicate offence as per Public Gambling (C.G. Amendment) Act,

1976 . The alleged offence is not a scheduled offence. In reply filed by the ED, they

have admitted that the proceeds of crime are only the money generated from the

bogus/benami accounts used by the Online Mahadev App. The document of the

bank account statement of M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC., reveals that the money

was received by the company through legitimate sources and not from any bogus

bank account. The only link between M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. and Mahadev

Online Book is the statement of Govind Kediya and the applicant himself recorded

under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002. Govind Kediya is neither accused nor a 5 witness, he has not named the present applicant or M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC.

and stated only that Vikas Chhapariya earned money through his association with

Mahadev Online Book App. He would also submit that the knowledge and mens rea

is an essential ingredients to establish the offence of money laundering punishable

under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002 and the same is missing in the present case that

the applicant had any knowledge or mens rea that Mahadev Online Book App was

using some bogus bank account for transactions. To link the applicant with the Sky

Exchange betting App, the statements of Preeti Rathi, Prashant Bagariya and

Kamal Kishore Rathi are there which are recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA,

2002. Prashant Bagariya and Kamal Kishore are co-accused persons in the present

case and their statements were recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 since

they are accomplish, their statements are not admissible and are not qualified as

evidence under Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act. Further, Preeti Rathi is neither

an accused nor a witness in the case. Further, Kamal Kishore Rathi and Preeti Rathi

have retracted their statement by filing their affidavit before the learned Special

Judge, PMLA, 2002, Raipur and thus, the retracted statement cannot be considered

to be evidence against the applicant. It is further argued by the learned counsel for the applicant that ED cannot

proceed with the pick and chose method in arraying the applicant as accused in the

present case when M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. and Govind Kediya who have

allegedly dealt with the proceeds of crime from Mahadev Online Book App have not

been arrayed as accused and Prashant Bagariya and Kamal Kishore Rathi have not

been arrested. The applicant was illegally detained/restrained on 11-01-2024 without any

formal arrest and furnished the ground of arrest on 12-01-2024 only. Without there

being any sufficient material against the applicant was arrested which is malafide. The Money Laundering Act come into only when a scheduled offence is committed.

Running the Mahadev Online Book App is not a scheduled offence which has been

admitted by the ED in its reply that Mahadev Online Book App is not illegal and 6 scheduled offence the ED has said that an unauthorized bank account has been

opened which amounts to cheating and forgery and therefore, that is scheduled

offence. There is no reference to any scheduled offence committed by the applicant. Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA, 2002 defines the proceeds of crime and Section 3 defines money laundering, therefore, there has to be a criminal activity that is

connected with the scheduled offence and if any person generates some money

which will come under the definition of proceed of crime which is defined under Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA, 2002, therefore, the sine qua non is the existence of

scheduled offence and the existence of proceeds of crime generated from the

scheduled offence. The Mahadev Online Book App is not a scheduled offence,

opening of bank account is scheduled offence and therefore, money generated in

terms of Section 2(1)(u) is the money generated from the bank account. The

allegation against the present applicant is that he received proceeds of crime, but

the ED could not identify the proceeds of crime. Mahadev Online Book App is not a

scheduled offence that has been admitted by the ED. The applicant is involved in the second prosecution complaint. He would

further submit that not a single player or a person who is playing in the game is the

victim of the offence and no complaint has been made by them, no person is saying

that they have been cheated. The Enforcement Directorate unilaterally stated that it

is cheating and illegal. He would further submit that the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

the case of Vijay Madan Lal Choudhary Vs. Union of India, (2022) SCC Online

SC 929 has held that the foundational facts to establish money laundering criminal

activity related to scheduled offence has been committed, property in question has

been derived or obtained directly or indirectly, by any person as a result of criminal

activity and the person concerned is directly or indirectly involved in a process or

activity connected with the said property being proceeds of crime. He would rely

upon para 343 of the Vijay Madan Lal Choudhari's case (supra). ED has failed to

demonstrate that the property in question has been derived or obtained directly or

indirectly by the present applicant as result of that criminal activity as they have 7 failed to prove any nexus between such proceeds of crime and the applicant. There

is no evidence on record to show that the proceeds of crime generated through

predicated offence have been concealed, possessed, acquired or used and claimed

as untainted property by the applicant. The ED has made some vague allegations

against the applicant that he is in association with another App namely Sky

Exchange. However, there is no evidence on record that the applicant actually has a

nexus with Sky Exchange. In the first prosecution complaint, the ED has projected

Vikas Chhapariya as the owner of M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. whereas, in the

second prosecution complaint the transaction in the M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC.

is said to be by the present applicant, which is self-contradictory. As per the case of

the ED, Vikas Chhapariya is the beneficiary owner of M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC.

and not the applicant and the said M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. was being utilized

by Vikas Chhapariya to invest the tainted money in the Indian stock market through

FBI route. From Dubai bank statement and other documents, clearly reveal that the

said income of M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. derived from trading profit in the

Dubai Gold and Commodities Exchange. Only on account of the business relation of

the applicant with Vikas Chhapariya, he has been made accused in the ECIR. Vikas

Chhapariya was a neighbour of the present applicant in Kolkata for a long time and

both of them were stock market investors and traders then they opened the Techpro

company in UAE for the purpose of commodity trading in Dubai Gold and

Commodities Exchange by Vikas Chhapariya. All the transactions in the bank

account of M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. are credit entries and there is no source

even alleged to be proceeds of crime. The funds credited into the Dubai account of

M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. are the profits from commodity trading which cannot

be termed to be proceeds of crime and the said profits were earned by utilizing the

credit provided by brokerage company Arab Global Commodities. It has not been

alleged that proceeds of crime from the Mahadev Online Book App were credited

into the bank of M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. Learned counsel for the applicant would further argue that apart from the M/s 8 Techpro IT Solutions LLC. the ED has alleged that the applicant is jointly owned by

another entity Vikas Chhapariya in the name of M/s Lexis Retail LLP which is

incorporated in India. The M/s Lexis Retail LLP is a Government entity that has not

conducted any business of a single rupee and there is no investment by the

applicant in the said company. The culpability of the applicant is based on an Excel

sheet that was retrieved from the digital device owned by Govind Kediya and the

said Excel sheet was shared by Govind Kediya to Vikas Chhapariya which

purportedly contained financial documents relating to the applicant. There is nothing

to show that these financial transactions were actually carried out. Further, it is not

the case of the ED that such financial transactions were the proceeds of crime. The

ED is in a hypothetical assumption that since Govind Kediya shared the financial

transactions with Vikas Chhapariya, therefore, these were the part of Benami

investment of Vikas Chhapariya. He would also submit that the property which was

purchased by the present applicant in UAE is in fact to obtain Amirat's card,

however, the said property was sold by the applicant in March 2023 and sale

proceeds were deposited by the applicant into the account of M/s Techpro IT

Solutions LLC. It was purchased only to obtain a Visa and to obtain Amirat's ID to

travel to UAE. Only on the basis of a search in the Government website of the

Revenue Department of UAE, it would not be sufficient to hold that the applicant has

purchased the property in UAE. Since the applicant had sold the property in the

month of March 2023 in UAE for an amount of 37,50,750 AED, an amount of

20,70,000 AED was deposited in the bank account of M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC.

Further, the son of the applicant who is suffering from dyslexia was no longer

interested in pursuing his business in UAE, so the said amount was returned to the

bank account of M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. The ED has miserably failed to connect the applicant with the investment

along with Vikas Chhapariya and therefore, a concocted story was developed by the

ED that the applicant is involved in another betting App namely Sky Exchange.

None of the predicate offences are related to any transaction of Sky Exchange. 9 It is also part of the argument of learned counsel for the applicant that against

the applicant the statement of two persons are there in the case, i.e., Govind Kediya

and Vinit Parekh of M/s Orbis Financial Company Ltd. Their statement recorded

under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 have been considered as substantive evidence

against the present applicant, whereas, in the matter of Amit Agrawal Vs.

Directorate of Enforcement reported in 2024 SCC Online Delhi 141, the Hon'ble

Delhi High Court has held that the statements made by co-accused/witness under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002, their evidentiary value can be tested at the stage of

trial. No generation of proceeds of crime from criminal activity. The bail application

of the applicant in that case was allowed. He would also rely upon another judgment

passed by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the matter of Chandra Prakash

Khandelwal Vs. Directorate of Enforcement reported in 2023 SCC Online Delhi

1095 and Vijay Agrawal Vs. Enforcement of Directorate, reported in (2023) 2 SCC

Delhi 651. The statement of Vinit Parekh only suggests the applicant's involvement in

M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. and does not suggest that the funds were obtained

through criminal activity and the statement of Govind Kediya is limited to the extent

of Vikas Chhapariya coming into contact with Mahadev operations after December,

2021 and nothing against the applicant against his statement. The ED has acted unfairly and arbitrarily to arrest the applicant without any

sufficient ground, whereas, the other persons having similar allegation with that of

the present applicant have neither been made as accused nor been arrested.

Govind Kediya who invested funds on the instruction of Vikas Chhapariya and his

friends have not been made as an accused. Govind Kediya has categorically stated

the names of various persons related to Vikas Chhapariya on whose instructions he

invested money in the stock market, but none of those individuals have been made

as accused in the case. The ED has miserably failed to prima facie demonstrate the

requisite mens rea in the alleged act of the applicant to exhibit his knowledge or

active participation in any act with proceeds of crime with respect to the scheduled 10 offence. The allegation against the present applicant does not indicate any

involvement in the predicate offence or even his knowledge to constitute the alleged

offence, therefore, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the applicant is not

guilty of an offence under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002. The applicant has not

played any role with respect to the Mahadev Online Book App or with the proceeds

of crime. The present applicant had no role in either the creation or management of

the Mahadev Online Book App or any incidental activity of online betting. He was

neither the main perpetrator of the crime nor even incidentally connected to the

alleged proceeds of crime generated by the Mahadev App. The allegation against

the applicant made in the complaint dated 11-03-2024 is surrounded by a cloud of

doubt and except for assumptions there is no clinching and cogent evidence

produced by the ED against the applicant that he has dealt with the proceeds of

crime in any manner. It is also submitted that the arrest of the applicant is illegal and malafide as

the statement of the applicant has been recorded six times before the filing of first

prosecution complaint dated 20-10-2023 and till that day the applicant was not

made as an accused. The applicant has been made an accused only on the

frustration that the main person Vikas Chhapariya who is the allegedly beneficiary

owner of M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. and is an accused in the case has obtained

the passport of Vanuatu and is not available for trial. On 11-01-2024 the applicant

was illegally detained by the ED without any summons and was arrested on 12-01-

2024 in the case, which violates Section 19 of the PLMA, 2002. The statement of

the applicant has been recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 after his

arrest which hit by Section 25 of the Evidence Act and Article 20(3) of the

Constitution of India. The applicant cooperates at every stage of the investigation and appears

before the ED on multiple occasions as and when they are required for

investigation. There is reasonable grounds to believe that the applicant is not guilty

of such an offence of money laundering. The applicant is a well-reputed individual 11 with having good reputation in the society and community. He does not have any

criminal antecedent. The applicant is the sole breadwinner of his family and has to

take care of his father who is very old and is suffering from various ailments. The

son of the applicant is suffering from dyslexia and the applicant has to cater for the

needs of his son. The applicant is also required to take care of his wife who has

undergone surgery and requires consistent supervision and assistance. The

applicant has been languishing in jail since 12-01-2024 and the commencement and

conclusion of the trial will take its own time as the number of accused persons are

still not arrested. The appellant is to abide by all the conditions which may imposed

by the Hon'ble Court while granting bail to him with the undertaking that he will not

tamper with any evidence or to influence any witness of the case. The investigation

against the present applicant has been completed and a complaint case has already

been filed on 11-03-2024 before the learned trial Court. He is ready to deposit his

passport and to comply any other condition imposed by this Hon'ble Court.

Therefore, the applicant may be enlarged on regular bail. 4. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent/Directorate of Enforcement,

apart from the reply in writing submitted to the application by them has opposed the

arguments made by learned counsel for the applicant and submitted that an ECIR

bearing No. RPZO/10/2022 is recorded against Mahadev Online book to investigate

the matter under the PMLA, Act 2002 on the basis of charge sheet No.157/2022

dated 29-07-2022 filed by police station Mohan Nagar, District Durg against Alok

Singh Rajput, Rampravesh Sahu, Kharag @ Raja Singh and others for the offence

under Section 120B and 420 of the IPC alleging in it that the accused persons are

involved in online betting in live ludo, football, casino game and amass through

Mahadev book. On being secret information, the raid was conducted and aforesaid

accused persons were taken into custody who had prepared a set-up with laptops by

which they collected money by creating an Online ID and then the said money was put

in bet for others through Mahadev Online book on online cricket match, horse racing,

greyhound racing and Kabaddi etc. Various laptops, mobile phones, passbooks of 12 various banks, debit/credit cards, sim cards, chequebooks and cash were seized

from the premises and an investigation under the PMLA, 2002 was undertaken after

recording of the ECIR. During the course of the investigation, it came into

knowledge that various FIRs have also been registered all over the country for

illegal online betting through Mahadev book and one of the FIRs of Crime

No.206/2023 dated 02-06-2023 was registered by Andhra Pradesh police, P.S.

Cyber Crime, Vishakhapatnam Commissionerate for the offence under Section 419,

420, 467, 468, 471, 120 read with Section 34 of the IPC, 66C, 66 D of Information

Technology Act, 2000 and Section 3 and 4 of Andhra Pradesh Gambling Act. The Andhra Pradesh Police has further come to the knowledge that 21

persons were running call centres for the operation of the Mahadev App. and they

were collecting money from punters who intended to put bets and deposited the

money in bank accounts shared through WhatsApp groups. Those persons put their

bets on websites like Tiger Exchange, Gold 365, Lesser 247, Cricket Buzz.com, and

Play 247.win, Sky Exchange.com and Cricket Bet Nine.com. The money made from

the said app was transferred to different bank accounts till it was siphoned to a

person named Sourabh Chandrakar who lives in Dubai. The Govt. has blocked the

illegal betting website Mahadev Book. It also comes into knowledge that Sourabh

Chandrakar, Ravi Uppal, Kapil Chelani and Satish Kumar who are also residing in

Dubai, are known to operate close to 60 illegal offshore gambling websites such as

Lotus 365, Fair Play, Reddy Anna, Lesser Book, Tiger Exchange, Bad book 247 and

Gold 365. Several cases relating to fraud and illegal activities have been registered

against Sourabh Chandrakar. Various FIRs have been registered against various

individuals for being involved in illegal betting operations through the Mahadev book

app and those FIRs are at P.S. Gudhiyari, Raipur, P.S. Bhilai Bhatthi, District Durg,

P.S. Khamtarai, Raipur etc. The FIR of Crime No.6/2024 registered by EOW, Raipur

C.G. for the offence under Section 120B , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 34 of the IPC and Section 7 and 11 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (as amended on 2018)

registered against Sourabh Chandrakar, Ravi Uppal, Shubham Soni, Harishankar 13 Tibrewal and others for being involved in betting operations through Mahadev

Online book, Sky Exchange and other betting apps. The FIR No.206/2020

registered in the Burtola P.S., Kolkata, West Bengal for the offence under Section

120B and 420 of the IPC and Section 3 and 4 of the West Bengal Price and Cheat

Company Act has also been registered against Harishankar Tibrewal, Suraj

Chokhani and others for being engaged in online betting. He would further submit that Mahadev's online book provides an online

platform for illegal betting in different live games like cricket, badminton, tennis,

football etc. and also provides facilities for playing a number of card games like teen

patti, poker, dragon tiger, virtual cricket game etc.

 To create an appearance of genuineness for this illegal betting racket

Mahadev Online Book the promoters have a company registered in the name M/s

Mahadev Book Market Limited in the country of Sent Vincent and the Grenadines

under the directorship in the name of Shubham Soni who is part of top management

of Mahadev Online book. Sourabh Chandrakar and Ravi Uppal are the main

promoters and beneficiary owners of this betting syndicate. The Mahadev online

book operates from abroad and provides WhatsApp contact numbers on the

websites. Once a user contacts the number, he will be provided two separate

contact numbers. One contact number is to be utilized for depositing money and

collecting points in IDs and the second number is for contacting the website to

encash points accumulated in the designated IDs. The IDs are generally created on

multiple websites depending on the needs and preferences of the betters. The

betting app is operated by various panels/branches which are sold by the promoters

and they keep 70-75% of the profit of the panel operations. A panel has an owner

and workers normally four in number. One person can own multiple panels. The

office of promoters in Dubai is commonly known as the head office by the panel

owners and the said panel owners can create user profiles of players/punters. The

panel operators are allotted fixed credits which can be transferred to any

player/punter and credits are allocated to the players against payments in 14 designated bank accounts. The players/punters who want to play online betting

through Mahadev Book via WhatsApp number given on the website of Mahadev

Book then head office refers these players/punters to the panel. After receiving the

details of the panel the players/punters deposit a minimum amount of Rs.100/- with

no maximum amount for online betting. The panel owners receive the funds from

customers into benami bank accounts which are arranged by the panel owners.

These bank accounts are either opened fraudulently or loaned for commission.

Thousands of employees are working in the call centre in Dubai which operates

multiple WhatsApp groups for each panel. Weekly account sheets are shared with

the panel owners by head office which contain statements of all bets, total profit or

total loss. The panel owners are supposed to remit the shares of the Mahadev head

office via hawala routs on a regular basis. During the course of the investigation, the bank account statements of

various bank accounts gathered through intelligence were called for. After analysing

the said bank accounts trends of funds have led ED to the doorstep of multiple

entities that either remit money outside India or withdraw it as cash. It is suspected

that thousands of crores of illegal betting proceeds which are nothing but proceeds

of crime have been remitted outside India. The promoters of the Mahadev online

book have also set up mini-companies in Dubai to route money and also to facilitate

Visa services to the staff of the Mahadev online book working there. It was also

found that one Harishankar Tibrewal, who hails from Kolkata and currently residing

in Dubai is the partner of promoters of Mahadev Online Book on being search of his

premises in Kolkata, it was found that Harishankar Dibrewal owned and operated

one of the illegal betting website i.e. Sky Exchange. The present applicant Nitin Tibrewal was the majority shareholder in the

company M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. Vikas Chhapariya was investing the

proceeds of crime emanating out of the betting operations of Mahadev Online Book

in the Indian stock market under Foreign Portfolio Investment (FBI) route various

companies including M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. The applicant Nitin Tibrewal has 15 admitted that Vikas Chhapariya has amassed significant wealth due to his

association with Mahadev Online Book. As per the bank account statement of M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. for the

period between 01-03-2020 to 23-01-2021, it is evident that M/s Techpro IT

Solutions LLC. have paid the present applicant Nitin Tibrewal approximately

20,70,000 AED during the course of just four months. In his statement applicant,

Nitin Tibrewal denied from purchase of any property in Dubai, however, from

searching of the online Govt. website of the Land Record Department, UAE, by

using his passport number, it was revealed that Nitin Tibrewal owned a property in

UAE. He was also found to be associated at the highest level of Sky Exchange and

he has been named by various persons to be associated with Sky Exchange. The

digital record featuring his name have also been found from a device seized during

the course of search conducted against the persons associated with Sky Exchange.

His name has also appeared in statement of Mr. Prashant Bagariya who was having

admin excess of Sky Exchange, who stated that Nitin Tibrewal is one of the admin

of Sky Exchange and has obtained many admin IDs from Harishankar Tibrewal. As

per this digital evidence, Nitin Tibrewal was earning Rs.2 crore per month from

illegal betting operations through Sky Exchange. Considering the role played by the present applicant Nitin Tibrewal in

commission of offence of money laundering under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002, he

was arrested on 12-01-2024 at 11 a.m. The prosecution complaint has already been

filed against the present application at Special Court, PMLA Raipur. It is further

submitted by learned counsel for the respondent that the ED has identified the

proceeds of crime and its realization by the betting syndicate. The proceeds in

question were being generated by the Mahadev Online Book through various

bogus/benami bank accounts. The illegal funds belonging to Mahadev Online Book

is transferred through bogus/benami bank accounts which is the proceeds of crime

as per Section 2(1)(u) of PMLA, 2002. From the material collected during the

investigation, it has also been identified that the amount generated from Mahadev 16 Online Book has been utilized in purchasing immovable properties, investing in the

Indian share market, organizing star-studded events, payments of liaisoning money

for smooth betting operations, investment in bitcoin USDT, acquiring business of

competitors etc.

 From the statement of Nitish Diwan, it comes that many cell companies have

been incorporated in the UAE to route the betting money. Sourabh Chandrakar and

Vikas Chhapariya have formed a company named as M/s Perfect Plan Investment

LLC. and subsequently all the shares had been transferred in the name of Vikas

Chhapariya. Vikas Chhapariya is the shareholder along with present applicant Nitin

Tibrewal in M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. and with Anil Kumar Agrawal @ Atul

Agrawal (partner in Mahadev Online Book) in M/s Exim General Trading GZCO.

From the statement of Nitish Diwan the association of Vikas Chhapariya with M/s

Techpro IT Solutions LLC. was sufficient to believe that said M/s Techpro IT

Solutions LLC. was being used to invest the betting proceeds and investing it in the

Indian share market. The digital records coupled with the statement recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 of the applicant clearly establish the link of the

applicant with the illegal betting website Sky Exchange and the generation of

proceeds of crime through it. From the statement of Prashant Bagariya and other

persons associated with Sky Exchange, the involvement of present applicant Nitin

Tibrewal is clearly established. From the statement of Ms. Preeti Rathi who is sister

of Nitin Tibrewal and her husband Kamal Kishore Rathi further confirmed that Nitin

Tibrewal was engaged in Online betting through Sky Exchange. From the Excel

sheet discovered from the premises of Govind Kediya it was found that the financial

statement of the present applicant was shared with Vikas Chhapariya and the ED

has discovered an association of the present applicant with M/s Techpro IT

Solutions LLC. The role of the present applicant clearly reveals his involvement in

the offence of money laundering which ultimately led to his arrest on 12-01-2024. In

his statement during the remand proceeding the applicant has categorically stated

that he never purchased any property in UAE, however, in the present application 17 he claims that he had transferred the sale proceeds of property to M/s Techpro IT

Solutions LLC. which itself shows that the property purchased by the present

applicant in UAE has been concealed by him which gives further presumption of

suspicion. It is also submitted that the applicant admittedly knew about the association

of Vikas Chhapariya with the illegal betting operation of Mahadev Online Book. He

knew that Vikas Chhapariya had made a huge amount through the Mahadev Online

Book and the applicant was associated with Vikas Chhapariya, therefore, it cannot

be said that the applicant did not know about the illegal betting operations of

Mahadev Online Book. Further, the applicant was one of the admins of another

illegal betting website Sky Exchange and the admin can create a master ID which

further creates a player ID for betting. Therefore, he was under the knowledge that

the betting operations of Sky Exchange are illegal and funds generated from it

would come under the ambit of proceeds of crime. Immediately after the arrest of the applicant on 12-01-2024, his brother-in-law

Kamal Rathi had been duly informed about the arrest of the applicant on his mobile

No.9831591836 at 12:30 p.m. on 12-01-2024 itself. His arrest has been made in

accordance with law. On the statement of Rishabh Bagarecha who was President of

M/s Orbis Financial Corporation Ltd. recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002

on 02-11-2023 in which it comes that it has provided services to Foreign Portfolio

Investment registration including M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. and after analysing

of the documents and subsequent investigation the role of the applicant in the

money laundering activities linked with Mahadev Online Book was found and

therefore, he was arrested on 12-01-2024. Section45 of the PMLA, 2002, says the

reasonable ground for believing which prima facie means that the Court has to see

whether there is genuine case against the accused or not. The prosecution is not

required to prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt at this stage. There is

sufficient evidence against the present applicant involving him in the offence in

question. He would also submit that the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vijay Madan Lal 18 Choudhary's case (supra) upheld the validity of Section 45(1) of the PMLA, 2002. He would further submit that in Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy Vs. CBI , reported in (2013)

7 SCC 439 that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that the economic offences

constitute clause apart and need to be visited with a different approach in the matter

of bail. The economic offences having deep routed conspiracy and involving huge

loss of public funds need to be viewed seriously and considered as grave offences

affecting the economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing serious threat

to the financial health of the country. It is further submitted that all the key persons involved in the scam are

relocated to the UAE. There is every chance of the applicant seeking to defeat the

process of law in India. The applicant has obtained an Amirates ID of UAE and there

is every apprehension of fleeing from India. There is every possibility of tempering

with the witnesses and evidence of the case as just before participating in the

investigation the applicant lost his mobile phone which contains digital records

relevant to the present matter. Further relying upon the judgment passed by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Gurvinder Singh Vs. State of Punjab in the order dated

07-02-2024 passed in CRA No.704/2024 submitted that the trial proceeding of the

case will take time and cannot be a ground to grant bail. He would further submit

that there is sufficient evidence against the present applicant which prima facie

establishes his involvement in the offence in question and in view of the nature of

the offence, the applicant is not entitled to grant of bail. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material

available on record. 6. For consideration of the bail application under PMLA, 2002 the Court need

not go deep inside the merits of the case but should consider the prima facie

material against the accused in the case. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter

of Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary case (supra) has observed in para 401 of its

judgment that:- 7. In the case of Satish Jaggi Vs. State of Chhattisgarh , (2007) 11 SCC 195,

the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that "at the stage of granting of bail, the Court

can only go into the question of prima facie case established for granting bail, it

cannot go into the question of credibility and reliability of witnesses put up by the

prosecution. The question of credibility and reliability of prosecution witnesses can

only be tested during trial." 8. The Delhi High Court in its order dated 07-03-2024 passed in Bail

Application No.3807/2022 ( Sanjay Jain Vs. Enforcement Directorate ) after

relying upon the observations made in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary

(Supra) has observed in para 49 that:- 9. In the present case the applicant Nitin Tibrewal has stated in his statement

recorded under Section 50 of the PLMA, 2002 that he was a partner of Lexis

Residency LLP along with Vikas Chhapariyaand in November 2022 his sister-in-law

was made partner in place of Vikas Chhapariya in the said Lexis Residency LLP. He

has not invested in any foreign concern and has not connected with any company in

the UAE. He also denied that he in any manner is associated with M/s Techpro IT

Solutions LLC. To obtain Amirat's ID he has given his photographs and ID to Vikas

Chhapariya on whose instruction he is shown to be the holder of said company

which is required for obtaining Amirat's ID. He has never made any signature on any

of the documents and his forged signature has been made by the said Vikas

Chhapariya. He never connected with the said M/s Techpro IT Solutions LlC. Even

he denied the various transactions in the bank account of Dubai branch of Bank of

Baroda maintained by the said Techpro IT Solutions LLC. He further stated that

since he was not involved in M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC., therefore, he does not

know about any transaction. He could not explain for what reason all the acts had

been done by Vikas Chhapariya in his name. He also denied using of other mobile 21 numbers except mobile No.6293012345 for about one year and other mobile

numbers are used by his wife, sister and father. The applicant has denied any

relation with the said Techpro IT Solutions LLC., whereas, the documents show that

he was a 70% shareholder of the said Techpro IT Solutions LLC. It is not possible

for anyone that without his knowledge or active participation, one can open a

company showing him to be partner of the company having 70% share and opening

of bank account, various transactions through bank account and he did not know

about anything. 10. Smt. Preeti Rathi who is the sister of the present applicant, has stated in her

statement recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 that her brother was

working as a broker in the share market and she was also assisting in his

accounting. She was engaged in cash dealing with respect to her brother's

business. The photographs shared in the mobile chat are of the betting assistant

App. which has been sent by her brother Nitin Tibrewal to maintain its record. She

also admitted that her brother is engaged in Online gambling since 2021-22 and

despite her efforts, he is not coming out from it and continuing with the gambling

activity. He engaged in online betting through the Sky Exchange online App. She

also stated about cash dealing with respect to her brother's business and further

admitted the conversation between her and her brother Nitin Tibrewal that he will go

to Dubai from where he will manage the work of betting. 11. The bank account statement of M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. shows that

approximately, 20,70,000 AED have been paid to the present applicant by the M/s

Techpro IT Solutions LLC. in just four months between 01-03-2020 to 23-01-2021.

Since the statement of the present applicant that he has not purchased any property

in Dubai, from the online website of the Land Records Department, it appears that

he has owned property in UAE. The applicant is also found to be associated at the

highest level of Sky Exchange betting website. The applicant has been named by

various persons to be associated with Sky Exchange. In the statement of Prashant 22 Bagari recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 who had admin excess of Sky

Exchange, stated in his statement that the present applicant Nitin Tibrewal is one of

the admin of Sky Exchange, who had obtained many admin IDs from Hari Shankar

Tibrewal. From the entire material, it appears that the present applicant was earning

Rs.2 crore per month from illegal betting operations. In the statement of Nitish

Diwan who had worked at the highest level of Mahadev Online App in Dubai, he

stated that one Sourabh Chandrakar had formed a company named M/s. Perfect

Plan Investment LLC in Dubai and earnings of online betting applications were

being used for purchasing assets in the name of the company. Sourabh Chandrakar

and Vikas Chhapariya were shareholders of M/s. Perfect Plan Investment LLC. and

subsequently, all the assets were transferred in the name of Vikas Chhapariya. The

said Vikas Chhapariya is also a shareholder along with present applicant Nitin

Tibrewal in M/s. Techpro IT Solutions LCC. with Anil Agrawal @ Atul Agrawal who

was also a partner in Mahadev Online Book, therefore, there is strong reason to

believe that M/s Techpro IT Solutions LLC. was also being used to invest the betting

proceeds. 12. The criminal activity of opening bogus/benami bank accounts and utilizing

them for illegal online betting therefore the illegal funds belonging to Mahadev

Online Book being transferred through the bogus bank account is the proceeds of

crime as defined under Section 2(1)(u) of PMLA, 2002. The digital record seized in

the case and from the statements recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002

clearly establishes the link of the present applicant with the illegal betting website

Sky Exchange and the generation of proceeds of crime through it. In the statement

of Prashant Bagari recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002, the involvement

of the present applicant Nitin Tibrewal at the highest level of Sky Exchange clearly

appeared which corroborates the statement Smt. Preeti Rathi and Kamal Kishore

Rathi the present applicant Nitin Tibrewal was engaged in online betting through

Sky Exchange. 13. The proceeds of crime have been defined under Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA,

2002 which reads as under:- 14. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Vs.

CBI , reported in (2013) 7 SCC 439 has held in para 34 and 35 of its judgment that- 15. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary (supra) 24 has observed in para 398 as under :- 16. Having considered the rival submissions made by the respective parties and

also from the material produced in the present case, it is not acceptable that the

present applicant did not know about the transactions in either from Techpro IT

Solutions or from other sources and owned a property at UAE. Denial by the

accused itself is not sufficient to consider prima facie that there is no mens rea of

the applicant for the said offence under the PMLA, 2002. Although the statement

recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 is required to be tested at the time of

trial, for the purpose of consideration of bail application the statement recorded

under Section 50 of the PMLA, 2002 can be considered against the applicant. 17. As has been discussed hereinabove, it cannot be said that there is no

involvement of the applicant in the offence in question. Considering the role of the

applicant in the ensuing money laundering case of proceeds of crime in Mahadev

Book App, it is found that, there is sufficient evidence collected by the respondent-

Enforcement Directorate to prima facie show the involvement of the applicant in the 25 offence of money laundering as defined under Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002. It is an

 organized crime having various facets of its complexion, therefore, further

 considering the provisions of Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002 this Court is satisfied

 that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the applicant is involved in the

 offence and he is likely to commit any other offence while on bail, I am not inclined

 to grant bail to the applicant. 18. Consequently, the present bail application filed by the applicant Nitin Tibrewal

 is rejected. Sd/- (Ravindra Kumar Agrawal)
 Judge

Aadil