Prathiba M. Singh, J. 1. The Plaintiffs - Swami Ramdev and Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. have filed
the present suit against the Defendants- Facebook Inc., (Defendant No. 1) CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 1 of 76 Google Inc., (Defendant No. 2) YouTube LLC, (Defendant No. 3) Google
Plus, (Defendant No. 4) Twitter International Company, (Defendant No. 5)
and Ashok Kumar (`John Does‟), (Defendant No. 6) seeking a permanent
and mandatory injunction, as also damages. For the sake of convenience, the
Defendants and their various websites, social media platforms, URLs,
weblinks etc., are collectively referred to as ―Platforms‖. 2. The allegation of the Plaintiffs is that various defamatory remarks and
information including videos, based on a book titled ‗Godman to Tycoon -
the Untold Story of Baba Ramdev' are being disseminated over the
Defendants‟ platforms. The Plaintiffs submit that the defamatory content
contained in the said book was subject matter of a judgment passed in CM
(M) 556/2018, wherein a ld. Single Judge of this Court had restrained the
publisher and author from publishing, distributing and selling the book
without deleting the offending portions. The allegations contained in the
videos, which have been uploaded on the Defendants‟ platforms are in fact
the defamatory allegations contained in the book which have already been
directed to be removed. The said judgment was challenged by the publisher
before the Supreme Court and the same is pending. It is however submitted
that there is no stay of the order/judgement. 3. The suit was listed on 21st January, 2019, on which date, notice was
directed to be served on the Defendants. On 24th January, 2019, after hearing
ld. Counsels for the parties, the following order was passed: 4. Thereafter, the platforms have placed on record the Basic Subscriber
Information (hereinafter ‗BSI') relating to the uploading of the videos.
Pleadings have also been completed by the parties. On 23rd May, 2019,
while the matter was part heard, the Court had directed the platforms to seek CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 3 of 76 instructions in respect of the following: 5. Pursuant to the orders passed by the Court, some written notes have
been placed on record by Facebook, Google LLC and Twitter in respect of
geo-blocking. The note filed by Facebook was referred to during oral
submissions. The remaining defendants have however filed the same only
along with their written submissions and no reference was made during
arguments to the same. For the sake of completeness, the same are however
being considered. 6. None of the Defendants have any objection to blocking the URLs and
disabling the same, insofar as access in India is concerned. However, all the
Defendant platforms have raised objections to removal/blocking/disabling
the impugned content on a global basis. On the other hand, the Plaintiffs
argued that blocking merely for the Indian territory alone is not sufficient as
the content would be accessible through international websites, which can be
accessed in India. Thus, according to the Plaintiffs, for the remedy to be
effective, a global blocking order ought to be passed. 7. It is on the question or whether geo-blocking is sufficient, under these CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 4 of 76 circumstances, that counsels have primarily addressed the Court. Further,
none of the Defendants have any objection for blocking the URLs for the
territory of India i.e., the India domain. Submissions on behalf of the Plaintiff 8. On behalf of the Plaintiffs, Mr. Darpan Wadhwa, ld. Senior Counsel
submits that if a defamatory article, book or any other content is printed or
published, then the publisher of the same is liable for defamation. The
Defendants are seeking protection under Section 79 of the Information
Technology Act, 2000 (hereinafter ‗the Act') on the ground that they are
intermediaries. Since they claim that their role is that of passive
intermediaries, they are bound to follow the due diligence required under
law. As per the judgment in Shreya Singhal v Union of India AIR 2015 SC
1523, the phrase "actual knowledge" in Section 79 is a Court order, thus,
once the Court passes an order, they are bound to disable the content
globally and cannot raise objections to the geographical extent of
implementation of the injunction. It is Mr. Wadhwa‟s submission that if the
Defendants claim that they do not have an obligation to comply with the
orders of the Court, then they are no longer entitled to safe harbour under Section 79 of the Act. He relies on the definitions of "computer resource",
"computer system", "computer network" and "data" in Sections 2(1)(k) , 2(1)(l) , 2(1)(j) and 2(1)(o) respectively to submit that the Act does not
provide that the blocking has to be restricted to the territory of India. Thus, a
Court of competent jurisdiction can pass effective orders directing global
blocking. He further submits that an intermediary‟s role cannot be to
adjudicate as to whether the content is defamatory or not, but to remain CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 5 of 76 passive and obey the orders of the Court. An intermediary cannot argue on
behalf of the person who has uploaded the content. It is submitted that the
harm that is being caused by continued accessibility to the content is
irreparable to the Plaintiffs, whereas there is neither any inconvenience nor
harm caused to the Defendants if they are to effect global blocking. The
platforms have the technical capability to carry out such blocking. 9. Mr. Wadhwa further submits that under the Information Technology
(Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011 (`2011 Rules') it is not for the
intermediaries to decide what is defamatory. They are to merely follow the
law, including orders of the Court. They have to appoint a grievance officer
to take care of the users‟ grievances. The Plaintiffs cannot be forced to avail
of legal remedies in every country to ensure that content is taken down. That
would be a very high order, inasmuch as it would make the remedy granted
by this Court completely ineffective. Defendants' submissions 10. On the other hand, it is submitted by Mr. Parag Tripathi, ld. Senior
Counsel appearing for Facebook - Defendant No. 1, that no effort has been
made by the Plaintiffs to implead the persons whose details have been
provided in the BSI. He relies upon the judgments in Google Inc. v
Equustek Solutions, Robert Angus and Clarma Enterprises Inc1
(hereinafter, "Equustek-I") and Google LLC v Equustek Solutions Inc., et
al. (hereinafter, "Equustek-II")2 and submits that the question as to what 1 Google Inc. v Equustek Solutions, Robert Angus and Clarma Enterprises Inc 2017 SCC 34 (Supreme
Court of Canada) 2 Google LLC v Equustek Solutions Inc., et al, United States District Court, Northern District of
California, San Jose Division, case No. 5:17-cv-04207-EJD, December 14, 2017 CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 6 of 76 constitutes defamation differs from country to country. For example, in the
U.K., the onus is upon the Defendants to show that the content is not
defamatory. However, in the U.S., the onus on the Plaintiff in a defamation
action is very high. Defamation laws differs from jurisdiction to jurisdiction,
and therefore, passing of a global disabling order would be contrary to the
principle of comity of Courts and would result in conflict of laws. 11. Mr. Tripathi further submits that the issues raised could have far
reaching impact, and Section 79 of the Act is a work in progress.
Dissemination of views on the internet is an essential ingredient of freedom
of speech and expression and the integrity of national judicial systems has to
be maintained. In fact, the injuncted book is itself available on various
platforms internationally, which itself shows that the injunction has to be
restricted to India alone. Plaintiff No.1, being a public figure, should be
open to criticism. He submits that an injunction would not be liable to be
granted inter alia on the following grounds: 12. He further submits that a global ban on content ought to be the last
resort of the Court. Such an order results in muzzling dissent. Reliance is
placed on the Equustek litigation, wherein an order to remove content was
passed by the Courts in Canada and when Google brought an action before a
US District Court to prevent enforcement of the Canadian Court‟s order, the
U.S. Court restricted the application of the Canadian court‟s order only to
Canadian territory. Such judgments could severely undermine the dignity of
Indian courts if global injunction orders are passed. He relies upon the
judgment of the Supreme Court of New York County in Ajitabh Bachchan
v India Publications 154 Misc. 2d 228 (N.Y. Misc 1992) decided on 13th
April, 1992 to support this argument. Further reliance is placed on the
judgment of the Supreme Court of New South Wales in Macquarie Bank
Ltd. & Anr. v. Berg [1999] NSWSC 526. Reliance is also placed on the
opinion of the Attorney General of the Court of Justice of the EU given in
the case of Google Inc. v. CNIL Case C-507/17. Since public interest differs CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 8 of 76 from one country to another, an Indian court‟s perception of public interest
ought not to bind other jurisdictions. He further submits that the right of
freedom of speech and expression in India ought to be at least as much as in
the U.S., and the principles of territoriality ought to be applicable in these
cases. A decision of the Sao Paulo State Court of Appeal, Brazil in Twitter
Brasil Rede de Infromacao Ltda v. Tim Cellular S/A, Interlocutory Appeal
No. 2055830-58.2016.8.26.0000 is relied upon in support of the principle of
territoriality. Reliance is also placed on an article written by Marc P. Epstein
published in the Fordham Law Review titled Comity Concerns Are No Joke: 13. Mr. Tripathi also cites the order of this Court dated 14th January, 2019
in Sasikala Pushpa v. Facebook & Ors. CS (OS) 510/2016 and order dated
25th April, 2019 passed by this Court in Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. v Facebook
Inc. & Ors. CS (OS )449/2018. Marc P. Epstein, Comity Concerns Are No Joke: Recognition of Foreign Judgments Under Dormant
Foreign Affairs Preemption, 82 Fordham Law Review 2317 (2014) 4 Alex Mills, The Law Applicable to Cross-Border Defamation on Social Media: Whose law governs free
speech in ‗Facebookistan', Journal of Media Law 7 (2015) 1-35 CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 9 of 76 14. Mr. Arvind Nigam, ld. Senior Counsel appearing for Google Inc. and
YouTube LLC takes the following preliminary objections: (vii) That the necessary party i.e. the uploader of the video having not
 been impleaded, the suit would be liable to be dismissed. He relies
 upon the judgments in ABC Laminart v AP Agencies, Salem ( 1989) 2
 SCC 163 and Ramesh Hirachand Kundanmal v Municipal
 Corporation of Greater Bombay and Others (1992) 2 SCC 524 to CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 10 of 76 argue that if a necessary party is not impleaded, the suit would be
 liable to be dismissed. 15. It is further submitted by Mr. Nigam that the order of ld. Single Judge
in CM(M) 556/2018, which is in the public domain, itself contains the
offending parts, and thus firstly, as Courts have to consider as to whether the
content is vexatious or scandalous, the judicial record itself becomes
defamatory. He relies on a judgment passed in the case of HPS Chawla v
NPS Chawla and Ors. FAO (OS) No. 55/2005 (Decided on 22nd
September, 2005) to submit that redaction was directed in the judicial order
to ensure that offensive content is not made public. Since the Plaintiff is in
public life and runs a business organization for crores worth of business, the
Plaintiff ought to be open to criticism. 16. Insofar as the Act is concerned, it is submitted that under Section 1(2) ,
it applies to only to the territory of India. Though under Section 75 it is clear
that the Act applies to any offence or contravention committed outside of
India if the same is committed through a computer, computer system or
computer network located in India, the contraventions as contemplated
under the Act are provided for in Sections 43 , 43A , 66A , 66B , 66 66E and
Section 66F. However, defamation is not covered in these provisions.
Reliance is also placed on the decision in Playboy v. Chuckleberry 939 F.
Supp. 1032 (S.D.N.Y. 1996) to argue that a U.S. court in the said case had
held that there could not be an injunction by a U.S. Court against publication
of a magazine titled „Playmen‟ in Italy. It is further argued that the grant of a
global injunction at the interim stage is like decreeing the suit. Since the
Plaintiff‟s reputation is restricted and localised in India, the Plaintiff is
adequately protected by geo-blocking. If the uploader himself removes the CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 11 of 76 offending material, then the removal takes effect globally. 17. Mr. Sanjeev Sindhwani, ld. Senior Counsel appearing for Twitter
submits that the grant of a global injunction can have a regressive effect
even on India. He relies upon Section 13 CPC to submit that India also
prescribes various conditions to recognize judgments of foreign Courts. He
further relies upon the Sections 3 and 4 of the IPC to argue that if there are
extra territorial offences, an order of an Indian Court would not be
enforceable abroad. The principles of comity of courts and comity of nations
requires Courts to respect the territoriality of their jurisdiction. The
contraventions under the Act cannot be dealt with by a Civil Court as they
are criminal offences. The High Court of Justice in Northern Ireland, in
George Galloway v. William Frederick Frazer & Ors. [2016] NIQB 7 has
held that no global injunction can be granted. The Defendants have already
complied with the orders on a pan-India basis and geo-blocking has been
done. The Plaintiffs have not complained of any violations of the order that
has already been passed, and under the provisions of Order VI Rule 4 CPC ,
pleadings are required to be specific and in the absence thereof, no
injunction can be granted. The mere apprehension of use of VPN and proxy
servers to access global websites cannot be sufficient to presume that the
data is likely to be transmitted and accessed in India. In Suresh Jindal v.
Rizosli Corriere Della Sera Prodzioni T.V. S.p.a. and Ors [1991] Suppl. (2)
SCC 3, the Supreme Court, being conscious of the limitations, granted an
injunction against dissemination only in India. In view of the fact that the
global standard to protect free speech could be very low in various
jurisdictions, Indian Courts, which have a higher standard for free speech,
should not impose the said standards internationally. In Shreya Singhal CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 12 of 76 (supra), it has been held by the Court that the injunction, if any, has to be in
the narrowest terms. Rejoinder submissions by the Plaintiffs 18. In rejoinder submissions, Mr. Darpan Wadhwa, ld. Senior Counsel
submits that the plaint is not lacking in material particulars. In various
paragraphs, the manner in which the content uploaded in the video is
defamatory has been set out. Specific reliance is placed on pages 31, 33, 38,
39 and 53 of the plaint. Reliance is also placed on the judgment of the ld.
Single Judge, specifically, pages 91, 118, 119, 121, 178, 179 and 201 where
the very same content, as contained in the video, has been dealt with as part
of the book. It is further submitted by Mr. Wadhwa that the right of
reputation is a Right under Article 21 of the Constitution. Thus, the Court
has to balance the Plaintiff‟s rights enshrined in Article 21 as against the
rights under Article 19 , which are being claimed by the platforms 19. Insofar as the argument of mis-joinder and non-joinder is concerned,
he submits that the BSI does not give any details except the IP addresses.
Only in some cases, mobile numbers and e-mail addresses have been given.
It is not clear if those individuals are even identifiable. 20. He relies upon the pleadings i.e. written statements filed by the
platforms wherein the platforms are attempting to justify as to why global
blocking orders ought not to be granted. He submits that the apprehensions
of conflict of laws and violation of the principle of comity of courts are all
theoretical. He relies upon the judgment in Equustek-I (supra), especially
paragraphs 20 and 27, to argue that Google Inc. is subject to personal
jurisdiction before this Court and hence any injunction order granted by the CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 13 of 76 Court has to have full effect. Plaintiffs, citizens and individuals cannot be
forced to go courts in each country to protect their reputation. 21. He submits that Section 79 of the Act is the exception to the rule that
every publisher is liable. The platforms are publishers and since they intend
to seek protection and safe harbour under Section 79 upon being served with
a Court order, they have a duty to implement the same. Rule 3(2) of the
Rules has to be part of the user agreement, and if any content is defamatory,
the same has to be taken down. Intermediaries cannot be judges in their own
cause and cannot attempt to police content on their own. Since they do not
claim any responsibility at the stage of uploading, the removal of content has
to be without hesitation. If they question the orders of the Court, they no
longer remain neutral intermediaries and are liable as publishers. He
distinguishes the judgment in Ajitabh Bachan (supra). He relies upon the
judgment in Niemela (supra) to argue that global blocking was sought. He
submits that on a VPN network, the video on global platforms is easily
available in India. While the platforms are willing to protecting trademarks
and copyrights on a global basis, they are refusing to protect a person‟s
reputation. The platforms have not included defamation as part of their
policies and hence where defamatory content is concerned, Court orders are
required. While the platforms, based on their own policies, do remove
content on a global basis, they refuse to do so on the basis of Court orders.
The reason for such resistance by the platforms is because the advertising
revenue of the platforms depends on the number of hits they get on the
shared content. Controversial content gets more hits, and thus if the said
content remains, the platforms earn greater revenues. He submits that the
publication in the Journal of Media Law in fact states that intermediaries CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 14 of 76 ought to stay out of judging and leave the same to the Courts. Analysis and findings 22. The following issues, which have been raised by the parties, are being
decided at the prima facie stage: should be the form of injunction order that is to be passed? 1) Mis-joinder / non-joinder of parties 23. This objection has two dimensions. The first is the non-impleadment
of the publisher and the author of the book. The second is the non-
impleadment of the persons disclosed in the BSI. 24. Insofar as the first objection is concerned, the book is not directly in
issue in the present case, though the offending videos is claimed to be
derived from the book. Insofar as the publisher / author of the book is
concerned, the Plaintiffs have already availed of their legal remedies against
them and a detailed judgment has already been passed by the ld. Single
Judge in CM(M) 556/2018. The subject matter of the present suit is the
offending video and other related content, which is derived from the book
and has been uploaded on various links on the Defendants‟ platforms. The
details of the said links have been annexed to the plaint and run into four
pages. 25. Insofar as non-impleadment of the individuals who have uploaded
these videos and other allegedly offending content is concerned, a perusal of
the BSI which has been filed by the platforms shows that the information is CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 15 of 76 in the form of account IDs along with IP addresses. Each of the platforms
has disclosed the BSI-for example, the Twitter BSI runs into 145 pages, and
shows details of from which IP address the user has logged in, and at what
time date. There are no other details of the said user. In respect of some
users, e-mail addresses have been given. However, no further details are
available. The Plaintiffs having received these BSI details, would have to
make detailed enquiries and investigations in order to identify the complete
contact details of the individuals whose IP addresses or e-mail addresses, or
in some cases, mobile numbers have been disclosed. The Plaintiffs may,
after proper enquiries take proper steps to implead such uploaders as they
deem appropriate, based on the BSI disclosed by the platforms. The suit is at
the initial stage and it cannot be said that without impleadment of these
subscribers, the suit is not maintainable. At the time when the suit was filed,
the Plaintiffs had no way of ascertaining the details of these persons and
even now, the subscriber information which the Court has glanced through,
appears to be quite cryptic. This is owing to the nature of internet itself
wherein users can upload information without disclosing their complete
identities. In X Vs. Twitter Inc.,5 the Supreme Court of New South Wales
has held that such circumstances would in fact justify granting of a Norwich
Pharmacal order directing discovery of further details. However, the same
could be done at a later stage. Thus, the objection that due to non-joinder of
these parties, the suit is not liable to be entertained is not tenable at this
stage. At the time of framing of issues, the question of mis-joinder or non-
joinder can be considered by the Court. However, since these platforms are 5 [2017] NSWSC 1300 CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 16 of 76 being used for directly disseminating the impugned content, they are
undoubtedly necessary and proper parties in the present suit. In Ramesh
Hirachand Kundanmal v Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay and
Others (supra), the Supreme Court has laid down the law as to who
necessary and proper parties are. This is a settled legal position, and does not
require any repetition or reiteration, At the prima facie stage, this Court is of
the opinion that the suit is not liable to be dismissed for non-joinder of the
alleged uploaders of the information or the publishers / author of the book. 2) Whether the content is defamatory? 26. The status of the Plaintiffs is well known and has already been subject
matter of the earlier litigation. A perusal of paragraph 18 of the plaint shows
that the Plaintiff has transcribed one of the videos, which it finds to be
offending, defamatory and malicious. The said video clearly claims to be a
summary of the book - ‗Godman to Tycoon - The Untold Story of Baba
Ramdev'. The publishers of the book are mentioned. The video is also
conscious of the fact that the book has been banned w.e.f. 11th August, 2017,
which appears to be the date of one of the orders passed in the litigation
between Plaintiff No.1 and the publisher. Interestingly, the video claims that
the views in the video are of those of the author of the book and that the
video channel itself has no relationship with the views expressed therein.
Thereafter, the video proceeds to give a summary of the book. The relevant
portion of the transcription is given below: 27. The video does give a history of Plaintiff No. 1, as paraphrased from
the book. There are various insinuations and allegations made against the
Plaintiffs including the business of Plaintiff No.2. Various unverified
allegations are also contained in the video. Allegations have also been made
against the Plaintiffs in respect of monetary irregularities. There are
insinuations that the Plaintiff is connected with the three deaths. The video
concludes by saying: 28. The contents of the video are not being repeated in this judgment, in
order to ensure that the same is not further published, as rightly contented by
Mr. Nigam. There is no doubt that reading of the transcript, or a viewing of
the video clearly attempts to give an impression to the viewers that the
Plaintiffs have been involved in various murders, financial irregularities,
misuse of animal parts, etc. However, all this information, as per the video,
has been derived not independently, but as a summary of the book itself.
Thus, the judgment in CM (M) 556/2018 dated 29th September, 2018 clearly
becomes relevant. A perusal of the said judgment shows that the ld. Single
Judge, after considering the law of defamation, including the balance
between the Article 21 and Article 19(1)(a) has concluded that the content of
the book is not justified. The implicit allegations have been held to be prima
facie untrue. The ld. Single Judge has arrived at the following findings: ... 140. As regards ―Chapter 9 Mystery 1: The Ally's
 Murder‖ which relates to the death of Swami
 Yoganand, the key associate of the petitioner, it is
 contended by the petitioner that through the said
 chapter which reads to the effect ... it has been insinuated against the petitioner that he
 had something to do with the murder of Swami
 Yogananda on account of a falling out between the
 petitioner and Swami Yogananda on account of a
 falling out between the petitioner and Swami
 Yogananda and the petitioner contends that it is been
 further represented as if the Investigating Officer had
 filed an extraordinary report by stating that the
 perpetrators were unknown and that the respondents
 had not clarified that such reports are called ―Untrace
 Reports‖ and are common place and that the same had
 been done with the sole intention of creating an aura
 of suspicion so as to defame the petitioner and that in
 the light of the ―Untraced Report‖ which has also
 been admitted by the author, it is contended on behalf
 of the petitioner that it is clear that there was no way
 for the respondents to prove that the allegations were
 true and accordingly no defence would succeed in
 relation to the same. Prima facie the factum that there
 was an ―Untrace Report‖ in existence, there exists no CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 20 of 76 justification for creation of an aura of suspicion
 against the petitioner in relation to the murder of the
 Swami Yogananda rightly contended on behalf of the
 petitioner. 141...In this context, thus the contention of the
 petitioner seeking to contend that there were
 deliberate insinuations against him made by the author
 that he was not willing to get the post mortem
 conducted on the body of Rajeev Dixit to cover up a
 foul play, prima facie cannot be accepted.‖ 29. It was held that the fact that Plaintiff No. 1 is a public figure could not
ipso facto constitute a license to defame him. Insofar as the interlocutory
injunction is concerned, the Court in paragraphs 180 concludes as under: (b) At Page 105 to 114, Chapter 16 Mystery 2 : (d) At Page 202 Chapter 25 : Conclusion
 "Finally, a trail of shirked responsibility. For
 every negative event surrounding him, he has
 consistently yelled foul, always choosing to lay the
 blame at someone else's door." ... ... ... Insofar as the remaining content is concerned, the Court directed as under: 30. A perusal of the transcript of the video shows that the same is nothing
but a summary of the book. It contains a large portion of the deleted content
in a paraphrased / summarized manner. Thus, the videos are falling foul of
the judgment passed by this Court. 31. Ld. Counsels for the parties have confirmed that the publisher of the
book had filed SLPs before the Supreme Court being SLP Nos. 30307-
30308/2018 which are stated to be pending in the Supreme Court. However,
there is no stay on the order of injunction that has been passed. 32. Thus, insofar as the question as to whether the content is defamatory
or not, the same need not be gone into by this Court as the offending video
in the present suit is nothing but a summary of the book, which has already CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 30 of 76 been litigated upon. There has been no serious contest as to the fact that all
the offending videos whose links have been filed at pages 19 to 24 of the
documents file are merely summarizing/ paraphrasing extracts of the book
itself. Since this has not been factually contested by any of the parties, the
Court has not viewed each of the videos. The submissions of the ld.
Counsels have been focused on the video whose transcript has been
provided in the plaint in paragraph 18(a). The Plaintiff‟s averments in para
18(a) have been rebutted only on the ground that the platforms are
intermediaries. There has been no denial of the content of the video as
mentioned in paragraph 18(a) of the plaint. Paragraph 18(a) of the Plaint
reads as under: 33. Thus, the question as to whether there has been defamation or not has CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 31 of 76 been decided in the earlier round of litigation between the parties and the
publisher. In fact, Google and YouTube have taken the stand that the
impugned videos / URLs / web links have been duly disabled from the
country domain. They have denied that the vilification campaign is at the
behest of the Defendants and further state that they are strictly neutral and
passive intermediaries. Insofar as Facebook is concerned, it has taken a
stand that it is only an intermediary, which provides platform to third parties
to upload content and it cannot be asked to proactively monitor its platform.
Thus, the content of the video to the extent it contains paraphrasing of
content which was directed to be removed from the book is held to be
defamatory. A perusal of the video transcript and the offending portion of
the book show the clear similarity and prima facie, establish that the video is
derived from the book and hence is defamatory. In any event, this issue is
moot inasmuch as the video begins by stating that it is based on the book.
Thus, the defamatory nature of the video cannot be disputed. 3) Whether the Defendants are intermediaries and if so, what should
be the form of injunction order that is to be passed? 34. In order to answer this question, the following aspects need to be
considered: Written Statement of Facebook 35. In its written statement, Facebook pleads that it is an intermediary
under Section 79 and has no role in initiating transmission, selecting the
receiver of any transmission and or selecting or modifying the information
contained in the transmissions. It is entitled to protection under Section 79 .
Reliance is placed on Shreya Singhal (supra). Facebook pleads that it does
not have an obligation to proactively monitor the Facebook service in order
to block the offending posts. It merely provides a platform to upload the
content. It states that the request for global blocking would result in a
"conflict of laws situation", as a global injunction may not be in consonance
with the law in other jurisdictions and may jeopardize Facebook‟s status as
an intermediary in other jurisdictions. This would be violative of
international comity. It states that it is neither the author nor the publisher of
third-party content and enjoys immunity under Section 79 . In terms of Shreya Singhal (supra), it is only required to act upon a valid Court order or
request from an authorized Government agency. It has already taken action
in respect of the URLs pointed out by the Plaintiffs. It further avers that it is
in compliance with the 2011 Rules and it shall not host, display, modify or
publish any information which is covered under Rules 2 and 3 of the 2011
Rules. Written statement of Google LLC and YouTube LLC 36. Google and YouTube have both filed a common written statement. It
is averred that Google Plus i.e. Defendant No.4 is not a separate juristic
entity, and is only a product which is owned and operated by Google LLC.
The said Defendant thus deserves to be deleted. The two platforms claim CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 33 of 76 that they are not publishers of the content, which has been created by a third
party and uploaded on www.youtube.com. The said content is neither
created nor controlled nor owned by the platforms and is accessed on the
Internet on an ‗as is' basis. Google and YouTube claim that they have
complied with the order dated 24th January, 2019 and disabled the web links
/ URLs to the extent they related to India. The said paragraph is relevant and
is extracted herein below: 37. Insofar as the prayer as to blocking and restriction of access to all
other media in control of the Defendants is concerned, their stand is that
such blocking would be contrary to the "established principles of defamation
law" and Section 79 of the IT Act. 38. As per the basic terms and conditions of YouTube, a user has to
contractually agree to the following three documents: 39. These are binding on every user, who gives various representations
and warranties. Only the uploader has specific knowledge of the content of
the video, and the platforms are mere intermediaries. Thus, no liability can
be fastened upon them. YouTube claims that it provides for a "robust, easy- to-use mechanism" on its website and any user can report a video for
violation of his or her rights. In addition, a complaint form can also be filled,
which is publicly accessible. Upon receipt of any complaint, the same is
reviewed as per YouTube‟s policy and local law of every country, and the
same is acted upon. It is submitted that since defamation is a subjective
issue, and laws vary from each country, such issues are subject to the local
laws of the country where alleged defamation is complained of. It avers that
the Courts are the adjudicating authorities to decide whether the alleged
content is defamatory. Since YouTube is a dynamic platform, where videos
are uploaded every hour, no specific knowledge of the contents of videos
can be attributed to YouTube. 40. As per Shreya Singhal (supra), a Court order has to be passed
identifying the content as being defamatory, as a claim of defamation is
especially hard to judge and only Courts of competent jurisdiction can take a
decision on the same. 41. It is pleaded that the plaint does not disclose a cause of action as the
ingredients required for a defamation action are not satisfied. It is further
pleaded that the injunction sought is vague and broad, as an order is being
sought in respect of "other active URLs/links which contain or purport to
contain, the infringing or disparaging Video...". Such an order would be
contrary to Shreya Singhal (supra). Further, injunction is being sought
"across the globe." It is pleaded that an order in such terms is beyond the
territorial jurisdiction of this Court. Since every Court has its own standards
for freedom of speech and expression, the order of the Court cannot be
enforced beyond Indian borders. Such an order would expose the
Defendants to liability for censoring content in various countries, which CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 35 of 76 would be contrary to free speech standards and may also expose the
platforms to legal proceedings. It is averred that such order would lead to
libel tourism and forum shopping. 42. It is submitted that active monitoring also cannot be directed. The
injunction ought to be restricted to India, and only to the identified URLs. It
is further stated that the platforms have complied with the order dated 24th
January, 2019. The relevant extract from the written statement reads as
under: It is respectfully submitted that the Answering
 Defendants are intermediaries that operate in several
 countries under the local domain to such countries, in
 compliance with the respective legal framework of
 those countries and targeting the local citizenry. Any
 order for global removal would expose the Answering
 Defendants to liability for censoring content in a
 particular country, in contravention to the free speech
 standards of those jurisdictions." Written statement of Twitter 43. Twitter claims that it is a social media platform. Further, the
description of the Twitter service is pleaded as under: 44. Twitter states that it complies with the 2011 Rules. It relies on the
judgment in Shreya Singhal (supra) to argue that the only manner in which
knowledge can be attributed to an intermediary is through a Court order.
Twitter has no partisan role and is bound by the Act and the Rules framed
thereunder. No order in the form of a prospective injunction can be passed
against unidentified future content as Twitter does not have any policy to
monitor, detect and remove content. Reliance is placed on the judgments in Myspace Inc. v Super Cassettes Industries Ltd. 2017 ( 69) PTC 1 (Del) and
Kent RO Systems Ltd. & Ors. v Amit Kotak and Ors. 2017 (69) PTC 55I(Del. 45. With respect to the prayer for global injunction, it is pleaded that such
an order would run contrary to the principles of state sovereignty in
international law and the principle of international comity, since the laws CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 38 of 76 relating to free speech and defamation are not co-extensive and differ from
country to country. Any order for a global takedown or global blocking
would interfere with the rights of the people over whom the Court has no
jurisdiction. The local laws of every country cannot apply to the internet
globally. National courts thus have to restrict their orders only to geo-
blocking of the content i.e. blocking of content only in the country where the
content is in breach of local law, since what is illegal in one country need
not be illegal in another. Analysis 46. On the basis of all the above pleadings of the platforms, it is clear that
the platforms do not deny that they are disseminating the content. It is also
not denied that they are bound by the provisions of Section 79 of the Act.
Further, the Court had specifically directed the Defendants to throw some
light on how geo-blocking is done and to keep a technical person present in
Court to seek clarification on geo-blocking. None of the platforms have
given a detailed explanation as to how geo-blocking is done. In fact,
Defendants 2 and 3 sought exemption from having a technical person
present in Court. Thus, the Court has no option but to adjudicate the issue of
geo-blocking on the basis of the material available on record and the
submissions made before the Court. 47. One of the platforms i.e. Facebook, has placed on record its response
to the queries raised by the Court on 5th April, 2019. According to Facebook,
it follows the Facebook Community Standards, which address various issues
like bullying, harassment, hate speech, violence, etc. Facebook‟s categorical
position is that if any content is violative of Facebook Community CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 39 of 76 Standards, such content is not made available on its platform at all. The
relevant part of the note by Facebook is extracted herein below: 48. Insofar as Google, YouTube and Twitter are concerned, from the
pleadings which have been filed on record, it is clear that the content is
uploaded on their platforms by users. What is however not clear is as to how
the content uploaded from a particular geographical location is immediately
transmitted across the world without any geographical limitation. It is a
matter of public knowledge, and is also clear from the various judgments
which have been cited before the Court, that all these platforms maintain a
global network of computer systems, which transmits the content,
information and data on an almost instantaneous basis. Thus, any content
uploaded from India, would be available, within a matter of seconds, across
the globe and would be accessible to users or viewers across the globe. The
same would only be disabled or blocked upon a Court order being received, CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 40 of 76 subject to local laws of that particular jurisdiction. 49. Insofar as the global dissemination of information, content or data is
concerned, there is no doubt that platforms disseminate the same by either
copying the data on multiple servers, or providing access to the source of the
data / information / content through a network of servers. This entire process
could be even without human intervention. What is geo-blocking? 50. As per all the platforms, geo-blocking is a method by which the
platforms ensure that any content is blocked from a particular jurisdiction.
Facebook has given a brief description how geo-blocking is done. As per the
note filed by Facebook, geo-blocking is done in the following manner: 51. Defendants No. 2 and 3- Google and YouTube, state that their Terms
of Service and Community Guidelines, which are binding on users are
aimed at "striking a proper balance between enabling free expressions and
maintaining a responsible and safe community of users." It is stated that the
Policies are developed on the basis of internationally accepted norms that
are not known to deviate across various jurisdictions. Content that is
reported to Google and found to violate the Policies is removed from the
platform as it goes against the "principle on which the Platform is founded."
Such removal is stated to be global in nature. 52. Defendant No. 5-Twitter‟s note on geo-blocking states that when an
order is passed by a court of a particular country to block any content,
Twitter disables the access to the reported content for all such Twitter users
whose user settings indicate the name of the country of which they are
residents as the country in which the content is to be blocked. It further
states that Twitter automatically determines the location of a particular user
at the time of creation of his/her Twitter account on the basis of the IP
address through which the user logs in and reflects the same in the accounts
settings of the user‟s profile. By way of example, it is stated that if an Indian
court was to direct blocking of a particular tweet, Twitter would disable the
access to such tweet for all account holders whose account settings indicate
that their place of residence is India. However, if content is found to violate
Twitter‟s terms of service, it is taken down globally. 53. From the above discussion, in non-technical terms, `geo-blocking'
appears to be a short form for `geographical blocking' i.e. blocking of
content from country to country or from one region to another. If the content
is geo-blocked, the same would still be available on the other global CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 42 of 76 platforms but not on the platforms of the country where geo-blocking has
been carried out. Thus, geo-blocking is partial blocking of content,
information and data, restricted by territory. The question as to whether geo-
blocking is justified and sufficient under Section 79 of the Act, is the
question that arises for determination. International Legal position on Geo-blocking/Global Injunctions 54. A review of the case law on the question of geo-blocking and global
injunctions in the context of internet platforms shows that the same has been
a raging debate across jurisdictions. While some courts have taken the view
that granting of global injunctions is not appropriate, other courts and
forums including in recent decisions, have taken a view that if the
circumstances warrant, global injunctions ought to be granted. Issues
relating to comity of courts, conflict of laws etc. have been raised even in
these proceedings. 55. One of the earliest cases cited by the Defendants is Playboy
Enterprises, Inc v. Chuckleberry Publishing Inc. (supra) which involved
an internet site publishing a "male sophisticate" magazine under the name
"Playmen" operating from Italy. The magazine had commenced publication
in 1967 in the print form, and in 1996 it had expanded to an internet site.
The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, in 1981 had
directed Tattilo Editrice S.P.A, the Italian publisher to either shut down its
internet site completely and or refrain from accepting any new subscriptions
from customers residing in the U.S. It further directed payment of all the
gross profits earned from customers residing in the U.S. to the Plaintiff. The
injunction, which was granted on 26th June 1981 was pressed by the CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 43 of 76 Plaintiff, and a contempt petition was filed against Tattilo. The Court held
that Tattilo had violated the injunction order and accordingly sanctioned the
company for civil contempt, directing the website to either shut its internet
site completely, or prohibit US users form accessing the site. In the
contempt proceedings, the Tattilo had challenged the jurisdiction of the US
Court, however the court held that it had the jurisdiction to enforce the 1981
injunction. The relevant observation in respect of extraterritorial jurisdiction
is as under: 56. In the case of Macquarie Bank Limited & Anr. vs. Berg (supra), the
New South Wales Supreme Court was seized with an action for defamation.
The Defendant was an ex-employee of the Plaintiff bank. He started
publishing defamatory content on websites from outside New Zealand, it
was reasonably understood that the Defendant was doing so from the United
States. Thus, there was a serious issue of jurisdiction. In this case, the court
held that the injunction sought for disabling access ought not to be granted.
Prima facie the Court found that the publication could not be called
scurrilous. In respect of the question as to whether the Defendant could be
restrained from publishing anywhere in the world via the internet, the Court
observed as under: 57. The Supreme Court of New South Wales had the opportunity to
consider this very issue of global injunctions in X v. Twitter Inc. (supra)
This case involved confidential information being leaked on the Twitter
platform and in the said context, the Court observed that Twitter ought to
have a mechanism for filtering information on the Twitter service, especially
keeping in mind issues of national security and classified intelligence etc.
The Court holds that a direction to apply some degree of filtering would not
be unreasonable. The Court further observed that an order could also be
directed towards future tweets, and that there cannot be a right to post CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 46 of 76 offending tweets. The observations of the Court is as under: 58. A classic case of jurisdictional conflict on the internet has arisen in
the litigation between Equustek Solutions Inc. and Google. Equustek had
filed a suit in Canada against a company called Datalink seeking an
injunction against violation of intellectual property. Datalink had launched
various products on the internet, which according to Equustek, mislead the
customers into believing that they were Equustek‟s products. An injunction
was granted against Datalink, with which Datalink did not comply. To make
matters worse Datalink removed itself from the jurisdiction of Canadian
courts. Despite arrest warrants been issued, the order could not be effected.
Equustek then sought an order against Google to remove Datalink websites
from its search results which was refused by Google. Once Datalink was
injuncted by the Canadian Court Google blocked 300 Datalink websites
from appearing in the Canadian specific domain i.e. www.google.ca. However, the references to Datalink's websites, which appeared in the
search results outside Canada retained. At that stage, Equustek sought an
injunction from the Canadian court to direct Google to remove Datalink
websites from all its global search results. The Trial Court granted the order
for delisting the search results, which was complied with by Google. The
Court of Appeals of British Columbia affirmed the order. 59. Google, thereafter approached the United States District Court in the
Northern District of California seeking a declaratory judgement that the
Canadian court order was not enforceable in the United States. The United
States District Court in Equustek -II (supra) granted Google preliminary
relief of injunction on the ground that would be deprived of the benefits of
U.S. Federal law that protects free speech on the internet. The observations
of the District Court are as under: 60. It is interesting to note that this judgment has been relied upon by the
Defendants to argue that any order passed, which may have a global impact
could result in a conflict of law situation and may also hurt free speech. It is
however relevant to note that the judgment in Equustek-I related to an issue
of piracy of intellectual property, and was not a free speech case. Thereafter,
the Supreme Court of British Columbia, in its judgment Equustek Solutions
Inc. v Jack 2018 BC SC 610 (hereinafter, Equustek-III) dated 16th April,
2018 noted that Google had taken a position before the U.S. District Court,
which was contrary to its position before the Canadian court. Google argued
that its right of free speech includes its right to decide as to which website it
can link to, which is different and distinct from the content which appears on CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 49 of 76 the said links. The Court in Equustek -III thereafter observed as under: 61. In Niemela v. Malamas (supra), an interlocutory injunction was
sought by a Canadian lawyer, against whom various defamatory statements
had appeared on the internet. A Canadian court had directed the removal of
the URLs from the Canadian domain. The Plaintiff had then sought a global
mandatory removal order. The question that was considered was as to
whether the removal from the Canada domain name was inadequate to
protect the interests of the Plaintiff. The Supreme Court of British Columbia
observed that voluntary removal by Google from the Canada domain was
sufficient. The observation of the Court is as under: 62. In Vladimir Ivanovich Telnikoff v. Vladimir Matusevitch the Court
of Appeals of Maryland observed that the laws of defamation vary from
country to country. Foreign judgments would be recognised, unless contrary
to the public policy of the enforcing State. This judgment, however, did not
dealt with publication on the internet. 63. In Ajitabh Bachchan V. Indian Publications (supra) again the
difference in defamation and libel laws between the U.K and the U.S. was
emphasized by the Supreme Court of New York County. 64. The ld. counsel for Facebook relied upon the ld. Attorney General‟s
opinion in Google v. CNIL. The case before the CJEU was pending when
judgment was reserved in the present case. However, recently on 24th
September, 2019 the Grand Chamber of the CJEU has pronounced its
judgment. Google had appealed to the CJEU against the penalty imposed on
it by the French data protection authority- CNIL, which was imposed as
Google had refused to remove the offending search results (termed as "de-
referencing") from all its domain name extensions. The Court considered
various provisions of the E.U. Directive 95/46 and Regulation 2016/679.
The Court noted that the CNIL had regarded as insufficient Google‟s geo-
blocking proposal in the context of privacy of citizens. Google had taken
the stand that all links cannot be removed without geographical limitation,
as such removal would result in "disregard of the principles of courtesy and
non-interference recognised by public international law" and would
disproportionately infringe the "freedoms of expression, information,
communication and the press guaranteed, in particular, by Article 11 of the
Charter.‖ 65. Thus, the Court was considering the following three questions: 66. The Court, in the context of the above question observes as under: ... 71. It is for the referring court to ascertain whether,
 also having regard to the recent changes made to its
 search engine as set out in paragraph 42 above, the
 measures adopted or proposed by Google meet those
 requirements. 72. Lastly, it should be emphasised that, while, as
 noted in paragraph 64 above, EU law does not
 currently require that the de-referencing granted
 concern all versions of the search engine in question, it
 also does not prohibit such a practice. Accordingly, a
 supervisory or judicial authority of a Member State
 remains competent to weigh up, in the light of national
 standards of protection of fundamental rights (see, to
 that effect, judgments of 26 February 2013, Åkerberg
 Fransson, C‑617/10, EU:C:2013:105, paragraph 29,
 and of 26 February 2013, Melloni, C‑399/11,
 EU:C:2013:107, paragraph 60), a data subject's right
 to privacy and the protection of personal data
 concerning him or her, on the one hand, and the right
 to freedom of information, on the other, and, after
 weighing those rights against each other, to order,
 where appropriate, the operator of that search engine
 to carry out a de-referencing concerning all versions of
 that search engine.‖ 67. Finally, the Court holds that the search engine is not required to
"carry out that de-referencing on all versions of its search engine, but on the
versions of that search engine corresponding to all the Member States,
using, where necessary, measures which, while meeting the legal
requirements, effectively prevent or, at the very least, seriously discourage
an internet user conducting a search from one of the Member States on the
basis of a data subject's name from gaining access, via the list of results
displayed following that search, to the links which are the subject of that
request." 68. Thus, the opinion of the Court was that the national Court of each
member state in the EU would have to adjudicate the right to privacy and the
personal data of the citizens on the one hand and the right to freedom of
information on the other and while weighing the two, the Court would have
to direct as to whether the search engine has to de-reference only specific
country domain name extensions or all versions of the search engine. In
effect, therefore, the language of the provisions of the EU directive and
regulations was interpreted by the Court to hold that the language as it exists
does not require a global de-referencing. 69. More recently i.e. on 3rd October, 2019 the CJEU Eva Glawischnig-
Piesczek v. Facebook Ireland Limited6, has ruled on the interpretation of
EU Directive 2000/31 in the context of the Plaintiff‟s plea that statements
harmful to her reputation appeared on the social network of Facebook,
which she sought removal of. In the said context, the Court holds that
national courts of a member state can order blocking of access to the
information on a worldwide basis. The court‟s conclusions are as under: 70. The position in India, insofar geo-blocking and global injunctions is
concerned, is not fully settled. In You Tube v. Geeta Shroff FAO 93/2018
(Decided on 17th May, 2018), a ld. Single Judge of this Court was dealing
with an offensive post, which was only removed from the India domain and
not from global platforms. In this context, the Court considered the
Equustek litigation as also the Securing the Protection of our Enduring and
Established Constitutional Heritage (SPEECH) Act, 2010 of the USA. The
Court thereafter, observed as under: 71. Recently, in Subodh Gupta v. Herdscene & Ors. CS(OS) 483/2019
Order dated 18th September, 2019, in the context of defamatory content, a
ld. Single Bench has directed removal of all the defamatory posts pertaining
to the Plaintiff, without any geographical limitation. Interpretation of the provisions of the Act 72. The main provision relied upon by all the platforms is Section 79 of
the Act. The said provision has been interpreted in various judgments
including the Supreme Court judgment in Shreya Singhal (supra). In
Shreya Singhal, the Supreme Court was concerned with the question as to CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 60 of 76 whether Section 79 and other provisions i.e. Sections 66A and 69A were
Constitutionally valid. The Court, while balancing the rights of citizens
under Article 19(1)(a) with the provisions of the IT Act deals with the
chilling effect which could result if the provisions of the same are
interpreted broadly. On the question of chilling effect, the court observes as
under: 73. The Court further holds that if a statute is invalid, the fact that it could
be administered in a reasonable manner cannot save it. After applying the
doctrine of severability, the Court holds that Section 66A is severable and
the provision as a whole was held to be unconstitutional. However, insofar
as Section 79 is concerned, the Court examined the provisions of Section 79 along with the due diligence provisions required under the Rules. After
considering the said two provisions, the Court held as under: 74. The question that has arisen in the present case is what would
constitute removal or disabling access within the meaning of Section 79 .
Can removal or disabling access be geographically limited or should it be
global? 75. All the platforms have unanimously agreed in their pleadings that they
have already blocked or disabled access to the URLs specified by the
Plaintiffs insofar as the India domain is concerned. The question is whether
the platforms can be directed to block the content on a global basis, or would
the jurisdiction of Indian courts only extend to directing blocking in the
country domain. In order to appreciate this argument raised by the platforms,
the provisions of the Act, read with the Rules are relevant. The same are
extracted below: Section 2(l) "computer system" means a device or collection of
 devices, including input and output support devices
 and excluding calculators which are not
 programmable and capable of being used in
 conjunction with external files, which contain
 computer programmes, electronic instructions, input
 data and output data, that performs logic, arithmetic,
 data storage and retrieval, communication control and
 other functions; Section 2(w) "intermediary" with respect to any particular
 electronic message means any person who on behalf of
 another person receives, stores or transmits that
 message or provides any service with respect to that
 message;" Explanation-For the purposes of this section, the
 expression ―third party information‖ means any
 information dealt with by an intermediary in its
 capacity as an intermediary.‖ CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 65 of 76 Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011 Rule 3

 ―3. The intermediary shall observe following due
 diligence while discharging his duties, namely : -- ... (2) Such rules and regulations, terms and conditions or
 user agreement shall inform the users of computer
 resource not to host, display, upload, modify, publish,
 transmit, update or share any information that - ... (b) is grossly harmful, harassing, blasphemous
 defamatory, obscene, pornographic, paedophilic,
 libellous, invasive of another's privacy, hateful, or
 racially, ethnically objectionable, disparaging, relating
 or encouraging money laundering or gambling, or
 otherwise unlawful in any manner whatever;‖ 76. All the platforms i.e. Facebook, Google, YouTube and Twitter argue
in one voice that they are intermediaries under Section 79 . A perusal of their
written statements shows that they claim that they do not either initiate,
select or modify the transmission, and that they observe due diligence. Thus,
sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 79 are relied upon by the platforms.
However, in order to avail of the exemptions provided under Section 79(1) and (2), the intermediaries have a duty to "expeditiously remove or disable
access". The intermediaries have to remove or disable access to "that
material". The said material would be the information or data "residing in or
connected to a computer resource". What would be the material to which
access is to be disabled or expeditiously removed? The answer to this is in
the 2011 Rules. Under Rule 3(2), the information or data which constitutes
"that material" would be `the material or information that is grossly CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 66 of 76 harmful, harassing, blasphemous, defamatory.... or otherwise unlawful in
any manner whatsoever'. Thus, the access would have to be disabled to any
material or information which falls in any of these categories from (a) to (i).
If a material or information falls in this category, upon receiving a Court
order, the intermediary has to remove expeditiously or disable access to the
same. 77. From which locations is the removal or disabling to take place? The
answer to this is again in Section 79(3)(b) . The removal or disablement to
the offending material has to take place "on that resource". What constitutes
"that resource"? It is a computer resource in which the "information, data or
communication link" is "residing in" or is "connected to". 78. Computer resource is defined as a computer, a computer system or a
computer network. It is not merely a single computer. It encompasses within
itself a computer network, which would include a maze or a network of
computers. Such a computer network could be a global computer network.
Thus, a proper reading of Section 79(3)(b) would mean that if any
information, data is residing in or connected to a computer network, i.e. a
computer resource, the intermediary has to remove or disable access to the
said information or data on that resource. The use of the words "that
material" and "that resource" shows that the same is intricately connected to
the initial part of the provision which deals with "any information, data or
communication link" and "a computer resource." Thus, if any information
or data has been uploaded or is residing in a computer resource i.e. a
computer network, the information or data which has to be removed or
disabled from that very computer resource or network. The computer
resource in the initial part of the Section is the same computer resource as CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 67 of 76 used in the later part of the Section. The latter resource cannot be a sub-set
or a species of the former. It has to be the entire computer resource which
was initially connected when the uploading of the information or data took
place. Thus, if an information or data has been uploaded on a computer
network, the platforms would be bound to remove it and disable it from that
computer network completely. Any other interpretation of Section 79(3)(b) would not give proper meaning to the use of the words "that material" and
"that resource". 79. Thus, the removal and disablement is intricately connected to the
information that is uploaded and the system upon which it is uploaded,
where it resides. 80. There is no doubt that when the uploading of information or data
takes place by a user upon any computer resource of these platforms, the
same is made available on a global basis by the platforms. 81. The act of uploading vests jurisdiction in the Courts where the
uploading takes place. If any information or data has been uploaded from
India on to a computer resource which has resulted in residing of the data on
the network and global dissemination of the said information or data, then
the platforms are liable to remove or disable access to the said information
and data from that very computer resource. The removal or disabling cannot
be restricted to a part of that resource, serving a geographical location. 82. Thus, if uploading of data which the Court considers defamatory or
offensive has taken place from IP addresses located in India, then Indian
Courts would have jurisdiction to direct the platforms to remove and disable
access to the said information or material, from the computer network of
these platforms on to which the said information and data has been CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 68 of 76 replicated. The material/information having originated from India, courts in
India would have jurisdiction to direct removal of the same. After uploading
of the data or information if the same has been replicated or disseminated or
stored in different servers/computers in different geographical locations, the
same would not mean that Courts would lose jurisdiction on the same, as the
data/material/information was uploaded from India, in the first place. So
long as the uploading from India led to the data or information ‗residing in'
the network or being ‗connected to' the network, the same ought to be
disabled or blocked globally. Any other interpretation of Section 79 would
result in reducing the efficacy of the provision which equates the computer
resource which initially created the information and the resource from where
it is to be disabled or removed. 83. The term "access" is defined extremely broadly under Section 2(a) and means "gaining entry into, instructing or communicating with the
logical, arithmetical, or memory function resources of a computer, computer
system or computer network.‖ Thus, by geo-blocking and disabling access
to viewers from India with the offending material continuing to reside in
global platforms which users can gain entry into, access would not be fully
disabled. There is an obligation upon the intermediary to disable access,
which would have to be read as meaning to completely disable access and
not partially disable access. Further, expeditiously remove or disable access
casts not just a negative obligation, but a positive obligation on the platforms
to remove the offending content from that computer resource in a manner so
as to ensure that access is fully disabled. 84. Removal or disabling of access under Section 79(3)(b) of information
or data uploaded from India is not restricted as meaning removal or CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 69 of 76 disabling or access only to users located in India. The removal or disabling
is linked with "that resource" and not with the location of the user or
viewer. Thus, geo-blocking as is being suggested by the platforms would not
be in consonance with Section 79 or with the purport and intent of the
Supreme Court in the judgment of Shreya Singhal (supra). 85. The question then arises as to what should be the exact order of
injunction that is to be passed in the present case. As observed earlier, all
the Defendant platforms have agreed to disable the access to the URLs in the
India domain thus, they do not have an objection if the injunction is
restricted to the India domain by availing of geo-blocking. They only object
to the injunction being extended on a global basis. 86. Insofar as the argument that the Act only applies to the territory of
India is concerned, a perusal of Section 75 of the Act shows that the IT Act does have extra territorial application to offences or contraventions
committed outside India, so long as the computer system or network is
located in India. Thus, so long as either the uploading takes place from
India or the information/data is located in India on a computer resource,
Indian courts would have the jurisdiction to pass global injunctions. 87. The capacity of these platforms to disable or block access is not really
in doubt, inasmuch as any content or data or information which is violative
of the platforms‟ own policies is always blocked or removed on a global
basis. This is admitted by all the platforms in the submissions made before
the Court, as also the written statements and written submissions that have
been filed before this Court. A perusal of YouTube‟s Community Guidelines
shows that the platform asks users to refrain from posting content with
nudity/sexual content, "harmful or dangerous content", which is described as CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 70 of 76 videos that "encourage others to do things that might cause them to get
badly hurt‖, hate speech, violent or graphic content, harassment and
cyberbullying, spam, threats and content that violates copyrights. The
YouTube Terms of Service further state as under: such as drugs, firearms etc, content that encourages suicide or self-injury,
content with child nudity/sexual exploitation of children, hate speech,
violence and graphic content, sexual solicitation, "cruel and insensitive" 88. The Defendants have relied upon the judgment in Suresh Jindal (supra) to argue that the Court ought not to grant an injunction against
exhibition in foreign countries. On the basis of this judgment, it is argued
that the injunction should be restricted only to a medium available in India.
In this judgment, the Supreme Court has observed as under: 89. In Modi Entertainment Network and Another v. W.S.G. Cricket PTE
Ltd (2003) 4 SCC 341, the Supreme Court clearly confirms the principles
that even an anti-suit injunction can be granted which will have an impact in
a foreign shore so long as the parties are subject to in personam jurisdiction.
However, such a power should be exercised sparely and in exceptional
circumstances as also for good and sufficient reasons and to prevent any
injustice. Thus, both the judgments cited before the Court do not lay down a
proposition that Indian Courts cannot give injunctions which have a global
effect. 90. Applying these very principles to the present case, it is clear that any
order passed by the Court has to be effective. The parties before this Court
i.e. the platforms are sufficiently capable to enforce an order of global
blocking. Further, it is not disputed that the platforms are subject to in
personam jurisdiction of this Court. The argument of the platform is that
owing to the disparity in the law of defamation in the different jurisdiction,
such an order ought not to be passed. Final conclusions 91. The race between technology and the law could be termed as a hare
and tortoise race - As technology gallops, the law tries to keep pace. 92. This Court is of the opinion that any injunction order passed by the
Court has to be effective. The removal and disablement has to be complete
in respect of the cause over which this Court has jurisdiction. It cannot be
limited or partial in nature, so as to render the order of this Court completely
toothless. If geo-blocking alone is permitted in respect of the entire content,
there cannot be any dispute that the offending information would still reside
in the global platforms of the Defendants, and would be accessible from
India, not only through VPN and other mechanisms, but also by accessing
the international websites of these platforms. It is not unknown that the
Canadian, European and American websites of Google, Facebook, You
Tube and Twitter can be accessed in India through various technological
means. This would thus result in partial disabling and partial removal. 93. Orders of Courts are meant to be implemented fully and effectively.
While the Defendant - platforms are raising issues in respect of comity of
Courts, conflict of laws and the right of freedom of speech and expression
under Article 19(1)(a) , what is to be borne in mind is also the rights of
privacy, the right of reputation of a citizen, national security, national
integrity, threats to sovereignty, etc. The balance is always hard to seek,
however, Courts can only endeavour to strike the balance. Ld. counsels for
the parties have rightly raised various concerns on both sides. This Court
has to implement the statute in its letter and spirit. 94. The interpretation of Section 79 as discussed hereinabove, leads this
Court to the conclusion that the disabling and blocking of access has to be CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 74 of 76 from the computer resource, and such resource includes a computer network,
i.e., the whole network and not a mere (geographically) limited network. It
is not disputed that this resource or network is controlled by the Defendants.
When disabling is done by the Platforms on their own, in terms of their
policies, the same is global. So, there is no reason as to why court orders
ought not to be global. All offending material which has therefore, been
uploaded from within India on to the Defendants‟ computer resource or
computer network would have to be disabled and blocked on a global basis.
Since the unlawful act in case of content uploaded from India is committed
from within India, a global injunction shall operate in respect of such
content. In case of uploads which take place from outside India, the
unlawful act would be the dissemination of such content in India, and thus in
those cases the platforms may resort to geo-blocking. 95. Insofar as Google Plus is concerned, considering that it is only a
product of Google, the said Defendant is deleted from the array of parties. 96. Under these circumstances, the following directions are issued to the
platforms: 97. I.A. 855/2019 is disposed of in the above terms. Needless to add, that
the views expressed herein are prima facie in nature. PRATHIBA M. SINGH, J. JUDGE
OCTOBER 23, 2019
Rahul/dj CS (OS) 27/2019 Page 76 of 76