Through: Sh. Madan Bhatia, Sr. Advocate with Sh.
 Anup Kumar Sinha, Advocate. CORAM: 2. The brief facts are that the plaintiff (hereafter "Susan" or "the
plaintiff" or "the respondent") claimed a decree for ₹ 2,00,00,000/-
(Rupees two crores) as damages and interest @ 18% p.a. on the said

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 1
 amount from the date of presentation of the plaint till actual payment.
The claim was on the basis of a swimming pool injury suffered by the
plaintiff on 05.05.1978 at (the erstwhile) Akbar Hotel ("the hotel"),
managed and maintained by the ITDC. Susan was staying in the hotel
with her parents and brother at the time she suffered the injury, which
resulted in her becoming a quadriplegic. Susan alleged that the injury
was due to the negligence of the ITDC in the maintenance of the
swimming pool. ITDC did not deny that the plaintiff was injured on
05.05.1978 in the swimming pool; it alleged, however that the injury
was on account of the plaintiff's negligence for which it could not be
held liable. The pleadings: Suit averments 3. The suit alleged that in May, 1978, Susan, whilst on vacation in
India with her parents stayed in the hotel, which was managed by
ITDC. On 05.05.1978, during her stay, she went to the swimming pool
at about 5:15 PM for a swim. Susan was an experienced swimmer, a
Queensland (Australia) under-age champion and a member of the
Queensland Women's Water Polo Team for several years. She was, in
the beginning of 1978, invited to join the Australian Women's Water
Polo Team and was expected to travel to Germany with the Australian
team in August, 1979. On the fateful day, i.e., on 05.05.1978, at about
5:15 PM, she jumped from the shallow end, into the swimming pool
opposite the diving board. Susan relied on an implied representation
by the swimming pool owner that the pool floor would not be slippery
and would be safe for users to stand on without slipping. The plaint

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 2
 alleged negligence on the part of ITDC in covering the pool floor with
glazed and consequently slippery tiles, as well as in not properly
cleaning and maintaining the pool floor leading to growth and
accumulation of slime on the tiles. Resultantly, when Susan jumped
into the water and her feet touched the pool floor, she slipped,
resulting in loss of control. She fell backwards and her head hit against
the wall of the pool. This fall led to Susan suffering serious head and
back injuries and being unable to swim out of the pool. Her father and
brother sensing that she was injured and upon noticing blood in the
water, immediately swam to Susan's assistance and lifted her out of
the pool carefully. Subsequently, she was removed by ambulance to
the Holy Family Hospital, Okhla, New Delhi where she was treated by
Dr Arjun Sehgal and Professor Ramamurthi, who had come from
Madras. 4. According to the plaint, Dr Sehgal diagnosed that Susan had
suffered a head injury with fracture dislocation of the cervical dorsal
column causing paralysis of the four limbs and loss of sphincter
control. Dr Sehgal later advised that Susan should be transported to
her home in Brisbane, Australia. After a prolonged hospitalization in
Delhi, accompanied by a neurosurgeon and another doctor, she was
flown to Australia. From 16.06.1978 to 27.10.1978 she remained in
the Spinal Unit of Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane and from
13.11.1978 to 18.11.1978 in the Spinal Unit of Royal North Shore
Hospital, Sydney, Australia. It is further alleged that despite sustained
medical treatment, Susan was unable to recover from the spinal

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 3
 injuries which are of a permanent character and have physically
incapacitated her for the rest of her life. She is now permanently
confined to a wheel chair, being a quadriplegic. 5. It is alleged in the plaint that apart from the physical agony and
mental anguish which the plaintiff underwent during her treatment, the
plaintiff also suffered emotional and psychological pain which will
live with her as long as she lives. Susan alleged that she had a very
bright and fruitful future ahead of her which was cut-short by
permanent disability suffered by her due to the utter negligence and
carelessness of ITDC, its employees and agents. It was alleged that
ITDC was under a duty to keep its swimming pool safe for swimmers.
The suit alleged that the incident speaks for itself and the plaintiff is
entitled to the benefit of the maxim res ipsa loquitur. ` 2 crores was
claimed in the suit, as damages computed as under:- Any guest of the hotel, who uses the pool, does so on an "as is" basis.
Furthermore, parents are entirely responsible for their children's safety
in the pool. ITDC urged that according to the rules, it did not accept
any responsibility for any accident. It was also contended that as
regards the construction of the swimming pool, the same had been

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 5
 done by the NDMC and that it conformed to the well-accepted and
well-recognized standards. ITDC further argued that Susan did not
observe the rules in regard to swimming pool usage and was wholly
negligent and, in any event, no claim could lie against it. 8. The written statement argued that Susan should not have
jumped into the pool from the shallow end and that swimmers should
use the diving board and dive into the deep end of the swimming pool.
Jumping or diving at the shallow side by Susan was wholly wrong,
negligent and contrary to the well accepted norms of swimming and
also violated rules. ITDC stated that there are fixed stairs built for
getting into the swimming pool and Susan did not enter the swimming
pool through those stairs - an act that is wholly negligent. She was
negligent in jumping into the pool from the shallow end even
assuming, without admitting that she had jumped into the pool as
alleged by her. 9. ITDC disputed the suit averments with regard to description of
the incident, denied that the bottom of the pool was slippery and also
denied that Susan slipped in the pool as alleged. Her statement of
having jumped into the swimming pool as alleged in the suit was
denied. According to ITDC, the swimming pool was cleaned in
compliance with well-recognized standards and on the date of the
incident too, the pool had been cleaned and was not slippery. The
defendant stated that as a matter of fact, the injury to Susan could not
have been suffered as a result of her jumping and slipping in the
swimming pool as alleged. ITDC argued that swimming pools with

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 6
 glazed tiles are well-accepted; it denied that the tiles covering the pool
floor at Hotel Akbar were slippery and further denied that it did not
keep the pool floor clean or properly maintained. 10. ITDC's written statement alleged that Susan and her brother
were playing in and around the swimming pool and suddenly the
accident happened. It was denied that her feet had touched the pool
floor and slipped resulting in loss of control of the plaintiff and that
her head hit against the pool wall. The written statement alleged that
the injury caused to Susan resulted in her not remembering facts in
respect of what had actually happened. Even the parents and brother of
Susan could not describe the accident when ITDC made enquiries in
this behalf from them, after the accident, before they left the hotel. It
was stated that there was a lifeguard in attendance who had
immediately gone to rescue the plaintiff after seeing the sudden
accident and that the pool was well-marked indicating the depth of
water at different places. The plaintiff was entirely responsible for the
incident. 11. Paragraph 11 of the written statement admitted that Susan did
not swim out of the pool, after suffering the injury. It further alleged
that the hotel pool attendant was responsible for bringing Susan out of
the water. ITDC alleged that Susan's parents were not close to the
pool but were at a distance relaxing in the chairs. Her brother,
however, was close to the pool but he was dazed at that point of time
and could not say what had happened. ITDC denied that Susan's
parents saw the incident or that they had rescued her. ITDC denied

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 7
 that Susan had suffered any spinal injury of a permanent character or
that she was physically incapacitated. It was even alleged that: 12. ITDC claimed that it had a daily routine for cleaning of the
swimming pool according to standard procedure and processes; there
was neither any chance of the swimming pool being slippery and
unsafe, nor was it slippery or unsafe. ITDC alleged that it provided the
help and lifeguard assistance, notified the conditions subject to which
the pool could be used as licensees, displayed information regarding
different depths of the water at different places by markings in bold
English letters. ITDC contended that the incident was the result of
violation of the conditions for use of the pool on Susan's part and her
negligence. Applicability of res ipsa loquitur was denied as were the
allegation of damages or losses. 13. On the basis of the averments pleadings, the following nine
issues were framed for trial: If so, what injuries were suffered by her? 6. Whether the plaintiff was required to observe any rules in the use of
swimming pool and she did not observe the said rules and was herself
negligent for the injuries suffered, if any? 7. Whether the swimming in the pool was at the risk and responsibility
of the plaintiff (the guest) and there was no obligation on the hotel in
this behalf? 8. Whether the defendant was in legal duty to keep the swimming pool
safe for swimming of guests and the plaintiff was entitled to the
benefit of the maxim res ipsa loquitur? 9. To what amount, if any, the plaintiff is entitled? 14. The plaintiff examined 22 witnesses; including PW1 (the
plaintiff herself), PW2 Mr G.L. Beer (the plaintiff's father), PW4 Dr J.
A. Smith (Neurosurgeon-- expert witness), PW8 Mr G. L. McDonald
(expert witness), PW14 Mr K. R. Dobson (expert witness), PW18 Mr
L. I. Sly (expert witness), PW19 Mrs P. J. Beer (the plaintiff's mother)
and PW22 Dr Arjun Dass Sehgal (the doctor who initially treated the
plaintiff at Holy Family Hospital). The Learned Single Judge recorded
that apparently that there was some error in the assigning of numbers
to these witnesses. This was that Mrs P. J. Beer, shown at Sl. No. 19
of the list of witnesses, was assigned the number -PW19. Dr Arjun

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 9
 Dass Sehgal, who is shown at serial No. 22 of the list of witnesses,
was also assigned the description PW19. Therefore, the Single Judge
treated Mrs P. J. Beer as PW19 and Dr Arjun Dass Sehgal as PW22.
The ITDC examined two witnesses, namely, DW1 Dr G. G.
Manshramani and DW2 Balram Verma (the lifeguard at Akbar Hotel). Findings of the Single judge 15. On appreciation of the arguments and evidence, the Learned
Single Judge found, on Issue 1, that the power of attorney had not
been filed along with the plaint and was filed on 25.11.1991 out of
inadvertence. In any event, the plaintiff had clearly ratified the filing
of the plaint and there was no question of the plaintiff's father
misrepresenting himself to be an authorized agent. Moreover, the
Learned Single Judge held that procedural defects which do not go to
the root of the matter, cannot be permitted to defeat a just cause that a
party may advance and that a curable procedural irregularity cannot be
used to defeat a substantive right. Issue 2 was not argued by the
defendant during the hearing, and was thus not ruled on. 16. On Issue Nos. 3-8 the learned Single Judge found from the
evidence that the injuries were a fracture of the C6 and C7 vertebrae
with anterior sliding of the 7th vertebra under the 6th vertebra leading
to quadriplegia. As regards ITDC's argument that Susan had dived
into the pool and not jumped, the Single Judge found that Susan's
version of events (i.e. that she jumped in feet first) stood corroborated
by other witnesses and that nothing in the cross-examination shook

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 10
 their testimonies regarding how the incident took place. Further, the
nature of injuries established was consistent with Susan's claim about
how she entered the pool. ITDC had only adduced evidence as to the
theory that Susan had dived and not jumped, without pleading that in
its written statement. The Court could not therefore, render judgment
on a fact not pleaded. Finally, the Learned Single Judge found that the
pool floor could have been slippery, due to its glazed tiling,
aggravated by algae growth, often invisible in pools. The testimony of
Susan and her parents and the absence of evidence on the part of
ITDC to refute the suit claim led the Single Judge to conclude that the
pool was not properly maintained. The Learned Single Judge held,
consequently, that by application of the maxim res ipsa loquitur, ITDC
failed in discharging its burden of proof as regards the possible
explanation for the plaintiff's injury. 17. On Issue No. 9, the Learned Single Judge awarded Susan,
damages amounting to ₹1,82,00,000 (i.e. ₹ 5,00,000 for medical
expenses, ₹ 50,00,000 for pain and suffering, and ₹ 1,27,00,000 for
loss of earnings) along with interest at the rate of 6% per annum w.e.f.
22.01.1982 till the date of decree and 10% per annum till the date of
payment, on the decretal sum. ITDC's submissions in appeal 18. ITDC, in its grounds of appeal and submissions, argues
preliminarily that first, the suit was wrongly permitted to be instituted
by Susan as an indigent person and second, that the power of attorney

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 11
 was not validly executed in favour of her father. It was argued by Shri
K.T.S Tulsi, Learned Senior Counsel for ITDC, that the suit ought to
have been rejected as not maintainable because it was filed by a
person not authorized by the plaintiff; the signature upon the plaint
was that of the plaintiff's father. However, the power of attorney
authorizing him to institute proceedings were not on record when the
suit was filed. The Learned Single Judge, it was submitted fell into
error in regard to findings on this issue. 19. On merits, the Counsel for ITDC argued that Susan dived and
did not jump into the pool. Counsel for ITDC urged first, that Susan
could not have sustained the particular injuries that she did, by
jumping into the pool. The submission is that a burst fracture is an
unstable fracture that can result when heavy pressure is exerted on
upper part of the skull. The compression of the spinal cord in a burst
fracture causes paralysis. Since the respondent's injury was a
combination of flexion and compression, it was argued that heavy
compression is needed to fracture the C6 and C6 vertebrae. This
compression, it was urged, is lessened by the buoyant force of water
when one jumps into the pool, feet first. Thus it is urged that the
respondent could have only dived, causing her head to strike the
bottom of the pool. It is submitted that cervical spinal fractures cannot
occur when the injury is to the back of the head; the injury is required
to be on the top of the head with high force, to fracture the C6 and C7. 20. Learned Senior Counsel for ITDC submitted, on the basis of
documentary evidence (in the form of hospital records PW 19/2, PW

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 12
 19/3, PW 19/4, PW 19/5, PW 19/6, Ex. 2/34, the report of the Princess
Alexandra Hospital dated 12.11.1978, case summary and discharge
record of Holy Family Hospital) that the injury was caused by diving
and not jumping, as the doctors described it thus while writing out
these records. ITDC also submits that the oral evidence of Susan's
expert witnesses PW 4, Dr. JA Smith and PW 19, Dr. Arjun Sehgal,
the amateur swimming coach PW7, Mr. EJ King, and appellant's
expert witness DW1, Dr. Manshramani and DW 2 - Mr. Balram
Verma also indicate that the respondent did not jump into the pool.
Learned senior counsel argued that neither Susan nor her parents
disputed the hospital records as being fabricated when put to them in
cross examination. It was submitted that Susan admitted that the
doctors prepared the report of what was being told to them in her
presence and that the records of the Holy Family Hospital were
accurate; likewise Susan's parents, in their testimonies confirmed the
accuracy of the hospital records. These, argued Counsel, clearly, were
consistent with the other records that Susan had dived into the pool.
Given the nature of this overwhelming evidence, the suit claim that
she slipped after jumping into the pool feet first, was not only
improbable, but unbelievable. ITDC's Senior Counsel argued that the
Learned Single Judge fell into error in holding that the injury occurred
in the circumstances alleged by the plaintiff. 21. Learned Senior Counsel for ITDC also argued that there was
absence of evidence adduced by Susan to establish that the swimming
pool was not maintained properly and that there were algae on the

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 13
 floor, based on the depositions of witnesses. It was submitted that the
photographs and materials produced were in respect of the state of
affairs which existed much after the incident and were consequently
unreliable. It was also argued that the most reliable evidence were the
hospital records produced in the case, which established that the Susan
had dived into the swimming pool; there was no question, therefore, of
her having suffered any flexion injury, as was found in the impugned
judgment; the nature of the injuries on the head clearly indicated a
"burst" fracture and a resultant compression injury. It was argued that
this conclusion is manifest on a plain reading of the testimonies of
PW-4 and PW-22. 22. It was submitted that the Learned Single Judge fell into error in
overlooking that the plaintiff had equivocated and even indulged in
falsehood during the cross examination as to the circumstances which
led to the injury; in this situation, the maxim or rule of evidence res
ipsa loquitor was not attracted. 23. It was submitted that the medical witness, Dr. J.A. Smith, a
Neurosurgeon produced by the plaintiff admitted in cross examination
that for the injuries in the C-6 and C-7 vertebrae, there had to be
vertical compression and flexion alone was insufficient to produce
force to damage those vertebrae. It was emphasized that the plaintiff
had sustained a lacerated and contused wound on the crown of the
head, one inch long. The witnesses account, submitted Counsel, could
not be considered reliable because he was informed about what
transpired, and he deposed on that basis and on his appraisal of the x- RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 14
 Ray reports. Counsel also pointed out what according to him were
inconsistencies and improbabilities in the plaintiff's case. He also
argued that even the testimony of Dr. Arjun Sehgal supported the
ITDC, rather than the plaintiff. 24. Mr. Tulsi argued that the best evidence available was in the
form of the contemporaneous medical records and record of
examination of the plaintiff by various doctors. The best evidence
being a written record was the most trustworthy and conclusive as to
its contents. These documents undermined the plaintiff's claim
altogether, as they established that she had dived headlong into the
pool and sustained the injuries, which could not be attributed to
ITDC's actions or alleged omissions. No evidence to the contrary,
especially oral evidence, could be given preference, in view of Section
91 of the Evidence Act. Reliance was placed on the ruling of the
Supreme Court in Roop Kumar v Mohan Thedani 2003 ( 6) SCC 595
and Duli Chand v Jagmender Das 1990 (1) SCC 19. Likewise,
reliance was placed on Gurnam Singh v Surjit Singh 1975 (4) SCC 404. Counsel stressed that no amount of oral evidence to contradict
documents that are required to be maintained in terms of Section 91 ,
could have been given weight by the Court. He argued that the
Learned Single Judge fell into error in doing so. 25. Learned Senior Counsel for ITDC also submitted that the
findings in the impugned judgment regarding the glazed tiles being
slippery on account of faulty maintenance, was contrary to the record.
Here it was argued that the impugned judgment erred in not giving

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 15
 credence to the testimony of DW-2. It was argued that the testimony
of PW-14, based on the photographs Ex. PW-7/2 to 7/11 could not be
of help because the photographs were taken four years after the
incident. Moreover, argued Counsel, Susan's father admitted in his
evidence that he made no complaint about lack of cleanliness or the
pool floor being slippery at any time whatsoever. In the circumstances,
the findings of the Learned Single Judge were unsustainable. Arguments on behalf of Susan 26. Senior Counsel for the plaintiff, Susan, Shri Madan Bhatia, had
urged that Susan was aggrieved by the duration of the protracted
litigation given that the suit for damages was filed in January 1982 and
that the hearings in the appeal were ongoing even as of January 2013.
It is argued first, that the absence of pleadings in the written statement
as regards Susan having dived and not jumped indicates that ITDC is
advancing its case based on conjecture, second, that it has not
challenged the material findings of the Learned Single Judge, third,
that the grounds of appeal were based on falsehoods; fourth, that
ITDC's case that the Plaintiff dived and did not jump was contrary to
the facts on record. Susan also filed cross objections under Order XLI,
Rule 22 stating that the loss of earnings claimed by the respondent was
₹1,30,00,000 but the learned Single Judge had decreed only ₹
1,27,00,000 for loss of earnings. 27. It is also stated that the interest rate claimed was 18% on the
decreed amount from the date of filing of the plaint till the date of

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 16
 payment in Susan's favour, whereas the Learned Single Judge decreed
an interest rate of 6% from the date of institution of plaint till the date
of decree and then a rate of 10% thereon till the date of payment. 28. Finally, it is argued that Susan did not contemplate that the
litigation would take more than 29 years (i.e. Jan 1982 to Feb 2011) to
be completed. This delay, it is alleged, was caused by delaying tactics
employed by ITDC, while the plaintiff was diligent in pursuing the
litigation with great diligence, having completed recording all
evidence in 1991. The expenses of the litigation were borne entirely
by Legal Aid, Government of Queensland. Further, the damages
awarded were estimated in Australian Dollars ("AUD") and then
converted into the Indian Rupee ("INR") at the prevailing rate in 1982,
of 1 AUS = ₹ 9. Due to the drastic decline in the exchange rate of the
Australian Dollar, any award of damages in INR will be a paltry sum
once converted to AUD for use in Australia by the respondent. Points for determination 29. The following points arise for decision: Whether the swimming pool floor had algae and other
 slippery material on it due to lack of maintenance? (4) Whether, if any, compensation is to be paid? (5) Whether the finding as to the interest rate by the Learned
 Single Judge merits interference? Point No. 1: whether the plaint was filed by duly authorized person 30. ITDC argued that Mr. G. L. Beer did not have the requisite
power of attorney which was filed on 15.11.1991 because first, the
procedure that Mr. Beer claims to have followed is contrary to the
procedure in Chapter IV of the Delhi High Court (Original Side)
Rules, 1967 and second, the power of attorney filed is not notarized by
anyone and does not bear the endorsement of the Court official to
whom it was submitted. The Learned Single Judge held that

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 18
 procedural irregularities that do not go to the root of the matter cannot
be a reason to deny substantive rights of parties and that Courts, under
the Civil Procedure Code, have the power to ensure that injustice is
not done to parties with a just cause. The Single Judge relied on
United Bank of India v. Naresh Kumar (1996) 6 SCC 660 in holding
so. 31. This Court however, notices that ITDC has not challenged these
findings of the Learned Single Judge in relation to filing of the suit by
an authorized person, or the due institution of the action, in the present
appeal. During the hearing, Learned Senior Counsel for the ITDC
merely reiterated the averment in the plaint that so long as the suit was
filed without authority, it cannot be deemed to have been instituted on
the file of this court. By the time the relevant authorisation was
produced, the time granted by law had expired. Since the findings of
the Learned Single Judge are unchallenged in the appeal, these
findings continue to stand. In any event, this Court finds that both the
objections raised by ITDC on this point are procedural objections that
do not go to the root of the matter in the plaint, i.e. the questions of
culpability for negligence - whether ITDC breached a duty of care to
avoid reasonably foreseeable injury to the Susan and causation of
negligence - whether the Susan's injury and quadriplegia was a
reasonably foreseeable consequence of the ITDC's acts or omissions.
Therefore, this finding of the Learned Single Judge, as to
maintainability on the ground of whether it was instituted by a duly
authorized person is sound and does not call for interference. RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 19
 Point No. 2: Whether the suit was wrongly allowed to be filed as a
 suit in forma pauperis under Order XXXIII of the Civil Procedure
 Code? 32. IPA 1/82 (application to sue in forma pauperis) was admitted as
a suit in forma pauperis by way of the order dated 24.09.1982 of the
Learned Single Judge, in which it was observed that ITDC had
repeatedly sought adjournments. After notice of the IPA was issued on
24.02.1982 to the defendant's counsel and the Standing counsel for the
Government, time was sought for filing replies, which was allowed
with an adjournment till 5.04.1982. Reply was filed on 18.03.1982 but
on 5.04.1982, and several successive dates (10.05.1982, 5.08.1982 and
22.09.1982) permission was sought by the Government Pleader and on
the last date, by ITDC, to make enquiries regarding the financial status
of the plaintiff. Time was granted and ultimately on 22.09.1982, the
Court refused further extension of time, declining a request for
adjournment. ITDC on the same day sought, in the alternative, to
examine Susan, under Order XXXIII, Rule 6. The Learned Single
Judge, having granted three adjournments refused to grant another
adjournment and allowed the IPA and directed it to be registered as a
suit on 24.09.1982. That order observes that even after a suit is
admitted in forma pauperis, the ITDC continues to have a right under
Order XXXIII, Rule 9 to show that the plaintiff is not indigent. 33. Keeping in mind this history, it is the opinion of this Court that
the appellant was granted several chances from 5.04.1982 to adduce
evidence and be heard under Order XXXIII, Rules 6 and 7. ITDC
however chose to forsake this by instead, waiting for the report of the

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 20
 Government of NCT pleader, thus delaying the process by 7 months.
As noted in A. Prabhakaran Nair vs K.P. Neelakantan Pillai AIR
1988 Ker 267: [emphasis supplied] 34. ITDC, thus continued to have a right under Order XXXIII, Rule
9 under which provision the Court can withdraw permission to file as

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 21
 an indigent person even after an IPA is admitted. At the relevant time
of enquiry, it was granted sufficient opportunity to enter its opposition
as to why the suit should not be treated as one having been filed in
forma pauperis. Moreover, Rules 10, 11 and 11-A of Order XXXIII
make it amply clear that the scheme of Order XXXIII is merely to
defer and not to altogether cancel the liability to pay court fee. 35. For these reasons, this Court is of the opinion that there is no
infirmity in the admission of the suit in forma pauperis. Point No. 3: Does res ipsa loquitur apply in this case? 36. In the common law of negligence, the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur
(Latin for "the thing speaks for itself") states that the elements of duty
of care and breach can be sometimes inferred from the very nature of
the accident, even without direct evidence of how any defendant
behaved. Although modern formulations differ by jurisdiction, the
common law originally stated that the accident must satisfy two
conditions. Upon a proof of res ipsa loquitur, the plaintiff need only
establish the remaining two elements of negligence--namely, that the
plaintiff suffered injury/damage, of which the accident was the
immediate cause. 37. Indian tort law views the principle of res ipsa loquitur as one
that shifts the burden of proof onto the defendant if first, the fact of
injury is shown to have occurred by the plaintiff, second, the plaintiff
is unable to establish the causation for the injury, third, the fact of the
incident causing injury itself justifies the inference that the cause is

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 22
 primarily within the knowledge of the defendant. See Syad Akbar v.
State of Karnataka , (1980) 1 SCC 30; Shyam Sunder v. State of
Rajasthan , (1974) 1 SCC 690; Pushpabai Purshottam v. Ranjit
Ginning & Pressing Co. , (1977) 2 SCC 745. In Shyam Sundar (supra)
the Court held that: In Syad Akbar (supra), the Supreme Court noted that the cases in
which it is appropriate to employ res ipsa loquitur are those in which
the event or accident is of a kind that it "does not happen in the
ordinary course of things if those who have the management and

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 23
 control use due care". The burden then shifts on the defendant to
show that the accident is not a consequence of the negligence of the
defendant or that the accident could not have been avoided by exercise
of ordinary care and caution on part of the defendant. The Court
elaborated on this, in the following manner: In our opinion, for reasons that follow, the first line of
 approach which tends to give the maxim a larger effect
 than that of a merely permissive inference, by laying down
 that the application of the maxim shifts or casts even in the
 first instance, the burden on the defendant who in order to
 exculpate himself must rebut the presumption of
 negligence against him.." RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 24
 In view of the above discussion, it is held that the applicability of res
ipsa loquitor is a fact-based, contextual determination. Since the rule
is one of evidence, and not a dogma which relieves the plaintiff from
the burden of proving his or her claim, the principle that emerges is
that res ipsa loquitor can be applied, once it is held that the plaintiff
established the injury; the onus then would shift on the
defendant/ITDC to explain the circumstances and whether it took the
requisite care to avoid a foreseeable event. Issue 3 (i): Did the plaintiff suffer injury as she alleged 38. PW 2/33, the investigation report prepared on the date of discharge
of the plaintiff, (Susan) i.e. 13.6.78 at the Holy Family Hospital was
drawn up by Dr. Arjun Sehgal, PW 19. PW 19/1, the admission and
discharge report was also signed by Dr. Sehgal. These indicate that
Susan suffered a fracture of the C6 and C7 with slight anterior sliding
of C7 under C6. PW 4/1 written by Dr. JA Smith indicates that she
suffered a fracture of C7 vertebral body with an anteriorly detached
bone fragment. As a consequence of the fracture of her cervical
column, Susan suffered quadriplegia as documented in PW 2/33, PW
19/1, PW 4/1. 39. PW 19/2, medical report signed by Dr. Midha; PW 19/3 is a case
summary and discharge recorded signed by some other doctor, PW
19/4 is a history sheet signed by some other doctor; PW 19/5, PW 19/6
and other consultation records forwarded by Dr. Sehgal to Dr. Rana,
Dr. Pant, Dr. Ramamurthy, Dr. Mathur, and Dr. Singh respectively.
None of the doctors who recorded these documents were examined

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 25
 before the Court. State of Maharashtra v. Damu s/o Gopinath Shinde,
AIR 2000 SC 1691 is an authority for the proposition that without
examination of such doctors, the Court cannot accept the version of
events recorded in the hospital records marked at PW 19/2-19/6. It has
been held in Damu (supra) that: No such procedure was adopted in the present case; therefore, the
hospital records, though contemporaneous, cannot be given such
importance as to prevail over the testimonies of the doctors who
deposed in court as experts - especially those who treated the plaintiff,
immediately after the accident. 40. The injury was described as being "a small cut on the back" of
Susan's head (Plaintiff depositions, vol. 1, p.7). On being shown
hospital records in which the injury was recorded as having been a
"contused lacerated wound one inch long in left parietal area just

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 26
 along mid-line" (Plaintiff docs, vol.1, p. 94), Susan agreed that the
injury occurred at the area being pointed to by Mr. Tulsi i.e. "on the
crown and is approximately an inch long going forward from the
crown" and "slightly to the left of the midline". 41. For a better appreciation of the nature of the injury, an image of
the human skull with description of its distinct parts or regions is
reproduced below: Dr. JA Smith in his cross examination by Mr. Tulsi states that the
injury in the instant case was one of flexion (p. 178). It is pertinent to
extract from Dr. JA Smith's chief examination by Mr. Bhatia (p. 175): While PW-4 Dr. Smith maintained, throughout his chief and cross
examination that a fracture like the one in the instant case always has

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 28
 some degree of compression, he is categorical in his statement that the
injury in this case is largely a flexion injury. 43. DW-1 Dr. Manshramani states in his chief examination on
viewing the x-rays that PW 1/14 and PW 1/13 indicates fracture of C6
and C7 (Def. docs p. 169). He terms the fracture an "unstable one
caused by compression and flexion forces" and states that fragment
indicates "severe compression" (p. 169). He states that PW 1/16
shows the fragment of vertebra as well, the significance of which is
that it indicates an unstable fracture which causes paralysis of the
limbs (Def docs p. 161). The Learned Single Judge did not take into
account the evidence of DW-1 for two reasons. The first was that he
was seen to be an interested witness, who accompanied the ITDC team
to Australia, when deposition was recorded on behalf of the plaintiff;
he assisted in the process on behalf of the defendant ITDC. The
second was that DW-1 could not be considered as an expert, given the
nature of his discipline and lack of experience whatsoever in the
relevant field. This Court is of the opinion that Dr. Manshramani
cannot be considered an expert in terms of Section 45 of the Evidence
Act. He practiced as a consultant physician, and neither as a
neurologist nor an orthopedic surgeon. When asked in his cross
examination what his special subject of study was in M.D., Mr.
Manshramani states "Medicine as a whole. All systems of body
excluding skin." Section 45 of the Evidence Act, 1872 may be
reproduced here for convenience: RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 29
 "45. Opinions of experts.- When the Court has to form an
 opinion upon a point of foreign law, or of science, or art,
 or as to identity of handwriting or finger impressions, the
 opinions upon that point of persons specially skilled in
 such foreign law, science or art, or in questions as to
 identity of handwriting or finger impressions are relevant
 facts. Such persons are called experts. The threshold for the evidence of an expert witness is that of special
skill in the area foreign to the Court (Ref. State of Himachal Pradesh
v. Jai Lal and Ors. , (1999) 7 SCC 280; Ramesh Chandra Agrawal v.
Regency Hospital Ltd and ors., (2009) 9 SCC 709). The Supreme
Court in Jai Lal (supra) has interpreted the meaning of this provision: Dr. Manshramani, DW-1 neither studied neurosurgery nor orthopedics
as a matter of particular study or practice, and he did not possess
special knowledge of the subject. His exposure to neurosurgery
extended to teaching the subject in the University he was employed in.
On this count, this Court is of the opinion that Dr Manshramani's
evidence cannot be considered as opinion of an expert witness under Section 45 of the Evidence Act. RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 30 44. This Court thus concludes that the injury suffered by Susan was
a fracture of the cervical 6th and 7th bones - a flexion injury with some
degree of compression, resulting in quadriplegia. This injury was
caused when Susan jumped into the swimming pool, with her feet
first. On making contact with the floor of the pool, her feet slipped
forwards, causing her to fall backwards and hit her head to the side of
the pool. Point No. 3(ii): Whether the nature of the injury and the manner in
which it was sustained was established by the plaintiff, so as to create
a presumption of negligence on the part of the ITDC? 45. This Court is of the opinion that Susan's injury leading to
quadriplegia is one that does not happen in the ordinary course of
things, on jumping into the shallow end of the pool, especially given
her status and background as a champion swimmer. For the sake of a
complete appreciation of whether the evidence proved what she
alleged, the following extracts of her cross examination, conducted in
Australia, on behalf of ITDC on 24-10-1991 during the commission
executed for the purpose: I further put it to you that it is impossible to receive this
 injury by striking against the wall or the edge of the
 pool? (Ans) I say to you that the accident happened as I
 remembered and told you. I put it to you that you could only have sustained this
 injury if you had struck your head against the bottom of
 the pool?- (Ans) My head was nowhere near the bottom of the pool.
 I jumped in feet first." In the cross examination, Susan was asked to respond to an entry in
the medical records of the Princess Alexandra Hospital, which
mentioned inter alia, that she had sustained an injury in a "diving"
accident. She replied, that she was "never interviewed by Dr. Davies
or any other doctor at the Princess Alexandra Hospital. I was never
asked with regard to my injury and how it occurred....I the Holy
Family Hospital in India I was not asked. I was not in a position to be
asked how I sustained the injury." Later, the same day, i.e on 24-10-
1991, Susan asked to be shown the report, while answering the
question put forth by Mr. Tulsi; her further statement reads as follows: Susan was also asked whether she changed her version at the time of
filing of the suit for damages into having jumped and not dived into
the pool. To this suggestion, she replied: Further a pointed suggestion was given by the ITDC counsel, which
was emphatically denied: In view of the above discussion and the state of evidence, it is held
that the plaintiff established the facts and circumstances relating to the
manner in which the injury was sustained. The burden consequently
shifted on to ITDC to show either exercise of due care and caution and
thus absence of negligence on its part, or that the injury of the
respondent was not a result of the its negligence. 46. The Learned Counsel for ITDC submitted that the burden of
proof to prove negligence lies on the plaintiff/respondent drawing
from Subhash Chander v. Ram Singh 1972 ACJ 58, Aswini Kumar v.
UT of Tripura AIR 1969 Tripura 26, Champalal Jain v. BP
Venkataraman, 1966 ACJ 224, Kundan Bai Agarwala v. Skh Safdar
Ali , AIR 1960 Pat 266 Para 4, 5. However, this Court is of the opinion
that none of these cases finds application since the conditions for
triggering application of the maxim res ipsa loquitur are fulfilled in
this case. Thus, this Court is not persuaded by the submission of the
ITDC that the burden in the instant matter to prove negligence lay on
the plaintiff. 47. Once the presumption of defendant's negligence begins to
operate, the burden of proof is on the defendant to pursue two courses
of action available to him, as laid out in Shyam Sunder (supra): [emphasis supplied]

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 35 48. ITDC, in the instant case attempted both courses of action by
first submitting that the incident in fact occurred because Susan dived,
and did not jump in to the pool, thus not as a result of its negligence
and second, by attempting to adduce proof to show that the floor of the
pool was not slippery and did not have algae, thus not as a result of a
breach of their duty of care. 49. However, prior to entering the question of ITDC's discharge of
the burden of proof, this Court is compelled to observe that the
evidence of the expert witnesses cannot be used to infer the manner in
which the injury was sustained by Susan, i.e. whether she dived or
jumped into the pool for two reasons. First, the submission of ITDC
that the injury was an unstable burst fracture is contradicted by the
ITDC's own witness DW-1 Dr. Manshramani in his testimony and
second, any attempt to infer the manner in which Susan entered the
pool, from the nature of injury she suffered, would merely be
conjectural. These reasons are elaborated upon below. 50. During examination, when asked whether the degree of
compression reflected in the x-rays of the Susan's injury could have
resulted if one were to hypothetically miscalculate the depth of the
pool and dive in thus crashing "straight onto the floor", PW-4 Dr. JA
Smith replied in the negative. He states "I think it's much more likely
that this would have produced what we call a burst fracture". PW-4
also stated that a true compression injury would most likely have
resulted if the Susan had dived into the pool from the shallow end of
the pool where the water was three feet deep, if her head struck the
bottom of the pool causing an injury to the centre of the top of the

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 36
 head. Both Dr. Arjun Sehgal, and Dr. JA Smith, deposed in their cross
examination and chief examination respectively that a burst fracture
would have resulted from a true vertical compression injury. Both
these expert witnesses having examined the plaintiff at the earliest
point in time, deposed such was not injury in the x-rays of this case.
Thus, both these expert witnesses for the plaintiff deposed that the
injury was not a burst fracture i.e. true compression injury. 51. ITDC's submission is that the injury suffered by Susan is an
unstable fracture causing paralysis. Its witness DW-1, after viewing
x-Rays PW 1/7 to PW 1/16, deposed that the x-rays indicate an
unstable fracture which causes paralysis of the limbs. In the
submissions of ITDC, it is argued that heavy pressure on the upper
part of the skull causes unstable fracture of the cervical, which
compresses the spinal cord to cause paralysis. It is also the case of the
ITDC, that a burst fracture is an unstable fracture and that diving is a
way to cause burst fracture. It is argued that unless there is heavy
pressure or compression on the C6 and C7 vertebrae, an unstable burst
fracture cannot be caused. DW-1 also stated that the compression
force resulting from someone slipping and hitting the back of his or
her head to the wall of a pool is not sufficient to cause the fracture of
C6 and C7 vertebrae, as in the instant case, because when one hits his
or her head on the back, the chin hinges forward and makes contact
with the upper part of the chest, thus preventing an injury to the C6
and C7. 52. At the outset, this submission of the appellants falls as their
expert witness DW 1, Dr. Manshramani in the cross-examination

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 37
 states, when asked if he sees any evidence of burst fracture in any of
the x-rays of Susan: "Burst fractures cannot be seen in x-rays". By
virtue of this glaring inconsistency in ITDC's case and its evidence,
this Court is not swayed by its arguments with respect to the nature or
type of injury. 53. Moreover, this Court is also not persuaded by this ITDC's
submission as it is clear that only the nature and type of the injury can
be established by the evidence of the doctors in their testimony, and
that the version of events leading to the injury cannot be established
through expert witnesses. Only the account of events from the
plaintiff/plaintiff's eye witnesses or direct contradicting testimony
from the eye witnesses on behalf of the defendant can be used to
discern the manner in which an injury of this nature could have
resulted. Any other evidence is necessarily hypothetical and
conjectural. This is also evident from Dr. Smith's statement after
recounting Susan's version of events: Dr. Sehgal also stated that

 "The injury which the Respondent has suffered could
 have been caused from the description given to me of the
 accident" RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 38
 These witnesses are only able to state that the injury of Susan was a
plausible consequence of her having jumped into the pool, feet first.
Even DW-1 Dr. Mansharamani, the expert witness for ITDC, stated in
his cross-examination that: For the above reasons, this Court is of the opinion that the expert
testimony on the nature of the injury (i.e. that it is a largely flexion
injury with some degree of compression) cannot be relied upon in
order to establish the manner in which the injury was suffered. 54. During the hearing of the appeal - as well as during the trial,
Learned Counsel for the ITDC laboured to establish that the nature of
the injuries can be used to infer the manner in which the injury
occurred. The submission was that the nature of the injury indicated an
unstable burst fracture and a compression injury, which could only
result from diving, head first in to the pool. Apart from the fact that
this line of reasoning is entirely conjectural, as observed earlier, this
effort was entirely dissimulative to say the least. On the point of the
manner in which the injury was sustained, the deposition of PW-1 and
PW-2 were clear as to what transpired on the fateful day; the re-
creation of the incident was coherent and clear. ITDC's cross
examination and attempts to discredit these depositions and the
references to the expression "jump" in various documents, to
somehow show that Susan dived into the pool head first at the shallow

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 39
 end were baseless. In the cross examination of PW-19, Dr. Sehgal
(who deposed that he was the first doctor to examine the plaintiff on
the date of the incident, after she was taken to the hospital) a
suggestion was put to him more than once that Susan had not jumped
but dived. At each stage, he deposed that the account received by him
was that she jumped into the pool - Susan too had told him that. ITDC
places great emphasis on two documents, including one recorded by
Dr. Sehgal, which refer to the plaintiff having dived, resulting in the
incident. The concerned doctor, Dr. Middha, was not examined;
moreover, Dr. Sehgal stated that even though at one place, the
expression "dived" was used, the same day, in a note, Ex. PW-2/34 he
had expressly recorded that the plaintiff was said to have "jumped"
into the pool. The first document in this regard also stated that the
plaintiff is 'alleged' to have dived into the pool. 55. This Court is of the opinion that the terms "jumping" or
"diving" cannot be over-emphasized on behalf of the Defendant/ITDC
to derive semantic hairsplitting mileage. Here, it would be useful to
notice that in the suit, the plaintiff had stated that as soon as she
"jumped into the water and her feet touched the floor of the pool, they
slipped resulting in loss of control of the plaintiff and the plaintiff fell
backwards and her head hit against the wall of the pool." After
stating at two places in the written statement that the plaintiff did not
jump into the pool in the manner alleged by the plaint, it was averred
by the ITDC that: RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 40
 " Apparently, the plaintiff fell into the swimming pool
 otherwise than as alleged and suffered injury because of
 her own negligence and failure to take due care. As a
 matter of fact, the plaintiff and her brother had indulged
 in some abrupt play and shockingly all of a sudden the
 Plaintiff was seen later in the swimming pool before any
 one of those present at the swimming pool could have
 known what was happening and helped her. The accident
 happened suddenly and in such a manner that no one
 could have avoided the accident." From paragraphs 7 and 9 of the written statement, it is clear that the
ITDC merely states by way of conjecture that the respondent had
"fallen" into the pool otherwise than as claimed by her without
advancing any averment on how Susan had fallen into the pool.
Moreover, in para 6, the ITDC has itself used the terms jumping and
diving loosely and interchangeably, claiming that either method of
entering the pool was wrong. Thus, it is clear from their averments in
the written statement that their case never hinged on how Susan was
negligent by "diving" as opposed to "jumping". 56. As regards DW2's testimony as to the manner in which the
injury was sustained, ITDC denied that the plaintiff's relatives took
her out of the pool; it averred that one of its attendants, Balram
Verma, DW-2, brought Susan out of the pool. However, this Court is
constrained to disregard the evidence of DW-2 on the manner in
which the injury was injured, due to the several inconsistencies in his
depositions. He stated there was a bump on Susan's head (at p. 245
defendant documents) and that it had become "redish". This is
patently false given that both parties in this dispute agree that Susan's

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 41
 lacerated wound was around the crown of head, covered by hair, and
there was no injury to any part of her head that could have become
reddish. Likewise, while the written statement of the ITDC itself states
in paragraph 11 that the parents of Susan were relaxing in the chairs
near the pool, DW-2 contradicts these statements by stating that
Susan's mother was not in the vicinity of the accident (p. 285) and
father was at the counter near the register (p. 259). The single judge
observed in relation to DW-2 in the impugned judgment: Given the inconsistencies in his depositions, this court thus finds no
infirmity with the approach and conclusions of the Learned Single
Judge as regards DW-2's account of the manner in which the injury
was sustained. 57. Having not pleaded anywhere in the written statement that the
plaintiff dived headlong into the swimming pool (discussed in greater
detail under Point no. 3(iii)), ITDC could not have taken advantage of
that ambivalence and theorized, during the trial that Susan in fact
dived head first. Its efforts to somehow establish that the injuries

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 43
 sustained by Susan could be explained only as a result of a burst stable
fracture, i.e. implying a vertical impact on the head due to a headlong
fall, are speculative afterthoughts. For these reasons, this Court
observes that Susan has established the nature and the manner in
which the injury was sustained, thus creating a presumption of
negligence on the part of the ITDC. Point No. 3(iii): Can the question of the Respondent having jumped or
dived be decided at this stage and if so, whether disregarding hospital
records was impermissible under Section 92 of the Evidence Act 58. It would be useful in the context of the question to be
considered, to extract the findings in the impugned judgment, which
discuss the direct evidence as to what happened, more particularly the
testimonies of the plaintiff, Susan (PW-1) and her father Geoffrey
Beer (PW-2). As to Susan's deposition, the Learned Single Judge
noticed, inter alia, that: PW-2's testimony was, likewise, discussed in the following manner: 59. The Learned Counsel for the ITDC argued that the Learned
Single Judge erred in rejecting the submission that the plaintiff had
dived and not jumped in to the pool, a finding that is argued to be

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 47
 contrary to the evidence on record. The Counsel submits on evidence,
first, that the oral evidence of the respondent cannot be allowed as it
contradicts the hospital records in PW 19/2 and 19/4, history sheets
signed in the hand of PW 19, Dr. Arjun Sehgal, thus violating Section
92 , Evidence Act; second, that the Single Judge ignored the evidence
of E.J. King, PW 7, Susan's swimming coach who stated that the usual
entry into the pool is not to jump but to dive, and that swimmers are
trained to program themselves subconsciously to dive; third, that the
Single Judge has not considered that Susan's doctor himself states that
it was a case of diving and not jumping. The Counsel for the ITDC
also argued that the nature of the injury indicates that Susan must have
dived as such an injury could not have resulted from jumping into the
pool feet first. 60. However, the Learned Single Judge had observed in Para 45 of
the impugned judgment that the alleged fact of diving not having been
pleaded in the written statement, cannot be introduced in evidence by
the ITDC. The appellant ITDC has not challenged this finding of the
Learned Single Judge in their grounds of appeal, and as such, this
finding continues to stand. Rule 2 of Order VIII of the Civil
Procedure Code may be reproduced for convenience: The meaning of this Rule is elaborated upon in Udhav Singh v.
Madhav Rao Scindia , AIR 1976 SC 744, paragraph 22 that: 61. It is a settled principle of law that the decision of a case cannot
be found on grounds outside the pleadings of the parties. See Trojan
and Co. v. Nagappa AIR 1953 SC 235, Kalyan Singh Chouhan v. CP
Joshi, (2011) 11 SCC 786. Evidence in absence of pleadings in that
regard and evidence produced by the parties at variance with the
pleadings cannot be considered or relied upon. See Union of India v.
Ibrahim Uddin , (2012) 8 SCC 148, ¶62; Kashi Nath through LRs. v.
Jaganath (2003) 8 SCC 740; Ram Sarup Gupta through LRs v. Bishun
Narain Inter College , AIR 1987 SC 1242. 62. The plaint states at paragraph: "That the plaintiff jumped into
the pool from the shallow side opposite the diving board." The

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 49
 Plaintiff in her chief examination also states that as soon as she
jumped into the pool, her feet slid forward throwing her backwards
against the side of the pool, thus causing her head to strike the side of
the pool. During her cross-examination, the Plaintiff reiterates that she
"jumped in" and her "feet slipped on the bottom of the pool" and she
"fell back" and struck her head. When told that she could have only
sustained this injury by striking against the wall or the edge of the
pool, she replied "My head was nowhere near the bottom of the pool. I
jumped in feet first." On re-examination, she stated: 63. ITDC's Written Statement at no point advanced the argument
that Susan had in fact, dived and not jumped in to the pool. It would
be relevant to extract the relevant parts of the written statement: 64. As briefly mentioned earlier, from paragraphs 7 and 9, it is clear
that the ITDC merely states by way of conjecture that Susan had
"fallen" into the pool otherwise than as claimed by her, without
advancing any averment on how Susan had fallen into the pool.
Moreover, the extract of paragraph 6 of the written statement indicates
that the ITDC only avers that Susan ought not to have jumped into the

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 51
 pool in the shallow side. Further, in para 6, the ITDC has itself used
the terms jumping and diving loosely and interchangeably, claiming
that either method of entering the pool was wrong. This averment in
the written statement thus clearly does not hinge on whether diving
was particularly negligent as against jumping. 65. That Susan "took a vertical dive" was raised for the first time by
the ITDC in evidence, in the statement of DW 2, Shri Balram Verma,
lifeguard on duty (whose testimony has been held to not be credible,
under Point 3(ii)). The theory that Susan dived and did not jump in to
the pool was then put forth as a hypothetical question to Susan in her
cross examination. In fact, in the cross-examination of plaintiff's
expert witness Mr. JA Smith, on behalf of ITDC, the Learned Counsel
for Susan objected that ITDC's "initial case" during his cross
examination was that the respondent's supposed dive was at an angle
of 45 degrees, after which he has shifted his case to 60 or 70 degrees.
To this, ITDC's counsel responded categorically (p. 191 of the
commission's procedings) stating: "I've not put my case. All these are
hypothetical." Subsequently (p. 192), Mr. Tulsi on behalf of ITDC
also clarified to Dr. AJ Smith, PW-4 that his hypotheticals were not
with respect to the Respondent's specific incident (p. 192). 66. The Counsel for ITDC sought to argue that had Susan dived and
not jumped into the pool, thus sustaining an injury that could not
possibly have resulted from jumping. However, no pleadings
regarding the alleged diving were advanced in the written statement.
This theory of diving arose only in ITDC's evidence and in the cross-
examinations of Susan's witnesses, and subsequently in the arguments

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 52
 of the ITDC. This Court is mindful that in Shyam Sundar (supra), the
Supreme Court (citing Lord Macmillan's dissent in Jones v. Great
Western - quoted at paragraph 48 in this judgment) noted the
difference between a defendant advancing a case by conjecture and
one by inference from the adduced evidence. The latter, it was
observed, was permissible. This Court holds that even if ITDC sought
to advance its case by inference from the established evidence, it
ought to have pleaded that case in its written statement. This Court
thus agrees with the findings of the Learned Single Judge in this
regard. In absence of pleadings in this regard in ITDC's written
statement, this Court is of the opinion that the question of whether the
respondent dived or jumped into the pool cannot be considered in the
appeal. 67. This being the case, the further question is whether
documentary hospital records were permitted to be contradicted by
oral evidence of PW 19 contrary to Section 92 of the Evidence Act
does not even come up for consideration. Notwithstanding this, a few
observations on this submission are apposite. Counsel for ITDC tried
to argue that the contents of the hospital records indicate that the
respondent has "dived into the pool", and that Dr. Arjun Sehgal, PW
19 has contradicted the content of documents PW 19/2, PW 19/4 in his
oral evidence by stating that that the respondent "jumped" into the
pool in oral evidence. Learned Counsel had placed reliance on Section
92 of the Evidence Act, the "best evidence rule" and on Duli Chand v.
Jagmender Dass , 1990 1 SCC 19, Roop Kumar v. Mohan Thedani ,
2003 6 SCC 595 Pradip Buragohain v Pranati Phukan , (2010) 11

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 53
 SCC 108, and Gurnam Singh v. Surjit Singh and Ors., 1975 (4) SCC
404 to advance his argument. This Court finds that this argument is
not persuasive. 68. Section 91 of the Evidence Act reads: Section 92 , like Section 91 , is based on the "best evidence rule" as
noted in Bai Hira Devi and Ors v. The Official Assignee of Bombay ,
AIR 1958 SC 447. In Bai Hira Devi (supra), it was held that: RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 54
 "The normal rule is that the contents of a document must
 be proved by primary evidence which is the document
 itself in original. Section 91 is based on what is
 sometimes described as the "best evidence rule". The
 best evidence about contents of a document is the
 document itself and it is the production of the document
 that is required by s. 91 in proof of its contents. In a
 sense, the rule enunciated by s. 91 can be said to be an
 exclusive rule inasmuch as it excludes the admission of
 oral evidence for proving the contents of the document
 except in cases where secondary evidence is allowed to
 be led under the relevant provisions of the Evidence
 Act ." 69. The need to prove contents of a document by producing it is
elaborated upon by the Supreme Court in Roop Kumar (supra), which
judgment the Learned Counsel for appellants himself has placed
reliance upon . The Court observed there that the principle underlying
this provision is to integrate all elements of a jural act namely, (a) the
enaction or creation of the act. (b) its embodiment in a single
memorial when desired; (c) its solemnization on fulfillment of the
prescribed form if any; and (d) the interpretation or application of the
act to the external objects affected by it. The consequence of
integrating all elements of a jural act into a single written expression,
is to deprive of legal effect all other utterances as regards the jural act.
In the Court's words: 70. This Court is compelled to observe that the record of an injury
does not comprise a jural act that ought to be reduced into writing so
as to deprive all other occurrence towards the act of any legal or jural
effect. No rule, statutory enactment or compulsion that enacts an
obligation to record so, as to exclude all other versions, was brought to
the notice of the Court. Thus, to use the framework of Section 91 and 92 and the best-evidence rule in the context of hospital records
recording injuries is misguided. 71. Furthermore, the words "or any matter required by law to be
reduced to the form of a document" in Section 92 , albeit present in Section 91 of the Act, do not carry the same meaning as those in Section 91 . This is so because Section 92 , unlike Section 91 , states

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 56
 that "no evidence of any oral agreement or statement shall be
admitted, as between the parties to any such instrument or their
representatives in interest". This indicates that the matters "required
by law to be reduced to the form of a document" under Section 92 are
necessarily matters which are reduced into instruments between
"parties" to the instrument. This view finds support in Sarkar on
Evidence, 15th ed. Rep. 2004, vol. 1, p.1311-1311 which states: have therefore reference to such matter as creates
 dispositive documents, such as "contract, grant or other
 disposition of property." Taken together, the words
 therefore mean, any matter required by law to be in
 writing, and which is a "contract, grant etc." ie the
 words "any matter required by law...document" are
 ejusdem generis with "contract, grant or other
 disposition of property." Documents other than
 dispositive documents required by law to be reduced to
 writing do not come within the section." 72. The omission of these words from Section 91 is that even a
third party to a document embodying a jural act between others can

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 57
 prove the said jural act only by producing the document. This view
finds support in Roop Kumar (Supra), and Bai Hira Devi (supra). Bai
Hira Devi, also held: 77. In his cross examination, nevertheless, the witness was unable
to state what algae looked like by colour and under what
circumstances algae gets deposited on the floor of the pool. Thus, even
assuming that he executed the engineer's instructions regarding
cleaning procedure, this Court cannot infer that the algae deposits
from the floor of the pool were cleaned as a consequence. 78. It is pertinent to note that Mr. K R Dobson, the plaintiff's expert
witness who was examined on pool maintenance, categorically stated
that algal growth can have occurred in a pool even though the water in
the pool may be clear. This happens when the algae are still growing
either if the chlorine levels drop or during warm weather. Mr. Dobson
also states that chlorine is consumed faster when the temperature rises;
in temperatures above 25 degrees Celsius, he states that chlorine levels
ought to be checked two times daily; finally, he states that even with
low levels of algal growth, the floor of the pool can be slippery. 79. Admittedly, Susan found the water in the pool clear and
sparkling. The ITDC also argued that Susan admitted that the water
was clear and sparkling and that, per the opinion of Mr. KR Dobson,
pool consultant, if the water is both sparkling and clear and has no
deposits, the presumption is that the pool is properly maintained.
However, this Court cannot infer that ITDC discharged the duty of

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 60
 care towards maintenance of the pool from the mere fact of sparkling
water, since algal growth can take place even when the water is clear. 80. The existence of liability for negligence depends on whether a
duty of care was owed to the plaintiff by the defendant. A duty of care
exists when it is reasonably foreseeable to the defendant that the
plaintiff would suffer injury or damage by the act or omission of the
defendant. This rule emerges from Lord Atkin's ruling in Donoghue v
Stevenson [1932] AC 562: Thus, the duty of care depends on first, proximity of plaintiff to
 defendant and second, reasonable foresight of harm to the plaintiff.
 In Caparo Industries plc v. Dickman, [1990] 2 AC 605- a judgment
 which reviewed and restated the law after an extensive survey of
 the authorities, it was held that: 81. The standard of the duty of care required to be met by ITDC
was defined in Rajkot (supra, para 53), drawing from Bolton v.
Stone, (1951) AC 850 which in turn draws from Bourhill v. Young,
[1943] AC 92. The duty of care must be such reasonable care so as to
avoid the risk of injury to such person who, the defendant can
reasonably foresee, may be injured by failure to apply such care. It
would be appropriate to quote from Lord Macmillan opinion in
Bourhill (supra): In Mitchell v Glasgow City Council, 2009 UKHL 11, the Court
explained the nature of obligation cast upon owners and occupiers, in
relation to risk assessments that they can reasonably expect: RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 62
 "The requisite additional feature that transforms what
 would otherwise be a mere omission, a breach at most of
 a moral obligation, into a breach of a legal duty to take
 reasonable steps to safeguard, or to try to safeguard, the
 person in question from harm or injury may take a variety
 of forms. Sometimes the additional feature may be found
 in the manner in which the victim came to be at risk of
 harm or injury. If a defendant has played some causative
 part in the train of events that led to the risk of injury, a
 duty to take reasonable steps to avert or lessen the risk
 may arise. Sometimes the additional feature may be found
 in the relationship between the victim and the defendant: 82. The standard of care clearly then is reasonable care to do or
refrain from doing anything, to prevent injury that is a reasonable and
probable consequence of omitting to do, or doing said act. What then is
the standard of care expected of a swimming pool owner or service
provider? For the owners of a swimming pool, the standard of care
required to be met is reasonable care towards maintenance to prevent
injury that would probably result from guests jumping into the pool in
the shallow end. Some of the duties resulting would include ensuring
that the pool is well maintained and does not pose dangers to the

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 63
 unwary user; that lifeguards are provided or available; that a doctor is
at hand in the premises; that both the surface area surrounding the pool
and the pool floor are well maintained so as not to pose a hazard; that
the use of building and other materials should be in accordance with
normal practice applicable in such cases, as would not facilitate any
accident or aggravate or increase its chances. 83. A number of reported cases in UK courts have examined, in the
context of swimming pool injury claims, the duties of occupiers, hotel
owners and travel agencies. These cases suggest that the defendant
owes no duty of care, only when the risk is obvious and inherent in the
activity undertaken by the plaintiff. In Daniel John McCarrick v Park
Resorts Ltd [2012] EWHC B27 (QB) it was held as follows: [emphasis supplied] 84. In an earlier judgment, i.e Tomlinson (FC) v. Congleton
Borough Council and Others [2003] UKHL 47 the claimant had dived
into a lake, which he knew well. His head collided with the sandy
bottom of the lake and suffered serious injuries. Although he was
permitted to be in the lake, swimming (and therefore diving) in the
lake was prohibited and his claim was ultimately before the court
under the Occupiers Liability Act 1984. The court placed particular
weight on the importance of the exercise of free will where the risk
was inherent in the activity undertaken: [emphasis supplied] 85. In the recent cases, UK Courts have, while considering specific
incidents, accepted that any risk assessment is necessarily subjective
in the first instance (the choice made by one to dive into the shallow
lake or swimming pool, for example). An objective judicial
assessment is called for when a claimant seeks redress in tort. The
creator of the causal risk (i.e. the occupier) would, generally be liable
for the harm. However, creation of the risk must, Courts indicate, be
distinguished from assumption of the risk that is inherent in the act

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 66
 undertaken (as would be the case with the defence of consent or
volenti non fit injuria). The operation of this defence requires that the
claimant/ victim of the accident has full knowledge of the relevant
risks and consequences and has made an informed decision to accept
both. If this is the case, the creator owes no duty to the injured
claimant and no damages can be recovered. (See Ratcliffe v
McConnell [1999] 1 WLR 670, Tomlinson v Congleton Borough
Council [2004] 1 AC 46, [2003] UKHL 47; Rhind v Astbury Water
Park Ltd [2004] EWCA Civ 756; Evans v Kosmar Villa Holidays plc
[2007] EWCA Civ 1003). In other words, therefore, potential
claimants seeking redress for injuries suffered as guests or users of
facilities will need to show that it was a risk created by the occupier
which remained the primary cause of their injury, not a risky activity
undertaken by themselves and outside the boundaries of the activities
permitted, encouraged or facilitated by the occupier. In relation to the
latter case, the loss will lie with the claimant, who cannot sue for
damages. 86. With this standard of care, ITDC as owner of the pool cannot
argue that the mere fact that the water was sparkling and clear
indicated that the pool was properly maintained. This is because algal
growth is known to occur even when the water is clear, particularly in
warm temperatures as is the case during May in Delhi, when this
incident took place. There was no evidence to show what the
maintenance regime was, except the testimony of DW-2 that chlorine
was used routinely and that he used to report silt or any foreign

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 67
 substance sometimes, for cleaning. Nothing was brought on record,
either in documentary evidence or orally to substantiate that the tiles
used by ITDC in its pools were not slippery; no tile was sent for expert
examination, nor was any expert produced in its support. Likewise,
whether the floor tiles used were in conformity with standards, and
what were the prevailing standards, was not produced or made known.
Thus, this Court agrees with the findings of the Learned Single Judge
that ITDC had not fulfilled its duty of care towards maintenance of the
pool. 87. ITDC had contended that Susan did not adduce any evidence to
show that there was algal growth on the floor of the pool. As discussed
earlier, this submission postulates the burden of proof upon the
plaintiff to establish negligence. It also sought to prove and contend
that the plaintiff had done something inherently risky, i.e. dive into the
shallow side of the pool; as discussed earlier, that effort is
unsuccessful. This Court is not persuaded by the argument that the
plaintiff had to establish negligence, in the circumstances of the case.
By the maxim res ipsa loquitur, the plaintiff need not show causation
between the injury and the defendant's act. The plaintiff need only
show the fact of injury; the mere fact of the injury justifies the
inference that the knowledge of causation lies with the defendant.
Thus the onus was on the defendant to refute causal link to its acts, by
showing either that the injury was not due to its negligence or that it
had exercised reasonable care. ITDC however failed to prove that it
took due care and precaution to avoid the accident, which was

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 68
 foreseeable. It was therefore, at fault. The findings of the learned
single judge are therefore justified on the pleadings and evidence. Point No 4: Whether, if any, compensation is to be paid? If so,
 under what heads is compensation payable? 88. On the question of compensation, ITDC submitted first, that this
incident falls within the definition of an "accident" i.e. an unintended
and unexpected event, especially when the cause is not known. For
this, reliance is placed on Shakuntala Chandrakant Shreshti v.
Prabhakar Maruti Garvali (2007) 11 SCC 668 and Hira Devi v.
Bhaba Kanti Das, 1977 ACJ 293. Second, the ITDC submits, drawing
from Syed Basheer Ahmed v Mohammed Jameel , (2009) 2 SCC 225,
that the claimants to compensation must show data to establish a
reasonable nexus between the loss incurred by them and the
compensation prayed for. The onus lies on the claimant to prove
earnings lost by leading reliable and cogent evidence and mere
assertions in the plaint are insufficient to discharge this onus. The
compensation should be fair and reasonable by accepted legal
standards. The appellant also draws support from Gobald Motor
Service Ltd. v. RMK Veluswami , AIR 1962 SC 1 to argue that the
Court must balance the pecuniary loss to the aggrieved party against
the pecuniary advantage that accrues to them consequent to the injury. 89. Once the existence of liability for the tort of negligence is
established, the extent of liability i.e. whether a particular damage is
recoverable is to be decided. Damages to be recoverable, should not
be remote. The test to determine remoteness of damage, especially

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 69
 when the question is one of unintended consequences of a wrongful
act, was established in Overseas Tankship Ltd. v. Morts Dock and
Engineering Co. Ltd., "The Wagon Mound" case, [1961] A.C. 388. It
was held that damage is not too remote if it was a reasonably
foreseeable consequence of the negligent act. The Wagon Mound in
holding thus, overruled the test laid down in in Re Polemis. [1964] 2
QB 292 for determining remoteness of damage i.e. whether the
damage was a direct or natural consequence of the negligent act, so as
to avoid the "never-ending and insoluble problems of causation". In
doing so, Wagon Mound also effectively renders the tests for existence
of liability and extent of liability the same. (See McGregor on
Damages, 4-002 - 4-007). 90. In Hughes v. Lord Advocate, [1963] A.C. 837, 858 the
distinction between degree of damage and kind of damage was
enunciated. It was observed that if a type or kind of damage is a
reasonably foreseeable consequence of a negligent act, then the
defendant is liable for that type of damage to whatever degree it
occurs. Thus, the defendant is liable to make good any damage even if
the degree of damage is more than is anticipated or foreseen by the
defendant, so long as the kind of damage is foreseeable. These
principles have been assimilated by Indian Courts (Ref Rajkot
Municipality, [supra] and Jai Bhagwan v Laxman Singh 1994 (5) SCC 5). 91. This Court is not persuaded by ITDC's argument that this
incident falls within the category of "accidents" by virtue of being an
unintended and unexpected event whose cause was unknown. The fact

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 70
 that the cause was unknown is irrelevant since extent of liability does
not depend on causation after Wagon Mound. The requirement to
establish extent of liability is the reasonable foreseeability of a type of
damage, regardless of degree of damage. This Court is of the opinion
that the type of damage i.e. feet slipping forwards and falling
backwards to hit one's head against the wall of the pool, when one
jumps into a pool, is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the floor
of the pool being slippery, either on account of algal growth or due to
use of slippery tiles- a conclusion that could have been countered or
dispelled by material that was, and should have been within the
exclusive control of ITDC. This being the case, ITDC cannot contest
the foreseeability of the damage on the ground that the respondent
suffered a fracture of the C6 and C7, and consequent paralysis by
quadriplegia. This is because ITDC is responsible for damage even at
a degree that was not anticipated by it, so long as the type of damage
was reasonably foreseeable. 92. As regards computation of damages, this Court is in agreement
with the ITDC's submission that the claim for medical expenses
incurred must be based on evidence adduced before the Court. The
burden to establish the quantum of damages lies on the claimant. This
flows from Section 101 of the Indian Evidence Act and Syed Basheer
Ahmed v Mohammed Jameel , (2009) 2 SCC 225. 93. Pecuniary damages awarded for medical expenses must thus be
restricted to only those amounts which can be proved by the
plaintiff/respondent in evidence. From the bills and receipts provided
by Susan, the Learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court found

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 71
 that the medical expenses incurred were of the amount $5513.80 in
Australian Dollars and ₹ 74249.05 in Indian Rupees. Susan's father,
PW2, Mr. GL Beer however, had in his testimony stated that he has in
fact incurred about AUD 1,50,000 as medical expenses for her care
after the onset of quadriplegia. Since the plaintiff was unable to
adduce bills to show for these expenses, this Court is of the opinion
that only those expenses for which bills have been produced may be
used in computation of damages under the head of "medical
expenses". 94. However, the Court is of the opinion that the Learned Single
Judge erred in converting the pecuniary damages (both under medical
expenses and lost earnings) using the exchange rate as prevalent in
1982 i.e. 1 AUD = 9 INR. 95. The allied questions of a) the appropriate currency to award
damages in when the claimant incurred expenses or suffered losses in
a foreign currency and b) the appropriate date for conversion of a
decretal sum from a foreign currency to the Indian Rupee was
answered in Forasol v. ONGC, 1984 Supp (1) SCC 263. The Court,
drawing from several English cases on breach of contract and from
Owners of M.V. Eleftherotria v. Owners of M.V. Despina, L.R.[1979]
A.C. 685 on tortious liability (which was also relied upon by the
Counsel for respondents) noted that the reasoning in common law was
that: The Court held that this principle cannot be applied directly in India,
since no Court can order a party to do anything contrary to the law on
foreign exchange, and that there was a likelihood that the defendant
may not receive requisite permissions from the foreign exchange
authorities to make a payment in foreign currency. To account for this
contingency, the Court held that the decree must provide in the
alternative, for payment of a sum of money in Indian Rupees
equivalent to the decretal amount in the foreign currency. 96. At this juncture, the Court was also required to answer the
question of the appropriate date for fixing the exchange rate for
converting the foreign currency amount into Indian rupees. The Court
(paragraphs 22-53) considered five possible dates for fixing the
exchange rate at which the foreign currency amount has to be
converted: 97. The fourth date i.e. date on which execution is ordered was
ruled out by the Court as considerable time would elapse between the
date on which execution is ordered by the court and the date of final
realization of payment, as the process of execution entails attachment
of the judgment debtor's property, possible third party claims to the
attached property, and compliance with Order XXI, Rule 68 of the
Civil Procedure Code etc. This period would be susceptible to
fluctuations in exchange rate. Moreover, execution can only be
ordered for a specific sum that constitutes the judgment debt. Thus, it
would be impossible for the court to order execution of a decree for a
sum that is to be ascertained by the executing court. 98. The fifth date i.e. date of realization of payment albeit
seemingly most fair and just was also ruled out by the Court because
suit valuation for court fees cannot be undertaken with reference to a
future possible exchange rate. Similarly, an assessment of the
pecuniary limit of jurisdiction of courts cannot be undertaken in a
money suit in which the amount claimed is in a foreign currency.
Moreover, execution of decree cannot be ordered for a sum that is to
be ascertainable as due upon the decree by the executing court as of
the date of payment. 99. The Court then considered the first, second and third dates i.e.
date of cause of action, date of institution of suit and date of decree. It
noted that the duration between these dates and the date of decree or
final disposal/final realization of payment would be susceptible to
fluctuations in the exchange rate. Should the exchange rate fluctuate to
the plaintiff's prejudice, then the plaintiff will not be put in the same

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 74
 position as he would have been prior to the defendant's breach of duty
owed to him, in keeping with the principle restitutio in integrum. This
possibility would be aggravated by the duration of litigation in India
owing to overcrowded dockets in courts and consequent protraction of
litigation. However, given that neither that the fourth and fifth dates
i.e. date of execution nor the date of realization of payment can be
used to fix the exchange rate, the Court held that the principle of
restitutio in integrum would be best served by the latest of the dates
between date of cause of action, date of institution of suit, and the date
of decree. Thus, the position of law as it stands today is that the date
of final disposal of the suit (which is to be considered the date of
decree, per paragraph 43 of Forasol) i.e. the date of judgment and
decree would be the date on which the exchange rate must be fixed for
conversion of the foreign currency decretal sum to Indian rupees. 100. This Court is mindful of the position in United India Insurance
Co. Ltd. v. Patricia Jean Mahajan and Ors. , (2002) 6 SCC 281 at
para 38, in which the Court considered the position in ONGC (supra)
and distinguished it on the grounds that although the deceased was an
American citizen settled in the United States, and thus had adduced
proof of earnings in American Dollars, the prayer was for a sum in
Indian Rupees which figure the claimant had arrived at by employing
the exchange rate of 1 USD = 30 INR. The Motor Accident Claims
Tribunal had granted compensation using the exchange rate employed
by the claimant. The Single Judge on appeal used the prevalent
exchange rate of 1 USD = 47 INR, but the Division Bench set aside
this finding and restored the rate to 1 USD = 30 INR on the ground

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 75
 that the compensation amount had already been withdrawn. Thus, the
Court found that it would not be permissible for the claimants to claim
that the then prevalent rate of ₹47 was applicable. Thus, the Court held
that given the prayer, the Court was right in awarding a compensation
amount on the terms on which the prayer was claimed i.e. at ₹ 30.
The Court further held: 101. This Court is in agreement that the respondents cannot claim an
amount greater than prayed for in the plaint. However, in deference to
this requirement, the principle of restitutio in integrum cannot be
compromised. In order to restore Susan to the position she was in prior
to the injury, it is imperative to grant her damages to an amount that is
equivalent to the amount spent on medical expenses/lost earnings in
her currency. If an amount is granted in Indian Rupees that is not
equivalent to the amount she spent in Australian Dollars in the present
day in the Australian economy, then the respondent will be denied her
right to restitution in monetary terms. In order to reconcile these two
requirements, this Court is of the opinion that the exchange rate
prevalent as of the date of disposal of this appeal should be the date
applicable for conversion of the sums in Australian Dollars to Indian

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 76
 Rupees. This amount must, at the same time, be circumscribed by the
amount claimed in the claim petition. 88.Thus, the amount for medical expenses incurred: history/AUD-INR/2011 on 27-05-2014 at 10:40 PM). 102. For loss of earnings, since the respondent was a minor and thus
still completing her education when she was injured, this Court must
rely upon the depositions of the Plaintiff. The Learned Single Judge
found that Susan could only commence employment at age 26 years,
while the ordinary age of employment was 21 years, and that she
could only work till the age of 45 years after her handicap, while
ordinarily, one can work till the age of 65 years. After her handicap,
she was able to earn $30,000 per annum, whereas ordinarily, the
respondent could have earned on average, $45,000. Using these
figures, the Learned Single Judge found that the loss of earnings
would be: 103. However, since the Plaintiff cannot be granted damages in
excess of the amount claimed in the suit, this Court is of the opinion
that the full amount claimed in the plaint may be awarded as damages
in respect of the claimant's loss of earnings resulting from the injury,
i.e. ₹ 1,30,00,000/-. 104. On the question of non-pecuniary damages for pain and
suffering, as well as loss of amenities - discretion is to be exercised by
the Court, as there is no constant principle followed by Indian courts,
which are guided by principles of justice, equity and fairness. The
exercise of such discretion is mainly fact dependent. ( Ref K Suresh v.
New India Assurance Co. 2012 (12) SCC 274 and Nizam Institute of
Medical Sciences (supra). On this ground, this Court upholds the non-
pecuniary damages granted by the Learned Single Judge i.e. ₹
50,00,000/- 105. As far as the submission of ITDC that the general method for
computation of pecuniary loss is "by balancing on the one hand the
loss to the claimants of the future pecuniary benefit and on the other
any pecuniary advantage which from whatever source comes to them
by reason of the death" (as held Gobald Motor Service Ltd. v. R.M.K.

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 78
 Veluswami, AIR 1962 SC 1, para 17), this Court is of the opinion that
this principle operates in a different context. As evident from Gobald
and all the English cases relied upon by that Court, this principle has
so far been applied in cases of fatal accidents by motor vehicles, in
which the family/dependents of the deceased claim compensation for
the death of the deceased. The benefit accruing that must be balanced
against the losses resulting from death is a reference to the interests in
the estate of the deceased person that accrues to the dependents as
heirs. (Ref Paragraphss 11-16 of Gobald). This principle clearly
centers on the link between the advantage ensuing to the claimant and
the injury or death i.e. only those benefits that result as a specific
consequence of the death or the injury can be benefits deductible from
the pecuniary damages awarded. Benefits that would have resulted
regardless of the death or injury would not be deductible from the
pecuniary damages. This link was enunciated in Patricia Jean (supra),
in which the Supreme Court cited Hodgson v. Trapp, [1988] 3 All ER
870, p. 873: The Court proceeded to hold that: [emphasis supplied] 106. This Court is thus of the opinion that insurance and pension and
like benefits that may accrue to the respondent, regardless of her
injury, are not deductible from the pecuniary damages awarded herein.
As regards the medical aids and equipment provided by the
Queensland Department of Health, it is clear from PW 18/1 and PW
18/2 that the Department would seek a reimbursement of the costs it

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 80
 has incurred, should this claim for damages be successful. This matter
is to be resolved between Susan and her home Government. Point No.: 5 Did the finding as to the interest rate by the Learned
 Single Judge call for interference 107. On this aspect, the plaintiff in her cross-objections claimed that
a rate of interest of 18% be awarded on the damages awarded from the
date of filing of the suit till the date of realization. It was argued that
ITDC is engaged in delaying tactics and protracted the litigation for
over 30 years, while she pursued the litigation diligently. It was also
argued that ITDC will have to convert the granted damages from INR
to AUD after the appeal is disposed of, whereas the exchange rate
used in computation of the damages was the prevailing rate in 1982 (1
AUD = 9 INR) and lastly, the damages and interest awarded would
not cover the loss suffered by Susan. 108. The learned single judge had granted simple interest at 6% per
annum, on the decreed amount. The award of interest is discretionary
and usually would not call for interference. Yet, this court is
constrained to observe that the learned single judge seems to have not
given much importance to the 29 years pendency of the case, and the
intervening events which saw interest rates, which were more or less
stable during the decade 1980-1990, fluctuate at varying levels. The
Court, in these circumstances, should perform some averaging attempt
to arrive at what could be the most reasonable mean interest rate,
which would sub-serve the ends of justice. The Reserve Bank of
India's website

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 81
 (http://www.rbi.org.in/scripts/PublicationsView.aspx?id=12765
visited on 27-05-2014 at 09:35) contains a table (No.74) indicating
fixed deposit rates of various banks from the year 1971-72 onwards. In
the present case, the suit was filed in 1982; it was decreed in 2011.
The proceedings were pending on the file of the court for 29 years.
The average interest rate for fixed deposits, notified by the RBI for the
years 1982-83 to 2010-11 (29 years) works out to 9.17% p.a. This
Court is thus of opinion that the rate of interest of 9.17% should be
applied in this case, in substitution of 6% p.a pendente lite interest
awarded by the learned single judge. Conclusion and Directions 109. The appeal, as is evident from the above discussion, is bereft of
merit. This Court is constrained to observe that the pendancy of the
suit was largely due to the stand of ITDC in carrying out a long and
protracted exercise of recording the deposition of witnesses. One
wonders about the objective behind the groundless objections and the
almost surrealistic nature of questioning resorted on behalf of ITDC.
The attempts to prove that plaintiff was a liar despite clear and
convincing answers from her end, shows a stubborn desire to
somehow wrest arguing points for the final hearing. The transcript of
oral depositions - a reading of which was at once revealing and
disconcerting, highlighted the futility of the process in this case. The
line of questioning also showed ITDC in a poor light as callous and
insensitive. That it is a public sector organization only aggravates the
disregard for the suffering undergone by the plaintiff. RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 82 110. In the light of the above discussion, it is held that the findings of
the Learned Single Judge do not call for interference on the question
of liability of ITDC and its breach of duty of care. The findings
recorded in the previous portions of the judgment with regard to the
award on medical expenses incurred mean that the decree has to be
modified; instead of ₹ 5,00,000/- awarded by the impugned judgment
and decree, the correct sum, i.e ₹ 3, 24,906.39/- shall stand substituted.
Likewise, the decree in respect of the head "loss of earnings" shall be
substituted - instead of ₹ 1,27,00,000/- the sum on account of loss of
earnings for the rest of the plaintiff's life shall be substituted by ₹
1,30,00,000/- (Rupees one crore and thirty lakhs). The damages
awarded shall thus be: 111. The appeal is dismissed and the cross objections are allowed, to
the extent indicated above. S. RAVINDRA BHAT
 (JUDGE)

 SUDERSHAN KUMAR MISRA
 (JUDGE)

MAY 30, 2014

RFA(OS)75/2011 Page 84