The plaintiff has filed the above petition under Section

34 of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996, (hereinafter

called as 'the Act') for setting aside the Arbitration Award,

dated 27th October 2020 in Appeal AM No.NSEBEN/01345/

2019-20/ISC/IGRP/ARB/APPL and consequential setting 3 Com.A.P 02/2021

aside the award, dated 2nd December 2020 passed by the

Sole Arbitrator in the matter bearing No. Appeal AM No.

NSEBEN/01345/2019-20/ISC/IGRP/ARB, order dated 28 th

January 2020 on the files of the Appellate Arbitrators panel

constituted under the bye-laws rules and regulations of the

National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., by allowing the

claim of the plaintiff. 2. The brief facts of the case of the plaintiff are as

hereunder:- 3. Being aggrieved by the said impugned orders,

dated 12th July 2019, 2nd December 2019 and 27th October

2020, the present petition is filed on the grounds that the

award passed by the Sole Arbitrator and Appellate 6 Com.A.P 02/2021

Authority are against all canons of law and liable to be set

aside. The award passed by Sole Arbitrator and Appellate

Authority are without application of mind and

consequently, the same are liable to be set aside. The Sole

Arbitrator and Appellate Authority have erred in not

examining the evidence on record to prove that the trades

were authorised in the absence of pre trade confirmation

call recording before passing the impugned awards and the

Appellate Authority erred in insisting on pre trade

confirmation calls despite being brought to their notice that

the pre trade confirmation calls were not available for all

the trades, but in the alternate the defendant had

approved for trade in its subsequent conversation with the

officials of the applicant. The Sole Arbitrators and

Appellate Authorities erred by ignoring the alternate

evidence produced by the plaintiff to prove their case. The

Sole Arbitrators erred in partially reading the regulations,

which stipulates alternate evidence to ascertain

unauthorised trade in the absence of the pre trade 7 Com.A.P 02/2021

confirmation call. Further, the Arbitrators erred in ignoring

the fact that trade confirmations message sent through

SMS log, confirmation taken from the defendant through

voice recording and through e-mail log, delivery report and

admission of defendant of having received the same. The

Arbitrators have over looked the same. The Arbitrators

failed to appreciate the fact that the trades which were

executed would immediately reflect on the online portal.

Even after the alleged disputed trades, the defendant had

logged on to the online portal, wherein, the disputed trades

were reflected. The defendant, who had knowledge about

the trades, never disputed the same. The defendant did the

online trades by using user ID and password through

online portal and learned Arbitrators have not considered

the alternative method of adducing evidence and also the

regulation Nos.3, 4, 6 of SEBI. The arbitrators have erred in

interpreting SEBI circular and bye-laws. Though, the

plaintiff has produced the internet transaction showing the

defendant logged into system and the same was not 8 Com.A.P 02/2021

considered by the Arbitrators. The award of

Rs.64,58,138/- in favour of the defendant is incorrect and

without any basis. Accordingly, he has prayed for setting

aside the award passed by the Arbitral Tribunal and

Appellate Arbitral Tribunal and also by the Sole Arbitrator.

Accordingly, it has prayed for allowing the application. 4. The defendant has filed objection statement

denying the each and every allegation made in the petition,

except raising complaint before the petitioner company,

their inaction, then, referring the matter to the decision of

the IGRP, filing Appeal before the Arbitral Tribunal and the

decision of the Appellate Arbitral Tribunal directing the

petitioner to pay a sum of Rs.64,58,138/-. He has denied

that there are other mode of confirmation by the parties

and in case of trading through Online the pre consent is

necessary and recording of voice through telephone is also

necessary as per the guidelines issued by the SEBI, from

time to time. Further, in the case on hand, though, the

complaint was brought to the notice of NSE, within a 9 Com.A.P 02/2021

reasonable time, no effective steps were taken and

thereafter, it was referred to internal redressall panel,

which took the complaint and decided the same by

directing the petitioner to pay a sum of Rs.64,58,138/-. In

fact, during the period from 4 th February 2019 till 22nd

March 2019, there were about 30 transactions and out of

which, 7 transactions were found with pre recording voice

messages. Therefore, IGRP decided the claim only in

respect of 23 transactions made by the petitioner, alleging

that same has not been confirmed by the respondent. It is

further stated that it is not the case of the petitioner that

the matter is not capable of settlement by arbitration or

invoking the provision of Arbitration Act and it was not

further case of the petitioner that there was no transaction

taken place between relevant time, but, the contention that

23 transactions were confirmed by the respondent by his

conduct by keeping quiet and even on earlier occasion also

when the trade has happened, the respondent kept quiet,

thereby accepted the transactions and therefore, the 10 Com.A.P 02/2021

disputed transactions were also accepted by the petitioner,

etc. is highly incorrect. Further, the circular issued by the

SEBI from time to time which is very important and which

stipulates what should be done and what should not be

done by a stock broker when dealing with its client relating

to trade. Since, three forums have already decided in

favour of the respondent, there is no question of setting

aside the Award under Section 34 , as scope is very limited

and the petitioner has failed to bring the case within the

grounds available under Section 34 of the Act, regarding

that the award is opposed to public policy, the award has

been passed by ignoring the terms of the contract or there

is patent illegality, etc. So, in view of the above fact,

further, this Court not being an Appellate Court cannot

interpret the views expressed by the Arbitrators or the

Appellate Tribunal and this Court has no power to interpret

the documents, which were relied upon by learned

Arbitrators as well as the Appellate Tribunal. Accordingly,

he has prayed for dismissal of the case. Com.A.P 02/2021 5. Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and

respondent. 6. Now, the points that arise for my consideration
are:- 7. My findings on the above Points are as under: 8. POINT No.1: Learned counsel for the petitioner

would argue that the respondent only after suffering loss,

the claim has been made belatedly that itself indicates that 12 Com.A.P 02/2021

he has accepted the transactions relating to 30 trades,

which were under dispute and the respondent had claimed

a sum of Rs.99,25,914/- as a counter claim, besides, order

passed by the IGRP, which has been confirmed up to

Arbitral Tribunal constituted under the bye-laws of SEBI.

The claim of the respondent is illegal and the IGRP, Arbitral

Tribunal and Appellate Arbitral Tribunal have

misinterpreted the guidelines issued by the SEBI as there

were mode of confirmation and the said regard, he took the

Court to ink page No.22 of the file, which is the IGRP

proceedings relating to complaint lodged by the respondent,

wherein, it is specifically stated about claim of the

respondent and the objection filed by the petitioner herein

and also findings given by the IGRP. He refers to the

complaint lodged to the Relationship Manager of petitioner

and when the respondent did not get any result, he put a

review in MouthShut.com, which prompted the officials of

the petitioner to negotiate the things and thereafter, they

did not take any action and accordingly, the complaint 13 Com.A.P 02/2021

came to be lodged and it was referred to the IGRP. It is

further stated in the objection filed before the IGRP that the

respondent has been transferring funds by using Online

platform of the petitioner right from 8.2.2019, 14.3.2019,

27.3.2019, 14.5.2019 and 23.5.2019 and therefore, when

he had no grievance about earlier transaction, just

because, there is no proof regarding voice record relating to

23 transactions, it does not mean that they were not

authorized. Thereafter, he refers to the findings of IGRP and

they found that 23 transactions were without any pre

consent or post confirmation and therefore, the petitioner

is liable to pay the amount. Accordingly, order came to be

passed. The main grievance of the petitioner is that, IGRP

should complete the proceedings and not supposed to pass

an award, which is against the bye-laws. Thereafter, he

referred to the award of the Arbitral Tribunal, dated 2 nd

December 2019, headed by Justice, N. Kumar as presiding

Arbitrator, the Arbitral Tribunal upheld the IGRP

proceedings and passed an order to the tune of 14 Com.A.P 02/2021

Rs.64,58,138/-. He refers to page No.2 of the said award,

wherein, it is stated that the main reason for awarding

payment of money is that, the petitioner had not obtained

pre consent for 23 transactions, which is erroneous by

ignoring other guidelines issued by the SEBI. Thereafter,

he refers to the para (i), which also discloses about the case

of the petitioner and the respondent, who was dealing not

only in the capital market segment, but also in future and

option segment. When the respondent has used the Online

platform and has been conducting business, then, we

cannot expect that the 23 transactions were without pre

consent. Learned Arbitrators have referred to the clause

No.3.4 and 3.2 of regulation, which provides for a trading

member shall ensure that appropriate confirmed order,

instructions are obtained from the constituting before

placement of an order on the NEAT system and shall keep

relevant records or documents. The capital market

segment at clause No.3.2 of regulation provides that

keeping relevant records and there is reference about 15 Com.A.P 02/2021

circular issued by the SEBI wherein, it provides for

maintaining physical record written and signed by the

client, telephone recording, e-mail from authorised e-mail

id., log for internet transactions, record of SMS messages

through mobile phones, or any other legally verifiable

record. When the petitioner has informed about the trade

to the authorised e-mail id of the respondent, the Arbitral

Tribunal or the Appellate Arbitral Tribunal ought to have

taken into consideration and non-consideration of the same

amounts to against the public policy and therefore, it is

liable to be set aside. After referring to the Arbitral award,

he would argue that the claim of the respondent is time

barred and ought to have been complained within 24 hours

of the loss sustained or the transaction happened and

inaction on the part of the respondent in initiating the

complaint, goes to show that nothing has happened and it

is an attempt made by him to gain unlawfully. 9. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent,

would argue that the petitioner has not made out any 16 Com.A.P 02/2021

grounds available under Section 34 of the Act. When it is

admitted that the respondent is a client under the

petitioner and invested huge money and for every

transaction, there must be proof to be maintained by the

petitioner and just because, there is allegation that the

trade has been intimated to the respondent by way of e-

mail and inaction on the part of the respondent, keeping

quiet, even after the alleged loss would go to show that

same has been confirmed and was acquiesced by him, etc.,

cannot be considered for the reason that the respondent

can confirm the same after the transaction or accepting the

mail by replying and consenting for the same or trade of

shares and whatever done must be with pre consent. Pre

consent mode plays main role when there is complaint that

30 transactions have been made without pre consent, and

after enquiry and production of voice recordings, there

remains 23 transactions/trades made without voice

recording, which goes against the petitioner. The petitioner

must be in a position to show what happened to the share 17 Com.A.P 02/2021

or amount in the account of the respondent, when it has

maintained account relating to the trade in respect of the

respondent. Therefore, all the 3 forums have categorically

found the irregularities committed by the petitioner, which

is a reputed stock broker and the documents produced

along with the counter claim before the Arbitral Tribunal

and Appellate Arbitral Tribunal would go to show that the

statement of transactions confirmed by the respondent and

denied by him, complaint lodged before the petitioner,

inaction on the part of the petitioner, thereafter, referring to

the SEBI and exchange of WhatsApp messages, would go to

show that as soon as, the loss sustained by the respondent,

he has intimated and called the officials of the petitioner at

Bangalore, but, they tried to convince and pacify, but

failed to give answer to the respondent. The list of disputed

transactions also given along with various e-mails sent to

National Stock Exchange of India, branch at Bengaluru.

The petition submitted by the petitioner to the said

National Stock Exchange of India, complaint given by the 18 Com.A.P 02/2021

respondent and IGRP proceedings etc. It is not the case of

the petitioner that the respondent won over the three

forums to obtained the awards. 10. Now, coming to the SEBI circular, regarding

prevention of un-authorised trading by stock brokers, dated

26th September 2017, clearly mandates to maintain

physical record written and signed by the client, telephone

recording, e-mail from authorised email id, log for internet

transactions, record of SMS messages or any other legally

verifiable record. Just because, the respondent kept quiet

regarding some of the transactions made without consent,

it does not mean that he has consented for disputed

transactions. It is mandatory duty on the part of the stock

broker to intimate the client about transaction and get

confirmation by voice message or telephonic conversation,

so that the faith will be there in the business by the

general public after finding out many such scams, circulars

have been issued from time to time. Therefore, the

contention of the petitioner that the IGRP, Arbitral Tribunal 19 Com.A.P 02/2021

and Appellate Arbitral Tribunal have not considered the

documents regarding e-mail confirmation, etc., cannot be

considered, as this Court cannot deal with or distinguish

the documents in the light of the orders passed by three

forums. 11. It is settled law that the Court deciding the

application under Section 34 of the Act, does not sit in

appeal over the award as an appellate Court and there is no

question of re-appreciation. Further, the Court acting

under Section 34 of the Act cannot substitute its view in

the place of view expressed by the Arbitral Tribunal or

Appellate Arbitral Tribunal as the case may be, as the

scope is very limited. The documents produced by the

petitioner and respondent along with counter claim, go to

show that the petitioner has failed to communicate the

same before trading of shares, which found to be irregular

by the three forums. Therefore, this Court cannot interfere

with the findings of the three forums. Com.A.P 02/2021 12. When an Award can be set aside is stated in Sec.

34 of the Act, if it is against the public policy of India or

against the terms of the contract or non-consideration of

material documents or the decision laid down by the Apex

Court or substantive law, which amounts to patently

illegal. It is not the case of the petitioner that the dispute is

not arbitrable and there is no scope for decision by the

IGRP or other two forums. Learned Arbitrators of the

Arbitral Tribunal and the Appellate Arbitral Tribunal have

considered all these aspects and also documents produced

before them and have come to a definite conclusion about

the trade done by the petitioner in violation of the

guidelines issued by the SEBI. So, in view of the above fact,

I do not find any merits in the case. In this regard, the

decision in the case of M/s Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt.

Ltd., Vs. Mr. Tilak Bachar , reported in 2019 SCC Online

Calcutta 628, wherein, a similar question was arose before

the Hon'ble High Court of Calcutta and after hearing the

authorities, up held the award passed by the sole arbitrator 21 Com.A.P 02/2021

and directed the stock broker to pay the loss sustained by

the client. So, keeping in mind, the decision in the above

case and fact that the petitioner has failed to bring the case

within Sec. 34 of the Act, I am of the view that there are

no grounds to set aside the award. Accordingly, I answer

point No.1 in the negative. 13. Point No.2: For the above said reasons, I proceed

to pass the following. ORDER

 The petition filed by the plaintiff under Section 34 of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act,

 1996, is hereby dismissed. No costs. (Dictated to the Stenographer, typed by him,
 corrected and then pronounced by me in open Court
 on this the 3rd day of January, 2022). (CHANDRASHEKHAR U),
 LXXXVII Addl.City Civil & Sessions Judge,
 (Exclusive dedicated commercial Court)
 Bengaluru. sk
 22

 Com.A.P 02/2021