The petitioner has filed the present petition for

 quashing of FIR No. 64 of 2023, dated 31.3.2023, registered at

 Police Station Theog, District Shimla, H.P., for the commission of 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2026:HHC:6246

 an offence punishable under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code

 ( IPC ). . 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

 petition are that the respondent No.3/informant was running a

 business of sale and purchase of apples at Parala, Sabji Mandi,

 of
 Tehsil Theog. SFC Karnatka, PSP Puducherry, FF Shaik Sadik

 Tirupati, YNC Noshad (V) Warangal and EFC Najmal Kerala had
 rt
 purchased apples from him, but had not paid him the money. They cheated the informant and deprived him of an amount of

 ₹2,54,83,017/-. Hence, the informant filed a complaint before the

 police, praying that an action be taken against the merchants as

 per the law. The police registered the FIR and investigated the

 matter. 3. Being aggrieved by the registration of the FIR, the

 accused/petitioner has filed the present petition seeking the

 quashing of the FIR. It has been asserted that the contents of the

 FIR do not satisfy the requirement Section 420 of the IPC. There

 was a delay in reporting the matter to the police. The allegations

 in the FIR, even if accepted to be correct discloses a civil dispute

 related to the business transaction, and there is no criminality ::: Downloaded on - 09/03/2026 20:33:44 :::CIS 3 2026:HHC:6246

 involved in the present case. A mere breach of contract or non- payment of dues does not amount to cheating. Therefore, it was

 . prayed that the present petition be allowed and the FIR be

 quashed qua the petitioner. 4. The petition is opposed by respondents No.1 and 2 by

 of
 filing a reply making preliminary submissions regarding the lack

 of maintainability and locus standi. The contents of the petition
 rt
 were admitted regarding the filing of the FIR. It was asserted that

 the petitioner had been absconding since 2019 and had not paid

 an amount of ₹1,04,28,946/- to the informant. The allegations in

 the FIR disclose the commission of a cognizable offence. The

 investigation is complete, and the charge sheet is to be filed

 against the petitioner. It was specifically denied that the dispute

 between the parties pertained to a commercial dispute and did

 not involve any criminality. Hence, it was prayed that the present

 petition be dismissed. 5. A separate reply was filed by respondent

 No.3/informant admitting that an FIR was registered by

 respondent No.3/informant against the petitioner and other apple

 traders. It was asserted that the apple traders had defaulted in ::: Downloaded on - 09/03/2026 20:33:44 :::CIS 4 2026:HHC:6246

 paying the money to the informant, and he was left with no other

 option but to register the FIR. The petitioner remained absconded

 . for 2 years and did not join the investigation. Therefore, it was

 prayed that the present petition be dismissed. 6. I have heard Mr S.C. Sharma, learned Senior Advocate

 of
 with M/s Jyotirmay Bhatt and Sushmit Bhatt, learned counsel for

 the petitioner, Mr Ajit Sharma, learned Deputy Advocate General
 rt
 for respondents No.1 and 2, and Mr Narender Singh Thakur,

 learned counsel, for respondent No.3. 7. Mr S.C. Sharma, learned Senior Counsel for the

 petitioner, submitted that the allegations in the FIR do not

 disclose the commission of any offence. False allegations were

 made against him. The contents of the FIR, even if accepted to be

 correct, do not constitute the commission of any cognizable

 offence. Therefore, he prayed that the present petition be allowed

 and the FIR be quashed. He relied upon the judgments of Kunti

 and another vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and another (2023) 6 SCC 109,

 Sarabjit Kaur vs. State of Punjab and another 2023 STPL 3358 SC,

 Rikhab Birani and Anr versus State of Uttar Pradesh and Anr 2025

 INSC 512 in support of his submission. 2026:HHC:6246 8. Mr Ajit Sharma, learned Deputy Advocate General for

 the respondents No.1 and 2/State submitted that the petitioner

 . had taken the apples from the informant after promising to pay

 the money to him. However, he failed to do so, which shows that

 his intention was fraudulent to begin with. The investigation is

 complete, and the charge sheet is to be filed before this Court. of
 This Court should not exercise the extraordinary jurisdiction

 vested in it under Section 528 of BNSS. Hence, he prayed that the
 rt
 present petition be dismissed. 9. Mr Narender Singh Thakur, learned counsel for

 respondent No.3, adopted the submissions of Mr Ajit Sharma,

 learned Deputy Advocate General for respondents No.1 and 2 and

 prayed that the present petition be dismissed. 10. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

 made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 11. The law relating to quashing of FIR was explained by

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in B.N. John v. State of U.P. , 2025 SCC

 OnLine SC 7 as under: - 2026:HHC:6246

 (4) Where the allegations in the FIR do not constitute
 a cognizable offence but constitute only a non-
 cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a

 . police officer without an order of a Magistrate as

 contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code.
 (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or
 complaint are so absurd and inherently

 improbable based on which no prudent person
 can ever reach a just conclusion that there is
 sufficient ground for proceeding against the

 of
 accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in
 rt any of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act
 (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to
 the institution and continuance of the proceedings,
 and/or where there is a specific provision in the Code

 or the concerned Act, providing efficacious redress for
 the grievance of the aggrieved party.
 (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly

 attended with mala fide and/or where the
 proceeding is maliciously instituted with an
 ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the

 accused and with a view to spite him due to a
 private and personal grudge." (emphasis added) 8. Of the aforesaid criteria, clause no. (1), (4), and (6)
 would be of relevance to us in this case. In clause (1), it has been mentioned that where the
 allegations made in the first information report or the
 complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and
 accepted in their entirety, do not prima facie constitute any
 offence or make out a case against the accused, then the
 FIR or the complaint can be quashed. As per clause (4), where the allegations in the FIR do not
 constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only a non-
 cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a
 police officer without an order dated by the Magistrate as ::: Downloaded on - 09/03/2026 20:33:44 :::CIS 8 2026:HHC:6246

 contemplated under Section 155 (2) of the CrPC, and in
 such a situation, the FIR can be quashed.
 Similarly, as provided under clause (6), if there is an

 . express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of the CrPC or the concerned Act under which the criminal
 proceedings are instituted, such proceedings can be
 quashed." 12. This position was reiterated in Ajay Malik v. State of

 Uttarakhand , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 185, wherein it was observed: The conditions for invoking such powers are embedded

 within Section 482 of the CrPC itself, allowing the High
 Court to act only in cases of clear abuse of process or where
 intervention is essential to uphold the ends of justice. 9. It is in this backdrop that this Court, over the course of
 several decades, has laid down the principles and

 guidelines that High Courts must follow before quashing
 criminal proceedings at the threshold, thereby pre- empting the Prosecution from building its case before the
 Trial Court. The grounds for quashing, inter alia,
 contemplate the following situations : (i) the criminal
 complaint has been filed with mala fides; (ii) the FIR
 represents an abuse of the legal process; (iii) no prima facie
 offence is made out; (iv) the dispute is civil in nature; (v.)
 the complaint contains vague and omnibus allegations;
 and (vi) the parties are willing to settle and compound the
 dispute amicably ( State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal , 1992 Supp
 (1) SCC 335) ::: Downloaded on - 09/03/2026 20:33:44 :::CIS 9 2026:HHC:6246 13. The present petition is to be decided as per the

 parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. . 14. The FIR was registered for the commission of an

 offence punishable under Section 420 of the IPC. The ingredients

 of cheating were explained by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in S.W.

 of
 Palanitkar v. State of Bihar , (2002) 1 SCC 241, as under: "15. In determining the question, it has to be kept in
 mind that the distinction between mere breach of
 contract and the offence of cheating is a fine one. It
 depends upon the intention of the accused at the
 time of inducement, which may be judged by his
 subsequent conduct, but for this, subsequent
 conduct is not the sole test. Mere breach of contract
 cannot give rise to criminal prosecution for cheating
 unless fraudulent or dishonest intention is shown
 right at the beginning of the transaction, that is, the ::: Downloaded on - 09/03/2026 20:33:44 :::CIS 10 2026:HHC:6246

 time when the offence is said to have been
 committed. Therefore, it is the intention which is the
 gist of the offence. To hold a person guilty of cheating,

 . it is necessary to show that he had a fraudulent or

 dishonest intention at the time of making the promise.
 From his mere failure to keep up a promise,
 subsequently, such a culpable intention right at the

 beginning, that is, when he made the promise, cannot be
 presumed." (emphasis supplied)

 of 12. Finding that the ingredients of the offence of cheating
 and its allied offences had not been made out, this Court
 interfered with the order of the High Court and quashed
 the criminal proceedings. rt 13. In G.V. Rao v. L.H.V. Prasad [(2000) 3 SCC 693: 2000 SCC
 (Cri) 733], this Court in para 7 has stated thus: (SCC pp. 696-97)

 "7. As mentioned above, Section 415 has two parts.
 While in the first part, the person must 'dishonestly'

 or 'fraudulently' induce the complainant to deliver
 any property; in the second part, the person should
 intentionally induce the complainant to do or omit to

 do a thing. That is to say, in the first part,
 inducement must be dishonest or fraudulent. In the

 second part, the inducement should be intentional. As observed by this Court in

 JaswantraiManilalAkhaney v. State of Bombay [AIR
 1956 SC 575: 1956 Cri LJ 1116], a guilty intention is an
 essential ingredient of the offence of cheating. In
 order, therefore, to secure the conviction of a person
 for the offence of cheating, 'mens rea' on the part of
 that person must be established. It was also observed
 in Mahadeo Prasad v. State of W.B. [AIR 1954 SC 724: criminal prosecution on the ground that civil proceedings

 are also maintainable, this Court has held that quashing of
 FIR or a complaint exercising power under Section 482 CrPC should be limited to a very extreme exception; merely

 because an act has a civil profile is not enough to stop
 action on the criminal side. It is further held that a
 provision made in the agreement for referring the disputes

 of
 to arbitration is not an effective substitute for a criminal
 prosecution when the disputed act constitutes a criminal
 offence. 15.
 rt
 A similar view was taken in G.V. Rao v. L.H.V. Prasad ,

 (2000) 3 SCC 693, as under: 5. The High Court quashed the proceedings principally on
 the ground that Chapter XVII of the Penal Code, 1860, deals
 with the offences against properties and, therefore, Section
 415 must also necessarily relate to the property which, in
 the instant case, is not involved and, consequently, the FIR ::: Downloaded on - 09/03/2026 20:33:44 :::CIS 12 2026:HHC:6246

 was liable to be quashed. The broad proposition on which
 the High Court proceeded is not correct. While the first part
 of the definition relates to property, the second part does

 . not necessarily relate to property. The second part is

 reproduced below: 6. This part speaks of intentional deception which must be
 intended not only to induce the person deceived to do or
 rt
 omit to do something but also to cause damage or harm to
 that person in body, mind, reputation or property. The

 intentional deception presupposes the existence of a
 dominant motive of the person making the inducement.
 Such inducement should have led the person deceived or

 induced to do or omit to do anything which he would not
 have done or omitted to do if he were not deceived. The
 further requirement is that such an act or omission should

 have caused damage or harm to body, mind, reputation or
 property. 7. As mentioned above, Section 415 has two parts. While in
 the first part, the person must "dishonestly" or

 "fraudulently" induce the complainant to deliver any
 property; in the second part, the person should
 intentionally induce the complainant to do or omit to do a
 thing. That is to say, in the first part, inducement must be
 dishonest or fraudulent. In the second part, the
 inducement should be intentional. As observed by this
 Court in Jaswantrai Manilal Akhaney v. State of Bombay [AIR
 1956 SC 575: 1956 Cri LJ 1116: 1956 SCR 483], a guilty
 intention is an essential ingredient of the offence of
 cheating. In order, therefore, to secure the conviction of a
 person for the offence of cheating, "mens rea" on the part ::: Downloaded on - 09/03/2026 20:33:44 :::CIS 13 2026:HHC:6246

 of that person must be established. It was also observed in Mahadeo Prasad v. State of W.B. [AIR 1954 SC 724: 1954 Cri LJ
 1806] that in order to constitute the offence of cheating,

 . the intention to deceive should be in existence at the time

 when the inducement was offered. 8. Thus, so far as the second part of Section 415 is

 concerned, "property", at no stage, is involved. Here, it is
 the doing of an act or omission to do an act by the
 complainant, as a result of intentional inducement by the

 of
 accused, which is material. Such inducement should result
 in the doing of an act or omission to do an act as a result of
 which the person concerned should have suffered or was
 likely to suffer damage or harm in body, mind, reputation
 rt
 or property. In an old decision of the Allahabad High Court
 in Empress v. Sheoram [(1882) 2 AWN 237], it was held by

 Mahmood, J.: 16. In the present case, there are no averments in the FIR

 that any representation was made by the petitioner to the

 informant, which led the informant to supply the apple to the

 petitioner. The informant's simple case is that he had supplied

 the apple to the petitioner and other apple traders, and they had

 not made the payment to him. It was rightly submitted on behalf

 of the petitioner that this was a dispute regarding the payment of

 money and does not involve any criminality. 2026:HHC:6246 17. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Anukul Singh v. State of U.P. , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 2060, that

 . criminal proceedings cannot be used for enforcing civil rights. It

 was observed: - (2006) 6 SCC 736, it was held that criminal law cannot be
 used as a tool to settle scores in commercial or contractual
 matters, and that such misuse amounts to abuse of process. rt
 xxxxx 10. While on this issue, it is necessary to take notice

 of a growing tendency in business circles to convert
 purely civil disputes into criminal cases. This is
 obviously on account of a prevalent impression that
 civil law remedies are time-consuming and do not

 adequately protect the interests of lenders/creditors.
 Such a tendency is seen in several family disputes,
 also leading to an irretrievable breakdown of

 marriages/families. There is also an impression that
 if a person could somehow be entangled in a criminal

 prosecution, there is a likelihood of imminent
 settlement. Any effort to settle civil disputes and

 claims, which do not involve any criminal offence, by
 applying pressure through criminal prosecution
 should be deprecated and discouraged." 18. Similarly, in Inder Mohan Goswami v. State of Uttaranchal (2007) 12 SCC 1: AIR 2008 SC 251, it was emphasised that
 criminal prosecution must not be permitted as an
 instrument of harassment or private vendetta. In Ganga
 Dhar Kalita v. State of Assam (2015) 9 SCC 647, this Court
 again reiterated that criminal complaints in respect of
 property disputes of a civil nature, filed solely to harass the ::: Downloaded on - 09/03/2026 20:33:44 :::CIS 15 2026:HHC:6246

 accused or to exert pressure in civil litigation, constitute an
 abuse of process. 19. Most recently, in Shailesh Kumar Singh @ Shailesh R.

 . Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh 2025 INSC 869, this Court

 disapproved the practice of using criminal proceedings as a
 substitute for civil remedies, observing that money
 recovery cannot be enforced through criminal prosecution

 where the dispute is essentially civil. The Court cautioned
 High Courts not to direct settlements in such matters but to
 apply the settled principles in Bhajan Lal. The following

 of
 paragraphs are relevant in this context: 25,00,000/- to the 4th respondent as a condition

 . precedent. We fail to understand why the High Court

 should undertake such an exercise. The High Court
 may either allow the petition, saying that no offence
 is disclosed or may reject the petition, saying that no

 case for quashing is made out. Why should the High
 Court attempt to help the complainant to recover the
 amount due and payable by the accused? It is for the

 of
 Civil Court or Commercial Court, as the case may be,
 to look into a suit that may be filed for recovery of
 money or in any other proceedings, be it under the Arbitration Act, 1996 or under the provisions of the
 rt
 IB Code, 2016. 12. Why the High Court was not able to understand

 that the entire dispute between the parties is of a civil
 nature. 13. We also enquired with the learned counsel

 appearing for the Respondent No. 4 whether his
 client has filed any civil suit or has initiated any other
 proceedings for recovery of the money. It appears

 that no civil suit has been filed for the recovery of
 money to date. Money cannot be recovered, more

 particularly, in a civil dispute between the parties by
 filing a First Information Report and seeking the help
 of the Police. This amounts to abuse of the process of

 law. 14. We could have said many things, but we refrain
 from observing anything further. If the Respondent
 No. 4 has to recover a particular amount, he may file
 a civil suit or seek any other appropriate remedy
 available to him in law. He cannot be permitted to
 take recourse to criminal proceedings. 15. We are quite disturbed by the manner in which the
 High Court has passed the impugned order. The High
 Court first directed the appellant to pay Rs. 2026:HHC:6246

 25,00,000/- to the Respondent No. 4 and thereafter
 directed him to appear before the Mediation and
 Conciliation Centre for the purpose of settlement. . That's not what is expected of a High Court to do in a

 Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the
 Constitution or a miscellaneous application filed
 under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code,

 1973, for quashing of FIR or any other criminal
 proceedings. What is expected of the High Court is to
 look into the averments and the allegations levelled

 of
 in the FIR, along with the other material on record, if
 any. The High Court seems to have forgotten the
 well-settled principles as enunciated in the decision
 of this Court in the " State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal ",
 rt
 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335. 18. In the present case, an attempt is being made to

 convert a civil dispute regarding the payment of money into a

 criminal case, which is impermissible. 19. Hon'ble Supreme Court held in Kapil Agarwal vs.

 Sanjay Sharma , (2021) 5 SCC 524: 2021 SCC OnLine SC 154 that

 criminal proceedings cannot be permitted to become a weapon of

 harassment. It was observed: 2026:HHC:6246 20. It was submitted that the petitioner had failed to pay

 the money to the informant, which shows that his intention was

 . fraudulent to begin with. This submission cannot be accepted. It

 was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Satishchandra

 Ratanlal Shah v. State of Gujarat , (2019) 9 SCC 148 : (2019) 3 SCC

 (Cri) 697: 2019 SCC OnLine SC 196 that mere inability to return the

 of
 amount cannot give rise to a criminal prosecution for cheating

 unless fraudulent or dishonest intention is shown right at the
 rt
 beginning of the transaction, as it is this mens rea which is the

 crux of the offence. This position was reiterated in Ashok Kumar

 Jain v. State of Gujarat , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 998, and it was held

 that the fraudulent intention cannot be inferred by mere failure

 to honour the contract. A similar view was taken in Kunti (supra),

 Sarabjit Kaur (supra) and Rikhan Birani (supra). The informant

 has filed the party's ledger (Annexure R-1), which shows that the

 money was being paid by the petitioner to the informant on

 various dates, and in the absence of any evidence regarding the

 fraudulent intention of the petitioner at the beginning, he cannot

 be held liable for cheating simply because he was unable to fulfil

 the terms and conditions of the contract. 21. No other point was urged. 2026:HHC:6246 22. In view of the above, the continuation of the

 proceedings qua the petitioner would amount to an abuse of the

 . process of the law. Hence, the present petition is allowed and FIR

 No. 64 of 2023, dated 31.3.2023, registered at Police Station

 Theog, District Shimla, H.P., for the commission of an offence

 punishable under Section 420 of IPC. is ordered to be quashed qua

 of
 the petitioner. 23.
 rt
 Petition stands disposed of in the above terms, so also

 pending miscellaneous applications, if any. 24. Parties are permitted to produce a copy of this

 judgment, downloaded from the webpage of the High Court of

 Himachal Pradesh, before the authorities concerned, and the said

 authorities shall not insist on the production of a certified copy,

 but if required, may verify passing of the order from the Website

 of the High Court. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 9th March, 2026
 (Nikita) ::: Downloaded on - 09/03/2026 20:33:44 :::CIS