The present regular second appeal has been directed against the

judgments and decrees passed by the Courts below whereby the suit filed

by the respondents for specific performance of the agreement to sell dated

10.9.1986 was decreed by the learned trial court and findings recorded by

the trial court were affirmed in appeal. As per case set up by the plaintiffs-respondents, appellant- RSA-1476 of 1999 -2-

defendant executed agreement to sell on 10.9.1986 in regard to land

measuring 15 Kanals 19 Marlas situated in revenue estate of Livaspur and

received the total sale consideration of Rs. 1,30,000/- vide receipt dated

10.9.1986. The symbolic possession of the land was delivered to the

plaintiffs. It was agreed that whenever the plaintiffs will be ready to spend

the stamp charges, the defendant will execute the sale deed in favour of the

plaintiffs. The defendant was also to obtain clearance certificate from the

Income Tax Department. The defendant also executed a general power of

attorney in favour of real brother of the plaintiff and one Randhir Singh on

that date. The possession of the suit property has been delivered to the

defendant and he is bound to give actual physical possession to the

plaintiffs. The plaintiffs had always been ready and willing to perform

their part of the contract and asked a number of times to the defendant to

get clearance certificate but he had been avoiding on one or other pretext.

The notice was given to the defendant to get the sale deed executed on

4.9.1989 but he failed to do so. The defendant filed the written statement seriously contesting

the claim of the plaintiffs while controverting all the allegations in regard to

execution of the agreement to sell, receipt of Rs. 1,30,000/- and execution

of power of attorney. It was averred that there was dispute between the

defendant and Joginder Singh etc. regarding forfeiture of the earnest money

paid by them in respect of agreement to sell agricultural land to Joginder

Singh etc. on 16.4.1984. Joginder Singh etc. committed breach in

performance of their part of the contract and earnest money of Rs. 50,000/- Joginder Singh etc. brought the defendant and his son to

Sonepat on pretext of settlement and when they reached near the PWD Rest

House, three other persons who were not known to the defendant met them

there. They took the defendant and his son to a nearby restaurant and got

them dead drunk. The defendant and his son are illiterate. Joginder Singh

and the plaintiffs in conspiracy with each other, got some documents

scribed. The defendant and his son are totally unaware of contents of those

documents and those documents probably have been used by the plaintiffs

for the purpose of present suit. The alleged power of attorney is the product

of fraud practised by the plaintiffs and Joginder Singh on the defendant.

The plaintiffs are not in possession of the suit land and a part of the land

was in actual possession of the defendant and possession of the remaining

land has also been obtained by the defendant over two years back. The plaintiffs filed replication reiterating their stand taken up

in the plaint while controverting the allegations set out in the written

statement that the documents relied upon by the plaintiffs are the result of

fraud practised upon the defendant. The controversy between the parties led to framing of following

issues by the learned trial court:- Narinder Singh and Mokhi Ram plaintiffs No. 1 and 3

examined themselves as PW1 and PW2 and they further examined Joginder

Singh PW3. Mahavir Prasad PW4, Randhir Singh PW5 and Krishan Kumar

Malik PW6. On the other hand, Khem Chand appeared as his own witness,

examined his son Bhim Singh DW2, Dhani Ram DW3, Har Narayan DW4

and Surat Singh DW5. Joginder PW3 was again examined in rebuttal

evidence on 6.3.1998. The learned trial court, on consideration of evidence adduced

by the parties and bestowing its thought to rival submissions made by their

respective counsels decided Issue Nos. 1 to 4 in favour of the plaintiffs

while Issue No. 5 has been decided against the defendant-appellant and as a

result, the suit of the plaintiffs was decreed directing the defendant to

specifically perform his part of the contract by executing the sale deed in

favour of the plaintiffs as per terms and conditions of the agreement to sell

dated 10.9.1986 within a period of three months. The matter was carried in appeal by the defendant-appellant
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -5-

Khem Chand which came to be dismissed by the District Judge, Sonepat

vide impugned judgment and decree dated 3.3.1989. Feeling aggrieved by the verdict of the courts below, the

present regular second appeal has been preferred by Khem Chand appellant. The appeal was admitted on 28.1.2003 and at the time of

admission, this court formulated the following substantial questions of law

for consideration:- It is further argued that a bare perusal of documents Ex. DW5/A

and DW5/B falsifies version of the plaintiffs that no such agreement was

executed between Joginder Singh etc. and the defendant and further

corroborates the plea of the defendant-appellant that the documents relied

upon by the plaintiffs are the result of fraud. It is further submitted that as

the matter pertains to the year 1986, it may not be in the interest of justice

to remit the matter to the first appellate court for decision afresh after
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -7-

examining the documents Ex. DW5/A and DW5/B. It is argued that the

disputed questions of fact can well be decided by this Court in the light of

provisions of Section 103 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Another submission made by counsel is that even otherwise,

the respondents are not entitled to specific performance of the agreement as

they have failed to establish that they always remained ready and willing to

perform their part of the agreement. To substantiate his contention, counsel

has submitted that as per plea of the plaintiffs, the agreement for sale was

executed on 10.9.1986 but the suit for specific performance was instituted

in September 1989 exactly after a period of three years from the date of

agreement. Had the plaintiffs been ready and willing to perform their part of

the agreement, there was no reason for them not to get the sale deed

registered through the attorney holders in view of registered power of

attorney Ex. P3. He has further submitted that reluctance and hesitation on

the part of the plaintiffs in acting upon the power of attorney for getting the

sale deed executed in their favour is a telling circumstance that the said

power of attorney is the result of fraud and for that reason the plaintiffs in

their wisdom did not think it proper to transfer the land in their favour by

using the said document. In support of his contention, he has cited Ram

Niwas Gupta vs. Mumtaz Hasan and others , 2002(1)PLJ 175, Moti Lal

Jain vs. Smt. Ramdasi Devi and others , 2000( 2) PLJ171,

K.S.Vidyanadam and others vs. Vairavan , AIR 1997Supreme Court 1751, N.P.Thirugnanam (Dead) by L.Rs. vs. Dr. R. Jagan Mohan Rao and

other, AIR 1996 Supreme Court 116. Counsel for the respondents, on the contrary, has supported the
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -8-

judgments passed by the courts below with the submissions that the

defendant-appellant has miserably failed to adduce any reliable much less

tangible evidence on record to substantiate his plea that there was any

transaction for sale of land between Joginder Singh etc. and the defendant in

the year 1984 which could be the possible cause of any dispute between the

parties. It is further argued that no such documents i.e. agreement to sell

and receipt were put to the witnesses of the plaintiffs particularly Joginder

Singh PW3 examined on 22.7.1992. Khem Chand defendant, appeared in

the witness box on 27.3.1996 and his son Bhim Singh was also examined

on the same date but they did not bring on record any such document(s). It

is for the first time during statement of Surat Singh DW5 examined on

22.12.1997, photocopies of two documents were marked as Ex. DW5/A and

DW5/B with an objection by the opposite counsel. It is strenuously argued

that had there been any such transaction between the defendant and Joginder

Singh etc. and copies of those documents were available with the defendant,

there was no reason for the defendant not to place these documents on

record along with written statement or put these documents to the witnesses

of the plaintiffs or bring it on record at least during his own examination in

March 1996. Surat Singh is closely related to the defendant-appellant as he

admitted that he is married in the family of Khem Chand. The photocopies

of the documents cannot be attached any worth in absence of the

defendant's proving existence of the original documents or there being any

transaction for sale of land in favour of Joginder Singh and others.

According to learned counsel, as the documents Ex. DW5/A and DW5/B

have not been proved in accordance with law when otherwise these
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -9-

documents have got no bearing on the merits of the present controversy, the

mere fact that the learned appellate court due to some inadvertence has

mentioned that copy of such agreement and receipt has not been produced

on record is not at all sufficient to set aside the concurrent findings of fact

recorded by the courts below which are otherwise based upon correct and

meticulous appreciation of evidence adduced by the parties. It is further

argued that the appellant failed to discharge heavy onus to establish his plea

that the documents Exs. P1 to P3 are the result of fraud. The power of

attorney Ex. P3 is a registered document and a presumption of correctness is

available to a registered document in view of the provisions of Section 85 of

the Indian Evidence Act. In addition, it is submitted that as per version of

the defendant, the defendant and his son were taken to a restaurant where

they were asked to consume liquor and under its influence, their signatures

were obtained on certain papers. It is highly difficult nay impossible to

accept that had it been true, how the power of attorney was got registered by

the defendant on 10.9.1986

 So far as the plaintiffs being always ready and willing to

perform their part of the agreement, counsel would submit that the courts

below have recorded consistent findings of fact in this regard while

deciding issue No. 4 and those findings are not amenable to challenge in

the regular second appeal. For this purpose, he has referred to judgment of

Hon'ble the Supreme Court in Narayanan Rajendran and another vs.

Lekshmy Sarojini and others , 2009(2)R.C.R.(Civil) 286. Counsel has further argued that once the defendant-appellant

has denied execution of the agreement to sell, it is otherwise not open for
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -10-

the defendant to raise any argument that willingness and readiness of the

plaintiffs-respondents is not proved. For this purpose, he has relied upon

judgment of this court in RSA No. 4013 of 2013 decided on 12.3.2014 titled

" Gurmail Singh vs. Rajinder Kumar and another ". To refute contention of the appellant that the plaintiffs were not

ready to perform their part of the agreement as they instituted the suit almost

on completion of three years from the date of agreement, it is submitted that

invariably, time is not essence of contract in transactions for transfer of

immovable property and therefore, the appellant cannot take advantage to

his contention from the fact that the suit was filed just near expiry of period

of three years. It is further argued that as the defendant was obliged to

obtain income tax clearance for execution of the sale deed, he cannot be

allowed to take advantage of his own wrong in not taking steps for

necessary compliance or to raise either the plea of limitation or the

contesting party being not ready and willing to perform his part of the

agreement . In this context, another submission made by counsel is that in

the agreement, no date for registration of the sale deed was fixed between

the parties for the reason that part of the suit land was admittedly in

possession of tenants from whom the land was recovered by the defendant

due to the efforts made by the plaintiffs side on the basis of power of

attorney executed by the defendant in favour of Joginder Singh and another.

The plaintiffs were not in a position to get the sale deed executed/registered

on the basis of power of attorney as permission from the Income Tax

Department was required to be obtained by the defendant. In support of his

contentions, he has relied upon Panchanan Dhara and others vs.
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -11-

Monmatha Nath Maity (Dead) through L.Rs. and another,2006(3) R.C.R.

(Civil) 212(SC), Balasaheb Dayandeo Naik (Dead) through Lrs. and

others vs. Appasaheb Dattatraya Pawar 2008( 1)R.C.R.(Civil) 893(SC)

and Gunwantbhai Mulchand Shah and others vs. Anton Elis Farel and

others 2006(2)RCR (Civil) 251. I have heard counsel for the parties and perused the records.

 The plea of the appellant that agreement Ex. P1 is the result of

fraud, in essence, is founded upon his version that prior to the agreement in

question,there was an agreement for sale of land between the appellant and

Joginder Singh son of Rattan Singh, Ranbir Sing son of Mokhi Ram and

one Rajbir Singh on 16.4.1984 in regard whereof there was dispute between

the appellant and Joginder Singh etc. regarding forfeiture of earnest money

amounting to Rs. 50,000/-. Much stress has been laid by counsel for the

appellant that the lower appellate court has ignored the documentary

evidence in the form of earlier agreement and receipt, copies whereof are

marked as Ex. DW5/A and DW5/B respectively. The first question to be answered in the present circumstances

is whether the appellant has been able to establish his plea that there was an

earlier agreement for sale of agricultural land by the appellant in favour of

Joginder Singh and others as per documents Exs. DW5/A and DW5/B.

Indisputably, the original documents i.e. agreement and receipt dated

16.4.1984 have not seen the light of day in the present case. Copies of these

documents were not produced on record with the written statement, during

examination of the witnesses of the plaintiffs-respondents, examination of

the defendant and his son. At the fag end of the trial, after examination of
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -12-

four witnesses by the defendant, an application was submitted for proving

these documents by way of secondary evidence which was allowed by the

court. I would hasten to add that in the written statement, there is no

reference that the said agreement and receipt were attested by Surat Singh

examined as a witness after seeking permission to prove these documents by

way of secondary evidence. Surat Singh appeared in the witness box on

22.12.1997. During cross examination, he has stated that he has been

married in the family of Khem Chand appellant. Joginder Singh one of the

proposed vendee in the alleged agreement dated 16.4.1984 was examined

on 22.7.1992. During his cross examination, the documents were not put to

the witness in order to confront him that the same bear his signatures. After

examination of Surat Singh DW5, said Joginder Singh again appeared in the

witness box and denied his signatures on Ex. DW5/A. There is no evidence

on record except the statement of Surat Singh and oral version of the

defendant and his son with regard to earlier agreement between Khem

Chand and Joginder Singh etc. It is pertinent to note that the receipt

Ex.DW5/B only bears attestation of Surat Singh and the date beneath his

signatures is 17.4.1984 which goes a long way to show that signatures of

Surat Singh have been appended on this document later to introduce him as

a witness and for this reason, written statement does not make reference to

the name of the attesting witness of the agreement to sell and receipt. This

apart, if any such receipt was to be obtained by Joginder Singh etc., in

natural circumstances, it should have been attested by a witness from the

side of the proposed vendees because there was no possibility for the

vendees to examine Surat Singh as a witness in support of their plea of
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -13-

having paid an amount of Rs. 50,000/- to Khem Chand. All these facts

create a serious doubt in the version of the appellant-defendant that

agreement dated 16.4.1984 was executed between the appellant and

Joginder Singh etc. and there was a dispute between the appellant and

Joginder Singh etc. in regard to forfeiture of Rs. 50,000/- in regard

whereof, the appellant was invited by said Joginder Singh etc. for

settlement of dispute. One thing more to be added here is that if the parties

agreed to settle their dispute in regard to Rs. 50,000/-, alleged to be forfeited

by the appellant and Joginder Singh etc. had not been given any right

against the appellant in regard to that money, where was the occasion for

them to ask the appellant and his son to put their signatures/thumb

impressions. The appellant has raised the plea that the agreement

propounded by the plaintiffs-respondents is the result of fraud as thumb

impressions of the appellant and his son were obtained under the influence

of liquor. Admittedly, the appellant did not lodge any report with any

authority against Joginder Singh etc. that they were forced to consume

liquor and thereafter their thumb impressions were obtained without

making them to know contents of the documents. The plea of fraud is

required to be proved by a party beyond shadow of reasonable doubt even in

civil litigation. The written statement is silent as to the person from whom

the documents were got scribed. It does not make a specific reference as to

the place where the signatures/thumb impressions of defendant and his son

were obtained. Narender Singh, plaintiff PW1 and Mokhi Ram, plaintiff

PW2 examined themselves and were subject to cross examination. These
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -14-

witnesses have categorically deposed that the defendant and his son Bhim

Singh were fully conscious and the agreement Ex. P1 was thumb marked by

both of them. They have further deposed that no fraud has been committed

against the defendant with regard to execution of the agreement Ex. P1.

During cross examination of these witnesses, no such fact was put to them

that an agreement for sale of agricultural land was executed between the

defendant and Joginder Singh etc. or there was dispute between them

regarding forfeiture of Rs. 50,000/- paid towards earnest money or the

defendant was called by Joginder Singh etc. for settlement of the said

dispute. On the other hand, both these witnesses are quite firm and

consistent that before approaching the petition writer for scribing the

documents in dispute, they did not go to a hotel nor made the defendant and

his son to consume liquor nor got their thumb impressions under influence

of liquor. From cross examination of these witnesses, it can be inferred that

stand of the defendant is that he and his son were made to consume liquor in

a hotel and thereafter the parties came to the petition writer where

documents were prepared which were later thumb marked by the defendant

and his son. However, during cross examination, no such fact has been put

to the witnesses as to the circumstances under which the power of attorney

happened to be got registered in the presence of defendant-appellant Khem

Chand. Joginder Singh, the purported vendee under the agreement dated

16.4.1984 appeared in the witness box twice but counsel for the defendant-

appellant failed to elicit any tangible material on record to impeach his

credibility or substantiate his plea that there was a deal of sale of land

between the defendant and said Joginder Singh vide agreement dated
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -15-

16.4.1984 when admittedly no such document was put to the witness.

Mahavir Prasad, Deed Writer, Sonepat was examined to prove power of

attorney Ex. P3. The witness scribed the said power of attorney which was

entered in his register at Sr. No. 1288. During cross examination, no such

material has been brought on record to prove that his testimony is not

worthy of credence and reliance much less based on falsehood. Ranbir

Singh, one of the proposed vendee in the alleged agreement dated

16.4.1984 was also examined but counsel for the appellant-defendant failed

to demolish evidentiary value of his statement. On the other hand, Khem Chand defendant appeared to prove

his plea of fraud. In his examination-in-chief, a relevant extract from his

testimony reads as follows:- The statement does not make reference that the parties went to

the scribe where the documents were prepared and thereafter got thumb

marked from the appellant and his son under influence of liquor as has been
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -16-

sought to be projected during cross examination of Narender Singh and

Mokhi Ram. Further, in view of statement of Khem Chand, the opposite

party obtained his and his son's signatures and nothing was written at that

place. It is none of the plea of the appellant in his statement that his

signatures were obtained on documents which were already scribed. The

statement of the appellant in the court is contradictory to the stand taken

during cross examination of the plaintiffs as discussed hereinbefore. Bhim

Singh son of the defendant has deposed that they asked for return of

earnest money and thereafter they obtained signatures on two papers and the

matter of registry was putt off. During cross examination, he has deposed

that he does not remember if his signatures were obtained on stamp paper

or other papers. The appellant and his son are quite categoric in their

depositions that their signatures were obtained by Joginder Singh and others

at the place where they were made to drink liquor. The story of obtaining of

signaures gets falsified in view of documentary evidence that the agreement

Ex. P1, receipt Ex. P2 and power of attorney Ex. P3 all bear thumb

impressions of the appellant and his son. Bhim Sigh has categorically

deposed that his signatures were obtained on two papers when as a matter

of fact he put his thumb impression on three documents i.e. Agreement,

receipt and power of attorney. The written statement filed by the appellant

does not make reference that Dhani Ram and Har Narayan also

accompanied the appellant and his son when they had gone to Sonepat at

the invite of Joginder Singh etc. The witnesses examined by the plaintiffs

have not been confronted with the factum of presence of Dhani Ram and

Har Narayan along with defendant and his son when their alleged signatures
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -17-

were obtained. It appears that names of Dhani Ram and Har Narayan have

been introduced later by the defendant-appellant in order to substantiate his

story that the parties had gone to a dhaba/hotel and there the defendant and

his son were asked to consume liquor and under influence of liquor their

signatures or thumb impressions were obtained. Under these

circumstances, the appellant cannot gain any advantage to his contention of

farud from the testimony of Dhani Ram and Har Narayan. Even otherwise,

Dhani Ram in his cross examination has deposed that he does not know how

many persons were there in the dhaba and he does not know what happened

in the dhaba. Har Narayan has stated that he was outside the dhaba and

when they came out of dhaba they told that the matter has been settled and

they appended their thumb impressions and signatures. Keeping in view the

entire evidence on record, I find it difficult to accept contention of counsel

for the appellant that the documents Ex. P1 to P3 are the result of fraud or

thumb impressions of the appellant and his son were obtained by making

them to consume liquor. The appellant failed to lead satisfactory much less

cogent and convincing evidence to prove that there was earlier a deal for

sale of land between the appellant and Joginder Singh etc. and as a result

the story of the appellant that he was called by Joginder Singh etc. for

settlement of dispute in regard to forfeiture of Rs. 50,000/- pertaining to

earlier transaction otherwise loses its foundation and bound to crumble.

The conduct of the appellant is not worthy of credence and reliance who

even introduced Dhani and Har Narayan as witnesses to support his well

thought story that the appellant and his son were made to drink liqour and

under its influence asked to sign certain papers. The failure of the appellant
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -18-

to complain against the conduct of Joginder Singh etc. even after receipt of

notice of the suit is another circumstance to disbelieve his version that a

fraud had been practiced upon him and the documents Ex. P1 to P3 are the

result of said fraud. The plaintiffs-respondents have relied upon three documents

i.e. Agreement to sell Ex,. P1, receipt Ex. P2 and power of attorney Ex. P3.

The power of attorney is a registered document and a presumption of

correctness is attached to the endorsement of the Sub Registrar on a

registered document in view of provisions of Section 85 of the Indian

Evidence Act. The fact that Khem Chand appeared before the registering

authority for the purpose of registration of the power of attorney on

10.9.1986 further falsifies and belies the story of the defendant-appellant

that his signatures/thumb impressions were obtained under the

circumstances sought to be set up in the written statement. Taken from any

angle, I do not find any merit in the contentions of the appellant that the

courts below committed any error much less illegality in recording

concurrent findings determining issue No. 5 against the appellant and Issue

Nos. 1 to 3 in favour of the plaintiffs-respondents. Counsel for the appellant has also sought to assail entitlement

of the plaintiffs to the discretion of the Court for specific performance of the

agreement as suit was filed just close to three years from the date of

agreement on 10.9.1986. A plain reading of the judgments referred to by

counsel for the parties makes it apparent that it has been consistently laid

down by the courts that time is not essence of contract in transactions

pertaining to immovable property unless a different intention appears from
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -19-

the contents of the documents executed between the parties. The Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India in K.S.Vidyanadam and others' case (supra) has

held in para 11, quoted hereinbelow:- In this case, the court thought of deviating from the rigor of the

rule evolved by courts that time is not essence of contract in the cases of

urban immovable properties as the earlier principles were evolved in times

when prices and values were stable and inflation was unknown. It appears

from the observations made by their Lordships that in cases of urban

immovable properties the aforesaid rule that time is not essence of contract

requires to be relaxed as the prices and values are not stable and inflation

resulting in rise in prices. In the case at hand, the property in dispute is

rural property and not an urban one. Secondly, the transaction for sale of

property relates to September 1986 and the suit was instituted in September
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -21-

1989. Narender Singh and Mokhi Ram (plaintiffs) PW1 and PW2 have

categorically deposed that value of the land at the time of agreement was

Rs. 60,000/- to 65,000/- per acre. During cross examination the statements

of these witnesses in this regard were not challenged which tantamounts to

an admission on the part of the defendant-appellant. No such fact has been

elicited during cross examination of plaintiffs witnesses or by way of

positive evidence of the defendant that there was any rise in prices in the

area in question from the year 1986 to 1989 in order to doubt credentials of

the plaintiffs with regard to their readiness and willingness to perform their

part of the agreement. Another aspect of the matter which requires consideration is

that admittedly a part of the land subject matter of the agreement was

occupied by tenants. No doubt, there is no document on record to prove

that proceedings for ejectment of those tenants were initiated either by the

attorney holders under Ex. P3 or by the defendant-appellant. However,

Narender Singh and Mokhi Ram have deposed that the tenants were got

evicted by the attorney holder and the possession was got delivered to the

defendant. The defendant-appellant has admitted the fact that he came in

possession of the land under tenancy about two years ago. There is no

challenge to the testimony of Narender Singh and Mokhi Ram that it is

because of the efforts of the plaintiffs or the attorney holders that the land in

occupation of the tenants was got vacated. These facts also corroborate

version of the plaintiffs that they were ready and willing to perform their

part of the agreement. It is pertinent to mention here that as per the case set up by the
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -22-

plaintiffs, the entire sale consideration of Rs. 1,30,000/- had already been

paid to the defendant vide receipt Ex. P2 dated 10.9.1986. As the plaintiffs

had already paid the entire sale consideration, the only part of the contract

which they were required to perform was to incur expenses required for

purchase of stamp papers and registration charges. No such fact has come

on record during cross examination of the plaintiffs that they did not have

enough money to meet those expenses in order to negate their plea of

being ready and willing to perform their part of the agreement. As per the

agreement Ex. P1, the vendor was required to obtain clearance from the

income tax department. As the appellant has denied execution of the

agreement, there was no occasion for him to seek necessary clearance from

the income tax department. Once the appellant has not obtained clearance

from the income tax department even on receipt of entire sale

consideration, he otherwise cannot be heard to say that the plaintiffs have

committed breach of the terms of the agreement or they were not ready and

willing to perform their part of the contract. When the facts and

circumstances of the present case are analyzed in view of the judgments

quoted by counsel for the parties, rendered in view of the peculiar facts and

circumstances involved in those cases, I find no merit in the contention of

the appellant that the courts below have erroneously held in favour of the

plaintiffs that they always remained ready and willing to perform their part

of the agreement. I would hasten to add that if we go by the story

propounded by the defendant that the plaintiffs joined hands with Joginder

Singh etc. in obtaining signatures-thumb impression of the defendant and

his son by bringing them under influence of liquor, there is no possibility
 RSA-1476 of 1999 -23-

for them not to be ready and willing to perform their part of the agreement

in meeting the expenses of getting the sale deed executed and registered in

their favour. The plea of the appellant questioning as to why the plaintiffs

did not make use of power of attorney to get the sale deed registered, no

explanation was sought from the plaintiffs (PW1 and PW2) in this regard.

The agreement created an obligation upon the defendant (vendor) to obtain

clearance from Income Tax Department. The plaintiffs might have thought

in their wisdom that transfer of land cannot be completed in absence of said

celarance and that also without intervention of court and that being so, they

served notice upon the defendant calling upon him to do the needful. There

is no challenge to the stand taken by the plaintiffs that before institution of

the suit, they served such notice upon the defendant. In these

circumstances, failure of the plaintiffs to get the sale deed registered

through attorney holder neither creates doubt in respect of correctness of

power of attorney nor bona fide of their plea of readiness and willingness. As an upshot of the aforesaid discussion, I do not find merit in

the contention of the appellant. Consequently, the appeal sans merit and is

accordingly dismissed with costs. (Rekha Mittal)
 Judge
10.9.2014
paramjit