and the same is available in You Tube wherein the

 video clip depicts that the reporter of the news channel is making

 conversation with the court master of the Special Judge (Excise

 and Prohibition), Patna, Sri R.N. Tripathi. It has also been stated

 that the videotapes contains unimpeachable evidence of bribery in

 the court of Mr. Tripathi as the court master admits on camera that

 he charges a bribe amount of Rs. 1,000/- from every under trial

 prisoner for sending him/her to Beur Jail but, during argument,

 when this Court has asked the material to substantiate the sting

 operation done by the Aaj Tak whereupon Mr. Dinesh Kumar

 could not bring on record to show that the sting operation has been

 done by the Hindi T.V. Channel Aaj Tak. Further supplementary affidavit has been filed stating

 that the sting operation exposes rampant bribery and culture of

 'paid justice' in the District Court, Patna and failure to take

 exemplary action against those involved in such corruption cases

 will give a bleak message in the citizenry of the State and further
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 6/41 stated that it is a clear case of constituting offence under different

 sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act . During course of argument, Sri Dinesh Kumar has

 submitted that the sting operation which has been made viral and

 aired in the Republic T.V. itself constitutes a prima facie case of

 the court machinery, not discharging the duty free from corruption

 and this Court should give direction for lodging of the First

 Information Report in the present case and has placed reliance on

 the judgment passed in the case of State of Madhya Pradesh &

 Ors. Vs. Shri Ram Singh reported in 2000 Cr.L.J. 1401 SC ~

 (2000) 5 SCC 88 and has further stated that as per provision of Article 235 of the Constitution of India, the entire civil court

 falling within the territorial jurisdiction of this State comes under

 the administrative control of this Court. He has further said that he

 has not only made a complaint to this Court but at different places

 and received the letter from the Hon'ble Apex Court that the High

 Court is empowered to take decision with respect to the

 administrative matter and it is obligatory on the part of this High

 Court to lodge First Information Report in the present case. In the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the Patna High

 Court, it has been stated that after the broadcast of the news item

 titled 'Cash for Justice' dated 15.11.2017, a letter bearing Memo
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 7/41 No. 77876 dated 15.11.2017 under the signature of the Registrar

 General, Patna High Court was sent to the District and Sessions

 Judge, Patna to furnish a detailed report about the sting operation

 and also directed to suspend the employees shown to be involved

 in the matter. In compliance of the aforesaid letter, the District and

 Sessions Judge, Patna vide letter no. 16585 dated 15.11.2017

 informed this Court vide order no. 146 dated 15.11.2017 that the

 persons concerned have been put under suspension with immediate

 effect and attached the order of suspension. The High Court

 through the Registrar General directed the District Judge, Patna to

 send a detailed report in the matter at the earliest. In compliance of

 that letter, the District and Sessions Judge, Patna vide letter no.

 17046 dated 25.11.2017 furnished the list of 17 employees caught

 on camera while taking bribe were put under suspension and the

 departmental proceeding has been initiated against all of them vide

 Departmental Proceeding No. 03/2017 dated 17.11.2017. It has

 been informed that Sri Vipul Sinha, Additional District & Sessions

 Judge-X cum Authorized Officer Special Court No.11, Vigilance,

 Patna has been appointed as Enquiry Officer and In-charge

 Registrar, Civil Court, Patna has been appointed as Presenting

 Officer. It has further been said that all judicial officers posted in

 Sadar, Patna were called on 13.12.2017 at 4.35 PM, were given
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 8/41 clear-cut message upon keeping strict vigil on their respective

 staffs so that they may not engage in corrupt practices. The

 minutes of the meeting was circulated among all judicial officer of

 Patna Judgeship. The District Magistrate called a meeting on

 16.11.2017 at 5 PM and the then District Judge has given a clear-

 cut message to all Class-3 and Class-4 employees not to involve in

 corrupt practices otherwise they will be taken to task. On receipt of

 the report from the Registrar, Civil Court, Patna vide its letter no.

 25017 dated 17.11.2017 about the involvement of the Bench Clerk

 of the court of S.D.J.M., Patna, vide letter no. 151/2017 dated

 17.11.2017, he was put under suspension and the intimation of the

 same was sent to this Court vide office letter no. 16681/Admn.

 dated 17.11.2017. It has further been informed that a general

 notice has been issued giving information to the advocates,

 lawyers, litigants and the general public for giving information

 about the staff involved in gratification, proper action will be taken

 against them. The entire records were placed before the then

 Hon'ble Chief Justice to consider the matter, wherein, he has given

 direction to the District Judge, Patna to give detailed and elaborate

 report in the matter which has been communicated to the District

 Judge vide letter no. 87012 dated 15.12.2017. On receipt of the

 said letter, the District Judge, Patna vide letter no. 18251 dated
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 9/41 18.12.2017 sent a detailed report in the matter of steps taken by the

 District Judge in the matter of controlling and regulating the

 activities of the staff of the civil court and also informed the action

 taken against those caught on camera engaged in taking bribe and

 given details of the employees who were put under suspension

 and also given details of staff attached to the corresponding

 judicial officer or the office or general officer and also informed

 this Court the date when they were put under suspension as well as

 information relating to initiation of departmental proceeding,

 appointing of Enquiry Officer as also the Presenting Officer and

 further informed that he has called all the judicial officials on

 13.12.2017 at 1.30 PM to develop morality to prevent corruption

 in the civil court. It has further been said that they were directed to

 pronounce the next date of the proceeding and further said that he

 requested early completion of the enquiry. He also informed the

 next date of enquiry fixed for examination of the witnesses. In the meantime, a petition dated 5.10.2018 was sent by

 the present petitioner to this Hon'ble Court against Sri R.N.

 Tripathi, A.D.J., Patna and other staffs of the Patna Judgeship

 making allegation of being involved in taking money, whereafter, a

 detailed report was called for from the District Judge, Patna who,

 in turn, vide letter no. 115 dated 6.3.2019 informed this Court the
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 10/41 action taken against the employees involved in the corruption

 cases and further said that the sting operation does not disclose

 conversation, demand or bargain for sale or purchase of any

 judicial order but confined to demanding money for some favor in

 connection with administrative matter. It has further been said that

 to prevent the recurring of incident of corruption, video camera in

 courts and offices of the civil courts of Bihar has been installed on

 the direction of the High Court to root out the corruption in the

 civil court and further denied the allegation made against him

 calling it as false, baseless and concocted. Vide letter dated 27.3.2019, the Registrar General of this

 Court asked the District and Sessions Judge, Patna to submit a

 report to this Court at the earliest whereupon the present District

 and Sessions Judge, Patna vide letter dated 9.4.2019 submitted the

 aforesaid desired report received from Sri Vipul Sinha, Additional

 District & Sessions Judge-X, Patna who is the Enquiry Officer in

 connection with the departmental proceeding in which he has

 stated that on the request of the Presenting Officer, P.W. 1, 2 & 3

 have been recalled and the enquiry proceeding has been fixed for

 the examination of P.W.2 Amit Kumar. It has further been

 informed that on 7.12.2018, he felt severe chest pain, which on

 clinical examination was diagnosed as acute coronary syndrome
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 11/41 whereafter he had gone to the Medanta Hospital, Gurgaon for his

 treatment where he was operated upon on 20.12.2018 and the

 doctor advised three months bed rest. After getting fitness, he

 resumed the duty on 1.4.2019. He gave assurance of early disposal

 of the proceeding. In response, the Registrar General of this Court

 vide letter dated 17.4.2019 requested him to keep strict vigil in

 connection with monitoring the proceedings. In the counter affidavit, it has been stated that Sri

 Prakash Singh, P.W.5 who had done the sting operation and has

 been listed as a prosecution witness, has not turned up for his

 examination despite issuance of registered notice dated 22.12.2017

 and 7.6.2018 whereafter the Presenting Officer filed a petition on

 25.4.2019 with a prayer to issue fresh notice to Sri Prakash Singh,

 reporter of Republic T.V. for production of original video of the

 sting operation. The notice was served upon him and also sent

 through e-mail on the official website of the Republic T.V. It has

 further been said that the Reporter had full knowledge about the

 present departmental proceeding but was not turning up to give

 evidence. In order to secure his statement, Sri Prakash Singh was

 informed the date fixed for departmental proceeding through

 mobile no. 9934907200 whereupon he had assured of his

 cooperation in the departmental proceeding and he also assured
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 12/41 that he will produce the original CD of the sting operation. He

 further requested for fixing the date of enquiry after completion of

 parliamentary election as he was busy in covering the election and

 relating incident. This information was given by Sri Prakash Singh

 to the Presenting Officer who, in turn, requested the Enquiry

 Officer to issue a fresh notice to Sri Prakash Singh for

 participation in the departmental proceeding so that the video

 footage of the sting operation could be secured and also the oral

 statement may be recorded. In the meantime, Sri Dinesh Kumar,

 Advocate, addressed a letter dated 15.11.2018 to three different

 Hon'ble Judges of the Apex Court wherein allegation has been

 made of involvement of Special Judge (Excise) in corruption and it

 has been mentioned that the Presiding Officer acts on the dotted

 line on the advice of his Bench Clerk but, no decision has been

 taken on the administrative side of this Court. In the letter

 addressed to the Hon'ble Judges of the Apex Court, he has

 basically apprised that till date, no criminal case has been initiated

 in the matter against those found involved in taking money which

 is nothing but to compromise with the illegal activities in the

 judicial matter which has been going on in the civil court. Thereafter, the petitioner filed a reply to the counter

 affidavit wherein he has made an allegation that the entire
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 13/41 explanation furnished in the counter affidavit is nothing but an

 eye-wash as he was of the view that the High Court is obliged

 under Article 227 and 235 of the Constitution of India to take

 action in the present episode and has further said that no answer

 has come from the High Court with respect to lodging the criminal

 case and to handover the investigation to the C.B.I. or to the

 Vigilance against those who are found involved in such nefarious

 activities. He has further stated that the statement on affidavit is

 nothing but defence of the bribe takers. It has further been stated

 that the departmental proceeding is totally a farce. He has also

 attached a letter addressed to the Registrar (Vigilance) with respect

 to delay in lodging of the criminal case and also stated that the

 promotion of given to R.N. Tripathi, Special Judge (Excise and

 Prohibition) in whose court room wrong was going on, exposes the

 circus of corruption, has resulted in massive public outrage against

 the judiciary of Bihar. The Hon'ble Apex Court should take note of

 the judicial inaction in the matter. A counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of the

 respondent no.4 informing that the witness no.1, 2 & 3 have been

 examined, re-examined and cross-examined upon recall and have

 been discharged. Sri Prakash Singh, P.W.5, who is the reporter of

 Republic T.V. and conducted the sting operation has not turned up
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 14/41 for his examination. It has also been informed that he was given

 telephonic call to give his statement and production of the original

 CD. He has assured that he will appear and give his evidence after

 Parliamentary Election. Accordingly, 25.5.2019 was fixed for

 recording his statement and production of the original CD of the

 sting operation. Sri Prakash Singh, the star prosecution witness has

 shown his inability to appear on 25.5.2019 due to his engagement

 in the post Lok Sabha election activities for its channel and

 requested another date in the month of June, 2019. On his request,

 the next date was fixed on 1.6.2019 with a direction to the

 Presenting Officer to send notice to the Editor - in Chief of

 Republic TV through e-mail and also to inform Sri Prakash Singh,

 Reporter, Republic TV on his Whatsapp number as well as on his

 local address. On 1.6.2019, Sri Prakash Singh neither turned up

 nor produced the original CD of the sting operation. The

 Presenting Officer informed the Enquiry Officer that on 31.5.2019

 Sri Prakash Singh has requested him through Whatsapp and also

 through voice call to fix another date in the enquiry preferably

 after 18-19th June, 2019 and, accordingly, the next date was fixed

 on 20.6.2019 and further an application was filed by the Presenting

 Officer on 12.6.2019 wherein he received an information from Sri

 Prakash Singh, Reporter of Republic TV of his inability to
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 15/41 participate in the proceeding in the premises of the civil court and

 requested for change of venue at different place and, accordingly,

 the venue was changed and was decided to hold enquiry in the

 premises of Bihar State Legal Services Authority and, accordingly,

 a request was made to Under Secretary. On 20.6.2019, the

 delinquents as also the Presenting Officer and Enquiry Officer

 were present in the premises of State Legal Services Authority but,

 Sri Prakash Singh did not turn up and did not produce the original

 CD of the sting operation and informed the Presenting Officer that

 he was busy with covering unfortunate death of children who were

 dying on account of acute Encephalitis Syndrome at Muzaffarpur

 and he is unable to appear for enquiry. The next date has been

 fixed on 25.7.2019 and, on that day, the departmental proceeding

 could not be completed awaiting the statement to be recorded of

 Sri Prakash Singh. On 2.8.2019, the date fixed for departmental

 proceeding, Sri Prakash Singh, P.W.5 appeared in the departmental

 proceeding, handed over 2 (two) C.D. with certificate under

 Section 65B of the Evidence Act, 1961, has not given oral

 evidence stating that there is no need for oral evidence. A supplementary counter affidavit has been filed on

 28.10.2019 stating that the enquiry has been completed and

 Enquiry Officer has submitted his report along with entire
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 16/41 exhibited materials along with C.D. and the same is under

 consideration before Hon'ble the Chief Justice and Hon'ble

 Inspecting Judge for kind consideration and perusal, further steps

 would be taken in the matter. Learned counsel for the High Court has submitted that in

 the present case, the petitioner has sought relief of mandamus to

 give direction to lodge a criminal case on the basis of sting

 operation. He has made a frontal attack against some of the

 judicial officers. In paragraph nos. 6 & 14 made allegation against

 Sri R.N. Tripathi and has also made an allegation against the then

 District and Sessions Judge. Sri R.N. Tripathi, at the relevant time,

 was Special Judge (Excise & Prohibition) and further submitted

 that merely on the basis of Republic T.V. show giving a heading of

 "Cash for Justice" which was an unverified material, could not be

 a basis to file a criminal case rather only proper action could be

 taken on the basis of evidence collected as per law. It has further

 been submitted that no criminal case can be lodged only on the

 basis of news reporting which has been made viral by the Republic

 T.V., the person who has reported was not coming easily to give

 evidence, he appeared before the Enquiry Officer, submitted the

 C.D. with certificate of originality but, has not given any evidence

 even after lapse of one year and nine months, the substantive
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 17/41 material was not available to impel to lodge a criminal case. It has

 further been submitted that no sooner the news item was made

 viral, the High Court took prompt action by issuing a letter. The

 High Court instantly wrote a letter dated 15.11.2017 (Annexure-A)

 to the then District Judge to give a report about the news having

 been flashed in the media with respect to bribery and also directed

 to submit a report immediately on the action taken in this regard,

 whereupon, the District and Sessions Judge, vide letter no. 16535

 dated 15.11.2017 informed the Court that the staffs found to be

 involved in corruption, were put under suspension with immediate

 effect vide order no. 146 dated 15.11.2017 and also submitted full

 details vide letter no. 17046 dated 25.11.2017 (Annexure-D) and

 letter no. 18251 dated 18.12.2017 (Annexure-F) by which the

 departmental enquiry was set up and Sri Vipul Sinha was

 appointed as Enquiry Officer and after proper enquiry, the then

 District Judge has submitted his further report vide letter no. 115

 dated 6.3.2019 in which he has stated that in the video tape telecast

 through electronic media or in the news published by print media,

 there was no conversation, demand or bargain for sale or purchase

 of any judicial order, it only shows that employees of various

 courts and offices were demanding money for ministerial favour. It

 further said that the allegation made by the petitioner is an attempt
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 18/41 to tarnish the image of the judiciary and also to create a doubt in

 the mind of the litigants. He has further submitted that the present

 petition is a publicity interest litigation, not a public interest

 litigation. On the report, proper action was taken by the High

 Court. Without verifiable material, the First Information Report

 could not be lodged, sweeping allegation has been made against

 the judicial officials without any verifiable material which cannot

 be acceptable. If the evidence would come, certainly proper action

 would be taken. Purely, the present application reflects that it has

 been lodged to malign the judiciary and it does not require to take

 into consideration, inasmuch as, the petition is premature. In

 support of his submission, he has placed reliance on the two

 judgments, namely, Kishore Samrite Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh &

 Ors. reported in (2013) 2 SCC 398 (paragraph nos. 31 to 40) and

 another judgment in the case of Tehseen Poonawalla Vs. Union of

 India & Anr. reported in (2018) 6 SCC 72 (paragraph nos. 96 to 99). Applying the principle delineated therein, the present petition

 is fit to be rejected as having no material evidence rather in an ipsi

 dixit manner, the present writ application has been filed. Nutshell

 as per the High Court, the disclosure of bribery through news-item

 made viral in the Republic T.V., is an unverified material for

 lodging of the First Information Report. Unless some concrete
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 19/41 material is collected showing involvement of corruption, the police

 case cannot be instituted. It has been stated that the C.D. has been

 submitted by the person who had conducted sting operation, which

 is to be verified as to whether it is genuine or edited C.D. The

 person who conducted the sting operation has submitted the C.D.

 along with his certificate of genuineness provided under Section

 65(B) of the Evidence Act. In reply, learned counsel for the petitioner submits that

 the District Judge himself in his letter no. 251 dated 18.12.2017

 and letter no. 115 dated 6.3.2019 (Annexure F & G) has conceded

 that the bribery has taken place and further said in paragraph no.14

 of the counter affidavit, the High Court has stated that sting

 operation reflects involvement of several staffs in bribery. The

 District Judge was requested to submit a report. In turn, the

 District Judge responded which itself shows the prima facie case

 of bribery is made out. It is the duty of the High Court to lodge a

 First Information Report under the Prevention of Corruption Act .

 The prayer has been made that it should be investigated by the

 Central Bureau of Investigation. In support of his submission, he

 has placed reliance on the judgment passed in the case of State of

 M.P. & Ors. Vs. Shri Ram Singh reported in (2000) 5 SCC 88. He

 has further submitted that he had approached the Judges in the
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 20/41 Hon'ble Apex Court to which the petitioner has received reply

 dated 20.4.2019 wherein the Hon'ble Judges of the Apex Court has

 drawn attention to the provision of Article 235 of the Constitution

 of India which prescribes in specific manner the control of High

 Court over the subordinate judiciary and person belonging to the

 judicial services of the State. In such view of the matter, the

 submission has been made that the High Court has failed to

 discharge its duty to lodge First Information Report and that it

 might be possible that there may be another story apart from the

 story which is visual in the sting operation and there may be many

 persons who were beneficiary of such "Cash for Justice". Having considered the rival contentions of the parties,

 we will examine whether it is a fit case where this Court should

 pass an order in the nature of mandamus for lodging a criminal

 case in the matter. Corruption is the biggest enemy and threat for existence

 of our country, as it is eating away and making our democratic set

 up hollow, slowly but steadily entering into every walk of life and

 preventing our country to grow in full bloom. The menace of

 corruption has to be tackled with iron fist. The demon of

 corruption was perceived by members of Constituent Assembly

 and was discussed during debate. It is relevant to quote relevant
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 21/41 portion of the speech given by Mr. Radhakrishnan in the

 Constituent Assembly which reads as follows:- Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 22/41 The fountain of justice cannot be allowed to be polluted

 and it is the duty of the Court to take hard decision to eradicate this

 disease as it may not take the shape of epidemic and pollute the

 foundation of democratic set up itself and it should be nipped in

 the bud at the earliest otherwise it is likely to cause turbulence

 shaking the faith of the people of republic and it may lead to

 destruction of socio-economic-political-system of a healthy,

 wealthy, effective and vibrant society. Corruption in a civilized

 society is a disease like cancer which, if not detected in time, is

 sure to render malignant the polity of the country, leading to

 disastrous consequences. Menace of corruption has been found to

 have increased enormously after first and second world war. At the

 earliest, it was confined to bureaucracy but, its tentacles have

 spread like a virus. Old civilizations have collapsed on account of

 burden of corruption in the administrative set up and it has become

 a big threat to each democratic set up. Some of the quotes on

 corruption by different persons are as follows:- It is termed as plague which is not only contagious but if
 not controlled spreads like a fire in a jungle. Its virus is
 compared with HIV leading to AIDS, being incurable. It
 has also been termed as Royal thievery. The socio- political system exposed to such a dreaded
 communicable disease is likely to crumble under its own
 weight. Corruption is opposed to democracy and social
 order, being not only anti people, but aimed and targeted
 against them. It affects the economy and destroys the
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 24/41 cultural heritage. Unless nipped in the bud at the
 earliest, it is likely to cause turbulence shaking of the
 socio-economic-political system in an otherwise healthy,
 wealthy, effective and vibrating society. 8. The menace of corruption was found to have
 enormously increased by first and second world war
 conditions. The corruption, at the initial stages, was
 considered confined to the bureaucracy who had the
 opportunities to deal with a variety of State largesse
 in the form of contracts, licences and grants. Even
 after the war the opportunities for corruption
 continued as large amounts of Government surplus
 stores were required to be disposed of by the public
 servants. As consequence of the wars the shortage of
 various goods necessitated the imposition of controls
 and extensive schemes of post-war reconstruction
 involving the disbursement of huge sums of money
 which lay in the control of the public servants giving
 them wide discretion with the result of luring them to
 the glittering shine of the wealth and property. In
 order to consolidate and amend the laws relating to
 prevention of corruption and matters connected
 thereto, the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 was
 enacted which was amended from time to time. In the
 year 1988 a new Act on the subject being Act No.49
 of 1988 was enacted with the object of dealing with
 the circumstances, contingencies and shortcomings
 which were noticed in the working and
 implementation of 1947 Act. The law relating to
 prevention of corruption was essentially made to
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 25/41 deal with the public servants, as understood in the
 common parlance but specifically defined in the
 Act." But, the claim of the petitioner is that this Court should

 give direction to lodge criminal case and the same should be

 investigated by the C.B.I. The issue has been considered in the

 case of K. Saravanan Karuppasamy & Anr. Vs. State of Tamil

 Nadu & Ors. reported in (2014) 10 SCC 406 wherein the Court has

 referring to the judgment of the Constitution Bench in the case of State of W.B. & Ors. Vs. Committee for Protection of Democratic

 Rights reported in (2010) 3 SCC 571 said that the power under Article 32 and 226 of the Constitution of India are wide to pass

 order for investigation by any agency in suitable matter but, the

 court must bear in mind certain limitations on the exercise of these

 Constitutional powers. The very plenitude of the power under the said Articles

 requires great caution and restrain in its exercise. Insofar as the

 question of issuing a direction to CBI to conduct investigation in

 particular case is concerned, although no inflexible guidelines can

 be laid down to decide whether or not such power should be

 exercised but time and again it has been reiterated that the power

 should be exercised very cautiously and with circumspection, not

 in a routine manner, thereby should not be asked to investigate for
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 26/41 small matter, only where the incident has national and

 international ramifications or where such an order may be

 necessary for doing complete justice and enforcing the

 fundamental rights. Otherwise CBI would be flooded with large

 number of cases and with limited resources, and it will be very

 difficult to investigate even serious cases. It is relevant to quote

 paragraph no.18 of the aforesaid judgment which reads as

 follows:- Before coming to final view, it will be relevant to

 consider the objection raised by the High Court which has been

 raised in two parts, first part is, locus standi and maintainability

 and second part of the argument is that this case has been brought

 unnecessarily tarnishing the image of judiciary. Firstly, this Court

 will decide the maintainability of the present writ petition which

 has been dealt with in the case of Kishore Samrite (supra) wherein

 the Court has considered different facets such as abuse of process

 of Court and opined that a litigant who attempts to pollute the
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 28/41 stream of justice or who touches the pure fountain of justice with

 tainted hands is not entitled to any relief, interim or final. The

 person must come with clean hand, is an absolute obligation and

 has repeatedly been reiterated by this Court. Wherever a public

 interest is invoked, the Court must examine the petition carefully

 to ensure that there is genuine public interest involved. The stream

 of justice should not be allowed to be polluted by unscrupulous

 litigants and the High Court or the Supreme Court has to maintain

 strictest vigilance over the abuse of the process of court and

 ordinarily meddlesome bystanders should not be granted "visa".

 Many societal pollutants create new problems of unredressed

 grievances and the Court should endure to take cases where the

 justice of the lis well-justifies it. The entire journey of a Judge is to

 discern the truth from the pleadings, documents and arguments of

 the parties, as truth is the basis of the Justice Delivery System. The

 Court does not sit simply as an umpire in a contest between two

 parties and declare at the end of the combat as to who has won and

 who has lost but it has a legal duty of its own, independent of

 parties, to take active role in the proceedings and reach at the truth,

 which is the foundation of administration of justice. Therefore, the

 truth should become the ideal to inspire the courts to pursue. The

 national emblem is based on ethos propounded in
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 29/41 Mandukoupnishad, itself reflects that truth prevails over untruth

 but, it has also been held that the person who is seeking justice

 must come with clean hand, there should not be hide and seek or

 adopt pick and choose policy but, everything should be

 straightway. It is relevant to quote paragraph nos. 31 to 39 which

 reads as follows:- Materialism, opportunism and malicious intent have over-shadowed
 the old ethos of litigative values for small gains.

 32.5. A litigant who attempts to pollute the stream of justice or who
 touches the pure fountain of justice with tainted hands is not entitled
 to any relief, interim or final. 32.6. The Court must ensure that its process is not abused and in
 order to prevent abuse of the process the court, it would be justified
 even in insisting on furnishing of security and in cases of serious
 abuse, the Court would be duty bound to impose heavy costs.

 32.7. Wherever a public interest is invoked, the Court must examine
 the petition carefully to ensure that there is genuine public interest
 involved. The stream of justice should not be allowed to be polluted
 by unscrupulous litigants. 32.8. The Court, especially the Supreme Court, has to maintain
 strictest vigilance over the abuse of the process of court and
 ordinarily meddlesome bystanders should not be granted "visa".
 Many societal pollutants create new problems of unredressed
 grievances and the Court should endure to take cases where the
 justice of the lis well-justifies it. [Refer : Dalip Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors. (2010) 2 SCC 114; Amar
 Singh v. Union of India & Ors. ( 2011) 7 SCC 69 and State of
 Uttaranchal v Balwant Singh Chaufal & Ors. (2010) 3 SCC 402].
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 31/41 33. Access jurisprudence requires Courts to deal with the legitimate
 litigation whatever be its form but decline to exercise jurisdiction, if
 such litigation is an abuse of the process of the Court. In P.S.R.
 Sadhanantham v. Arunachalam & Anr. (1980) 3 SCC 141, the Court
 held: 16. We are thus satisfied that the bogey of busybodies
 blackmailing adversaries through frivolous invocation of Article 136 is chimerical. Access to justice to every bona fide
 seeker is a democratic dimension of remedial jurisprudence
 even as public interest litigation, class action, pro bono
 proceedings, are. We cannot dwell in the home of processual
 obsolescence when our Constitution highlights social justice
 as a goal. We hold that there is no merit in the contentions of
 the writ petitioner and dismiss the petition." 34. It has been consistently stated by this Court that the entire
 journey of a Judge is to discern the truth from the pleadings,
 documents and arguments of the parties, as truth is the basis of the
 Justice Delivery System. Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 32/41 35. With the passage of time, it has been realised that people used to
 feel proud to tell the truth in the Courts, irrespective of the
 consequences but that practice no longer proves true, in all cases.
 The Court does not sit simply as an umpire in a contest between two
 parties and declare at the end of the combat as to who has won and
 who has lost but it has a legal duty of its own, independent of parties,
 to take active role in the proceedings and reach at the truth, which is
 the foundation of administration of justice. Therefore, the truth should
 become the ideal to inspire the courts to pursue. This can be achieved
 by statutorily mandating the Courts to become active seekers of truth.
 To enable the courts to ward off unjustified interference in their
 working, those who indulge in immoral acts like perjury,
 prevarication and motivated falsehood, must be appropriately dealt
 with. The parties must state forthwith sufficient factual details to the
 extent that it reduces the ability to put forward false and exaggerated
 claims and a litigant must approach the Court with clean hands. It is
 the bounden duty of the Court to ensure that dishonesty and any
 attempt to surpass the legal process must be effectively curbed and
 the Court must ensure that there is no wrongful, unauthorised or
 unjust gain to anyone as a result of abuse of the process of the Court.
 One way to curb this tendency is to impose realistic or punitive costs. 36. The party not approaching the Court with clean hands would be
 liable to be non-suited and such party, who has also succeeded in
 polluting the stream of justice by making patently false statements,
 cannot claim relief, especially under Article 136 of the Constitution.
 While approaching the court, a litigant must state correct facts and
 come with clean hands. Where such statement of facts is based on
 some information, the source of such information must also be
 disclosed. Totally misconceived petition amounts to abuse of the
 process of the court and such a litigant is not required to be dealt
 with lightly, as a petition containing misleading and inaccurate
 statement, if filed, to achieve an ulterior purpose amounts to abuse of
 the process of the court. A litigant is bound to make "full and true
 disclosure of facts". (Refer : Tilokchand H.B. Motichand & Ors. v.
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 33/41 Munshi & Anr. [1969 (1) SCC 110]; A. Shanmugam v. Ariya
 Kshatriya Rajakula Vamsathu Madalaya Nandhavana Paripalanai
 Sangam & Anr. [(2012) 6 SCC 430]; Chandra Shashi v. Anil Kumar
 Verma [(1995) SCC 1 421]; Abhyudya Sanstha v. Union of India &
 Ors. [(2011) 6 SCC 145]; State of Madhya Pradesh v. Narmada
 Bachao Andolan & Anr. [(2011) 7 SCC 639]; Kalyaneshwari v. Union
 of India & Anr. [(2011) 3 SCC 287)]. 37. The person seeking equity must do equity. It is not just the clean
 hands, but also clean mind, clean heart and clean objective that are
 the equi-fundamentals of judicious litigation. The legal maxim jure
 naturae aequum est neminem cum alterius detrimento et injuria fieri
 locupletiorem, which means that it is a law of nature that one should
 not be enriched by the loss or injury to another, is the percept for
 Courts. Wide jurisdiction of the court should not become a source of
 abuse of the process of law by the disgruntled litigant. Careful
 exercise is also necessary to ensure that the litigation is genuine, not
 motivated by extraneous considerations and imposes an obligation
 upon the litigant to disclose the true facts and approach the court
 with clean hands. 38. No litigant can play 'hide and seek' with the courts or adopt 'pick
 and choose'. True facts ought to be disclosed as the Court knows law,
 but not facts. One, who does not come with candid facts and clean
 breast cannot hold a writ of the court with soiled hands. Suppression
 or concealment of material facts is impermissible to a litigant or even
 as a technique of advocacy. In such cases, the Court is duty bound to
 discharge rule nisi and such applicant is required to be dealt with for
 contempt of court for abusing the process of the court. { K.D. Sharma
 v. Steel Authority of India Ltd. & Ors. [(2008) 12 SCC 481]. 39. Another settled canon of administration of justice is that no
 litigant should be permitted to misuse the judicial process by filing
 frivolous petitions. No litigant has a right to unlimited drought upon
 the court time and public money in order to get his affairs settled in
 the manner as he wishes. Easy access to justice should not be used as
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 34/41 a licence to file misconceived and frivolous petitions. ( Buddhi Kota
 Subbarao (Dr.) v. K. Parasaran , (1996) 5 SCC 530)."

 These judgments also consider the issue of locus standi.

 In paragraph no.47 and 52, the principle has been culled out in the

 manner that the person who brings a petition even for invocation

 of a fundamental right must be a person having some direct or

 indirect interest in the outcome of the petition on his own behalf or

 on behalf of some person under a disability and/or unable to

 approach the justice delivery system for patent reasons. Still, such

 a person must act bona-fide and without abusing the process of

 law. Where a person is a stranger/unknown to the parties and has

 no interest in the outcome of the litigation, he can hardly claim

 locus-standi to file such petition. There could be cases where a

 public spirited person bona-fide brings petition in relation to

 violation of fundamental rights, particularly in habeas corpus

 petitions, but even in such cases, the person should have some

 demonstrable interest or relationship to the involved person,

 personally or for the benefit of the public at large, in a PIL. But in

 all such cases, it is essential that the petitioner must exhibit bona

 fide, by truthful and cautious exercise of such right. It will be

 relevant to quote paragraph no. 52 of the aforesaid judgment

 which reads as follows:- Still, such a person must act bona fide and without
 abusing the process of law. Where a person is a
 stranger/unknown to the parties and has no interest
 in the outcome of the litigation, he can hardly claim
 locus standi to file such petition. There could be
 cases where a public-spirited person bona fide
 brings petition in relation to violation of
 fundamental rights, particularly in habeas corpus
 petitions, but even in such cases, the person should
 have some demonstrable interest or relationship to
 the involved persons, personally or for the benefit of
 the public at large, in a PIL. But in all such cases, it
 is essential that the petitioner must exhibit bona
 fides, by truthful and cautious exercise of such right.
 The courts would be expected to examine such
 requirement at the threshold of the litigation in
 order to prevent abuse of process of court. In the
 present case, both the appellant and Respondent 8
 are total strangers to the three mentioned
 petitioners. The appellant, in fact, is a resident of
 Madhya Pradesh, belonging to a political party and
 was elected from Constituency Tehsil Lanji in
 District Balaghat at Madhya Pradesh. He has no
 roots in Amethi and, in fact, he was a stranger to
 that place. The appellant as well as Respondent 8
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 36/41 did not even know that the persons on whose behalf
 they have acted as next fried had shifted their
 residence in the year 2010 to Hardoia in District
 Faizabad. They have made false averments in the
 petition and have withheld true facts from the
 Court." Another point that has been raised by the High Court

 that this case has been brought with the sole moto to tarnish the

 image of the judiciary itself and, for that, it has been submitted that

 it is not a public interest litigation rather is a publicity interest

 litigation which has been frowned upon by the Hon'ble Apex

 Court. In order to understand the view of Hon'ble Apex Court in

 the matter of facet of justice delivery system, it would be proper to

 consider the judgment passed in the case of Tehseen Poonawalla

 wherein in paragraph no.101, the Hon'ble Court has given an

 observation that the strength of the judicial process does not lie to

 create fear of a coercive law of contempt rather on the strength of

 respect earned by the Court. The credibility of the judicial process

 is based on its moral authority. It is with that firm belief we should

 not invoke the jurisdiction in contempt in routine manner. But,

 facets and contour of public interest litigation has been dealt in

 paragraph nos. 96 to 98 which reads as follows:- monetary directions by the courts." 98 The misuse of public interest litigation is a serious matter of
 concern for the judicial process. Both this court and the High
 Courts are flooded with litigation and are burdened by
 arrears. Frivolous or motivated petitions, ostensibly invoking
 the public interest detract from the time and attention which
 courts must devote to genuine causes. This court has a long
 list of pending cases where the personal liberty of citizens is
 involved. Those who await trial or the resolution of appeals
 against orders of conviction have a legitimate expectation of
 early justice. It is a travesty of justice for the resources of the
 legal system to be consumed by an avalanche of misdirected
 petitions purportedly filed in the public interest which, upon
 due scrutiny, are found to promote a personal, business or
 political agenda. This has spawned an industry of vested
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 39/41 interests in litigation. There is a grave danger that if this state
 of affairs is allowed to continue, it would seriously denude the
 efficacy of the judicial system by detracting from the ability of
 the court to devote its time and resources to cases which
 legitimately require attention. Worse still, such petitions pose
 a grave danger to the credibility of the judicial process. This
 has the propensity of endangering the credibility of other
 institutions and undermining public faith in democracy and
 the rule of law. This will happen when the agency of the court
 is utilised to settle extra-judicial scores. Business rivalries
 have to be resolved in a competitive market for goods and
 services. Political rivalries have to be resolved in the great
 hall of democracy when the electorate votes its
 representatives in and out of office. Courts resolve disputes
 about legal rights and entitlements. Courts protect the rule of
 law. There is a danger that the judicial process will be
 reduced to a charade, if disputes beyond the ken of legal
 parameters occupy the judicial space." In my view, the petitioner has locus standi to bring this

 petition as he is an advocate of this Court and he has every right

 and duty to protect the institution that too from corruption. This

 writ petition cannot be treated to be publicity interest litigation.

 The counter affidavit shows that on the basis of sting recording, a

 news item in the name of "Cash for Justice" was made viral, has

 become the basis of initiation of departmental proceeding. As has

 been informed, the enquiry proceeding has been completed,

 enquiry report has been submitted and the original CD has been

 handed over to the Enquiry Officer by the person who has done the
 Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 40/41 sting operation with certification of its genuineness. So, in view of

 the fact that on the basis of sting operation, which was made viral,

 the civil court staffs have been proceeded against departmentally,

 on the face of it, it appears that illegal act has been done by those

 who have been found involved. However, this Court does not feel

 it proper to straightway give direction to lodge a criminal case,

 but, in view of the two judgments i.e. in the case of Delhi Judicial

 Service Association Vs. State of Gujarat & Ors. reported in (1991)

 4 SCC 406 and in the case of U.P. Judicial Officers Association

 Vs. Union of India & Ors. reported in (1994) 4 SCC 687 the

 Hon'ble Apex Court has given discretion only to the Chief Justice

 to form an opinion in the matter of lodging of criminal case. As the

 enquiry proceeding has already been completed, the probity lies to

 request Hon'ble the Chief Justice to look into the matter and to

 take decision in the matter of lodging criminal case in connection

 with news item made viral, giving heading "Cash for Justice". In

 such view of the matter, this Court directs that all the material

 should be placed before Hon'ble the Chief Justice who will

 certainly look into the matter as to whether it is as appropriate

 matter which requires lodging of criminal case, looking to the fact

 that sting operation was made viral, became subject matter of

 national debate which requires special attention in the matter. Patna High Court CWJC No.21341 of 2018 dt.14-01-2020 41/41 Before parting with the judgment, we may express our

 view that the sting operation was broadcast on 15.11.2017 and

 much time has elapsed. Now all the materials have been collected

 in course of the departmental proceeding including the compact

 discs (CDs) which have been handed over in August, 2019 by the

 person concerned along with the certificate of genuineness. Thus,

 all the material should be placed before Hon'ble the Chief Justice

 and this Court requests Hon'ble the Chief Justice to take a decision

 accordingly with respect to lodging of a criminal case. With the aforementioned observation and direction, this

 writ application is disposed of. (Shivaji Pandey, J)

 Partha Sarthy, J : I agree. (Partha Sarthy, J)
rishi/-