IN THE HIGH COURT OF PUNJAB & HARYANA AT CHANDIGARH

 Civil Revision No.364 of 2012
 Reserved on : 13.11.2014
 Date of decision: 26.11.2014

Satbir
 ....Petitioner

 Versus

Rameshwar and others ...Respondents

CORAM: HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE G.S.SANDHAWALIA

Present: Mr. Mani Ram Verma, Advocate for the petitioner. Mr. Jatin Hans,Advocate for respondent No.1. ****
G.S.Sandhawalia J. 1. The present revision petition filed under Article 227 of the

Constitution of India by the petitioner/defendant is directed against the order of

the Addl. District Judge, Bhiwani dated 25.11.2011 whereby the application for

leading additional evidence has been rejected. 2. The reasoning given by the Lower Appellate Court is that the

evidence was in the knowledge of the appellant and the Sub Registrar not being

an attesting witness of the will but being only the registering authority was not

necessary witness to prove the will in question. The second ground was that the

appellant could not be allowed to fill up the lacuna in the case by way of

application filed under Order 41 Rule 27 CPC . 3. The suit for declaration was filed by respondent no.1-Rameshwar

wherein he sought his right in the land in dispute on the strength of the parties

being sons of Bhim Singh. Challenge was made to the registered will dated

17.4.2002 allegedly executed by Bhim Singh who died on 23.1.2006 in favour of

the present petitioner on the ground of fraud and misrepresentation and that the

property was ancestral and plaintiff had a birth right in the same. PRADEEP KUMAR ARORA
 2014.11.27 09:59
 I attest to the accuracy and integrity
 of this document
 Punjab and Haryana High Court,
 Chandigarh Civil Revision No.364 of 2012 -2- **** 4. The suit was contested by the present petitioner on the ground that

the plaintiff was living separately and land was not ancestral and received in

family settlement and the plaintiff never served his father and mother who had

been living separately. The plea taken was that the registered will was duly

executed by Bhim Singh in full senses and in the presence of witnesses. The

will in question was attested by Attar Singh who appeared as DW-3 and Jai Lal,

Numberdar who had died. The deed writer was never produced in evidence and

on account of the attesting witness DW-3 not deposing that testator had signed

on the will in his presence and after knowing its contents, the trial Court went on

to hold that the will in question did not stand proved. 5. The submission of the counsel for the defendants/petitioners that

once the question of fraud was being raised the onus was upon the plaintiff

which was rejected by holding that the burden of proof would be upon the

propounder of the will. Accordingly, the suit land was held to be inherited by way

of natural succession and the registered will was set aside. 6. The appeal was filed by the present petitioner wherein the

application for additional evidence under Order 41 Rule 27 CPC was filed by

taking the plea that the will was registered by Om Parkash Godara, Sub

Registrar who attested the registered will at Bawani Khera. The said officer

could not be examined on behalf of the appellant/defendant who wanted to

prove the registration of the will and the applicant had come to know that he was

now posted at Tosham and therefore, his evidence as a witness to the appellant

was very much material and would hep the Court to arrive at a just conclusion.

No issue had been framed by the Court to prove the execution and registration

of the will and now onus of the same was shifted upon the appellant. 7. The application was resisted by filing the reply that it was malafide

and an attempt to delay the disposal of the appeal and there was neither any
 PRADEEP KUMAR ARORA
 2014.11.27 09:59
 I attest to the accuracy and integrity
issue with regard to execution of the will and burden of proof was upon the
 of this document
 Punjab and Haryana High Court,
 Chandigarh Civil Revision No.364 of 2012 -3- ****

appellant. The production of the witness was not necessary for the just decision

of the case. The ingredients of Order 41 Rule 27 CPC were not fulfilled and no

additional evidence was necessary for just decision of the appeal and the Sub

Registrar was neither attesting witness nor the scribe of the will. The application

as noticed above was dismissed by the Lower Appellate Court on the ground

that the evidence sought to be produced was in the knowledge of the appellant

and it was not just and necessary for the decision of the case. 8. Counsel for the petitioner has vehemently submitted that the will

was registered and due to the fault of the counsel since the affidavit was not in

proper form whereby examination-in-chief had been tendered, the parties should

not be prejudiced. Accordingly, it is submitted that justice oriented approach

should be taken rather than the strict rigour of law. Accordingly, it is submitted

that the Sub Registrar would show under which circumstances the will was

registered. 9. Counsel for the respondent on the other hand has submitted that

the provisions of Order 41 Rule 27 CPC cannot be used to fill up the lacuna and

once the attesting witness had not deposed as per the provisions of Section 63 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 and Section 68 of the Indian Succession Act,

1925 the Lower Appellate Court was well justified in rejecting the application. 10. A perusal of the facts in question would go on to show that the

dispute is interse the brothers regarding the property which was to go to them on

the basis of death of their father. The registered will is subject matter of

challenge interse the parties. The plaintiff had pleaded that the will was

executed by way of fraud as Bhim Singh was in jail and had come out and

during interim period the will was executed whereas case of the appellant is that

he was looking after his father and had also contributed towards costs of

criminal litigation and the will was a genuine document which was registered. PRADEEP KUMAR ARORA
 2014.11.27 09:59
 I attest to the accuracy and integrity
The trial Court did not frame any specific issue regarding the validity of the will,
 of this document
 Punjab and Haryana High Court,
 Chandigarh Civil Revision No.364 of 2012 -4- ****

whether the same was executed in suspicious circumstances even though the

plaintiff had set up the challenge to the will on various grounds. The will is

solemn document which normally is to be proved by the propounder. It is not

necessary to be registered but in case where it has been, it would stand on a

higher pedestal than an unregistered will and it is the duty of the Court to see

whether the will had been validly executed. The petitioner had produced the

attesting witness who was alive and in an effort to prove the will. The evidence

of the said witness had been placed on record which of course the Appellate

Court will examine in true prospective since the decision of the trial Court is also

subject matter of appeal yet and therefore, it is not for this Court to opine upon

the said deposition of the attesting witness namely Attar Singh DW-3. 11. The provisions of Order 41 Rule 27 CPC provide apart from the

evidence which was not in the knowledge of the parties and the evidence which

is necessary for the just decision of the case in any form oral or documentary

can be produced in order to enable the Court to pronounce judgment and for any

other substantial cause. In the present case, the factum of the registered will

having been executed under what circumstances and whether it was executed

by fraud or willingly by the testator while on bail could well be deposed by the

Sub Registrar who is now sought to be examined. The purpose of Order 41

Rule 27 CPC is that the Court can render complete justice interse the parties

and to ensure that substantial cause which is a term of wide discretion for the

purpose to achieve the ends of justice can be resorted to by the Appellate Court

which in the present case it has failed to exercise its power by virtue of

additional evidence. No new case is being set up by the appellant and it was

only necessary for the Court to decide the issue after taking into consideration

the deposition of the said Sub Registrar who is now sought to be examined. 12. Under Section 60 of the Registration Act, 1908 it is the duty of the
 PRADEEP KUMAR ARORA
 2014.11.27 09:59
 I attest to the accuracy and integrity
registering officer that the documents which have been registered is done by the
 of this document
 Punjab and Haryana High Court,
 Chandigarh Civil Revision No.364 of 2012 -5- ****

proper person and is who competent to act. Accordingly, this Court is of the

opinion that the Appellate Court has failed to exercise jurisdiction vested in it by

law since the Sub Registrar could validly depose about the execution of the will

by Bhim Singh in his presence and endorsement which is made that the will was

read over and there is a presumption of truth to the registered document. The

evidence of the Sub Registrar in such circumstances in the opinion of this Court

would be just and necessary to settle the dispute between the brothers. 13. The other ground on which the present revision petition is to be

allowed is that it is settled principle of law that application for additional

evidence is to be heard and decided at the time of hearing of main appeal so

that the Appellate Court can apply its mind to the issue in controversy in detail

which the Lower Appellate Court failed to do. Reliance can be placed upon the

judgment of the Apex Court in State of Rajasthan Vs. T. Sahani 2001(1) PLR 294. The relevant observations reads as under:- 14. Accordingly keeping in mind the said discussion, the present

petition is allowed. The order dated 25.11.2011 is set aside and the application

for additional evidence filed by the petitioner is allowed. The Lower Appellate

Court shall take necessary steps for summoning of witness in question.