% 09.05.2024 1. This is an application filed on behalf of the applicant under Section
 438 Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail in case FIR No. 45/2024 dated
 26.02.2024, under Sections 420 / 328 / 120B / 34 IPC and Sections 63 / 65 of
 Copyright Act, 1954, registered at PS: Crime Branch. 2. Status report has been handed over in Court and is taken on record. 3. The case of the prosecution is that on 26.02.2024 secret information
 was received at the office of AGS, Crime Branch, Dwarka, Delhi about
 fake/counterfeit medicines being supplied by Upkar @ Manni, Mukesh
 Kumar and their associates in Delhi/NCR to various medical stores using
 labels of reputed pharmaceutical companies. The spurious medicines were
 mainly life saving drugs such as (1) Gluconorm G1 (for sugar patients)
 under the label of Lupin Ltd.; (2) Ultracet (for sugar patients) under the label
 of Johnson & Johnson; and (3) Amaryl, M1 & M2 (for sugar patients) under
 the label of Sanofi. On the basis of secret information, an EECO Car bearing
 registration no. DL-2CAN-0239 was intercepted at ITO bridge and the BAIL APPLN. 1375/2024 Page 1 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/05/2024 at 21:29:26
 applicant who was driving the car was apprehended with co-accused Upkar
 Singh and from the car 4 boxes and 1 big black color polythene were
 recovered containing medicines such as ULTRACET, GLUCONORM G1,
 Amaryl1M and Defcort-6. During the raid, Director, Corporate Affairs,
 Lupin Ltd. and the Attorney of Johnson & Johnson gave their inputs that the
 medicines were not genuine and the blister packs were not original and
 seemed to be counterfeit. 4. It is stated in the Status Report that during investigation, 10 persons
 were arrested and during interrogation, they confessed their active
 involvement in the crime. The counterfeit medicines and cash recovered
 were seized under a Seizure Memo. Investigation revealed that Upkar Singh
 is a person who supplies medicines to medical stores in Delhi, which he
 procures from Abdul Bashit. Jaspreet Singh helped Upkar Singh in supply of
 the medicines as a driver. Mukesh Kumar was also receiving the counterfeit
 medicines from Upkar Singh and supplying them to the medical stores as
 genuine medicines. Abdul Bashit runs a medical store at Geeta Colony and
 the license is in the name of accused Danyal Ali, who purchased medicines
 from Bhagirath Palace and was supplying them to the local doctors in the
 area. Counterfeit Ultracet tablets were recovered from the house of Parvez,
 who initially stated that he used to receive empty boxes and medicines from
 one Salman, R/o Bulandshahar, UP, to mislead the investigation. Later on,
 however, on being confronted with the WhatsApp chats in his mobile phone,
 he disclosed the name of one Nawazish @ Firoz/applicant herein. Thereafter
 raids were conducted on 29.02.2024 in search of Nawazish, who was
 absconding. During PC remand of Surender Malik, he also named
 Nawazish. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/05/2024 at 21:29:26 5. It is stated that there are two kingpins and masterminds of the
 counterfeit medicines scam, namely Vikas Chauhan and Surender Malik.
 Two full-fledged factories have been set up at Ghaziabad and Shamli owned
 by the two persons respectively, where the fake and counterfeit medicines
 are manufactured under the labels of well-known and reputed
 pharmaceutical companies. It is stated that the accused persons are not only
 playing with the lives of people by selling spurious medicines, particularly
 life saving drugs but are also illegally using the names, logos and trademarks
 of pharma companies, such as Lupin Ltd. and Johnson & Johnson. Surender
 Malik was apprehended in his village and interrogated and it was found that
 he was the main person who negotiated with Naresh Kumar to get the
 premises of Newgen Biotech Pvt. Ltd. on rent. The counterfeit medicines
 were sent from Sunder Nagar through Anil Kumar to the applicant and it
 was disclosed that Ultracet Tablets and Monocef-O were supplied to the
 applicant. Therefore, according to the prosecution, the main receiver and
 supplier of the fake/counterfeit medicines is the applicant, who is stated to
 be absconding. Notice under Section 41A Cr.P.C. was issued to the
 applicant on 17.03.2024 to join investigation on 21.03.2024 but he failed to
 join. Report on the Non-Bailable Warrants was filed before the Trial Court
 on 15.04.2024, on the basis of which process under Section 82 Cr.P.C. was
 initiated against the applicant and the next date before the Trial Court is
 22.06.2024. 6. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that applicant is innocent
 and has been falsely implicated. He has no connection with the alleged
 crime. The Investigating Officer had not investigated the case properly.
 Heavy reliance is placed in the Status Report on WhatsApp chats between BAIL APPLN. 1375/2024 Page 3 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/05/2024 at 21:29:27
 the applicant and co-accused persons but as a matter of fact applicant has
 never used the said mobile number(s). Stand of the prosecution that
 applicant is not joining investigation is false as no notice was received by
 the applicant under Section 41A on 17.03.2024 as alleged or any other date.
 Applicant has clean antecedents and has never been involved in any crime,
 least of all, sale or distribution of counterfeit medicines. Applicant is a
 young boy and his old-aged mother is totally dependent on him as he is the
 sole earning member of the family. It is urged that the applicant is ready and
 willing to join investigation on any condition that may be imposed by the
 Court. 7. Per contra, learned APP strenuously opposes the bail application on
 the ground that the allegations are serious and grave. Applicant with his
 associates has been selling counterfeit/spurious life-saving drugs and putting
 the lives of the people at peril. What has come to light is only the tip of
 iceberg and the entire racket involved in the sale of spurious medicines is to
 be unearthed including the other people involved and the medical stores
 where such medicines are being sold. Therefore, custodial interrogation of
 the applicant is required. 8. Heard counsel for the applicant and the learned APP for the State. 9. Succinctly put, the genesis of the present FIR is a secret information
 received on 26.02.2024 that some persons were manufacturing/selling
 counterfeit medicines. Based on this information, 3 raiding teams were
 constituted. EECO car bearing Registration No. DL-2CAN-0239 was
 intercepted at ITO Bridge and the applicant who was driving the car and co-
 accused Upkar Singh who was also seated in the car were apprehended.
 From the car allegedly 4 boxes and a polyethene bag containing BAIL APPLN. 1375/2024 Page 4 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/05/2024 at 21:29:27
 counterfeit/spurious medicines were recovered. Representatives from
 reputed pharmaceutical companies were associated with the initial stage of
 investigation to verify the genuineness of the medicines recovered.
 Investigation led to huge recovery of counterfeit medicines, raw material
 and machinery used in the manufacture of these medicines. Name of the
 applicant also surfaced in the statement of co-accused Parvez as also Naresh,
 the person who gave one of the premises used to manufacture counterfeit
 medicines, on rent. Despite repeated notices under Section 41A Cr.P.C.
 issued by the Investigating Officer, applicant did not join investigation and
 as stated in the Status Report, after issuance of NBWs, process under Section 82 Cr.P.C. has been initiated against the applicant. 10. There is no doubt that the allegations are serious. Manufacturing,
 selling or trading in spurious medicines is a crime against society as a
 whole, and in this case going by the allegations, the counterfeit medicines
 are life-saving drugs and since the medicines are allegedly being sold under
 the labels of reputed pharmaceutical companies, the chances of the
 medicines being passed off as genuine, are higher. In Shri Gurbaksh Singh
 Sibbia and Others v. State of Punjab , (1980) 2 SCC 565, the Constitution
 Bench of the Supreme Court while considering the question of a balance
 between personal liberty and investigational powers of the police, observed
 that the nature and seriousness of the charges; events leading up to the
 charges; apprehension of the applicant fleeing from justice; and larger
 interest of the public are relevant factors which must be kept in mind by the
 Court, while granting or denying anticipatory bail. 11. In Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre v. State of Maharashtra and
 Others , (2011) 1 SCC 694, the Supreme Court referring to and relying on BAIL APPLN. 1375/2024 Page 5 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/05/2024 at 21:29:27
 the judgment of the Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra)
 observed as follows:- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/05/2024 at 21:29:27 (ix) The court to consider reasonable apprehension of tampering of
 the witness or apprehension of threat to the complainant; (x) Frivolity in prosecution should always be considered and it is only
 the element of genuineness that shall have to be considered in the
 matter of grant of bail and in the event of there being some doubt as to
 the genuineness of the prosecution, in the normal course of events, the
 accused is entitled to an order of bail." 12. Factors to be taken into account while considering grant of
 anticipatory bail application have been reiterated by the Supreme Court in
 the case of Sumitha Pradeep v. Arun Kumar C.K. and Another , 2022 SCC
 OnLine SC 1529 and are: (a) prima facie case against the accused; (b)
 nature of offence; and (c) severity of the punishment. This Court in Haresh
 Kumar Choudhary v. State (NCT of Delhi ), 2023 SCC OnLine Del 1877,
 relying on the observations of the Supreme Court in State Rep. By The
 C.B.I. v. Anil Sharma, (1997) 7 SCC 187, dismissed the anticipatory bail
 application on the ground that custodial interrogation of the applicant was
 required. Relevant passage from the judgment of the Supreme Court in Anil
 Sharma (supra) is as follows:- (emphasis supplied) BAIL APPLN. 1375/2024 Page 7 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/05/2024 at 21:29:27 13. The investigation is still at the nascent and embryonic stage and the
 applicant is required for custodial interrogation to unearth the huge scam
 relating to manufacture and sale of spurious medicines. In view of the facts
 and circumstances brought forth by the prosecution and keeping in mind the
 parameters for grant of pre-arrest bail perspicuously laid down by the
 Supreme Court in the aforementioned judgements, this Court is not inclined
 to exercise the discretionary jurisdiction and grant bail to the applicant. 14. The application is dismissed. 15. It is made clear that nothing stated in this order shall be construed as
 an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. JYOTI SINGH, J
 MAY 9, 2024/DU/B.S. Rohella BAIL APPLN. 1375/2024 Page 8 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 13/05/2024 at 21:29:27