"That to palm off a young woman as belonging to a caste
 different to the one to which she really belongs, with the
 object of obtaining money, amounts to the offence of
 cheating by personation as defined in Section 416 of the
 Penal Code, 1860, which must be read in the light of the
 preceding Section 415." 27. A similar view was taken in Delhi Race Club (supra)

wherein it was observed: 37. Further, in both the aforesaid sections, mens rea, i.e.
 intention to defraud or dishonest intention, must be
 present, and in the case of cheating, it must be there from
 the very beginning or inception. 28. Therefore, it is to be determined whether these

ingredients are satisfied by the allegations contained in the FIR

or not. 2025:HHC:16349 29. It was held in Bharateesh Reddy v. Ramesh

Ranganathan , (2022) 16 SCC 210: 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1061 that a

breach of contract will not amount to fraud. It was observed on

page 215: 30. This position was reiterated in Sarabjit Kaur v. State

of Punjab , (2023) 5 SCC 360: 2023 SCC OnLine SC 210 wherein it

was observed on page 363: 31. The gist of the allegations made in the FIR is that the

petitioners developed a P&G Connect + Develop Programme

promising to collaborate with the innovators for mutual value. 2025:HHC:16349

The informant submitted his innovation as per the terms and

conditions of the programme. The petitioners showed their

disinclination to pursue the partnership and thereafter used the

technology/process submitted by the informant. Prima facie,

these allegations show that the petitioners had invited the

informant to collaborate with the promise to enter into a

partnership. They refused to proceed further with the

partnership but used the process submitted by the informant. These allegations show that a false promise of collaboration was

made to the informant. The informant was induced to deliver

the innovation which he would not have done but for the

promise of collaboration made to him, and in this manner, the

petitioners gained knowledge of the process developed by the

informant while the informant lost the money promised to him

by way of collaboration. These facts satisfy the ingredients of

cheating. 32. It was submitted that the petitioners never used the

technology/process submitted by the informant, the process

used by the petitioners is entirely different from the process

patented by the informant. These are the questions of fact

which require investigation. It was laid down by the Hon'ble 39 2025:HHC:16349

Supreme Court in Dharambeer Kumar Singh v. State of Jharkhand ,

(2025) 1 SCC 392: 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1894 that the Court cannot

conduct a mini-trial while exercising jurisdiction under section

482 of CrPC. It was observed on page 397: 33. It was submitted that the allegations in the FIR are

false. The petitioners never used the process of the informant. This submission will not help the petitioners. This Court, while

exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.P.C., has to take

the allegations in the FIR as correct. This position was laid down 40 2025:HHC:16349

by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Punit Beriwala v. State (NCT of

Delhi ), 2025 SCC OnLine SC 983, wherein it was observed: - 34. It was laid down in Maneesha Yadav v. State of U.P. ,

2024 SCC OnLine SC 643, that the Court exercising inherent

jurisdiction to quash the FIR cannot go into the truthfulness or

otherwise of the allegations. It was observed: - 35. Therefore, this Court refrains from conducting any

inquiry into the truthfulness or otherwise of the allegations and

leaves the matter to the Investigating Officer to do so. 2025:HHC:16349 36. It was submitted that the dispute between the parties

 was civil, and the registration of the FIR was impermissible. There can be no dispute with the proposition of law that the civil

 dispute cannot be turned into criminal proceedings1, however, it

 does not mean that no civil action can give rise to a criminal

 action. Professor Glanville Williams explained in his celebrated

 book Learning the Law (Tenth Edition, Stevens and Sons) that the

 facts by themselves cannot determine civil or criminal liability. The same set of facts may give rise to criminal or civil liability. The distinction between the two is not the nature of the act but

 the nature of the proceedings that are taken to seek redressal. It

 was observed: 37. The Hon'ble Supreme Court also held in Randheer

Singh v. State of U.P. , (2021) 14 SCC 626: 2021 SCC OnLine SC 942,

that a given set of facts may make out a civil wrong, as well as, 44 2025:HHC:16349

the criminal offence and mere availability of civil remedies is no

ground to quash the criminal proceedings. It was observed: 38. A similar view was taken in V.R. Dalal v. Yougendra

Naranji Thakkar , (2008) 15 SCC 625, wherein it was observed: - 39. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Puneet Beriwala Vs. State 2025 SCC OnLine SC 983 that simply

because a remedy is provided under the civil law cannot lead to

an inference that resort cannot be had to the criminal law or

that the civil law remedy is the only remedy available to the

parties. It was observed: 40. Hence, the mere fact that the informant has a

remedy under the Patent Act to sue for the breach of the patent

will not take away the remedy available under the criminal law. 41. It was submitted that there is a delay in reporting the

matter to the police and the F.I.R. is liable to be quashed due to

the delay. This submission is not acceptable. It was laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Punit Beriwala (supra), that the F.I.R. cannot be quashed on the ground of delay. It was observed: 42. It was submitted that the Courts at Kandaghat had no

jurisdiction to hear and entertain the application. The police at

Kandaghat also do not have the territorial jurisdiction to

investigate the matter. Hence, the FIR is liable to be quashed. This submission is not acceptable. It was laid down by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Satvinder Kaur v. State (Govt. of NCT of

Delhi ), (1999) 8 SCC 728 that SHO has a statutory authority to

investigate any cognizable offence and the investigation cannot

be quashed on the ground of lack of territorial jurisdiction. It

was observed:- 9. This would be clear from the following discussion. Section 156 of the Criminal Procedure Code empowers
 the police officer to investigate any cognizable
 offence. It reads as under: 2025:HHC:16349

 (3) Any Magistrate empowered under Section 190
 may order such an investigation as above- mentioned." 10. It is true that territorial jurisdiction is also prescribed
under sub-section (1) to the extent that the officer can
investigate any cognizable case in which a court having
jurisdiction over the local area within the limits of such
police station would have the power to enquire into or try
under the provisions of Chapter XIII. However, sub-
section (2) makes the position clear by providing that no
proceeding of a police officer in any such case shall at any
stage be called into question on the ground that the case
was one which such officer was not empowered to
investigate. After the investigation is completed, the
result of such investigation is required to be submitted as
provided under Sections 168, 169 and 170. Section 170
specifically provides that if, upon an investigation, it
appears to the officer in charge of the police station that
there is sufficient evidence or reasonable ground of
suspicion to justify the forwarding of the accused to a
Magistrate, such officer shall forward the accused under
custody to a Magistrate empowered to take cognizance of
the offence upon a police report and to try the accused or
commit for trial. Further, if the investigating officer
arrives at the conclusion that the crime was not
committed within the territorial jurisdiction of the police
station, then the FIR can be forwarded to the police
station having jurisdiction over the area in which the
crime was committed. But this would not mean that in a
case which requires investigation, the police officer can
refuse to record the FIR and/or investigate it. 11. Chapter XIII of the Code provides for "jurisdiction of
the criminal courts in enquiries and trials". It is to be
stated that under the said chapter, there are various
provisions which empower the court for enquiry or trial
of a criminal case and that there is no absolute
prohibition that the offence committed beyond the local
territorial jurisdiction cannot be investigated, enquired 49 2025:HHC:16349

or tried. This would be clear by referring to Sections 177
to 188. For our purpose, it would suffice to refer only to
Sections 177 and 178, which are as under: 12. A reading of the aforesaid sections would make it
clear that Section 177 provides for an "ordinary" place of
enquiry or trial. Section 178, inter alia, provides for place
of enquiry or trial when it is uncertain in which of several
local areas an offence was committed or where the
offence was committed partly in one local area and partly
in another and where it consisted of several acts done in
different local areas, it could be enquired into or tried by
a court having jurisdiction over any of such local areas.
Hence, at the stage of investigation, it cannot be held
that the SHO does not have territorial jurisdiction to
investigate the crime. 13. This Court in State of W.B. v. S.N. Basak [AIR 1963 SC
447 : (1963) 2 SCR 52] dealt with a similar contention
wherein the High Court had held that the statutory
powers of investigation given to the police under Chapter
XIV were not available in respect of an offence triable 50 2025:HHC:16349

under the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment
(Special Courts) Act, 1949 and hence the investigation
was without jurisdiction. Reversing the said finding, it
was held thus: 14. Further, the legal position is well settled that if an
offence is disclosed, the court will not normally interfere
with an investigation into the case and will permit an
investigation into the offence alleged to be completed. If
the FIR, prima facie, discloses the commission of an
offence, the court does not normally stop the
investigation, for, to do so would be to trench upon the
lawful power of the police to investigate into cognizable
offences. [ State of W.B. v. Swapan Kumar Guha , (1982) 1
SCC 561: 1982 SCC (Cri) 283] It is also settled by a long
course of decisions of this Court that for the purpose of
exercising its power under Section 482 CrPC to quash an
FIR or a complaint, the High Court would have to proceed
entirely on the basis of the allegations made in the
complaint or the documents accompanying the same per
se; it has no jurisdiction to examine the correctness or
otherwise of the allegations. [ Pratibha Rani v. Suraj
Kumar , (1985) 2 SCC 370, 395 : 1985 SCC (Cri) 180] 15. Hence, in the present case, the High Court committed
a grave error in accepting the contention of the 52 2025:HHC:16349

 respondent that the investigating officer had no
 jurisdiction to investigate the matters on the alleged
 ground that no part of the offence was committed within
 the territorial jurisdiction of the police station at Delhi.
 The appreciation of the evidence is the function of the
 courts when seized of the matter. At the stage of the
 investigation, the material collected by an investigating
 officer cannot be judicially scrutinised for arriving at a
 conclusion that the police station officer of a particular
 police station would not have territorial jurisdiction. In
 any case, it has to be stated that in view of Section 178(c) of the Criminal Procedure Code, when it is uncertain in
 which of the several local areas an offence was
 committed, or where it consists of several acts done in
 different local areas, the said offence can be enquired
 into or tried by a court having jurisdiction over any of
 such local areas. Therefore, to say at the stage of the
 investigation that the SHO, Police Station Paschim Vihar,
 New Delhi, was not having territorial jurisdiction is, on
 the face of it, illegal and erroneous. That apart, Section
 156(2) contains an embargo that no proceeding of a
 police officer shall be challenged on the ground that he
 has no territorial power to investigate. The High Court
 has completely overlooked the said embargo when it
 entertained the petition of Respondent 2 on the ground
 of want of territorial jurisdiction. 43. It was held in Rasiklal Dalpatram Thakkar v. State of

Gujarat , (2010) 1 SCC 1, that once an investigation is commenced

under Section 156(1), it cannot be interrupted on the ground

that the Police Officer was not empowered. It was observed:- 2025:HHC:16349

section (2) of Section 156 ensures that once an investigation
is commenced under sub-section (1), the same is not
interrupted on the ground that the police officer was not
empowered under the section to investigate. It is in the
nature of a "savings clause" in respect of investigations
undertaken in respect of cognizable offences. In addition to
the powers vested in a Magistrate empowered under Section
190 CrPC to order an investigation under sub-section (1) of Section 202 CrPC, sub-section (3) of Section 156 also
empowers such Magistrate to order an investigation on a
complaint filed before him. 26. In the instant case, the stage contemplated under Section 181(4) CrPC has not yet been reached. Prior to
taking cognizance on the complaint filed by the Bank, the
learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Ahmedabad had
directed an inquiry under Section 156(3) CrPC and as it
appears, a final report was submitted by the investigating
agency entrusted with the investigation stating that since
the alleged transactions had taken place within the
territorial limits of the city of Mumbai, no cause of action
had arisen in the State of Gujarat and therefore, the
investigation should be transferred to the police agency in
Mumbai. There seems to be little doubt that the Economic
Offences Wing, State CID (Crime), which had been
entrusted with the investigation, had, upon initial
inquiries, recommended that the investigation be
transferred to the police agency of Mumbai. 27. In our view, both the trial court as well as the Bombay
High Court had correctly interpreted the provisions of Section 156 CrPC to hold that it was not within the
jurisdiction of the investigating agency to refrain itself
from holding a proper and complete investigation merely
upon arriving at a conclusion that the offences had been
committed beyond its territorial jurisdiction. 28. A glance at the material before the Magistrate would
indicate that the major part of the loan transaction had, in
fact, taken place in the State of Gujarat and that having
regard to the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 156 CrPC, the proceedings of the investigation could not be 54 2025:HHC:16349

questioned on the ground of jurisdiction of the officer to
conduct such investigation. It was open to the learned
Magistrate to direct an investigation under Section 156(3) CrPC without taking cognizance on the complaint and
where an investigation is undertaken at the instance of the
Magistrate, a police officer empowered under sub-section
(1) of Section 156 is bound, except in specific and specially
exceptional cases, to conduct such an investigation even if
he was of the view that he did not have jurisdiction to
investigate the matter. 29. Having regard to the law in existence today, we are
unable to accept Mr Syed's submissions that the High Court
had erred in upholding the order of the learned trial Judge
when the entire cause of action in respect of the offence had
allegedly arisen outside the State of Gujarat. We are also
unable to accept the submission that it was for the
investigating officer in the course of the investigation to
decide whether a particular court had jurisdiction to
entertain a complaint or not. 30. It is the settled law that the complaint made in a
criminal case follows the place where the cause arises, but
the distinguishing feature in the instant case is that the
stage of taking cognisance was yet to arrive. The
investigating agency was required to place the facts elicited
during the investigation before the court in order to enable
the court to come to a conclusion as to whether it had
jurisdiction to entertain the complaint or not. Without
conducting such an investigation, it was improper on the
part of the investigating agency to forward its report with
the observation that since the entire cause of action for the
alleged offence had purportedly arisen in the city of
Mumbai within the State of Maharashtra, the investigation
should be transferred to the police station concerned in
Mumbai. 31. Section 156(3) CrPC contemplates a stage where the
learned Magistrate is not convinced as to whether the
process should be based on the facts disclosed in the
complaint. Once the facts are received, it is for the
Magistrate to decide his next course of action. In this case, 55 2025:HHC:16349

there are materials to show that the appellant had filed his
application for a loan with the Head Office of the Bank at
Ahmedabad and that the processing and the sanction of the
loan was also done in Ahmedabad which clearly indicates
that the major part of the cause of action for the complaints
arose within the jurisdiction of the Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate, Ahmedabad. It was not, therefore, desirable on
the part of the investigating agency to make an observation
that it did not have territorial jurisdiction to proceed with
the investigation, which was required to be transferred to
the police station having jurisdiction to do so. 32. On the materials before him, the learned Magistrate was
fully justified in rejecting the final report submitted by the
Economic Offences Wing, State CID (Crime), and to order a
fresh investigation into the allegations made on behalf of
the Bank. The High Court, therefore, did not commit any
error in upholding the views expressed by the trial court. As
mentioned hereinbefore, Section 181(4) CrPC deals with the
court's powers to inquire into or try an offence of criminal
misappropriation or a criminal breach of trust if the same
has been committed or any part of the property, which is
the subject of the offence, is received or retained within the
local jurisdiction of the said court. 33. The various decisions cited by Mr Syed, and in particular
the decision in Satvinder Kaur case [(1999) 8 SCC 728: 1999
SCC (Cri) 1503] provide an insight into the views held by the
Supreme Court on the accepted position that the
investigating officer was entitled to transfer an
investigation to a police station having jurisdiction to
conduct the same. The said question is not in issue before
us and as indicated hereinbefore, we are only required to
consider whether the investigating officer in respect of an
investigation undertaken under Section 156(3) CrPC can file
a report stating that he had no jurisdiction to investigate
into the complaint as the entire cause of action had arisen
outside his jurisdiction despite there being material
available to the contrary. The answer, in our view, is in
negative and we are of the firm view that the powers vested
in the investigating authorities, under Section 156(1) CrPC,
did not restrict the jurisdiction of the investigating agency 56 2025:HHC:16349

 to investigate into a complaint even if it did not have
 territorial jurisdiction to do so. Unlike in other cases, it was
 for the court to decide whether it had jurisdiction to
 entertain the complaint as and when the entire facts were
 placed before it." 44. Therefore, the FIR cannot be quashed on the ground

that the Police at Kandaghat have no territorial jurisdiction over

the matter. 45. No other point was urged. 46. The allegations in the FIR, if believed to be correct,

prima facie show the offence of cheating, and it is impermissible

to quash the same. Therefore, the present petition fails, and the

same is dismissed. 47. The observations made herein before shall remain

confined to the disposal of the petition and will have no bearing

whatsoever on the merits of the case. ( Rakesh Kainthla )
 28 May 2025
 th
 Judge
 (Rupsi)