10. The chargesheet also refers to Section 406 of the IPC, but
without pointing out how the ingredients of said section are
satisfied. No details and particulars are mentioned. There are
decisions which hold that the same act or transaction cannot result
in an offence of cheating and criminal breach of trust
simultaneously.10 For the offence of cheating, dishonest intention
must exist at the inception of the transaction, whereas, in case of
criminal breach of trust there must exist a relationship between the
parties whereby one party entrusts another with the property as per 7 law, albeit dishonest intention comes later. In this case entrustment
 is missing, in fact it is not even alleged. It is a case of sale of goods.
 The chargesheet does refer to Section 506 of the IPC relying upon the
 averments in the complaint. However, no details and particulars are
 given, when and on which date and place the threats were given.
 Without the said details and particulars, it is apparent to us, that
 these allegations of threats etc. have been made only with an intent
 to activate police machinery for recovery of money." 8. In Usha Chakraborty v. State of W.B.3 , the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 observed the following:- ... Offence punishable under Section 420 , IPC. To constitute the said offence there must be deception i.e., the
 accused must have deceived someone; that by such deception the
 accused must induce a person (i) to deliver any property; or (ii) to
 make, alter, destroy a whole or part of the valuable security or
 anything which is signed or sealed and which is capable of being
 converted into a valuable property; or (iii) that the accused must
 have done so dishonestly. The offence punishable under Section 120B , IPC, to constitute criminal conspiracy, there must be

 3 2023 SCC OnLine SC 90 8 agreement between two or more persons. The agreement should be
to do or cause to be done some illegal act, or some act which is not
illegal, by illegal means, provided that where the agreement is other
than one to commit an offence, the prosecution must further prove; or (iv) that some act besides the agreement was done by or more of the
parties in pursuance of it. ... 16. ... As noticed hereinbefore, the respondent alleged commission
of offences under Sections 323 , 384 , 406 , 423 , 467 , 468 , 420 and 120B , IPC against
the appellants. A bare perusal of the said allegation and the
ingredients to attract them, as adverted to hereinbefore would reveal
that the allegations are vague and they did not carry the essential
ingredients to constitute the alleged offences. There is absolutely no
allegation in the complaint that the appellants herein had caused
hurt on the respondent so also, they did not reveal a case that the
appellants had intentionally put the respondent in fear of injury
either to himself or another or by putting him under such fear or
injury, dishonestly induced him to deliver any property or valuable
security. The same is the position with respect to the alleged
offences punishable under Sections 406 , 423 , 467 , 468 , 420 and 120 B, IPC . The ingredients to
attract the alleged offence referred to hereinbefore and the nature of
the allegations contained in the application filed by the respondent
would undoubtedly make it clear that the respondent had failed to
make specific allegation against the appellants herein in respect of
the aforesaid offences. The factual position thus would reveal that
the genesis as also the purpose of criminal proceedings are nothing
but the aforesaid incident and further that the dispute involved is
essentially of civil nature...." 9. In Bharateesh Reddy v. Ramesh Ranganathan4 the following was held by

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court:- 14. Section 420 deals with cheating and dishonestly inducing
 delivery of property. It reads as follows: 15. In Hridaya Ranjan Prasad Verma v. State of Bihar [Hridaya
 Ranjan Prasad Verma v. State of Bihar, (2000) 4 SCC 168 : 2000
 SCC (Cri) 786] , a two-Judge Bench of this Court interpreted Sections
 415 and 420IPC to hold that fraudulent or dishonest intention is a
 precondition to constitute the offence of cheating. The relevant

 4 (2022) 16 SCC 210 10 extract from the judgment reads thus : (SCC pp. 176-77, paras 14- 15)
"14. On a reading of the section it is manifest that in the definition
there are set forth two separate classes of acts which the person
deceived may be induced to do. In the first place he may be induced
fraudulently or dishonestly to deliver any property to any person.
The second class of acts set forth in the section is the doing or
omitting to do anything which the person deceived would not do or
omit to do if he were not so deceived. In the first class of cases the
inducing must be fraudulent or dishonest. In the second class of
acts, the inducing must be intentional but not fraudulent or
dishonest. 15. In determining the question it has to be kept in mind that the
distinction between mere breach of contract and the offence of
cheating is a fine one. It depends upon the intention of the accused
at the time of inducement which may be judged by his subsequent
conduct but for this subsequent conduct is not the sole test. Mere
breach of contract cannot give rise to criminal prosecution for
cheating unless fraudulent or dishonest intention is shown right at
the beginning of the transaction, that is the time when the offence is
said to have been committed. Therefore it is the intention which is
the gist of the offence. To hold a person guilty of cheating it is
necessary to show that he had fraudulent or dishonest intention at
the time of making the promise. From his mere failure to keep up
promise subsequently such a culpable intention right at the
beginning, that is, when he made the promise cannot be presumed."
(emphasis supplied) 16. In Dalip Kaur v. Jagnar Singh [Dalip Kaur v. Jagnar Singh,
(2009) 14 SCC 696 : (2010) 2 SCC (Cri) 223] a two-Judge Bench of
this Court held that a dispute arising out of a breach of contract
would not amount to an offence of cheating under Sections 415 and 11 420. The relevant extract is as follows : (SCC pp. 696-700, paras 9- 10)
"9. The ingredients of Section 420 of the Penal Code are: 10. The High Court, therefore, should have posed a question as to
whether any act of inducement on the part of the appellant has been
raised by the second respondent and whether the appellant had an
intention to cheat him from the very inception. If the dispute between
the parties was essentially a civil dispute resulting from a breach of
contract on the part of the appellants by non-refunding the amount of
advance the same would not constitute an offence of cheating.
Similar is the legal position in respect of an offence of criminal
breach of trust having regard to its definition contained in Section
405 of the Penal Code. (See Ajay Mitra v. State of M.P. [Ajay
Mitra v. State of M.P., (2003) 3 SCC 11 : 2003 SCC (Cri) 703] )" 21. In Vijay Kumar Ghai v. State of W.B. [Vijay Kumar Ghai v. State
of W.B., (2022) 7 SCC 124 : (2022) 2 SCC (Cri) 787] another two-
Judge Bench held that entrustment of property is pivotal to
constitute an offence under Section 405IPC. The relevant extract
reads as follows : (SCC p. 140, para 28)
"28. "Entrustment" of property under Section 405 of the Penal Code,
1860 is pivotal to constitute an offence under this. The words used
are, "in any manner entrusted with property". So, it extends to
entrustments of all kinds whether to clerks, servants, business
partners or other persons, provided they are holding a position of
"trust". A person who dishonestly misappropriates property
entrusted to them contrary to the terms of an obligation imposed is
liable for a criminal breach of trust and is punished under Section
406 of the Penal Code." 22. None of the ingredients of the offence of criminal breach of trust
have been demonstrated on the allegations in the complaint as they
stand. The first respondent alleges that the appellant caused breach 13 of trust by issuing grossly irregular bills, which adversely affected
 his professional fees. However, an alleged breach of the contractual
 terms does not ipso facto constitute the offence of the criminal breach
 of trust without there being a clear case of entrustment. No element
 of entrustment has been prima facie established based on the facts
 and circumstances of the present matter. Therefore, the ingredients
 of the offence of criminal breach of trust are ex facie not made out on
 the basis of the complaint as it stands. 23. In the above view of the matter, there is a patent error on the
 part of the High Court in setting aside the judgment of the Additional
 Sessions Judge and by holding that cognizance was correctly taken
 of the offence punishable under Sections 405 , 415 and 420IPC." 10. In Vijay Kumar Ghai v. State of W.B.5 , the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as

 follows:- 23. A two-Judge Bench of this Court in State of M.P. v. Awadh
Kishore Gupta [State of M.P. v. Awadh Kishore Gupta, (2004) 1 SCC
691 : 2004 SCC (Cri) 353] made the following observation : (SCC p.
700, para 11)
"11. ... the powers possessed by the High Court under Section 482 of the Code are very wide and the very plenitude of the power
requires great caution in its exercise. Court must be careful to see
that its decision in exercise of this power is based on sound
principles. The inherent power should not be exercised to stifle a
legitimate prosecution. The High Court being the highest Court of a
State should normally refrain from giving a prima facie decision in a
case where the entire facts are incomplete and hazy, more so, when
the evidence has not been collected and produced before the Court
and the issues involved, whether factual or legal, are of magnitude
and cannot be seen in their true perspective without sufficient
material. Of course, no hard-and-fast rule can be laid down in regard to cases in which the High Court will exercise its 15 extraordinary jurisdiction of quashing the proceeding at any stage.
... In proceedings instituted on complaint, exercise of the inherent
powers to quash the proceedings is called for only in a case where
the complaint does not disclose any offence or is frivolous, vexatious
or oppressive. If the allegations set out in the complaint do not
constitute the offence of which cognizance has been taken by the
Magistrate, it is open to the High Court to quash the same in exercise
of the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code." 24. This Court in G. Sagar Suri v. State of U.P. [G. Sagar
Suri v. State of U.P., (2000) 2 SCC 636 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 513]
observed that it is the duty and obligation of the criminal court to
exercise a great deal of caution in issuing the process, particularly
when matters are essentially of civil nature. 25. This Court has time and again cautioned about converting
purely civil disputes into criminal cases. This Court in Indian Oil
Corpn. [Indian Oil Corpn. v. NEPC India Ltd. , (2006) 6 SCC 736 : 338-39, paras 6-7) 16 "6. Now the question to be examined by us is as to whether on the
facts disclosed in the petition of the complaint any criminal offence
whatsoever is made out much less offences under Sections
420 /120-BIPC. The only allegation in the complaint petition against
the accused persons is that they assured the complainant that when
they receive the insurance claim amounting to Rs 4,20,000, they
would pay a sum of Rs 2,60,000 to the complainant out of that but
the same has never been paid. ... It was pointed out on behalf of the
complainant that the accused fraudulently persuaded the
complainant to agree so that the accused persons may take steps for
moving the consumer forum in relation to the claim of Rs 4,20,000. It
is well settled that every breach of contract would not give rise to an
offence of cheating and only in those cases breach of contract would
amount to cheating where there was any deception played at the
very inception. If the intention to cheat has developed later on, the
same cannot amount to cheating. In the present case, it has nowhere
been stated that at the very inception that there was intention on
behalf of the accused persons to cheat which is a condition
precedent for an offence under Section 420IPC. 7. In our view petition of complaint does not disclose any criminal
offence at all much less any offence either under Section 420 or
Section 120-BIPC and the present case is a case of purely civil
dispute between the parties for which remedy lies before a civil court
by filing a properly constituted suit. In our opinion, in view of these
facts allowing the police investigation to continue would amount to
an abuse of the process of court and to prevent the same it was just
and expedient for the High Court to quash the same by exercising
the powers under Section 482CrPC which it has erroneously
refused." 38. There can be no doubt that a mere breach of contract is not in
itself a criminal offence and gives rise to the civil liability of 17 damages. However, as held by this Court in Hridaya Ranjan Prasad
 Verma v. State of Bihar [Hridaya Ranjan Prasad Verma v. State of
 Bihar, (2000) 4 SCC 168 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 786] , the distinction
 between mere breach of contract and cheating, which is criminal
 offence, is a fine one. While breach of contract cannot give rise to
 criminal prosecution for cheating, fraudulent or dishonest intention is
 the basis of the offence of cheating. In the case at hand, complaint
 filed by Respondent 2 does not disclose dishonest or fraudulent
 intention of the appellants." 11. The petition of complaint related to a purchase order dated 18.12.2010 and

 purported non supply and/or part supply of materials ordered under the

 said purchase order. The petitioner evidently ceased to be a Director of the

 accused no. 1 company with effect from 17.01.2009, as depicted in the Form

 32 submitted by the accused no.1 company with the Registrar of Companies

 on 20.9.2001. It is apparent that the petitioner had no role to play in the

 affairs of the accused no.1 company at the time of either placing the

 purchase order by the complainant/opposite party no.2 or subsequent

 purported non-performance of the terms of such purchase order by the

 accused no.1 company. 12. According to Section 190 of the Code of Criminal Procedure taking

 cognizance by the Learned Magistrate requires exercise of judicial mind. Taking of cognizance is not a mechanical process to be discharged without

 application of mind diligently and judiciously. Section 190(1)(a) of the Code

 of Criminal Procedure states that any Magistrate can proceed in a certain

 direction upon a petition of complaint of facts which constitute such offence. 13. The complaint reflected breach in terms of the supply order, which dispute is

 amenable for adjudication before a competent civil forum. In the absence of

 materials, which suggest existence of false and fraudulent representation

 and intention at the inception of the transaction, the charge under Section

 420 of the Indian Penal Code cannot be sustained. 14. The complaint and the statement of the representative of the opposite party

 no.2 company did describe the individual act of deception on the part of the

 petitioner to justify his status as an accused in the instant case. 15. Section 406 of the Indian Penal Code provides punishment for the offence of

 criminal breach of trust. The main ingredients of the said Section are - (a) entrustment of property by the aggrieved to the accused; and (b) subsequent misappropriation of the said property by the accused. The instant case, disclosed existence of sale transaction between the

 accused no.1 and the opposite party no.2 company. Payments in respect of

 commercial transaction for supply of goods cannot be construed to be

 "entrustment" of money by the purchaser to the seller, within the meaning of section 415 of the Indian Penal Code. 16. Section120B of the Indian Penal Code provides punishment for the offence of

 criminal conspiracy. The ingredient with regard to such offence could not be

 inferred from the facts as disclosed in the petition of complaint and the

 statements on record. 17. The primary ingredients of the offence under section 406 of the Indian Penal

 Code are - (a) entrustment of property by the aggrieved to the accused; and (b) subsequent misappropriation of the said property by the accused. The offence under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code has its primary

 ingredients as- a) false and fraudulent representations made by the accused to the

 aggrieved: Thus it is apparent that in case of the offence under Section 420 of the

 Indian Penal Code there must exist false and fraudulent representation by

 the accused to the aggrieved prior to delivery of the valuable property by the

 aggrieved to the accused. The transfer of property in respect of the offence

 under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code is not voluntary but is a result of

 inducement. In case of an offence under Section 406 of the Indian Penal

 Code, the transfer of the valuable property from the possession of the

 aggrieved to the accused must be coupled with subsequent act of

 misappropriation for wrongful gain by the accused. 18. It was apparent from the petition of complaint that the accused no.1 has its

 office at Ghaziabad, in the State of Uttar Pradesh and the accused persons,

 including the petitioner, also resided in places which were beyond the 20 territorial jurisdiction of the Ld. Court below. The opposite party no.2

company also had its registered office at New Delhi and regional office at

Jharkhand. All the aforesaid places lie outside the territorial jurisdiction of

the Learned Metropolitan Magistrate, 8th Court, Calcutta. Section 202 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure states that any Magistrate, on receipt of a

complaint which has been made over to him under Section 192 , shall, in a

case where the accused is residing at a place beyond the area in which he

exercises his jurisdiction, postpone the issue of process against the accused

and either inquire into the case himself or direct an investigation to be made

by a police officer or by such other person as he thinks fit, for the purpose of

deciding whether or not there is sufficient ground for proceeding. It is thus

apparent that in cases where the accused resides outside the territorial

jurisdiction of the Court of the Magistrate, the Learned Magistrate is

required to either inquire himself or to direct investigation by a police officer

or any other person deemed fit by the Magistrate. The said requirement of

law needs to be respected and complied with care and caution and not to be

treated as a mere empty formality. From a perusal of the orders passed by

the Learned Magistrate, it is apparent that the Learned Magistrate recorded

the statement of the complainant/opposite party no.2 under Section 200 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure but thereafter did not take any further steps,

as envisaged under Section 202 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In view of

the mandatory nature of the provisions of Section 202 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure relating to issuance of process against persons residing 21 outside the jurisdiction of the Court of the Learned Inquiring Magistrate, it is

 apparent that the issuance of process by the Learned Magistrate through the

 order cannot be sustained. 19. The address of the petitioner revealed to be of H-304, Ajnara Landmark,

 Sector - IV, Vaishali, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, Pin - 201011. 20. An application filed under Section 200 Cr.P.C., 1973 before the Chief

 Metropolitan Magistrate, Kolkata did not mention the designation of the

 petitioner at Serial No.5 of the Cause Title to be arraigned as an accused. 21. The entire complaint did not mention any overt act or specific role of the

 present petitioner to have been involved in the alleged offence. The

 petitioner could not have been vicariously liable for the act of the accused

 company being ceased to be a part of the company having rendered his

 resignation vide Form - 32 issued under the provisions of the Companies

 Act, 1956 with effect from 17.01.2009 prior to the occurrence of the alleged

 incident. The said document to have been issued by the Registrar of

 Companies is unimpeachable in nature and can be relied upon at this stage. Moreover, the present petitioner was not a signatory to the agreement in

 question. 22. The Learned Magistrate erred in taking cognizance with regard to the present

 petitioner without following the provisions mandated under Section 202 of

 the Code of Criminal Procedure as well as the dearth of an iota of

 involvement and knowledge of the present petitioner in commission of

 offence alleged of. 23. The dispute primarily as apparent from the material on record is civil in

 nature which has been given a colour of criminality to frustrate and

 pressurize the petitioner. 24. The instant proceeding if allowed to continue will impede the interest of the

 petitioner who will have to suffer the rigmarole of trial and its constraints. The proceedings as far as the present petitioner is concerned is quashed

 accordingly. 25. In view of the above discussions, the proceedings being Case No. C-11974 of

 2010 pending before the Court of the Learned 8th Metropolitan Magistrate,

 Kolkata under Sections 406 / 420 / 120B of the Indian Penal Code is quashed. 26. Under such circumstances, the instant criminal revisional application being

 CRR 2281 of 2011 is allowed. 27. Accordingly, CRR 2281 of 2011 stands disposed of. 28. There is no order as to costs. 29. Let the copy of this judgment be sent to the learned trial court as well as the

 police station concerned for necessary information and compliance. 30. All parties shall act on the server copy of this judgment duly downloaded

 from the official website of this court. (Ananya Bandyopadhyay, J.)