(Per
: HONOURABLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE MR. K.S.RADHAKRISHNAN)
 

 

 

	This
appeal has been preferred by the Bank of India, Nehru Place Branch,
New Delhi, the first respondent, challenging the judgment of the
learned Single Judge directing the appellant-Bank to discharge its
obligation under Irrevocable Revolving Letter of Credit bearing No.
NP/Revolving LC/35/51 of June 01, 2005 (for short `IRLC') and
Amendment to L.C. of June 13, 2005, and to make payment of the
outstanding amount as on August 14, 2006, and to continue to make
payments of the rental and also to pay the costs of Rs.10,000/-. 
Learned Single Judge, it was contended, has not properly appreciated
the various provisions of IRLC and their legal effect and
consequences, and also failed to note that there were lot of
discrepancies in the documents submitted to the Bank, and therefore,
the issuing Bank is not legally obliged to honour the IRLC when it
was presented by the 2nd respondent-State Bank of
Saurashtra. Further, it is also stated that the 2nd
respondent-Bank had failed to carry on negotiations with M/s. A.K.
Enterprise (the applicant) to honour the bills produced by Vimal
Services Limited, the petitioner (the beneficiary) and then seeking
for collection from Bank of India. Further, it was also pointed out
that High Court of Gujarat has no jurisdiction to entertain the
present writ petition, since head office of the appellant-Bank is
situated at New Delhi and the cause of action arose at New Delhi. Original
Petitioner-Vimal Services Limited is engaged in the business of
providing low-cost fuel (furnace oil) for operating power plant
machinery on rental basis for generating electricity. Generating
plant is manufactured by importing certain machinery from foreign
countries. M/s. A.K. Enterprise, having its office at New Delhi, was
desirous of getting such power plant installed at M/s. Ved Cellulose
Limited at Ghaziabad. For that purpose, A.K. Enterprise placed an
order dated 7th June 2005 on the petitioner, and
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was arrived at on 07.06.2005 at
Vadodara in the State of Gujarat. Agreement provided for executing
an Irrevocable Revolving Letter of Credit or financial bank
guarantee. Such guarantee would be for Rs.240 lakhs and was valid
for 27 months. Further, it was also stated that M/s. A.K. Enterprise
and Ved Cellulose Limited had agreed and guaranteed that the
proprietors and partners, in their financial capacity as well as in
their personal capacities, would remain liable for monthly rental
payments for the entire contractual period even in the event of
closure or dissolution of M/s. A.K. Enterprise and M/s. Ved
Cellulose Limited. Based on the contract, A.K. Enterprise had,
through Bank of India, caused the issuance of IRLC dated 01.06.2005,
produced at Annexure B along with the petition. Original
petitioner has taken up the stand that as per the agreement, it had
installed the machinery at 16th km. stone on Hapur Road,
VIII Lakhan, O.P. Galan, District Ghaziabad (U.P.), and for the
purpose of installation a part of land/property was taken on lease by
the lessor-petitioner-company, and the lessee-company is utilizing
the power generated through the machinery installed by the
petitioner-company. Petitioner is having its accounts with the 2nd
respondent-Bank, and pursuant to the IRLC, petitioner-company had
sent the invoices/bills to the appellant-Bank for realization. A
total of 18 invoices/bills were sent and they were not honoured by
the appellant-Bank, on the ground of alleged discrepancies in the
documents, but without giving any explanation as to what were the
discrepancies. Petitioner had, therefore, addressed a letter dated
24.05.2006 to the appellant-Bank and petitioner was advised to
resubmit the bills vide letter dated 28.06.2006. On 14.08.2006,
petitioner addressed another letter to the appellant-Bank in respect
of the outstanding payment, which was required to be collected from
M/s. A.K. Enterprise towards rental charges for providing 1378 KVA
(1.5 MW) power. Appellant-Bank has addressed letters dated
03.08.2006 and 24.08.2006 to 2nd respondent-Bank and
returned the documents stating `The payment is not forthcoming'. Petitioner,
therefore, approached this Court through the present writ petition
seeking a direction to the appellant-Bank to honour IRLC. A
detailed counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of the
appellant-Bank placing reliance on Uniform Customs and Practice for
Documentary Credits (UCPDC ICC No.500). Reference was made to Article 10 of the UCPDC. Reference was also made to Special
Provisions in the IRLC. Instruction No.2 in the Special Provisions
of IRLC provides that the IRLC was available for negotiation with any
bank in India. Instruction No.4 was to the effect that credit was to
be reinstated for the original L/C Value automatically by the opening
bank on submission of the negotiated invoice. It was contended that
when both the instructions are juxtaposed, the one and only
inescapable conclusion is that unless there is prior negotiation and
other instructions too are scrupulously followed and complied with,
no reimbursement needs to be made under the conditions of IRLC. 
Further, referring to letters dated 03.08.2006 and 24.08.2006, it was
contended that there was no negotiation prior to the transmission of
documents to appellant-Bank. Further, referring to the letter dated
02.07.2006, it was also stated that, in fact, bills were sent for
collection, but they could not have been paid unless collection was
forthcoming from M/s. A.K. Enterprise. Further, it is also stated
that documents were received by 2nd respondent for
collection only and hence under Article 24 of ICC 522, the same could
not be paid unless collected. It is further contended that the
contention that payment is to be made nonetheless, is not well
conceived and deserves to be discarded. Further, it is also stated
in the counter affidavit that Article 14 of UCPDC would suffice to
clinch the crux of the matter as if the documents appear on their
face not to be in compliance with the terms and conditions of the
IRLC. It was pointed out that appellant-Bank refused to take up
documents as they ex-facie were not in compliance with the conditions
of the IRLC and such documents were rejected commencing from
16.05.2005 to 13.04.2006 and reasons were pointed out in each of such
case in writing, within the stipulated time frame of seven banking
days. The reasons inter alia are (i) the documents were received
late, (ii) negotiation not advised by telex or fax, (iii) bills of
exchange not drawn as per L.C. and (iv) description of goods not as
per L.C. Further, it was stated that rejection was based on the
premises of non-fulfillment of conditions of the L.C. read with UCPDC 500.
 

 

 

	A
detailed affidavit-in-rejoinder was submitted by the
petitioner-respondent no.1 stating that the appellant-Bank is trying
to mislead the Court by giving wrong interpretation of IRLC and the
provisions of UCPDC 500. It was stated that earlier appellant-bank
honoured some of the payments, without raising any objection and
without waiting for prior negotiations, and consequently disbursed
the amounts to respondent no.2-Bank. No provision either in UCPDC
500 or in IRLC imposed any condition for making negotiation by
respondent no.2-Bank with the appellant-Bank. On the other hand,
from the face of IRLC, it is crystal clear that payment under the
same would be available `at sight'. It is stated that role of 2nd
respondent-Bank is merely intermediary, through whom
petitioner-respondent no.1 routed the documents to the
appellant-Bank. The statement that appellant-Bank could not make
payments because they had not received any payment from M/s. A.K.
Enterprises is misleading. Further, it is also stated that
petitioner-company is having its registered office at Baroda and the
business transaction was carried out from Baroda, and the bills and
IRLC were signed by the petitioner-company at Baroda, and the
documents were submitted by the petitioner-company to 2nd
respondent-Bank, which is situated at Baroda for onward submission to
appellant-Bank. Appellant-Bank is a body corporate having wide
branch network throughout the country, including different parts of
Gujarat, and the Branch Office of the Bank of India at Baroda was the
confirming Bank, through which IRLC was executed, and hence Gujarat
High Court has jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition,
especially when Bank of India is a nationalized Bank. Learned
Single Judge after examining various contentions raised by the
parties elaborately came to the conclusion that appellant-Bank cannot
shirk its responsibility to honour the IRLC. Reasons stated by
appellant-Bank not to honour the IRLC, according to learned Single
Judge, cannot be sustained in law. Learned Single Judge took the
view that even if there are some discrepancies, it would not make the
dispute a dispute of complex facts, especially when the bills were
drawn under the IRLC and the conditions thereof are complied with. 
Learned Single Judge further noticed that the IRLC specifically
refers to Bank of India, Ilorapark Branch, Baroda, under the column
`Advising Bank/Available with Beneficiary' and the IRLC was also
confirmed through the Office of Bank of India situated at Baroda. 
That being the factual situation, learned Single Judge took the view
that the writ petition is perfectly maintainable before this Court
and there is no justification for Bank of India not honouring the
Letter of Credit. We
have heard Mr. Mihir Thakore, learned Senior Advocate for the
appellant-Bank and Mr. D.D. Vyas, learned Senior Advocate for the
original petitioner-respondent no.1-Company. Learned
Senior Counsel for the appellant-Bank placed reliance on the
decisions of the Apex Court reported in Delhi Cloth & General
Mills Co. Ltd. v. Harnam Singh and others (AIR 1955 SC 590)
and Morgan Stanley Mutual Fund vs. Kartick Das (1994.4 SCC 225) and submitted that this
Court has no territorial jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition
against the appellant-Bank, which is having its head office at New
Delhi. Learned Counsel also referred extensively to various
provisions of UCPDC and also the various terms and conditions of
IRLC. Learned Counsel also referred to the judgment of
Court of Appeal in Banque
De L'Indochine Et De Suez S.A. vs. J.H. Rayner (Mincing Lane) Ltd.
(1983.1 Queen's Bench 711). Reference was also made to the decision of Kings Bench Division
reported in Lloyd's List Law Reports Vol.22 1925 532 and
the decision of House of Lords reported in Lloyd's List Law
Reports Vol. 27.2. Learned Senior counsel also submitted that
there were lot of discrepancies in the documents submitted, and only
if those discrepancies were waived by A.K. Enterprise, the
applicant-Bank was expected to
honour its commitment under the Letter of Credit. Further, it was
also pointed out that unless there was prior negotiation by the
negotiating Bank State Bank of Saurashtra, and payment effected,
there was no question of Bank of India honouring its commitment by
paying the amount to the petitioner-company or to the negotiating
Bank. Learned
counsel appearing for the petitioner-respondent no.1, however,
submitted that there is no reason to interfere with the judgment of
the learned Single Judge on law as well as on facts. Reference was
made to the decisions of the Apex Court in U.P. Cooperative
Federation Ltd. Vs. Singh Consultants and Engineers (P) Ltd. ( 1988.1
SCC 174) and Federal Bank Ltd. Vs. V.M. Jog Engineering Ltd.
and others (2001.1 SCC 663) to explain the scope of the terms of
IRLC and UCPDC. Learned counsel submitted that the attempt of Bank
of India is to wriggle out of its commitment under the Letter of
Credit. We
are, in this case, primarily concerned with the enforceability of the
IRLC admittedly issued by the appellant-Bank in favour of the
respondent no.1, the beneficiary. IRLC was issued on an application
preferred by M/s. A.K. Enterprise to the appellant-Bank. Relevant
terms of the IRLC are given below for easy reference. We hereby issue
this irrevocable documentary credit subject to UCPDC 1993 Revision
ICC Brochure 500. The terms and condition of this credit shall
prevail, wherever they differ from UCPDC. Your drafts must be
accompanied by documents listed in page no.2 which forms an integral
part of this credit. Negotiations must be marked separately on the
back hereof and this doc. credit should accompany the drafts which
exhausts this credit and provided such drafts are drawn and presented
in accordance with terms of this credit. We hereby engage with
drawers, endorsers and bonafide holders that the said drafts shall be
honoured on presentation/maturity. INSTRUCTIONS FOR
NEGOTIATING BANK: Reimbursement
Instructions - 1.	On receipt of
documents complying with terms and conditions of doc credit we shall
cover you as per your instructions. 2.	After 3 working
days of your swift/tlx/fax or advising negotiation of documents to
us. Please claim reimbursement from our A/c. No. ......... with
.................. your covering schedule of documents must provide
confirmation of having obtained reimbursement. SPECIAL
INSTRUCTIONS: SPECIAL
INSTRUCTIONS TO NEGOTIATING BANK: SPECIAL
INSTRUCTIONS TO ADVISING BANK: Article
10 of ICC No.500 deals with Types of Credit, which is also extracted
for easy reference: Presentation of
documents must be made to the issuing Bank or the confirming Bank, if
any, or any other Nominated Bank. (ii)	Negotiation means
the giving of value for Draft(s) and/or document(s) by the bank
authorised to negotiate. Mere examination of the documents without
giving of value does not constitute a negotiation. (c)	Unless the
Nominated Bank is the Confirming Bank, nomination by the issuing Bank
does not constitute any undertaking by the Nominated Bank to pay, to
incur a deferred payment undertaking, to accept Draft(s), or to
negotiate, except where expressly agreed to by the Nominated Bank and
so communicated to the Beneficiary, the Nominated Bank's receipt of
and/or examination and/or forwarding of the documents does not make
that bank liable to pay, to incur a deferred payment undertaking, to
accept Draft(s), or to negotiate. (d)	By nominating
another bank, or by allowing for negotiation by any bank, or by
authorising or requesting another bank to add its confirmation, the
Issuing Bank authorizes such bank to pay, accept Draft(s) or
negotiate as the case may be, against documents which appear on their
face to be in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Credit
and undertakes to reimburse such bank in accordance with the
provisions of these Articles. Article
14 deals with Discrepant Documents and Notice, which is reproduced
below for easy reference: It
is unnecessary to elaborate much on the scope of various terms and
conditions of the IRLC as well as terms and conditions of UCPDC,
since Supreme Court had an occasion to deal with the scope of IRLC as
well as UCPDC in U.P. Cooperative Federation (supra) and had
spoken on them. The Apex Court referred to several decisions,
i.e., United City Merchants (Investments) Ltd. Vs. Royal Bank of
Canada (1982.2 All ER 720), Texmaco Ltd. Vs. State Bank of India (AIR
1979 Cal 44), Tarapore & Co., Madras Vs. M/s. V/O Tractors
Export, Moscow (1969.1 SCC 233), United Commercial Bank Vs. Bank of
India ( 1981.2 SCC 766), Centax (India) Ltd. Vs. Vinmar Impex Inc. (1986.4 SCC 136) and stated that the opening of a confirmed
letter of credit constituted a bargain between the banker and the
seller of the goods which imposed on the banker an absolute
obligation to pay, and the banker was not bound or entitled to honour
the bills of exchange drawn by the seller, unless they and such
accompanying documents as might be required thereunder, were in exact
compliance with the terms of the credit. In the concurring judgment
in U.P. Cooperative Federation (supra) Justice Jagannatha
Shetty has stated as follows:- We
are in full agreement with the view taken by the learned Single
Judge. Letters Patent Appeal and the Civil Applications stand
dismissed accordingly. Interim
relief stands vacated. (K.S.
RADHAKRISHNAN, C.J.)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(AKIL
KURESHI, J.)
 

 

 

[sn
devu]pps
 

 

 

	Request
of the learned counsel for the appellant to stay operation of this
judgement and order is rejected. (K.S.
RADHAKRISHNAN, C.J.)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(AKIL
KURESHI, J.)
 

 

 

[sn
devu] pps