The petitioner was employed as Special Assistant in the

 respondent Bank. He was placed under suspension on 14.08.2015

 and thereafter, a charge memo was issued to him on 15.07.2017.

 An F.I.R. was registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation on

 30.07.2015 against the petitioner. The Department has also issued

 a charge memorandum, five charges framed against him at first

 instance dated 15.05.2017 and on the second instance on

 08.06.2017 as many as 12 articles of charges were framed. All the

 charges relate to receipt of bribe by the petitioner by misusing his

 position as Union Leader. The charge memos issued against the

 petitioner dated 15.05.2017 and 08.06.2017 are put to challenge in

 the present writ petition. 2.Mr.Vijay Shankar, learned counsel for the petitioner would

 submit that the charge memoranda are unsustainable in law and the

 disciplinary action ought not to be proceeded against him, since the

 petitioner has not been furnished with the copies of the documents

 relied on by the prosecution. Moreover, according to him, principles

 of natural justice have not been adhered to while the disciplinary

 action against him. According to him, he was being victimised since

 he happened to be the Union Leader in the Trade Union. According

 to him, he has been fighting against the respondent Bank on several
http://www.judis.nic.in
 issues and therefore, in order to wreck vengeance on him, the 3 management has initiated disciplinary action against him with mala

 fide intention. In the said circumstances, this Court intervention is

 sought even at the stage of issuance of charge memo. 3.Although several grounds have been raised while assailing

 the charge memorandum issued against the petitioner, this Court is

 unable to accept any of the grounds raised in the writ petition,

 which is materially enough and justify for this Court to intervene at

 the stage of issuance of charge memo. Although it is pleaded about

 the victimisation of the petitioner, nothing can be presumed at the

 present stage unless the disciplinary action which is set in motion by

 issuance of the charge memo which alone has to proceed to its

 logical end. 4.A challenge to the charge memorandum cannot be

 successfully maintained unless some grave violation of principles of

 natural justice or the initiation of disciplinary action itself suffers

 from any blatant bias or jurisdictional error. In this case, no such

 inference could be drawn even remotely on the basis of self serving

 averments of the petitioner. Moreover, the charges levelled against

 the petitioner which are extremely serious in nature and required a

 proper enquiry and the same cannot be scuttled by this Court at the

 very initial stage of disciplinary action. 5.The argument that the documents have not been furnished
http://www.judis.nic.in 4 to the petitioner cannot be the sole basis for this Court to interfere

 at the present stage. The order passed by the enquiry authority,

 setting the petitioner ex parte is because of the conduct of the

 petitioner as he approached this Court at every stage of the

 disciplinary action without allowing the enquiry to proceed further.

 The petitioner having invited such order, cannot choose to complain

 against the Enquiry Officer or the Disciplinary Authority about he

 being set ex parte or not following the principles of natural justice. 6.In the fitness of things, this Court is of the view that the

 petitioner may respond to the charge memorandum and participate

 in the enquiry and in case, he is innocent as he claims, he can

 always come out unscathed from the enquiry proceedings. 7.Certainly, it is not open to the petitioner to put spokes on

 the wheels of departmental enquiry and scuttle the same at the

 very threshold. The charges that have been framed against the

 petitioner are part of the larger scam of fraudulent employment

 being obtained by several hundred persons in the Bank. In view of

 the magnitude of the charges which are part of the larger scam, the

 petitioner cannot be allowed to scuttle the process of due enquiry in

 terms of the disciplinary action initiated against him. 8.For the above said reason, this Court finds that the writ
http://www.judis.nic.in 5 petition is not only premature but also not maintainable and hence,

 the same is dismissed. No costs. Consequently, connected

 Miscellaneous Petitions are also dismissed. 27.06.2019
 Index : Yes/No

 Internet : Yes/No
 Sgl

 To 1.The Chief Manager/Disciplinary Authority,
 Indian Overseas Bank,
 Central Office,
 763, Anna Salai, Chennai. 2.The Enquiry Officer,
 Indian Overseas Bank,
 Central Office, 763, Anna Salai,
 Chennai. http://www.judis.nic.in 6 V.PARTHIBAN, J. Sgl W.P.No.18170 of 2019 27.06.2019

http://www.judis.nic.in