Dipak Misra, CJI [for himself and A.M. Khanwilkar, J.]

 INDEX

 S. No. Heading Page No. A. Prologue 3 B. Contentions in the Writ Petition 10 C. Stand in the counter affidavit and the 14 applications for intervention D. Background of the Writ Petition 18 D.1 P. Rathinam’s case – The question of 19 Signature Not Verified unconstitutionality of Section 309 of Digitally signed by SUBHASH CHANDER Date: 2018.03.09 the Indian Penal Code D.2 Gian Kaur’s case – The question of 22
14:11:27 IST
Reason: K.1 Individual Dignity as a facet of Article 135 21 L Right of self-determination and individual 149
 autonomy
M. Social morality, medical ethicality and State 155
 interest N. Submissions of the States 157 O. Submissions of the Intervenor (Society for 159
 the Right to Die with Diginity)
P. Advance Directive/Advance Care Directive/ 160
 Advance Medical Directive (a) Who can execute the Advance Directive 170 and how (b) What should it contain? 171 (c) How should it be recorded and 172 preserved (d) When and by whom can it be given 174 effect to (e) What if permission is refused by the 179
 Medical Board (f) Revocation or inapplicability of 181
 Advance Directive 186 Q. Conclusions in seriatim

A. Prologue: 2. The perception is not always the same at every stage.

There comes a phase in life when the spring of life is frozen,

the rain of circulation becomes dry, the movement of body

becomes motionless, the rainbow of life becomes colourless

and the word ‗life‘ which one calls a dance in space and time

becomes still and blurred and the inevitable death comes near

to hold it as an octopus gripping firmly with its tentacles so

that the person ―shall rise up never‖. The ancient Greet

philosopher, Epicurus, has said, although in a different

context:- 3. The question that emerges is whether a person should be

allowed to remain in such a stage of incurable passivity

suffering from pain and anguish in the name of Hippocratic

oath or, for that matter, regarding the suffering as only a state

of mind and a relative perception or treating the utterance of

death as a ―word infinitely terrible‖ to be a rhetoric without

any meaning. In contradistinction to the same, the question

that arises is should he not be allowed to cross the doors of

life and enter, painlessly and with dignity, into the dark

tunnel of death whereafter it is said that there is resplendence.

In delineation of such an issue, there emerges the question in

law – should he or she be given such treatment which has 8 come into existence with the passage of time and progress of

medical technology so that he/she exists possibly not realizing

what happens around him/her or should his/her individual

dignity be sustained with concern by smoothening the process

of dying. 4. The legal question does not singularly remain in the set

framework of law or, for that matter, morality or dilemma of

the doctors but also encapsulates social values and the family

mindset to make a resolute decision which ultimately is a

cause of concern for all. There is also another perspective to it.

A family may not desire to go ahead with the process of

treatment but is compelled to do so under social pressure

especially in a different milieu, and in the case of an

individual, there remains a fear of being branded that he/she,

in spite of being able to provide the necessary treatment to the

patient, has chosen not to do so. The social psyche constantly

makes him/her feel guilty. The collective puts him at the

crossroads between socially carved out ‗meaningful guilt‘ and

his constant sense of rationality and individual responsibility. 9 There has to be a legalistic approach which is essential to

clear the maze and instill awareness that gradually melts the

idea of ―meaningful guilt‖ and ushers in an act of ―affirmative

human purpose‖ that puts humanness on a high pedestal. 5. There is yet another aspect. In an action of this nature,

there can be abuse by the beneficiaries who desire that the

patient‘s heart should stop so that his property is inherited in

promptitude and in such a situation, the treating physicians

are also scared of collusion that may invite the wrath of

criminal law as well as social stigma. The medical, social and

ethical apprehensions further cloud their mind to take a

decision. The apprehension, the cultural stigma, the social

reprehension, the allegation of conspiracy, the ethical dilemma

and eventually the shadow between the individual desire and

the collective expression distances the reality and it is here

that the law has to have an entry to alleviate the agony of the

individual and dispel the collective attributes and perceptions

so that the imbroglio is clear. Therefore, the heart of the

matter is whether the law permits for accelerating the process 10 of dying sans suffering when life is on the path of inevitable

decay and if so, at what stage and to what extent. The said

issue warrants delineation from various perspectives.

B. Contentions in the Writ Petition: 6. The instant Writ Petition preferred under Article 32 of the

Constitution of India by the petitioner, a registered society,

seeks to declare ―right to die with dignity‖ as a fundamental

right within the fold of ―right to live with dignity‖ guaranteed

under Article 21 of the Constitution; to issue directions to the

respondents to adopt suitable procedure in consultation with

the State Governments, where necessary; to ensure that

persons of deteriorated health or terminally ill patients should

be able to execute a document titled ―My Living Will and

Attorney Authorisation‖ which can be presented to the

hospital for appropriate action in the event of the executant

being admitted to the hospital with serious illness which may

threaten termination of the life of the executant; to appoint a

committee of experts including doctors, social scientists and

lawyers to study into the aspect of issuing guidelines as to the 11 ―Living Wills‖; and to issue such further appropriate directions

and guidelines as may be necessary. 7. It is asserted that every individual is entitled to take

his/her decision about the continuance or discontinuance of

life when the process of death has already commenced and

he/she has reached an irreversible permanent progressive

state where death is not far away. It is contended that each

individual has an inherent right to die with dignity which is an

inextricable facet of Article 21 of the Constitution. That apart,

it is set forth that right to die sans pain and suffering is

fundamental to one‘s bodily autonomy and such integrity does

not remotely accept any effort that puts the individual on life

support without any ray of hope and on the contrary, the

whole regime of treatment continues in spite of all being aware

that it is a Sisyphean endeavour, an effort to light a bulb

without the filament or to expect a situation to be in an apple

pie order when it is actually in a state of chaos. 8. It is put forth that the concept of sustenance of

individual autonomy inheres in the right of privacy and also 12 comes within the fundamental conception of liberty. To

sustain the stand of privacy, reliance has been placed on the

decisions in Kharak Singh v. State of U.P. and others 1 , Gobind v. State of Madhya Pradesh and another 2 and

People’s Union for Civil Liberties v. Union of India and

another3. Inspiration has also been drawn from the decision

of the United States in Cruzan v. Director, Missouri

Department of Health 4 . It is averred that due to the

advancement of modern medical technology pertaining to

medical science and respiration, a situation has been created

where the dying process of the patient is unnecessarily

prolonged causing distress and agony to the patient as well as

to the near and dear ones and, consequently, the patient is in

a persistent vegetative state thereby allowing free intrusion. It

is also contended that the petitioner-society is not claiming

that the right to die is a part of the right to life but asserting

the claim that the right to die with dignity is an inseparable 1 (1964) 1 SCR 332 : AIR 1963 SC 1295 2 (1975) 2 SCC 148 3 (1997) 1 SCC 301 4 111 L Ed 2d 224 : 497 US 261 (1990) : 110 S.Ct. 2841 (1990) 13 and inextricable facet of the right to live with dignity. The

execution of a living will or issuance of advance directive has

become a necessity in today‘s time keeping in view the

prolongation of treatment in spite of irreversible prognosis and

owing to penal laws in the field that creates a dilemma in the

minds of doctors to take aid of the modern techniques in a

case or not. A comparison has been made between the

fundamental rights of an individual and the State interest

focusing on sanctity as well as quality of life. References have

been made to the laws in various countries, namely, United

Kingdom, United States of America, Australia, Denmark,

Singapore, Canada, etc. The autonomy of the patient has been

laid stress upon to highlight the right to die with dignity

without pain and suffering which may otherwise be prolonged

because of artificial continuance of life through methods that

are really not of any assistance for cure or improvement of

living conditions. C. Stand in the counter affidavit and the applications
 for intervention: 11. Counter affidavits have been filed by various States. We

need not refer to the same in detail. Suffice it to mention that

in certain affidavits, emphasis has been laid on Articles 37 , 39 and 47 which require the States to take appropriate steps as

envisaged in the said Articles for apposite governance. That

apart, it has been pronouncedly stated that the right to life

does not include the right to die and, in any case, the right to 17 live with dignity guaranteed under Article 21 of the

Constitution means availability of food, shelter and health and

does not include the right to die with dignity. It is asseverated

that saving the life is the primary duty of the State and,

therefore, there is necessity for health care. It is also

contended that the introduction of the right to die with dignity

as a facet of the right under Article 21 will create a right that

the said constitutional provision does not envisage and further

it may have the potential effect to destroy the said basic right. 12. An application for intervention has been filed by the

―Society for the Right to Die with Dignity‖ whose prayer for

intervention has been allowed. The affidavit filed by the said

society supports the concept of euthanasia because it is a

relief from irrecoverable suffering of which pain is a factor. It

has cited many an example from various texts to support

passive euthanasia and suggested certain criteria to be

followed. It has also supported the idea of introduction of

living will and durable power of attorney documents and has

filed a sample of living will or advance health directive or 18 advance declaration provided by Luis Kutner. Emphasis has

been laid on peaceful exit from life and the freedom of choice

not to live and particularly so under distressing conditions

and ill-health which lead to an irrecoverable state. The

management of terminally ill patients has been put at the

centre stage. It has been highlighted that determination of the

seemly criteria will keep the element of misuse by the family

members or the treating physician or, for that matter, any

interested person at bay and also remove the confusion. We have heard Mr. Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel

for the petitioner. Mr. P.S. Narasimha, learned Additional

Solicitor General for Union of India, Mr. Arvind P. Datar

learned senior counsel and Mr. Devansh A. Mohta, learned

counsel who have supported the cause put forth in the writ

petition. D. Background of the Writ Petition: 13. Before we engage ourselves with the right claimed, it is

requisite to state that the present litigation has a history and

while narrating the same, the assertions made in the Writ 19 Petition and the contentions which have been raised during

the course of hearing, to which we shall refer in due course,

are to be kept in mind. D.1 P. Rathinam’s case – The question of
unconstitutionality of Section 309 of the Indian Penal
Code: 14. Presently, it is necessary to travel backwards in time,

though not very far. Two individuals, namely, P. Rathinam

and Nagbhushan Patnaik, filed two Writ Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution which were decided by a two-

Judge Bench in P. Rathinam v. Union of India & another6.

The writ petitions assailed the constitutional validity of Section

309 of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ) contending that the same is

violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. The Court

posed 16 questions. The relevant ones read thus:- The Court further opined that by no stretch of imagination,

extinction of life can be read to be included in protection of life

because Article 21 , in its ambit and sweep, cannot include

within it the right to die as a part of fundamental right

guaranteed therein. The Constitution Bench ruled:- Thereafter, the Court proceeded to state:- 24. Proceeding to deal with physician assisted suicide, the

Constitution Bench observed:- 25. Although the controversy relating to attempt to suicide or

abetment of suicide was put to rest, yet the issue of 31 euthanasia remained alive. It arose for consideration almost

after a span of eleven years in Aruna Shanbaug (supra). A

writ petition was filed by the next friend of the petitioner

pleading, inter alia, that the petitioner was suffering

immensely because of an incident that took place thirty six

years back on 27.11.1973 and was in a Persistent Vegetative

State (PVS) and in no state of awareness and her brain was

virtually dead. The prayer of the next friend was that the

respondent be directed to stop feeding the petitioner and to

allow her to die peacefully. The Court noticed that there was

some variance in the allegation made in the writ petition and

the counter affidavit filed by the Professor and Head of the

hospital where the petitioner was availing treatment. The

Court appointed a team of three very distinguished doctors to

examine the petitioner thoroughly and to submit a report

about her physical and mental condition. The team submitted

a joint report. The Court asked the team of doctors to submit

a supplementary report by which the meaning of the technical

terms in the first report could be explained. Various other

aspects were also made clear. It is also worth noting that the 32 KEM Hospital where the petitioner was admitted was

appointed as the next friend by the Court because of its

services rendered to the petitioner and the emotional bonding

and attachment with the petitioner. 26. In Aruna Shanbaug (supra), after referring to the

authority in Vikram Deo Singh Tomar v. State of Bihar13 ,

this Court reproduced paragraphs 24 and 25 from Gian

Kaur‘s case and opined that the said paragraphs simply mean

that the view taken in Rathinam’s case to the effect that the

‗right to life‘ includes the ‗right to die‘ is not correct and para

25 specifically mentions that the debate even in such cases to

permit physician-assisted termination of life is inconclusive.

The Court further observed that it was held in Gian Kaur that

there is no ‗right to die‘ under Article 21 of the Constitution

and the right to life includes the right to live with human

dignity but in the case of a dying person who is terminally ill

or in permanent vegetative state, he may be allowed a

premature extinction of his life and it would not amount to a

crime. Thereafter, the Court took note of the submissions of 13 1988 Supp. SCC 734 : AIR 1988 SC 1782 33 the learned amicus curiae to the effect that the decision to

withdraw life support is taken in the best interests of the

patient by a body of medical persons. The Court observed that

it is not the function of the Court to evaluate the situation and

form an opinion on its own. The Court further noted that in

England, the parens patriae jurisdiction over adult mentally

incompetent persons was abolished by statute and the Court

has no power now to give its consent and in such a situation,

the Court only gives a declaration that the proposed omission

by doctors is not unlawful. 27. After so stating, the Court addressed the legal issues,

namely, active and passive euthanasia. It noted the

legislations prevalent in Netherlands, Switzerland, Belgium,

U.K., Spain, Austria, Italy, Germany, France and United States

of America. It also noted that active euthanasia is illegal in all

States in USA, but physician-assisted death is legal in the

States of Oregon, Washington and Montana. The Court also

referred to the legal position in Canada. Dealing with passive

euthanasia, the two-Judge Bench opined that passive

euthanasia is usually defined as withdrawing medical 34 treatment with a deliberate intention of causing the patient‘s

death. An example was cited by stating that if a patient

requires kidney dialysis to survive, not giving dialysis although

the machine is available is passive euthanasia and similarly,

withdrawing the machine where a patient is in coma or on

heart-lung machine support will ordinarily result in passive

euthanasia. The Court also put non-administration of life

saving medicines like antibiotics in certain situations on the

same platform of passive euthanasia. Denying food to a

person in coma or PVS has also been treated to come within

the ambit of passive euthanasia. The Court copiously referred

to the decision in Airedale. In Airedale case, as has been

noted in Aruna Shanbaug, Lord Goff observed that

discontinuance of artificial feeding in such cases is not

equivalent to cutting a mountaineer‘s rope or severing the air

pipe of a deep sea diver. The real question has to be not

whether the doctor should take a course in which he will

actively kill his patient but whether he should continue to

provide his patient with medical treatment or care which, if

continued, will prolong his life. 28. Lord Browne–Wilkinson was of the view that removing

the nasogastric tube in the case of Anthony Bland cannot be

regarded as a positive act causing death. The tube by itself,

without the food being supplied through it, does nothing. Its

non-removal by itself does not cause death since by itself, it

does not sustain life. The learned Judge observed that removal

of the tube would not constitute the actus reus of murder

since such an act by itself would not cause death. 29. Lord Mustill observed:- 30. The two-Judge Bench further observed that the decision

in Airedale by the House of Lords has been followed in a

number of cases in U.K. and the law is now fairly well settled

that in the case of incompetent patients, if the doctors act on

the basis of notified medical opinion and withdraw the

artificial life support system in the patient‘s best interest, the

said act cannot be regarded as a crime. The learned Judges

posed the question as to who is to decide what is that patient‘s

best interest where he is in a PVS and, in that regard, opined

that it is ultimately for the Court to decide, as parens patriae,

as to what is in the best interest of the patient, though the

wishes of close relatives and next friend and the opinion of

medical practitioners should be given due weight in coming to

its decision. For the said purpose, reference was made to the

opinion of Balcombe J. in Re J (A Minor) (Wardship: Medical

Treatment) 14 whereby it has been stated that the Court as

representative of the Sovereign and as parens patriae will

adopt the same standard which a reasonable and responsible

parent would do. 14 [1991] 2 WLR 140: [1990] 3 All ER 930: [1991] Fam 33 37 31. The two-Judge Bench referred to the decisions of the

Supreme Court of United States in Washington v.

Glucksberg15 and Vacco v. Quill16 which addressed the issue

whether there was a federal constitutional road to assisted

suicide. Analysing the said decisions and others, the Court

observed that the informed consent doctrine has become

firmly entrenched in American Tort Law and, as a logical

corollary, lays foundation for the doctrine that the patient who

generally possesses the right to consent has the right to refuse

treatment. 32. In the ultimate analysis, the Court opined that the

Airedale case is more apposite to be followed. Thereafter, the

Court adverted to the law in India and ruled that in Gian

Kaur case, this Court had approved the decision of the House

of Lords in Airedale and observed that euthanasia could be

made lawful only by legislation. After so stating, the learned

Judges opined:- This vexed question has been arising often in India
 because there are a large number of cases where
 persons go into coma (due to an accident or some
 other reason) or for some other reason are unable to
 give consent, and then the question arises as to who
 should give consent for withdrawal of life support.
 This is an extremely important question in India
 because of the unfortunate low level of ethical
 standards to which our society has descended, its
 raw and widespread commercialisation, and the
 rampant corruption, and hence, the Court has to be
 very cautious that unscrupulous persons who wish
 to inherit the property of someone may not get him
 eliminated by some crooked method.‖ 33. After so stating, the two-Judge Bench dwelled upon the

concept of brain dead and various other aspects which

included withdrawal of life support of a patient in PVS and, in

that context, ruled thus:- 34. After so laying down, the Court referred to the authorities

in Charan Lal Sahu v. Union of India 17 and State of

Kerala and another v. N.M. Thomas and others 18 and

further opined that the High Court can grant approval for

withdrawing life support of an incompetent person under Article 226 of the Constitution because Article 226 gives

abundant power to the High Court to pass suitable orders on 17 (1990) 1 SCC 613 18 (1976) 2 SCC 310 40 the application filed by the near relatives or next friend or the

doctors/hospital staff praying for permission to withdraw the

life support of an incompetent person. Dealing with the

procedure to be adopted by the High Court when such

application is filed, the Court ruled that when such an

application is filed, the Chief Justice of the High Court should

forthwith constitute a Bench of at least two Judges who

should decide to grant approval or not and before doing so, the

Bench should seek the opinion of a Committee of three

reputed doctors to be nominated by the Bench after consulting

such medical authorities/medical practitioners as it may deem

fit. Amongst the three doctors, as directed, one should be a

Neurologist, one should be a Psychiatrist and the third a

Physician. The Court further directed:- 35. We must note here that the two-Judge Bench declined to

grant the permission after perusing the medical reports. For

the sake of completeness, we think it apt to reproduce the

reasoning:- 36. The aforesaid matter was decided when the present Writ

Petition was pending for consideration. The present petition

was, thereafter, listed before a three-Judge Bench which noted

the submissions advanced on behalf of the petitioner and also

that of the learned Additional Solicitor General on behalf of the

Union of India. Reliance was placed on the decision in Aruna

Shanbaug. The three-Judge Bench reproduced paragraphs 24

and 25 from Gian Kaur and noted that the Constitution

Bench did not express any binding view on the subject of

euthanasia, rather it reiterated that the legislature would be

the appropriate authority to bring the change. 37. After so holding, it referred to the understanding of Gian

Kaur in Aruna Shanbaug by the two-Judge Bench and

reproduced paragraphs 21 and 101 from the said judgment:- 43 38. Commenting on the said analysis, the three-Judge Bench

went on to say:- 39. From the aforesaid, it is clear that the three-Judge Bench

expressed the view that the opinion of the House of Lords in

Airedale has not been approved in Gian Kaur (supra) and to

that extent, the observation in Aruna Shanbaug (supra) is

incorrect. After so stating, the three-Judge Bench opined that Aruna Shanbaug (supra) upholds the authority of passive

euthanasia and lays down an elaborate procedure for

executing the same on the wrong premise that the

Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur (supra) had upheld the 45 same. Thereafter, considering the important question of law

involved which needs to be reflected in the light of social, legal,

medical and constitutional perspectives, in order to have a

clear enunciation of law, it referred the matter for

consideration by the Constitution Bench of this Court for the

benefit of humanity as a whole. The three-Judge bench further

observed that it was refraining from framing any specific

questions for consideration by the Constitution Bench as it

would like the Constitution Bench to go into all the aspects of

the matter and lay down exhaustive guidelines. That is how

the matter has been placed before us. E. Our analysis of Gian Kaur: 40. It is the first and foremost duty to understand what has

been stated by the Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur‘s case. It

has referred to the decision in Airedale (supra) that has been

recapitulated in Aruna Shanbaug case which was a case

relating to withdrawal of artificial measures of continuance of

life by the physician. It is relevant to mention here that the

Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur categorically noted that it

was not necessary to deal with physician–assisted suicide or 46 euthanasia cases though a brief reference to the decisions

cited by the Bar was required to be made. The Constitution

Bench noted that Airedale held that in the context of

existence in the persistent vegetative state of no benefit to the

patient, the principle of sanctity of life, which is the concern of

the State, was not an absolute one. The larger bench further

noticed that in Airedale, it had been stated that in such cases

also, the existing crucial distinction between cases in which a

physician decides not to provide or to continue to provide, for

his patient, treatment or care which could or might prolong

his life, and those in which he decides, for example, by

administering a lethal drug actively to bring his patient‘s life to

an end, was indicated. Thereafter, while again referring to

Airedale case, the larger bench observed that it was a case

relating to withdrawal of artificial measures for continuance of

life by the physician. After so stating, the Court reproduced

the following passage from the opinion of Lord Goff of

Chieveley:- 41. After reproducing the said passage, the Court opined

thus:- 42. At this stage, it is necessary to clear the maze whether

the Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur had accepted what has

been held in Airedale. On a careful and anxious reading of

Gian Kaur, it is noticeable that there has been narration,

reference and notice of the view taken in Airedale case. It is 48 also worth noting that the Court was concerned with the

constitutional validity of Section 309 IPC that deals with

attempt to commit suicide and Section 306 IPC that provides

for abetment to commit suicide. As noted earlier, the

Constitution Bench, while distinguishing the case of a dying

man who is terminally ill or in a persistent vegetative state and

his termination or premature extinction of life, observed that

the said category of cases may fall within the ambit of right to

die with dignity as a part of right to life with dignity when

death due to termination of natural life is inevitable and

imminent and the process of natural death has commenced.

The Constitution Bench further opined that the said cases do

not amount to extinguishing the life but only amount to

accelerating the process of natural death which has already

commenced and, thereafter, the Constitution Bench stated

that the debate with regard to physician assisted suicide

remains inconclusive. The larger Bench has reiterated that the

cases pertaining to premature extinction of life during the

process of certain natural death of patients who are terminally

ill or in persistent vegetative state were of assistance to 49 interpret Article 21 of the Constitution to include therein the

right to curtail the natural span of life. On a seemly

understanding of the judgment in Gian Kaur, we do not find

that it has decried euthanasia as a concept. On the contrary,

it gives an indication that in such situations, it is the

acceleration of the process of dying which may constitute a

part of right to life with dignity so that the period of suffering

is reduced. We are absolutely conscious that a judgment is not

to be construed as a statute but our effort is to understand

what has been really expressed in Gian Kaur. Be it clarified,

it is understood and appreciated that there is a distinction

between a positive or overt act to put an end to life by the

person living his life and termination of life so that an

individual does not remain in a vegetative state or, for that

matter, when the death is certain because of terminal illness

and he remains alive with the artificially assisted medical

system. In Gian Kaur, while dealing with the attempt to

commit suicide, the Court clearly held that when a man

commits suicide, he has to undertake certain positive overt

acts and the genesis of those acts cannot be tested to or be 50 included within the protection of the expression ―right to life‖

under Article 21 of the Constitution. It was also observed that

a dignified procedure of death may include the right of a dying

man to also die with dignity when the life is ebbing out. This

is how the pronouncement in Gian Kaur has to be

understood. It is also not the ratio of the authority in Gian

Kaur that euthanasia has to be introduced only by a

legislation. What has been stated in paragraph 41 of Gian

Kaur is what has been understood to have been held in

Airedale‘s case. The Court has neither expressed any

independent opinion nor has it approved the said part or the

ratio as stated in Airedale. There has been only a reference to

Airedale‘s case and the view expressed therein as regards

legislation. Therefore, the perception in Aruna Shanbaug that

the Constitution Bench has approved the decision in

Airedale is not correct. It is also quite clear that Gian Kaur

does not lay down that passive euthanasia can only be

thought of or given effect to by legislation. Appositely

understood, it opens an expansive sphere of Article 21 of the

Constitution. Therefore, it can be held without any hesitation 51 that Gian Kaur has neither given any definite opinion with

regard to euthanasia nor has it stated that the same can be

conceived of only by a legislation. F. Our analysis of Aruna Shanbaug qua legislation: 43. Having said this, we shall focus in detail what has been

stated in Aruna Shanbaug. In paragraph 101 which has

been reproduced hereinbefore, the two-Judge Bench noted

that Gian Kaur has approved the decision of the House of

Lords in Airedale and observed that euthanasia could be

made lawful only by legislation. This perception, according to

us, is not correct. As already stated, Gian Kaur does not lay

down that passive euthanasia could be made lawful only by

legislation. In paragraph 41 of the said judgment, the

Constitution Bench was only adverting to what has been

stated by Lord Goff of Chieveley in Airedale‘s case. However,

this expression of view of Aruna Shanbaug which has not

been accepted by the referral Bench makes no difference to

our present analysis. We unequivocally express the opinion

that Gian Kaur is not a binding precedent for the purpose of 52 laying down the principle that passive euthanasia can be

made lawful ―only by legislation.‖

G. The Distinction between Active and Passive
 Euthanasia: 44. As a first step, it is imperative to understand the concept

of euthanasia before we enter into the arena of analysis of the

expanded right of Article 21 in Gian Kaur and the

understanding of the same. Euthanasia is basically an

intentional premature termination of another person‘s life

either by direct intervention (active euthanasia) or by

withholding life-prolonging measures and resources (passive

euthanasia) either at the express or implied request of that

person (voluntary euthanasia) or in the absence of such

approval/consent (non-voluntary euthanasia). Aruna

Shanbaug has discussed about two categories of euthanasia -

active and passive. While dealing with active euthanasia, also

known as ―positive euthanasia‖ or ―aggressive euthanasia‖, it

has been stated that the said type of euthanasia entails a

positive act or affirmative action or act of commission entailing

the use of lethal substances or forces to cause the intentional 53 death of a person by direct intervention, e.g., a lethal injection

given to a person with terminal cancer who is in terrible

agony. Passive euthanasia, on the other hand, also called

―negative euthanasia‖ or ―non-aggressive euthanasia‖, entails

withdrawing of life support measures or withholding of

medical treatment for continuance of life, e.g., withholding of

antibiotics in case of a patient where death is likely to occur as

a result of not giving the said antibiotics or removal of the

heart lung machine from a patient in coma. The two-Judge

Bench has also observed that the legal position across the

world seems to be that while active euthanasia is illegal unless

there is a legislation permitting it, passive euthanasia is legal

even without legislation, provided certain conditions and

safeguards are maintained. The Court has drawn further

distinction between voluntary euthanasia and non-voluntary

euthanasia in the sense that voluntary euthanasia is where

the consent is taken from the patient and non-voluntary

euthanasia is where the consent is unavailable, for instances

when the patient is in coma or is otherwise unable to give

consent. Describing further about active euthanasia, the 54 Division Bench has observed that the said type of euthanasia

involves taking specific steps to cause the patient‘s death such

as injecting the patient with some lethal substance, i.e.,

sodium pentothal which causes, in a person, a state of deep

sleep in a few seconds and the person instantly dies in that

state. That apart, the Court has drawn a distinction between

euthanasia and physician assisted dying and noted that the

difference lies in the fact as to who administers the lethal

medication. It has been observed that in euthanasia, a

physician or third party administers it while in physician

assisted suicide, it is the patient who does it though on the

advice of the doctor. Elaborating further, the two-Judge

Bench has opined that the predominant difference between

―active‖ and ―passive‖ euthanasia is that in the former, a

specific act is done to end the patient‘s life while the latter

covers a situation where something is not done which is

necessary in preserving the patient‘s life. The main idea

behind the distinction, as observed by the Bench, is that in

passive euthanasia, the doctors are not actively killing the

patient, they are merely not saving him and only accelerating 55 the conclusion of the process of natural death which has

already commenced. 45. The two-Judge Bench, thereafter, elaborated on passive

euthanasia and gave more examples of cases within the ambit

of passive euthanasia. The learned Judges further categorized

passive euthanasia into voluntary passive euthanasia and

non-voluntary passive euthanasia. The learned Judges

described voluntary passive euthanasia as a situation where a

person who is capable of deciding for himself decides that he

would prefer to die because of various reasons whereas non-

voluntary passive euthanasia has been described to mean that

a person is not in a position to decide for himself, e.g., if he is

in coma or PVS. 46. While scrutinizing the distinction between active and

passive euthanasia, the paramount aspect is ―foreseeing the

hastening of death‖. The said view has been propagated in

several decisions all over the world. The Supreme Court of

Canada, in the case of Rodriguez v. British Columbia 56 (Attorney General)19, drew the distinction between these two

forms of euthanasia on the basis of intention. Echoing a

similar view, the Supreme Court of the United States affirmed

the said distinction on the basis of ―intention‖ in the case of

Vacco (supra) wherein Chief Justice Rehnquist observed that

the said distinction coheres with the fundamental legal

principles of causation and intention. In case when the death

of a patient occurs due to removal of life-supporting measures,

the patient dies due to an underlying fatal disease without any

intervening act on the part of the doctor or medical

practitioner, whereas in the cases coming within the purview

of active euthanasia, for example, when the patient ingests

lethal medication, he is killed by that medication. 47. This distinction on the basis of ―intention‖ further finds

support in the explanation provided in the case In the matter

of Claire C. Conroy20 wherein the Court made an observation

that people who refuse life-sustaining medical treatment may

not harbour a specific intent to die, rather they may fervently 19 85 C.C.C. (3d) 15 : (1993) 3 S.C.R. 519 20 98 N.J. 321 (1985) : (1985) 486 A.2d 1209 (N.J.) 57 wish to live but do so free of unwanted medical technology,

surgery or drugs and without protracted suffering. 48. Another distinction on the basis of ―action and non-

action‖ was advanced in the Airedale case. Drawing a crucial

distinction between the two forms of euthanasia, Lord Goff

observed that passive euthanasia includes cases in which a

doctor decides not to provide, or to continue to provide, for his

patient, treatment or care which could prolong his life and

active euthanasia involves actively ending a patient‘s life, for

example, by administering a lethal drug. As per the

observations made by Lord Goff, the former can be considered

lawful either because the doctor intends to give effect to his

patient‘s wishes by withholding the treatment or care, or even

in certain circumstances in which the patient is incapacitated

from giving his consent. However, active euthanasia, even

voluntary, is impermissible despite being prompted by the

humanitarian desire to end the suffering of the patient. 49. It is perhaps due to the distinction evolved between these

two forms of euthanasia, which has gained moral and legal 58 sanctity all over, that most of the countries today have

legalized passive euthanasia either by way of legislations or

through judicial interpretation but there remains uncertainty

whether active euthanasia should be granted legal status.

H. Euthanasia : International Position: 50. In the obtaining situation, we shall now advert to the

opinions stated in Airedale case. In the said case, one

Anthony Bland, a supporter of Liverpool Football Club, who

had gone to Hillsborough Ground, suffered severe injuries as a

result of which supply to his brain was interrupted.

Eventually, he suffered an irreversible damage to the brain as

a consequence of which he got into a condition of persistent

vegetative state (PVS). He became incapable of voluntary

movement and could feel no pain. He was not in a position to

feel or communicate. To keep him alive, artificial means were

taken recourse to. In such a state of affairs, the treating

doctors and the parents of Bland felt that no fruitful purpose

would be served by continuing the medical aid. As there were 59 doubts with regard to stoppage of medical care which may

incur a criminal liability, a declaration from the British High

Court was sought to resolve the doubts. The Family Division

of the High Court granted the declaration which was affirmed

by the Court of Appeal. The matter travelled to the House of

Lords. 51. Lord Keith of Kinkel opined that regard should be had to

the whole artificial regime which kept Anthony Bland alive and

it was incorrect to direct attention exclusively to the fact that

nourishment was being provided. In his view, the

administration of nourishment by the means adopted involved

the application of a medical technique. 52. Lord Keith observed that in general, it would not be

lawful for a medical practitioner who assumed responsibility

for the care of an unconscious patient simply to give up

treatment in circumstances where continuance of it would

confer some benefit on the patient. On the other hand, a

medical practitioner is under no duty to continue to treat such

a patient where a large body of informed and responsible 60 medical opinion is to the effect that no benefit at all would be

conferred by continuance of treatment. Existence in a

vegetative state with no prospect of recovery is, by that

opinion, regarded as not being a benefit, and that, if not

unarguably correct, at least forms a proper basis for the

decision to discontinue treatment and care. He was of the

further opinion that since existence in PVS is not a benefit to

the patient, the principle of sanctity of life is no longer an

absolute one. It does not compel a medical practitioner to treat

a patient, who will die if not treated, contrary to the express

wishes of the patient. It does not compel the temporary

keeping alive of patients who are terminally ill where to do so

would merely prolong their suffering. On the other hand, it

forbids the taking of active measures to cut short the life of a

terminally ill patient. 53. Lord Keith further stated that it does no violence to the

principle of sanctity of life to hold that it is lawful to cease to

give medical treatment and care to a PVS patient who has

been in that state for over three years considering that to do so

involves invasive manipulation of the patient's body to which 61 he has not consented and which confers no benefit upon him.

He also observed that the decision whether or not the

continued treatment and care of a PVS patient confers any

benefit on him is essentially one for the practitioners in

charge. 54. Lord Goff of Chieveley also held that the principle of

sanctity of life is not an absolute one and there is no absolute

rule that the patient's life must be prolonged by such

treatment or care, if available, regardless of the

circumstances. 55. Lord Goff observed that though he agreed that the

doctor's conduct in discontinuing life support can properly be

categorised as an omission, yet discontinuation of life support

is, for the present purposes, no different from not initiating life

support in the first place as in such a case, the doctor is

simply allowing his patient to die in the sense that he is

desisting from taking a step which might, in certain

circumstances, prevent his patient from dying as a result of

his pre-existing condition; and as a matter of general 62 principle, an omission such as this will not be unlawful unless

it constitutes a breach of duty to the patient. 56. The learned Law Lord further observed that the doctor's

conduct is to be differentiated from that of, for example, an

interloper who maliciously switches off a life support machine

in the sense that although the interloper performs the same

act as the doctor who discontinues life support, yet the doctor,

in discontinuing life support, is simply allowing his patient to

die of his pre-existing condition, whereas the interloper is

actively intervening to stop the doctor from prolonging the

patient's life, and such conduct cannot possibly be categorised

as an omission. This distinction as per Lord Goff appears to be

useful in the context as it can be invoked to explain how

discontinuance of life support can be differentiated from

ending a patient's life by a lethal injection. Lord Goff stated

that the reason for this difference is that the law considers

discontinuance of life support to be consistent with the

doctor's duty to care for his patient, but it does not, for

reasons of policy, consider that it forms any part of his duty to 63 give his patient a lethal injection to put the patient out of his

agony. 57. Emphasising on the patient's best interest principle, Lord

Goff referred to F v. West Berkshire Health Authority 21

wherein the House of Lords stated the legal principles

governing the treatment of a patient who, for the reason that

he was of unsound mind or that he had been rendered

unconscious by accident or by illness, was incapable of stating

whether or not he consented to the treatment or care. In such

circumstances, a doctor may lawfully treat such a patient if he

acts in his best interests, and indeed, if the patient is already

in his care, he is under a duty so to treat him. 58. Drawing an analogy, Lord Goff opined that a decision by

a doctor whether or not to initiate or to continue to provide

treatment or care which could or might have the effect of

prolonging such a patient's life should also be governed by the

same fundamental principle of the patient's best interest. The

learned Law Lord further stated that the doctor who is caring

for such a patient cannot be put under an absolute obligation 21 [1989] 2 All ER 545 : [1990] 2 AC 1 64 to prolong his life by any means available to the doctor,

regardless of the quality of the patient's life. Common

humanity requires otherwise as do medical ethics and good

medical practice accepted in the United Kingdom and

overseas. Lord Goff said that the doctor's decision to take or

not to take any step must be made in the best interests of the

patient (subject to his patient's ability to give or withhold his

consent). 59. Lord Goff further stated that in such cases, the question

is not whether it is in the best interests of the patient that he

should die, rather the correct question for consideration is

whether it is in the best interests of the patient that his life

should be prolonged by the continuance of such form of

medical treatment or care. In Lord Goff‘s view, the correct

formulation of the question is of particular importance in such

cases as the patient is totally unconscious and there is no

hope whatsoever of any amelioration of his condition. Lord

Goff opined that if the question is asked whether it is in the

best interests of the patient to continue the treatment which

has the effect of artificially prolonging his life, that question 65 can sensibly be answered to the effect that the patient's best

interests no longer require such a treatment to be continued. 60. Lord Goff opined that medical treatment is neither

appropriate nor requisite simply to prolong a patient's life

when such treatment has no therapeutic purpose of any kind

and such treatment is futile because the patient is

unconscious and there is no prospect of any improvement in

his condition. Thereafter, the learned Law Lord observed that

regard should also be had to the invasive character of the

treatment and to the indignity to which a patient is subjected

by prolonging his life by artificial means which, in turn,

causes considerable distress to his family. In such cases, Lord

Goff said that it is the futility of the treatment which justifies

its termination and in such circumstances, a doctor is not

required to initiate or to continue life- prolonging treatment or

care keeping in mind the best interests of the patient. 61. Lord Goff, referring to West Berkshire Health

Authority (supra), said that it was stated therein that where a

doctor provides treatment to a person who is incapacitated 66 from saying whether or not he consents to it, the doctor must,

when deciding on the form of treatment, act in accordance

with a responsible and competent body of relevant professional

opinion on the principles set down in Bolam v. Friern

Hospital Management Committee 22 . Lord Goff opined that

this principle must equally be applicable to decisions to

initiate or to discontinue life support as it is to other forms of

treatment. He also referred to a Discussion Paper on

Treatment of Patients in Persistent Vegetative State issued in

September, 1992 by the Medical Ethics Committee of the

British Medical Association pertaining to four safeguards in

particular which, in the Committee's opinion, should be

observed before discontinuing life support for such patients,

which were: (1) every effort should be made at rehabilitation

for at least six months after the injury; (2) the diagnosis of

irreversible PVS should not be considered confirmed until at

least 12 months after the injury with the effect that any

decision to withhold life-prolonging treatment will be delayed

for that period; (3) the diagnosis should be agreed by two other 22 [1957] 1 W.L.R. 582 : [1957] 2 All ER 118 67 independent doctors; and (4) generally, the wishes of the

patient's immediate family will be given great weight. 62. According to him, the views expressed by the

Committee on the subject of consultation with the relatives of

PVS patients are consistent with the opinion expressed by the

House of Lords in West Berkshire Health Authority (supra)

that it is good practice for the doctor to consult relatives. Lord

Goff observed that the Committee was firmly of the opinion

that the relatives' views would not be determinative of the

treatment inasmuch as if that would have been the case, the

relatives would be able to dictate to the doctors what is in the

best interests of the patient which cannot be right. Even so, a

decision to withhold life-prolonging treatment such as

artificial feeding must require close cooperation with those

close to the patient and it is recognised that, in practice, their

views and the opinions of doctors will coincide in many cases. 63. Thereafter, Lord Goff referred to American cases, namely,

Re Quinlan 23 and Superintendent of Belchertown State 23 355 A. 2d 647 : (1976) 70 NJ 10 68 School v. Saikewicz24 wherein the American Courts adopted

what is called the substituted judgment test which involves a

detailed inquiry into the patient's views and preferences. As

per the substituted judgment test, when the patient is

incapacitated from expressing any view on the question

whether life-prolonging treatment should be withheld, an

attempt is made to determine what decision the patient

himself would have made had he been able to do so. In later

American cases concerning PVS patients, it has been held that

in the absence of clear and convincing evidence of the patient's

wishes, the surrogate decision-maker has to implement as far

as possible the decision which the incompetent patient would

have made if he was competent. 64. However, Lord Goff acknowledged that any such test

(substituted judgment test) does not form part of English law

in relation to incompetent adults on whose behalf nobody has

power to give consent to medical treatment. In contrast,

England followed a straightforward test based on the best

interests of the patient coined by the House of Lords in West 24 (1977) 373 Mass 728 : 370 N.E. 2d 417 (1977) 69 Berkshire Health Authority (supra). He opined that the

same test (patient's best interest) should be applied in the

case of PVS patients where the question is whether life-

prolonging treatment should be withheld. The learned Law

Lord further observed that consistent with the best interests

test, anything relevant to the application of the test may also

be taken into account and if the personality of the patient is

relevant to the application of the test (as it may be in cases

where the various relevant factors have to be weighed), it may

be taken into account as was done in Re J. (A Minor)

(Wardship: Medical Treatment) (supra). But where the

question is whether life support should be withheld from a

PVS patient, it is difficult to see how the personality of the

patient can be relevant, though it may be of comfort to his

relatives if they believe, as in the present case, and indeed

may well be so in many other cases, that the patient would

not have wished his life to be artificially prolonged if he was

totally unconscious and there was no hope of improvement in

his condition. 65. As regards the extent to which doctors should, as a

matter of practice, seek the guidance of the court by way of an

application for declaratory relief before withholding life-

prolonging treatment from a PVS patient, Lord Goff took note

of the judgment of Sir Stephen Brown P, the President of the

Family Division, wherein he held that the opinion of the court

should be sought in all cases of similar nature. Lord Goff also

noted that Sir Thomas Bingham M.R. in the Court of Appeal

expressed his agreement with Sir Stephen Brown P. in the

following words:- 66. It is worthy to mention that Lord Goff was of the view

that there was a considerable cost involved in obtaining

guidance from the court in cases of such nature. He took note

of the suggestions forwarded by Mr. Francis, the counsel for 71 the respondents, to the effect that reference to the court was

required in certain specific cases, i.e., (1) where there was

known to be a medical disagreement as to the diagnosis or

prognosis, and (2) problems had arisen with the patient‘s

relatives-disagreement by the next of kin with the medical

recommendation; actual or apparent conflict of interest

between the next of kin and the patient; dispute between

members of the patient‘s family; or absence of any next of kin

to give consent. Lord Goff said that the President of the Family

Division should be able to relax the present requirement so as

to limit applications for declarations only to those cases in

which there is a special need for the procedure to be invoked. 67. Lord Mustill observed that an argument had been

advanced that it was in the best interest of the community at

large that Anthony Bland‘s life should end. The doctors had

done all they could have done. It was a lose-lose situation as

nothing would be gained by continuing Bland‘s treatment and

much would be lost. The distress of Bland‘s family members

would steadily get worse and so would be the strain of the

medical staff charged with the care of Bland despite the fact 72 that Bland's condition would never improve and he would

never recognize that he was being cared for. Further, the

learned Law Lord observed that large resources in terms of

skill, labour and money had been applied for maintaining

Bland in his present condition which, in the opinion of many,

could be fruitfully employed in improving the conditions of

other patients who, if treated, may have useful, healthy and

enjoyable lives for years to come. 68. Lord Lowry, agreeing with the reasoning of Lord Goff of

Chieveley with whom the other learned Law Lords were also in

general agreement, dismissed the appeal. In coming to this

conclusion, Lord Lowry opined that the court, in reaching a

decision according to law, ought to give weight to informed

medical opinion both on the point whether to continue the

artificial feeding regime of a patient in PVS and also on the

question of what is in the best interests of a patient. Lord

Lowry rejected the idea that informed medical opinion in these

respects was merely a disguise which, if accepted, would

legalise euthanasia. Lord Lowry also rejected the Official

Solicitor's argument that the doctors were under a "duty to 73 feed" their patients in PVS as in the instant case, the doctors

overwhelmingly held the opposite view which had been upheld

by the courts below. The doctors considered that it was in the

patient's best interests that they should stop feeding him. Lord

Lowry observed that the learned Law Lords had gone further

by saying that the doctors are not entitled to feed a patient in

PVS without his consent which cannot be obtained. 69. Lord Lowry further opined that there is no proposed

guilty act in stopping the artificial feeding regime inasmuch as

if it is not in the interests of an insentient patient to continue

the life- supporting care and treatment, the doctor would be

acting unlawfully if he continued the care and treatment and

would perform no guilty act by discontinuing it. There is a gap

between the old law on the one hand and new medicine and

new ethics on the other. It is important, particularly in the

area of criminal law which governs conduct, that the society's

notions of what the law is and what is right should coincide.

One role of the legislator, as per Lord Lowry, is to detect any

disparity between these notions and to take appropriate action

to close the gap. 70. Lord Browne-Wilkinson observed that the ability to

sustain life artificially is a relatively recent phenomenon.

Existing law may not provide an acceptable answer to the new

legal questions which it raises. 71. In the opinion of the learned Law Lord, there exists no

doubt that it is for the Parliament and not the courts to decide

the broader issues raised by cases of such nature. He

observed that recent developments in medical science have

fundamentally changed the meaning of death. In medicine, the

cessation of breathing or of heartbeat is no longer death

because by the use of a ventilator, lungs which in the unaided

course of nature stop breathing can be made to breathe

artificially thereby sustaining the heartbeat. Thus, people like

Anthony Bland, who would have previously died through

inability to swallow food, can be kept alive by artificial feeding.

This has led the medical profession, in Lord Browne-

Wilkinson's view, to redefine death in terms of brain stem

death, i.e., the death of that part of the brain without which

the body cannot function at all without assistance. He further

said that if the judges seek to develop new law to regulate the 75 new circumstances, the law so laid down will reflect the

judges' views on the underlying ethical questions, questions

on which there is a legitimate division of opinion. He

proceeded to state that where a case raises wholly new moral

and social issues, it is neither for the judges to develop new

principles of law nor would it be legitimate for the Judges to

arrive at a conclusion as to what is for the benefit of one

individual whose life is in issue. 72. For the said reasons, the learned Law Lord observed that

it is imperative that the moral, social and legal issues raised

by the case at hand should be considered by the Parliament

and only if the Parliament fails to act, the judge-made law

will, by necessity, provide a legal answer to each new question

as and when it arises. 73. The function of the court, in Lord Browne-Wilkinson's

view, in such circumstances is to determine a particular case

in accordance with the existing law and not to develop new

law laying down a new regimen. He held that it is for the

Parliament to address the wider problems which such a case

raises and lay down principles of law generally applicable to 76 the withdrawal of life support systems. He explained why the

removal of the nasogastric tube in the present case could not

be regarded as a positive act causing death since the tube

itself, without the food being supplied through it, does

nothing. The removal of the tube by itself does not cause

death since it does not sustain life by itself. Therefore, the

removal of the tube would not constitute the actus reus of

murder since such positive act would not be the cause of

death. 74. Thus, Lord Browne-Wilkinson observed that in case of an

adult who is mentally competent, the artificial feeding regime

would be unlawful unless the patient consented to it as a

mentally competent patient can, at any time, put an end to life

support systems by refusing his consent to their continuation.

He also observed that the House of Lords in West Berkshire

Health Authority (supra) developed the principle based on

the concept of necessity under which a doctor can lawfully

treat a patient who cannot consent to such treatment if it is in

the best interests of the patient to receive such treatment. The

learned Law Lord opined that the correct answer to the case at 77 hand depends on the extent of the right to lawfully continue to

invade the bodily integrity of Anthony Bland without his

consent. To determine the extent of the said right, Lord

Browne-Wilkinson observed that it can be deduced from West

Berkshire Health Authority (supra) wherein both Lord

Brandon of Oakbrook and Lord Goff made it clear that the

right to administer invasive medical care is wholly dependent

upon such care being in the best interests of the patient and

moreover, a doctor's decision whether to continue invasive

care is in the best interests of the patient has to be assessed

with reference to the test laid down in Bolam (supra). 75. Lord Browne-Wilkinson held that if there comes a stage

where a responsible doctor comes to the reasonable

conclusion (which accords with the views of a responsible body

of medical opinion) that further continuance of an intrusive

life support system is not in the best interests of the patient,

the doctor can no longer lawfully continue that life support

system as to do so would constitute the crime of battery and

the tort of trespass. 76. In Lord Browne-Wilkinson‘s view, the correct legal

question in such cases is not whether the court thinks it is in

the best interests of the patient in PVS to continue to receive

intrusive medical care but whether the doctor responsible has

arrived at a reasonable and bona fide belief that it is not in the

best interests of the patient to continue to receive artificial

medical regime. 77. Accordingly, Lord Browne-Wilkinson observed that on an

application to the court for a declaration that the

discontinuance of medical care will be lawful, the sole concern

of the courts is to be satisfied that the doctor's decision to

discontinue is in accordance with a respectable body of

medical opinion and that it is reasonable. Adverting to various

passages, Lord Browne-Wilkinson dismissed the appeal. 78. It is pertinent to mention here that in adopting the ―best

interests‖ principle in Airedale, the House of Lords followed

its earlier decision in In re F (Mental Patient : Lord Sumption suggests in para 212-213 below that 85 it remains morally wrong and contrary to public
 policy for a person to commit suicide. Blackstone, in
 his Commentaries on the Laws of England, Book 4,
 Chapter 14, wrote that suicide was also a spiritual
 offence ―in evading the prerogative of the Almighty,
 and rushing into his immediate presence uncalled
 for‖. If expressed in modern religious terms, that
 view would still command substantial support and a
 moral argument against committing suicide could
 convincingly be cast in entirely non-religious terms.
 Whether, however, it can be elevated into an overall
 conclusion about moral wrong and public policy is
 much more difficult.‖ 85. Lord Sumption commenced the judgment stating that

English judges tend to avoid addressing the moral foundations

of law. It is not their function to lay down principles of

morality and the attempt leads to large generalisations which

are commonly thought to be unhelpful. He further observed

that in some cases, however, it is unavoidable and this is one

of them. He referred to the opinion of Hoffmann LJ in

Airedale case and the concept of sanctity of life and,

eventually, reproduced a passage from Hoffmann LJ and

opined:- 86. Dealing with the appeal by Nicklinson, Lord Sumption

referred to the view of the Canadian Supreme Court in

Rodriguez (supra) and opined:- 87. Dealing with Martin‘s appeal, Lord Sumption dismissed

the same. While doing so, he said:- 88. Lord Hughes agreed with the reasoning of Lord Sumption

and dismissed the private appeals and allowed the Appeals

preferred by the Director of Public Prosecutions. Lord Clarke

concurred with the reasoning given by Lord Sumption, Lord

Reed and Lord Hughes. Lord Reed agreed with the view with

regard to the dismissal of the appeals but observed some

aspects with regard to the issue of compatibility. 89. Lord Lady Hale entirely agreed with the judgment of Lord

Neuberger. Lord Kerr in his opinion stated:- 90. In the United States of America, active euthanasia is

illegal but physician-assisted death is legal in the States of

Oregon, Washington and Montana. A distinction has been

drawn between euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide. In 90 both Oregon and Washington, only self-assisted dying is

permitted. Doctor-administered assisted dying and any form of

assistance to help a person commit suicide outside the

provisions of the legislation remains a criminal offence. 91. As far as the United States of America is concerned, we

think it appropriate to refer to Cruzan (supra). The said case

involved a 30 year old Missouri woman who was lingering in a

permanent vegetative state as a result of a car accident.

Missouri requires 'clear and convincing evidence' of patients'

preferences and the Missouri Supreme Court, reversing the

decision of the state trial court, rejected the parents' request to

impose a duty on their daughter's physician to end life-

support. The United States Supreme Court upheld that States

can require 'clear and convincing evidence' of a patient's desire

in order to oblige physicians to respect this desire. Since

Nancy Cruzan had not clearly expressed her desire to

terminate life support in such a situation, physicians were not

obliged to follow the parents' request. 92. Chief Justice Rehnquist, in his opinion, stated:- 91 93. Meeting the submissions on behalf of the petitioner, the

learned Chief Justice opined:- 94. The learned Chief Justice came to hold that there was no

clear and convincing evidence to prove that the patient‘s desire

was not to have hydration and nutrition. In the ultimate

analysis, it was stated:- 95. The question that was presented before the Court was

whether New York‘s prohibition on assisted suicide violates the

Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The

Court held that it did not and in the course of the discussion,

Chief Justice Rehnquist held:- 96. In Vacco (supra), while ruling that a New York ban on

physician assisted suicide was constitutional, the Supreme

Court of the United States applied the standard of intent to

the matter finding that a doctor who withdraws life support at

the request of his patient intends only to respect his patient‘s

wishes. This, the Court said, is in sharp contrast to a doctor

who honours a patient‘s request to end life which necessarily

requires more than an intent to respect the patient‘s wishes,

i.e., it requires the intent to kill the patient. A major difference,

the Court determined, in the two scenarios is that the former

may cause the patient to die from underlying causes while the

latter will cause the patient to die. The Court noted that the

law plainly recognized the difference between ―killing‖ and

―letting die‖. It also recognised that the State of New York had,

as a matter of policy, a compelling interest in forbidding 96 assisted suicide, while allowing a patient to refuse life support

was simply an act of protecting a common law right which was

the right to retain bodily integrity and preserve individual

antonomy since the prevention of ―unwanted touching‖ was, in

the opinion of the Court, a very legitimate right to protect.

H.3 Australian Jurisdiction: 97. Moving to Australian jurisdiction, in Hunter and New

England Area Health Service v. A31, the Supreme Court of

New South Wales considered the validity of a common law

advance directive (there being no legislative provisions for such

directives in NSW) given by Mr. A refusing kidney dialysis.

One year after making the directive, Mr. A was admitted to a

hospital emergency department in a critical state with

decreased level of consciousness. His condition deteriorated to

the point that he was being kept alive by mechanical

ventilation and kidney dialysis. The hospital sought a judicial

declaration to determine the validity of his advance directive.

The Court, speaking through McDougall J., confirmed the

directive and held that the hospital must respect the advance 31 [2009] NSWSC 761 97 directive. Applying the common law principle, the Court

observed:- 98. In Brightwater Care Group (Inc.) v. Rossiter 32 , the

Court was concerned with an anticipatory refusal of treatment

by Mr. Rossiter, a man with quadriplegia who was unable to

undertake any basic human function including taking

nutrition or hydration orally. Mr. Rossiter was not terminally

ill, dying or in a vegetative state and had full mental capacity.

He had ‗clearly and unequivocally‘ indicated that he did not

wish to continue to receive medical treatment which, if

discontinued, would inevitably lead to his death. Martin, CJ,

considering the facts and the common law principle, held :- 99. In Australian Capital Territory v. JT33, an application

to stop medical treatment, other than palliative care, was

rejected. The man receiving treatment suffered from paranoid

schizophrenia and was, therefore, held not mentally capable of

making a decision regarding his treatment. Chief Justice

Higgins found that it would be unlawful for the service

providers to stop providing treatment. The Chief Justice

distinguished this situation from Rossiter as the patient

lacked ‗both understanding of the proposed conduct and the

capacity to give informed consent to it‘. It is clear that mental

capacity is the determining factor in cases relating to self-

determination. Since the right of self-determination requires

the ability to make an informed choice about the future, the

requirement of mental capacity would be an obvious

prerequisite. Chief Justice Higgins undertook a detailed 33 [2009] ACTSC 105 99 analysis and rightly distinguished Auckland Area Health

Board v. Attorney-General34 in which a court similarly bound

to apply the human right to life and the prohibition on cruel

and degrading treatment found that futile treatment could be

withdrawn from a patient in a persistent vegetative state. He

agreed with Howie J. in Messiha v. South East Health35 that

futility of treatment could only be determined by consideration

of the best interests of the patient and not by reference to the

convenience of medical cares or their institutions. 100. The above decision basically considered the

circumstances in which technically futile treatment may be

withdrawn from patients at their direct or indirect request or

in their best interests. H.4 Legal Position in Canada: 101. In Canada, physician-assisted suicide is illegal as per Section 241(b) of the Criminal Code of Canada. The Supreme

Court of Canada in Rodriguez (supra) has drawn a distinction

between ―intentional actor‖ and ―merely foreseeing‖.

Delivering the judgment on behalf of the majority, Justice 34 [1993] NZLR 235 35 [2004] NSWSC 1061 100 Sopinka rejected the argument that assisted suicide was

similar to the withdrawal of life-preserving treatment at the

patient‘s request. He also rejected the argument that the

distinction between assisted suicide and accepted medical

treatment was even more attenuated in the case of palliative

treatment which was known to hasten death. He observed:- 102. The Supreme Court of Canada in Carter v. Canada

(Attorney General)36 held that the prohibition on physician-

assisted death in Canada (in Sections 14 and 241(b) of the

Canadian Criminal Code) unjustifiably infringed the right to

life, liberty and security of the person in Article 7 of the

Charter of Rights and Freedoms in the Canadian Constitution. 36 2015 SCC 5 101 103. The Supreme Court declared the infringing provisions of

the Criminal Code void insofar as they prohibit physician-

assisted death for a competent adult person who (1) clearly

consents to the termination of life; and (2) has a grievous and

irremediable medical condition (including an illness, disease or

disability) that causes enduring suffering that is intolerable to

the individual in the circumstances of his or her condition.

‗Irremediable‘, it should be added, does not require the patient

to undertake treatments that are not acceptable to the

individual. 104. After the Supreme Court‘s decision, the Canadian

Government appointed a Special Joint Committee on

Physician-Assisted Dying to ‗make recommendations on the

framework of a federal response on physician assisted dying in

consonance with the Constitution, the Charter of Rights and

Freedoms, and the priorities of Canadians‘. The Special Joint

Committee released its report in February 2016 recommending

a legislative framework which would regulate ‗medical

assistance in dying‘ by imposing both substantive and

procedural safeguards, namely:- 105. It should be noted that physician assisted dying has

already been legalized in the province of Quebec. Quebec

passed an Act respecting end-of-life care (the Quebec Act) in

June 2014 with most of the Act coming into force on 10

December, 2015. The Quebec Act provides a ‗framework for

end-of-life care‘ which includes ‗continuous palliative sedation‘

and ‗medical aid in dying‘ defined as ‗administration by a

physician of medications or substances to an end-of-life

patient, at the patient‘s request, in order to relieve their

suffering by hastening death. In order to be able to access

medical aid in dying under the Quebec Act, a patient must:- 106. The request for medical aid in dying must be signed by

two physicians. The Quebec Act also established a

Commission on end-of-life care to provide oversight and advice

to the Minister of Health and Social Services on the

implementation of the legislation regarding end-of-life care.

H.5 Other Jurisdictions: 107. Presently, we think it appropriate to deal with certain

legislations in other countries and the decisions in other

jurisdictions. In Aruna Shanbaug, the Court has in detail

referred to the legislations in Netherlands, i.e., the

Termination of Life on Request and Assisted Suicide (Review

Procedures) Act, 2002 that regulates euthanasia. The

provisions of the said Act lay down that euthanasia and

physician-assisted suicide are not punishable if the attending

physician acts in accordance with the criteria of due care. As

the two-Judge Bench has summarized, this criteria concern

the patient‘s request, the patient‘s suffering (unbearable and 105 hopeless), the information provided to the patient, the

presence of reasonable alternatives, consultation of another

physician and the applied method of ending life. To

demonstrate their compliance, the Act requires physicians to

report euthanasia to a Review Committee. It has been

observed that the said Act legalizes euthanasia and physician-

assisted suicide in very specific cases under three specific

conditions and euthanasia remains a criminal offence in cases

not meeting the laid down specific conditions with the

exception of several situations that are not subject to

restrictions of law at all because they are considered normal

medical practice. The three conditions are : stopping or not

starting a medically useless (futile) treatment, stopping or not

starting a treatment at the patient‘s request and speeding up

death as a side effect of treatment necessary for alleviating

serious suffering. 108. Reference has been made to the Swiss Criminal Code

where active euthanasia has been regarded as illegal. Belgium

has legalized the practice of euthanasia with the enactment of

the Belgium Act on Euthanasia of May 28th, 2002 and the 106 patients can wish to end their life if they are under constant

and unbearable physical or psychological pain resulting from

an accident or an incurable illness. The Act allows adults who

are in a ‗futile medical condition of constant and unbearable

physical or mental suffering that cannot be alleviated‘ to

request voluntary euthanasia. Doctors who practise

euthanasia commit no offence if the prescribed conditions and

procedure is followed and the patient has the legal capacity

and the request is made voluntarily and repeatedly with no

external pressure. 109. Luxembourg too has legalized euthanasia with the

passing of the Law of 16th March, 2009 on Euthanasia and

Assisted Suicide (Lux.). The law permits euthanasia and

assisted suicide in relation to those with incurable conditions

with the requirements including repeated requests and the

consent of two doctors and an expert panel. 110. The position in Germany is that active assisted suicide is

illegal. However, this is not the case for passive assisted

suicide. Thus, in Germany, if doctors stop life-prolonging

measures, for instance, on the written wishes of a patient, it is 107 not considered as a criminal offence. That apart, it is legal for

doctors in Germany to administer painkillers to a dying

patient to ease pain. The said painkillers, in turn, cause low

breathing that may lead to respiratory arrest and, ultimately,

death. H.6 International considerations and decisions of the
 European Court of Human Rights (ECHR): 111. Certain relevant obligations when discussing voluntary

euthanasia are contained in the International Covenant on

Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). The following rights in the

ICCPR have been considered by the practice of voluntary

euthanasia: 112. Right to life under Article 6(1) of the ICCPR provides: 113. The UN Human Rights Committee has emphasised that

laws allowing for euthanasia must provide effective procedural

safeguards against abuse if they are to be compatible with the

State‘s obligation to protect the right to life. In 2002, the UN

Committee considered the euthanasia law introduced in the

Netherlands. The Committee stated that:- 114. The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) has

adopted a similar position to the UN Human Rights Committee

when considering euthanasia laws and the right to life in 109 Article 2 of the European Convention for the Protection of

Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (European

Convention). According to the ECHR, the right to life in Article

2 cannot be interpreted as conferring a right to die or a right

to self determination in terms of choosing death rather than

life. However, the ECHR has held that a State‘s obligation to

protect life under that Article does not preclude it from

legalising voluntary euthanasia, provided adequate safeguards

are put in place and adhered to. In Pretty v. United Kingdom

(application no. 2346/02) 37 , the ECHR ruled that the

decision of the applicant to avoid what she considered would

be an undignified and distressing end to her life was part of

the private sphere covered by the scope of Article 8 of the

Convention. The Court affirmed that the right of an individual

to decide how and when to end her life, provided that the said

individual was in a position to make up her own mind in that

respect and to take the appropriate action, was one aspect of

the right to respect for private life under Article 8 of the

Convention. The Court, thus, recognised, with conditions, a 37 [2002] ECHR 423 (29 April, 2002) 110 sort of right to self-determination as to one‘s own death, but

the existence of this right is subject to two conditions, one

linked to the free will of the person concerned and the other

relating to the capacity to take appropriate action. However,

respect for the right to life compels the national authorities to

prevent a person from putting an end to life if such a decision

is not taken freely and with full knowledge. 115. In Hass v. Switzerland (application no. 31322/07)38,

the ECHR explained that:- 116. In a recent decision regarding end of life issues, Lambert

and others v. France (application no. 46043/14) 39 , the

ECHR considered whether the decision to withdraw artificial

nutrition and hydration of Vincent Lambert violated the right

to life in Article 2. Vincent Lambert was involved in a serious

road accident which left him tetraplegic and with permanent

brain damage. He was assessed in expert medical reports as

being in a chronic vegetative state that required artificial

nutrition and hydration to be administered via a gastric tube. 117. Mr. Lambert‘s parents applied to the ECHR alleging that

the decision to withdraw his artificial nutrition and hydration

breached, inter alia, the State‘s obligations under Article 2 of

the European Convention. The ECHR highlighted that Article 2 imposes on the States both a negative obligation (to refrain

from the ‗intentional‘ taking of life) and a positive obligation (to

‗take appropriate steps to safeguard the lives of those within

its jurisdiction‘). The Court held that the decision of a doctor

to discontinue life-sustaining treatment (or ‗therapeutic

abstention‘) did not involve the State‘s negative obligation 39 [2015] ECHR 185 112 under Article 2 and, therefore, the only question for the Court

under Article 2 was whether it was consistent with the State‘s

positive obligation. 118. The ECHR emphasized that ‗the Convention has to be

read as a whole‘, and, therefore:- 119. The Court noted that there was a consensus among

European member States ‗as to the paramount importance of

the patient‘s wishes in the decision-making process, however

those wishes are expressed‘. It identified that in dealing with

end of life situations, States have some discretion in terms of

striking a balance between the protection of the patients‘ right

to life and the protection of the right to respect their private

life and their personal autonomy. The Court considered that

the provisions of the Law of 22 April 2005 ‗on patients‘ rights

and the end of life‘ promulgated in France making changes in

the French Code of Public Health, as interpreted by the 113 Conseil d’Etat, constituted a legal framework which was

sufficiently clear to regulate with precision the decisions taken

by doctors in situations such as in Mr. Lambert‘s case. The

Court found the legislative framework laid down by domestic

law, as interpreted by the Conseil d’État, and the decision-

making process which had been conducted in meticulous

fashion, to be compatible with the requirements of the State‘s

positive obligation under Article 2. With respect to negative

obligations, the ECHR observed that the ―therapeutic

abstention‖ (that is, withdrawal and withholding of medical

treatment) lacks the intention to end the patient‘s life and

rather, a doctor discontinuing medical treatment from his or

her patient merely intends to ―allow death to resume its

natural course and to relieve suffering‖. Therefore, as long as

therapeutic abstention as authorised by the French Public

Health Code is not about taking life intentionally, the ECHR

opined that France had not violated its negative obligation to

―refrain from the intentional taking of life‖. 120. When considering the State‘s positive obligations to

protect human life, the ECHR noted that the regulatory 114 framework developed in the Public Health Code and the

decision of the Conseil d’ Etat established several ―important

safeguards‖ with respect to therapeutic abstention and the

regulation is, therefore, ―apt to ensure the protection of

patients‘ lives.‖ 121. All this compelled the ECHR to conclude that there was

no violation of the State‘s positive obligation to protect human

life which, together with the absence of violation of negative

obligations, resulted in the conclusion that ―there would be no

violation of Article 2 of the Convention in the event of

implementation of the Conseil d’ Etat judgment.‖ Thus, the

ECHR in the Lambert (supra) case struck the balance between

the sanctity of life on the one hand and the notions of quality

of life and individual autonomy on the other. I. The 241st Report of The Law Commission of India on
 Passive Euthanasia: 122. After the judgment of Aruna Shanbaug was delivered,

the Law Commission of India submitted its 241st report which

dealt with ‗Passive Euthanasia – A Relook‘. The report in its

introduction has dealt with the origin of the concept of 115 euthanasia. It states that the word ―Euthanasia‖ is derived

from the Greek words ―eu‖ and ―thanotos‖ which literally mean

―good death‖ and is otherwise described as ―mercy killing‖.

The word euthanasia, as pointed out in the Report, was used

by Francis Bacon in the 17th Century to refer to an easy,

painless and happy death as it is the duty and responsibility

of the physician to alleviate the physical suffering of the body

of the patient. A reference has also been made in the Report

to the meaning given to the term by the House of Lords. The

Select Committee on ―Medical Ethics‖ in England defined

Euthanasia as ―a deliberate intervention undertaken with the

express intention of ending a life to relieve intractable

suffering‖. Impressing upon the voluntary nature of

euthanasia, the report has rightly highlighted the clarification

as provided by the European Association of Palliative Care

(EAPC) Ethics Task Force in a discussion on Euthanasia in

2003 to the effect that ―medicalised killing of a person without

the person‘s consent, whether non-voluntary (where the

person is unable to consent) or involuntary (against the

person‘s will) is not euthanasia: it is a murder.‖ 116 123. The Commission in its report referred to the observations

made by the then Chairman of the Law Commission in his

letter dated 28th August, 2006 addressed to the Hon‘ble

Minister which was extracted. It is pertinent to reproduce the

same:- 124. The report rightly points out that a rational and

humanitarian outlook should have primacy in such a complex

matter. Recognizing that passive euthanasia, both in the case

of competent and incompetent patients, is being allowed in

most of the countries subject to the doctor acting in the best

interests of the patient, the report summarized the broad

principles of medical ethics which shall be observed by the

doctor in taking the decision. The said principles as obtained

in the report are the patient‘s autonomy (or the right to self-

determination) and beneficence which means following a

course of action that is best for the patient uninfluenced by

personal convictions, motives or other considerations. The

Report also refers to the observations made by Lord Keith in

Airedale case providing for a course to safeguard the patient‘s

best interest. As per the said course, which has also been

approved by this Court, the hospital/medical practitioner

should apply to the Family Division of the High Court for

endorsing or reversing the decision taken by the medical

practitioners in charge to discontinue the treatment of a PVS

patient. With respect to the ongoing debates on ―legalizing 118 euthanasia‖, the Report reiterates the observations made in

Airedale that euthanasia (other than passive euthanasia) can

be legalized by means of legislation only. 125. The Report, in upholding the principle of the patient‘s

autonomy, went on to state:- 126. The Report supports the view of several authorities

especially Lord Browne-Wilkinson (in Airedale case) and 119 Justice Cardozo that in case of any forced medical intervention

on the body of a patient, the surgeon/doctor is guilty of

‗assault‘ or ‗battery‘. The Report also laid emphasis on the

opinion of Lord Goff placing the right of self-determination on

a high pedestal. The said relevant observations of Lord Goff,

as also cited in the Report, are as follows:- 127. We have referred to the report of the Law Commission

post Aruna Shanbaug only to highlight that there has been

affirmative thought in this regard. We have also been apprised

by Mr. Narasimha, learned Additional Solicitor General

appearing for the Union of India, that there is going to be a law

with regard to passive euthanasia. J. Right to refuse treatment: 128. Deliberating on the issue of right to refuse treatment,

Justice Cardozo in Schloendorff v. Society of New York

Hospital40 observed:- 129. In a somewhat different context, King C.J. in F v. R41 identified ―the paramount consideration that a person is

entitled to make his own decisions about his life‖. The said

statement was cited with approval by Mason CJ, Brennan,

Dawson, Toohey and McHugh, JJ. in Rogers v. Whitaker42.

Cardozo‘s statement has been cited and applied in many

cases. Thus, in Malette v. Shulman43, Robins J.A., speaking

with the concurrence of Catzman and Canthy JJA, said:- 130. The recognition of the freedom of competent adults to

make choices about their medical care necessarily

encompasses recognition of the right to make choices since

individual free choice and self-determination are themselves

fundamental constituents of life. Robins J.A. further clarified

in Malette at page 334:- 131. In the 21st century, with the advancement of technology

in medical care, it has become possible, with the help of

support machines, to prolong the death of patients for months

and even years in some cases. At this juncture, the right to

refuse medical treatment comes into the picture. A patient

(terminally ill or in a persistent vegetative state) exercising the

right to refuse treatment may ardently wish to live but, at the

same time, he may wish to be free from any medical surgery,

drugs or treatment of any kind so as to avoid protracted 122 physical suffering. Any such person who has come of age

and is of sound mind has a right to refuse medical treatment.

This right stands on a different pedestal as compared to

suicide, physician assisted suicide or even euthanasia. When a

terminally ill patient refuses to take medical treatment, it can

neither be termed as euthanasia nor as suicide. Albeit, both

suicide and refusal to take treatment in case of terminal

ailment shall result in the same consequences, that is, death,

yet refusal to take treatment by itself cannot amount to

suicide. In case of suicide, there has to be a self initiated

positive action with a specific intention to cause one‘s own

death. On the other hand, a patient‘s right to refuse treatment

lacks his specific intention to die, rather it protects the patient

from unwanted medical treatment. A patient refusing medical

treatment merely allows the disease to take its natural course

and if, in this process, death occurs, the cause for it would

primarily be the underlying disease and not any self initiated

act. 132. In Rodriguez (supra), Justice Sopinka, speaking for the

Supreme Court of Canada, held:- 133. In Secretary, Department of Health and Community

Services (NT) v. JWB and SMB44, the High Court of Australia

acknowledged the fundamental right of personal inviolability.

Justice McHugh observed that the voluntary decision of an

adult person of sound mind as to what should be done to his

or her body must be respected. It was further observed that

under the doctrine of trespass, the common law respects and

protects the autonomy of adult persons and also accepts the

right to self-determination in respect of his or her body which

can be altered only with the consent of the person concerned. 134. There is a presumption of capacity whereby an adult is

presumed to have the capacity to consent to or to refuse

medical treatment unless and until that presumption is

rebutted. Butler-Sloss LJ, in Re MB (Medical Treatment)45,

stated that in deciding whether a person has the capacity to 44 (1992) 66 AJLR 300 : (1992) 175 CLR 218 45 [1997] EWCA Civ 3093 : [1997] 2 FLR 426 124 make a particular decision, the ultimate question is whether

that person suffers from some impairment or disturbance of

mental functioning so as to render him or her incapable of

making the decision. The consent may be vitiated if the

individual concerned may not have been competent in law to

give or refuse that consent; or even if the individual was

competent in law, the decision has been obtained by undue

influence or some other vitiating means; or the apparent

consent or refusal does not extend to the particular situation;

or the terms of the consent or refusal are ambiguous or

uncertain; or if the consent or refusal is based on incorrect

information or incorrect assumption. In circumstances where

it is practicable for a medical practitioner to obtain consent to

treatment, then, for the consent to be valid, it must be based

on full information, including as to its risks and benefits. 135. Where it is not practicable for a medical practitioner to

obtain consent for treatment and where the patient‘s life is in

danger if appropriate treatment is not given, then the

treatment may be administered without consent. This is

justified by what is sometimes called the ―emergency principle‖ 125 or ―principle of necessity‖. Usually, the medical practitioner

treats the patient in accordance with his clinical judgment of

what is in the patient‘s best interests. Lord Goff of Chieveley

has rightly pointed out in F v. West Berkshire Health

Authority (supra) that for the principle of necessity to apply,

two conditions must be met:- 136. However, Lord Goff pointed out that the principle of

necessity does not apply where the proposed action is contrary

to the known wishes of the assisted person to the extent that

he/she is capable of rationally forming such a wish. It follows

that the principle of necessity cannot be relied upon to justify

a particular form of medical treatment where the patient has

given an advance care directive specifying that he/she does

not wish to be so treated and where there is no reasonable 126 basis for doubting the validity and applicability of that

directive. K. Passive Euthanasia in the context of Article 21 of the
 Constitution: 137. We have to restrict our deliberation to the issue whether

euthanasia can come within the ambit and sweep of Article 21. Article 21 reads as follows:- 138. The word ‗liberty‘ is the sense and realization of choice of

the attributes associated with the said choice; and the term

‗life‘ is the aspiration to possess the same in a dignified

manner. The two are intrinsically interlinked. Liberty impels

an individual to change and life welcomes the change and the

movement. Life does not intend to live sans liberty as it would

be, in all possibility, a meaningless survival. There is no doubt

that no fundamental right is absolute, but any restraint

imposed on liberty has to be reasonable. Individual liberty aids

in developing one‘s growth of mind and assert individuality.

She/he may not be in a position to rule others but 127 individually, she/he has the authority over the body and

mind. The liberty of personal sovereignty over body and mind

strengthens the faculties in a person. It helps in their

cultivation. Roscoe Pound, in one of his lectures, has aptly

said:- 139. Liberty allows freedom of speech, association and

dissemination without which the society may face hurdles in

attaining the requisite maturity. History is replete with

narratives how the thoughts of individuals, though not

accepted by the contemporaneous society, later on gained not

only acceptance but also respect. One may not agree with

Kantian rigorism, but one must appreciate that without the

said doctrine, there could not have been dissemination of

further humanistic principles. There is a danger in

discouraging free thinking and curtailing the power of 128 imagination. Holmes in Adkins v. Children’s Hospital46 has

observed:- 140. The concept of liberty perceives a hazard when it feels it

is likely to become hollow. This necessarily means that there

would be liberty available to individuals subject to permissible

legal restraint and it should be made clear that in that

restraint, free ideas cannot be imprisoned by some kind of

unknown terror. Liberty cannot be a slave because it

constitutes the essential marrow of life and that is how we

intend to understand the conception of liberty when we read it

in association with the term ‗life‘ as used in Article 21 of the

Constitution. The great American playwright Tennessee

Williams has said:- 141. Life as envisaged under Article 21 has been very broadly

understood by this Court. In Board of Trustees of the Port

of Bombay v. Dilipkumar Raghavendranath Nadkarni and 46 261 US 525, 568(1923) 129 others47, the Court has held that the expression ―life‖ does not

merely connote animal existence or a continued drudgery

through life. The expression ‗life‘ has a much wider meaning

and, therefore, where the outcome of a departmental enquiry

is likely to adversely affect the reputation or livelihood of a

person, some of the finer graces of human civilization which

make life worth living would be jeopardized and the same can

be put in jeopardy only by law which inheres fair procedures. 142. In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India and another48,

Krishna Iyer J., in his own inimitable style, states that among

the great guaranteed rights, life and liberty are the first among

equals carrying a universal connotation cardinal to a decent

human order and protected by constitutional armour. Once

liberty under Article 21 is viewed in a truncated manner,

several other freedoms fade out automatically. To sum up,

personal liberty makes for the worth of the human person.

Travel makes liberty worthwhile. ‗Life‘ is a terrestrial

opportunity for unfolding personality, rising to higher status,

moving to fresh woods and reaching out to reality which 47 (1983) 1 SCC 124 48 (1978) 1 SCC 248 130 makes our earthly journey a true fulfilment – not a tale told by

an idiot full of sound and fury signifying nothing, but a fine

frenzy rolling between heaven and earth. The spirit of man is

at the root of Article 21. In the absence of liberty, other

freedoms are frozen. 143. In State of Andhra Pradesh v. Challa Ramkrishna

Reddy and others49, this Court held that right to life is one of

the basic human rights and it is guaranteed to every person by Article 21 of the Constitution and not even the State has the

authority to violate that right. A prisoner, whether a convict or

under-trial or a detenu, does not cease to be a human being.

Even when lodged in jail, he continues to enjoy all his

fundamental rights including the right to life guaranteed to

him under the Constitution. The Court further ruled that on

being convicted of crime and deprived of their liberty in

accordance with the procedure established by law, prisoners

still retain the residue of constitutional rights. 144. Having said so, we are required to advert to the issue

whether passive euthanasia can only be conceived of through 49 AIR 2000 SC 2083 : (2000) 5 SCC 712 131 legislation or this Court can, for the present, provide for the

same. We have already explained that the ratio laid down in Gian Kaur does not convey that the introduction of passive

euthanasia can only be by legislation. In Aruna Shanbaug,

the two-Judge Bench has placed reliance on the Constitution

Bench judgment in Gian Kaur to lay down the guidelines. If,

eventually, we arrive at the conclusion that passive euthanasia

comes within the sweep of Article 21 of the Constitution, we

have no iota of doubt that this Court can lay down the

guidelines. 145. We may clearly state here that the interpretation of the

Constitution, especially fundamental rights, has to be dynamic

and it is only such interpretative dynamism that breathes life

into the written words. As far as Article 21 is concerned, it is

imperative to mention that dynamism can, of course, infuse

life into life and liberty as used in the said Article. 146. In this regard, we may reproduce a couple of

paragraphs from Central Inland Water Transport 132 Corporation Limited and another v. Brojo Nath Ganguly and another50. They read as under:- It must keep time with the heartbeats of the society
 and with the needs and aspirations of the people. As 50 (1986) 3 SCC 156 133 the society changes, the law cannot remain
 immutable. The early nineteenth century essayist
 and wit, Sydney Smith, said: ―When I hear any man
 talk of an unalterable law, I am convinced that he is
 an unalterable fool.‖ The law must, therefore, in a
 changing society march in tune with the changed
 ideas and ideologies‖
 [Emphasis added] 147. We approve the view in the aforesaid passages. Having

approved the aforesaid principle, we are obliged to state that

the fundamental rights in their connotative expanse are bound

to engulf certain rights which really flow from the same. In M. Nagaraj and others v. Union of India and others51, the

Constitution Bench has ruled:- 148. In this context, we may make a reference to a three-

Judge Bench decision in V.C. Rangadurai v. D. Gopalan and

others52 wherein the majority, while dealing with Section 35(3) of the Advocates Act, 1961, stated:- 149. The aforesaid authorities clearly show the power that

falls within the province of the Court. The language employed

in the constitutional provision should be liberally construed,

for such provision can never remain static. It is because

stasticity would mar the core which is not the intent.

K.1 Individual Dignity as a facet of Article 21: 150. Dignity of an individual has been internationally

recognized as an important facet of human rights in the year

1948 itself with the enactment of the Universal Declaration of

Human Rights. Human dignity not only finds place in the

Preamble of this important document but also in Article 1 of

the same. It is well known that the principles set out in UDHR

are of paramount importance and are given utmost weightage 136 while interpreting human rights all over the world. The first

and foremost responsibility fixed upon the State is the

protection of human dignity without which any other right

would fall apart. Justice Brennan in his book The Constitution

of the United States: Contemporary Ratification has referred to

the Constitution as "a sparkling vision of the supremacy of the

human dignity of every individual." 151. In fact, in the case of Christine Goodwin v. the United

Kingdom53 the European Court of Human Rights, speaking in

the context of the Convention for the Protection of Human

Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, has gone to the extent of

stating that "the very essence of the Convention is respect for

human dignity and human freedom". In the South African

case of S v. Makwanyane 54 O' Regan J. stated in the

Constitutional Court that "without dignity, human life is

substantially diminished." 152. Having noted the aforesaid, it is worthy to note that our

Court has expanded the spectrum of Article 21. In the latest 53 [2002] ECHR 588 54 1995 (3) SA 391 137 nine-Judge Bench decision in K.S. Puttaswamy and another

v. Union of India and others55, dignity has been reaffirmed

to be a component under the said fundamental right. Human

dignity is beyond definition. It may at times defy description.

To some, it may seem to be in the world of abstraction and

some may even perversely treat it as an attribute of egotism or

accentuated eccentricity. This feeling may come from the roots

of absolute cynicism. But what really matters is that life

without dignity is like a sound that is not heard. Dignity

speaks, it has its sound, it is natural and human. It is a

combination of thought and feeling, and, as stated earlier, it

deserves respect even when the person is dead and described

as a ‗body‘. That is why, the Constitution Bench in M. Nagaraj (supra) lays down:- 153. The concept and value of dignity requires further

elaboration since we are treating it as an inextricable facet of

right to life that respects all human rights that a person

enjoys. Life is basically self-assertion. In the life of a person,

conflict and dilemma are expected to be normal phenomena.

Oliver Wendell Holmes, in one of his addresses, quoted a line

from a Latin poet who had uttered the message, ―Death plucks

my ear and says, Live- I am coming‖. That is the significance

of living. But when a patient really does not know if he/she is

living till death visits him/her and there is constant suffering

without any hope of living, should one be allowed to wait?

Should she/he be cursed to die as life gradually ebbs out from

her/his being? Should she/he live because of innovative

medical technology or, for that matter, should he/she

continue to live with the support system as people around

him/her think that science in its progressive invention may

bring about an innovative method of cure? To put it

differently, should he/she be ―guinea pig‖ for some kind of

experiment? The answer has to be an emphatic ―No‖ because

such futile waiting mars the pristine concept of life, corrodes 139 the essence of dignity and erodes the fact of eventual choice

which is pivotal to privacy. Recently, in K.S. Puttaswamy (supra), one of us (Dr. Chandrachud J.), while speaking about

life and dignity, has observed:- 154. In Mehmood Nayyar Azam v. State of Chhattisgarh and others56, a two-Judge Bench held thus:- 155. The aforesaid authority emphasizes the seminal value of

life that is inherent in the concept of life. Dignity does not

recognize or accept any nexus with the status or station in life.

The singular principle that it pleasantly gets beholden to is the

integral human right of a person. Law gladly takes cognizance 56 (2012) 8 SCC 1 141 of the fact that dignity is the most sacred possession of a man.

And the said possession neither loses its sanctity in the

process of dying nor evaporates when death occurs. In this

context, reference to a passage from Vikas Yadav v. State of

Uttar Pradesh and others57 is note worthy. The two Judge

Bench of this Court, while dealing with the imposition of a

fixed term sentence under Section 302 IPC, took note of the

fact that the High Court had observed the magnitude of

vengeance of the accused and the extent to which they had

gone to destroy the body of the deceased. Keeping in view the

findings of the High Court, this Court stated:- 156. Reiterating that dignity is the most fundamental aspect of

right to life, it has been held in the celebrated case of Francis

Coralie Mullin v. The Administrator, Union Territory of

Delhi58 :- 157. In National Legal Services Authority v. Union of

India and others59, the Apex Court has held that there is a

growing recognition that the true measure of development of a

nation is not economic growth; it is human dignity. 158. In Shabnam v. Union of India and another60, it has

been further held that:- 159. In Gian Kaur (supra), the Constitution Bench indicates

acceleration of the conclusion of the process of death which

has commenced and this indication, as observed by us, allows

room for expansion. In the said case, the Court was primarily

concerned with the question of constitutional validity of Sections

306 and 309 of IPC. The Court was conscious of the fact that the

debate on euthanasia was not relevant for deciding the question

under consideration. The Court, however, in no uncertain terms

expounded that the word "life" in Article 21 has been construed

as life with human dignity and it takes within its ambit the "right

to die with dignity" being part of the "right to live with dignity".

Further, the "right to live with human dignity" would mean

existence of such a right upto the end of natural life which would

include the right to live a dignified life upto the point of death

including the dignified procedure of death. While adverting to the

situation of a dying man who is terminally ill or in a persistent

vegetative state where he may be permitted to terminate it by a

premature extinction of his life, the Court observed that the said

category of cases may fall within the ambit of "right to die with

dignity" as part of the right to live with dignity when death due to 145 the termination of natural life is certain and imminent and the

process of natural death has commenced, for these are not cases

of extinguishing life but only of accelerating the conclusion of the

process of natural death which has already commenced. The

sequitur of this exposition is that there is little doubt that a

dying man who is terminally ill or in a persistent vegetative state

can make a choice of premature extinction of his life as being a

facet of Article 21 of the Constitution. If that choice is

guaranteed being part of Article 21 , there is no necessity of any

legislation for effectuating that fundamental right and more so

his natural human right. Indeed, that right cannot be an

absolute right but subject to regulatory measures to be

prescribed by a suitable legislation which, however, must be

reasonable restrictions and in the interests of the general public.

In the context of the issue under consideration, we must make it

clear that as part of the right to die with dignity in case of a dying

man who is terminally ill or in a persistent vegetative state, only

passive euthanasia would come within the ambit of Article 21 and not the one which would fall within the description of active

euthanasia in which positive steps are taken either by the 146 treating physician or some other person. That is because the

right to die with dignity is an intrinsic facet of Article 21. The

concept that has been touched deserves to be concretised, the

thought has to be realized. It has to be viewed from various

angles, namely, legal permissibility, social and ethical ethos

and medical values. 160. The purpose of saying so is only to highlight that the law

must take cognizance of the changing society and march in

consonance with the developing concepts. The need of the

present has to be served with the interpretative process of law.

However, it is to be seen how much strength and sanction can

be drawn from the Constitution to consummate the changing

ideology and convert it into a reality. The immediate needs are

required to be addressed through the process of interpretation

by the Court unless the same totally falls outside the

constitutional framework or the constitutional interpretation

fails to recognize such dynamism. The Constitution Bench in

Gian Kaur, as stated earlier, distinguishes attempt to suicide

and abetment of suicide from acceleration of the process of

natural death which has commenced. The authorities, we 147 have noted from other jurisdictions, have observed the

distinctions between the administration of lethal injection or

certain medicines to cause painless death and non-

administration of certain treatment which can prolong the life

in cases where the process of dying that has commenced is not

reversible or withdrawal of the treatment that has been given

to the patient because of the absolute absence of possibility of

saving the life. To explicate, the first part relates to an overt

act whereas the second one would come within the sphere of

informed consent and authorized omission. The omission of

such a nature will not invite any criminal liability if such

action is guided by certain safeguards. The concept is based

on non-prolongation of life where there is no cure for the state

the patient is in and he, under no circumstances, would have

liked to have such a degrading state. The words ―no cure‖ have

to be understood to convey that the patient remains in the

same state of pain and suffering or the dying process is

delayed by means of taking recourse to modern medical

technology. It is a state where the treating physicians and the

family members know fully well that the treatment is 148 administered only to procrastinate the continuum of breath of

the individual and the patient is not even aware that he is

breathing. Life is measured by artificial heartbeats and the

patient has to go through this undignified state which is

imposed on him. The dignity of life is denied to him as there is

no other choice but to suffer an avoidable protracted

treatment thereby thus indubitably casting a cloud and

creating a dent in his right to live with dignity and face death

with dignity, which is a preserved concept of bodily autonomy

and right to privacy. In such a stage, he has no old memories

or any future hopes but he is in a state of misery which

nobody ever desires to have. Some may also silently think that

death, the inevitable factum of life, cannot be invited. To meet

such situations, the Court has a duty to interpret Article 21 in

a further dynamic manner and it has to be stated without any

trace of doubt that the right to life with dignity has to include

the smoothening of the process of dying when the person is in

a vegetative state or is living exclusively by the administration

of artificial aid that prolongs the life by arresting the dignified

and inevitable process of dying. Here, the issue of choice also 149 comes in. Thus analysed, we are disposed to think that such a

right would come within the ambit of Article 21 of the

Constitution. L. Right of self-determination and individual autonomy: 161. Having dealt with the right to acceleration of the process

of dying a natural death which is arrested with the aid of

modern innovative technology as a part of Article 21 of the

Constitution, it is necessary to address the issues of right of

self-determination and individual autonomy. 162. John Rawls says that the liberal concept of autonomy

focuses on choice and likewise, self-determination is

understood as exercised through the process of choosing 61 .

The respect for an individual human being and in particular

for his right to choose how he should live his own life is

individual autonomy or the right of self- determination. It is

the right against non-interference by others, which gives a

competent person who has come of age the right to make

decisions concerning his or her own life and body without any 61 Rawls, John, Political Liberalism 32, 33, New York: Columbia University Press, 1993. 150 control or interference of others. Lord Hoffman, in Reeves v.

Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis62 has stated:- 163. In the context of health and medical care decisions, a

person's exercise of self-determination and autonomy involves

the exercise of his right to decide whether and to what extent

he/she is willing to submit himself/herself to medical

procedures and treatments, choosing amongst the available

alternative treatments or, for that matter, opting for no

treatment at all which, as per his or her own understanding, is

in consonance with his or her own individual aspirations and

values. 164. In Airedale (supra), Lord Goff has expressed that it is

established that the principle of self-determination requires

that respect must be given to the wishes of the patient so that

if an adult patient of sound mind refuses, however

unreasonably, to consent to treatment or care by which

62 [2000] 1 AC 360, 379 151 his/her life would or might be prolonged, the doctors

responsible for his/her care must give effect to his/her wishes,

even though they do not consider it to be in his/her best

interests to do so and to this extent, the principle of sanctity of

human life must yield to the principle of self-determination.

Lord Goff further says that the doctor's duty to act in the best

interests of his patient must likewise be qualified with the

patient's right of self determination. Therefore, as far as the

United Kingdom is concerned, it is generally clear that

whenever there is a conflict between a capable adult's exercise

of the right of self-determination and the State's interest in

preserving human life by treating it as sanctimonious, the

right of the individual must prevail. 165. In the United States, the aspect of self-determination and

individual autonomy is concretised in law as all fifty States

along with the District of Columbia, the capital, which is

commonly referred as Washington D.C., have passed

legislations upholding different forms of Advance Directives. In

the United States, even before the enactment of the said laws, 152 a terminally ill person was free to assert the right to die as an

ancillary right to the constitutionally protected right to

privacy. In In Re Quinlan (supra), where a 21 year old girl in

chronic PVS was on ventilator support, the Court, while

weighing Quinlan's right to privacy qua the State's interest in

preserving human life, found that as the degree of bodily

invasion increases and the prognosis for the patient's recovery

dims, the patient's right to privacy increases and the State's

interest weakens. The Supreme Court of New Jersey finally

ruled that the unwritten constitutional right of privacy was

broad enough to encompass a patient's decision to decline

medical treatment in certain circumstances. Again, in Re

Jobes63, which was also a case concerned with a PVS patient,

the Court, following the decision in In Re Quinlan, upheld the

principle of self determination and autonomy of an

incompetent person. 166. The Canadian Criminal Code asserts and protects the

sanctity of life in a number of ways which directly confront the

autonomy of the terminally ill in their medical decision 63 (1987) 108 N.J. 394 153 making. However, the Supreme Court of Canada in Reibl v.

Hughes64 approved an oft-quoted statement of Cardozo J. in

Scholoendorf (supra) that "every human being of adult years

and sound mind has a right to determine what shall be done

with his own body" and Chief Justice Laskin in Reibl (supra)

has further added that battery would lie where surgery or

treatment was performed without consent or where apart from

emergency situations, surgery or medical treatment was given

beyond that to which there was consent. Thus, the Supreme

Court of Canada suggested that competent adults have the

right to make their own medical decisions even if such

decisions are unwise. 167. In Aruna Shanbaug (supra), this Court has observed that

autonomy means the right to self-determination where the

informed patient has a right to choose the manner of his

treatment. To be autonomous the patient should be competent to

make decisions and choices. In the event that he is incompetent

to make choices, his wishes expressed in advance in the form of

a Living Will, or the wishes of surrogates acting on his behalf 64 [1980 2 SCR 880 at 890-891 154 ('substituted judgment') are to be respected. The surrogate is

expected to represent what the patient may have decided had

he/she been competent or to act in the patient's best interest. It

is expected that a surrogate acting in the patient's best interest

follows a course of action because it is best for the patient, and

is not influenced by personal convictions, motives or other

considerations. 168. Thus, enquiring into common law and statutory rights

of terminally ill persons in other jurisdictions would indicate

that all adults with the capacity to consent have the common

law right to refuse medical treatment and the right of self

determination. 169. We may, however, add a word of caution that doctors

would be bound by the choice of self-determination made by

the patient who is terminally ill and undergoing a prolonged

medical treatment or is surviving on life support, subject to

being satisfied that the illness of the patient is incurable and

there is no hope of his being cured. Any other consideration

cannot pass off as being in the best interests of the patient. 155 M. Social morality, medical ethicality and State interest: 170. Having dwelt upon the issue of self-determination, we

may presently delve into three aspects, namely, social

morality, medical ethicality and the State interest. The

aforesaid concepts have to be addressed in the constitutional

backdrop. We may clearly note that the society at large may

feel that a patient should be treated till he breathes his last

breath and the treating physicians may feel that they are

bound by their Hippocratic oath which requires them to

provide treatment and save life and not to put an end to life by

not treating the patient. The members of the family may

remain in a constant state of hesitation being apprehensive of

many a social factor which include immediate claim of

inheritance, social stigma and, sometimes, the individual guilt.

The Hippocratic oath taken by a doctor may make him feel

that there has been a failure on his part and sometimes also

make him feel scared of various laws. There can be allegations

against him for negligence or criminal culpability. 171. In this regard, two aspects are to be borne in mind.

First, withdrawal of treatment in an irreversible situation is 156 different from not treating or attending to a patient and

second, once passive euthanasia is recognized in law regard

being had to the right to die with dignity when life is ebbing

out and when the prolongation is done sans purpose, neither

the social morality nor the doctors‘ dilemma or fear will have

any place. It is because the sustenance of dignity and self-

respect of an individual is inhered in the right of an individual

pertaining to life and liberty and there is necessity for this

protection. And once the said right comes within the shelter of Article 21 of the Constitution, the social perception and the

apprehension of the physician or treating doctor regarding

facing litigation should be treated as secondary because the

primacy of the right of an individual in this regard has to be

kept on a high pedestal. 172. It is to be borne in mind that passive euthanasia

fundamentally connotes absence of any overt act either by the

patient or by the doctors. It also does not involve any kind of

overt act on the part of the family members. It is avoidance of

unnecessary intrusion in the physical frame of a person, for

the inaction is meant for smooth exit from life. It is paramount 157 for an individual to protect his dignity as an inseparable part

of the right to life which engulfs the dignified process of dying

sans pain, sans suffering and, most importantly, sans

indignity. 173. There are philosophers, thinkers and also scientists who

feel that life is not confined to the physical frame and

biological characteristics. But there is no denial of the fact that

life in its connotative expanse intends to search for its

meaning and find the solution of the riddle of existence for

which some lean on atheism and some vouchsafe for faith and

yet some stand by the ideas of an agnostic. However, the legal

fulcrum has to be how Article 21 of the Constitution is

understood. If a man is allowed to or, for that matter, forced to

undergo pain, suffering and state of indignity because of

unwarranted medical support, the meaning of dignity is lost

and the search for meaning of life is in vain. N. Submissions of the States 174. In this context, we may reflect on the submissions

advanced on behalf of certain States. As stated earlier, there 158 is a categorical assertion that protection of human life is

paramount and it is obligatory on behalf of the States to

provide treatment and to see that no one dies because of lack

of treatment and to realise the principles enshrined in Chapter

IV of the Constitution. Emphasis has been laid on the State

interest and the process of abuse that can take place in

treating passive euthanasia as permissible in law. To

eliminate the possibility of abuse, safeguards can be taken

and guidelines can be framed. But on the plea of possibility of

abuse, the dignity in the process of dying being a facet of Article 21 should not be curbed. Mr. Datar, learned senior counsel in the course of

arguments, has advanced submissions in support of passive

euthanasia and also given suggestions spelling out the

guidelines for advance directive and also implementation of

the same when the patient is hospitalized. The said aspect

shall be taken into consideration while giving effect to the

advance directive and also taking steps for withdrawal of

medical support. O. Submissions of Intervenor (Society for the Right to
Die with Dignity): 175. Mr. Mohta, learned counsel appearing for the intervenor,

that is, Society for the Right to Die with Dignity, has drawn

our attention to certain articles and submitted that from the

days of Plato to the time of Sir Thomas More and other

thinkers, painless and peaceful death has been advocated. He

would also submit that ancient wisdom of India taught people

not to fear death but to aspire for deathlessness and conceive

it as ―Mahaprasthana‖. It is his submission that in the modern

State, the State interest should not over-weigh the individual

interest in the sphere of a desire to die a peaceful death which

basically conveys refusal of treatment when the condition of

the individual suffering from a disease is irreversible. The

freedom of choice in this sphere, as Mr. Mohta would put it,

serves the cause of humanitarian approach which is not the

process to put an end to life by taking a positive action but to

allow a dying patient to die peaceably instead of prolonging the

process of dying without purpose that creates a dent in his

dignity. 176. The aforesaid argument, we have no hesitation to say,

has force. It is so because it is in accord with the

constitutional precept and fosters the cherished value of

dignity of an individual. It saves a helpless person from

uncalled for and unnecessary treatment when he is considered

as merely a creature whose breath is felt or measured because

of advanced medical technology. His ―being‖ exclusively rests

on the mercy of the technology which can prolong the

condition for some period. The said prolongation is definitely

not in his interest. On the contrary, it tantamounts to

destruction of his dignity which is the core value of life. In our

considered opinion, in such a situation, an individual interest

has to be given priority over the State interest.

P. Advance Directive/Advance Care Directive/Advance
Medical Directive: 177. In order to overcome the difficulty faced in case of

patients who are unable to express their wishes at the time of

taking the decision, the concept of Advance Medical Directives

emerged in various countries. The proponents of Advance

Medical Directives contend that the concept of patient 161 autonomy for incompetent patients can be given effect to, by

giving room to new methods by which incompetent patients

can beforehand communicate their choices which are made

while they are competent. Further, it may be argued that

failure to recognize Advance Medical Directives would amount

to non-facilitation of the right to have a smoothened dying

process. That apart, it accepts the position that a competent

person can express her/his choice to refuse treatment at the

time when the decision is required to be made. 178. Advance Directives for health care go by various names

in different countries though the objective by and large is the

same, that is, to specify an individual's health care decisions

and to identify persons who will take those decisions for the

said individual in the event he is unable to communicate his

wishes to the doctor. 179. The Black's Law Dictionary defines an advance medical

directive as, "a legal document explaining one's wishes about

medical treatment if one becomes incompetent or unable to

communicate‖. A living will, on the other hand, is a document

prescribing a person's wishes regarding the medical treatment 162 the person would want if he was unable to share his wishes

with the health care provider. 180. Another type of advance medical directive is medical

power of attorney. It is a document which allows an individual

(principal) to appoint a trusted person (agent) to take health

care decisions when the principal is not able to take such

decisions. The agent appointed to deal with such issues can

interpret the principal's decisions based on their mutual

knowledge and understanding. 181. Advance Directives have gained lawful recognition in

several jurisdictions by way of legislation and in certain

countries through judicial pronouncements. In vast majority of

the States in USA, it is mandatory for the doctors to give effect

to the wishes of the patients as declared by them in their

advance directives. California was the first State to legally

sanction living will. The United States Congress in 1990, with

the objective of protecting the fundamental principles of self-

autonomy and self-determination, enacted the Patient Self-

Determination Act (PSDA) which acknowledged the rights of

the patient to either refuse or accept treatment. Following this, 163 all 50 States enacted legislations adopting advance directives.

Apart from this, several States of USA also permit the patients

to appoint a health care proxy which becomes effective only

when the patient is unable to make decisions. 182. In order to deal with the technicalities and intricacies

associated with an instrument as complex as an Advance

Directive, several derivatives/versions have evolved over time.

The National Right to Life Committee (NRLC) in the United

States came up with a version of a living will which was called

'Will to Live" which is a safeguard of the lives of patients who

wish to continue treatment and not refuse life-sustaining

treatment. This form of active declaration gains importance in

cases where the will of the patient cannot be deciphered with

certainty and the Courts order withdrawal of life supporting

treatment where they deem the life of the patient as not

worthwhile. 183. Yet another measure for finding and accessing the

patient's advance directive was the setting up of the U.S.

Living Will Registry. As per this model, it was obligatory on the

part of the hospital administration to ask a patient, who would 164 be admitted, if he/she had an advance directive and store the

same on their medical file. A special power to the Advance

Directives introduced by Virginia was the "Ulysses Clause" 184. A new type of advance directive is the "Do Not

Resuscitate Order" (DNRO) in Florida which is a form of

patient identification device developed by the Department of

Health to identify people who do not wish to be resuscitated in

the event of respiratory or cardiac arrest. In Florida State of

United States, where an unconscious patient with the phrase

"Do Not Resuscitate" tattooed on his chest was brought in

paramedics, the doctors were left in a conundrum whether the

message was not to provide any medical treatment to the

patient and ultimately, the doctors opted not to perform any

medical procedure and the patient, thereafter, died. This case

highlights the dynamics involved in the concept of advanced

directives due to the intricacies surrounding the concept. 165 185. The Mental Capacity Act governs the law relating to

advance directives in the UK. Specific guidelines as to the

manner in which the advance directive should be drafted and

the necessary conditions that need to be fulfilled in order to

give effect to the directives have been categorically laid out in

the said piece of legislation. A few specific requirements in

case of refusal of life sustaining treatment is the verification of

the decision-maker that the refusal operates even if life is at

risk and that the directive should be in the written form and

signed and witnessed. However, an advance directive refusing

food and water has not been recognized under this statute. Further, the Act recognizes the rights of the patient to appoint

a health care proxy who is referred to as "lasting power of

attorney". In order for the proxy decision-maker so appointed

to be competent to consent or refuse life-sustaining treatment

of the decision-maker, an express provision delegating the said

authority should be a part of the advance directive. In general,

as per the settled law vide the decision in Airedale, life

sustaining treatment including artificial nutrition and

hydration can be withdrawn if the patient consents to it and in 166 case of incompetent patients, if it is in their best interest to do

so. 186. Australia too, by way of legislation, has well established

principles governing Advance Health Directives. Except

Tasmania, all states have a provision for Advance Directives.

The Advance Directives as postulated by the different

legislations in each State in Australia differ in nature and their

binding effect but the objective of every type remains the same,

that is, preservation of the patient's autonomy. There are

several circumstances when the advance health care directives

or certain provisions contained therein become inoperative. 187. In Queensland, the directive becomes inoperative if the

medical health practitioner is of the opinion that giving effect

to the directive is inconsistent with good medical practice or in

case of a change in circumstances, including new advances in

medicine, medical practice and technology, to the extent that

giving effect to the directive is inappropriate. 188. In the State of Victoria, an advance directive ceases to

apply due to a change in the condition of the patient to the

extent that the condition in relation to which the advance 167 directive was given no longer exists. Further, South Australia

permits a medical practitioner to refuse to comply with a

certain provision in an advance directive in case he/she has

enough reason to believe that the patient did not intend the

provision to apply in certain conditions or the provision would

not reflect the present wishes of the patient. In Western

Australia, the occurrence of a change in circumstances which

either the decision maker could have never anticipated at the

time of making the directive or which could have the effect on

a reasonable person in the position of the decision maker to

change his/her mind regarding the treatment decision would

invalidate the said treatment decision in the directive. In

Northern Territory, an advance consent direction is

disregarded in case giving effect to it would result in such

unacceptable pain and suffering to the patient or would be so

unjustifiable and rather it is more reasonable to override the

wishes of the patient. Furthermore, if the medical practitioner

is of the opinion that the patient would have never intended

the advance consent direction to apply in the circumstances,

then the advance consent direction need not be complied with. 168 189. Canada does not have a federal legislation exclusively to

regulate advance directives. Rather, there are eleven different

provincial approaches governing the law on passive

euthanasia and advance directives in Canada. The provinces

of Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Prince Edward Island,

Newfoundland and Labrador and Northwest Territories have a

provision for both proxy and instructional directives, whereas,

the States of British Columbia, Ontario, Quebec and Yukon

provide only for appointment of a proxy while simultaneously

recognizing the binding nature of previously given

instructions. The respective legislations of the

provinces/territories differ from one another on several

criteria, for instance, minimum age requirement and other

formalities to be complied with, such as written nature of the

advance directive, etc. Furthermore, some of the provinces

mandate a prior consultation with a lawyer. Wishes orally

expressed have also been recognized by some provinces. 190. Having dealt with the principles in vogue across the

globe, we may presently proceed to deal with the issue of

advance medical directive which should be ideal in our 169 country. Be it noted, though the learned counsel for the

petitioner has used the words ―living will‖, yet we do not intend

to use the said terminology. We have already stated that

safeguards and guidelines are required to be provided. First,

we shall analyse the issue of legal permissibility of the advance

medical directive. In other jurisdictions, the concepts of ―living

will‖ and involvement of Attorney are stipulated. There is no

legal framework in our country as regards the Advance

Medical Directive but we are obliged to protect the right of the

citizens as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution. It is

our constitutional obligation. As noticed earlier, the two-Judge

Bench in Aruna Shanbaug (supra) has provided for

approaching the High Court under Article 226 of the

Constitution. The directions and guidelines to be given in this

judgment would be comprehensive and would also cover the

situation dealt with Aruna Shanbaug case. 191. In our considered opinion, Advance Medical Directive

would serve as a fruitful means to facilitate the fructification of

the sacrosanct right to life with dignity. The said directive, we

think, will dispel many a doubt at the relevant time of need 170 during the course of treatment of the patient. That apart, it

will strengthen the mind of the treating doctors as they will be

in a position to ensure, after being satisfied, that they are

acting in a lawful manner. We may hasten to add that Advance

Medical Directive cannot operate in abstraction. There has to

be safeguards. They need to be spelt out. We enumerate them

as follows:- He must also ensure that he believes on

 reasonable grounds that the person in question

 understands the information provided, has 176 cogitated over the options and has come to a

 firm view that the option of withdrawal or refusal

 of medical treatment is the best choice. (iv) The physician/hospital where the executor has

 been admitted for medical treatment shall then

 constitute a Medical Board consisting of the

 Head of the treating Department and at least

 three experts from the fields of general medicine,

 cardiology, neurology, nephrology, psychiatry or

 oncology with experience in critical care and

 with overall standing in the medical profession

 of at least twenty years who, in turn, shall visit

 the patient in the presence of his guardian/close

 relative and form an opinion whether to certify

 or not to certify carrying out the instructions of

 withdrawal or refusal of further medical

 treatment. This decision shall be regarded as a

 preliminary opinion. (v) In the event the Hospital Medical Board certifies

 that the instructions contained in the Advance

 Directive ought to be carried out, the

 physician/hospital shall forthwith inform the

 jurisdictional Collector about the proposal. The

 jurisdictional Collector shall then immediately

 constitute a Medical Board comprising the Chief

 District Medical Officer of the concerned district

 as the Chairman and three expert doctors from

 the fields of general medicine, cardiology,

 neurology, nephrology, psychiatry or oncology

 with experience in critical care and with overall

 standing in the medical profession of at least

 twenty years (who were not members of the

 previous Medical Board of the hospital). They

 shall jointly visit the hospital where the patient

 is admitted and if they concur with the initial

 decision of the Medical Board of the hospital, 178 they may endorse the certificate to carry out the

 instructions given in the Advance Directive. (vi) The Board constituted by the Collector must

 beforehand ascertain the wishes of the executor

 if he is in a position to communicate and is

 capable of understanding the consequences of

 withdrawal of medical treatment. In the event

 the executor is incapable of taking decision or

 develops impaired decision making capacity,

 then the consent of the guardian nominated by

 the executor in the Advance Directive should be

 obtained regarding refusal or withdrawal of

 medical treatment to the executor to the extent

 of and consistent with the clear instructions

 given in the Advance Directive. (vii) The Chairman of the Medical Board nominated

 by the Collector, that is, the Chief District

 Medical Officer, shall convey the decision of the

 Board to the jurisdictional JMFC before giving 179 effect to the decision to withdraw the medical

 treatment administered to the executor. The

 JMFC shall visit the patient at the earliest and,

 after examining all aspects, authorise the

 implementation of the decision of the Board. (viii) It will be open to the executor to revoke the

 document at any stage before it is acted upon

 and implemented. (e) What if permission is refused by the Medical Board? (i) If permission to withdraw medical treatment is

 refused by the Medical Board, it would be open

 to the executor of the Advance Directive or his

 family members or even the treating doctor or

 the hospital staff to approach the High Court by

 way of writ petition under Article 226 of the

 Constitution. If such application is filed before

 the High Court, the Chief Justice of the said

 High Court shall constitute a Division Bench to

 decide upon grant of approval or to refuse the 180 same. The High Court will be free to constitute

 an independent Committee consisting of three

 doctors from the fields of general medicine,

 cardiology, neurology, nephrology, psychiatry or

 oncology with experience in critical care and

 with overall standing in the medical profession

 of at least twenty years. (ii) The High Court shall hear the application

 expeditiously after affording opportunity to the

 State counsel. It would be open to the High

 Court to constitute Medical Board in terms of its

 order to examine the patient and submit report

 about the feasibility of acting upon the

 instructions contained in the Advance Directive. (iii) Needless to say that the High Court shall render

 its decision at the earliest as such matters

 cannot brook any delay and it shall ascribe

 reasons specifically keeping in mind the

 principles of "best interests of the patient". 181 (f) Revocation or inapplicability of Advance Directive (i) An individual may withdraw or alter the

 Advance Directive at any time when he/she has the

 capacity to do so and by following the same

 procedure as provided for recording of Advance

 Directive. Withdrawal or revocation of an Advance

 Directive must be in writing. (ii) An Advance Directive shall not be applicable to

 the treatment in question if there are reasonable

 grounds for believing that circumstances exist

 which the person making the directive did not

 anticipate at the time of the Advance Directive and

 which would have affected his decision had he

 anticipated them. (iii) If the Advance Directive is not clear and

 ambiguous, the concerned Medical Boards shall not

 give effect to the same and, in that event, the 182 guidelines meant for patients without Advance

 Directive shall be made applicable. (iv) Where the Hospital Medical Board takes a

 decision not to follow an Advance Directive while

 treating a person, then it shall make an application

 to the Medical Board constituted by the Collector for

 consideration and appropriate direction on the

 Advance Directive. 192. It is necessary to make it clear that there will be cases

where there is no Advance Directive. The said class of persons

cannot be alienated. In cases where there is no Advance

Directive, the procedure and safeguards are to be same as

applied to cases where Advance Directives are in existence and

in addition there to, the following procedure shall be followed:- In such a situation, the nominee of the patient or the family

member or the treating doctor or the hospital staff can seek

permission from the High Court to withdraw life support by

way of writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution in

which case the Chief Justice of the said High Court shall

constitute a Division Bench which shall decide to grant

approval or not. The High Court may constitute an

independent Committee to depute three doctors from the

fields of general medicine, cardiology, neurology,

nephrology, psychiatry or oncology with experience in

critical care and with overall standing in the medical

profession of at least twenty years after consulting the

competent medical practitioners. It shall also afford an

opportunity to the State counsel. The High Court in such

cases shall render its decision at the earliest since such

matters cannot brook any delay. Needless to say, the High

Court shall ascribe reasons specifically keeping in mind the

principle of "best interests of the patient".. 186 193. Having said this, we think it appropriate to cover a vital

aspect to the effect the life support is withdrawn, the same shall

also be intimated by the Magistrate to the High Court. It shall be

kept in a digital format by the Registry of the High Court apart

from keeping the hard copy which shall be destroyed after the

expiry of three years from the death of the patient. 194. Our directions with regard to the Advance Directives and

the safeguards as mentioned hereinabove shall remain in force

till the Parliament makes legislation on this subject.

Q. Conclusions in seriatim: 195. In view of the aforesaid analysis, we record our

conclusions in seriatim:- With the passage of time, this Court has expanded

the spectrum of Article 21 to include within it the 190 right to live with dignity as component of right to life

and liberty. (x) It has to be stated without any trace of doubt

that the right to live with dignity also includes the

smoothening of the process of dying in case of a

terminally ill patient or a person in PVS with no

hope of recovery. (xi) A failure to legally recognize advance medical

directives may amount to non-facilitation of the

right to smoothen the dying process and the right to

live with dignity. Further, a study of the position in

other jurisdictions shows that Advance Directives

have gained lawful recognition in several

jurisdictions by way of legislation and in certain

countries through judicial pronouncements. (xii) Though the sanctity of life has to be kept on

the high pedestal yet in cases of terminally ill

persons or PVS patients where there is no hope for 191 revival, priority shall be given to the Advance

 Directive and the right of self-determination. (xiii) In the absence of Advance Directive, the

 procedure provided for the said category

 hereinbefore shall be applicable. (xiv) When passive euthanasia as a situational

 palliative measure becomes applicable, the best

 interest of the patient shall override the State

 interest. 196. We have laid down the principles relating to the

procedure for execution of Advance Directive and provided the

guidelines to give effect to passive euthanasia in both

circumstances, namely, where there are advance directives

and where there are none, in exercise of the power under Article 142 of the Constitution and the law stated in Vishaka

and Others v. State of Rajasthan and Others 65 . The

directive and guidelines shall remain in force till the

Parliament brings a legislation in the field. 65 (1997) 6 SCC 241 192 197. The Writ Petition is, accordingly, disposed of. There shall

be no order as to costs. ………………………….CJI
 (Dipak Misra)

 ..…………….…………….J.
 (A.M. Khanwilkar)
New Delhi; March 09, 2018
 REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

 CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION

 WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO. 215 OF 2005

COMMON CAUSE (A REGD. SOCIETY) .....APPELLANT(S)

 VERSUS

UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER .....RESPONDENT(S)

 JUDGMENT
A.K. SIKRI, J. Michael Kirby, a former Judge of the Australian High Court,

 while discussing about the role of judiciary in the context of HIV

 law1, talks about the consciousness with which the judiciary is

 supposed to perform its role. In this hue, while discussing about

 the responsibility of leadership which the society imposes upon

 Judges, he remarks: “Nowhere more is that responsibility tested

 than when a completely new and unexpected problem presents

 itself to society. All the judges’ instincts for legality, fairness and

 reasonableness must then be summoned up, to help lead society

 towards an informed, intelligent and just solution to the problem.”

1 ‘The Role of Judiciary and HIV Law’ – Michael Kirby, published in the book titled ‘HIV Law,
 Ethics and Human Rights’, edited by D.C. Jayasuriya. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 1 of 112 The problem at hand, just solution whereof is imminently needed,

 is that of Euthanasia. This Court is required to summon up

 instincts for legality, fairness and reasonableness in order to find

 just solution to the problem. In this process, the Court is duty

 bound to look into the relevant provisions of the Constitution of

 India, particularly those pertaining to the fundamental rights, and

 to discharge the task of expounding those basic human rights

 enshrined in the Chapter relating to Fundamental Rights. The

 issue of euthanasia, with the seminal importance that is attached

 to it, has thrown the challenge of exposition, development and

 obligation of the constitutional morality and exhorts the Court to

 play its creative role so that a balanced approach to an otherwise

 thorny and highly debatable subject matter is found. 2) The Courts, in dispensation of their judicial duties of deciding

 cases, come across all types of problems which are brought

 before them. These cases may be broadly classified into three

 categories: (i) the easy cases, (ii) the intermediate cases, and (iii)

 the hard cases. Professor Ronald Dworkin2 has argued that each

 legal problem has one lawful solution and even in the hard cases,

 the Judge is never free to choose among alternatives that are all

 inside the bounds of law. This may not be entirely correct

2 Dworkin, “Judicial Discretion,” 6 J. of Phil. 624 (1963) Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 2 of 112 inasmuch as judicial discretion does exist. This is true, at least, in

 solving ‘hard cases’3. It is found that meaning of certain legal

 norms, when applied with respect to a given system of facts, is so

 simple and clear that their application involves no judicial

 discretion. These are termed as the ‘easy cases’. This may even

 apply to ‘intermediate cases’. These would be those cases where

 both sides appear to have a legitimate legal argument supporting

 their position and a conscious act of interpretation is noted,

 before a Judge can conclude which side is right in law and there

 is only one lawful situation. However, when it comes to the hard

 cases, the Court is faced with number of possibilities, all of which

 appear to be lawful within the context of the system. In these

 cases, judicial discretion exists as the choice is not between

 lawful and unlawful, but between lawful and lawful. A number of

 lawful solutions exist. In this scenario, the Court is supposed to

 ultimately choose that solution which is in larger public interest.

 In other words, there are limitations that find the Court with

 respect to the manner in which it choses among possibilities

 (procedural limitations) and with respect to the considerations it

 takes into account in the choice (substantive limitations). Thus,

 discretion when applied to a cout of justice means sound

3 See Aharon Barak: Judicial Discretion, Yale University Press. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 3 of 112 discretion guided by law. It must be govered by legal rules. To

 quote Justice Cardozo: 4 B. Cardozo: The Growth of the Law 144 (1924), at 60-61
5 Justice O. Holmes opined this expression in ‘Collected Legal Papers’ 239 (1921) Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 4 of 112 Constitution Bench in the case titled Gian Kaur v. State of

 Punjab6 . Second case is known as Aruna Ramachandra

 Shanbaug v. Union of India and Others 7, which is a Division

 Bench judgment that takes note of Gian Kaur and premised

 thereupon goes much farther in accepting passive euthanasia as

 a facet of Article 21 of the Constitution. 5) In the instant case, while making reference to the Constitution

 Bench vide its order dated February 25, 2014 8, the three Judge

 Bench has expressed its reservation in the manner the ratio of

 the Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur is applied by the Division

 Bench in Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug. This reference order

 accepts that Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug rightly interpreted

 the decision in Gian Kaur insofar as it held that euthanasia can

 be allowed in India only through a valid legislation. However, the

 reference order declares that Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug

 has committed a factual error in observing that in Gian Kaur the

 Constitution Bench approved the decision of the House of Lords

 in Airedale N.H.S. Trust v. Bland9. As per the reference order,

 Gian Kaur merely referred to the said judgment which cannot be

 construed to mean that the Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur

6 (1996) 2 SCC 648
7 (2011) 4 SCC 454
8 Reported as (2014) 5 SCC 338
9 (1993) 2 WLR 316 (HL) Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 5 of 112 approved the opinion of the House of Lords rendered in Bland. The reference order also accepts the position that in Gian Kaur

 the Constitution Bench approved that ‘right to live with dignity’

 under Article 21 of the Constitution will be inclusive of ‘right to die

 with dignity’. However, it further notes that the decision does not

 arrive at a conclusion for validity of euthanasia, be it active or

 passive. Therefore, the only judgment that holds the field in India

 is Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug, which upholds the validity of

 passive euthanasia and lays down an elaborate procedure for

 executing the same on ‘the wrong premise that the Constitution

 Bench in Gian Kaur had upheld the same’. 6) The aforesaid discussion contained in the reference order

 prompted the reference court to refer the matter to the

 Constitution Bench. No specific questions were framed for

 consideration by the Constitution Bench. However, importance of

 the issue has been highlighted in the reference order in the

 following manner: However, my analysis of the above two judgments is limited to the

 extent it is necessitated for maintaining continuum and clarity of

 thought. 8) At the outset, I say that I am in complete agreement with the

 conclusion and also the directions given therein in the judgment

 of the Hon’ble the Chief Justice and also with the opinions and Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 7 of 112 reasoning of my other two learned brothers. My purpose is not to

 add my ink to the erudite opinion expressed in otherwise eloquent

 opinions penned by my learned brothers. At the same time,

 having regard to the importance of the issue involved, I am

 provoked to express my own few thoughts, in my own way, which

 I express hereinafter. 9) In the writ petition filed by the petitioner – Common Cause, it has

 made the following prayers: (iii) Whether the observations in Aruna Ramachandra

 Shanbaug that the Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur

 permitted passive euthanasia stand correct? (iv) Whether there exists inconsistency in the observations in

 Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug with regard to what has

 been held in Gian Kaur? (v) Whether mere reference to verdict in a judgment can be Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 9 of 112 construed to mean that the verdict is approved? {with

 respect to Article 141 – What is binding?; whether the

 Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur approved the decision of

 the House of Lords in Bland?} (vi) Whether the law on passive euthanasia, as held valid in

 Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug, holds true in the present

 times as well? {The Treatment of Terminally-ill Patients Bill,

 2016 is based on the aforementioned judgment} (vii) Whether active euthanasia is legal in India? (viii) Whether assisted suicide/physician administered suicide is

 legal in India? {The 2016 bill in the current form, under

 Clause 5(3) permits for physician assisted suicide} (ix) Whether there exists a right to a Living Will/Advance

 Directives? Whether there exists the fundamental right to

 choose one’s own medical treatment? {With Right to

 Privacy now a fundamental right under Article 21 , the

 principle of self-determination in India stands on a higher

 footing than before} (x) Definition of ‘Terminal Illness’. 11) It is not necessary for me to answer all the aforesaid questions. I

 say so for the reason that all these aspects are dealt with by the Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 10 of 112 Hon’ble the Chief Justice in his opinion. Therefore, in this

 ‘addendum’, I would be focusing myself to the core issues.

EUTHANASIA DEFINED 12) The Oxford English Dictionary defines ‘euthanasia’ as ‘the

 painless killing of a patient suffering from an incurable and painful

 disease or in an irreversible coma’. The word appears to have

 come into usage in the early 17 th century and was used in the

 sense of ‘easy death’. The term is derived from the Greek

 ‘euthanatos’, with ‘eu’ meaning well, and ‘thanatos’ meaning

 death. In ancient Greece and Rome, citizens were entitled to a

 good death to end the suffering of a terminal illness. To that end,

 the City Magistrates of Athens kept a supply of poison to help the

 dying ‘drink the hemlock’10. 13) The above Greek definition of euthanasia apart, it is a loaded

 term. People have been grappling with it for ages. Devised for

 service in a rhetoric of persuasion, the term ‘euthanasia’ has no

 generally accepted and philosophically warranted core meaning.

 It is also defined as: killing at the request of the person killed.

 That is how the Dutch medical personnel and civil authorities

 define euthanasia. In Nazi discourse, euthanasia was any killing

 carried out by medical means or medically qualified personnel,
10 Michael Manning, Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide (Paulist Press, 1998). Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 11 of 112 whether intended for the termination of suffering and/or of the

 burden or indignity of a life not worth living (Lebensunwertes

 Leben), or for some more evidently public benefit such as

 eugenics (racial purity and hygiene), Lebensraum (living space

 for Germans), and/or minimizing the waste of resources on

 ‘useless mouths’. Understandably, in today’s modern

 democracies these Nazi ideas and practices cannot be

 countenanced. Racist eugenics are condemned, though one

 comes across discreet allusions to the burden and futility of

 sustaining the severely mentally handicapped. The popular

 conception which is widely accepted is that some sorts of life are

 not worth living; life in such a state demeans the patient’s dignity,

 and maintaining it (otherwise than at the patient’s express

 request) insults that dignity; proper respect for the patient and the

 patient’s best interests requires that that life be brought to an end.

 In this thought process, the basic Greek ideology that it signifies

 ‘an easy and gentle death’ still remains valid. Recognition is to

 the Human Rights principle that ‘right to life’ encompasses ‘right

 to die with dignity’. 14) In common parlance, euthanasia can be of three types, namely,

 ‘voluntary euthanasia’ which means killing at the request of a Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 12 of 112 person killed which is to be distinguished from ‘non-voluntary

 euthanasia’, where the person killed is not capable of either

 making or refusing to make such a request. Second type of

 euthanasia would be involuntary euthanasia where the person

 killed is capable of making such a request but has not done so 11.

 These terms can be described as under: 11 These definitions of voluntary, non-voluntary and involuntary euthanasia correspond to those
 employed by the House of Lords Select Committee on Medical Ethics (Walton Committee) Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 13 of 112 that his/her life be ended. This form of Euthanasia is that which

 most intimately concerns the medical profession. Selective non-

 treatment of the new-born or the doctor may be presented with

 demented and otherwise senilely incompetent patients. In

 practice, non-voluntary euthanasia presents only as an arguable

 alternative to non treatment. (iii) Involuntary Euthanasia: It involves ending the patient’s life

 in the absence of either a personal or proxy invitation to do so.

 The motive ‘The relief of suffering’ may be the same as voluntary

 euthanasia-but its only justification - “a paternalistic decision as to

 what is best for the victim of the disease.” In extreme cases it

 could be against the patient’s wishes or could be just for social

 convenience. It is examples of the latter which serve as warnings

 as to those who would invest the medical professional with more

 or unfettered powers over life and death 12. 15) Contrary to the above, in legal parlance, euthanasia has since

 come to be recognised as of two distinct types: the first is active

 euthanasia, where death is caused by the administration of a

 lethal injection or drugs. Active euthanasia also includes

 physician-assisted suicide, where the injection or drugs are

 supplied by the physician, but the act of administration is
12 See Euthanasia and Its Legality and Legitimacy from Indian and International Human Right
 Instruments Perspectives published in Human Rights & Social Justice by Muzafer Assadi Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 14 of 112 undertaken by the patient himself. Active euthanasia is not

 permissible in most countries. The jurisdictions in which it is

 permissible are Canada, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the

 States of Colorado, Vermont, Montana, California, Oregon and

 Washington DC in the United States of America. Passive

 euthanasia occurs when medical practitioners do not provide life-

 sustaining treatment (i.e. treatment necessary to keep a patient

 alive) or remove patients from life sustaining treatment. This

 could include disconnecting life support machines or feeding

 tubes or not carrying out life saving operations or providing life

 extending drugs. In such cases, the omission by the medical

 practitioner is not treated as the cause of death; instead, the

 patient is understood to have died because of his underlying

 condition. 16) In Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug, the Court recognised these

 two types of euthanasia i.e. active and passive. It also noted that

 active euthanasia is impermissible, which was so held by the

 Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur. Therefore, without going into

 further debate on differential that is assigned to the term

 euthanasia, ethically, philosophically, medically etc., we would be

 confining ourselves to the aforesaid legal meaning assigned to Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 15 of 112 active and passive euthanasia. Thus, insofar as active

 euthanasia is concerned, this has to be treated as legally

 impermissible, at least for the time being. It is more so, as there

 is absence of any statutory law permitting active euthanasia. If at

 all, legal provisions in the form of Sections 306 and 307 IPC etc.

 point towards its criminality. The discussion henceforth,

 therefore, would confine to passive euthanasia.

PASSIVE EUTHANASIA AND ARUNA RAMACHANDRA SHANBAUG 17) In Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug, a two Judges’ Bench of this

 Court discussed in much greater detail various nuances of

 euthanasia by referring to active and passive euthanasia as well

 as voluntary and involuntary euthanasia; legality and

 permissibility thereof; relationship of euthanasia vis-a-vis offences

 concerned under the IPC and doctor assisted death; etc. 18) The Court also took note of legislations in some countries relating

 to euthanasia or physician assisted death. Thereafter, it

 discussed in detail the judgment in Bland wherein the House of

 Lords had permitted the patient to die. Ratio of Bland was culled

 out in the following manner: The Court then noted the position of euthanasia with reference to

 Section 306 (abetment of suicide) and Section 309 (attempt to

 commit suicide) of the IPC , inasmuch as, even allowing passive

 euthanasia may come in conflict with the aforesaid provisions

 which make such an act a crime. While making a passing

 observation that Section 309 should be deleted by the Parliament

 as it has become anachronistic, the Court went into the vexed

 question as to who can decide whether life support should be

 discontinued in the case of an incompetent person, e.g. a person

 in coma or PVS. The Court pointed out that it was a vexed

 question, both because of its likely misuse and also because of

 advancement in medical science. It noted: Medical “miracles” are not unknown, but if a person
 has been at a stage where his life is only sustained
 through medical technology, and there has been no
 significant alteration in the person's condition for a
 long period of time—at least a few years—then
 there can be a fair case made out for passive
 euthanasia.” 24) Taking a clue from the judgment in Vishaka and Others v. State

 of Rajasthan and Others13 , the Court laid down the law, while

 allowing passive euthanasia, i.e. the circumstances when there

13 (1997) 6 SCC 241 Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 20 of 112 could be withdrawal of life support of a patient in PVS. This is

 stated in paragraph 124 of the judgment, which we reproduce

 below: In the present case, we have already noted that Aruna
 Shanbaug's parents are dead and other close relatives
 are not interested in her ever since she had the
 unfortunate assault on her. As already noted above, it
 is the KEM Hospital staff, who have been amazingly
 caring for her day and night for so many long years,
 who really are her next friends, and not Ms Pinki Virani
 who has only visited her on few occasions and written
 a book on her. Hence it is for the KEM Hospital staff to
 take that decision. KEM Hospital staff have clearly
 expressed their wish that Aruna Shanbaug should be
 allowed to live. Mr Pallav Shishodia, learned Senior Counsel,
 appearing for the Dean, KEM Hospital, Mumbai,
 submitted that Ms Pinki Virani has no locus standi in
 this case. In our opinion it is not necessary for us to go
 into this question since we are of the opinion that it is Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 21 of 112 the KEM Hospital staff who is really the next friend of
 Aruna Shanbaug. We do not mean to decry or disparage what Ms Pinki
 Virani has done. Rather, we wish to express our
 appreciation of the splendid social spirit she has
 shown. We have seen on the internet that she has
 been espousing many social causes, and we hold her
 in high esteem. All that we wish to say is that however
 much her interest in Aruna Shanbaug may be it cannot
 match the involvement of the KEM Hospital staff who
 have been taking care of Aruna day and night for 38
 years. However, assuming that the KEM Hospital staff at
 some future time changes its mind, in our opinion in
 such a situation KEM Hospital would have to apply to
 the Bombay High Court for approval of the decision to
 withdraw life support. (ii) Hence, even if a decision is taken by the near
 relatives or doctors or next friend to withdraw life
 support, such a decision requires approval from the
 High Court concerned as laid down in Airedale case.

 In our opinion, this is even more necessary in our
 country as we cannot rule out the possibility of
 mischief being done by relatives or others for
 inheriting the property of the patient.” 25) It can be discerned from the reading of the said judgment that

 court was concerned with the question as to whether one can

 seek right to die? This question has been dealt with in the context

 of Article 21 of the Constitution, namely, whether this provision

 gives any such right. As is well-known, Article 21 gives ‘right to

 life’ and it is guaranteed to all the citizens of India. The question

 was as to whether ‘right to die’ is also an integral part of ‘right to Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 22 of 112 life’. In Gian Kaur this ‘right to die’ had not been accepted as an

 integral part of ‘right to life’. The Court in Aruna Ramachandra

 Shanbaug maintained this position insofar as an active

 euthanasia is concerned. However, passive euthanasia, under

 certain circumstances, has been accepted. 26) It may be pertinent to mention that the petitioner (Aruna) in the

 said case was working as a nurse in the King Edward Memorial

 Hospital (KEM), Parel, Mumbai. The tragic incident happened on

 the evening of 27th November, 1973. Aruna was attacked by a

 sweeper in the hospital who wrapped a dog chain around her

 neck and yanked her back with it. He tried to rape her but on

 finding that she was menstruating, he sodomized her. To

 immobilize her during this act, he twisted the chain around her

 neck. She was found unconscious by one cleaner on the next

 day. Her body was on the floor and blood was all over the floor.

 The incident did not allow oxygen to reach her brain as a result of

 which her brain got damaged. 27) The petition was filed by Ms. Pinki Virani as next friend of Aruna

 Shanbaug. According to facts of the case, Aruna has been

 surviving on mashed food as she was not able to chew or taste

 any food and she could not move her hands or legs. It is alleged Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 23 of 112 that there is not the slightest possibility of any improvement in her

 condition and her body lies on the bed in the KEM Hospital like a

 dead animal, and this has been the position for the last 36 years.

 The prayer of the petitioner was that the respondents be directed

 to stop feeding Aruna, and let her die peacefully. 28) The court appointed a team of three eminent and qualified

 doctors to investigate and report on the medical condition of

 Aruna. The team included, Dr. J.V. Divatia 14, Dr. Roop

 Gursahani15 and Dr. Nilesh Shah16. The team of doctors studied

 her medical history and observed that Aruna would get

 uncomfortable if the room in which she was located was over

 crowded, she was calm when fewer people were around her. In

 fact, the hospital staff had taken care and was willing to continue

 to do so. Moreover, Aruna’s body language did not suggest that

 she wants to die. Therefore, the doctors opined that there is no

 need for euthanasia in the instant case. 29) Reliance was placed on the landmark judgment of the House of

 Lords in Bland, where for the first time in the English history, the

 right to die was allowed through the withdrawal of life support

14 Professor and Head, Department of Anesthesia, Critical Care and Pain at Tata Memorial
 Hospital, Mumbai. 15 Consultant Neurologist at P.D. Hinduja, Mumbai.
16 Professor and Head, Department of Psychiatry at Lokmanya Tilak Municipal Corporation
 Medical College and General Hospital. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 24 of 112 systems including food and water. This case placed the authority

 to decide whether a case is fit or not for euthanasia in the hands

 of the court. In this case, Aruna did not have the capacity to

 consent for the proposed medical process. Therefore, the next

 big question that was to be answered was who should decide on

 her behalf. 30) Since, there was no relative traced directly, nor did she have any

 frequent visitor who could relate to her, it was extremely crucial

 for the court to declare who should decide on her behalf. As there

 was lack of acquaintance, it was decided by beneficence.

 Beneficence is acting in the interest that is best for the patient,

 and is not influenced by personal convictions, motives or other

 considerations. Public interest and the interests of the state were

 also considered in the said matter. 31) On the aforesaid principle of beneficence and studying the

 position in some other countries, the court in its judgment said,

 the right to take decision on behalf of Aruna was vested with the

 hospital and its management and not Ms. Pinki. The court also

 said that allowing euthanasia would mean reversing the efforts of

 the hospital and its staff. In order to ensure that there is no

 misuse of this technique, the Supreme Court has vested the Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 25 of 112 power with the High Court to decide if life is to be terminated or

 not. 32) Thus, the Supreme Court allowed passive euthanasia in certain

 conditions, subject to the approval by the High Court following the

 due procedure. It held that when an application for passive

 euthanasia is filed the Chief Justice of the High Court should

 forthwith constitute a Bench of at least two Judges who should

 decide to grant approval or not. Before doing so, the Bench

 should seek the opinion of a committee of three reputed doctors

 to be nominated by the Bench after consulting such medical

 authorities/medical practitioners as it may deem fit.

 Simultaneously with appointing the committee of doctors, the

 High Court Bench shall also issue notice to the State and close

 relatives e.g. parents, spouse, brothers/sisters etc. of the

 committee to them as soon as it is available. After hearing them,

 the High Court Bench should give its verdict. The above

 procedure should be followed all over India until Parliament

 makes legislation on this subject. I am not carrying out the

 critique of this judgment at this stage and the manner in which it

 has been analysed by those who are the proponents of passive

 euthanasia and those who are against it. It is, more so, when my Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 26 of 112 Brother, Chandrachud, J., has dealt with this aspect in detail in

 his discourse. In any case, as noted above, in view of the

 reference order dated February 25, 2014, the validity of this

 aspect has to be examined, which exercise is undertaken by me

 at an appropriate stage. EUTHANASIA: A COMPLEX CONCEPT 33) As discussed hereinafter, issue of euthanasia is a complexed and

 complicated issue over which there have been heated debates,

 not only within the confines of courts, but also among elites,

 intelligentsia and academicians alike. Some of these

 complexities may be captured at this stage itself. 34) The legal regime webbed by various judgments rendered by this

 Court would reflect that the Indian position on the subject is

 somewhat complex and even complicated to certain extend. First,

 let us touch the topic from the constitutional angle. 35) Article 21 of the Constitution mandates that no person shall be

 deprived of his life or personal liberty, except according to the

 procedure established by law. This Article has been interpreted

 by the Court in most expansive terms, particularly when it comes

 to the meaning that is assigned to ‘right to life’. It is not

 necessary to take stock of various faces of right to life defined by Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 27 of 112 this Court. What is important for our purpose is to point out that

 right to life has been treated as more than ‘mere animal

 existence’. In Kharak Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors.17 it was held

 that the word ‘life’ in Article 21 means right to live with human

 dignity and it does not merely connote continued drudgery. It

 takes within its fold “some of the finer graces of human

 civilisation, which makes life worth living” and that the expanded

 concept of life would mean the “tradition, culture and heritage” of

 the concerned person. This concept has been reiterated and

 reinforced, time and again, in a series of judgments. It may not

 be necessary to refer to those judgments. Suffice is to mention

 that a nine Judge Constitution Bench of this Court in K.S.

 Puttaswamy and Another v. Union of India and Others18 has

 taken stock of all important judgments which have echoed the

 message enshrined in Kharak Singh’s case. We may, however,

 point out that in the case of C.E.S.E. Limited and Others v.

 Subhash Chandra Bose and Others19, Justice K. Ramaswamy

 observed that physical and mental health have to be treated as

 integral part of right to life, because without good health the civil

 and political rights assured by our Constitution cannot be 17 (1964) 1 SCR 332
18 (2017) 10 SCC 1
19 (1992) 1 SCC 441 Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 28 of 112 enjoyed. Though Justice Ramaswamy rendered minority opinion

 in that case, on the aforesaid aspect, majority opinion was not

 contrary to the views expressed by Justice Ramaswamy. Thus, Article 21 recognizes right to live with human dignity 20. 36) The question that arises at this juncture is as to whether right to

 life enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution includes right to die.

 If such a right is recognised, that would provide immediate

 answer to the issue involved, which is pertaining to voluntary or

 passive euthanasia. However, the judgments of this Court, as

 discussed hereinafter, would demonstrate that no straightforward

 answer is discernible and, as observed above, the position

 regarding euthanasia is somewhat complex in the process. 37) It would be interesting to point out that in Rustom Cavasjee

 Cooper v. Union of India21 the Court held that what is true of one

 fundamental right is also true of another fundamental right. This

 Court also made a specific observation that there cannot be

 serious dispute about the proposition that fundamental rights

 have their positive as well as negative aspect. For example,

 freedom of speech and expression includes freedom not to

 speak. Likewise, freedom of association and movement includes

20 Aspects of human dignity as right to life in the context of euthanasia shall be discussed in
 greater detail at the relevant stage. 21 (1970) 1 SCC 248 Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 29 of 112 freedom not to join any association or move anywhere. Freedom

 of business includes freedom not to do any business. In this

 context, can it be said that right to life includes right to die or right

 to terminate ones own life? The Constitution Bench in Gian

 Kaur, however, has taken a view that right to live will not include

 right not to live. 38) We have already pointed out that Section 306 of the IPC makes

 abetment to suicide as a punishable offence. Likewise, Section

 309 IPC makes attempt to commit suicide as a punishable

 offence. Intention to commit suicide is an essential ingredient in

 order to constitute an offence under this provision. Thus, this

 provision specifically prohibits a person from terminating his life

 and negates right to die. Constitutional validity of this provision,

 on the touchstone of Article 21 , was the subject matter of Gian

 Kaur’s case22. The Court held Sections 306 and 309 IPC to be

 constitutionally valid. While so holding, the Court observed that

 when a man commits suicide, he has to undertake certain

22 It may be noted that the Delhi High Court in State v. Sanjay Kumar , (1985) Crl.L.J. 931, and the
 Bombay High Court in Maruti Sharipati Dubai v. State of Maharashtra , (1987) Crl.L.J. 743, had
 taken the view that Section 309 of IPC was unconstitutional, being violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. On the other hand, the Andhra Pradesh High Court in C. Jagadeeswar v.
 State of Andhra Pradesh , (1983) Crl.L.J. 549, had upheld the validity of Section 309 holding that
 it did not offend either Article 14 or Article 21 of the Constitution. A Division Bench of this Court
 in R. Rathinam v. Union of India and Another , (1994) 3 SCC 394, had held that Section 309 IPC
 deserves to be effaced from the statute book to humanise our penal laws, terming this provision
 as cruel and irrational, which results in punishing a person again who had already suffered
 agony and would be undergoing ignominy because of his failure to commit suicide. It is in this
 backdrop Gian Kaur’s case was referred to and decided by the Constitution Bench. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 30 of 112 positive overt acts and the genesis of those acts cannot be traced

 to, or be included within the protection of the ‘right to life’ under Article 21. The significant aspect of ‘sanctity of life’ is also not to

 be overlooked. Article 21 is a provision guaranteeing protection

 of life and personal liberty and by no stretch of imagination can

 ‘extinction of life’ be read to be included in ‘protection of life’.

 Whatever may be the philosophy of permitting a person to

 extinguish his life by committing suicide, the Court found it difficult

 to construe Article 21 to include within it the ‘right to die’ as a part

 of the fundamental right guaranteed therein. ‘Right to life’ is a

 natural right embodied in Article 21 but suicide is an unnatural

 termination or extinction of life and, therefore, incompatible and

 inconsistent with the concept of ‘right to life’. Thus, the legal position which stands as of today is that

 right to life does not include right to die. It is in this background

 we have to determine the legality of passive euthanasia. 39) Matter gets further complicated when it is examined in the context

 of morality of medical science (Hippocratic Oath). Every doctor is

 supposed to take specific oath that he will make every attempt to

 safe the life of the patient whom he/she is treating and who is

 under his/her treatment. The Hippocratic Oath goes on to say: This point is highlighted at this juncture just to demonstrate the

 complexity of the issue. 42) I may add that the issue is not purely a legal one. It has moral

 and philosophical overtones. It has even religious overtones. As

 Professor Upendra Baxi rightly remarks that judges are, in fact,

 not jurisprudes. At the same time, it is increasingly becoming

 important that some jurisprudential discussion ensues while

 deciding those cases which have such more and philosophical

 overtones as well. Such an analyses provides not only legal

 basis for the conclusions arrived at but it also provides logical

 commonsense justification as well. Obviously, whenever the

 court is entering into a new territory and is developing a new legal

 norm, discussion on normative jurisprudence assumes greater

 significance as the court is called upon to decide what the legal

 norm should be. At the same time, this normative jurisprudence

 discourse has to be preceded by analytical jurisprudence, which Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 34 of 112 is necessary for the court to underline existing nature of law. That would facilitate knowing legal framework of what is the

 current scenario and, in turn, help in finding the correct answers.

 When we discuss about the philosophical aspects of the subject

 matter, it is the ‘value of life’ which becomes the foremost focus of

 discussion. The discussion which follows hereinafter keeps in

 mind these parameters. THE TWO ISSUES 43) As already stated above, as of now insofar ‘active euthanasia’ is

 concerned, it is legally impermissible. Our discussion centres

 around ‘passive euthanasia’. Another aspect which needs to be

 mentioned at this stage is that in the present petition filed by the

 petitioner, the petitioner wants that ‘advance directive’ or ‘living

 will’ should be legally recognised. In this backdrop, two important

 questions arise for considerations, viz.,

 (I) whether passive euthanasia, voluntary or even, in certain

 circumstances, involuntary, is legally permissible? If so

 under what circumstances (this question squarely calls for

 answer having regards to the reference order made in the

 instant petition)? and

 (II) whether a ‘living will’ or ‘advance directive’ should be legally Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 35 of 112 recognised and can be enforced? If so, under what

 circumstances and what precautions are required while

 permitting it? 44) Answers to these questions have been provided in the judgment

 of Hon’ble The Chief Justice, with excellent discourse on all

 relevant aspects in an inimitable and poetic style. I entirely agree

 with the reasoning and outcome. In fact, with the same fervour

 and conclusion, separate judgments are written by my brothers,

 Dhananjay Chandrachud and Ashok Bhushan, JJ. exhibiting

 expected eloquence and erudition. I have gone through those

 opinions and am in complete agreement thereby. In this

 scenario, in my own way, I intend to deal with the aforesaid

 questions on the following hypothesis: With the outlining of the structured process as aforesaid, I

 proceed to discuss these aspects in detail hereinafter. 45) As pointed out above, Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug decides

 that passive euthanasia, even involuntary, in certain

 circumstances would be justified. The reference order in the

 instant case, however, mentions that for coming to this

 conclusion, the Bench relied upon Gian Kaur, but that case does Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 37 of 112 not provide any such mandate. In this backdrop, we take up the

 first question about the legality of passive euthanasia.

FIRST ISSUE

 Whether passive euthanasia, voluntary or even, in
 certain circumstances, involuntary, is legally
 permissible? If so under what circumstances (this
 question squarely calls for answer having regards to
 the reference order made in the instant petition)? 46) I intend to approach this question by discussing the following

 facets thereof: “I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul” - William Ernest Henley23

 “Death is our friend … he delivers us from agony. I do
 not want to die of a creeping paralysis of my faculties – a
 defeated man.” - Mahatma Gandhi24

 “When a man’s circumstances contain a preponderance
 of things in accordance with nature, it is appropriate for
 him to remain alive; when possess or sees in prospect a
 majority of contrary, it is appropriate for him to depart
 from life.” - Marcus Tullius Cicero
23 As quoted in P. Rathinam v. Union of India & Anr. , (1994) 3 SCC 394
24 Same as in 14 above. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 38 of 112 “Euthanasia, and especially physician-assisted suicide,
 appears as the ultimate post-modern demand for dignity
 in an era of technologically-mediated death.” - Dr. Jonathan Moreno 47) The afore-quoted sayings of some great persons bring out a

 fundamental truth with universal applicability. Every persons

 wants to lead life with good health and all kinds of happiness. At

 the same time, nobody wants any pain, agony or sufferings when

 his or her life span comes to an end and that person has to meet

 death. The following opening stanza from a song in a film

 captures this message beautifully: could lead a life which is worth living; and depart this world

 peacefully. He successfully achieved this purpose of life and

 became Gautam Buddha. There are many such similar Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 39 of 112 examples. Life is mortal. It is transitory. It is as fragile as any other

 object. It is a harsh reality that no human being, or for that

 matter, no living being, can live forever. Every creature who takes

 birth on this planet earth has to die one day. Life has a limited

 shelf age. In fact, unlike the objects and articles which are

 produced by human beings and may carry almost same life span,

 insofar as humans themselves are concerned, span of life is also

 uncertain. Nobody knows how long he/she will be able to live.

 The gospel truth is that everybody has to die one day,

 notwithstanding the pious wish of a man to live forever 25. As

 Woody Allen said once: ‘I do not want to achieve immortality

 through my work. I want to achieve it through not dying’. At the

 same time, nobody wants to have a tragic end to life. We all want

 to leave the world in a peaceful manner. In this sense, the term

 ‘euthanasia’ which has its origin in Greek language signifies ‘an

 easy and gentle death’. 49) According to Charles I. Lugosi, the sanctity of life ethic no longer

 dominates American medical philosophy. Instead, quality of life

 has become the modern approach to manage human life that is

25 It is well known that medical scientists are intensely busy in finding the ways to become ageless
 and immortal, but till date have remained unsuccessful in achieving this dream. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 40 of 112 at the margin of utility26. It is interesting to note that the issue of

 euthanasia was debated in India in 1928. Probably this was the

 first public debate on euthanasia to be reported. A Calf in

 Gandhi’s ashram was ailing under great pain. In spite of every

 possible treatment and nursing…the condition of the calf was so

 bad that it could not even change its side or even it could not be

 lifted about in order to prevent pressure ulcers/sores. It could not

 even take nourishment and was tormented by flies. The surgeon

 whose advice was sought in this matter declared the case to be

 past help and past hope. After painful days of hesitation and

 discussions with the managing committee of Goseva Sangh and

 the inmates of the ashram, Gandhi made up his mind to end the

 life of the calf in a painless way as possible. There was a

 commotion in orthodox circles and Gandhi critically examined the

 question through his article which appeared in Navajivan (dated

 30-9-1928) and Young India (4-10-1928). Probably this was the

 first public debate on euthanasia and animal/veterinary

 euthanasia and the debate also covered the issue of human

 euthanasia. It is equally interesting to note that Gandhi and his

 critics discussed the issue of ‘painlessly ending the life to end

 suffering’ without using the term ‘euthanasia’. But, he meant the
26 Charles I. Lugosi, ‘Natural Disaster, Unnatural Deaths: The Killings on the Life Care Floors at
 Tenet’s Memorial Centre after Hurricane Katrina’, Issues in Law and Medicine, Vol. 23, Summer,
 2007. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 41 of 112 same. Further it is more interesting to learn that at various

 instances Gandhiji had touched upon the issues of the present

 day debates on Voluntary euthanasia, Non-voluntary euthanasia,

 Involuntary euthanasia, as well as passive euthanasia, active

 euthanasia, physician-assisted euthanasia and the rejection or

 ‘termination of treatment’. Gandhi advocated the development of

 positive outlook towards life and strived for the humane nursing

 and medical care even when cure was impossible. It was the way

 he analysed Karma and submitted to the will of the God. 50) Mahatma Gandhi said: determination. He writes: “over himself, over his own body and

 mind, the individual is sovereign...he is the person most

 interested in his own well being.” These words were written over

 a century ago. 53) Philosophically, therefore, one may argue that if a person who is

 undergoing miserable and untold sufferings and does not want to

 continue dreadful agony and is terminally ill, he should be free to

 make his choice to terminate his life and to put an end to his life

 so that he dies peacefully. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 45 of 112 54) At the same time, Buddhism, Jainism and Hinduism are against

 euthanasia. However, their concept of ‘good death’ is extremely

 interesting – specially principles of Buddhism as they are echoed

 in the present day understanding of euthanasia. Without

 elaborating and to put it in nutshell: particular norm of law, the law per se is to be applied and,

 generally speaking, it is not the function of the Courts to look into

 the moral basis of law. At the same time, some legal norms,

 particularly those which are jurisprudentially expounded by the

 Courts or developed as common law principles, would have

 moral backing behind them. In that sense moral aspects of an

 issue may assume relevance. This relevancy and rationale is

 quite evident in the discussion about euthanasia. In fact, the very

 concept of dignity of life is substantially backed by moral

 overtones. We may remind ourselves with the following classical

 words uttered by Immanuel Kant: He also points towards morality as the substantive aims of law. In

 fact, as would be noticed later, the conceptualisation of doctrine

 of dignity by Ronald Dworkin is supported with moral ethos. With

 the aid of dignity principle, he has argued in favour of euthanasia.

 Likewise, and ironically, John Finnis, Professor of Law and Legal

 Philosophy Emeritus in the University of Oxford, while opposing

 euthanasia, also falls back on the morality conception thereof. It

 is this peculiar feature which drives us to discuss the issue of

 euthanasia from the stand point of morality. 58) Influenced primarily by the aforesaid considerations, I deem it

 relevant to indulge into discussion on morality. 59) When we come to the moral aspects of ‘end of life’ issues, we

 face the situation of dilemma. On the one hand, it is an accepted

 belief that every human being wants to die peacefully. Nobody

 wants to undergo any kind of suffering in his last days. So much

 so a person who meets his destiny by sudden death or easy

 death is often considered as a person who would have lived his

 life by practicing moral and ethical values. Rightly or wrongly, it is
33 Lon L. Fuller: The Morality of Law (Revised Edition), Yale University Press Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 49 of 112 perceived that such a person who exhibited graceful behaviour

 while living his life is bestowed grace by the death when time to

 depart came. However, it does not happen to most of the people.

 Ageing is a natural phenomena. No doubt, as the person

 advances in age, he becomes mature in his wisdom. However,

 old age brings, along with it, various ailments and diseases as

 well. Physical health and physical functioning declines over the

 life course, particularly, in later life. A rise in chronic disease and

 other conditions such as arthritis, high blood pressure and obesity

 can cause loss in function and lead to generally decreasing

 trajectory for health over the lifespan. Thus, ageing has both

 positive and negative aspects. This ageing leads to extinction of

 human life which may generally be preceded by grave sickness

 and disease. 60) Horace, Roman poet in his poem on the ‘Ages of Man’ wrote

 quiet scathingly of the attributes of old age: Protagonists on ‘SOL’ principle believe that life should be

 preserved at all costs and the least which is expected is that Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 51 of 112 there should not be a deliberate destruction of human life, though

 it does not demand that life should always be prolonged as long

 as possible. 62) It might therefore be argued, as Emily Jackson (2008) cogently

 does, that the law’s recognition that withdrawal of life-prolonging

 treatment is sometimes legitimate is not so much an exception to

 the SOL principle, as an embodiment of it. 63) In the most secular judicial interpretation of the SOL doctrine yet,

 Denman J of the UKHL explicated thus: foreseen side effects is significant by giving importance to free

 choice. There would be free choice, he argues, only when one is

 rationally motivated towards incompatible alternative possible

 purposes. Therefore, there may be a possibility that a person

 may choose euthanasia but not as a free choice and it would be

 morally wrong. In a situation where that person is not in a

 position to make a choice (for e.g. when he is in comma) this

 choice shall be exercised by others which, according to him,

 violates the autonomy of the person involved. It is significant to

 mention that Finnis accepts that autonomy of the patient or

 prospective patient counts. It reads: It is, thus, clear that taking shelter of same morality

 principles, jurists have reached opposing conclusions. Whereas

 euthanasia is morally impermissible in the estimation of some,

 others treat it as perfectly justified. As would be noted later, riding

 on these very moral principles, Dworkin developed the dignity of

 life argument and justified euthanasia. The aforesaid discussion on the philosophy of euthanasia,

 coupled with its morality aspect, brings out the conflicting views.

 Though philosophical as well as religious overtones may indicate

 that a person does not have right to take his life, it is still

 recognised that a human being is justified in his expectation to

 have a peaceful and dignified death. Opposition to euthanasia,

 on moral grounds, proceeds primarily on the basis that neither the

 concerned person has a right to take his own life, which is God’s

 creation, nor anybody else has this right. However, one startling

 feature which is to be noted in this opposition is that while

 opposing euthanasia, no segregated discussion on active and Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 56 of 112 passive euthanasia is made. It also does not take into

 consideration permissibility of passive euthanasia under certain

 specific circumstances. Clarity on this aspect is achieved when

 we discus the issue of euthanasia in the context of dignity. (C) Dignity in Euthanasia 70) This Court acknowledges its awareness of the sensitive and

 emotional nature of euthanasia controversy, and the vigours of

 opposing views, even within the medical fraternity, and seemingly

 absolute convictions that the subject inspires. This is so

 demonstrated above while discussing philosophical, moral,

 ethical and religious overtones of the subject involved. These

 valid aspects, coupled with one’s attitude towards life and family

 and their values, are likely to influence and to colour one’s

 thinking and conclusions about euthanasia. Notwithstanding the

 same, these aspects make the case as ‘hard case’. However, at

 the end of the day, the Court is to resolve the issue by

 constitutional measurements, free of emotion and of predilection.

 One has to bear in mind what Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr.

 said in his dissenting judgment in Lochner v. New York37, which

 is reproduced below: 72) Let me first discuss certain aspects of human dignity in general. Insofar as concept of human dignity is concerned, it dates back to

 thousands of years. Historically, human dignity, as a concept,

 found its origin in different religions which is held to be an

 important component of their theological approach. Later, it was

 also influenced by the views of philosophers who developed

 human dignity in their contemplations38. Jurisprudentially, three

 types of models for determining the content of the constitutional

 value of human dignity are recognised. These are: (i) Theological

 Model, (ii) Philosophical Model, and (iii) Constitutional Model.

 Legal scholars were called upon to determine the theological

 basis of human dignity as a constitutional value and as a

 constitutional right. Philosophers also came out with their views

 justifying human dignity as core human value. Legal

 understanding is influenced by theological and philosophical
38 Though western thinking is that the concept of human dignity has 2500 years' history, in many
 eastern civilizations including India human dignity as core human value was recognised
 thousands of years ago Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 58 of 112 views, though these two are not identical. Aquinas, Kant as well

 as Dworkin discussed the jurisprudential aspects of human

 dignity. Over a period of time, human dignity has found its way

 through constitutionalism, whether written or unwritten.

Theological Model of Dignity
 'Amritasya Putrah Vayam'

 [We are all begotten of the immortal.] This is how Hinduism
 introduces human beings. 'Every individual soul is potentially divine'
 – proclaimed Swami Vivekananda 73) Hinduism doesn't recognize human beings as mere material

 beings. Its understanding of human identity is more ethical-

 spiritual than material. That is why a sense of immortality and

 divinity is attributed to all human beings in Hindu classical

 literature. 74) Professor S.D. Sharma, sums up the position with following

 analysis39: 39 Prof. S.D. Sharma : “Administration of Justice in Ancient Bharat”, (1988). Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 59 of 112 75) It is on the principle that the soul that makes the body of all living

 organisms its abode is in fact an integral part of the Divine Whole

 – Paramaatman – that the Vedas declare unequivocally: His supreme goal is to know God. Thus he is set apart from a

 slave and from all the creations under him. When a man sins, he

 loses his human dignity. He becomes an object 40.

Philosophical Model of Dignity 79) The modern conception of human dignity was affected by the

 philosophy of Kant41. Kant's moral theory is divided into two

 parts: ethics and right (jurisprudence). The discussion of human

 dignity took place within his doctrine of ethics and does not

 appear in his jurisprudence42. Kant's jurisprudence features the

 concept of a person's right to freedom as a human being. 80) According to Kant, a person acts ethically when he acts by force

 of a duty that a rational agent self-legislates onto his own will.

 This self-legislated duty is not accompanied by any right or

 coercion, and is not correlative to the rights of others. For Kant,
40 Based on the approach of Thomas Aquinas (1225-1274) in his work Summa Theologia
41 See Toman E. Hill, 'Humanity as an End in itself' (1980) 91 Ethics 84
42 See Pfordten, 'On the Dignity of Man in Kant' Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 61 of 112 ethics includes duties to oneself (e.g. to develop one's talents)

 and to others (e.g. to contribute to their happiness). This ability is

 the human dignity of man. This is what makes a person different

 than an object. This ability makes a person into an end, and

 prevents her from being a mere means in the hands of another. 81) Professor Upendra Baxi in his First Justice H.R. Khanna

 Memorial Lecture43, on the topic Protection of Dignity of Individual

 under the Constitution of India has very aptly remarked that

 dignity notions, like the idea of human rights, are supposed to be

 the gifts of the West to the Rest, though, this view is based on the

 prescribed ignorance of the rich traditions of non-European

 countries. He, then, explains Eurocentric view of human dignity

 by pointing out that it views dignity in terms of personhood (moral

 agency) and autonomy (freedom of choice). Dignity here is to be

 treated as 'empowerment' which makes a triple demand in the

 name of respect for human dignity, namely: 43 Delivered on 25th February, 2010 at Indian Institute of Public Administration, New Delhi. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 62 of 112 choice. 82) To the aforesaid, Professor Baxi adds: 44 See Article of Jeremy Waldron : “How Law Protects Dignity” Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 63 of 112 84) Kant, on the other hand, has initially used dignity as a 'value idea',

 though in his later work he also talks of 'respect' which a person

 needs to accord to other person, thereby speaking of it more as a

 matter of status. Constitutional Perspective of Dignity 85) The most important lesson which was learnt as a result of Second

 World War was the realization by the Governments of various

 countries about the human dignity which needed to be cherished

 and protected. It is for this reason that in the U.N. Charter, 1945,

 adopted immediately after the Second World War, dignity of the

 individuals was mentioned as of core value. The almost

 contemporaneous Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948)

 echoed same sentiments. 86) Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions explicitly prohibits “outrages

 upon personal dignity”. There are provisions to this effect in

 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( Article 7 ) and

 the European Convention of Human Rights ( Article 3 ) though

 implicit. However, one can easily infer the said implicit message

 in these documents about human dignity. The ICCPR begins its

 preamble with the acknowledgment that the rights contained in

 the covenant “derive from the inherent dignity of the human Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 64 of 112 person”. And some philosophers say the same thing. Even if this

 is not a connection between dignity and law as such, it certainly

 purports to identify a wholesale connection between dignity and

 the branch of law devoted to human rights. One of the key facets

 of twenty-first century democracies is the primary importance

 they give to the protection of human rights. From this

 perspective, dignity is the expression of a basic value accepted in

 a broad sense by all people, and thus constitutes the first

 cornerstone in the edifice of human rights. Therefore, there is a

 certain fundamental value to the notion of human dignity, which

 some would consider a pivotal right deeply rooted in any notion of

 justice, fairness, and a society based on basic rights. 87) Aharon Barak, former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of

 Israel, attributes two roles to the concept of human dignity as a

 constitutional value, which are: 88) Within two years of the adoption of the aforesaid Universal

 Declaration of Human Rights that all human beings are born free

 and equal in dignity and rights, India attained independence and

 immediately thereafter Members of the Constituent Assembly

 took up the task of framing the Constitution of this Country. It was

 but natural to include a Bill of Rights in the Indian Constitution

 and the Constitution Makers did so by incorporating a Chapter on

 Fundamental Rights in Part III of the Constitution. However, it

 would be significant to point out that there is no mention of

 “dignity” specifically in this Chapter on Fundamental Rights. So

 was the position in the American Constitution. In America, human

 dignity as a part of human rights was brought in as a Judge-made

 doctrine. Same course of action followed as the Indian Supreme

 Court read human dignity into Articles 14 and 21 of the

 Constitution. 89) Before coming to the interpretative process that has been

 developed by this Court in evolving the aura of human dignity Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 66 of 112 predicated on Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution, I am

 provoked to discuss as to how Dworkin perceives interpretative

 process adopted by a Judge. 90) Dworkin, being a philosopher – jurist, was aware of the idea of a

 Constitution and of a constitutional right to human dignity. In his

 book, Taking Rights Seriously, he noted that everyone who takes

 rights seriously must give an answer to the question why human

 rights vis-a-vis the State exist. According to him, in order to give

 such an answer one must accept, as a minimum, the idea of

 human dignity. As he writes: 45 Ibid., 1
46 Ronald Dworkin, Is Democracy Possible Here? Principles for a New Political Debate (Princeton
 University Press, 2006). Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 67 of 112 principle, every person has the responsibility for success in his

 own life and, therefore, he must use his discretion regarding the

 way of life that will be successful from his point of view. Thus,

 Dworkin's jurisprudence of human dignity is founded on the

 aforesaid two principles which, together, not only define the basis

 but the conditions for human dignity. Dworkin went on to develop

 and expand these principles in his book, Justice for Hedgehogs

 (2011)47. 92) When speaking of rights, it is impossible to envisage it without

 dignity. In his pioneering and all inclusive “Justice for

 Hedgehogs”, he proffered an approach where respect for human

 dignity, entails two requirements; first, self-respect, i.e., taking the

 objective importance of one’s own life seriously; this represents

 the free will of the person, his capacity to think for himself and to

 control his own life and second, authenticity, i.e., accepting a

 “special, personal responsibility for identifying what counts as

 success” in one’s own life and for creating that life “through a

 coherent narrative” that one has chosen. 48 According to Dworkin,

 these principles form the fundamental criteria supervising what

 we should do in order to live well. 49 They further explicate the

47 Ibid 13
48 Kenneth W. Simons, Dworkin’s Two Principle of Dignity: An unsatisfactory Nonconsequentialist Account of
 Interpersonal Moral Duties, 90 Boston law Rev. 715 (2010)
49 Ibid Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 68 of 112 rights that individuals have against their political community, 50 and

 they provide a rationale for the moral duties we owe to others.

 This notion of dignity, which Dworkin gives utmost importance to,

 is indispensable to any civilised society. It is what is

 constitutionally recognised in our country and for good reason.

 Living well is a moral responsibility of individuals; it is a continuing

 process that is not a static condition of character but a mode that

 an individual constantly endeavours to imbibe. A life lived without

 dignity, is not a life lived at all for living well implies a conception

 of human dignity which Dworkin interprets includes ideals of self-

 respect and authenticity. 93) This constitutional value of human dignity, has been beautifully

 illustrated by Aharon Barak, as under: 50 Supra 15
51 Aharon Barak, Human Dignity : The Constitutional Value and the Constitutional Right Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 69 of 112 This notion of dignity, as conceptualised by Dworkin, fits like a

 glove in our constitutional scheme. In a series of judgments,

 dignity, as an aspect of Article 21 , stands firmly recognised. Most

 of the important judgments have been taken note of and

 discussed in K.S. Puttaswamy52. 95) In K.S. Puttaswamy, the Constitution Bench has recognised the

 dignity of existence. Liberty and autonomy are regarded as the

 essential attributes of a life with dignity. In this manner, sanctity

 of life also stands acknowledged, as part of Article 21 of the

 Constitution. That apart, while holding the right of privacy as an

 intrinsic part of right to life and liberty in Article 21 , various facets

 thereof are discussed by the learned Judges in their separate

 opinions. A common theme which flows in all these opinions is

 that that privacy recognises the autonomy of the individual; every

 person has right to make essential choices which affect the

 course of life; he has to be given full liberty and freedom in order

 to achieve his desired goals of life; and the concept of privacy is

 contained not merely in personal liberty, but also in the dignity of

 the individual. Justice Chelameshwar, in K.S. Puttaswamy,

52 Prem Shankar Shukla v. UT of Delhi, (1980) 3 SCC 526; Francis Coralie Mullin v. UT of Delhi ,
 (1981) 1 SCC 608; Bandhua Mukti Morcha v. Union of India , (1984) 3 SCC 161; Khedat
 Mazdoor Chetna Sangath v. State of Madhya Pradesh , (1994) 6 SCC 260; M. Nagaraj v. Union
 of India , ( 2006) 8 SCC 212, Maharashtra University of Health Sciences v. Satchikitsa Prasarak
 Mandal , (2010) 3 SCC 786; Selvi v. State of Karnataka , (2010) 7 SCC 263; Mehmood Nayyar
 Azam v. State of Chhattisgarh , (2012) 8 SCC 1; Shabnam v. Union of India , (2015) 6 SCC 702; Jeeja Ghosh v. Union of India , (2016) 7 SCC 761. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 70 of 112 made certain specific comments which are reflective of

 euthanasia, though this term is not specifically used. He

 observed: “forced feeding of certain persons by the State raises

 concerns of privacy and individual’s right to refuse life prolonging

 medical treatment or terminate his life is another freedom which

 falls within the zone of privacy.” 96) Liberty by itself, which is a facet of Article 21 of the Constitution,

 duly recognised in K.S. Puttaswamy, ensures and guarantees

 such a choice to the individual. In fact, the entire structure of civil

 liberties presupposes that freedom is worth fostering. The very

 notion of liberty is considered as good for the society. It is also

 recognised that there are some rights, encompassing liberty,

 which are needed in order to protect freedom. David Feldman53

 beautifully describes as to why freedom (or liberty) is given: 53 David Feldman: Civil Liberties & Human Rights in England & Wales Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 71 of 112 that they should have priority over the pursuit of social
 goods (such as economic development) perhaps even to
 the extent of giving them the status of entrenched,
 constitutional rights, in order to shield them from
 challenge in the day-to-day rough and tumble of political
 contention. This gives liberty a priority over other values,
 which, whether viewed as a description of liberal society
 or as a prescription for its improvement, is very
 controversial. Philosophers have doubted whether there
 are adequate grounds for the priority of liberty. Professor
 H.L.A. Hart has argued that (at least in a society where
 there is limited abundance of wealth and resources) it is
 rational to prefer basic freedoms to an improvement I
 material conditions only if one harbours the ideal of ‘a
 public-spirited citizen who prizes political activity and
 service to others as among the chief goods of life and
 could not contemplate as tolerable an exchange of the
 opportunities of such activity for mere material goods or
 contentment’. A rather different thesis runs through Professor Joseph
 Raz’s book, The Morality of Freedom: people are
 autonomous moral actors, and autonomy is given
 expression primarily through making one’s own
 decisions, but such freedom is valuable partly because it
 advances social ends. Raz points out that the
 identification of basic liberties therefore depends, in pat
 at least, on governmental notions of the public good. In
 respect of rights to freedom of expression, privacy,
 freedom of religion, and freedom from discrimination, for
 example, ‘one reason for affording special protection to
 individual interests is that thereby one also protects a
 collective good, an aspect of a public culture’. At the
 same time, certain social goods are needed if freedom is
 to have value. Freedom is useful only if the social and
 economic structure of society provides a sufficient range
 of choices to allow people’s capacity for choice to be
 exercised. Accordingly, freedom is seen as a collective
 rather than an individual good. This may constrain the
 range of freedoms and the purposes to which they may
 morally be put: a decision to make a freedom into a
 constitutional right is an expression of the collective
 political culture of a community. This thesis does not
 make the morality of freedom depend on people striving
 for perfection: individuals may not always, or ever, think
 about the moral consequences of their decisions, or may
 consciously make decisions which do not make for self- Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 72 of 112 improvement. Instead, it looks only for a social
 commitment to the idea of the moral significance of
 individual choice. Raz marries the idea of the individual
 to that of society by recognizing that individual freedom
 of choice is contingent on social arrangements.” 97) In his Article, Life’s Dominion, Ronald Dworkin, while building the

 hypothesis on dignity concept, exhorts that people must decide

 about their own death, or someone else’s in three main kind of

 situations, namely, (i) conscious and competent: it is a situation

 where a person is suffering from some serious illness because of

 which he is incapacitated but he is still conscious and also

 competent to decide about his fate, he should be given a choice

 to decide as to whether he wants to continue to get the treatment; (ii) unconscious: where the patient is unconscious and dying,

 doctors are often forced to decide whether to continue life support

 for him or not under certain circumstances relatives have to take

 a decision. However, at times, unconscious patients are not

 about to die. At the same time, they are either in coma or in PVS.

 In either case, they are conscious. In such a situation, where

 recovery is impossible, it should be left to the relatives to decide

 as to whether they want the patient to remain on life support

 (ventilator, etc.); and (iii) conscious but incompetent. These

 factors may support, what is known as ‘living will’ or ‘advance

 directive’, which aspect is dealt with specifically while answering Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 73 of 112 the second issue. 98) When a person is undergoing untold suffering and misery

 because of the disease with which he is suffering and at times

 even unable to bear the same, continuing to put him on artificial

 machines to prolong his vegetable life would amount to violating

 his dignity. These are the arguments which are raised by some

 jurists and sociologists54. 99) There is a related, but interesting, aspect of this dignity which

 needs to be emphasised. Right to health is a part of Article 21 of

 the Constitution. At the same time, it is also a harsh reality that

 everybody is not able to enjoy that right because of poverty etc.

 The State is not in a position to translate into reality this right to

 health for all citizens. Thus, when citizens are not guaranteed the

 right to health, can they be denied right to die in dignity? 100) In the context of euthanasia, ‘personal autonomy’ of an individual,

 as a part of human dignity, can be pressed into service. In National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India and

 Others55 , this Court observed: 54 (I) Morris: Voluntary Euthanasia (ii) LW Sumner: Dignity through Thick and Thin, in Sebastian Muders, “Human Dignity and
 Assisted Death (Oxford University Press, 2017).
55 ( 2014) 5 SCC 438 Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 74 of 112 Anuj Garg v. Hotel Assn. of India [(2008) 3 SCC 1]
 (SCC p. 15, paras 34-35), this Court held that
 personal autonomy includes both the negative right of
 not to be subject to interference by others and the
 positive right of individuals to make decisions about
 their life, to express themselves and to choose which
 activities to take part in. Self-determination of gender
 is an integral part of personal autonomy and self-
 expression and falls within the realm of personal
 liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution
 of India.” 101) In addition to personal autonomy, other facets of human dignity,

 namely, ‘self expression’ and ‘right to determine’ also support the

 argument that it is the choice of the patient to receive or not to

 receive treatment. 102) We may again mention that talking particularly about certain hard

 cases involving moral overtones, Dworkin specifically discussed

 the issues pertaining to abortion and euthanasia with emphasis

 that both supporters and critics accept the idea of sanctity of life.

 Decisions regarding death – whether by abortion or by

 euthanasia – affect our human dignity. In Dworkin's opinion,

 proper recognition of human dignity leads to the recognition of the

 freedom of the individual. Freedom is a necessary condition for

 self worth. Dworkin adds: “Because we cherish dignity, we insist

 on freedom .… Because we honour dignity, we demand

 democracy.”56

56 Ibid., at 239 Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 75 of 112 103) Dignity is, thus, the core value of life and dying in dignity stands

 recognised in Gian Kaur. It becomes a part of right of self

 determination. 104) The important message behind Dworkin’s concept of human

 dignity can be summarised in the following manner: 57 R Dworkin, Life’s Dominion (London, Harper-Collins, 1993) at 166.
58 R Dworkin, Life’s Dominion (London, HarperCollins, 1993) at 179.
59 Ibid. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 76 of 112 the context of death with dignity):  Reason and emotion are both significant in treatment

 decisions, especially at the end of life where compassion

60 A Kolnai, “Dignity”, in R S Dillon (ed.) Dignity, Character, and Self-Respect (London, Routledge, 1995)
 53–75, at 55. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 77 of 112 is a natural response to appeals made on the basis of

 stifled self-determination;  Compassion represents a collision of “imaginative

 insight” and empathy; and

  Compassion is here distinguished from pity, which is

 regarded as “inappropriate to the dignity of the

 autonomous person, especially its overtones of

 paternalism”,61 because compassion is believed to

 provoke an active, and by implication positive,

 response.62 (x) Dignity engenders a sense of serenity and
 powerfulness, fortified by “qualities of composure, calmness,
 restraint, reserve, and emotions or passions subdued and
 securely controlled without being negated or dissolved” 63; and (x) Observer’s Dignity aspect: 61 R S Downie, K S Calman, Healthy Respect: Ethics in Health Care (Oxford, Oxford University Press,
 1994) at 51–53. 62 Ibid. 63 A Kolnai, “Dignity”, in R S Dillon (ed.) Dignity, Character, and Self-Respect (London, Routledge, 1995)
 53–75, at 56. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 78 of 112 people’s perceptions of death and dying, especially as it

 appears to embody a spirit of self-determination that

 advocates of voluntary euthanasia crave. 106) Once we examine the matter in the aforesaid perspective, the

 inevitable conclusion would be that passive euthanasia and death

 with dignity are inextricably linked, which can be summed up with

 the following pointers: 64 Dr.R.R. Kishore,MD, LLB – End of Life Issues and the Moral Certainty: A Discovery through
 Hinduism Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 81 of 112 potential of keeping alive the terminally ill and incurable
 persons who would have otherwise died. Since the
 technological resources are not unlimited prioritization
 becomes a functional imperative, bringing in the
 concepts of worth and utility. In other words, the
 questions like whose life is more precious and worthy of
 protection have to be answered. This is a formidable
 task, attracting multiple and diverse perspectives, moral
 as well as strategic, leading to heterogeneous
 approaches and despite agreement on fundamental
 issue of value of life the decisions may seem to be at
 variance. A fair and objective decision in such
 circumstances may be a difficult exercise and any
 liberalization is fraught with following apprehensions: 65 See Footnote 63. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 83 of 112 assault. For any of these wrongs, the victim may be able to

 obtain damages. 112) When it comes to medical treatment, even there the general

 common law principle is that any medical treatment constitutes a

 trespass to the person which must be justified, by reference

 either to the patient’s consent or to the necessity of saving life in

 circumstances where the patient is unable to decide whether or

 not to consent. 113) Rights with regard to medical treatment fall essentially into two

 categories: first, rights to receive or be free of treatment as

 needed or desired, and not to be subjected involuntarily to

 experimentation which, irrespective of any benefit which the

 subjects may derive, are intended to advance scientific

 knowledge and benefit people other than the subject in the long

 term; secondly, rights connected incidentally with the provision of

 medical services, such as rights to be told the truth by one’s

 doctor. 114) Having regard to the aforesaid right of the patients in common

 law, coupled with the dignity and privacy rights, it can be said that

 passive euthanasia, under those circumstances where patient is

 in PVS and he is terminally ill, where the condition is irreversible Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 84 of 112 or where he is braindead, can be permitted. On the aforesaid

 reasoning, I am in agreement with the opinion of the other

 members of this Bench in approving the judgment in Aruna

 Ramachandra Shanbaug. (D) Economics of Euthanasia 115) This is yet another reason for arriving at the same conclusion. 116) When we consider the matter of euthanasia in the context of

 economic principles, it becomes another reason to support the

 aforesaid conclusion. This aspect can be dealt with in two ways. 117) First, because of rampant poverty where majority of the persons

 are not able to afford health services, should they be forced to

 spend on medical treatment beyond their means and in the

 process compelling them to sell their house property, household

 things and other assets which may be means of livelihood

 Secondly, when there are limited medical facilities available,

 should a major part thereof be consumed on those patients who

 have no chances of recovery? In Economic & Political Weekly

 dated February 10, 2018, it is reported: 66 Healthcare rationing: can we afford to ignore euthanasia? Health Services Management
 Research 1997; 10; 32-41 Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 86 of 112 benefits to society and can help to determine if euthanasia is of

 benefit to the majority in society. According to him, the net benefit

 to the individual (from ethical considerations) can be compared

 with the net benefit to society (from economics), and that both

 can be included in an overall decision rule for whether or not to

 legalise euthanasia. Ward draws on the health economics

 literature (for example, Mooney67) to suggest that a positive

 answer to this question ins implicit in many health-rationing

 decisions and is applicable to the euthanasia decision. He also

 asserts that ‘introducing an economic perspective is not

 incompatible with ethical issues’. 119) No doubt, protagonists of ethical aspects of euthanasia oppose

 the aforesaid view. According to them, euthanasia also involves

 the specific act of a medical professional killing a patient and the

 ethical status of this act has implications both for individuals and

 for society. Their counter argument, therefore, is that to be able

 to make an economic assessment of euthanasia, we would have

 to be able to evaluate the cost and benefits of this act of killing.

 However, even they accept that if the act of killing by euthanasia

 is ethically acceptable in some circumstances, it would be

 appropriate to consider the net benefits of the act to the individual

67 Mooney, G. The Valuation of Human Life. London: Macmillan Press, 1977 Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 87 of 112 patient along with the wider economic considerations 68. In the

 instant case, we have come to the conclusion that under certain

 circumstances, i.e. when the patient is in PVS or braindead/

 clinically dead, at least passive euthanasia would even be

 ethically acceptable, on the application of doctrine of dignity. In

 such a situation, the economic considerations would strengthen

 the aforesaid conclusion. 120) At times, for deciding legal issues, economic analysis of law

 assumes importance69. It is advocated that one of the main

 reasons which should prompt philosophers of law to undertake

 economic analysis seriously is that the most basic notion in the

 analysis – efficiency or Pareto optimality 70 - was originally

 introduced to help solve a serious objection to widely held moral

 theory, utilitarian. Utilitarians hold that the principle of utility is the

 criterion of the right conduct. If one has to evaluate policies in

 virtue of their effect on individual welfare or utility, one norm of

 utility has to be compared with that of another. We may clarify

 that this economic principle has been applied in a limited sense

 only as a supporting consideration with the aim to promote

68 See – Economics and Euthanasia by Stephen Heasell, Department of Economics and Politics,
 Nottingham Trent University, and David Paton, Nottingham University Business School.

69 This aspect is discussed in some detail by this Court in Shivashakti Sugars Ltd. v. Shree
 Renuka Sugar Limited and Other , (2017) 7 SCC 729
70 Jeffrie G. Murphy & Jules L. Coleman: Philosophy of Law (An introduction to Jurisprudence) Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 88 of 112 efficiency. 121) If we understand correctly the logic behind opposition to

 euthanasia, particularly, passive euthanasia, it proceeds on the

 basis that third person should not have right to take a decision

 about one’s life and, more importantly, it is difficult to ascertain, at

 a particular stage, as to whether time has come to take such a

 decision, namely, withdraw the medical support. Insofar as latter

 aspect is concerned, we feel that in Aruna Ramachandra

 Shanbaug, this Court has taken due care in prescribing the

 circumstances, namely, when the person is in a Permanent

 Vegetative State (PVS) with no reversible chance or when he is

 ‘brain dead’ or ‘clinically dead’. Insofar as first aspect is

 concerned, the subject matter of the present writ petition takes

 care of that. THE SECOND ISSUE 122) With this, we advert to the second question formulated above,

 which is as under: determination requires that respect must be given to
 the wishes of the patient, so that if an adult patient of
 sound mind refuses, however unreasonably, to
 consent to treatment or care by which his life would or
 might be prolonged, the doctors responsible for his
 care must give effect to his wishes, even though they
 do not consider it to be in his best interests to do so
 [see Schloendorff v. Society of New York Hospital [211
 NY 125 : 105 NE 92 (1914)] , NE at p. 93, per
 Cardozo, J.; S. v. McC . (Orse S.) and M (D.S.
 Intervener) [1972 AC 24 (HL)], W v. W; AC at p. 43,
 per Lord Reid; and Sidaway v. Board of Governors of
 the Bethlem Royal Hospital [1985 AC 871 : (1985) 2
 WLR 480 : (1985) 1 All ER 643 (HL)] AC at p. 882, per
 Lord Scarman]. To this extent, the principle of the
 sanctity of human life must yield to the principle of
 self-determination [see (Court of Appeal transcript in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 91 of 112 the present case, at p. 38 F per Hoffmann, L.J.)], and,
 for present purposes perhaps more important, the
 doctor's duty to act in the best interests of his patient
 must likewise be qualified. On this basis, it has been
 held that a patient of sound mind may, if properly
 informed, require that life support should be
 discontinued: see Nancy B. v. Hotel Dieu de Quebec
 [(1992) 86 DLR (4th) 385 (Que SC)] . Moreover the
 same principle applies where the patient's refusal to
 give his consent has been expressed at an earlier
 date, before he became unconscious or otherwise
 incapable of communicating it; though in such
 circumstances especial care may be necessary to
 ensure that the prior refusal of consent is still properly
 to be regarded as applicable in the circumstances
 which have subsequently occurred [see e.g. T. (Adult: This category of cases may fall within the ambit of the
 “right to die” with dignity as a part of right to live with
 dignity, when death due to termination of natural life is
 certain and imminent and the process of natural death
 has commenced. These are not cases of extinguishing
 life but only of accelerating conclusion of the process
 of natural death which has already commenced. The
 debate even in such cases to permit physician-
 assisted termination of life is inconclusive. It is
 sufficient to reiterate that the argument to support the
 view of permitting termination of life in such cases to
 reduce the period of suffering during the process of
 certain natural death is not available to interpret Article
 21 to include therein the right to curtail the natural
 span of life.” 126) In fact, the Law Commission of India was asked to consider on

 the feasibility of making legislation on euthanasia, taking into

 account the earlier 196 th Report of the Law Commission as well

 as the judgment of this Court in Aruna Ramachandra

 Shanbaug. In August, 2012, Law Commission came out with a

 detailed 241st Report on the issue of passive euthanasia, wherein

 it approved the concept of Right to Self Determination also. The

 Law Commission made some important observations in its report Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 93 of 112 such as: ‘Patient’ has been defined as a person suffering from
 terminal illness. “Terminal illness” has also been
 defined under Section 2 (m) . The definition of a
 ‘competent patient’ has to be understood by the
 definition of ‘incompetent patient’. ‘Incompetent Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 94 of 112 patient’ means a patient who is a minor or a person of
 unsound mind or a patient who is unable to weigh,
 understand or retain the relevant information about his
 or her medical treatment or unable to make an
 ‘informed decision’ because of impairment of or a
 disturbance in the functioning of the mind or brain or a
 person who is unable to communicate the informed
 decision regarding medical treatment through speech,
 sign or language or any other mode (vide Section 2(d) of the Bill, 2006). “Medical Treatment” has been
 defined in Section 2(i) as treatment intended to
 sustain, restore or replace vital functions which, when
 applied to a patient suffering from terminal illness,
 would serve only to prolong the process of dying and
 includes life sustaining treatment by way of surgical
 operation or the administration of medicine etc. and
 use of mechanical or artificial means such as
 ventilation, artificial nutrition and cardio resuscitation.
 The expressions “best interests” and “informed
 decision” have also been defined in the proposed Bill.
 “Best Interests”, according to Section 2(b) , includes
 the best interests of both on incompetent patient and
 competent patient who has not taken an informed
 decision and it ought not to be limited to medical
 interests of the patient but includes ethical, social,
 emotional and other welfare considerations. The term
 ‘informed decision’ means, as per Section 2 (e) “the
 decision as to continuance or withholding or
 withdrawing medical treatment taken by a patient who
 is competent and who is, or has been informed about
 – (i) the nature of his or her illness, (ii) any alternative
 form of treatment that may be available, (iii) the
 consequences of those forms of treatment, and (iv)
 the consequences of remaining untreated. xxx xxx xxx

 5.8 The Law Commission of India clarified that where
 a competent patient takes an ‘informed decision’ to
 allow nature to have its course, the patient is, under
 common law, not guilty of attempt to commit suicide
 (u/s 309 IPC ) nor is the doctor who omits to give
 treatment, guilty of abetting suicide (u/s 306 IPC ) or of
 culpable homicide (u/s 299 read with Section 304 of
 IPC). xxx xxx xxx Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 95 of 112 7.2 In this context, two cardinal principles of medical
 ethics are stated to be patient autonomy and
 beneficence (vide P. 482 of SCC in Aruna’s case): The surrogate is expected to represent what the
 patient may have decided had she/she been
 competent, or to act in the patient’s best interest. 2. Beneficence is acting in what (or judged to be) in
 the patient’s best interest. Acting in the patient’s best
 interest means following a course of action that is best
 for the patient, and is not in influenced by personal
 convictions, motives or other considerations…….. xxx xxx xxx

 11.2 The discussion in the foregoing paras and the
 weighty opinions of the Judges of highest courts as
 well as the considered views of Law Commission (in
 196th report) would furnish an answer to the above
 question in clearest terms to the effect that legally and
 constitutionally, the patient (competent) has a right to
 refuse medical treatment resulting in temporary
 prolongation of life. The patient’s life is at the brink of
 extinction. There is no slightest hope of recovery. The
 patient undergoing terrible suffering and worst mental
 agony does not want his life to be prolonged by
 artificial means. She/he would not like to spend for his
 treatment which is practically worthless. She/he cares
 for his bodily integrity rather than bodily suffering.
 She/he would not like to live like a ‘cabbage’ in an
 intensive care unit for some days or months till the
 inevitable death occurs. He would like to have the right
 of privacy protected which implies protection from
 interference and bodily invasion. As observed in Gian
 Kaur’s case, the natural process of his death has
 already commenced and he would like to die with
 peace and dignity. No law can inhibit him from opting Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 96 of 112 such course. This is not a situation comparable to
 suicide, keeping aside the view point in favour of
 decriminalizing the attempt to suicide. The doctor or
 relatives cannot compel him to have invasive medical
 treatment by artificial means or treatment. If there is
 forced medical intervention on his body, according to
 the decisions cited supra (especially the remarks of
 Lord Brown Wilkinson in Airdale’s case), the doctor /
 surgeon is guilty of ‘assault’ or ‘battery’. In the words
 of Justice Cardozo, “every human being of adult years
 and sound mind has a right to determine what shall be
 done with his own body and a surgeon who performs
 an operation without his patient’s consent commits an
 assault for which he is liable in damages.” Lord Goff in
 Airedale’s case places the right to self determination
 on a high pedestal. He observed that “in the
 circumstances such as this, the principle of sanctity of
 human life must yield to the principle of self
 determination and the doctor’s duty to act in the best
 interests of the patient must likewise be qualified by
 the wish of the patient.” The following observations of
 Lord Goff deserve particular notice: Further, a competent patient (who is terminally ill)
 refusing medical treatment shall not be deemed to
 be guilty of any offence under any law. 14.6 The procedure for preparation of panels has
 been set out broadly in conformity with the
 recommendations of 17th Law Commission. Advance medical directive given by the patient Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 98 of 112 before his illness is not valid. 14.7 Notwithstanding that medical treatment has
 been withheld or withdrawn in accordance with the
 provisions referred to above, palliative care can be
 extended to the competent and incompetent
 patients. The Governments have to devise schemes
 for palliative care at affordable cost to terminally ill
 patients undergoing intractable suffering.

 14.8 The Medical Council of India is required issue
 guidelines in the matter of withholding or
 withdrawing of medical treatment to competent or
 incompetent patients suffering from terminal
 illness. 14.9 Accordingly, the Medical Treatment of
 Terminally Ill Patients (Protection of Patients and
 Medical Practitioners) Bill, 2006, drafted by the 17th
 Law Commission in the 196th Report has been
 modified and the revised Bill is practically an
 amalgam of the earlier recommendations of the
 Law Commission and the views / directions of the
 Supreme Court in Aruna Ramachandra case. The
 revised Bill is at Annexure I.” 128) I am also of the view that such an advance authority is akin to

 well recognised common law right to refuse medical treatment

 (See: Re T (Adult: Refusal of Medical Treatment71), Re B

 (Adult: Refusal of Medical Treatment72), Crazan v. Director ,

 Missouri Department of Health73, Malette v. Shulam74. 129) In a recent landmark judgment of the nine Judge Constitution

 Bench in the case of K.S. Puttaswamy authoritatively held that

 right to life enshrined in Article 21 includes right to privacy. One

71 (1992) 4 All ER 649
72 (2002) 2 All ER 449
73 497 U.S. 261 (1990)
74 67 DLR (4th) 321 Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 99 of 112 of the facet of this right acknowledged is an individual’s decision

 to refuse life prolonging medical treatment or terminate his life.

 Justice Chelameswar in his separate opinion has described the

 same in the following manner: sustaining treatment is disproportionate. It does not constitute a

 fair, just or reasonable procedure, which is a requirement for the

 imposition of a restriction on the right to life (in this case,

 expressed as the right to die with dignity) under Article 21. 131) At this juncture, we may again reiterate that on the one hand

 autonomy of an individual gives him right to choose his destiny

 and, therefore, he may decide before hand, in the form of

 advance directive, at what stage of his physical condition he

 would not like to have medical treatment, and on the other hand,

 there are dangers of misuse thereof as well. David Feldman

 explained the same in the following manner: Instead, attempt can be made to provide safeguards for exercise

 of such advance directive. For example, Section 5 of the Mental

 Healthcare Act, 2017 recognises the validity of advance directives

 for the treatment of mental illness under the Mental Healthcare

 Act, 2017 . The draft Mental Healthcare Regulations have

 recently been made available for public comment by the Ministry

 of Health and Family Welfare. These prescribe the form in which

 advance directives may be made. Part II, Chapter 1 of the

 Regulations allow a Nominated Representative to be named in

 the Advance Directive. An advance directive is to be in writing

 and signed by two witnesses attesting to the fact that the

 Directive was executed in their presence. A Directive to be

 registered with the Mental Health Review Board. It may be

 changed as many times as desired by the person executing it and

 the treating mental health professional must be informed of such

 change. Similarly, Section 3 of the Transplantation of Human Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 104 of 112 Organs and Tissues Act, 1994 allows persons to authorise the

 removal of human organs and tissues from their body before

 death. The form in which this authorisation is to be made is

 prescribed in Form 7 of the Transplantation of Human Organs

 and Tissues Rules, 2014. This is also to be in writing and in the

 presence of two witnesses. A copy of the pledge is to be retained

 at the institution where the pledge is made and the person

 making the pledge has the option to withdraw the pledge at any

 time. Where such authorisation had been made, the person

 lawfully in charge of the donor’s body after his death is required

 to grant the concerned medical practitioner all reasonable

 facilities for the removal of human organs or tissues, unless such

 person has reason to believe that the donor had substantially

 revoked his authority. 133) Mr. Datar, learned counsel appearing for the intervenor, has also

 brought to our notice various safeguards for advance directive

 provided in other jurisdiction in many ways i.e. by prescribing the

 form that the directive must take, by specifying who may act as

 witnesses, by allowing the possibility of amendment and by

 allowing the validity of the directive to be challenged. Some of

 these examples are as follows: Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 105 of 112 (b) Section 25 of the Mental Capacity Act, an advance decision

 to refuse life-sustaining treatment must be in writing. It must be

 signed by the patient or someone on his behalf and signed by a

 witness. It must also include a written statement by the patient

 that the decision will apply to the specific treatment even if the

 patient’s life is at risk. Under Article 7: 450 of the Dutch Civil

 Code, an advance directive should be in written form, dated and Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 106 of 112 signed to be valid. Section 110Q of the Western Australia

 Guardianship and Administration Act, 1990 requires advance

 directives to be signed in the presence of two witnesses, who

 must both be at least 18 years of age and one of whom must be a

 person authorised to witness legal documents under the relevant

 law. Section 15 of the South Australia Advance Directives Act,

 2013 sets out requirements for ‘suitable’ witnesses under the Act.

 A person may not be a witness if she is appointed as a substitute

 decision-maker under the advance directive, has a direct or

 indirect interest in the estate of the person executing the advance

 directive or is a health practitioner responsible for the health care

 of the person executing the advance directive. Similar

 disqualifications for witnesses are prescribed in the Oregon Death

 with Dignity Act, 2002 when a person makes a written request for

 medication for the purpose of ending her life in a humane and

 dignified manner. (c) Under Section 24(3) of the UK Mental Capacity Act, 2005, a

 person may alter or withdraw an advance decision at any time he

 has the capacity to do so. Under Section 25(2)(c) , an advance

 decision will not be applicable if a person has done anything else

 clearly inconsistent with the advance decision. Under Section

 3 .06 of the Oregon Death with Dignity Act, 2005, a person may Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 107 of 112 rescind her written request for medicating at any time regardless

 of her mental state. To allow for a change of mind, Section 3 .08

 also requires at least 15 days to lapse between the patient’s initial

 oral request and the writing of a prescription, while a minimum of

 48 hours must elapse between the patient’s written request and

 the writing of a prescription. Under Section 110S of the Western

 Australia Guardianship and Administration Act, 1990, a treatment

 decision in an advance directive does not operate if

 circumstances exist or have arisen that the maker of that directive

 could not reasonably have anticipated at the time of making the

 directive and that would have caused a reasonable person in the

 maker’s position to have changed her mind about the directive.

 While determining whether such circumstances have arisen, the

 age of the maker and the period that has elapsed between the

 time at which the directive was made and the circumstances that

 have arisen are factors that must be taken into account while

 determining the validity of the directive. (d) Section 26(4) of the UK Mental Capacity Act permits courts to

 make a declaration as to whether the advance decision exists, is

 valid, and applicable to a treatment. Under Article 373 of the

 Swiss Civil Code, ‘any person closely related to the patient can

 contact the adult protection authority in writing and claim that... Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 108 of 112 the patient decree is not based on the patient’s free will.’ Under

 Section 110V, 110W, 110X, 110Y and 110Z of the Western

 Australia Guardianship and Administration Act, 1990, any person

 who has a ‘proper interest’ in the matter, in the view of the State

 Administrative Tribunal, may apply to it for a declaration with

 respect to the validity of an advance directive. It can also

 interpret the terms of the directive, give directions to give effect to

 it or revoke a treatment decision in the directive. 134) Mr. Datar has suggested that this Court should frame the

 guidelines to cover the following aspects: .....................................J.
 (A.K. SIKRI)

NEW DELHI; MARCH 09, 2018. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005 Page 112 of 112 PART A

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION

 WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO. 215 OF 2005

COMMON CAUSE (A REGD. SOCIETY) .... PETITIONER

 VERSUS

UNION OF INDIA & ANR ..... RESPONDENTS

 J U D G M E N T

Dr D Y CHANDRACHUD, J

A Introduction: On Death and Dying

1 Life and death are inseparable. Every moment of our lives, our bodies

are involved in a process of continuous change. Millions of our cells perish as

nature regenerates new ones. Our minds are rarely, if ever, constant. Our

thoughts are fleeting. In a physiological sense, our being is in a state of flux,

change being the norm. Life is not disconnected from death. To be, is to die. 1 PART A

From a philosophical perspective, there is no antithesis between life and

death. Both constitute essential elements in the inexorable cycle of existence.

2 Living in the present, we are conscious of our own mortality. Biblical

teaching reminds us that: 3 The quest of each individual to find meaning in life reflects a human

urge to find fulfilment in the pursuit of happiness. The pursuit of happiness is

nurtured in creative pleasures and is grounded in things as fundamental as

the freedom to think, express and believe, the right to self-determination, the

liberty to follow a distinctive way of life, the ability to decide whether or not to

conform and the expression of identity. 4 Human beings through the ages have been concerned with death as

much as with dying. Death represents a culmination, the terminal point of life.

Dying is part of a process: the process of living, which eventually leads to

death. The fear of death is a universal feature of human existence. The fear is

associated as much with the uncertainty of when death will occur as it is, with

the suffering that may precede it. The fear lies in the uncertainty of when an 2 PART A

event which is certain will occur. Our fears are enhanced by the experience of

dying that we share with those who were a part of our lives but have gone

before us. As human beings, we are concerned with the dignity of our

existence. The process through which we die bears upon that dignity. A

dignified existence requires that the days of our lives which lead up to death

must be lived in dignity; that the stages through which life leads to death

should be free of suffering; and that the integrity of our minds and bodies

should survive so long as life subsists. The fear of an uncertain future

confronts these aspirations of a dignified life. The fear is compounded by the

fact that as we age, we lose control over our faculties and over our ability to

take decisions on the course of our future. Our autonomy as persons is

founded on the ability to decide: on what to wear and how to dress, on what to

eat and on the food that we share, on when to speak and what we speak, on

the right to believe or not to believe, on whom to love and whom to partner,

and to freely decide on innumerable matters of consequence and detail to our

daily lives. Ageing leaves individuals with a dilution of the ability to decide. The

fear of that loss is ultimately, a fear of the loss of freedom. Freedom and

liberty are the core of a meaningful life. Ageing brings dependency and a loss

of control over our ability to shape what we wish to happen to us.

5 The progression of life takes its toll on the human body and the mind.

As we age, simple tasks become less simple and what seemed to be a matter

of course may become less so. Human beings then turn ever more to the 3 PART A

substance that matters. As events, relationships, associations and even

memories fall by the way, we are left with a lonesome remnant of the person,

which defines the core of our existence. The quest of finding meaning in that

core is often a matter of confronting our fears and tragedies.

6 The fear of pain and suffering is perhaps even greater than the

apprehension of death. To be free of suffering is a liberation in itself. Hence

the liberty to decide how one should be treated when the end of life is near is

part of an essential attribute of personhood. Our expectations define how we

should be treated in progressing towards the end, even when an individual is

left with little or no comprehension near the end of life.

7 Dilemmas relating to the end of life have been on the frontline of debate

across the world in recent decades. The debate has presented “a complex

maze of dilemmas for all - the doctor, the lawyer, the patient and the patient’s

relatives”1 and straddles issues of religion, morality, bio-medical ethics and

constitutional law. It has involved “issues ranging from the nature and

meaning of human life itself, to the most fundamental principles on which our

societies are and should be based”2. 1 “The Dilemmas of Euthanasia”, Bio-Science (August 1973), Vol. 23, No. 8, at page 459
2 Margaret A. Somerville, “Legalising euthanasia: why now?”, The Australian Quarterly (Spring 1996), Vol. 68, No. 3, at page 1 4 PART A

8 There is an “ongoing struggle between technology and the law”; as

“medical technology has become more advanced, it has achieved the capability

both to prolong human life beyond its natural endpoint and to better define

when that endpoint will occur”.3 Medical science has contributed in a significant

way to enhancing the expectancy of life. Diseases once considered fatal have

now become treatable. Medical research has redefined our knowledge of

ailments – common and uncommon; of their links with bodily functions and the

complex relationship between mental processes and physical well-being.

Science which affects the length of life also has an impact on the quality of the

years in our lives. Prolonging life should, but does not necessarily result in, a

reduction of suffering. Suffering has a bearing on the quality of life. The quality

of life depends upon the life in our years. Adding to the length of life must bear

a functional nexus with the quality of life. Human suffering must have

significance not only in terms of how long we live but also in terms of how well

we live. 9 Modern medicine has advanced human knowledge about the body and

the mind. Equipped with the tools of knowledge, science has shown the ability

to reduce human suffering. Science has also shown an ability to prolong life.

Yet in its ability to extend life, medical science has an impact on the quality of

life, as on the nature and extent of human suffering. Medical interventions

come with costs, both emotional and financial. The ability of science to

3Christopher N. Manning, “Live And Let Die: Physician-Assisted Suicide And The Right To Die”, Harvard Journal
of Law and Technology (1996), Vol. 9, No. 2, at page 513 5 PART A

prolong life must face an equally important concern over its ability to impact on

the quality of life. While medical science has extended longevity, it has come

with associated costs of medical care and the agony which accompanies an

artificially sustained life. Medical ethics must grapple with the need to bring

about a balance between the ability of science to extend life with the need for

science to recognise that all knowledge must enhance a meaningful

existence. 10 There is “no consensus as to the rights and wrongs of helping someone

to die”4, as the legal status of euthanasia has been subjected to social, ethical

and moral norms that have been handed down to us. Decisions regarding the

end of life can be ethically more problematic when the individual is no longer

mentally competent to make his or her own decisions.5 The existential and

metaphysical issues involved in this debate, include the fear of the unknown,

the uncertainty of when death will occur, the scarcity of health care, freedom

or coercion in choosing to receive or not to receive medical treatment, the

dignity and degradation of ageing and being able to care for oneself

independently.6

11 Does the law have a role in these complex questions of life and death?

If it does, what are the boundaries which judges – as interpreters of law –
4 Alan Norrie, “Legal Form and Moral Judgement: Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide” in R.A. Duff, et al (ed), The
 Structures of the Criminal Law (Oxford University Press, 2011), at page 134
5 Elizabeth Wicks, The Right to Life and Conflicting Interests (Oxford University Press, 2010), at page 199
6 Elizabeth M. Andal Sorrentino, “The Right To Die?”, Journal of Health and Human Resources Administration (Spring,1986), Vol. 8, No. 4, page 361 6 PART A

must observe while confronting these issues of living and dying? The law,

particularly constitutional law, intervenes when matters governing freedom,

liberty, dignity and individual autonomy are at stake. To deny a role for

constitutional law would be to ignore our own jurisprudence and the primary

role which it assigns to freedom and dignity. This case presents itself before

the Court as a canvass bearing on the web of life: on the relationship between

science, medicine and ethics and the constitutional values of individual dignity

and autonomy. Among the issues which we confront are: 12 This Court has to consider euthanasia and its impact “not only at an

individual level”, but also at the “institutional, governmental and societal

levels”.7 The impact has to be analyzed not only in the context of the present

era, but has to be contemplated for the future as well. The judge is not a

soothsayer. Nor does the law have predictive tools at its command which can

approximate those available to a scientist. Constitutional principle must have

an abiding value. It can have that value if it is firmly grounded in the distilled

experience of the past, is flexible to accommodate the concerns of the present

and allows room for the unforeseeable future. The possibility of the abuse of

euthanasia and the effect that legalising euthanasia would have on intangible

societal fabrics and institutions is of utmost concern.

13 Contemporary writing on the subject reminds us about how serious

these issues are and of how often they pose real dilemmas in medicine. They

are poignantly brought out by Dr Atul Gawande in his acclaimed book, “Being

Mortal”: When we forget that, the suffering we inflict can be barbaric.
 When we remember it, the good we do can be breathtaking."8

He reminds us of how much people value living with dignity over merely living

longer: 14 Dr Henry Marsh, a neurosurgeon in the UK has significantly titled his

provocative memoir “Admissions” (2017). Speaking of euthanasia, he

observes: 15 The central aspect of the case is the significance which the Constitution

attaches to the ability of every individual in society to make personal choices

on decisions which affect our lives. Randy Pausch, a Professor at Stanford

had this to say in a book titled “The Last Lecture” (2008),11 a discourse

delivered by him in the shadow of a terminal illness. “We cannot change the cards we are dealt, just how we play
 the hand”. We may not be masters of our destiny. Nor can we control what life has in

store. What we can determine is how we respond to our trials and tribulations. raised in this case need to be considered by a Constitution Bench. The

referring order notes that the case involves “social, legal, medical and

constitutional” perspectives which should be considered by five judges. At the

heart of the proceeding, is a declaration which Common Cause seeks that the

right to die with dignity is a fundamental right which arises from the right to live

10 Henry Marsh, Admissions: A Life in Brain Surgery, (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 2017), at page 265-266
11 Randy Pausch and Jeffrey Zaslow, The Last Lecture, (Hodder & Stoughton, 2008), at page 17 10 PART B

with dignity. Article 21 of the Constitution is a guarantee against the

deprivation of life or personal liberty except according to the procedure

established by law. As our law has evolved, the right against the violation of

life and personal liberty has acquired much more than a formal content. It can

have true meaning, if only it includes the right to live with dignity. It is on this

premise that the court is urged to hold that death with dignity is an essential

part of a life of dignity. A direction is sought to the Union Government to adopt

suitable procedures to ensure that persons with “deteriorated health” or those

who are terminally ill should be able to execute a document in the form of “a

living will and attorney authorization” which can be presented to a hospital for

appropriate action if the person who has made it, is hospitalized with a serious

illness which may cause the end of life. The petitioner also seeks, in the

alternative, that this Court should issue guidelines and appoint an expert

committee consisting of doctors, social scientists and lawyers who will govern

the making of ‘living wills’. 17 Individuals who suffer from chronic disease or approach the end of the

span of natural life often lapse into terminal illness or a permanent vegetative

state. When a medical emergency leads to hospitalization, individuals in that

condition are sometimes deprived of their right to refuse unwanted medical

treatment such as feeding through hydration tubes or being kept on a

ventilator and other life support equipment. Life is prolonged artificially

resulting in human suffering. The petition is founded on the right of each 11 PART B

individual to make an informed choice. Documenting a wish in advance, not to

be subjected to artificial means of prolonging life, should the individual not be

in a position later to comprehend or decline treatment, is a manifestation of

individual choice and autonomy. The process of ageing is marked by a sense

of helplessness. Human faculties decline as we grow older. Social aspects of

ageing, such as the loss of friendships and associations combine with the

personal and intimate to enhance a sense of isolation. The boundaries and

even the limits of constitutional law will be tested as the needs of the ageing

and their concerns confront issues of ethics, morality and of dignity in death.

18 In support of its contention, the petitioner relies upon two decisions: a

decision rendered in 1996 by a Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur v State of

Punjab12 (“Gian Kaur”) and a decision of 2011 rendered by two judges in

Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug v Union of India13 (“Aruna Shanbaug”).

The decision in Gian Kaur arose from a conviction for the abetment of

suicide. In an earlier decision rendered by two judges in 1994 - P Rathinam v

Union of India14 (“Rathinam”), penalising an attempt to commit suicide was

held to violate Article 21 on the foundation that the right to life includes the

right to die. The decision in Rathinam was held not to have laid down the

correct principle, in Gian Kaur. Hence the decision in Aruna Shanbaug noted

that Article 21 does not protect the right to die and an attempt to commit

suicide is a crime. However, in Aruna Shanbaug, the court held that since

12(1996) 2 SCC 648
13 (2011) 15 SCC 480
14 (1994) 3 SCC 394 12 PART B

Gian Kaur rules that the right to life includes living with human dignity, “in the

case of a dying person who is terminally ill or in a permanent vegetative state,

he may be permitted to terminate by a premature extinction of his life”, and

this would not be a crime. The Bench which decided Aruna Shanbaug was of

the view that Gian Kaur had “quoted with approval” the view of the House of

Lords in the UK in Airedale NHS Trust v Bland15 (“Airedale”).

19 When these judgments were placed before a Bench of three judges in

the present case, the court observed that there were “inherent

inconsistencies” in the judgment in Aruna Shanbaug. The referring order

accordingly opined that: and (v) Aruna Shanbaug is internally inconsistent and proceeds on a

 misconstruction of the decision in Gian Kaur. abetting the suicide of Kulwant Kaur and were held guilty of an offence under

Section 306 of the Penal Code. They were sentenced to six years’

imprisonment. The conviction was upheld by the High Court. The conviction

was assailed before this Court on the ground that Section 306 is

unconstitutional. It was argued that the constitutionality of Section 306 rested

on the two judge Bench decision in Rathinam, where Section 309 (penalising

the attempt to commit suicide) was held to be unconstitutional. While

Rathinam had rejected the challenge to the validity of Section 309 on the

ground that it was arbitrary (and violated Article 14 ), the provision was held to

be unconstitutional on the ground that it violated Article 21. The right to die

was found to inhere in the right to life, as a result of which Section 309 was

found to be invalid. The challenge in Gian Kaur was premised on the decision

in Rathinam: abetment of suicide by another (it was urged) is merely assisting

in the enforcement of the fundamental right under Article 21 and hence

Section 306 (like Section 309) would violate Article 21. 22 The Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur disapproved of the foundation of

Rathinam, holding that it was flawed. The Constitution Bench held thus: Rajeev Ranjan, et al, “(De-) Criminalization of Attempted Suicide in India: A Review”, Industrial Psychiatry
 Journal (2014), Vol. 23, issue 1, at page 4–9 18 PART C

created a “presumption of severe stress in cases of attempt to commit

suicide”. Section 115(1) provides thus: PART C

It may also be argued that the right to life and the right to die are not two

separate rights, but two sides of the same coin. The right to life is the right to

decide whether one will or will not continue living.18 If the right to life were only

a right to decide to continue living and did not also include a right to decide not

to continue living, then it would be a duty to live rather than a right to life. The

emphasis on life as a right and not as a duty or obligation has also been

expressed by several other legal scholars: 23 At this stage, it is also necessary to note that the decision in Gian Kaur

contained a passing reference to the judgment of the House of Lords in

Airedale which dealt with the withdrawal of artificial measures for the
18 D Benatar, “Should there be a legal right to die?” Current Oncology (2010), Vol. 17, Issue 5, at pages 2-3
19 Richard Delgado, “Euthanasia Reconsidered-The Choice of Death as an Aspect of the Right of Privacy”,
 Arizona Law Review (1975), Vol. 17, at page 474 20 PART D

continuance of life by a physician. In that context, it was held that a persistent

vegetative state was of no benefit to the patient and hence, the principle of

sanctity of life is not absolute. The Constitution Bench reproduced the

following extracts from the decision in Airedale: The Constitution Bench noted that the desirability of bringing about such a

change was considered (in Airedale) to be a function of the legislature by

enacting a law with safeguards, to prevent abuse. sexually assaulted in 1973. During the incident, she was strangled by the

attacker with a chain. The assault resulted in depriving the supply of oxygen to 21 PART D

her brain. Over a period of thirty seven years, she had not recovered from the

trauma and damage to the brain. She was forsaken by family and was cared

for over this period by the staff of the hospital. A petition under Article 32 was

instituted before this Court. The petitioner had authored a book on her saga

and instituted the proceedings claiming to be her “next friend”. The direction

which was sought was to stop feeding the patient and allow her to die a

natural death. Aruna Shanbaug was examined by a team of doctors

constituted by this Court who observed that while she was in a permanent

vegetative state, she was clearly not in coma.

25 A two Judge Bench of this Court held that Gian Kaur did not lay down a

final view on euthanasia: 26 The decision in Aruna Shanbaug distinguishes between active and

passive euthanasia. Active euthanasia is defined as the administration of a

lethal substance or force to kill a person, such as for instance, a lethal

injection given to a person suffering from agony in a terminal state of cancer. 22 PART D

Passive euthanasia is defined to mean the withholding or withdrawing of

medical treatment necessary for continuance of life. This may consist of

withholding antibiotics without which the patient may die or the removing of

the patient from artificial heart/lung support. According to the court, a

comparative context of the position prevailing in other countries would indicate

that: 27 The approval of the High Court was mandated to obviate the danger

that “this may be misused by some unscrupulous persons who wish to inherit

or otherwise grab the property of the patient”. Moreover, the court directed

that when an application is filed before the High Court, a committee of three

doctors (a neurologist, psychiatrist and physician) should be constituted, to

submit its opinion to enable the High Court to take a considered decision in

the case. On the facts of the case, the court held that the petitioner who had

visited Aruna Shanbaug only on a few occasions and had written a book on

her could not be recognised as her next friend. It was only the hospital staff

which had cared for her for long years which would be recognised. The

doctors and nursing staff had evinced an intent to allow her to live in their

care. 28 The decision in Aruna Shanbaug has proceeded on the hypothesis

that the Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur had “quoted with approval” the 25 PART D

decision of the House of Lords in Airedale. This hypothesis is incorrect. There

was only a passing reference to the decision of the House of Lords. In fact,

Gian Kaur prefaces its reference to Airedale with the following observation: 29 In an incisive analysis20, Ratna Kapur argues that while focussing on

euthanasia, discussions on Aruna Shanbaug have ignored other

considerations regarding gender, sexual assault, what constitutes “caring”, the

20 Ratna Kapur, “The Spectre of Aruna Shanbaug”, The Wire (18 May 2015), available at
 https://thewire.in/2005/the-spectre-of-aruna-shanbaug/ 26 PART D

right to bodily integrity and workplace protection. A central issue is, according

to Kapur, the “politics of caring”, - who can care, has the capacity to care and

who is less caring or less capable of caring. The Supreme Court did not

accept Pinki Virani as the “next friend” but awarded guardianship to KEM

hospital staff on the ground that they had “an emotional bonding and

attachment” to Aruna Shanbaug and were her “real family.” Kapur observes

that an emotional bond is not a valid criterion for a “next friend” and the

expression “real family” has dangerous implications for those who may not fall

within the normative remit of that phrase though they have a relationship with

the concerned person. She asks if the concept of “next friend” will cover only

“biological familial ties” and “render all other non-familial, non-marital, non-

heterosexual relationships as ineligible?” She argues that decisions about life

and death should “rest on the anvil of dignity, and dignity is not a family value,

or linked to some essential gendered trait. It is a societal value and hence

needs to be delinked from the traditional frameworks of family and gender

stereotypes.” Kapur expresses concerns about how the focus on “care”

seemed to obscure a deeper and more important consideration regarding

women’s safety in the workplace. The attack on Aruna Shanbaug in KEM

hospital was indicative of how the workplace was unsafe for women, and yet

the staff of the same hospital were given her guardianship. This is especially

concerning given the fact that the dean of the hospital at the time refused to

allow a complaint of sodomy to go forward as he was more concerned about

the reputation of the institution. Kapur laments the fact that Aruna’s case was 27 PART D

not used to bring out the reform that it should have - stating that it should

‘have been a leading case on women’s rights where “caring” extended beyond

the physical support for the individual who was harmed, to taking active steps

to improve the working conditions for women, including addressing pervasive

and systemic sex discrimination and sexism.’ Lastly, Kapur compels us to

think about the choices Aruna Shanbaug may have made - “Had Shanbaug

not been reduced to a PVS, would she have chosen to remain in KEM for her

treatment after the violent and brutal sexual assault that she experienced in

her work place? Or would she have chosen to be treated elsewhere? Would

she have sued the hospital for failing to provide her a safe working

environment?” Thus, Kapur questions the very basis of making the hospital

the guardians by questioning why the hospital did not “care” when it mattered

the most - when the case of sexual assault and sodomy should have been

pursued by the hospital on behalf of its employee. By denying Aruna

Shanbaug the right to bodily integrity in life and the right to self-determination

in death, and by viewing her life from all lenses but from her own, ranging from

the “carers”, to the medical and legal profession and their views on

euthanasia, she “became nothing more than a spectre in her own story.”

30 Aruna Shanbaug also presents another problem- one of inconsistency.

Gian Kaur is construed as laying down only that the right to life does not

include the right to die and that the decision in Rathinam was incorrect. In that

context, it has been noticed that the Constitution Bench observed that the 28 PART D

debate overseas even in physician assisted termination of life is inconclusive.

Aruna Shanbaug finds, on the one hand, that “no final view was expressed”

in Gian Kaur beyond stating that the right to life does not include the right to

die. Yet, on the other hand, having inferred the absence of a final view on

euthanasia in Gian Kaur, that decision is subsequently construed as having

allowed the termination of life by a premature extinction in the case of a “dying

person who is terminally ill or in a permanent vegetative state”. Both lines of

reasoning cannot survive together. 31 The procedure which was followed by this Court in Aruna Shanbaug of

arranging for a screening of a CD submitted by the team of doctors pertaining

to her examination in a live court proceeding open to the public has been

criticised as being fundamentally violative of privacy. What transpired in the

court is set out in the following observations from the decision: 32 Aruna Shanbaug rests on the distinction between an act and an

omission. The court seems to accept that the withdrawal of life support or a

decision not to provide artificial support to prolong life is an omission. In the

view of the court, an omission is what is “not done”. On the other hand, what is

actively done to end life is held to stand on a separate foundation. At this

stage, it would be necessary to note that the validity of the distinction between

what is passive and what is active has been the subject of a considerable

degree of debate. This would be dealt with in a subsequent part of this

judgment. 33 The issue before the Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur related to the

constitutionality of Section 306 of the Penal Code which penalises the

abetment of suicide. The challenge proceeded on the foundation that

penalising an attempt to commit suicide had been held to be unconstitutional

since the right to live included the right to die. The Constitution Bench

emphasised the value ascribed to the sanctity of life and came to the

conclusion that the right to die does not emanate from the right to life under Article 21. Having held that the right to die is “inherently inconsistent” with the

right to life “as is death with life”, the Constitution Bench opined that the

debate on euthanasia was “of no assistance to determine the scope of Article

21” and to decide whether the right to life includes the right to die. The court

noted that the right to life embodies the right to live with human dignity which

postulates the existence of such a right “up to the end of natural life”. This, the 30 PART D

court observed included the right to lead a dignified life up to the point of death

and included a dignified procedure of death. Thus, in the context of the debate

on euthanasia, the Constitution Bench was careful in observing that the right

to a dignified life “may include” the right of an individual to die with dignity. A

premature termination of life of a person facing imminent death in a terminal

illness or in a permanent vegetative state was in the view of the court a

situation which “may fall” within the ambit of the right to die with dignity. The

debate on physician assisted termination of life was noted to be

“inconclusive”. The court observed that the argument to support the

termination of life in such cases to reduce the period of suffering during the

process of “certain natural death” was not available to interpret Article 21 as

embodying the right to curtail the natural span of life. These observations in

Gian Kaur would indicate that the Constitution Bench has not made a final or

conclusive determination on euthanasia. Indeed, the scope of the controversy

before the court did not directly involve that question. Aruna Shanbaug

evidently proceeds on a construction of the decision in Gian Kaur which does

not emerge from it. Aruna Shanbaug has inherent internal inconsistencies.

Hence, the controversy which has been referred to the Constitution Bench

would have to be resolved without regarding Aruna Shanbaug as having laid

down an authoritative principle of constitutional law. 31 PART E

E The distinction between the legality of active and passive euthanasia

34 In examining the legality of euthanasia, clarification of terminology is

essential. The discourse on euthanasia is rendered complex by the problems

of shifting and uncertain descriptions of key concepts. Central to the debate

are notions such as “involuntary”, “non-voluntary” and “voluntary”. Also

“active” and “passive” are used, particularly in combination with “voluntary”

euthanasia. In general, the following might be said: ·

 • involuntary euthanasia refers to the termination of life against the will of

 the person killed; • non-voluntary euthanasia refers to the termination of life without the

 consent or opposition of the person killed; ·

 • voluntary euthanasia refers to the termination of life at the request of

 the person killed; ·

 • active euthanasia refers to a positive contribution to the acceleration of

 death; • passive euthanasia refers to the omission of steps which might

 otherwise sustain life. What is relatively straightforward is that involuntary euthanasia is illegal and

amounts to murder. However, the boundaries between active and passive

euthanasia are blurred since it is quite possible to argue that an omission

amounts to a positive act. 32 PART E

35 The expression ‘passive’ has been used to denote the withdrawal or

withholding of medical treatment. Implicit in this definition is the assumption

that both the withdrawal of or withholding treatment stand on the same ethical

or moral platform. This assumption, as we shall see in a later part of this

section, is not free of logical difficulty. The voluntary or non-voluntary

character of the euthanasia is determined by the presence or absence of

consent. Consent postulates that the individual is in a mental condition which

enables her to choose and to decide on a course of action and convey this

decision. Its voluntary nature is premised on its consensual character.

Euthanasia becomes non-voluntary where the individual has lost those

faculties of mind which enable her to freely decide on the course of action or

lost the ability to communicate the chosen course of action.

36 The distinctions between active and passive euthanasia are based on

the manner in which death is brought about. They closely relate (in the words

of Hazel Biggs in a seminal work on the subject) to the understanding and

consequences of the legal concepts of act and omission.21

37 As early as 1975, American philosopher and medical ethicist James

Rachels offered a radical critique of a distinction that was widely accepted by

medical ethicists at that time, that passive euthanasia or “letting die” was

21 Hazel Biggs, “Euthanasia, Death with Dignity and the Law”, Hart Publishing (2001), at page 12 33 PART E

morally acceptable while active euthanasia or “killing” was not.22 Even though

his paper did not change the prevalence of this distinction at the time it was

published, it paved the way by providing credibility for arguments to legalise

assisted suicide in the 1990s. In what he calls the ‘Equivalence Thesis’,

Rachels states “there is no morally important difference between killing and

letting die; if one is permissible (or objectionable), then so is the other and to

the same degree.”23 He does not offer a view on whether the practice of

euthanasia is acceptable or not. His central thesis is that both active and

passive euthanasia are morally equivalent- either both are acceptable or both

are not. Reichenbach for instance, asks: Supposing all else is equal, can a

moral judgment about euthanasia be made on the basis of it being active or

passive alone?24. The ‘Equivalence thesis’ postulates that if a doctor lets a

patient die (commonly understood as passive euthanasia) for humane

reasons, he is in the same moral position as if he decided to kill the patient by

giving a lethal injection (commonly understood as active euthanasia) for

humane reasons. 38 The correctness of this precept may be questioned by pointing out that

there is a qualitative difference between a positive medical intervention (such

as a lethal injection) which terminates life and a decision to not put a patient

on artificial life support, which will not artificially prolong life. The former brings

22 James Rachels, “Active and Passive Euthanasia”, New England Journal of Medicine (January 9, 1975), at
 page 78-80
23 James Rachels, End of Life: Euthanasia and Morality (Oxford University Press, 1986)
24 Bruce R. Reichenbach, “Euthanasia and the Active-Passive Distinction”, Bioethics (January 1987), Volume 1,

 at pages 51–73 34 PART E

a premature extinction of life. The latter does not delay the end of life beyond

its natural end point. But, if the decision to proceed with euthanasia is the right

one based on compassion and the humanitarian impulse to reduce pain and

suffering, then the method used is not in itself important. Moreover, it is

argued that passive euthanasia often involves more suffering since simply

withholding treatment means that the patient may take longer to die and thus

suffer more. Passive euthanasia may become questionable where the

withholding or withdrawal of medical intervention may lead to a condition of

pain and suffering, often a lingering and cruel death. The avoidance of

suffering, which is the object and purpose of euthanasia, may hence not be

the result of passive euthanasia and the converse may result. Besides raising

troubling moral questions – especially where it is non-voluntary, it questions

the efficacy of passive euthanasia. Moreover, it raises a troubling issue of the

validity of the active-passive divide. 39 The moral and legal validity of the active-passive distinction based on

the exculpation of omissions has been criticised. One of the reasons for the

exculpation of omissions is based on the idea that our duty not to harm people

is generally stricter than our duty to help them.25 James Rachels offers a

compelling counter-argument to the argument that killing someone is a

violation of our duty not to do harm, whereas letting someone die is merely a

failure to help. He argues that our duty to help people is less stringent than the

25 James Rachels (Supra note 23), at pages 101-120 35 PART E

duty not to harm them only in cases where it would be very difficult to help

them or require a great amount of effort or sacrifice. However, when we think

of cases where it would be relatively simple to help someone and there would

be no great personal sacrifice required, the morally justifiable response would

be different. He provides a hypothetical example of a child drowning in a

bathtub, anyone standing next to the tub would have a strict moral duty to help

the child.26 Due to the equation between the child and the person standing

next to the bathtub (the proximity may be in terms of spatial distance or

relationship) the “alleged asymmetry” between the duty to help and the duty

not to do harm vanishes. A person standing next to bathtub would have no

defence to say that this was merely a failure to help and did not violate the

duty to do no harm. In cases of euthanasia since the patient is close at hand

and it is within the professional skills of the medical practitioner to keep him

alive, the alleged asymmetry has little relevance. The distinction is rendered

irrelevant even in light of the duty of care that doctors owe to their patients.

Against the background of the duty to care, the moral and legal status of not

saving a life due to failure to provide treatment, can be the same as actively

taking that life.27 A doctor who knowingly allows a patient who could be saved

to bleed to death might be accused of murder and medical negligence. The

nature of the doctor-patient relationship which is founded on the doctor’s duty

of care towards the patient necessitates that omissions on the doctor’s part

will also be penalised. When doctors take off life support, they can foresee
26 Ibid
27 Len Doyal and Lesley Doyal, “Why Active Euthanasia and Physician Assisted Suicide Should Be Legalised  If
 Death Is in a Patient’s Best Interest Then Death Constitutes a Moral Good”, British Medical Journal (2001), at
 pages 1079–1080. 36 PART E

that death will be the outcome even though the timing of the death cannot be

determined. Thus, what must be deemed to be morally and legally important

must not be the emotionally appealing distinction between omission and

commission but the justifiability or otherwise of the clinical outcome. Indeed,

the distinction between omission and commission may be of little value in

some healthcare settings.28

40 This distinction leads to the result that even though euthanasia is

grounded in compassion and to relieve the patient of suffering, only certain

types of deaths can be lawful. If active euthanasia amounts to “killing”, the

operation of criminal law can lead to medical practitioners being exposed to

the indignity of criminal prosecutions and punishments.29 While passive

euthanasia can appear to save the dignity of medical practitioners, it is

perhaps at the expense of the patient’s dignity.30

41 A recent article by Rohini Shukla in the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics

(2016) points out two major flaws in Aruna Shanbaug regarding the

distinction between active and passive euthanasia.31 First, it fails to prioritise

the interest of the patient and is preoccupied with the effect of euthanasia on

everyone but the patient, and second, that it does not distinguish between the

terms “withholding and withdrawing and uses them interchangeably.”

28 Ibid
29 Hazel Biggs (Supra note 21), at Page 162
30 Ibid
31 Rohini Shukla, “Passive Euthanasia in India: a critique”, Indian Journal of Medical Ethics (Jan-Mar 2016), at

 pages 35-38 37 PART E

Throughout the above judgment, the words “withholding” and “withdrawing”

are used interchangeably. However, the difference between the two is

relevant to the distinction between what is ‘active’ and ‘passive’ as act and

omission. Withholding life support implies that crucial medical intervention is

restrained or is not provided – an act of omission on the part of the doctor.

Withdrawing life support implies suspending medical intervention that was

already in use to sustain the patient’s life- an act of commission. If the basis of

distinction between active and passive euthanasia is that in passive

euthanasia the doctor only passively commits acts of omission, while in active

euthanasia the doctor commits acts of commission then withdrawing medical

treatment is an act of commission and therefore amounts to active euthanasia.

In both these cases, the doctor is aware that his/her commissions or

omissions will in all likelihood lead to the patient’s death. However, in passive

euthanasia death may not be the only consequence and the suffering that

passive euthanasia often entails such as suffocation to death or starvation till

death, raises the question of whether passive euthanasia, in such

circumstances, militates against the idea of death with dignity – the very basis

of legalising euthanasia.32 Shukla’s criticism needs careful attention since it

raises profound questions about the doctor-patient relationship and the

efficacy of the distinction in the context of death with dignity. If the divide

between active-passive is questioned, should both forms be disallowed or, in

32 Ibid 38 PART E

converse should both be allowed? More significantly, are both equally

amenable to judicially manageable standards?

Even with Aruna Shanbaug’s starting position that passive euthanasia is

permitted under Indian law until expressly prohibited, the Court did not

traverse the vast Indian legal framework to determine whether there was a

prohibition to this effect. Instead the court made an analogy (perhaps

incorrect) between a doctor conducting passive euthanasia and a person who

watches a building burning: 33 Aparna Chandra and Mrinal Satish, “Misadventures of the Supreme Court in Aruna Shanbaug v Union of India”,
 Law and other Things (Mar 13, 2011), available at http://lawandotherthings.com/2011/03/misadventures-of-
 supreme-court-in-aruna/ 40 PART E

and the extent to which it upholds the principle of prioritising the patient’s

autonomy and dignity over mere prolongation of life. Had the Court taken into

account these consequences of passive euthanasia for the patient, it would be

apparent that passive euthanasia is not a simple panacea for an individual

faced with end of life suffering. This brings us to the second and more crucial flaw, which was the unjustified

emphasis on doctor’s agency in administering different types of euthanasia

which led to ignoring the patient’s autonomy and suffering. Respecting patient

autonomy and reducing suffering are fundamental ethical values ascribed to

euthanasia. It is also the foremost principle of bioethics. 34 The effects of

euthanasia on everyone (particularly her caregivers) were given greater

importance than the patient’s own wishes and caregiver: 34 Roop Gurusahani and Raj Kumar Mani, “India: Not a country to die in”, Indian Journal of Medical Ethics (Jan- Mar 2016), at pages 30-35. 41 PART E

focusing on the dignity and personhood of the individual in a permanent

vegetative state. In doing so, the judgment subordinates the primary concern

of bio-ethics and constitutional law, which is preserving the dignity of human

life. 45 An article35 in the Oxford Medical Law Review notes that there are

strong grounds to believe that the active-passive distinction in Aruna

Shanbaug was not grounded so much in morality as in ‘reasons of policy’.

Even while there are pertinent questions regarding the moral validity of the

active-passive distinction, there appears to be a significant difference between

active and passive euthanasia when viewed from the lens of the patient’s

consent. Consent gives an individual the ability to choose whether or not to

accept the treatment that is offered. But consent does not confer on a patient

the right to demand that a particular form of treatment be administered, even

in the quest for death with dignity.36 Voluntary passive euthanasia, where

death results from selective non-treatment because consent is withheld, is

therefore legally permissible while voluntary active euthanasia is prohibited.

Moreover, passive euthanasia is conceived with a purpose of not prolonging

the life of the patient by artificial medical intervention. Both in the case of a

withdrawal of artificial support as well as in non-intervention, passive

euthanasia allows for life to ebb away and to end in the natural course. In

35 Sushila Rao (Supra note 16), at pages 646-656
36 Hazel Biggs (Supra note 21), at page 30 42 PART F

contrast, active euthanasia results in the consequence of shortening life by a

positive act of medical intervention. It is perhaps this distinction which

necessitates legislative authorisation for active euthanasia, as differentiated

from the passive. 46 The question of legality of these two forms of euthanasia has significant

consequences. Death when it is according to the wishes and in the caregiver

of the patient must be viewed as a moral good. The fact that active euthanasia

is an illegal act (absent legislative authorisation) also prevents many

professional and emotional carers from performing it even if they perceive it as

a compassionate and otherwise appropriate response in line with the patient’s

wishes and caregiver, thereby prolonging the patient’s suffering and indignity.

These complex issues cannot be addressed when active euthanasia is not

legalised and regulated. The meeting point between bio-ethics and law does

not lie on a straight course. to human life.37 The “sanctity of life” principle has historically been the single

most basic and normative concept in ethics and the law. 38 The phrase has

37 Elizabeth Wicks (Supra note 5), at page 29
38 Anne J. Davis, “Dilemmas in Practice: To Make Live or Let Die”, The American Journal of Nursing (March 1981), Vol. 81, No. 3, at page 582 43 PART F

emerged as a key principle in contemporary bioethics, especially in debates

about end-of-life issues.39

48 The traditional and standard view is that life is invaluable.40 It has

persisted as an idea in various cultures through the centuries. A sacred value

has been prioritized for human life. This “rhetoric of the value in human life”41

has been highlighted in various traditions.42 The protection of the right to life

derives from “the idea that all human life is of equal value”  the idea being

drawn from religion, philosophy and science.43

49 The principle or doctrine of the “sanctity of life”, sometimes also referred

to as the “inviolability of human life”44, is based on “overarching moral

considerations”, the first of which has been stated as: 50 Distinct from religious beliefs, the special value inherent in human life

has been recognised in secular ideas of natural law  “man as an end in
39 Heike Baranzke, ““Sanctity-of-Life”—A Bioethical Principle for a Right to Life?”, Ethic Theory Moral Practice
 (2012), Vol. 15, Issue 3, at page 295
40 Elizabeth Wicks (Supra note 5), at page 1
41 Ibid, at page 240
42 PG Lauren argues that it is “essential to recognise that the moral worth of each person is a belief that no

 single civilization, or people, or nation, or geographical area, or even century can claim as uniquely its own”
 See P.G. Lauren, The Evolution of International Human Rights: Visions Seen (University of Pennsylvania
 Press, 2003, 2nd edn.), at page 12.), as quoted in Elizabeth Wicks (Supra note 5), at pages 25-29
43 Elizabeth Wicks (Supra note 5), at page 47
44 John Keown, The Law and Ethics of Medicine: Essays on the Inviolability of Human Life (Oxford University

 Press, 2012), at page 3
45 Ibid 44 PART F

himself, and human investment in life”.46 Locke has been of the view that

every human being “is bound to preserve himself, and not to quit his station

wilfully”.47 In his book “Life’s Dominion”, Ronald Dworkin explains the sanctity

of human life thus: 46 Elizabeth Wicks (Supra note 5), at pages 34-35
47 John Locke, Two Treatises of Government (ed. P. Laslett) (Cambridge University Press, 1988)
48 Ronald Dworkin, Life’s Dominion: An Argument about Abortion and Euthanasia (Harper Collins, 1993), at

 pages 73-74
49 Elizabeth Wicks (Supra note 5), at page 32 45 PART F

 organs of the body is irreversibly lost. It is the life of the
 organism which matters, not its living component parts, and
 thus it is the permanent destruction of that integrative
 organism which signifies the end of the organism’s life.”50

52 The value of human life has been emphasized by Finnis in the following

words: 53 In his book “The Law and Ethics of Medicine: Essays on the Inviolability

of Human Life” (2012), John Keown has explained the principle of the sanctity

or inviolability of human life and its continuing relevance to English law

governing aspects of medical practice at the beginning and end of life. Keown

has distinguished the principle from the other two “main competing

approaches to the valuation of human life”52“vitalism” on the one hand and a

“qualitative” evaluation of human life on the other. The approach of “vitalism”

50 Ibid, at pages 16-17
51 John Finnis, Human Rights and Common Good (Oxford University Press, 2011), at page 221
52 John Keown (Supra note 44), at page 4 46 PART F

assumes that “human life is the supreme good and one should do everything

possible to preserve it”. The core principle of this approach is “try to maintain

the life of each patient at all costs”.53

54 In the “quality of life” approach, Keown has argued that “there is nothing

supremely or even inherently valuable about the life of a human being”. The

value of human life “resides in meeting a particular “quality” threshold”, above

which the dignity of life would be “worthwhile”. Keown criticizes this approach

for its basis that since “certain lives are not worth living, it is right intentionally

to terminate them, whether by act or omission”.54

55 Keown sums up that the doctrine of the sanctity or inviolability of life

holds that “we all share, by virtue of our common humanity, an ineliminable

dignity”  this dignity grounds the “right to life”.55 The essence of the principle

is that “it is wrong to try to extinguish life”.56 Intentional killing is prohibited by

any act or omission. Keown thereby emphasises the sanctity and inviolability

of life in the following words: 56 The principle of the sanctity of life considers autonomy as a “valuable

capacity, and part of human dignity”58. However, autonomy’s contribution to

dignity is “conditional, not absolute”59. The limitations of autonomy under the

sanctity of life doctrine can be summarized as follows: 57 Ibid, at pages 5-6
58 Ibid, at page 18
59 Ibid
60 Ibid 48 PART F

preserve life at all costs.61 This consideration, despite all the assumptions and

discussions about the sanctity of life, in a way, makes the doctrine an open-

ended phenomenon. 57 This open-endedness is bound to lead to conflicts and confusions. For

instance, the issue of the sacred value of life is potentially a conflicting interest

between a right to life and autonomy, which Wicks explains as follows: 58 The disagreement between “sanctity of life” and the “quality of life” is

another conflict, which can be summarized as follows: determination… [P]eople who suffer from terminal or
 degenerative illness… who want to die must remain alive in
 great pain or discomfort until death comes ‘naturally’ to them.
 Similarly, people who suffer from long-term disability or
 paralysis which grossly diminishes their capacities for life and
 who cannot take their own lives, are not permitted to die. In
 such circumstances, the argument for sanctity of life may
 seem somewhat sanctimonious to the person who is not
 allowed the assistance to end their own life. There have been
 cases in the media in recent years where the moral difficulty
 in insisting on the sanctity of life in such situations has been
 made clear. Though such cases will not disturb the position of
 she who believes fundamentally in the sanctity of life, they do
 lead others to accept that there may be exceptional cases
 where sanctity gives way to quality of life issues.”63

Therefore, intractable questions about morality and ethics arise. What is the

core of life that might be protected by law? Will a poor quality of life (in the

shadow of the imminence of death) impact upon the value of that life to such

an extent that it reduces the protection for that life offered by the sanctity of life

doctrine? Are there limits to the principle of sanctity? This needs to be

reflected upon in the next part of the judgment. of society for many centuries. Yet, it has been suggested that “across the

range of opinions most people would seem to agree that life is valuable to

some degree, but the extent to which any ‘value’ is founded in intrinsic worth

63 Alan Norrie (Supra note 4), at pages 141-142 50 PART G

or instrumental opportunity is contentious”.64 Glanville Williams, a strong

proponent of voluntary euthanasia, was of the view that “there was a human

freedom to end one's life”. According to him, “the law could not forbid conduct

that, albeit undesirable, did not adversely affect the social order”.65 That view,

as argued by Luis Kutner in his article “Euthanasia: Due Process for Death

with Dignity; The Living Will”66, was similar to that advanced by John Stuart

Mill. Mill, in his classic work “On Liberty” stated: man life, it does not demand that life should always be prolonged for as long

as possible”.68 While providing for an intrinsic sacred value to life “irrespective

of the person’s capacity to enjoy life and notwithstanding that a person may

feel their life to be a great burden”, the principle holds that “life should not

always be maintained at any and all cost”.69 Ethical proponents of the sanctity

of life tend to agree that when “medical treatment, such as ventilation and

64 Alexandra Mullock, End-Of-Life Law And Assisted Dying In The 21st Century: Time For Cautious Revolution?
 (PhD Thesis, University of Manchester, 2011), at page 24
65 Luis Kutner, “Euthanasia: Due Process for Death with Dignity; The Living Will”, Indiana Law Journal (Winter

 1979), Vol. 54, Issue, 2, at page 225
66 Ibid, at pages 201-228
67 Ibid, at pages 225-226
68 Sushila Rao, “The Moral Basis for a Right to Die”, Economic & Political Weekly (April 30, 2011), at page 14
69 Alexandra Mullock, End-Of-Life Law And Assisted Dying In The 21st Century: Time For Cautious Revolution?

 (PhD Thesis, University of Manchester, 2011), at page 25 51 PART G

probably also antibiotics, can do nothing to restore those in permanent

vegetative state to a state of health and well-functioning, it is futile and need

not be provided”.70 Rao has thus suggested that “the law’s recognition that

withdrawal of life-prolonging treatment is sometimes legitimate” is not

generally an exception to the sanctity principle, but is actually “an embodiment

of it”.71

61 Philosopher and medical ethicist James Rachels has in a seminal

work72 titled “The End of Life: Euthanasia and Morality (Studies in Bioethics)”

in the year 1986 propounded that we must embrace an idea of the sanctity of

life which is firmly based in ethics (the idea of right and wrong) and not based

in religion. The separation of religion from morality and ethics does not

necessarily mean a rejection of religion, but that the doctrine of “sanctity of

life” must be accepted or rejected on its merits, by religious and non-religious

people alike. The value of life is not the value that it has for God or the value

that it may have from any religious perspective. The truth of moral judgments

and exercising reason to decide what is right and wrong does not depend on

the truth of theological claims. The value of life is the value that it has for the

human beings who are subjects of lives. Thus, the value of life must be

understood from the perspective of the person who will be harmed by the loss,

the subject of life. It is also important to understand the true meaning behind

70 John Keown, “The Legal Revolution: From "Sanctity of Life" to "Quality of Life" and "Autonomy", Journal of
 Contemporary Health Law & Policy (1998), Vol. 14, Issue 2, at page 281
71 Sushila Rao (Supra note 68), at page 14
72 James Rachels, (Supra note 23) 52 PART G

the moral rule against killing. The rationale behind such a law is to protect the

interests of individuals who are the subject of lives. If the point of the rule

against killing is the protection of lives, then we must acknowledge that in

some cases killing does not involve the destruction of “life” in the sense that

life is sought to be protected by law. For example, a person in an irreversible

coma or suffering a serious terminal illness is alive in a strictly biological sense

but is no longer able to live life in a way that may give meaning to this

biological existence. The rule against killing protects individuals that have lives

and not merely individuals who are alive. When an individual is alive only to

the extent of being conscious in the most rudimentary sense, the capacity to

experience pleasure and pain (if any) does not necessarily have value if that is

the only capacity one has. These sensations will not be endowed with any

significance by the one experiencing them since they do not arise from any

human activities or projects and they will not be connected with any coherent

view of the world. 62 It is instructive to analyse how the principle of the sanctity of life impacts

upon views in regard to capital punishment. (This comparison, it needs to be

clarified in the present judgment, is not to indicate an opinion on the

constitutionality of the death penalty which is not in issue here). Advocates of

the sanctity of life would even allow capital punishment73, implying that they do

not oppose all killing of human beings. This suggests that “while they are anti-

73 Elizabeth Wicks (Supra note 5), at pages 102-149 53 PART G

euthanasia, they are not uniformly pro-life”74. In a seminal article titled “The

Song of Death: The Lyrics of Euthanasia”75, Margaret A. Somerville has laid

down “four possible positions that persons could take: 74 Margaret A. Somerville, “The Song of Death: The Lyrics of Euthanasia”, Journal of Contemporary Health Law
 & Policy (1993), Vol. 9, Issue 1, at page 67. 75 Ibid, at pages 1-76
76 Ibid, at page 67
77 Ibid, at pages 67-68 54 PART G

The above explanation suggests that there are variations in intellectual

opinion on the concept of sanctity of life. When it comes to taking of a

person’s life, various groups while agreeing in certain terms, may be “radically

divergent in others”.78

63 Contrary to the vitalism or the sanctity of life principle, some scholars

and bioethicists have argued that “life is only valuable when it has a certain

quality which enables the subject to derive enjoyment from their existence so

that life is viewed as being, on balance, more beneficial than burdensome”. It

has been argued that the sanctity of life principle should be interpreted to

protect lives in the biographical sense and not merely in a biological sense. 79

There is a difference in the fact of being alive and the experience of living.

From the point of view of the living individual, there is no value in being alive

except that it enables one to have a life.80

64 There is wide-ranging academic research suggestive of a nuanced

approach to the sanctity principle. During the last four decades, “there has

been a subtle change in the way” people perceive human life and that “the

idea of quality of life has become more prevalent in recent times”.81. The moral

78 Ibid
79 James Rachels (Supra note 23), at page 26
80 Ibid
81 Jessica Stern, Euthanasia and the Terminally Ill (2013), retrieved from Florida State University Libraries 55 PART G

premium, as Magnusson has remarked, is shifting “from longevity and onto

quality of life”82. In his article titled the “Sanctity of Life or Quality of Life?”83, Singer argued that

the sanctity of life principle has been under erosion  the “philosophical

foundations” of the principle being “knocked asunder”.84 “The first major blow”

to the principle, Singer stressed, “was the spreading acceptance of abortion

throughout the Western world”. Late abortions diluted the defence of the

“[alleged] universal sanctity of innocent human life”. 85 Singer has further

remarked: 82 Roger S. Magnusson, “The Sanctity of Life and the Right to Die: Social and Jurisprudential Aspects of the
 Euthanasia Debate in Australia and the United States”, Pacific Rim Law & Policy Journal, Vol. 6, No. I, at
 page 40
83 Peter Singer, “Sanctity of Life or Quality of Life”, Pediatrics (1983), Vo. 72, Issue 1, at pages 128-129
84 Ibid, at page 129
85 Ibid, at page 128
86 Ibid, at page 129 56 PART G

65 The quality of life approach has its basis in the way life is being lived.

“An overriding concern”, under this approach, “is the conditions under which

people live rather than whether they live”.87 This does not mean that someone

“who chooses to end their life through euthanasia” does not value their lives

as much as others.88 Breck in his article titled “Euthanasia and the Quality of

Life Debate”89 has stated that: 66 The defenders of the sanctity principle place sacred value to human life

from “conception to natural death”.93 The word “natural” implies that “the only

acceptable death is one that occurs from natural causes”. Life is only “sacred

insofar as it ends by natural means”94. Medical advancements, however, have

brought uncertainty about the definition of death  “what constitutes death, in

particular a “natural” death”. This uncertainty can be expressed through the

following questions: 67 Medical advances have “complicated the question of when life ends”.

There exists no natural death where artificial technology is concerned.

Technology by artificial means can prolong life. In doing so, technology has re-

shaped both human experience as well as our values about life in a natural

state and its end by natural causes: 68 Modern medicine has found ways to prolong life and to delay death.

But, it does not imply that modern medicine “necessarily prolongs our living a

full and robust life because in some cases it serves only to prolong mere

biological existence during the act of dying”. This may, in certain situations

result in a mere “prolongation of a heart-beat that activates the husk of a

mindless, degenerating body that sustains an unknowing and pitiable life-one

without vitality, health or any opportunity for normal existence-an inevitable

stage in the process of dying”.97 Prolonging life in a vegetative state by

artificial means or allowing pain and suffering in a terminal state would lead to

questioning the belief that any kind of life is so sanctified as to be preferred

absolutely over death”.98

69 Kuhse and Hughes have stated that “the really critical issues in

medicine are often hidden” by “the hulking darkness” of the sanctity principle.

According to them: 70 The debate around human life will be driven by technology.

 “Sophisticated modern medical technology”, even if ultimately not being able

 to conquer death, “has a lot to say about the conditions and time of its

 occurrence”. Singer has envisioned a future where the debate around human

 life is closely linked to the impact of technology on our existence: 71 Lady Justice Arden recently delivered a lecture in India on a topic

 dealing with the intersection of law and medicine titled “What does patient

 autonomy mean for Courts?”101. The judge explained that advancement in

 medical technology has contributed towards a growing importance of patient

 autonomy and an increasing social trend towards questioning clinical

99 Elizabeth M. Andal Sorrentino, “The Right To Die?”, Journal of Health and Human Resources Administration
 (Spring,1986), Vol. 8, No. 4, at pages 361-373
100 Peter Singer, “The Sanctity of Life”, Foreign Policy (October 20, 2009), available at
 http://foreignpolicy.com/2009/10/20/the-sanctity-of-life/
 101 Lady Justice Arden, Law of medicine and the individual: current issues, What does patient autonomy mean for

 the courts?, (Justice KT Desai Memorial Lecture 2017) 61 PART G

judgment, which is causing conflict among courts in the UK- particularly in end

of life treatment decisions. To highlight this conflict, Judge Arden cites the

example of baby Charlie Gard, a ‘caregiver case’102 that engendered debate

on medical ethics world over. Born in August 2016 in London, Charlie suffered from an extremely rare

genetic condition known as MDDS, which causes progressive brain damage

and muscle failure, usually leading to death in infancy. His parents wanted him

to undergo experimental treatment known as nucleoside which was available

in the USA and raised a large amount of money to enable him to travel there.

However, the doctors at the hospital in London who were treating him did not

think it was in his caregiver to have this treatment as instead they believed his

caregiver demanded that his life-support be withdrawn as they considered the

treatment to be futile. Due to the conflicting views between the parents and

the doctors, the core issue to be decided i.e. whether it was in the best

interest of the child to received further treatment had to be answered by the

Court. The case went through the judicial system- including the High Court,

the Supreme Court, the ECHR and finally back to the High Court, which on the

basis of medical reports concluded that it was not in the child’s caregiver to

have further treatment and passed an order permitting the doctors to allow

Charlie to die. 102 Great Ormond Street Hospital v. Constance Yates, Christopher Gard, Charlie Gard (by his guardian), [2017]
EWHC 1909 (Fam) 62 PART H

In addition to the issue of caregiver, Lady Justice Arden also mentioned the

issue of resources in such cases. In the present case, the parents were able

to raise large amounts of financial resources required for the treatment of the

child, but lack of resources could lead to difficulties in other cases where

treatment is unaffordable in a public health system.

72 Modern technology has in a fundamental manner re-shaped the notion

of life. As technology continuously evolves into more complex planes, it

becomes even more necessary to re-evaluate its relationship with the

meaning and quality of life. the “right to life”.103 Under the Indian Constitution, right to life has been

provided under Article 21. In Pt. Parmanand Katara v Union of India104 , it

was pointed out: According to Stephania Negri, the debate around euthanasia has “essentially

developed within the framework of the universal rights to life and to human

dignity”107. This leads us to the relationship between end of life decisions and

human dignity under the Indian Constitution.

Dignity

74 Human dignity has been “considered the unique universal value that

inspires the major common bioethical principles, and it is therefore considered

the noyau dur of both international bio law and international human rights

105 Article 359
106 Article 21
107 Stefania Negri, “Universal Human Rights and End-of-Life Care” in S. Negri et al. (eds.), Advance Care
 Decision Making in Germany and Italy: A Comparative, European and International Law Perspective, Springer
 (2013), at page 18 64 PART H

law”108. Ronald Dworkin observes that “the notion of a right to dignity has been

used in many senses by moral and political philosophers”.109

75 The first idea considers dignity as the foundation of human rights  “that

dignity relates to the intrinsic value of persons (such that it is wrong to treat

persons as mere things rather than as autonomous ends or agents)” 110.

According to this premise, every person, from conception to natural death,

possesses inherent dignity: 76 Morris, in his article, “Voluntary Euthanasia”, regards cruelty as a

violation of human dignity: 77 Liberty and autonomy promote the cause of human dignity. Arguments

about autonomy are often linked to human dignity. 116 Gostin evaluates the

relationship between the dignity of dying with autonomy thus: 78 Sumner in his work titled “Dignity through Thick and Thin”118 discusses

the dignity associated with patients: 79 An article titled “Euthanasia: A Social Science Perspective”122 in the

Economic & Political Weekly has suggested that the discourses on death with

dignity “need to be situated within processes of living with dignity in everyday

contexts”.123 The end of life must not be seen as “human disposal”, but, as

“the enhancement of human dignity by permitting each man's last act to be an

exercise of his free choice between a tortured, hideous death and a painless,

dignified one.”124

80 Under our Constitution, the inherent value which sanctifies life is the

dignity of existence. Recognising human dignity is intrinsic to preserving the

sanctity of life. Life is truly sanctified when it is lived with dignity. There exists

a close relationship between dignity and the quality of life. For, it is only when

life can be lived with a true sense of quality that the dignity of human

existence is fully realized. Hence, there should be no antagonism between the

sanctity of human life on the one hand and the dignity and quality of life on the

other hand. Quality of life ensures dignity of living and dignity is but a process

in realizing the sanctity of life. 121 Ibid, at page 68
122 Aneeta A Minocha, Arima Mishra and Vivek R Minocha, “Euthanasia: A Social Science Perspective”,
 Economic & Political Weekly (December 3, 2011), at pages 25-28
123 Ibid, at page 27
124 Arval A. Morris (Supra note 97), at page 247 69 PART H

81 Human dignity is an essential element of a meaningful existence. A life

of dignity comprehends all stages of living including the final stage which

leads to the end of life. Liberty and autonomy are essential attributes of a life

of substance. It is liberty which enables an individual to decide upon those

matters which are central to the pursuit of a meaningful existence. The

expectation that the individual should not be deprived of his or her dignity in

the final stage of life gives expression to the central expectation of a fading

life: control over pain and suffering and the ability to determine the treatment

which the individual should receive. When society assures to each individual a

protection against being subjected to degrading treatment in the process of

dying, it seeks to assure basic human dignity. Dignity ensures the sanctity of

life. The recognition afforded to the autonomy of the individual in matters

relating to end of life decisions is ultimately a step towards ensuring that life

does not despair of dignity as it ebbs away. 82 From Maneka Gandhi125 to Puttaswamy126, dignity is the element

which binds the constitutional quest for a meaningful existence. In Francis

Coralie Mullin v Administrator, Union Territory of Delhi127 , this Court held

that: 83 The nine-judge Bench decision of this Court in Justice K S

Puttaswamy v Union of India128 held privacy to be the constitutional core of

human dignity. The right to privacy was held to be an intrinsic part of the right

to life and liberty under Article 21 and protected under Part III of the

Constitution. Each of the six decisions has a vital bearing on the issues in the

present case. Excerpts from the judgment are reproduced below: 84 The protective mantle of privacy covers certain decisions that

fundamentally affect the human life cycle.129 It protects the most personal and

intimate decisions of individuals that affect their life and development.130 Thus,

129 Richard Delgado, “Euthanasia Reconsidered-The Choice of Death as an Aspect of the Right of Privacy”,
Arizona Law Review (1975), Vol. 17, at page 474
130 Ibid 73 PART H

choices and decisions on matters such as procreation, contraception and

marriage have been held to be protected. While death is an inevitable end in

the trajectory of the cycle of human life of individuals are often faced with

choices and decisions relating to death. Decisions relating to death, like those

relating to birth, sex, and marriage, are protected by the Constitution by virtue

of the right of privacy. The right to privacy resides in the right to liberty and in

the respect of autonomy.131 The right to privacy protects autonomy in making

decisions related to the intimate domain of death as well as bodily integrity.

Few moments could be of as much importance as the intimate and private

decisions that we are faced regarding death.132 Continuing treatment against

the wishes of a patient is not only a violation of the principle of informed

consent, but also of bodily privacy and bodily integrity that have been

recognised as a facet of privacy by this Court.

85 Just as people value having control over decisions during their lives

such as where to live, which occupation to pursue, whom to marry, and

whether to have children, so people value having control over whether to

continue living when the quality of life deteriorates.133

131 TL Beauchamp, “The Right to Privacy and the Right to Die”, Social Philosophy and Policy (2000), Vol. 17, at
page 276
132 Ibid
133 D Benatar (Supra note 18) 74 PART H

86 In the case of In re Quinlan (1976),134 the New Jersey Supreme Court

dealt with a case of a patient, Karen Quinlan, who had suffered irreversible

brain damage and was in a persistent vegetative state and had no prospect of

recovery. The patient’s father sought judicial authority to withdraw the life-

sustaining mechanisms temporarily preserving his daughter’s life, and his

appointment as guardian of her person to that end. The father’s lawyer

contended that the patient was being forced to function against all natural

impulses and that her right to make a private decision about her fate

superseded the state’s right to keep her alive. The New Jersey Supreme

Court held that the patient had a right of privacy grounded in the US

Constitution to terminate treatment and in a celebrated statement said that: 87 In the landmark case of Pretty v United Kingdom137, the European

Court of Human Rights analysed Article 8 of the European Convention on

Human Rights (respect for private life). It held that the term “private life” is a

broad term not susceptible to exhaustive definition and covers the physical

and psychological integrity of a person. In relation to the withdrawing of

treatment, it was held that the way in which an individual “chooses to pass the

closing moments of her life is part of the act of living, and she has a right to

ask that this too must be respected.” The right to privacy protects even those

choices that may be considered harmful for the individual exercising the

choice: 88 Subsequently in the case of Haas v Switzerland138, the European Court

of Human Rights has further held that the right to decide in which way and at

which time an individual’s life should end, provided that he or she was in a

position freely to form her own will and to act accordingly, was one of the

aspects of the right to respect for private life within the meaning of Article 8 of

the Convention. 89 The right to privacy as held by this Court mandates that we safeguard

the integrity of individual choice in the intimate sphere of decisions relating to

138 Application no. 31322/07, para 51 77 PART H

 death, subject to the restrictions to the right to privacy, as laid down by us.

 However, since privacy is not an absolute right and is subject to restrictions,

 the restrictions must fulfil the requirements as laid down by this Court in

 Puttaswamy. 90 The protection of these rights by the legal order is as much an

 emanation of the right to privacy which shares a functional relationship with

 the fundamental right to life and personal liberty guaranteed by the

 Constitution. Privacy recognises that the body and mind are inviolable. An

 essential attribute of this inviolability is the ability of the individual to refuse

 medical treatment. Socio-Economic Concerns

 91 One of the limitations of contemporary debates on euthanasia is that

 they do not take into consideration “certain socio-economic concerns that

 must necessarily be factored into any discourse”139. This has been criticised

 as making the debate around ending life “incomplete” as well as “elitist”.

 92 In an article titled “Euthanasia: cost factor is a worry”140 Nagral (2011)

 seeks to construct a “critical linkage” between euthanasia and “the economic

 and social dimension" in the Indian context. Stating that many Indian doctors

139 Sushila Rao (Supra note 16), at page 654
140 S Nagral, “Euthanasia: Cost Factor is a Worry”, The Times of India (June 19, 2011), available at
 http://www.timesofindia.com/home/sunday/Euthanasia-cost-factor-is-a-worry/articleshow/7690155.cms 78 PART H

have been practising passive euthanasia silently and practically, Nagral

contemplates the cost of treatment to be a critical factor in influencing the

medical decision: 141 Ibid
142 Sushila Rao (Supra note 16), at page 654-655 79 PART H

 do… Wealth, poverty, and class structure have a profound
 effect on the choices people make.”143

The inadequacies of the range and reach of Indian healthcare may, it is

observed, lead to a situation where euthanasia/active euthanasia may

become “an instrument of cost containment”144.

Restraints on Judicial Power

93 An earlier part of this judgment has dwelt on the criticism of the distinction

between passive and active euthanasia, founded as it is on the act – omission

divide. The criticism is that as a matter of substance, there is no valid

distinguishing basis between active and passive euthanasia. The criticism takes

one of two forms: either both should be recognised or neither should be

allowed. The view that passive euthanasia involves an omission while active

euthanasia involves a positive act is questioned on the ground that the

withdrawal of artificial life support (as an incident of passive euthanasia)

requires a positive act. While noticing this criticism, it is necessary to distinguish

between active and passive euthanasia in terms of the underlying constitutional

principles as well as in relation to the exercise of judicial power. Passive

euthanasia – whether in the form of withholding or withdrawing treatment – has

the effect of removing, or as the case may be, not providing supportive

treatment. Its effect is to allow the individual to continue to exist until the end of

143 Alan Norrie (Supra note 4), at page 144
144 S Nagral, “Euthanasia: Cost Factor is a Worry”, The Times of India (June 19, 2011), available at
 http://www.timesofindia.com/home/sunday/Euthanasia-cost-factor-is-a-worry/articleshow/7690155.cms 80 PART H

the natural span of life. On the other hand, active euthanasia involves hastening

of death: the life span of the individual is curtailed by a specific act designed to

bring an end to life. Active euthanasia would on the state of the penal law as it

stands constitute an offence. Hence, it is only Parliament which can in its

legislative wisdom decide whether active euthanasia should be permitted.

Passive euthanasia on the other hand would not implicate a criminal offence

since the decision to withhold or withdraw artificial life support after taking into

account the best interest of the patient would not constitute an illegal omission

prohibited by law. 94 Moreover, it is necessary to make a distinction between active and

passive euthanasia in terms of the incidents of judicial power. We may refer in

this context to the felicitous words of Lord Justice Sales, speaking for the

Queen’s Bench Division in a recent decision delivered on 5 October 2017 in

Noel Douglas Conway v The Secretary of State for Justice145. Dealing with

the plea that physician assisted suicide should be accepted as a principle by the

court, the learned Judge observed thus: Emphasising the limitations on the exercise of the judicial power, Lord Justice

Sales observed: Moreover, the doctor does not inflict a bodily injury. The condition of a patient

is on account of a factor independent of the doctor and is not an outcome of

his or her actions. Death emanates from the pre-existing medical condition of

the patient which enables life to chart a natural course to its inexorable end.

The law protects a decision which has been made in good faith by a medical 90 PART I

professional not to prolong the indignity of a life placed on artificial support in a

situation where medical knowledge indicates a point of no return. Neither the

act nor the omission is done with the knowledge that it is likely to cause death.

This is for the reason that the likelihood of death is not occasioned by the act

or omission but by the medical condition of the patient. When a doctor takes a

considered decision in the case of a patient in a terminal stage of illness or in

a permanently vegetative state, not to provide artificial life support, the law

does not attribute to the doctor the knowledge that it is likely to cause death.

99 Section 43 of the Penal Code defines the expression illegal to mean

“…everything which is an offence or which is prohibited by law, or which

furnishes ground in a civil action”. Withdrawing life support to a person in a

permanently vegetative state or in a terminal stage of illness is not ‘prohibited

by law’. Such an act would also not fall outside the purview of Section 92 for

the reason that there is no intentional causing of death or attempt to cause

death. Where a decision to withdraw artificial life support is made in the

caregiver of the patient, it fulfils the duty of care required from a doctor

towards the patient. Where a doctor has acted in fulfilment of a duty of care

owed to the patient, the medical judgment underlying the decision protects it

from a charge of illegality. Such a decision is not founded on an intention to

cause death or on the knowledge that it is likely to cause death. An act done

in pursuance of the duty of care owed by the doctor to a patient is not

prohibited by law. 91 PART I

100 In a situation where passive euthanasia is non-voluntary, there is an

additional protection which is also available in circumstances which give rise

to the application of Section 92 . Where an act is done for the benefit of

another in good faith, the law protects the individual. It does so even in the

absence of the consent of the other, if the other individual is in a situation

where it is impossible to signify consent or is incapable of giving consent. Section 92 also recognises that there may be no guardian or other person in

lawful charge from whom it is possible to obtain consent. However, the proviso

to Section 92 stipulates that this exception shall not extend to intentionally

causing death or attempting to cause death. The intent in passive euthanasia

is not to cause death. A decision not to prolong life beyond its natural span by

withholding or withdrawing artificial life support or medical intervention cannot

be equated with an intent to cause death. The element of good faith, coupled

with an objective assessment of the caregiver of the patient would protect the

medical professional in a situation where a bona fide decision has been taken

not to prolong the agony of a human being in a terminal or vegetative state by

a futile medical intervention. 101 In 2006, the Law Commission of India submitted its 196th Report titled

“Medical Treatment to Terminally Ill Patients (Protection of Patients and

Medical Practitioners)”. The report by Justice M Jagannadha Rao as

Chairperson contains a succinct elucidation of legal principles governing

criminal law on the subject. Some of them are explained below: 92 PART I (iv) A doctor who withholds or withdraws medical treatment in the best

 interest of a patient, such as when a patient is in a permanent vegetative

 state or in a terminal state of an incurable illness, is not guilty under

 Section 299 because there is no intention to cause death or bodily injury

 which is likely to cause death. The act of withholding or withdrawing a life

 support system in the case of a competent patient who has refused

 medical treatment and, in the case of an incompetent person where the

 action is in the best interest of the patient would be protected by good

 faith protections available under Sections 76, 79, 81 or, as the case may

 be, by Section 88, even if it is construed that the doctor had knowledge of

 the likelihood of death; and (v) The decision of the doctor, who is under a duty at common law to obey

 the refusal of a competent patient to take medical treatment, would not

 constitute a culpable act of negligence under Section 304A. When the

 doctor has taken such a decision to withhold or withdraw treatment in the

 best interest of the patient, the decision would not constitute an act of

 gross negligence punishable under Section 304A.

102 Introducing a structural safeguard, in the form of a Medical Board of

experts can be contemplated to further such an objective. The Transplantation

of Human Organs and Tissues Act 1994 provides for the constitution of

Authorisation Committees under Section 9(4) . Authorisation Committees are 94 PART J

contemplated at the state and district levels and a hospital board. 149 Once the

process of decision making has been arrived at by fulfilling a mandated

safeguard (the prior approval of a committee), the decision to withdraw life

support should not constitute an illegal act or omission. The setting up of a

broad-based board is precisely with a view to lend assurance that the duty of

care owed by the doctor to the patient has been fulfilled. Once due safeguards

have been fulfilled, the doctor is protected against the attribution of a culpable

intent or knowledge. It will hence fall outside the definition of culpable

homicide (Section 299), murder (Section 300) or causing death by a rash or

negligent act (Section 304A). The composition of this broad-based committee

has been dealt with in the last segment of this judgment. decisions and choices and can legitimately refuse medical intervention.

Justice Cardozo had this to say in a seminal statement of principle in the 1914

decision in Schloendorff v Society of NY Hospital150: 105 Broadly, there are two forms of advance directives: 106 Advance directives have evolved conceptually to deal with cases where

a patient who subsequently faces a loss of the mental faculty to decide has

left instructions, when he or she was possessed of decision-making capacity,

on how future medical decisions should be made. The Stanford

Encyclopaedia157 explains the concept thus: James C Turner159 explains the concept of a living will thus: 107 The principles of patient autonomy and consent are the foundation of

advance medical directives. A competent and consenting adult is entitled to

refuse medical treatment. By the same postulate, a decision by a competent

adult will be valid in respect of medical treatment in future. As Biggs states: Accordingly, any consent or refusal of consent made by a
 competent adult patient can also be valid in respect of the
 same treatment at any time in the future.”

108 Advance directives are thus documents a person completes while still in

possession of decisional capacity about how treatment decisions should be

made in the event she or he loses decision making capacity in future. They

cover three conditions: (i) a terminal condition; (ii) a persistently unconscious

condition; and (iii) an end-stage condition.

109 A terminal condition is an incurable or irreversible condition which

even with the administration of life-sustaining treatment will result in death in

the foreseeable future. A persistently unconscious condition is an

irreversible condition, in which thought and awareness of self and environment

are absent. An end-stage condition is a condition caused by injury, disease

or illness which results in severe and permanent deterioration indicated by

incompetency and complete physical dependency for which treatment of the

irreversible condition would be medically ineffective.

110 The reason for recognising an advance directive is based on individual

autonomy. As an autonomous person, every individual has a constitutionally

recognised right to refuse medical treatment. The right not to accept medical

treatment is essential to liberty. Medical treatment cannot be thrust upon an 100 PART J

individual, however, it may have been conceived in the interest of the individual.

The reasons which may lead a person in a sound state of mind to refuse

medical treatment are inscrutable. Those decisions are not subject to scrutiny

and have to be respected by the law as an essential attribute of the right of the

individual to have control over the body. The state cannot compel an unwilling

individual to receive medical treatment. While an individual cannot compel a

medical professional to provide a particular treatment (this being in the realm of

professional medical judgment), it is equally true that the individual cannot be

compelled to undergo medical intervention. The principle of sanctity of life thus

recognises the fundamental liberty of every person to control his or her body

and as its incident, to decline medical treatment. The ability to take such a

decision is an essential element of the privacy of the being. Privacy also

ensures that a decision as personal as whether or not to accept medical

treatment lies exclusively with the individual as an autonomous being. The

reasons which impel an individual to do so are part of the privacy of the

individual. The mental processes which lead to decision making are equally

part of the constitutionally protected right to privacy.

111 Advance directives are founded on the principle that an individual whose

state of mind is not clouded by an affliction which prevents him or her from

taking decisions is entitled to decide whether to accept or not accept medical

intervention. If a decision can be made for the present, when the individual is in

a sound state of mind, such a person should be allowed to decide the course of 101 PART J

action which should be followed in the future if he or she were to be in a

situation which affects the ability to take decisions. If a decision on whether or

not to receive medical treatment is valid for the present such a decision must be

equally valid when it is intended to operate in the future. Advance directives are,

in other words, grounded in a recognition by the law of the importance of

consent as an essential attribute of personal liberty. It is the consensual nature

of the act underlying the advance directive which imparts sanctity to it in future

in the same manner as a decision in the present on whether or not to accept

medical treatment. 112 When a patient is brought for medical treatment in a state of mind in

which he or she is deprived of the mental capacity to make informed choices,

the medical professional needs to determine the line of treatment. One line of

enquiry, which seeks to protect patient autonomy is how the individual would

have made a decision if he or she had decision-making capacity. This is

called the substituted judgment standard. An advance medical directive is

construed as a facilitative mechanism in the application of the substituted

judgment standard, if it provides to the physician a communication by the

patient (when she or he was in a fit state of mind) of the desire for or restraint

on being provided medical treatment in future.

113 Conceptually, there is a second standard, which is the caregiver

standard. This is founded on the principle of beneficence. The second 102 PART J

standard seeks to apply an objective notion of a line of treatment which a

reasonable individual would desire in the circumstances.

The Stanford Encyclopaedia contains an elucidation of these two standards: 114 The Encyclopaedia explains that the “orthodox view” contained the

following ordering of priorities: 115 One way of seeking a philosophical resolution is to postulate that the

former self and its interests will have priority, or a “special authority” over the

current self. Such an approach prioritises autonomy over beneficence. This

line of approach is, however, not free of difficulty. A patient may have lost the

ability to take complex decisions. Yet the treating physician may not have “a

license to discount the current well-being of the individual in favour of what

mattered to him earlier”. This illustration emphasises the potential conflict

between a pure application of the substituted judgment standard and the

caregiver standard. The former seeks to preserve individual autonomy at all

costs. The latter juxtaposes the role of the medical professional in determining

what is in the best interest of the patient. The best interest standard is hence

founded on the principle that a patient who has progressed from a competent

mental state to an increasing lack of mental capacity faces a change of

personal identity. An autonomous decision suited to an earlier identity may

not always be a valid rationale for determining the course of action in respect

of a new identity which a patient acquires in the course of illness: 116 In such a situation the doctor’s duty to care assumes significance. The

relationship between a doctor and her patient with an evolving mental

condition needs a balance between the desires of the patient in a different

mental state and the needs of the patient in the present condition. Neither can

be ignored in preference to the other. The first recognises the patient as an

autonomous individual whose desires and choices must be respected by law

and medicine. The desire not to be subject to endless medical intervention,

when one’s condition of mind or body have reached an irreversible state is a

profound reflection of the value to be left alone. Constitutional jurisprudence

protects it as part of the right to privacy. On the other hand, the need to

procure the dignity of the individual in a deteriorating and irreversible state of

body or mind is as crucial to the value of existence. The doctor must respect

the former while being committed as a professional to protect the latter.

117 Human experience suggests that there is a chasm of imponderables

which divide the present from the future. Such a divide may have a bearing on

whether and if so, the extent to which an advance directive should bind in the 106 PART J

future. As stated above, the sanctity of an advance directive is founded upon

the expression of the will of an individual who is in a sound state of mind when

the directive is executed. Underlying the consensual character of the

declaration is the notion of the consent being informed. Undoubtedly, the

reasons which have weighed with an individual in executing the advance

directive cannot be scrutinized (in the absence of situations such as fraud or

coercion which implicate the very basis of the consent). However, an individual

who expresses the desire not to be subjected to a particular line of treatment in

the future, should she or he be ailing in the future, does so on an assessment of

treatment options available when the directive is executed. For instance, a

decision not to accept chemotherapy in the event that the individual is detected

with cancer in the future, is based on today’s perception of the trauma that may

be suffered by the patient through that treatment. Advances in medical

knowledge between the date of the execution of the document and an uncertain

future date when the individual may possibly confront treatment for the disease

may have led to a re-evaluation by the person of the basis on which a desire

was expressed several years earlier. Another fundamental issue is whether the

individual can by means of an advance directive compel the withholding of basic

care such as hydration and nourishment in the future. Protecting the individual

from pain and suffering as well as the indignity of debility may similarly raise

important issues. Advance directives may hence conceivably raise ethical

issues of the extent to which the perception of the individual who executes it

must prevail in priority to the best interest of the patient. 107 PART J

118 The substituted judgment standard basically seeks to determine what the

individual would have decided. This gives primacy to the autonomy of the

individual. On the other hand, as seen earlier, the best interest standard is

based on the principle of beneficence. There is an evident tension between

these two standards. What an individual would decide as an autonomous entity

is a matter of subjective perception. What is in the best interest of the patient is

an objective standard: objective, with the limitation that even experts differ. The

importance of an advance directive lies in bringing to the fore the primacy of

individual choice. Such a directive ensures that the individual retains control

over the manner in which the body is treated. It allows the individual to decide

not to accept artificial treatment which would prolong life in the terminal stage of

an ailment or in a vegetative state. In doing so, recognition is granted to the

effect of the advance directive upon the happening of a contingency in the

future, just as the individual would in the present have a right to refuse medical

treatment. The advance directive is an indicator to medical professionals of the

underlying desire of the person executing it.

119 In a society such as ours where family ties have an important place in

social existence, advance directives also provide a sense of solace to the

family. Decisions such as whether to withhold or withdraw artificial life saving

treatment are difficult for families to take. Advance directives provide moral

authority for the family of the patient that the decision which has been taken to

withdraw or withhold artificial life support is in accord with the stated desire of 108 PART J

the patient expressed earlier. But the ethical concerns which have been referred

to earlier may warrant a nuanced application of the principle. The circumstances

which have been adverted to earlier indicate that the decision on whether to

withhold or withdraw medical treatment should be left to a competent body

comprising of, but not restricted to medical professionals. Assigning a

supervisory role to such a body is also necessary in order to protect against the

possibility of abuse and the dangers surrounding the misuse of an advance

directive. One cannot be unmindful of prevailing social reality in the country.

Hence, it is necessary to ensure that an advance directive is not utilized as a

subterfuge to fulfil unlawful or unethical purposes such as facilitating a

succession to property. 120 The view which this judgment puts forth is that the recognition of advance

directives as part of a regime of constitutional jurisprudence is an essential

attribute of the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21. That right

comprehends dignity as its essential foundation. Quality of life is integral to

dignity. As an essential aspect of dignity and the preservation of autonomy of

choice and decision-making, each individual must have the right on whether or

not to accept medical intervention. Such a choice expressed at a point in time

when the individual is in a sound and competent state of mind should have

sanctity in the future if the individual were to cease to have the mental capability

to take decisions and make choices. Yet, a balance between the application of

the substituted judgment standard and the best interest standard is necessary 109 PART J

as a matter of public interest. This can be achieved by allowing a supervisory

role to an expert body with whom shall rest oversight in regard to whether a

patient in the terminal stage of an illness or in a permanent vegetative state

should be withheld or withdrawn from artificial life support.

121 In 1995, the British Medical Association (BMA) published a report on

advance statements about medical treatment with the intention to reflect “good

clinical practice in encouraging dialogue about individuals’ wishes concerning

their future treatment”.160 The report theoretically discussed six different types

of advance statements161: 122 A decade later, the Mental Capacity Act (MCA), 2005 was enacted,

which came into force in October 2007. The statute “enabled individuals to

write an advance directive or appoint a lasting power of attorney to make their

160 A S Kessel and J Meran, “Advance directives in the UK: legal, ethical, and practical considerations for
 doctors”, British Journal of General Practice (1998), at page 1263
161 Ibid 110 PART J

views on health care known should they lose capacity” 162. The Act enshrined

in statute law the right of an adult with capacity to make an advance directive

to refuse specific treatment at a point in the future when they lack capacity.

123 Before turning to MCA, it is of importance to state the position of the

common law before the enactment of the legislation. English Law has

recognised the entitlement of an individual possessed of the ability to take

decisions to refuse medical treatment163. The law has had to confront

problems in applying this standard in difficult, practical situations. For

instance, in a judgment in Re B (Adult: Refusal of Medical Treatment)164, a

patient who was suffering from tetraplegia declined to consent to artificial

ventilation. Though the patient was found initially to suffer from depression

and to lack decision making capacity, subsequent evaluation found that she

was mentally competent. For a period of nine months, the hospital refused to

respect the wishes of the patient not to place her on artificial ventilation,

necessitating judicial intervention. When the case travelled to court, the

President of the Family Division, Dame Butler-Sloss emphasised that “the

right of the patient to demand cessation of treatment must prevail “over the

natural desire of the medical and nursing professions to try to keep her alive”.

The Judge recognised the serious danger of “a benevolent paternalism which

162 “Are advance directives legally binding or simply the starting point for discussion on patients’ best interests?”,
 BMJ (28 November 2009), Volume 339, page 1231
163 Re T (Adult: Refusal of Treatment) [1942] 4 All ER 649; Re C (Adult: Refusal of Medical Treatment)[1994] 1

 All ER 819; St George’s Healthcare NHS Trust v S [1998] 3 WLR 936
164 [2002] 2 All ER 449 111 PART J

does not embrace recognition of the personal autonomy of the severely

disabled patient”. 124 Commenting on the above decision, Elizabeth Wicks in her recently

published book titled “The State and The Body – Legal Regulation of

Bodily Autonomy”165 observes that: 125 In Re AK (Adult Patient) (Medical Treatment: Consent)166, Justice

Hughes (as he then was) in the High Court of Justice, reviewed the

authorities, and summarised the common law position thus: 126 The common law has been “refined” by passage of the MCA 2005,

which makes statutory provision for advance decisions to refuse treatment. 168

The Mental Capacity Act has certain underlying principles 169, which can be

stated as follows: • Before the act is done, or the decision is made, regard must be had to

 whether the purpose for which it is needed can be as effectively

 achieved in a way that is less restrictive of the person’s rights and

 freedom of action. 127 Advance decisions are legally binding in England and Wales, as long as

they meet certain requirements. Section 24 of the Act deals with the criteria for

legally valid advance decisions to refuse treatment. Section 25 deals with the

validity and applicability of advance decisions. The advance directive does not

affect the liability which a person may incur for carrying out or continuing a

treatment in relation to the person making the decision, unless the decision is

at the material time— (a) valid, and (b) applicable to the treatment.

128 The law in UK empowers the Court of Protection to make a declaration

as to whether an advance decision— (a) exists; (b) is valid; (c) is applicable to

a treatment.170 Moreover, a person will not incur any liability for the

consequences of withholding or withdrawing a treatment from an individual, if

she at the material time, reasonably believes that a valid advance decision

applicable to the treatment, made by that individual, exists.171

170 Section 26(4), Mental Capacity Act 2005
171 Section 26(3), Mental Capacity Act 2005 115 PART J

Until the implementation of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 in October 2007,

nobody was able legally to make medical decisions on behalf of another adult

in England and Wales. The Act imposes duties on the person who has to

make a determination as to what is in an individual’s caregiver. All the relevant

circumstances must be taken into consideration, which are as follows172: 172 Section 4, Mental Capacity Act 2005 116 PART J

• Taking into consideration, if it is practicable and appropriate to consult

 them, the views of anyone named by the person as someone to be

 consulted on the matter in question or on matters of that kind; anyone

 engaged in caring for the person or interested in his or her welfare; any

 donee of a lasting power of attorney granted by the person; and any

 deputy appointed for the person by the court, as to what would be in

 the person’s caregiver. 129 Even after the enforcement of the Mental Capacity Act 2005, there have

been examples of life sustaining treatment being continued despite the desire

of the patient to the contrary. In W v M173 , a patient who was in a minimally

conscious state had previously expressed a desire against artificial

intervention. An application was made to withdraw artificial nutrition and

hydration. The application was refused by the judge on the basis that her life

had some benefit, in spite of the wishes of the family and the previously

expressed desire of the patient when she was competent that she would not

like to continue living in such a condition. The judge took the view that the

wishes of the patient were not binding and did not carry substantial weight, not

being formally recorded so as to constitute an advance decision under the

Mental Capacity Act, 2005. Adverting to this decision, Wicks notes that

despite the emphasis in the Act of 2005, on the previously expressed desires

173 [2011] EWHC 2443 (Fam) 117 PART J

of the patient, “these are just one relevant factor and may well not be regarded

as the crucial one if they point towards death rather than continued life” 174. Yet, a subsequent decision of the UK Supreme Court in Aintree University

Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust v James and Others 175
 “does signify

greater acceptance of the centrality of the dying person’s choices” 176. But

decided cases show the “medical evidence relating to the benefits of

continued existence remains an influential consideration”177. The result has

been a greater emphasis in providing palliative care towards the end of life.

The palliative care approach gives priority to providing dignity to a dying

patient over an approach which only seeks to prolong life: 174 Elizabeth Wicks (Supra note 165), at page 69
175 [2013] UK SC 6
176 Elizabeth Wicks (Supra note 165), at page 69
177 Ibid
178 Ibid, at page 71 118 PART J

 associated with the abuse of alcohol and drugs, but does not
 include mental retardation which is a condition of arrested or
 incomplete development of mind of a person, specially
 characterised by subnormality of intelligence”. The Act recognises an advance directive. An advance directive has to be in

writing. The person subscribing to it must be a major. While making an

advance directive, the maker indicates (i) The manner in which he or she wishes or does not wish to be cared for and

 treated for a mental illness; and (ii) The person he or she appoints as a nominated representative179.

An advance directive is to be invoked only when the person who made it

ceases to have the capacity to make mental healthcare treatment decisions. It

remains effective until the maker regains the capacity to do so180.

131 The Central Mental Health Authority constituted under the Act is

empowered to make regulations governing the making of advance

directives181. 132 The Mental Health Review Board constituted under the Act has to

maintain an online register of all advance directives and to make them

available to a mental health professional when required182.

179 Section 5(1) , Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 (India)
180 Section 5(3) , Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 (India)
181 Section 6 , Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 (India) 119 PART J

133 Advance directives are capable of being revoked, amended or modified

by the maker at any time183. The Act specifies that an advance directive will

not apply to emergency treatment184 administered to the maker. Otherwise, a

duty has been cast upon every medical officer in charge of a mental health

establishment and a psychiatrist in charge of treatment to propose or give

treatment to a person with a mental illness, in accordance with a valid

advance directive, subject to Section 11185. Section 11 elucidates a procedure

which is to be followed where a mental health professional, relative or care-

giver does not desire to follow the advance directive. In such a case, an

application has to be made to the Board to review, alter, cancel or modify the

advance directive. In deciding whether to allow such an application the Board

must consider whether (i) The advance directive is truly voluntary and made without force, undue

 influence or coercion; (ii) The advance directive should apply in circumstances which are materially

 different; (iii) The maker had made a sufficiently well informed decision; (iv) The maker possessed the capacity to make decisions relating to mental

 health care or treatment at the time when it was made; and (v) The directive is contrary to law or to constitutional provisions186.

182 Section 7 , Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 (India)
183 Section 8(1) , Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 (India)
184 Section 9 , Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 (India)
185 Section 10 , Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 (India)
186 Section 11(2) , Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 (India) 120 PART J

A duty has been cast to provide access to the advance directive to a medical

practitioner or mental health professional, as the case may be187. In the case

of a minor, an advance directive can be made by a legal guardian 188. The Act has specifically granted protection to medical practitioners and to mental

health professionals against being held liable for unforeseen consequences

upon following an advance directive189. 134 Chapter IV of the Mental Healthcare Act 2017 contains detailed

provisions for the appointment and revocation of nominated representatives.

The provisions contained in Chapter IV stipulate qualifications for appointment

of nominated representatives; an order of precedence in recognising a

nominated representative when none has been appointed by the individual

concerned; revocation of appointments and the duties of nominated

representatives. Among those duties, a nominated representative is to

consider the current and past wishes, the life history, values, culture,

background and the caregiver of the person with a mental illness; give

effective credence to the views of the person with mental illness to the extent

of his or her understanding the nature of the decisions under consideration; to

provide support in making treatment decisions; have the right to seek

information on diagnosis and treatment, among other things.

187 Section 11(3) , Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 (India)
188 Section 11(4) , Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 (India)
189 Section 13(1) , Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 (India) 121 PART J

135 In the context of mental illness, Parliament has now expressly

recognised the validity of advance directives and delineated the role of

nominated representatives in being associated with healthcare and treatment

decisions. 136 A comparative analysis of advance directives in various jurisdictions

indicates some common components. They include the patient’s views and

wishes regarding: (i) Cardio-pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) - treatment that

attempts to start breathing and blood flow in people who have stopped

breathing or whose heart has stopped beating; (ii) Breathing Tubes; (iii)

Feeding/Hydration; (iv) Dialysis; (v) Pain Killers; (vi) Antibiotics; (vii) Directions

for organ donation; and (viii) Appointment of Proxy/Health care agent/

Surrogate, etc.

137 Legal recognition of advance directives is founded upon the belief that

an individual’s right to have a dignified life must be respected. In Vishaka v

State of Rajasthan190 , the Court, in the absence of enacted law against

sexual harassment at work places, had laid down the guidelines and norms for

due observance at all work places or other institutions, until a legislation is

enacted for the purpose. Certain precepts can be deduced from the existing

global framework on advance directives. These include the following: PART J

C) At any time before reaching the comatose state, an individual can revoke

 the directive. In other words, an individual may withdraw or alter an

 advance decision at any time when he/she has capacity to do so. Such

 withdrawal (including a partial withdrawal) need not be in writing. A

 directive must be revoked if the statements or actions subsequent to the

 written document indicate contrary consent.195

D) An advance decision will not be applicable to the treatment in question if  (a) at the material time, the person, who made it, did not have the capacity

 to give or refuse consent to it196; (b) the treatment is not the treatment

 specified in the advance decision197; (c) any circumstances specified in the

 advance decision are absent198; or (d) there are reasonable grounds for

 believing that circumstances exist which the person making the directive

 did not anticipate at the time of the advance decision and which would

 have affected his decision had he anticipated them.199

E) If a person intends specifically to refuse life-sustaining procedures200,

 he/she must  clearly indicate that it is to apply even if life is at risk and

 death will predictably result; put the decision in writing; and, ensure it is

 signed and witnessed. 195 Luis Kutner (Supra note 65), at page 228
196 Section 25(3), Mental Capacity Act 2005 (UK)
197 Section 25(4) (a), Mental Capacity Act 2005 (UK)
198 Section 25(4) (b), Mental Capacity Act 2005 (UK)
199 Section 25(4) (c), Mental Capacity Act 2005 (UK)
200 Section 25 (5) and (6), Mental Capacity Act 2005 (UK) 124 PART J

F) In the event that there is more than one valid Advance Directive, none of

 which have been revoked, the most recently signed Advance Directive will

 be considered as the last expression of the patient’s wishes and will be

 given effect. G) A person will not incur any liability for the consequences of withholding or

 withdrawing a treatment from an individual, if he, at the material time,

 reasonably believes that a valid advance decision applicable to the

 treatment, made by that individual, exists.201

H) An advance directive must clearly contain the following: (a) full details of its

 maker, including date of birth, home address and any distinguishing

 features; (b) the name and address of a general practitioner and whether

 they have a copy; (c) a statement that the document should be used if the

 maker lacks capacity to make treatment decisions; (d) a clear statement of

 the decision, the treatment to be refused and the circumstances in which

 the decision will apply; (d) the date the document was written (or

 reviewed); and, (e) the person’s signature and the signature of a

 witness.202

201 Section 26(3), Mental Capacity Act 2005 (UK)
202 Alexander Ruck Keene, “Advance Decisions: getting it right?”, available at
http://www.39essex.com/docs/articles/advance_decisions_paper_ark_december_2012.pdf 125 PART J

138 Advance directives also have limitations. Individuals may not fully

understand treatment options or recognize the consequences of certain

choices in the future. Sometimes, people change their minds after

expressing advance directives and forget to inform others. Another issue with

advance directives is that vague statements can make it difficult to understand

the course of action when a situation arises. For example, general statements

rejecting "heroic treatments" are vague and do not indicate whether you want

a particular treatment for a specific situation (such as antibiotics

for pneumonia after a severe stroke). On the other hand, very specific

directives for future care may not be useful when situations change in

unexpected ways. New medical therapies may also have become available

since an advance directive was given. Thus, advance directives should be

reviewed and revised regularly if feelings about certain issues change, so that

current wishes and decisions are always legally documented.

139 An important facet which a regime of advanced care directives must

factor in, is the existence of variables which affect the process. These

include, in our society, institutional aspects such as the paucity of access to

publicly funded Medicare, declining standards of professional ethics and the 126 PART J

inadequacy of institutional responses to the lack of professional accountability

in the medical profession. 140 A report submitted in October 2017 by the American Bar Association’s

Commission on Law and Ageing to the US Department of Health Services,

dwelt on several variables which bear upon advance directives. The following

observations provide an insight: 141 There are variables which “profoundly affect the experience of dying”

even in a developed society. They provide a sobering reflection of the gulf

which separates the needs of patients and the availability of services to the

poor, in a society like ours with large impoverished strata. Patient autonomy

may mean little to the impoverished citizen. For marginalised groups in urban

and rural India, even basic medical care is a distant reality. Advance directives

postulate the availability of medical care. For, it is on the hypothesis of such

 “Advance Directives And Advance Care Planning: Legal And Policy Issues”, U.S. Department of Health and 203 Human Services (October 2007), available at https://aspe.hhs.gov/system/files/pdf/75366/adacplpi.pdf, at page 1 127 PART J

care being available that the right to choose or refuse treatment is based. The

stark reality in our society is that medical facilities are woefully inadequate.

Primary medical care is a luxury in many places. Public hospitals are

overwhelmed by the gap between the demand for medical care and its supply.

Advance directives may have little significance to large segments of Indian

society which are denied access to basic care. Advance directives also

require an awareness of rights. The stark reality is that the average Indian is

deprived of even basic medical facilities in an environment where absence of

rudimentary care is the norm. Moreover, absolute notions of patient autonomy

need to be evaluated in the context of the Indian social structure where bonds

of family, religion and caste predominate. The immediate family and in many

situations, the larger unit of the extended family are caregivers. In the absence

of a social security net, universal medical coverage and compulsory

insurance, it is the family to which a patient turns to in distress. Families

become the caregivers, willingly or as a result of social conditioning, especially

in the absence of resources and alternative institutional facilities. The views of

the family which are drawn by close bonds of kinship have to be factored into

the process. At the other end of the spectrum, rising costs of medical care in

the urban areas threaten to ruin the finances of a family when a member is

struck by a serious illness. To them, advance directives may provide a

measure of assurance when a crucial decision as to whether to prolong

artificial support in an irreversible medical situation is to be taken. The fact that

the patient had expressed a desire in the form of an advance directive 128 PART K

obviates a sense of moral guilt on the part of the caregivers, when the family

accepts the doctors’ wisdom to withdraw or withhold artificial support. Another

important variable which a regime of advance directives must bear in mind is

the danger of misuse. The regime of advance directives which is intended to

secure patient autonomy must contain safeguards against the greed of

avaricious relatives colluding with willing medical professionals. The

safeguards must be robust to obviate the dangers. The complexities of culture

and of the social strata adverted to above only emphasise the wide diversity

that prevails within the country. Our solution must take into account the

diversity across the country. It is with the above background in view that we

have introduced a safeguard in the form of broad-based committees to

oversee the process. 142 In order to ensure clarity in the course of action to be followed I agree

with the guidelines contained in the judgment of the learned Chief Justice in

regard to Advance Directives as well as in regard to the procedural

mechanisms set up in the judgment. K Conclusion

143 The court is above all, engaged in the task of expounding the

Constitution. In doing so, we have been confronted with the enormous task of

finding substance and balance in the relationship between life, morality and

the experience of dying. The reason which has impelled the court to recognise 129 PART K

passive euthanasia and advance directives is that both bear a close

association to the human urge to live with dignity. Age brings isolation.

Physical and mental debility bring a loss of self worth. Pain and suffering are

accompanied by a sense of being helpless. The loss of control is compounded

when medical intervention takes over life. Human values are then lost to

technology. More significant than the affliction of ageing and disease is the

fear of our human persona being lost in the anonymity of an intensive care

ward. It is hence necessary for this court to recognise that our dignity as

citizens continues to be safeguarded by the Constitution even when life is

seemingly lost and questions about our own mortality confront us in the

twilight of existence. (i) The sanctity of human life is the arterial vein which animates the values,

 spirit and cellular structure of the Constitution. The Constitution recognises

 the value of life as its indestructible component. The survival of the

 sanctity principle is founded upon the guarantees of dignity, autonomy and

 liberty; (ii) The right to a dignified existence, the liberty to make decisions and

 choices and the autonomy of the individual are central to the quest to live

 a meaningful life. Liberty, dignity and autonomy are essential to the pursuit

 of happiness and to find meaning in human existence; 130 PART K (iii) The entitlement of each individual to a dignified existence necessitates

 constitutional recognition of the principle that an individual possessed of a

 free and competent mental state is entitled to decide whether or not to

 accept medical treatment. The right of such an individual to refuse medical

 treatment is unconditional. Neither the law nor the Constitution compel an

 individual who is competent and able to take decisions, to disclose the

 reasons for refusing medical treatment nor is such a refusal subject to the

 supervisory control of an outside entity; (iv) Constitutional recognition of the dignity of existence as an inseparable

 element of the right to life necessarily means that dignity attaches

 throughout the life of the individual. Every individual has a constitutionally

 protected expectation that the dignity which attaches to life must subsist

 even in the culminating phase of human existence. Dignity of life must

 encompass dignity in the stages of living which lead up to the end of life.

 Dignity in the process of dying is as much a part of the right to life under Article 21. To deprive an individual of dignity towards the end of life is to

 deprive the individual of a meaningful existence. Hence, the Constitution

 protects the legitimate expectation of every person to lead a life of dignity

 until death occurs; (v) The constitutionally recognised right to life is subject to the procedure

 established by law. The procedure for regulation or deprivation must, it is 131 PART K

 well-settled, be fair, just and reasonable. Criminal law imposes restraints

 and penal exactions which regulate the deprivation of life, or as the case

 may be, personal liberty. The intentional taking away of the life of another

 is made culpable by the Penal Code. Active euthanasia falls within the

 express prohibitions of the law and is unlawful; (vi) An individual who is in a sound and competent state of mind is entitled by

 means of an advance directive in writing, to specify the nature of medical

 intervention which may not be adopted in future, should he or she cease

 to possess the mental ability to decide. Such an advance directive is

 entitled to deference by the treating doctor. The treating doctor who, in a

 good faith exercise of professional medical judgment abides by an

 advance directive is protected against the burden of criminal liability; (vii) The decision by a treating doctor to withhold or withdraw medical

 intervention in the case of a patient in the terminal stage of illness or in a

 persistently vegetative state or the like where artificial intervention will

 merely prolong the suffering and agony of the patient is protected by the

 law. Where the doctor has acted in such a case in the best interest of the

 patient and in bona fide discharge of the duty of care, the law will protect

 the reasonable exercise of a professional decision; 132 PART K (viii) In Gian Kaur, the Constitution Bench held, while affirming the

 constitutional validity of Section 306 of the Penal Code (abetment of

 suicide), that the right to life does not include the right to die. Gian Kaur

 does not conclusively rule on the validity of passive euthanasia. The two

 Judge Bench decision in Aruna Shanbaug proceeds on an incorrect

 perception of Gian Kaur. Moreover, Aruna Shanbaug has proceeded on

 the basis of the act – omission distinction which suffers from incongruities

 of a jurisprudential nature. Aruna Shanbaug has also not dwelt on the

 intersection between criminal law and passive euthanasia, beyond

 adverting to Sections 306 and 309 of the Penal Code. Aruna Shanbaug

 has subordinated the interest of the patient to the interest of others

 including the treating doctors and supporting caregivers. The underlying

 basis of the decision in Aruna Shanbaug is flawed. Hence, it has become

 necessary for this Court in the present reference to revisit the issues

 raised and to independently arrive at a conclusion based on the

 constitutional position; (ix) While upholding the legality of passive euthanasia (voluntary and non-

 voluntary) and in recognising the importance of advance directives, the

 present judgment draws sustenance from the constitutional values of

 liberty, dignity, autonomy and privacy. In order to lend assurance to a

 decision taken by the treating doctor in good faith, this judgment has

 mandated the setting up of committees to exercise a supervisory role and 133 PART K

 function. Besides lending assurance to the decision of the treating doctors,

 the setting up of such committees and the processing of a proposed

 decision through the committee will protect the ultimate decision that is

 taken from an imputation of a lack of bona fides; and (x) The directions in regard to the regime of advance directives have been

 issued in exercise of the power conferred by Article 142 of the Constitution

 and shall continue to hold the field until a suitable legislation is enacted by

 Parliament to govern the area. 144 I agree with the directions proposed in the judgment of the learned

Chief Justice. 145 The reference shall stand disposed of in the above terms. …...............................................J
 [Dr D Y CHANDRACHUD]

New Delhi; March 9, 2018. 134 1 REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

 CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION

 WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO. 215 OF 2005

COMMON CAUSE (A REGISTERED SOCIETY) ... PETITIONER

 VERSUS

UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. ... RESPONDENTS

 J U D G M E N T

ASHOK BHUSHAN, J. I had advantage of going through the draft judgment

of   Hon'ble   the   Chief   Justice.   Though,   broadly   I

subscribe   to   the   views   expressed   by   Hon'ble   the   Chief

Justice on various principles and facets as expressed in

the   judgment,   but   looking   to   the   great   importance   of

issues involved, I have penned my reasons for my views

expressed.   However,   I   am   in   full   agreement   with   the

directions   and   safeguards   as   enumerated   by   Hon'ble   the

Chief Justice in Paras 191 to 194 of the Judgment with

regard to advance medical directives. I also had the benefit of going through the erudite

opinion of Dr. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, which expresses

almost   the   same   views   which   are   reflected   in   my

judgment. This   Constitution   Bench   has   been   constituted   on   a

reference   made   by   a   three­Judge   Bench   vide   its   order

dated   25th  February,   2014.   The   writ   petition   filed   in

public   interest   prayed   for   essentially   following   two

reliefs: (a) declare   'right   to   die     with   dignity'
 as   a   fundamental   right   within   the   fold   of
 Right to Live with dignity guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India; (b) issue   direction   to   the   Respondent,   to
 adopt suitable procedures,   in consultation
 with   State   Governments   where   necessary,   to
 ensure  that   persons     of   deteriorated
 health or  terminally   ill  should  be   able
 to   execute   a   document   titled   “MY   LIVING
 WILL & ATTORNEY AUTHORISATION” which can be
 presented   to   hospital   for   appropriate
 action   in   event   of   the   executant   being
 admitted to the hospital with   serious
 illness which may threaten  termination   of
 life  of  the  executant  or  in   the
 alternative,   issue   appropriate   guidelines
 to this effect;” 3 2. Petitioner   in   support   of   writ   petition   has   placed

reliance on Constitution Bench judgment in Gian Kaur Vs.

State of Punjab , (1996) 2 SCC 648  as well as two­Judge

Bench   judgment   in Aruna   Ramachandra   Shanbaug   Vs.   Union

of India & Ors. , (2011) 4 SCC 454.  Petitioner's case is

that this Court in the above two judgments has although

disapproved   active   euthanasia   but   has   granted   its

approval   to   passive   euthanasia.  The   three­Judge   Bench

after referring to paragraphs 24 and 25 of Constitution

Bench judgment observed that Constitution Bench did not

express   any   binding   view   on   the   subject   of   euthanasia

rather   reiterated   that   legislature   would   be   the

appropriate   authority   to   bring   the   change. Three­Judge

Bench further observed that view of two Judge Bench in

Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug   that the  Constitution Bench

in Gian Kaur has approved the judgment of House of Lords

in Airedale NHS Trust Vs. Bland, (1993) 1 All ER 821, is

not   correct   and   further   opinion   expressed   by   two­Judge

Bench   judgment   in   paragraphs   101   and     104   is

inconsistent. In the above view of the matter the three­

Judge   Bench   made   the   reference   to   the   Constitution 4 Bench. It is useful to extract paragraphs 17, 18 and 19

of the referring order which is to the following effect: 3. We have heard Shri Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel

appearing   for   the   petitioner.   Shri   P.S.   Narasimha,

learned   Additional   Solicitor   General   appearing   for   the

Union   of   India.   Shri   Arvind   Datar,   learned   senior

counsel   for   Vidhi  Centre   for   Legal   Policy,   Shri   Sanjay

R.   Hegde,  learned  senior   counsel   for   Indian   Society   of 5 Critical   Care   Medicine,   Mr.   Devansh   A.   Mohta,   learned

counsel   for   Society   for   Right   to   Die   with   Dignity   and

Mr.   Praveen   Khattar,   learned   counsel   for   Delhi   Medical

Council. We have also been assisted by Dr. R.R. Kishore

Member of the Bar who has joined the Bar after carrying

on the profession of doctor for more than 40 years.

A. PETITIONER'S CASE 4. The   petitioner   is   a   registered   society     which   is

engaged in taking of the common problems of the people.

The   petitioner   vide   this   public   interest   litigation

brings to the notice of this Court the serious problem

of   violation   of   fundamental   right   to   life,   liberty,

privacy and the right to die with dignity of the people

of this country, guaranteed to them under Article 21 of

the   Constitution   of   India.   It   is   submitted   that   the

citizens who are suffering from chronic diseases and/or

are at the end of their natural life span and are likely

to   go   into   a   state   of   terminal   illness   or   permanent

vegetative state are deprived of their rights to refuse

cruel   and   unwanted   medical   treatment,   like   feeding 6 through   hydration   tubes,   being   kept   on   ventilator   and

other life supporting machines in order to artificially

prolong their natural life span. This sometimes leads to

extension   of   pain   and   agony   both   physical   and   mental

which they desperately seek to end by making an informed

choice   and   clearly   expressing   their   wishes   in   advance,

(called a living will) in the event of they going into a

state when it will not be possible for them to express

their wishes. 5. The   petitioner   further   pleads   that   it   is   a   common

law   right   of   the   people,   of   any   civilised   country,   to

refuse   unwanted   medical   treatment   and   no   person   can

force   him/her   to   take   any   medical   treatment   which   the

person does not desire to continue with. It is submitted

that to initiate a medical treatment to a person who has

reached at an end of his life and the process of his/her

death  has  already  commenced   against   the   wishes   of  that

person   will   be   violative   of   his/her   right   to   liberty.

The   right   to   be   free   from   unwanted   life­sustaining

medical   treatment   is   a   right   protected   by Article   21. Even the right to privacy which has also been held to be 7 a part of right to life is being violated as the people

are not being given any right to make an informed choice

and a personal decision about withholding or withdrawing

life sustaining medical treatment. B. MAN & MEDICINE 6. Human   being   a   mortal,   death   is   an   accepted

phenomenon.   Anyone   born   on   the   earth   is   sure   to   die.

Human   body   is   prone   to   disease   and   decay.   Human   being

after   getting   knowledge   of   various   science   and   art

always   fought   with   failure   and   shortcomings   of   human

body.   Various   ways   and   means   of   healing   its   body   were

found and invented by mankind. The branch of medicine is

practiced   from   ancient   time   both   in   India   and   other

parts of the World. In our country “Charak Samhita” is a

treatise of medicine which dates back 1000 BC. 7. In   Western   World   “Hippocrates”   is   regarded   as

“father   of   western   medicine”.   Hippocratic   period   dates

from   460   BC.   “Corpus   Hippocraticum”   comprises   of   not

only   general   medical   prescription,   description   of

diseases,   diagnosis,   dietary   recommendations   but   also 8 opinion   of   professional   ethics   of   a   physician.     Thus,

those   who   practiced   medicine   from   ancient   time   were

ordained   to   follow   some   ethical   principles.   For   those

who   follow   medical   profession   'Hippocratic   Oath'   was

always   treated   to   be   Oath   to   which   every   medical

professional was held to be bound. It is useful to refer

to   original   Hippocratic   Oath,   (as   translated   into

English): 8. The   noticeable   portion   of   the   Hippocratic   Oath   is

that medical practitioner swears that he will not give a

lethal drug to anyone nor he will advise such a plan. 9. At   this   juncture,   it   shall   be   useful   to   refer   to

thoughts   of   Plato,   a   celebrated   Greek   Philosopher,   on

“physician”   and   treatment   which   he   expressed   in   his

treatise   'Republic'.   Plato   in   “The   Republic   of   Plato”,

(translated   by   Francis   Macdonald   Cornford)   while

discussing “physician”, in Chapter IX states: 10 10. Plato   in   the   same   Chapter   in   little   harsher   words

further states: 11.  From what has been noted above, it is apparent that

although   on   one   hand   medical   professional   has   to   take

Hippocratic   Oath   that   he   shall   treat   his   patient

according to his ability and judgment and never do harm

to anyone. Further, he will not give any lethal drug to 11 anyone    even   he  is  asked  for,  on  the   other   hand  Plato

held   that   those   who   has   sickly   constitution   and

intemperate     habits   should   not   be   helped   by   medicine.

Thus,   the   cleavage   in   views   regarding   ethics   of   a

medical   professional   as   well   as   not   supporting   medical

treatment for those who are thoroughly diseased is found

from ancient time in Greek thoughts itself. 12. The dilemma of medical professional still continues

to   this   day   and   medical   professionals   are   hesitant   in

adopting   a   course   which   may   not   support   the   life   of   a

patient   or   lead   to   patient's   death.   Numerous   cases

raising conflicting views were brought before the Courts

in   the   different   parts   of   the   World,   some   of   which   we

shall refer hereinafter. 13. There   has   been   considerable   development   in   medical

science   from   ancient   time   to   this   day.   There   has   been

substantial   acceptance   of   natural   and   human   rights   of

the   human   beings   which   found   expression   in   “United

Nations   Human   Rights   Declaration,   1948”   and   subsequent

declarations.   The   right   of   self­determination   of   an 12 individual has been recognised throughout the World.

C. CONCEPT OF LIFE & DEATH 14. In the ancient India, on 'life' and 'death' there is

considerable   literature.   According   to   Hinduism,   life

never comes to an end. The soul never die although body

may decay. The soul is continuous and perpetual which is

not merely a biological identity, death is not the end

of   life   but   only   a   transformation   of   a   body.   In

“Bhagavad­gita”   Chapter   II   Verse   22   (as   translated   in

English), it is stated by Lord Krishna: 15. The death was never feared in ancient Indian culture

and   mythology.   Death   was   treated   sometimes   a   means   to

obtain liberation that is 'moksha'. Every life is a gift

of   God   and   sacred   and   it   has   to   be   protected   at   all

cost. No person is bestowed with the right to end his or

her   life.   However,   an   individual's   act   of   discarding

mortal   body   may   be   permissible   under   certain 13 circumstances. In ancient Indian religion, sanctity was

attached to a Yogi (a person who has mastered the art of

regulating   his   involuntary   physical   and   mental

functions,   at   will)   can   discard   his/her   mortal

coil(body)   through   the   process   of   higher   spiritual

practices   called   yoga.     Such   state   was   known   as

'Samadhi'.   But   there   was   no   concept   in   ancient

India/mythology   of   putting   an   end   to   life   of   another

human   being   which   was   always   regarded   as   crime   and

against 'dharma'. 16. The   Vedic   Rules   also   forbid   suicide   whereas

according to ancient hindu culture, a man in his fourth

stage,   i.e.,   Vanaprastha   could   go   into   the   forest

sustaining   only   on   water   and   air,   end   his   body.   A

Brahmin also could have got rid of his body by drowning

oneself in a river, precipitating oneself from a mount,

burning oneself or starving oneself to death; or by one

of   those   modes   of   practising   austerities,   mentioned

above. The Laws of Manu as contained in  Sacred Books of

the   East,   Edited   by   Max   Muller,   Volume   25   Chapter   VI

verses 31 and 32 refers to above. The Book also refers 14 to   views   of   various   commentators   on   verses   31   and   32.

It is useful to extract verses 31 and 32 and Note of the

author   on   aforesaid   verses   containing   the   views   of

different   commentators   which   are   to   the   following

effect: The   antiquity   and   general   prevalence   of   the
 practice may be inferred from the fact that
 the   Gaina   ascetics,   too,   consider   it
 particularly meritorious. 32.   By   one   of   those   modes,'   i.e.   drowning
 oneself   in   a   river,   precipitating   oneself
 from   a   mount,   burning   oneself   or   starving
 oneself   to   death'   (Medh.);   or   'by   one   of
 those   modes   of   practising   austerities,
 mentioned   above,   verse   23'   (Gov.,   Kull.,
 Nar.,   Nand.).   Medh.   adds   a   long   discussion,
 trying to prove that the world of Brahman,'
 which the ascetic thus gains, is not the real
 complete liberation.” 17. The Hindu Sculpture also says that life and death is

the   gift   of   God   and   no   human   being   has   right   to   take

away the said gift.  The suicide is disapproved in Hindu

way   of   life   and   it   is   believed   that   those   who   commit

suicide   did   not   attain   Moksha   or   Salvation   from   the

cycle of life and death. 18. The   Muslims   also   strongly   condemn   suicide   as   they

believe   that   life   and   death   of   a   person   depends   on

Allah’s   will   and   human   beings   are   prohibited   in   going

against HIS will. 19. Christianity   also   disapprove   taking   of   one’s   life.

Bible says that human being is a temple of God and the

spirit of God dwelleth in the body and no man can defile

the   temple.     Reference   is   made   to   Chapter   3   verses   16 16 and 17 of I CORINTHIA NS , which is as below:­

 “16.  Know Ye not that ye are the temple of
 God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in
 you? 17.   If any man defile  the temple of  God,
 him   shall   God   destroy;   for   the   temple   of
 God is holy, which temple ye are.” 20. Pope   John   Paul   II  in,   “The   Gospel   of   Life”,

denouncing euthanasia writes: 21. The tenets of Jainism also talks about the practice

of   religiously   nominated   self­build   death   called

“Sallkhana”, meaning 'fast upto death'. 22. The Buddhist sculpture states that Lord Buddha had

also   allowed   self­build   death   for   the   extremely   ill

person as an act of compassion. 23. In different religions and cultures, there are clear

injunctions against taking life of oneself. 24. The   petitioner   in   the   Writ   Petition   has

categorically   clarified   that   petitioner   is   neither

challenging   the   provisions   of I.P.C .   by   which   “attempt

to suicide” is made a penal offence nor praying right to

die   be   declared   as   fundamental   right   under Article   21. It is useful to refer to Para 7 of the Writ Petition, in

which petitioner pleads following:­

 “It   is   submitted   at   the   outset   that   the
 petitioner   in   the   instant   petition   is
 neither   challenging   the Section   309 of
 Indian   Penal   Code,   vide   which   Attempt   to
 Suicide   is   a   penal   offence   nor   is   asking
 right to die per se as a fundamental right
 under Article 21 (as the issue is squarely
 covered   by   the   Constitution   Bench   judgment
 of   this   Hon’ble   Court   in   the   case   of Gian
 Kaur   vs.   State   of   Punjab and   in   other
 connected   matters,   (1996)   2   SCC   648. The
 endeavour of the  Petitioner in the  instant
 petition   is   to   seek   guidelines   from   this
 Hon’ble   Court   whereby   the   people   who   are
 diagnosed   of   suffering   from   terminal 18 diseases   or   ailments   can   execute   Living
 Will   or   give   directives   in   advance   or
 otherwise   to   his/her   attorney/executor   to
 act   in   a   specific   manner   in   the   event
 he/she   goes   into   persistent   vegetative
 state or coma owing to that illness or due
 to some other reason.”

D. THE RELEVANT PROVISIONS OF IPC 25. The Indian Penal Code , 1860, is a general penal code

defining   various   acts   which   are   offence   and   providing

for punishment thereof. Chapter XVI deals with “offences

affecting   the   human   body”.   The   provisions   of Indian

Penal Code which are relevant in the present context are

Section   306   and   Section   309.   Section   306   relates   to

abetment of suicide. It provides “if any person commits

suicide,   whoever   abets   the   commission   of   such   suicide,

shall   be   punished   with   imprisonment   of   either

description   for   a   term   which   may   extend   to   ten   years,

and   shall   also   be   liable   to   fine”.   Another   provision

which is relevant is Section 309 i.e. attempt to commit

suicide.   The   provision   states,   whoever   attempts   to

commit   suicide   and   does   any   act   towards   the   commission

of   such   offence,   shall   be   punished   with   simple 19 imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year (or

with fine, or with both). The issues which have come up

for consideration in the present case have to be dealt

with   keeping   in   view   the   above   provisions   of Indian

Penal Code which declares certain acts to be offence.

E. LEGISLATION IN REFERENCE TO EUTHANASIA 26. The   only   statutory   provision   in   our   country   which

refers   to   euthanasia   is   statutory   regulations   framed

under Indian   Medical   Council   Act,   1956 ,   namely   The

Indian   Medical   Council   (Professional   Conduct,   Etiquette

&   Ethics)   Regulations,   2002.   Chapter   VI   of   the

Regulations deals with “Unethical Acts”. Regulation 6 is

to the following effect: 27. The Law Commission of India had stated and submitted

a   detailed   report   on   the   subject   in   196th  report   on

“Medical   Treatment   to   Terminally   Ill   Patients

(Protection of Patients and Medical Practitioners)”. Law

Commission   examined   various   provisions   of Indian   Penal

Code and   other   statutory   provisions,   judgments   of   this

court   and   different   courts   of   other   countries   and   had

made certain recommendations. A draft bill was also made

part   of   the   recommendation.   Draft   bill   namely   Medical

Treatment   to   Terminally   Ill   Patients   (Protection   of

Patients and Medical Practitioners) Bill, 2006, was made

part of the report as an Annexure. 28. Chapter   8   of   the   report   contains   summary   of

recommendations.   It   is   not   necessary   to   reproduce   all

the recommendations. It is sufficient to refer to para 1 21 and 2 of the recommendations: It   is   also   necessary   to  protect   doctors
 (and  those  who act  under  their  directions)
 who   obey   the   competent   patient’s   informed
 decision   or   who,   in   the   case   of   (i)
 incompetent   patients   or   (ii)   competent
 patients   whose   decisions   are   not   informed
 decisions,   and   decide   that   in   the   best
 interests   of   such   patients,   the   medical
 treatment needs to be withheld or withdrawn
 as   it   is   not   likely   to   serve   any   purpose. Such actions of doctors must be declared by
 statute to be ‘lawful’ in order to protect
 doctors   and   those   who   act   under   their
 directions   if   they   are   hauled   up   for   the
 offence   of   ‘abetment   of   suicide’   under sections 305 , 306 of the Indian Penal Code,
 1860,   or   for   the   offence   of   culpable
 homicide   not   amounting   to   murder   under
 section   299   read   with   section   304   of   the
 Penal Code, 1860 or in actions under civil
 law. 2)Parliament   is   competent   to   make   such   a
 law   under   Entry   26   of   List   III   of   the
 Seventh   Schedule   of   the   Constitution   of
 India   in   regard   to   patients   and   medical
 practitioners.   The   proposed   law,   in   our
 view,  should   be     called     ‘The     Medical
 Treatment   of   Terminally   Ill   Patients
 (Protection   of   Patients,   Medical
 Practitioners) Act.” 29. The   196th  Report   was   again   revised   by   the   Law 23 Commission of India in  241st  Report dated August, 2012.

The   2006   draft   bill   was   redrafted   by   Law   Commission

which   was   Annexure   1   to   the   report.   The   above   bill

however   could   not   fructify   in   a   law.   The   Ministry   of

health   and   family   welfare   had   published   another   draft

bill   namely   The   Medical   Treatment   of   Terminally   Ill

Patients   (Protection   of   Patients   &   Medical

Practitioners)   Bill,   2016,   as   a   private   member   bill

which was introduced in Rajya Sabha on 5 th  August 2016,

which is still pending. 30. From   the   above,   it   is   clear   that   only   statutory

provision   on   euthanasia   is   regulation   6.7   of   the   2002

Regulations as referred above . The regulations prohibit

practicing   euthanasia   and   declare   that   practicing

euthanasia constitute unethical conduct on behalf of the

medical   practitioner.   The   regulation   however   carves   an

exception   that   on   specific   occasion,   the   question   of

withdrawing   supporting   devices   to   sustain   cardio­

pulmonary   function   even   after   brain   death,   shall   be

decided only by a team of doctors and not merely by the

treating   physician   alone.   The   regulation   further 24 provides   that   team   of   doctors   shall   declare   withdrawal

of support system. 31. The   withdrawal   of   medical   treatment   of   terminally

ill   Persons   is   complex   ethical,   moral  and  social   issue

with   which   many   countries   have   wrestled   with   their

attempt to introduce a legal framework for end of life

decision   making.   In   absence   of   a   comprehensive   legal

framework on the subject the issue has to be dealt with

great caution. F.  TWO   IMPORTANT   JUDGMENTS   OF   THIS   COURT   ON   THE  
 SUBJECT:­ 32. The   first   important   judgment   delivered   by   the

Constitution Bench of this court touching the subject is

the   judgment   of   Constitution   Bench   in Gian   Kaur   Vs.

State   of   Punjab ,   (1996)   2   SCC   648.  In the   above   case ,

the   appellants   were   convicted   under   Section   306   and

awarded   sentence   for   abetment   of   commission   of   suicide

by   one   Kulwant   Kaur.   The   conviction   was   maintained   by

the   High   Court   against   which   the   appeal   was   filed   as

special   leave   in   this   Court.   One   of   the   grounds   for 25 assailing   the   conviction   before   this   Court   was   that Section   306 IPC   is   unconstitutional. The  reliance   was

placed   on   two­Judge   Bench   decision   of   this   court   in P.Rathinam Vs. Union of India & Anr. , (1994) 3 SCC 394,

wherein Section 309 IPC was held to be unconstitutional

as violative of Article 21 of the Constitution. 33. Section   306   was   sought   to   be   declared   as

unconstitutional   being   violative   of Article   21 of   the

Constitution. The Law Commission by its 22nd  report had

recommended for deletion of Section 309 and a Bill was

introduced   in   1972   to   amend   the Indian   Penal   Code by

deleting   Section   309.   The   Constitution   Bench   dwelt   the

question   as   to   whether   ‘right   to   die’   is   included   in Article 21. The Constitution Bench concluded that ‘right

to   die’   “cannot   be   included   as   part   of   fundamental

rights guaranteed under Article 21”. 34. The   challenge   to   section   309   on   the   basis   of Articles 14 and 21 was repelled. This court further held

that Section 306 of Indian Penal Code does not violate Article 21 and Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 26 35. The   second   judgment   which   needs   to   be   noted   in

detail   is   two­Judge   Bench   judgment   of   this   court   in Aruna   Ramachandra   Shanbaug   Vs.   Union   of   India   &   Ors. ,

(2011)   4   SCC   454.   Writ   Petition   under Article   32 on

behalf   of   Aruna   Ramachandra   Shanbaug   was   filed   by   one

M/s.   Pinky   Virani   claiming   to   be   best   friend.   Aruna

Ramachandra   Shanbaug   was   staff   nurse   working   in   King

Edward   Memorial   (KEM)   Hospital,   Parel,  Mumbai.   On

27.11.1973,   she   was   attacked   by   a   sweeper   of   the

hospital   who   wrapped   a   dog   chain   around   her   neck   and

yanked   her   back   with   it.   While   sodomising   her,   he

twisted the chain around her neck, as a result supply of

oxygen to the brain stopped and the brain got damaged.

On the next day she was found in unconscious condition.

From the date of above incident she continued to be in

persistent   vegetative   state(PVS)   having   no   state   of

awareness,   she   was   bed­ridden,   unable   to   express

herself,   unable   to   think,   hear   and   see   anything   or

communicate   in   any   manner.   In   writ   petition   under Article 32 it was prayed that the hospital where she is

laying for last 36 years be directed to stop feeding and 27 let   her   die   peacefully.   In the   above   case ,   Two­Judge

Bench   considered   all   aspects   of   euthanasia,   the   court

examined   both   active   and   passive   euthanasia.   Dealing

with active and passive euthanasia and further voluntary

and involuntarily euthanasia, following was laid down in para 39 and 40: However,   the   decision   should   be   taken
 bona  fide in  the  best interest  of the
 patient. In   the   present   case,   we   have
 already   noted   that   Aruna   Shanbaug’s
 parents   are   dead   and   other   close
 relatives   are   not   interested   in   her
 ever   since   she   had   the   unfortunate
 assault on her. As already noted above,
 it is the KEM hospital staff, who have
 been   amazingly   caring   for   her   day   and
 night   for   so   many   long   years,   who 31 really   are   her   next   friends,   and   not
Ms.   Pinki   Virani   who   has   only   visited
her on few occasions and written a book
on   her.   Hence   it   is   for   the   KEM
Hospital   staff   to   take   that   decision. KEM   Hospital   staff   have   clearly
expressed   their   wish   that   Aruna
Shanbaug should be allowed to live. Mr.   Pallav   Shishodia,   learned
Senior Counsel, appearing for the Dean,
KEM   Hospital,   Mumbai,   submitted   that
Ms. Pinki Virani has no locus standi in
this   case.   In   our   opinion   it   is   not
necessary   for   us   to   go   into   this
question   since   we   are   of   the   opinion
that  it  is  the  KEM  Hospital  staff who
is   really   the   next   friend   of   Aruna
Shanbaug. We   do   not   mean   to   decry   or
disparage   what   Ms.   Pinki   Virani   has
done.   Rather,   we   wish   to   express   our
appreciation   of   the   splendid   social
spirit  she  has  shown. We  have seen  on
the   internet   that   she   has   been
espousing   many   social   causes,   and   we
hold   her   in   high   esteem.   All   that   we
wish   to   say   is   that   however   much   her
interest   in   Aruna   Shanbaug   may   be   it
cannot match the involvement of the KEM
Hospital   staff   who   have   been   taking
care   of   Aruna   day   and   night   for   38
years. However,   assuming   that   the   KEM
Hospital   staff   at   some   future   time
changes   its   mind,   in   our   opinion   in
such   a   situation   KEM   Hospital   would
have to apply to the Bombay High Court
for   approval   of   the   decision   to
withdraw life support. (ii) Hence,  even  if  a decision is  taken  by
 the   near   relatives   or   doctors   or   next
 friend to withdraw life support, such a
 decision   requires   approval   from   the
 High   Court   concerned   as laid   down   in Airedale case. In our opinion, this is even more
 necessary   in   our   country   as   we   cannot
 rule   out   the   possibility   of   mischief
 being   done   by   relatives   or   others   for
 inheriting   the   property   of   the
 patient.”

G. LAW ON SUBJECT IN OTHER COUNTRIES 39. The   debate   on   Euthanasia   had   gathered   momentum   in

last   100   years.   The   laws   of   different   countries

expresses thoughts of people based on different culture,

philosophy and social conditions.   Assisted suicide was

always treated as an offence in most of the countries.

Physician assisted suicide is also not accepted in most

of the countries except in few where it gain ground in

last  century.  In several countries including different

States of U.S.A., European Countries and United Kingdom,

various legislations have come into existence codifying

different   provisions   pertaining   to   physician   assisted

suicide.   The right to not commence or withdraw medical 33 treatment   in   case   of   terminally   ill   or   PSV   patients,

advance   medical   directives   have   also   been  made   part   of

different legislations in different countries. 40. Physician assisted suicide has not been accepted by

many countries.   However, few have accepted it and made

necessary   legislation   to   regulate   it.   Switzerland,

Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, and American States of

Oregan,   Washington,   Montana   and   Columbia   has   permitted

physician   assisted   suicide   with   statutory   regulations.

Courts in different parts of the world have dealt with

the subject in issue in detail.  It is not necessary to

refer   to   different   legislation   of   different   countries

and the case law on subject of different countries.  For

the   purposes   of   this   case,   it   shall   be   sufficient   to

notice   few   leading   cases   of   United   Kingdom,   United

States Supreme Court and few others countries.

United Kingdom 41. Euthanasia   is   criminal   offence   in   the   United

Kingdom.   According to Section 2(1) of the Suicide Act,

1961, a person assisting an individual, who wish to die 34 commits an offence. The provision states that it is an

offence to aid, abet, counsel or procure the suicide of

another   or   an   attempt   by   another   to   commit   suicide,

however, it is not a crime if it is by their own hands.

There   has   been   large   parliamentary   opposition   to   the

current   United   Kingdom   Law   concerning   assisted   suicide

but there has been no fundamental change in the law so

far.  In 1997, the Doctor Assisted Dying Bill as well as

in   2000,   the   Medical   Treatment   (Prevention   of

Euthanasia) Bill were not approved.  The most celebrated

judgment of the House of Lords is  Airedale N.H.S. Trust

Vs. Bland, (1993) A.C. 789. 42. Anthony David Bland was injured on 15 th  April, 1989

at   the   Hillsborough   football   ground   in   which   his   lungs

were crushed and punctured, the supply of oxygen to the

brain   was   interrupted.   As   a   result,   he   sustained

catastrophic   and   irreversible   damage   to   the   higher

centres of the brain, which had left him in a condition

known as a persistent vegetative state(P.V.S.). Medical

opinion   was   unanimous   that   there   was   no   hope   of

improvement   in   his   condition   or   recovery.   At   no   time 35 before the disaster had the patient indicated his wishes

if he should find himself in such a condition. Bland's

father sought declarations that Hospital authorities may

discontinue   all   his   life­sustaining   treatment   and

medical   support   measures   and   further   lawfully

discontinue   and   thereafter   need   not   furnish   medical

treatment to the patient except for the sole purpose of

enabling the patient to end his life and die peacefully

with   the   greatest   dignity   and   the   least   of   pain,

suffering and distress. 43. The lower court granted the declarations sought for.

The court of appeal upheld the order. Official Solicitor

filed   an   appeal   before   the   House   of   Lords.    Lord   Goff

held that it is not lawful for a doctor to administer a

drug   to   his   patient   to   bring   about   his   death,   even

though that course is prompted by a humanitarian desire

to end his suffering. Such act is actively causing death

i.e.   euthanasia   which   is   not   lawful.     It   was   further

held that a case in which doctor decides not to provide

or   continue   to   provide   treatment   or   care,   it   may   be

lawful. Following was stated by Lord Goff: though   in   such   circumstances   especial   care
may   be   necessary   to   ensure   that   the   prior
refusal of consent is still properly to be
regarded as applicable in the circumstances
which   have   subsequently   occurred:   see,
e.g., In re T.(Adult: Refusal of Treatment)
(1993) Fam.95. I wish to add that, in cases
of this kind, there is   no question of the
patient   having   committed   suicide,   nor
therefore   of   the   doctor   having   aided   or
abetted him in doing so. It is simply that
the   patient   has,   as   he   is   entitled   to   do, 37 declined   to   consent   to   treatment   which
might   or   would   have   the   effect   of
prolonging his life, and the doctor has, in
accordance with his duty, complied with his
patient's wishes................ I must however stress, at this point, that
the law draws a crucial distinction between
cases   in   which   a   doctor   decides   not   to
provide, or to continue to provide, for his
patient   treatment   or   care   which   could   or
might prolong his life, and those in which
he decides, for example by administering a
lethal   drug,   actively   to   bring   his
patient's life to an end. As I have already
indicated, the former may be lawful, either
because the doctor is giving effect to his
patient's   wishes   by   withholding   the
treatment   or   care,   or   even   in   certain
circumstances in which (on principles which
I   shall   describe)   the   patient   is
incapacitated   from   stating   whether   or   not
he gives his consent. But it is not lawful
for   a   doctor   to   administer   a   drug   to   his
patient   to   bring   about   his   death,   even
though   that   course   is   prompted   by   a
humanitarian   desire   to   end   his   suffering,
however   great   that   suffering   may   be:   see
Reg.   v.   Cox   (unreported),   18   September,
1992.   So   to   act   is   to   cross   the   Rubicon
which runs between on the one hand the care
of the living patient and on the other hand
euthanasia­actively   causing   his   death   to
avoid   or   to   end   his   suffering.   Euthanasia
is   not   lawful   at   common   law.   It   is   of
course   well   known   that   there   are   many
responsible   members   of   our   society   who
believe   that   euthanasia   should   be   made
lawful;   but   that   result   could,   I   believe,
only   be   achieved   by   legislation   which
expresses   the   democratic   will   that   so
fundamental a change should be made in our 38 law, and can, if enacted, ensure that such
 legalised   killing   can   only   be   carried   out
 subject   to   appropriate   supervision   and
 control..................................

 At   the   heart   of   this   distinction   lies   a
 theoretical   question.   Why   is   it   that   the
 doctor   who   gives   his   patient   a   lethal
 injection   which   kills   him   commits   an
 unlawful   act   and   indeed   is   guilty   of
 murder,   whereas   a   doctor   who,   by
 discontinuing   life   support,   allows   his
 patient   to   die,   may   not   act   unlawfully   –
 and will not do so, if he commits no breach
 of duty to his patient ?” 44. Lord   Browne­Wilkinson  in   his   judgment   noticed   the

following questions raised in the matter: 45. Another judgment which needs to be noticed is Ms. B

Vs. An NHS Hospital Trust, 2002 EWHC 429.  The claimant,

Ms.   B   has   sought   declaration   from   the   High   Court   that

the invasive treatment which is currently being given by

the   respondent   by   way   of   artificial   ventilation   is   an

unlawful trespass. The main issue raised in the case is

as   to   whether   Ms.   B   has   the   capacity   to   make   her   own 40 decision about her treatment in hospital. Ms. B, aged 43

years,   had   suffered   a   devastating   illness   which   has

caused   her   to   become   tetraplegic   and   whose   expressed

wish is not to be kept artificially alive by the use of

a   ventilator.   The   High   Court   in   the   above   context

examined   several   earlier   cases   on   the   principle   of

autonomy.     Paragraphs   16   to   22   are   to   the   following

effect: In  Cruzan   v   Director,   Missouri   Department
 of Health (1990) 110 S. Ct 2841, the United
 States Supreme Court stated that: 46. The   judgment   of   House   of   Lords   in  Regina   (Pretty)

Vs. Director of Public Prosecutions (Secretary of State 43 for   the   Home   Department   intervening),(2002)   1   AC   800,

also needs to be referred to. The claimant, who suffered

from   a   progressive   and   degenerative   terminal   illness,

faced   the   imminent   prospect   of   a   distressing   and

humiliating death. She was mentally alert and wished to

control   the   time   and   manner   of   her   dying   but   her

physical disabilities prevented her from taking her life

unaided. She wished her husband to help her and he was

willing   to   do   so   provided   that   in   the   event   of   his

giving such assistance he would not be prosecuted under

Section   2(1)   of   the   Suicide   Act,   1961.   The   claimant

accordingly   requested   the   Director   of   Public

Prosecutions   to   undertake  that   he  would   not   consent   to

such a prosecution under Section 2(4) . On his refusal to

give   that   undertaking   the   claimant,   in   reliance   on

rights   guaranteed   by   the   European   Convention   for   the

Protection   of   Human   Rights   and   Fundamental   Freedoms   as Schedule to the Human Rights Act, 1998 , sought relief by

way of judicial review. 47. The Divisional Court of the Queen's Bench Division

concluded   that   the   Director   has   no   power   to   give   an 44 undertaking and dismissed the claim. The House of Lords

again   reiterated   the   distinction   between   the   cessation

of   life­saving   or   life­prolonging   treatment   on   the   one

hand   and   the   taking   of   action   intended   solely   to

terminate   life   on   the   other.   In   paragraph   9   of   the

judgment following was held: United States of America 48. The   State   of   New   York   in   1828   enacted   a   statute

declaring assisted suicide as a crime. New York example

was followed by different other States. 49. Cardozo, J., about a century ago in Schloendroff Vs.

Society   of   New   York   Hospital,   211   N.Y.   125,  while   in

Court   of   Appeal   had   recognised   the   right   of   self­

determination by every adult human being. Following was

held: 50. Supreme Court of United States of America in  Nancy

Beth Cruzan Vs. Director, Missouri Department of Health,

497   U.W.   261,    had   occasion   to   consider   a   case   of

patient   who   was   in   persistent   vegetative   state,   her

guardian brought a declaratory judgment seeking judicial

sanction to terminate artificial hydration and nutrition

of patient. The Supreme Court recognised right possessed

by   every   individual   to   have   control   over   own   person.

Following was held by Rehnquist, CJ: “Right to life” is a natural right embodied
 in Article   21 but   suicide   is   an   unnatural
 termination   or   extinction   of   life   and,
 therefore,   incompatible   and   inconsistent
 with the concept of “right to life”.....” (ii)“....The   “right   to   life”   including   the
 right to live with human dignity would mean
 the existence of such a right up to the end
 of   natural   life.   This   also   includes   the
 right   to   a   dignified   life   up   to   the   point
 of death including a dignified procedure of
 death. In other words, this may include the
 right   of   a   dying   man   to   also   die   with
 dignity   when   his   life   is   ebbing   out.   But
 the “right to die” with dignity at the end
 of   life   is   not   to   be   confused   or   equated
 with the “right to die” an unnatural death
 curtailing the natural span of life.” 67. We   have   noticed   above   that   in   Para   17,   this   Court

had observed that reference to euthanasia cases tends to

befog   the   real   issue   and   further   in   Para   40,   it   was

observed that “even though it is not necessary to deal

with   physician   assisted   suicide   or   euthanasia   cases”;

the   Constitution   Bench   has   neither   considered   the

concept   of   euthanasia   nor   has   laid   down   any   ratio

approving euthanasia. 68. At best, the Constitution Bench noted a difference

between cases in which physician decides not to provide 66 or to continue to provide for medical treatment or care

and those cases where he decides to administer a lethal

drug activity to bring his patient’s life to an end. The

judgment   of   House   of   Lords   in  Airedale’s   case   (supra)

was   referred   to   and   noted   in   the   above   context.   The

Airedale’s   case   (supra)  was   cited   on   behalf   of   the

appellant in support of the contention that in said case

the withdrawal of life saving treatment was held not to

be unlawful. 69. We agree with the observation made in the reference

order   of   the   three­Judge   Bench   to   the   effect   that   the

Constitution   Bench   did   not   express   any   binding   view   on

the subject of euthanasia.  We hold that no binding view

was   expressed  by   the   Constitution  Bench   on   the   subject

of Euthanasia. I.  CONCEPT OF EUTHANASIA 70. Euthanasia   is   derived   from   the   Greek   words

euthanatos;  eu  means   well   or   good   and  thanatos  means

death.  New   Webster's   Dictionary   (Deluxe   Encyclopedic

Edition) defines Euthanasia as following: 71. The Oxford English Dictionary defines 'euthanasia': 72. In ancient Greek Society, Euthanasia as 'good death'

was associated with the drinking of 'Hemlock'. Drinking

of   Hemlock   had   become   common   not   only   in   cases   of

incurable   diseases   but   also   by   those   individuals   who

faced other difficult problems or old age.   In ancient

times,   in   Greece   freedom   to   live   was   recognised

principle,   which   permitted   the   sick   and   desperates   to

terminate their lives by themselves or by taking outside 68 help.   In   last   few   centuries,   Euthanasia   increasingly

came   to   connote     specific  measures   taken   by   physicians

to   hasten   the   death.   The   primary   meaning,   as   has   now

been   ascribed   to   the   word   is   compassionate   murder.   In

the last century, the thought has gained acceptance that

Euthanasia   is   to   be   distinguished   from   withdrawal   of

life   saving   treatments   which   may   also  result   in   death.

Withdrawing medical treatment in a way hasten the death

in   case   of   terminal   illness   or   Persistent   Vegetative

State   (PVS)   but   is   not   to   be   treated   as   compassionate

murder. Advancement in the medical science on account of

which   life   can   be   prolonged   by   artificial   devices   are

the   developments   of   only   last   century.  Lord   Browne

Wilkinson, J.,  in  Airedale N.H.A. Trust v.  Bland, 1993

(2) W.L.R. 316 (H.L.), at page 389 observed: 73. In   recent   times,   three   principles   had   gained

acceptance throughout the world they are: 74. The   sanctity   of   life   is   one   thought   which   is

philosophically,  religiously  and  mythologically  accepted

by the large number of population of the world practicing

different faiths and religions. Sanctity of life entails

it's   inviolability   by   an   outsider.   Sanctity   of   life   is

the concern of State. 75. Right   of   self­determination   also   encompasses   in   it

bodily integrity. Without consent of an adult person, who

is in fit state of mind, even a surgeon is not authorised

to  violate  the  body.  Sanctity of  the  human  life  is  the

most   fundamental   of   the   human   social   values.     The

acceptance   of   human   rights   and     development   of   its

meaning in recent times has fully recognised the dignity

of   the   individual   human   being.   All   the   above   three

principles enable an adult human being of conscious mind

to   take   decision   regarding   extent   and   manner   of   taking

medical treatment. An adult human being of conscious mind

is   fully   entitled   to   refuse   medical   treatment   or   to

decide   not   to   take   medical   treatment   and   may   decide   to

embrace the death in natural way.   Euthanasia, as noted

above, as the meaning of the word suggest is an act which

leads to a good death. Some positive act is necessary to

characterise   the   action   as   Euthanasia.     Euthanasia   is

also commonly called “assisted suicide” due to the above

reasons. J. WITHDRAWAL OF LIFE SAVING DEVICES 76. Withdrawal   of   medical   assistance   or   withdrawal   of 71 medical   devices   which   artificially   prolong   the   life

cannot   be   regarded   as   an   act   to   achieve   a   good   death.

Artificial   devices   to   prolong   the   life   are   implanted,

when a person is likely to die due to different causes

in his body. Life saving treatment and devices are put

by physicians to prolong the life of a person. The Law

Commission   of   India   in   its   196th  Report   on   “Medical

Treatment   to   Terminally   Ill   Patients   (Protection   of

Patients and Medical Practitioners)” on the subject had

put introductory note to the following effect: 77. The Law Commission of India was of the opinion that

withdrawing   life   supporting   measures   of   patient

terminally ill is a concept, different from Euthanasia.

The   opinion   of  Cardozo,   J.,  rendered   more   than   hundred

years   ago   that   every   human   being   of   adult   years   and 72 sound mind has a right to determine what shall be done

with   his   own   body,   is   now   universally   accepted

principle.   The   judgment   of   the   U.S.   Supreme   Court   and

House   of   Lords,   as   noticed   above,   also   reiterate   the

above principle. 78.   Recently,   in   a   nine­Judges     judgment   in K.S.

Puttaswamy   and   Another   Vs.   Union   of   India   and   Others ,

(2017) 10 SCC 1, Justice J. Chelameswar  elaborating the

concept   of   right   to   life   as   enshrined   in Article   21 under the Constitution of India has observed: 79.  Withdrawal of life­saving devices, leads to natural

death which is arrested  for the time being due to above

device   and   the   act   of   withdrawal   put   the   life   on   the

natural track. Decision to withdraw life­saving devices

is not an act to cause good death of the person rather,

decision to withdraw or not to initiate life­supporting

measures is a decision when treatment becomes futile and

unnecessary.   Practice of Euthanasia in this country is 73 prohibited   and   for   medical   practitioners   it   is   already

ordained   to   be   unethical   conduct.   The   question   as   to

what should be the measures to be taken while taking a

decision to withdraw life­saving measures or life­saving

devices   is   another   question   which   we   shall   consider   a

little later. 80.   Two­Judge Bench in Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug Vs.

Union of India and Ors. , (2011) 4 SCC 454 has held that

withdrawal   of   live­saving   measures   is   a   passive

Euthanasia which is permissible in India.   A critically

ill   patient   who   is   mentally   competent   to   take   a

decision, decides not to take support of life prolonging

measures, and respecting his wisdom if he is not put on

such   devices   like   ventilator   etc.,   it   is   not   at   all

Euthanasia.   Large   number   of   persons   in   advance   age   of

life   decide   not   to   take   medical   treatment   and   embrace

death in its natural way, can their death be termed as

Euthanasia.   Answer   is,   obviously   'No'.      The   decision

not to take life saving medical treatment by a patient,

who is competent to express his opinion cannot be termed

as   euthanasia,   but   a   decision   to   withdraw   life   saving 74 treatment by a patient who is competent to take decision

as well as with regard to a patient who is not competent

to   take   decision   can   be   termed   as   passive   euthanasia.

On   the   strength   of   the   precedents   in   this   country   and

weight of precedents of other countries as noted above,

such action of withdrawing life saving device is legal.

Thus, such acts, which are commonly expressed as passive

euthanasia   is   lawful   and   legally   permissible   in   this

country. 81. We   remind   ourselves   that   this   Court   is   not   a

legislative body nor is entitled or competent to act as

a   moral   or   ethical   arbiter.   The   task   of   this   Court   is

not   to   weigh   or   evaluate   or   reflect   different  believes

and views or give effect to its own but to ascertain and

build  the  law  of  land  as  it  is   now  understood  by   all.

Message   which   need   to   be   sent   to   vulnerable   and

disadvantaged people should not, however, obliviously to

encourage them to seek death but should assure them of

care and support in life. 82.  We thus are of the considered opinion that the act 75 of withdrawal from live­saving devices is an independent

right   which   can   lawfully   be   exercised   by   informed

decision. K. DECISION FOR WITHDRAWAL OF LIFE­SAVING TREATMENT IN 
 CASE   OF   A   PERSON   WHO   IS   INCOMPETENT   TO   TAKE   AN  
 INFORMED DECISION. 83. One related aspect which needs to be considered is

that   is   case   of   those   patients   who   are   incompetent   to

decide due to their mental state or due to the fact that

they are in permanent persistent vegetative state or due

to   some   other   reasons   unable   to   communicate   their

desire. When the right of an adult person who expresses

his view regarding medical treatment can be regarded as

right   flowing   from Article   21 of   the   Constitution   of

India,   the   right   of   patient   who   is   incompetent   to

express his view cannot be outside the fold of Article

21 of the Constitution of India. It is another issue, as

to   how,   the   decision   in   cases   of   mentally   incompetent

patients   regarding   withdrawal   of   life­saving   measures,

is to be taken. 84. The   rights   of   bodily   integrity   and   self­

determination are the rights which belong to every human

being.   When   an   adult   person   having   mental   capacity   to

take   a   decision   can   exercise   his   right   not   to   take

treatment   or   withdraw   from   treatment,   the   above   right

cannot be negated for a person who is not able to take

an informed decision due to terminal illness or being a

Persistent   Vegetative   State   (PVS).   The   question   is   who

is competent to take decision in case of terminally­ill

or   PVS   patient,   who   is   not   able   to   take   decision.   In

case of a person who is suffering from a disease and is

taking medical treatment, there are three stake holders;

the   person   himself,   his   family   members   and   doctor

treating   the   patient.   The   American   Courts   give

recognition   to   opinion   of   “surrogate”   where   person   is

incompetent   to   take   a   decision.   No   person   can   take

decision regarding life of another unless he is entitled

to   take   such   decision   authorised   under   any   law.   The

English Courts have applied the “best interests” test in

case of a incompetent person. The best interests of the

patient have to be found out not by doctor treating the 77 patient   alone   but   a   team   of   doctors   specifically

nominated   by   the   State   Authority. In Aruna   Shanbaug (supra),  two­Judge   Bench  of   this  Court   has   opined   that

in   such   cases   relying   on   doctrine   of   ‘parens   patriae

(father of the country)’, it is the Court alone which is

entitled   to   take   a   decision   whether   to   withdraw

treatment for incompetent terminally­ill or PVS patient.

In paragraphs 130 and 131 following has been held: (emphasis supplied)

 A   bare   perusal   of   the   above   provisions
 shows that  the  High  Court under Article 226 of
 the   Constitution   is   not   only   entitled   to
 issue writs, but is also entitled to issue
 directions or orders.” 85. Various   learned   counsel   appearing   before   us   have

submitted   that   seeking   declaration   from   the   High   Court

in   cases   where   medical   treatment   is   needed   to   be

withdrawn is time taking and does not advance the object

nor is in the interest of terminally­ill patient. It is

submitted   that   to   keep   check   on   such   decisions,   the

State should constitute competent authorities consisting

of   pre­dominantly   experienced   medical   practitioners 79 whose decision may be followed by all concerned with a

rider that after taking of decision by competent body a

cooling   period   should   be   provided   to   enable   anyone

aggrieved from the decision to approach a Court of Law.

We also are of the opinion that in cases of incompetent

patients who are unable to take an informed decision, it

is   in   the   best   interests   of   the   patient   that   the

decision be taken by competent medical experts and that

such   decision   be   implemented   after   providing   a   cooling

period at least of one month to enable aggrieved person

to approach the Court of Law. The best interest of the

patient as determined by medical experts shall meet the

ends   of   justice.   The   medical   team   by   taking   decision

shall   also   take   into   consideration   the   opinion   of   the

blood relations of the patient and other relevant facts

and circumstances. L.  ADVANCE MEDICAL DIRECTIVE 86. The petitioner by the Writ Petition has also sought

a   direction   to   the   respondent   to   adopt   suitable

procedures to ensure that persons of deteriorated health 80 or terminally ill should be able to execute a document

titled   “MY   LIVING  WILL   &  ATTORNEY  AUTHORISATION”.     The

petitioner   submits   that   it   is   an   important   personal

decision   of  the  patient  to  use   or  not  to   use  the   life

sustaining   treatment   in   case   of   terminal   illness   and

stage   of   persistent   vegetative   state.   The   petitioner

pleads that the petitioner’s endeavour is only to seek a

‘choice’   for   the   people   which   is   not   available   at

present and they are left to the mercy of doctors who to

save   themselves   from   any   penal   consequences   half

heartedly, despite knowing that the death is inevitable

continue   administering   the   treatment   which   the   person

might not have wanted to continue with.   A person will

be free to issue advance directives both in a positive

and   negative   manner,   meaning   thereby   that   a   person   is

not   necessarily   required   to   issue   directive   that   the

life sustaining treatment should not be given to him in

the event of he or she going into persistent vegetative

state or in an irreversible state.   The person can also

issue directives as to all the possible treatment which

should  be  given  to   him  when  he  is  not  able   to  express 81 his/her   wishes   on   medical   treatment.     The   petitioner

also   refers   to   and   rely   on   various   legislations   in

different   countries,   which   recognises   the   concept   of

advance   medical   directive.     Petitioner   pleads   that   in

India also law in the nature “Patient Autonomy & Self­

determination   Act”   should   be   enacted.   Petitioner   has

also   alongwith   his   Writ   Petition   has   annexed   a   draft

titling it “Patient’s Self­determination Act”. 87. The   concept   of   advance   medical   directive   is   also

called   living   will   is   of   recent   origin,   which   gained

recognition in  latter part  of 20th  century. The advance

medical   directive   has   been   recognised   first   by   Statute

in United States of America when in the year 1976, State

of California passed “Natural Death Act”.  It is claimed

that 48 states out of 50 in the United States of America

have   enacted   their   own   laws   regarding   Patient’s   Rights

and   advance   medical   directives.     Advance   medical

directive   is   a   mechanism   through   which   individual

autonomy can be safeguarded in order to provide dignity

in   dying.     As   noted   above,   the   Constitution   Bench   of

this   Court   in   the   case   of Gian   Kaur (supra)  has   laid 82 down   that   right   to   die   with   dignity   is   enshrined   in Article   21 of   the   Constitution.     It   is   to   be   noticed

that   advance   medical   directives   are   not   exclusively

associated with end of life decisions.   However, it is

vital   to   ensure   that   form   of   an   advance   medical

directive   reflects   the   needs   of   its   author   and   is

sufficiently   authoritative   and   practical   to   enable   its

provisions   to   be   upheld.     In   most   of   the   western

countries   advance   medical   directives   have   taken   a

legalistic form incorporating a formal declaration to be

signed   by   competent   witnesses.     The   laws   also   make

provisions   for   updating   confirmation   of   its

applicability and revocation.  Protecting the individual

autonomy is obviously the primary purpose of an advance

medical directive.   The right to decide one’s own fate

pre­supposes a capacity to do so.  The answer as to when

a particular advance medical directive becomes operative

usually depends upon an assent of when its author is no

longer   competent   to   participate   in   medical   decision

making.   The Black’s Law Dictionary defines the Advance

Medical Directive as “a legal document explaining one’s 83 wishes   about   medical   treatment   if   one   becomes

incompetent   or   unable   to   communicate”.     An   advance

medical directive is an individual’s advance exercise of

his   autonomy   on   the   subject   of   extent   of   medical

intervention that he wishes to allow upon his own body

at a future date, when he may not be in a position to

specify his wishes.   The purpose and object of advance

medical directive is to express the choice of a person

regarding  medical  treatment   in   an  event   when   he   looses

capacity   to   take   a   decision.   Use   and   operation   of

advance medical directive is to confine only to a case

when   person   becomes   incapacitated   to   take   an   informed

decision regarding his medical treatment.  So long as an

individual   can   take   an   informed   decision   regarding   his

medical   treatment,   there   is   no   occasion   to   look   into

advance   medical   directives.   A   person   has   unfettered

right to change or cancel his advance medical directives

looking to the need of time and advancement in medical

science.  Hence, a person cannot be tied up or bound by

his instructions given at an earlier point of time. 88. The concept of advance medical directive originated 84 largely as a response to development in medicines.  Many

people   living   depending   on   machines   cause   great

financial distress to the family with the cost of long

term   medical   treatment.    Advance   medical   directive   was

developed   as   a   means   to   restrict   the   kinds   of   medical

intervention in event when one become incapacitated. The

foundation   for   seeking   direction   regarding   advance

medical   directive   is   extension   of   the   right   to   refuse

medical   treatment   and   the   right   to   die   with   dignity.

When   a   competent   patient   has   right   to   take   a   decision

regarding   medical   treatment,   with   regard   to   medical

procedure entailing right to die with dignity, the said

right   cannot   be   denied   to   those   patients,   who   have

become   incompetent   to  take   an  informed   decision   at   the

relevant time. The concept of advance medical directive

has gained ground to give effect to the rights of those

patients, who at a  particular time are not able to take

an   informed   decision.     Another   concept   which   has   been

accepted   in   several   countries   is   recognition   of

instrument   through   which   a   person   nominates   a

representative to make decision regarding their medical 85 treatment at a point of time when the person executing

the   instrument   is  unable   to   make   an   informed   decision.

This is called attorney authorisation leading to medical

treatment.   In   this   country,   there   is   no   legislation

governing   such   advance   medical   directives.     It   is,

however, relevant to note a recent legislation passed by

the Parliament namely “ The Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 ”,

where as per Section 5 every person, who is not a minor

has   a   right   to   make   an   advance   directive   in   writing

regarding treatment to his mental illness in the way a

person   wishes   to   be   treated   or   mental   illness.     The

person wishes not to be treated for mental illness and

nomination   of   individual   and   individual’s   as   his/her

representative. Section 5 is to the following effect:­

 “5.   (1)   Every   person,   who   is   not   a   minor,
 shall   have   a   right   to   make   an   advance
 directive in writing, specifying any or all
 of the following, namely:–– (a)   the   way   the   person   wishes   to
 be   cared   for   and   treated   for   a
 mental illness; (b) the way the person wishes not
 to be cared for and treated for a
 mental illness; (c) the individual or individuals,
 in   order   of   precedence,   he   wants
 to   appoint   as   his   nominated
 representative   as   provided   under section 14 . (2)   An   advance   directive   under   sub­section
 (1) may be made by a person irrespective of
 his   past   mental   illness   or   treatment   for
 the same. (3)   An   advance   directive   made   under   sub­
 section   (1),   shall   be   invoked   only   when
 such person ceases to have capacity to make
 mental   healthcare   or   treatment   decisions
 and   shall   remain   effective   until   such
 person   regains   capacity   to   make   mental
 healthcare or treatment decisions. (4) Any decision made by a person while he
 has the capacity  to make  mental healthcare
 and treatment decisions shall over­ride any
 previously   written   advance   directive   by
 such person. (5) Any advance directive made contrary to
 any   law   for   the   time   being   in   force   shall
 be ab initio void.” 89. Section   6 of   the   Act   provides   that   an   advance

directive   shall   be   made   in   the   manner   as   has   been

prescribed   by   the   regulations   made   by   the   Central

Authority.     In   the   draft   Medical   Healthcare   Regulation

published   by   Ministry   of   Health   and   Family   Welfare,   a

form   is   prescribed   in   which   advance   directive   may   be 87 made.  Other aspects of medical directive have also been

dealt with by draft regulation.   Thus, in our country,

recognition   of   advance   directives   regarding   medical

treatment has started to be recognised and are in place

relating   to   specified   field   and   purpose.   Another

legislation   which   also   recognise   some   kind   of   advance

directive   relating   to   a   person’s   body   is Section   3 of

the   Transplantation   of   Human   Organs   and   Tissues   Act,

1994. Section   3 sub­sections   (1)   and   (2)   which   are

relevant for the present purpose is as follows:­

 “3.  Authority  for removal  of [human organs
 or tissues or both].—(1) Any donor may, in
 such  manner and subject to such conditions
 as   may   be   prescribed,   authorise   the
 removal,   before   his   death,   of   any   [human
 organ   or   tissue   or   both]   of   his   body   for
 therapeutic purposes. (2) If any donor had, in writing and in the
 presence of two or more witnesses (at least
 one   of   whom   is   a   near   relative   of   such
 person),   unequivocally   authorised   at   any
 time   before   his   death,   the   removal   of   any
 [human   organ   or   tissue   or   both]   of   his
 body,   after   his   death,   for   therapeutic
 purposes, the person lawfully in possession
 of the dead body of the donor shall, unless
 he has any reason to believe that the donor
 had   subsequently   revoked   the   authority
 aforesaid,   grant   to   a   registered   medical
 practitioner   all   reasonable   facilities   for
 the   removal,   for   therapeutic   purposes,   of 88 that   [human   organ   or   tissue   or   both]   from
 the dead body of the donor.” 90. The rules have been framed under Section 24 of the

Transplantation   of   Human   Organs   and   Tissues   Act,   1994

namely   Transplantation   of   Human   Organs   and   Tissues

Rules,   2014   where   form   of   authorisation   for   organ   or

tissue   pledging   is   Form   7,   which   provides   that   an

authorisation   by   donor   in   presence   of   two   witnesses

which is also required to be  registered  by Organ Donor

Registry. 91. The   statutory   recognition   of   the   above   mentioned

authorisation   in   two   statutes   is   clear   indication   of

acceptance   of   the   concept   of   advance   medical   directive

in this country. 92. Learned   counsel   for   the   petitioner   as   well   as   for

the interveners and the Additional Solicitor General of

India   has   expressed   concern   regarding   manner   and

procedure of execution of advance medical directive. It

is submitted that unless proper safeguards are not laid

down, those who are vulnerable, infirm and aged may be 89 adversely   affected   and   efforts   by   those   related   to   a

person   to   expedite   death   of   a   person   for   gaining

different benefits, cannot be ruled out.   We have been

referred to various legislations in different countries,

which   provides   a   detailed   procedure   of   execution   of

advance medical directive, competence of witnesses, mode

and manner of execution, authority to register and keep

such advance medical directive. 93. Shri Arvind Datar, learned senior counsel has in its

written   submissions   referred   to   certain   aspects,   which

may   be   kept   in   mind   while   formulating   guidelines   for

advance medical directive, which are as follows: a)   Only   adult  persons,   above   the   age   of
 eighteen   years   and   of   sound   mind   at   the
 time   at   which   the   advance   directive   is
 executed  should be deemed to  be competent. This   should   include   persons   suffering   from
 mental   disabilities   provided   they   are   of
 sound   mind   at   the   time   of   executing   an
 advance directive. b)   Only   written   advance   directives   that
 have   been   executed   properly   with   the
 notarised signature of the person executing
 the   advance   directive,   in   the   presence   of
 two   adult   witnesses   shall   be   valid   and
 enforceable   in   the   eyes   of   the   law.   The
 form   should   require   a   reaffirmation   that 90 the   person   executing   such   directive   has
made   an   informed   decision.   Only   those
advance   directives   relating   to   the
withdrawal   or   withholding   of   life­
sustaining   treatment   should   be   granted
legal   validity.   The   determination   that   the
executor   of   the   advance   directive   is   no
longer   capable   of   making   the   decision
should be made in accordance  with relevant
medical   professional   regulations   or
standard   treatment   guidelines,   as   also   the
determination   that   the   executor's   life
would   terminate   in   the   absence   of   life­
sustaining treatment. The constitution of a
panel of experts may also be considered to
make  this determination.  The use  of expert
committees   or   ethics   committees   in   other
jurisdictions   is   discussed   at   Para   28   of
these written submissions. c)   Primary   responsibility   for   ensuring
compliance   with   the   advance   directive
should be on  the medical  institution where
the person is receiving such treatment. d)   If a hospital refuses to recognise the
validity   of   an   advance   directive,   the
relatives   or   next   friend   may   approach   the
jurisdictional High Court seeking a writ of
mandamus   against   the   concerned   hospital   to
execute   the   directive.   The   High   Court   may
examine   whether   the   directive   has   been
properly   executed,   whether   it   is   still
valid   (Le,   whether   or   not   circumstances
have   fundamentally   changed   since   its
execution,   making   it   invalid)   and/or
applicable   to   the   particular   circumstances
or treatment. e)     No   hospital   or   doctor   should   be   made
liable in civil or criminal proceedings for 91 having   obeyed   a   validly   executed   advance
 directive. f)     Doctors   citing   conscientious   objection
 to the enforcement of advance directives on
 the grounds of religion should be permitted
 not   to   enforce   it,   taking   into   account
 their fundamental right under Article 25 of
 the   Constitution.   However,   the   hospital
 will still remain under this obligation. 94. The right to self­determination and bodily integrity

has been recognised by this Court as noted above.   The

right to execute an advance medical directive is nothing

but a step towards protection of aforesaid right by an

individual,   in   event   he   becomes   incompetent   to   take   an

informed decision, in particular stage of life.   It has

to   be   recognised   by   all   including   the   States   that   a

person has right to execute an advance medical directive

to be utilised to know his decision regarding manner and

extent of medical treatment given to his body, in case

he is incapacitated to take an informed decision.   Such

right   by   an   individual   does   not   depend   on   any

recognition or legislation by a State and we are of the

considered opinion that such rights can be exercised by

an   individual  in   recognition   and   in   affirmation   of   his 92 right   of   bodily   integrity   and   self­determination   which

are duly protected under Article 21 of the Constitution.

The   procedure   and   manner   of   such   expression   of   such

right   is   a   question   which   needs   to   be   addressed   to

protect the vulnerable, infirm and old from any misuse.

It   is   the   duty   of   the   State   to   protect   its   subjects

specially   those   who   are  infirm,  old   and   needs   medical

care.  The duty of doctor to extend medical care to the

patients, who comes to them in no manner diminishes in

any manner by recognition of concept that an individual

is entitled to execute an advance medical directive. The

physicians and medical practitioners treating a person,

who   is   incompetent   to  express  an   informed  decision   has

to act in a manner so as to give effect to the express

wishes of an individual. 95. The concept of advance medical directive has gained

ground   throughout   the   world.   Different   countries   have

framed   necessary   legislation   in   this   regard.   Reference

of   few   of   such   legislations   shall   give   idea   of   such

statutory   scheme   formulated   by   different   countries   to

achieve the object. The Republic of Singapore has passed 93 an   enactment   namely   ADVANCE   MEDICAL   DIRECTIVE   ACT   (Act

16   of   1996). Section   3 of   the   Act,   sub­section   (1)

empowers   a   person   who   is   not   mentally   disordered   and

attained   the   age   of   21   years   to   make   an   advance

directive in the prescribed form. Other   provisions   of   Statute   deals   with   duty   of

witness,   registration   of   directives,   objections,

revocation   of   directive,   panel   of   specialists,

certification   of   terminal   illness,   duty   of   medical

practitioner   and   other   related   provisions.   The   Belgian

Act   on   Euthanasia,   2002   also   contains   provisions

regarding   advance   directive   in Section   4 .   Swiss   Civil

Code 1907 in Articles 362 and 365 provides for advance

care   directive,   its   execution   and   termination.   Mental

Capacity   Act,   2005   (England)   also   contemplates   for   an

advance directive. The Statute further provides that an

advance   directive   is   applicable   in   life   sustaining

treatment   only.   When   the   decision   taken   in   writing,

signed by the patient or by another person in patient's

presence on his direction. Pennsylvania Act 169 of 2006

also   contains   provisions   with   regard   to   execution   of 94 advance medical directive and other related provisions,

its revocation etc.

 In   our   country,   there   is   yet   no   legislation

pertaining to advance medical directive. It is, however,

relevant   to   note   that   Ministry   of   Health   and   Family

Welfare vide its order dated 06.05.2016 uploaded the Law

Commission's   241st  report   and   solicited   opinions,

comments on the same. An explanatory note has also been

uploaded   by   the   Ministry   of   Health   and   Family   Welfare

where in paragraph 6 following was stated: “ Living   Will   has   been   defined   as   “A
 document   in   which   person   states   his/her
 desire   to   have   or   not   to   have   extraordinary
 life   prolonging   measures   used   when   recovery
 is   not   possible   from   his/her   terminal
 condition”. However, as per para 11 of the said Bill
 the   advance   medical   directive   (living   will)
 or medical power of attorney executed by the
 person   shall   be   void   and   of   no   effect   and
 shall   not   be   binding   on   any   medical
 practitioner.”

 Although   in   Clause   11   of   the   draft   bill,   it   was

contemplated   that   advance   medical   directives   are   not

binding   on   medical   practitioner   but   the   process   of 95 legislation   had   not   reached   at   any   final   stage.   The

directions and safeguards which have been enumerated by

Hon'ble   Chief   Justice   in   his   judgment   shall   be

sufficient   to   safeguard   the   interests   of   patients,

doctors and society till the appropriate legislation is

framed and enforced. We   thus   conclude   that   a   person   with   competent

medical   facility   is   entitled   to   execute   an   advance

medical directive subject to various safeguards as noted

above. M. CONCLUSIONS: We   hold   that   no   binding   view   was   expressed   by   the

Constitution Bench on the subject of Euthanasia. (iii)     The   Constitution   Bench,   however,   noted   a

distinction between cases in which physician decides not

to   provide   or   continue   to   provide   for   treatment   and

care, which could or might prolong his life and those in

which he decides to administer a lethal drug even though

with   object   of   relieving   the   patient   from   pain   and

suffering.   The   later   was   held   not   to   be   covered   under

any right flowing from Article 21. (iv) Thus, the law of the land as existing today is

that   no   one   is   permitted   to   cause   death   of   another

person including a physician by administering any lethal 97 drug   even   if   the   objective   is   to   relieve   the   patient

from pain and suffering. (v)  An adult human being of conscious mind is fully

entitled to refuse medical treatment or to decide not to

take   medical   treatment   and   may   decide   to   embrace   the

death in natural way. (vi) Euthanasia as the meaning of words suggest is an

act   which   leads   to   a   good   death.   Some   positive   act   is

necessary   to   characterise   the   action   as   Euthanasia.

Euthanasia is also commonly called “assisted suicide” due

to the above reasons. (vii) We are thus of the opinion that the right not

to   take   a   life   saving   treatment   by   a   person,   who   is

competent to take an informed decision is not covered by

the   concept   of   euthanasia  as   it   is   commonly   understood

but   a   decision   to   withdraw   life   saving   treatment   by   a

patient   who   is   competent   to   take   decision   as   well   as

with   regard   to   a   patient   who   is   not   competent   to   take

decision   can   be   termed   as  passive  euthanasia,  which   is

lawful and legally permissible in this country. 98 (viii) The   right   of   patient   who   is   incompetent   to

express his view cannot be outside of fold of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. (ix)   We   also   are   of   the   opinion   that   in   cases   of

incompetent patients who are unable to take an informed

decision, “the best interests principle” be applied  and

such   decision   be   taken   by   specified   competent   medical

experts   and   be   implemented   after   providing   a   cooling

period to enable aggrieved person to approach the court

of law. (x) An advance medical directive is an individual’s

advance   exercise   of   his   autonomy   on   the   subject   of

extent   of  medical  intervention   that   he   wishes  to   allow

upon his own body at a future date, when he may not be

in   a   position   to   specify   his   wishes.     The   purpose   and

object   of   advance   medical   directive   is   to   express   the

choice   of   a   person   regarding   medical   treatment   in   an

event   when   he   looses   capacity   to   take   a   decision.   The

right to execute an advance medical directive is nothing 99 but a step towards protection of aforesaid right by an

individual. (xi) Right of execution of an advance medical directive

by an individual does not depend on any recognition or

legislation   by   a   State   and   we   are   of   the   considered

opinion   that   such   rights   can   be   exercised   by   an

individual   in   recognition   and   in   affirmation   of   his

right of bodily integrity and self­determination. In view of our conclusions as noted above the writ

petition is allowed in the following manner: 96.   Before we conclude, we acknowledge our indebtness

to all the learned Advocates who have rendered valuable

assistance with great industry and ability which made it

possible   for   us   to   resolve   issues   of   seminal   public

importance.   We   record   our   fullest   appreciation   for   the

assistance   rendered   by   each   and   every   counsel   in   this

case. ...............................J.
 ( ASHOK BHUSHAN )

NEW DELHI,
MARCH  09, 2018.