1. The pe oner apprehending arrest in the FIR cap oned above has come up
before this Court under Sec on 482 of Bhara ya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, [BNSS],
seeking an cipatory bail. 2. In paragraph 12 of the bail pe on, the accused declares that he has no criminal
antecedents. 3. The facts and allega ons are being taken from status report dated 03.08.2024
ﬁled by the State, which reads as follows: 4. Counsel for the pe oner has referred to order dated 11.12.2024 passed by this
Court in which his following statement was recorded, which reads as under: 5. The pe oner's counsel prays for bail by imposing any stringent condi ons and
contends that further pre-trial incarcera on would cause an irreversible injus ce to the
pe oner and his family. 6. The State's counsel opposes bail and refers to the status report. 7. It would be appropriate to refer to the following por ons of the status report
dated 03.08.2024, which read as follows: Therea5er, the pe oner got issued fake Visa and fake cket of South
 Africa to the complainant and thereby commi ed fraud of Rs.1,80,000/-
 with the complainant." 8. Although the allega ons against the pe oner were serious in nature but once
the complainant is stated to have compromised the ma?er with the pe oner, which is
not disputed by the State, as such, there is no reason to deny bail to the pe oner. 9. Pre-trial incarcera on should not be a replica of post-convic on sentencing. The
evidence might be prima facie suﬃcient to launch prosecu on or to frame charges, but
this Court is not considering the evidence at that stage but is analyzing it for the stage of
an cipatory bail. An analysis of the above does not jus fy custodial interroga on or pre-
trial incarcera on. 10. Given the above, the penal provisions invoked coupled with the primafacie
analysis of the nature of allega ons and the other factors peculiar to this case, there
would be no jus ﬁability for custodial interroga on or the pre-trial incarcera on at this
stage. Without commen ng on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons men oned above, the pe oner makes a case for bail. 11. Given above, provided the pe oner is not required in any other case, the
pe oner shall be released on an cipatory bail in the FIR cap oned above subject to
furnishing bonds to the sa sfac on of the Arres ng Oﬃcer, and if the ma?er is before a
Court, then the concerned Court and due to unavailability before any nearest Ilaqa
Magistrate/duty Magistrate. Before accep ng the surety, the concerned Oﬃcer/Court
must be sa sﬁed that if the accused fails to appear, such surety can produce the
accused. 12. While furnishing a personal bond, the pe oner shall men on the following
personal iden ﬁca on details: 13. This order is subject to the pe oner's complying with the following terms. 14. The pe oner is directed to join the inves ga on within seven days of uploading 3 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 29-01-2025 03:57:08 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:011994

CRM-M-33587-2024

this order on the oﬃcial webpage of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana and as and
when called by the Inves gator. The pe oner shall be in deemed custody for Sec on
27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 / Sec on 23 of BSA, 2023. The pe oner shall join
the inves ga on as and when called by the Inves ga ng Oﬃcer or any Superior Oﬃcer
and shall cooperate with the inves ga on at all further stages as required. In the event
of failure to do so, the prosecu on will be open to seeking cancella on of the bail.
During the inves ga on, the pe oner shall not be subjected to third-degree, indecent
language, inhuman treatment, etc. 15. The pe oner shall abide by all statutory bond condi ons and appear before the
concerned Court(s) on all dates. The pe oner shall not tamper with the evidence,
inﬂuence, browbeat, pressurize, induce, threaten, or promise, directly or indirectly, any
witnesses, Police oﬃcials, or any other person acquainted with the facts and
circumstances of the case or dissuade them from disclosing such facts to the Police or
the Court. 16. In case the Inves gator/Oﬃcer-In-Charge of the concerned Police Sta on
arraigns another sec on of any penal oﬀense in this FIR, and if the new sec on
prescribes a maximum sentence that is not greater than the sec ons men oned above,
then this bail order shall be deemed to have also been passed for the newly added
sec on(s). However, suppose the newly inserted sec ons prescribe a sentence
exceeding the maximum sentence prescribed in the sec ons men oned above; then, in
that case, the Inves gator/Oﬃcer-In-Charge shall give the pe oner no ce of a
minimum of seven days, providing an opportunity to avail the remedies available in law. 17. This bail is condi onal, and the founda onal condi on is that if the pe oner
indulges in any non-bailable oﬀense, the State may ﬁle an applica on for cancella on of
this bail before the Sessions Court, which shall be at liberty to cancel this bail. 18. Any observa on made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
case's merits nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 19. A cer ﬁed copy of this order would not be needed for furnishing bonds, and any
Advocate for the Pe oner can download this order along with case status from the
oﬃcial web page of this Court and a?est it to be a true copy. If the a?es ng oﬃcer
wants to verify its authen city, such an oﬃcer can also verify its authen city and may
download and use the downloaded copy for a?es ng bonds. 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 29-01-2025 03:57:08 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:011994

CRM-M-33587-2024 20. Pe11on allowed in terms men oned above. All pending applica ons, if any,
stand disposed of.