1. Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey is a person who believes that he has been let down
by the society and the State and therefore in desperation he turns to the legal W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 1 of 58 system for help. This Bench had the benefit of hearing him for about two hours
on September 23, 2013, an hour and a half on September 25, 2013 and for two
hours on September 30, 2013. His arguments were full of verbosity, clichés, stray
quotations and inchoate because he shoots off at a tangent in the midst of an
argument; after making submissions on other points he reverts to the point from
where he took off at a tangent. Statements of facts were liberally spiced with
imaginaries and concoctions. 2. We would not be wrong to record that Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey
understands the general nature of the legal issues which confront him, but
unfortunately these are based on illusions and fantasies and therefore he is
thoroughly confused with what is relevant. The result is that he not only files
confusing, lengthy and repetitive applications but also makes submissions which
are a strange mix of metaphors, requiring the same to be filtered to understand
what he means. In his pursuit for the quest for illusory justice, the voluminous
pleadings are accompanied by newspaper reports, extract of passages from
articles, decisions, legislations and international declarations on human
rights. His pleadings pick on stray words and phrases, upon which he lays
great emphasis. To the reader, the pleadings present a wearisome diffuse of
conversation. 3. While addressing arguments, he deals with multiplicity of events, and
this is the reason why he tends to repeatedly go off at a tangent. He does so
in the hope and belief that in the mass of material he presents to the Judge
there may be something that assists his case. But, for a Judge, this is not
only inefficient and extremely frustrating, because the Judge has not only to
read a large mass of irrelevant material but also hear arguments which
border on perversity. 4. The voluminous record generated by Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey in
Crl.Writ No.861/1997 runs into 4241 pages and near about 1/10th would be W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 2 of 58 the volume of record in Crl.Contempt Case No.17/2008 initiated by him.
We have not counted the number of pages constituting the record of the
multiple proceedings he has initiated which are pending in the courts of
Sh.S.K.Sarvaria, District & Sessions Judge, North West District Delhi;
Mr.Chander Shekhar, District & Sessions Judge, North; Sh.Shailender
Malik, Senior Civil Judge-cum-Rent Controller, North West District Delhi;
Sh.Sumit Dass, Learned Additional Civil Judge, North West District Delhi;
Sh.Sanjay Jindal, Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, North West District Delhi;
Sh.Sanjeev Kumar, ASJ-I, North West District Delhi; Sh.N.K.Sharma, CBI
Judge, Tis Hazari Delhi; Mr.Manish Khurana, Metropolitan Magistrate,
North; and Ms.Navita Kumari, Metropolitan Magistrate, New Delhi District
Delhi but we find that the number would be in the vicinity of about 20,000
pages. On September 23, 2013 after we had heard him for about two hours
we had called for reports from the Judges named hereinbefore of the
proceedings pending in their courts in which he was a complainant or party
in civil proceedings. At the conclusion of the hearing on September 30,
2013, we had directed that record of all the proceedings pending before the
learned Judges be sent to us. The reports were received from the learned
Judges on September 25, 2013. The record of the proceedings was received
on October 03, 2013. The same has been perused by us. The list of cases
pending before the different learned Judges are as per the Schedule to the
present decision, and 12 more. 5. Let us present a cacophony of what he argued before us on September
23, 2013, September 25, 2013 and September 30, 2013. We endeavour to
pen profile the same, retaining the cacophony, but sans the verbosity.
Referring to Article 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights, 1966, he proceeded to refer to Article 1 and Article 10 of the W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 3 of 58 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948. But what for! He followed
up by stating that his right of equality under Article 14 of the Constitution of
India entitles him to appear in court. He stated that to do justice to him the
State should provide him a safe accommodation in a suite in Western Court,
Janpath. He said that order dated July 17, 1998 passed by Hon‟ble
Mr.Justice Devender Gupta and Hon‟ble Mr.Justice N.G.Nandi of this Court
have recognized his right and so do the orders passed on April 16, 2001 and
November 17, 1999. He read out Articles 14 , 16 , 19 and 21 of the
Constitution of India, and made a reference to an order passed by Hon‟ble
Mr.Justice G.S.Singhvi (Judge, Supreme Court of India) in which
observations were made on corruption pertaining to what is popularly called
the „2G Scam Case‟. Referring to newspaper reports pertaining to
Sh.O.P.Chautala the Ex-Chief Minister of Haryana being convicted and sent
to jail, he made reference to Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act,
1988 and made a grievance as to why Judges disregard the said provision.
He said, and in respect of which he made a grievance, that on September 19,
2013 he had been assaulted by the police in-charge of the security of the
Delhi High Court in front of the court room of the Hon‟ble Chief Justice of
the Delhi High Court and for which he had lodged FIR 50/LC. He grieved
that this Court was making deliberate attempts to harass him and that the
police had been cruel towards him. He referred to some order passed by the
High Court of Karnataka upholding the right to complain against Judges.
He stated that many Sessions Judges (names not given), were coercing him
to compromise the disputes he had with other parties. He referred to a
newspaper report pertaining to firing by Italian Marines, off the shore near
Cochin, in which two fishermen died and said that the Supreme Court had
refused to accept offer by Government of Italy to pay `2 crores by way of W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 4 of 58 compensation to settle the issue and said that he has the same right to
enforce the penal laws pertaining to offences committed against him and that
no Judge could compel him to compromise the issues raised by him. He
started narrating dialogues which he had with the then Chairperson of the
National Human Rights Commission, Chief Justice (Retd.)
M.N.R.Venkatachaliah, and said that we could speak to him to corroborate
his stand that Justice (Retd.) M.N.R.Venkatachaliah had accorded
permission to him to research at the National Human Rights Commission.
He referred to a statement made by Sh.Soli J.Sorabjee when he was the
Attorney General of India pertaining to collapse of the criminal justice
system and said that Sh.Soli J.Sorabjee was a good friend of his. He
referred to L.A.University Press report of the year 1921 as to how the
judicial process was being abused in the United States of America. He
claimed that Sh.S.N.Dhingra, the then District & Sessions Judge Delhi, had
issued notice to CBI pertaining to the death of Sh.Ravinder Kumar, Director,
Nehru Memorial Museum and Library. He stated that Sh.Ravinder Kumar
was poisoned and that the conspiracy was hatched by Sh.O.P.Kejariwal so
that he could succeed to the office of the Director of Nehru Memorial
Museum and Library. He said that one Sh.Sharma had also been poisoned.
He said that the two were poisoned because they were his witnesses. He
said that the orders passed by Sh.S.N.Dhingra had not been complied with.
He followed up the submissions by saying that pursuant to some orders
passed by Hon‟ble Mr.Justice Badar Durrez Ahmed of this Court to provide
him security he had given some papers to the then Director of Central
Bureau of Investigation Sh.Ashwani Kumar. He submitted that Government
Officers as also Judges are hand-in-glove with Sh.O.P.Kejariwal who
became the Director of Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, Teen Murti W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 5 of 58 House. He said that he has a right to ensure that CBI investigates and finds
out the names of the corrupt officers in the Ministry of Home Affairs who
have a nexus with corrupt bureaucrats. Referring to a newspaper report
dated March 17, 2012, published in the newspaper „Hindu‟, he referred to
warrants being issued in some contempt proceedings against the Joint
Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs, Union of India. He said that this
court had issued notice to the Standing Counsel Government of NCT Delhi
and alleged that thereupon the Government of Delhi, assisted by the corrupt
police officers and bureaucrats, conspired to oust him from his house. He
said that criminal laws are mandatory and need to be enforced. Claiming to
be a very close friend of Justice (Retd.) V.R.Krishna Iyer, he argued that
Justice V.R.Krishna Iyer (Retd.) had encouraged him to fight for justice. He
said that sometimes rude words are used against him by Judges (whose
names we can find in the applications filed by him). He said that this court
should criticise the working of Judges because the Supreme Court had
criticised the Gujarat High Court as per a newspaper report dated April 15,
2004. He said that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal is a history sheeter and is an accused in
285 FIRs. He said that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal was removed as a Director of
Nehru Memorial Museum and Library because of a complaint against him
and that there was a question raised in Parliament against Sh.O.P.Kejariwal.
He referred to an article published on May 18, 1998 in „The Tribune‟
Chandigarh Edition on judicial functioning. He said that there are three kind
of biases, one of which is provincial bias. Access to the Court, he said was a
part of his fundamental right, which he claimed was violated because the
security in-charge of this Court would issue him an entry pass only on days
when above captioned petitions were listed and that too after lunch hours.
He said that he suspects that the Hon‟ble Chief Justice of the Delhi High W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 6 of 58 Court has passed some orders to restrict his access to this Court and for
which he wanted a direction to be issued to the Hon‟ble Chief Justice to
permit him access to his Lordship‟s Secretariat to enable him to inspect the
record. He claimed to have inspected the record of the court presided over
by Sh.N.K.Sharma CBI Judge, and therefrom drew sustenance to the
argument of his entitlement to inspect the record of the Secretariat of the
Chief Justice of this Court. He said that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal has corrupted
police officers. He said that he was a Senior Research Associate and was
senior to Sh.O.P.Kejariwal. That the topic of his Ph.D. was „Impact of
British Colonialism on Indian Political Thought with Reference to Dadabhai
Naoroji‟; and the grievance was that the research material collected by him
on said topic was stolen by Sh.O.P.Kejariwal to publish a book and
additionally some articles; the details of which he could not remember
because his record was stolen. He said that he had collected papers and
research material for his thesis from the National Archives of India and from
the Teen Murti House Library where he had worked in the year 1992 and
that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal, along with other unknown persons, committed
dacoity and stole the research material. He said that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal was
illegally appointed as a Director of Nehru Memorial Museum and Library.
He said that he was enrolled as a Ph.D. Scholar at Allahabad University in
the year 1984 and one Prof.K.C.Joshi was his guide. He said that his father
died in the year 1995. He said that he started doing serious research only in
the year 1988, when grants were sanctioned to him by U.G.C. and National
Council for Historical Research. He said that when he came to Delhi in the
year 1988 he stayed in the dormitory on the 4th floor in Bihar Bhawan at
Kautaliya Marg and after a few years he took a room on rent at Flat No.204,
South Avenue, allotted to one Dr.R.K.Kusumaria, a Member of Parliament W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 7 of 58 from Madhya Pradesh, from which room he was evicted in a year which he
did not remember. Thereafter he resided at a place which he did not
remember exactly but was somewhere along the road from Teen Murti
House to Race Course. He said that he had sent a telegram to the District
Magistrate Allahabad of divine knowledge bestowed upon him that one lakh
gold mohars were hidden under the earth at a place in Allahabad and this
information leaked. Hoping to find proof of the exact location of the place
in Allahabad where the gold mohars were lying hidden, under the belief that
the same would probably be on a map or a writing on a piece of paper,
thieves broke into the room where he was staying and threw out his
belongings. He met the Director or may be the Deputy Director of Nehru
Memorial Museum and Library who was kind enough to permit him to stay
in a room and keep his belongings next to the room of Sh.Madhusudan
Bhangar, the caretaker of the Teen Murti Complex. He kept his belongings
at a room in the Teen Murti complex. A dacoity took place and his
intellectual properties, meaning the research material collected by him, were
stolen by Sh.O.P.Kejariwal and his goons to illegally publish a book using
his stolen intellectual properties. He made a grievance of a Civil Court
permitting a decree of eviction passed against him to be executed by the
landlord; complaining that the courts were overlooking serious issues
concerning corruption in society and were busy with mundane issues like
solving inter-personal disputes and in particular the eviction petition filed by
his landlord. Becoming extremely emotional during arguments he referred
to the events of May, 2013. (What were they!) He alleged that
Dr.Manmohan Singh, the Prime Minister of India, was a Punjabi terrorist
and has destroyed his life. He claimed that at the instance of the Prime
Minister of India, in connivance with the officers of Delhi Police, a learned W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 8 of 58 Judge in Rohini Court District Complex has illegally executed an eviction
decree obtained by his landlord and his landlady, whom he calls Sindhi
gangsters (probably for the reason they are from Sindh). He stated that after
illegally evicting him from the house the landlord has demolished the roof of
the house. He stated that left on the street to fend for himself, opposite the
house from where he has been evicted, as a part of a global conspiracy, one
night accompanied by police officers Dr.Manmohan Singh came and
removed the street light under which he used to write the petitions and
applications which he files in the courts. He wanted a case of dacoity to be
registered against the Prime Minister of India and prayed to us that contempt
action be initiated against the Prime Minister of India, whom he repeatedly
labels as corrupt, as also against the police officers who brought the Prime
Minister in a jeep and assisted him in removing the street light. Aforesaid is
a brief summary of the inchoate arguments he had advanced on 23 rd and 25th
September, 2013. On September 30, 2013, he commenced his arguments by
stating that Professor Ravinder Kumar was poisoned in a function organized
by Ms.Promila Thapar because Professor Ravinder Kumar was appointed as
a mediator between him and Sh.O.P.Kejariwal. He said that he had studied
in the National Archives of India to collect research material in the year
1991-92 and that a book was published by Sh.O.P.Kejariwal with reference
to his i.e. O.P.Kejariwal‟s Ph.D. thesis, but after using his i.e. Sh.Uma
Shankar Pandey‟s, intellectual properties. Meaning thereby, the research
material gathered by him which was stolen by the goons set on him by
Sh.O.P.Kejariwal was used. He said that the eviction decree passed against
him had been challenged by him in the court of Sh.S.K.Sarvaria against
orders passed by Mr.Sumit Dass, Senior Civil Judge-cum-Rent Controller
but the learned Rent Controller had executed the decree in a pre-planned W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 9 of 58 conspiracy with corrupt police officers and the Prime Minister of India.
Contrary to his claim made while arguing on 23 rd and 25th September, 2013,
that he was living on the street the light whereof was stolen by the Prime
Minister of India to prevent him from petitioning the courts, arguing on
September 30, 2013, he said that on being evicted from the 3rd floor of house
No.F-3/46, Sector-15, Rohini he was forced to stay with his brother, Mr.Ved
Vyas Pandey. He said that he wanted the State to provide him a house
because it was the obligation of the State to do so because the
accommodation with his brother was inadequate. When we asked him the
address where his brother resided, he said that he cannot disclose the same
because the corrupt police on directions of the corrupt Prime Minister of
India, who was a Punjabi terrorist, would trouble his brother. He argued that
the Punjabi terrorists have captured the Delhi Police because all
Commissioners of Police, including the present incumbent, were Punjabis.
He said that the District & Sessions Judge, North Delhi District was rude to
his brother Sh.Ved Vyas Pandey who was a witness to the dacoity which
took place when his landlord evicted him. He said that when the corrupt
police evicted him from the tenanted premises owned by the landlord
Sh.Sanjay Darira his property was stolen. He said that his goods could not
be entrusted on superdari to Sh.Sanjay Darira. He said that when the dacoity
was on he had called his brother who was thus a witness. 6. After hearing him patiently at the post-lunch sessions spread over
three days, as the hearing proceeded on September 30, 2013, we asked him
as to what proof he had of having researched as per his claim and did he
have any proof of the conspiracy hatched against him and what was the role
played by the conspirators. At that question he got agitated and said that
since everything was stolen what proof could he furnish. He said that even W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 10 of 58 today while he was sitting outside this court preparing for his case, when the
court orderly attached to this Court came to inform him that the matter had
been called for hearing, as he rose, somebody took away his papers in a
jiffy. Shifting towards his right to demonstrate to us as to how he moved
when the court orderly attached to this Court told him that his case had been
called out, he repositioned himself and said that the hidden forces unleashed
on him by the corrupt Prime Minister of India had managed to remove some
papers from his file which he had brought in the court. He got very
agitated. We asked him how he was sustaining himself in Delhi for so long.
He said that initially he was receiving a stipend while pursuing his Ph.D. and
that thereafter pertaining to some project of British Historiography of India
in the 19th Century he was given grants for doing research and that he had
also been awarded a fellowship by Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Fund as also
from Indian Council of Historical Research. When asked what was the
monthly stipend he said that it varied between `1,500 to `2,000 per month.
He hastened to add that this was a ploy to entrap him to misuse his
intellectual properties because the research material was supplied by him to
the sponsoring body, which in turn published articles. He refused to give an
answer of what he was doing after 1997 and said that he understood
psychology and the reason why the Court was quizzing him so. He said that
he feared that this Court would dispose of all his applications and petitions
and warned the court that no orders should be passed except in
Crl.M.No.9012/2013. He specifically told us that we should not call for and
look into the record of the proceedings pending before Judges in the District
Judiciary. He said that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal had been using his research
material to publish articles in newspapers; but he could give no proof
because thieves and gangsters have, with impunity, plundered his W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 11 of 58 intellectual properties. He reiterated that he is a scholar of international
repute and that whatever he says is evidenced under Section 45 of the Indian
Evidence Act. Thus no proof is required. He concluded by informing us
that on September 25, 2013 he had filed an application, which we find is at
page No.4209 of the record of the writ petition, as per which he wants this
Court to take on record an amended memo of parties, in which, apart from
62 respondents which he claims are respondents in the writ petition, 58 more
are sought to be impleaded as respondents, and some as diverse as : 7. He concluded on the note that under no circumstances should this
Court dispose of the writ petition filed by him or any application filed by
him in the writ petition, much less any proceeding initiated by him before
any Judge in a court subordinate to this court. He said that at present he
was only enforcing his right to a residence to be provided to him by the
State; which had to be either suite No.7 or suite No.8 at Western Court,
Janpath. He warned that if provoked he could burn the courts or commit
suicide. 8. We now proceed to pen profile the litigious journey covered in
W.P.(Crl.) No. 861/1997 filed by Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey in this Court. 9. In the writ petition, he pleads that he was a scholar of International
Law and was an International lawyer appearing in important matters in
courts in India, World Court and United Nations. He claims to be the
President of the World Association of Scholars. He pleads that he seeks a
mandamus to compel public authorities to perform their duties and was
aggrieved by the deprivation of his intellectual properties in the prime of his
life and being subjected to a systematic oppression and mental torture. His
intellectual assets were being misused. He pleads that Sh.Indrajit Gupta, the
Home Minister was a guilty communist conspirator who interfered to protect
O.P.Kejariwal with respect to a complaint made by him on August 30, 1997.
He pleads that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal is a Government servant and is a cheat and
a thug. He pleads that Sh.S.Jaipal Reddy, the Union Minister of Information
and Broadcasting was shielding Sh.O.P.Kejariwal and thus both were gang
men. He pleads that both Ministers are law-breakers and conspirators. He
pleads that the Union Home Minister has been abetting and causing damage
to him by perpetuating misappropriation of his intellectual properties. He
claims that he was being harassed, assaulted, humiliated, insulted and
defamed by the gangsters of the Home Ministry. He pleads that the Union
Home Minister was unauthorizedly occupying suites No.6 and 7 in the
Western Court Building Complex on Janpath. He pleads that non-
enforcement of his fundamental rights negate the rule of law and his human
rights as per the U.N.Universal Declaration dated December 10, 1948. 10. He seeks the relief that the Union Home Minister be compelled to
perform his public duties by directing the Commissioner of Police New
Delhi to register FIRs on complaints made by him. He prays that the Home
Minister and Sh.O.P.Kejariwal as also Sh.Jaipal Reddy, all of whom have
been impleaded as respondents, should be arrested. He prays that the Union W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 13 of 58 Home Minister should be evicted from the suites occupied by him at
Western Court Janpath and that security be provided to him and an
accommodation at Western Court be provided to him till cases filed by him
in India and at United Nations are over. He seeks damages in sum of `10
crores. He also prays that Jain Commission of Inquiry Report (pertaining to
the death of Sh.Rajeev Gandhi, Late Prime Minister of India) be not tabled
till his cases are decided. 11. In the caption of the writ petitions it is stated: 12. Listed for the first time in Court along with Crl.M.No.6588/1997, in
which he pleads that he was assaulted on December 05, 1997 by gangsters
set loose by the respondents in the writ petition i.e. O.P.Kejariwal, Indrajit
Gupta and S.Jaipal Reddy, he prays for compensation to be paid in sum of
`10 crores. The writ petition and the miscellaneous application were listed
before a Division Bench on December 10, 1997 and were simply adjourned
for February 19, 1998. 13. Thereafter commences the long journey lasting till today and during
which, Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey has filed as many as 97 civil miscellaneous
applications in the criminal contempt petition. 14. Within five days of the order dated December 10, 1997 being passed,
he filed Crl.M.No.6494/1997, on December 15, 1997 praying that his case
be transferred to another Bench, which application was dismissed on
December 16, 1997. On January 08, 1998, he filed RA No.4/1998 seeking W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 14 of 58 review of the order dated December 15, 1997, which was dismissed on
January 16, 1998. He pursued the matter further on the same day i.e.
January 16, 1998, by filing Crl.M.No.261A/1998, seeking an apology from
the Registrar of this Court and compensation in sum of `10 lakhs; pleading
that the Registrar of this Court and other officers have entered into a
criminal conspiracy to deny him physical access to the premises of Jawahar
Lal Nehru Memorial Fund (probably meaning Library). The application was
dismissed on January 19, 1998; and he sought review of the said order by
filing RA No.5/1998 on January 21, 1998, making confusing pleadings. The
application was dismissed on January 22, 1998. He thereafter filed
Crl.M.No.497/1998 on January 27, 1998, praying that directions be issued
for renewal of his membership of the Nehru Memorial Library at Teen
Murti, which was dismissed on January 28, 1998 observing that the prayer
was beyond the scope of the writ petition filed. He thereafter filed
Crl.M.No.939/1998 seeking review of the order dated January 28, 1997, in
which he made derogatory remarks against the Judges who had dealt with
the writ petition filed by him as also the miscellaneous applications filed. 15. Vide order dated February 19, 1998, this Court took cognizance of the
derogatory language used in Crl.M.No.939/1998 and formed a prima facie
opinion that the same amounted to a contempt of this Court and thus a notice
was framed and served upon the petitioner to show cause as to why
proceedings under the Contempt of Courts Act be not initiated against him.
It was directed that the Registry would put the notice in a separate file,
registering a contempt proceedings against Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey on the
Courts own motion. Hearing of Criminal Writ 861/1997 and pending
applications was deferred indefinitely, recording that the same would be
taken up for hearing after the fate of the contempt proceedings initiated W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 15 of 58 against him concluded. Thus, Crl.M.No.939/1998 is still pending
adjudication. 16. Thereafter, the writ petition never proceeded ahead for the reason,
Criminal Contempt No.3/1998 on the Courts own motion commenced its
journey against Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey and till date is meandering its way
with leisure. 17. We would not be wrong if we would say that Sh.Uma Shankar
Pandey has made a nuisance of himself and has bombarded this Court with
applications after applications, sometimes in the contempt proceedings and
mostly in the criminal writ petition filed by him. 18. Listing out further applications filed by him, on the onward march of
the history of the proceedings pertaining to the criminal writ petition filed by
Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey, hearing whereof was indefinitely adjourned on
February 18, 1998, we find that on the same day he filed
Crl.M.No.942/1998, in which he prayed that the SHO of P.S.Chankaya Puri
be directed to register FIRs on all complaints made by him. The said
application is pending. 19. On March 26, 1998 he filed Crl.M.No.1800/1998, which is still
pending, in which he prayed that the matter may be referred to a
Constitution Bench comprising 7 Judges. On May 23, 1998 he filed
Crl.M.No.3219/1998 praying that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal be suspended and
appointment of Sh.Pramod Mahajan be stayed. The application awaits
adjudication. On July 16, 1998 he filed Crl.M.No.4094/1998 praying for
review of the order dated May 25, 1998 which was dismissed on July 17,
1998. He followed it up by filing Crl.M.No.5346/1998 on September 02,
1998 and Crl.M.No.5735/1998 on September 23, 1998, and pithily stated, he
claimed that a gang of four people set on him by Sh.O.P.Kejariwal had W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 16 of 58 threatened him on September 17, 1998 between 8:30 PM and 9:00 PM and
thus he should be provided with security. He has pleaded that he was not
being permitted to make oral mention in Court. He pleads that prejudice is
caused to him due to delay in registering criminal cases against
Sh.O.P.Kejariwal. The applications were dismissed on October 22, 1998,
but before that, on October 06, 1998 he filed Crl.M.No.5873/1998 praying
that all reliefs prayed for in the writ petition should be allowed. In the
pleadings of the application he makes reference to Sh.O.P.Kejariwal stealing
his intellectual properties and the SHO of the concerned police station not
registering an FIR pertaining to the offence of dacoity. He refers to one
Prof.S.M.Sakhdar of Jawahar Lal Nehru University and complains against
him of trying to pressurize him to compromise the matter. He pleads that
„Bania‟ criminals have been threatening and terrorizing him. The
application was dismissed. In between he has also filed
Crl.M.No.5945/1998, once again seeking that by way of interim relief all
prayers sought in the writ petition be allowed; which application was also
dismissed on October 22, 1998. He has thereafter filed Crl.M.No.6003/1998
praying that the record of National Human Rights Commission be
summoned, which was dismissed on October 22, 1998. In this application,
he claims that Ms.Sushma Swaraj, the then Minister for Information and
Broadcasting ran away to become the Chief Minister of Delhi because she
was apprehending action against her by the Delhi High Court. He also
pleads that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal stole literature titled „God‟s Will and Gods and
Goddesses‟. This application has also been dismissed. He then filed
Crl.M.No.6637/1998 on November 07, 1998 seeking legal aid in the form of
cash assistance which was dismissed on November 16, 1998 holding that
legal aid in the form of cash assistance could not be granted. 20. He thereafter filed Crl.M.No.7184/1998, praying that order dated July
17, 1998 (a non-existing order) be implemented. In the pleadings he claims
that there exists some nexus between India and the United Kingdoms and
that officers of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry have been
cheating and defrauding him. That one Ms.Sudha Gupta was murdered due
to evasive attitude of the police. He states that he was entitled to publish his
research papers and thus urgently required orders that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal
should return his intellectual properties. The said application was dismissed
on December 01, 1998. At the dawn of the next year, he filed
Crl.M.No.585/1999 praying that arrest warrants be issued against
Sh.O.P.Kejariwal. In this application, he pleads that a criminal gang has
been active in India in connivance with Oxford University Press, New York
Press and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to deprive him of his
intellectual properties by illegally publishing them in India and abroad. He
pleads that a T.V. serial „Sarbashaktiman‟ was produced by distorting ideas
originally conceived of by him in the course of his autobiographical
writings. He pleads that Sh.Soli J.Sorabjee the then Attorney General of
India was a British Spy and was acting against the interest of the country.
He has annexed with the application an article referring to Sh.Soli J.Sorabjee
suing the publication „Asian Age‟ for defamation. Issuing a warning to him
to desist from filing such applications, the same was dismissed on January
27, 1998. 21. We have briefly referred to the contents of the pleadings of the 17
applications filed by Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey in the formative period of the
litigation covering one year to illustratively note facts which would be
relevant for our discussion to follow. But being of the opinion that such pen
profiling, howsoever brief it may be, by noting each and every application W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 18 of 58 filed subsequently; the number whereof is 76 remaining applications, would
consume unnecessary time of the reader of our opinion, we are self-
advisingly fast tracking the recording of the pleadings constituting various
applications filed by Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey by clubbing the co-related
pleadings in the applications i.e. listing the applications not with reference to
the serial number of the filing but with reference to the commonality of the
subject matter of the pleadings and breaking the period into two i.e. upto the
year 2004 and the period thereafter. 22. In Crl.M.No.591/1999 he claims that the Government obstructed him
when he attempted to bring to the notice of Mr.Kofi Annan, the Secretary
General of United Nations his grievances. He claims to be a witness to the
murder of Sh.Rajiv Gandhi and seeks a prohibition of criminal proceedings
to be initiated against him. Claiming to be a scholar he wants the Court to
declare that any statement made by him be treated as evidence under Section
45 of the Evidence Act. He pleads that the State is preventing him from
completing his Ph.D. thesis on the subject „Impact of British Colonialism on
Indian Political Thought Process with Reference to Dadabhai Naoroji‟. He
pleads that he has executed a Will as per which his last rites should be
performed at the U.N.Headquarters and makes a grievance of the Will being
looted at a dacoity. As per Crl.M.No.3754/2005 he alleges that Kofi Annan
has breached a promise made in India to stop human right violations in India
and prays that Kofi Annan be summoned. In Crl.M.No.1286/1999 he pleads
that his academic life has been ruined because of loss of accommodation.
He pleads that he is a Brahmin conducting „Universal Dharmashashtric
Interrogatories‟ as a part of his fundamental rights and that five of his
friends have been crushed to death in Delhi. He annexes a newspaper report
along with the application highlighting corruption. Vide W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 19 of 58 Crl.M.No.1543/1999, 1800/1999, 2214/1999, 4228/1999, 4695/1999,
7640/1999, 9586/1999, 11374/1999, 1761/2000, 1762/2000, 46/2001,
53/2001, 612/2001 and 5642/2004, he inter-alia, names Sh.Inder Kumar
Gujral, Ms.Sonia Gandhi, Ms.Rabri Devi, Sh.Lalu Prasad Yadav,
Sh.Pramod Mahajan, Sh.L.K.Advani, Sh.Arun Jaitley, Sh.S.Jaipal Reddy,
Sh.K.Natwar Singh, Sh.Madan Lal Khurana, Ms.Uma Bharti and
Dr.Shankar Dayal Sharma (the Ex-President of India) all of whom were
known public figures or Chief Ministers, Ministers as also the President of
India at the relevant period of time when the applications were filed. He
also names in these applications various police officers in Delhi and one
judicial officer. 23. Sieving his pleadings in the applications which are repetitive,
incoherent and prolix, the concentrate of the concoction is that the public
figures and politicians were corrupt and were shielding the corrupt police
officers; all the public figures and politicians named, as also the police
officers were a part of a global conspiracy hatched by the Governments of
USA, U.K., France, Pakistan, Nepal and India to ensure that his intellectual
properties were misused. He latches on to newspaper reports reporting
adversely or critically on the functioning of these high public office holders
such as the Prime Ministers and Union Cabinet Ministers. He has been
picking on each and every person who functioned as the Commissioner as
also the Joint Commissioner of Police during this period covering 1999-
2004 and has highlighted the failed and blotched up investigations by the
police pertaining to the Jesicca Lal murder case. The name of O.P.Kejariwal
looms large at the backdrop of most of these applications. 24. In the period post 2005 till today, we find that Sh.Uma Shankar
Pandey has filed nearly 50 applications in which the shift of the W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 20 of 58 blameworthiness is on the shoulders of Sh.Shiv Raj Patil, who held offices
as Union Minister for Home, Sh.Arjun Singh, the Union Minister for Human
Resource Development, Sh.P.Chidambram, the Union Minister for Finance
for some period and thereafter the Union Minister for Home Affairs and the
current Prime Minister of India, Dr.Manmohan Singh. During this period
we find that the tone and tenor of the pleadings has turned acerbic. Of
course, Sh.O.P.Kejariwal continues to loom large at the backdrop.
Highlighting newspaper reports pertaining to corruption, be it match fixing
scandals, sale of spectrum, Sh.Lalu Prasad Yadav (Chief Minister of Bihar)
being an accused in the alleged fodder scandal, he pleads that as a part of the
global conspiracy alleged by him, these people have managed to gain
political power using his intellectual properties to destroy India. Wherever
there is a reference to the name of the current Prime Minister of India,
Dr.Manmohan Singh, he highlights the religion of the Prime Minister to
allege that he is a Punjabi terrorist who has managed to reach the highest
executive public position in India. 25. Most critical is the fact that since July 2013 his attention seems to
have shifted to embrace even Arvind Kejariwal who has founded a political
party called Am Admi Party and a colleague of his named Manish Sisodia,
and as noted above in a amended memo of parties filed by him he has sought
to implead said two persons apart from 56 others as further respondents. 26. It would be relevant to highlight at this stage that before the court,
grievances of Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey surfaced in late 1997, by which time
the Janta Dal Government headed by Sh.H.D.Deve Gowda had demitted
office on April 21, 1997 and the Government headed by Sh.I.K.Gujral was
in place from April 21, 1997 and lasted till March 19, 1998. The Union
Minister for Home Affairs was Sh.Indrajit Gupta, a known public figure and W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 21 of 58 a leading member of the Communist Party of India. Sh.S.Jaipal Reddy was
the Minister in-charge of Information and Broadcasting. Sh.O.P.Kejariwal
had taken over as the Director of Nehru Memorial Museum and Library in
the year 1997 after Prof.Ravinder Kumar's term as Director came to an end
in said year. Sh.O.P.Kejariwal had functioned before that as the Director
General of Doordarshan under the Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting. The BJP government under the Prime Ministership of
Sh.Atal Bihari Bajpayee lasted from March 19, 1998 till May 22, 2004 and
thereafter till date the Congress led government under the Prime
Ministership of Dr.Manmohan Singh has continued since May 22, 2004. 27. From the pleadings and the arguments of Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey we
find that when the writ petition was filed in late 1997 the persons targeted
were the then Union Minister for Home Affairs and the Union Minister for
Information and Broadcasting. Persons named thereafter between the years
1998 and 2004 are Ms.Sushma Swaraj, Sh.L.K.Advani, Sh.Madan Lal
Khurana, Ms.Uma Bharti, Sh.Arun Jaitley, Sh.Pramod Mahajan. Thereafter
the applications filed in the year 2005 onwards we find the focus of
accusations shifting to Sh.Lalu Prasad Yadav, Sh.Shiv Raj Patil,
Sh.P.Chidambaram, Ms.Sonia Gandhi, Sh.Pranab Mukherjee and
Dr.Manmohan Singh when the Congress led government was formed in the
Centre on May 22, 2004, all of whom except Ms.Sonia Gandhi were either
the Prime Minister or Ministers in the Union Cabinet and Ms.Sonia Gandhi
was the President of the Congress party. 28. From the inchoate submissions made by Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey,
which we have noted in paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 above, and from his pleadings
in the writ petition as also the various applications filed, we find that the
centre point of his grievances is that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal stole his intellectual W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 22 of 58 properties i.e. research material gathered by him in the course of his research
for the dissertation 'Impact of British Colonialism on Indian Political
Thought with Reference to Dadabhai Naoroji´. He claims that he was
enrolled as a scholar for Ph.D. with Allahabad University in the year 1984,
but claims to have come to Delhi to gather research material available in the
National Archives and Nehru Memorial Library and Museum at Teen Murti
House at Delhi in the year 1988 and claims that he firstly resided in a
dormitory on the fourth floor of Bihar Bhawan at Kautilya Marg for some
years and took on rent a room in Flat No.204, South Avenue from a Member
of Parliament when he had to leave Bihar Bhawan. He claims to have
shifted to a place not known to him where a theft took place because
somebody learnt that he had knowledge of a treasure in the form of 1 lakh
gold mohars lying hidden somewhere in Allahabad and thus the object of the
theft was to find the paper on which particulars of the place were noted by
him. He claims that he was accessing Nehru Memorial Library for research
purposes and that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal, who had become a Director of the
library in the year 1997, taking pity on him, had allowed him to keep his
belongings, which included the research material gathered by him in a room
adjoining the room of the security in-charge and that one night
Sh.O.P.Kerjiwal and his gangsters committed dacoity when his research
papers were taken away. His grievance is that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal has used
the research material gathered by him in publishing a book, which we find
was published in the year 1998 by Sh.O.P.Kejariwal and bears the title: 29. The preface written by the author to the book as also the foreword
thereto by Prof.A.L.Basham, a professor in History, would evidence that W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 23 of 58 Dr.O.P.Kejariwal's Ph.D. dissertation which he had submitted somewhere
between the year 1970-1975 was read by Prof.A.L.Basham who strongly
recommended it to be published, and inspired by the words of
Prof.A.L.Basham, Dr.O.P.Kejariwal updated his thesis and published the
book in the year 1988. 30. We have troubled ourselves to read the book and for which we
express our gratitude to him, for but for him we would not have read the
book. Bengal during the period 1784-1838 from the backdrop. As is known
to all, the Asiatic Society of Bengal was founded in the year 1784 by Sir
William Jones. The society is known for its pioneering work in laying the
foundations of Indological Studies. Collecting and studying manuscripts,
coins, inscriptions and monuments, the members of the society laid bare the
broad outlines of ancient Indian History and re-discovered the great classics
of Sanskrit literature and its epics such as Kalidasa's Sakuntala and the Rig
Veda. Writings on the forgotten umpires of Ashoka and Maurya were
recorded by the society, initially by Sir William Jones thereafter by his
successors H.T.Colebrooke, H.H.Wilson and James Prinsep. 31. The author, Dr.O.P.Kejariwal, in his book, has examined the evidence
supporting the widely-held view that British Studies on India were
motivated largely by political reasons - by the need for knowledge to
understand how the Britishers should rule in India. 32. We do not know the contents of the stated research material gathered
by Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey, if indeed he did gather some, but we have no
reasons to disbelieve that he gathered none. The only clue we have is with
reference to the topic of his research as he tells us: 'Impact of British
Colonialism on Indian Political Thought Process with Reference to
Dadabhai Naoroji'. 33. Having read the book authored by Sh.O.P.Kejariwal which has been
published by Oxford University Press, we find no reference to any research
material impacting British Colonialism Policy except the material which
would suggest that British studies on India were motivated largely by
political reasons - the need for knowledge and understanding of the ruled by
the ruler. The only thing we could find of relevance, having some
connection with the possible research material gathered by Sh.Uma Shankar
Pandey, is in the conclusions drawn by the author, where the author opines
that the apathy of the Government towards institutes of oriental learning was
not directed towards the Bengali society evidenced by the fact that the Royal
Asiatic Society in England shared the same fate; and the possible
connectivity could be an attempt to crush nationalism and in that context a
connection with, how colonization of India by the British impacted the
political history of India. 34. As regards Dadabhai Naoroji, we find that he was the author of a
classic book : 'Poverty and Un-British Rule in India' published in the year
1867 in which he developed the 'Drain Theory' according to which the
British carried away India's wealth by taxing the people in a way which
promoted British trade and manufacture of cloth and in return impoverishing
the Indian people. His thesis, on which he was gathering research material,
would therefore possibly have a connection with the writing of Dadabhai
Naoroji but the said writing of Dadabhai Naoroji would have no concern or
connection with the topic on which Sh.O.P.Kejariwal has authored a book. 35. Not only do we find an impossibility of the use of any research
material collected by him in the book authored by Sh.O.P.Kejariwal; not
upon appraisal of the contents and the subject matter of the book, but from
the fact that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal published his book in the year 1988. Thus we W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 25 of 58 have a conclusive fact, incapable of being rebutted, that whatever research
material was used by Sh.O.P.Kejariwal for writing the book had been
accessed by him lastly till the year 1988, and not thereafter. It is in this
context that it assumes importance that as per him he came to Delhi for
research work for the first time in the year 1988 and stayed in a dormitory
on the fourth floor of Bihar Bhawan and after a few years he rented room at
Flat No.204, South Avenue, New Delhi without any problem. He does not
tell us the year when he was evicted from the flat, but gives traces when he
states that the first time he was assaulted and theft of some property of his
took place in the year 1994. But what is relevant is his claim of his
intellectual properties being stolen in the year 1997, and these intellectual
properties are his research material. His tirade against Sh.O.P.Kejariwal
commences in the year 1997. 36. His inchoate pleadings and oral submissions throw light on a very
important fact. As per him, Sh.O.P.Kejariwal permitted him to occupy a
room and keep his belongings in Teen Murti Complex from where he claims
he was thrown out after being assaulted and claims that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal
stole his research material. If we believe him that he was a research scholar
visiting Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, it is apparent that
Sh.O.P.Kejariwal, who was the then Director of Nehru Memorial Museum
and Library in the year 1997 had obviously taken pity on him and to help
him out had permitted him to keep his belongings temporarily at an
outhouse quarter within the precincts of Teen Murti Complex till when he
could find alternative accommodation, which probably he could not find and
Sh.O.P.Kejariwal could obviously not allow him to reside endlessly within
the precincts of Teen Murti Complex and thus got him evicted. It is this
which has triggered of the unfortunate self-destructive journey undertaken W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 26 of 58 by Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey. In any case, we highlight that O.P.Kejariwal,
having published his book in the year 1988, could under no circumstances
have used any research material of the petitioner and thus it is crystal clear
that everything pleaded and argued by the petitioner is a figment of his
imagination. 37. We have thus two reasons to hold that everything pleaded and spoken
of by him is a figment of his imagination. The first is our reading of the
book authored by Sh.O.P.Kejariwal and our opinion thereon, which
somebody may criticise as the subjective opinion of Judges, but we would
caution the critic that if the charge is of theft of research material gathered
by a researcher the contents of the allegedly stolen publication and the
possible contents of the material gathered with reference to the topic of
research, it would be a legitimate exercise to theoretically discuss the
content of the possible material of the two topics. The second is that
Sh.O.P.Kejariwal published his book in the year 1988. 38. To sample a flavour of how he intends to prove the hundreds of
complaints filed by him which are pending before different learned
Metropolitan Magistrates in Delhi, we may refer to Complaint Case
No.9460/1 dated January 20, 2006 pending before the Court of Ms.Navita
Kumari Bagha. The complaint is actually filed in the year 2003 and it is
apparent that the re-numbered complaint with the date is on account of the
fact that the matter was transferred to a new court. In Delhi, if a new court
is created and matters are received by it on transfer, a new number is
assigned. The complaint is the usual theory of alleging O.P.Kejariwal
troubling him. It makes a reference to Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey being
injured on April 10, 2003. He refers to acts of dacoity. He states that he has
spoken to Mr.Yashwant Sinha, the Union External Affairs Minister. He W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 27 of 58 makes a grievance that Sh.Jaswant Singh is favouring the accused. We find
that in said complaint Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey's statement was first
recorded on October 26, 2010 followed by a further statement recorded on
November 30, 2010, followed by further statement recorded on March 26,
2011. Thereafter on June 30, 2011, May 15, 2012, August 01, 2012,
February 26, 2013 and thereafter on June 04, 2013. The statements run into
120 pages. All and sundry things are spoken of. The statement dated June
26, 2011 speaks of a DNA test conducted by a laboratory in Hyderabad on
the samples obtained by the Delhi High Court from Sh.N.D.Tiwari. He
speaks about autobiographical writings relating to Pt.Madan Mohan Malviya
and claims that they have been used by the Delhi High Court and the
Supreme Court of India under Section 44 of the Evidence Act. To get a
flavour of what he speaks, we reproduce his statement recorded on June 04,
2013. He has stated on oath as under :- (This being a verbatim reproduction and hence the grammatical,
 spelling and syntax errors) 39. The statement is a reflection of the paranoia of Sh.Uma Shankar
Pandey, which ranges from vague feelings of being persecuted. In the
absence of any facts that support such perceptions stated by him, the
statement is a highly developed, organized and fantastic set of beliefs that
are clearly delusional. The firmly held belief of his, lacking any basis in
fact, is without any objective evidence or rational argument. He refers to
corporate terrorist Anil Aggarwal and his associates committing fraud in
connivance with multi-national agents from abroad. It appears that the Anil
Aggarwal he refers to is the Chairman of the Sterlite group of Industries,
which has been in the news pertaining to some aluminium refinery set up by
the company. Sh.Anil Aggarwal is also associated with companies having
the name Vedanta and we find a reference in the statement to the Cairn-
Vedanta deal involving US$8.48 billion. He states in his statement on oath
that one Arun Kumar Aggarwal who was the agent of Anil Aggarwal filed a
Public Interest Litigation which was a surrogate petition, to have the same W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 33 of 58 dismissed, so that a judicial stamp of approval was accorded to the Cairn-
Vedanta deal. He uses the word „Noora Kushti‟ meaning shadow wrestling.
He deposes: „Any order by such gross misleading and misguiding detailed
in the FIR, I had mentioned that it shall be a obiter dicta, and have no force
of final judgment.‟ He then proceeds to make statement against Arvind
Kejariwal, the founder of the Aam Admi Party and alleges that the party
obtained registration with the Election Commission of India (ECI) by fraud.
He states : „the clearance that he deceitfully obtained from ECI was a prima
facie illegal act of usurpation of judicial powers/jurisdiction of trial courts,
by media trial caused by these offenders, including editors, contemnors, TOI
and HT and others. It was done in sub-silentio of the criminal trial cases
going on against the accused.‟ 40. The statement made on oath is a mumble-jumble of events published
in newspapers and the fantasies of Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey. In what
manner the same hurt him has not been stated for the reason obviously they
do not concern him. The contents of his complaints are equally illusory. To
sample one, we refer to the complaint bearing No.M/43/09 pending
currently in the court of Sh.Narender Kumar Sharma. Filed on June 03,
2002 (the current number of the year 2009 is due to the fact that upon
transfer to a fresh court the matter was renumbered), the complaint is
captioned: and its pleadings are most inchoate. They read as under:- offences - FIRs of complainant have already been pending
 against heinous/cognizable offences committed by accused - all
 named. Since all police from local to PHQ - are accused -
 Respondents, they, in revenge and retaliation, in all nexus with
 accused, specially O.P.Kejariwal, being bribed and influenced
 by accused, have not been complying with Cr.P.C . provisions of
 law u/s. 153 and others, and registering FIRs. Their all reports
 have been rejected, challenged together with their (IOs)‟s
 credit impeached u/s. 155 Evidence Act, 1872, and fresh
 complaints filed against them all in accordance with law. (ii) That on 29.5.2002, moment complainant informed the
 Security Officer T.M.H. and SHO - „accused‟ - Ramesh
 Chander P.S. Ch.Puri, New Delhi; Criminal gangsters -
 conspirators - O.P.Kejariwal, Ajay Raj Sharma, Commissioner
 of Police and these named accused became active, revengeful
 and retaliatory in action by illegally further committing dacoity
 of these intellectual properties in 7 big bags, 2 boxes, bed-
 holder with documents - inside it - in criminal conspiracy, they
 assaulted me first at NMML, TMH, New Delhi and I was
 harassed and assaulted by SHO, Ramesh Chander. SHO
 threatened me at P.S. He used challenging words against Ld.
 MMs/CMM complaint dated 29/5/2002 be seen - is enclosed. (iii) That due to lapses, delays and in consideration of
 criminal complaints in time, the „accused‟, at investigation of
 conspirator - dacoit - A.R.Sharma, Commissioner of Police,
 and accused O.P.Kejariwal - have caused further offences and
 abetted the all offences reported by complainant. (iv) That there are 4 „Sharmas‟ involved in theft and daocity
 at T.M.H. New Delhi. A Sharma - nexus has been fetched,
 bribed and manipulated to favour O.P.Kejariwal because they
 are getting extra facility and money to do offences. (v) That 5 J.Orders of D.H.Court, 4 Directors of NHRC, and
 other orders and directions to ensure safety of complainant at
 NMML, TMH, N.Delhi have been intentionally,
 conspiratorially, and completely flouted, disobeyed and
 disregarded to favour O.P.Kejariwal who has flooded money to
 them. The police from bottom to top have been giving fake
 stories/evidences to mislead them (illegible). (vi) That during pendency of Crl.Writ No.861/97 (DHC) and
 Crl.Writ No.D-8779/95 (SCI) - these criminal gangsters -
 dacoits - have committed day light dacoity assaulting and
 threatening to kill and harassing the complainant. (vii) That before further criminal investigation ....(illegible)
 are ordered to be launched, local police, ACP P.S.
 Chankyapuri, New Delhi should be directed to restore these
 intellectual properties boxes and others at the „spot‟ of dacoity,
 theft/robbery committed at store room of NMML, TMH, New
 Delhi, and in compliance of 5 orders of DHC. Safety of them
 be ensured. It is only after making occurrence - Reports on the
 basis of FIRs - against dacoity, robbery, cheating and attempts
 to murder and tampering of evidences and ors. in cooperation
 of S.Tiwari - SI and complainant that any other request, after
 registration of FIRs and then investigations, - that can be
 attempted/rested upon. (viii) That complainant has made all written complaints to CP
 Commissioner of Police (PHO) (Crl.FIR.D.No.609-
 C/27/7/2000/JCP/NDR/NHQ/ND - be recalled and seen, CP,
 A.R.Sharma is the most irresponsible person instigating real
 position to cause these offences. He has not instructed local
 police so far, to register FIRs instructed local police so far, to
 register FIRs against ... (illegible), dacoity, tampering of
 evidence. (ix) That some record of SCI pending Criminal writs/DHC
 writs (cri.) and others - all of complainant - are being
 tampered by accused - named above. (x) That some instant order for prevention of these
 cognizable offences - should be passed to appropriate
 authority/person. (xi) That apprehend these crl. gangsters - dacoits - police -
 may cause physical injuries - to complainant violating orders
 of DH Court. PRAYER (i) Order and direction be passed by passing order on
 „search warrant‟ „pending‟ against O.P.Kejariwal -
 Govt./public servant; Madhusudan Bhangar - Caretaker of
 NMML, TMH, New Delhi - to appropriate authority/persons to
 restore the intellectual properties, boxes and all bags of papers
 relating to researches/studies of complainant - Ph. Scholar and
 to uphold rule of law/status quo. (ii) That order and direction be passed to dacoit - Com. Of
 Police A.R.Sharma, PHQ, N.Delhi to appear in person and to
 explain why FIRs of complainant against dacoity, cheating,
 attempts to murder and tampering of evidences cannot be
 registered. (iii) Order and direction be passed to issuing NBWs to arrest
 O.P.Kejariwal - Govt. Servant, NMML, TMH, New Delhi -
 accused (who vitiates the crl. proceedings by his bribery,
 thuggy and others and put - him in judicial custody for 15 days
 for interrogation. (iv) Any other order which deem fit to be passed in interest of
 justice." (This being a verbatim reproduction and hence the
 grammatical, spelling and syntax errors)

 and we only have to say that the learned Judge ought to have W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 37 of 58 dismissed the same without passing any effective order permitting Sh.Uma
Shankar Pandey to seek adjournments. When the learned Metropolitan
Magistrate noted in the year 2003 that Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey had referred
to the Prevention of Corruption Act , vide order dated February 28, 2003 it
was directed that the matter be placed before the District & Sessions Judge
who passed an order on July 31, 2003 that the complaint be assigned to the
Special Judge dealing with anti-corruption cases and since then the
Additional Sessions Judges have been adjourning the matter on some pretext
or the other. Similar is the position of all other cases. 41. His pleadings before this Court; the learned Metropolitan Magistrates
and his arguments, evidence that he spends hours reading newspapers and
researches on the internet principles of law that might assist his case. He
latches on to phrases such as „sub-silentio‟ etc. With the passage of time we
find that he has moved away from persistence and has entered the zone of
insolence and is bordering on turning aggressive and querulant. He has got
obsessed by the legal process. His behaviour which is now turning
aggressive and querulant is evidenced by the four phrases which such
behaviourly affected persons use frequently. They are: 42. It is apparent that Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey is an obsessively invested
litigant, and given his fixations, increasingly turns to making a grandiose list
of complaints and accompanying insults. His anger and contempt has turned
into paranoia and delusions. With the passage of time he has become rigid
and suspicious. He appears in the Court with many documents and
pleadings demanding that all should be read. Often of no relevance to his
case, he taunts broad principles of human rights. He denies obviously
undisputed facts known to others. What may appear to third parties as
conscious lying is fundamentally in his case a passionate belief in the truth
of his perceptions. The pattern of behaviour: Pursuit of his personal
grievances has seriously damaged him. It has become disruptive to the
functioning of the courts. His grievances have steadily grown from the
mundane to the grandiose. He reveals grand fantasies of his ultimate
vindication, unveiled dramatically before courts. His initial grievance
against Sh.O.P.Kejariwal who was the Director of the Nehru Memorial
Museum and Library from the year 1997 to the year 2001 has turned into a
bizarre, life-engrossing campaign to uncover and bring down „global
conspiracies‟. 43. It is a trait of such litigants that pursuing their quest for justice they
typically send voluminous communications and one finds that their requests
gradually shifts to demands and therefrom to recrimination and finally to
threats. They come to regard public figures as the central impediment to
their quest. Having laid waste their financial and social fabric, they can be
compared to gamblers, with no way out of the devastation they have W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 39 of 58 wrought, hoping for a really big win. 44. His enthusiasm and passionate engagement in the quest for supposed
justice chases an absurd expectation and this is the reason why he creates a
chaos in his pursuit. The misplaced enthusiasm is inflated with hopes. His
level of pre-occupation with his cause, the ruminative quality of his thinking
and the pedantic attention to the minutiae of his case, all suggest obsession. 45. Querulous litigants are of various shades and varieties. They may be
simply vexatious litigants. They may be unusually persistent complainants.
They may be abnormally persistent complainants. Lastly, they may be those
who are in pursuit of idiosyncratic quests amplified by a self-righteous and
self-important narcissistic outlook. 46. The pleadings and arguments of Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey make it
obvious that he is a litigant who falls in the last category. The felt insult
may be a real one but perhaps in his case a perceived grievance has
stimulated in him the underlying hypersensitivity and vulnerability, leading
him to become completely consumed in a self-destructive quest for
vindication. 47. The common trait evidenced by litigants who are in pursuit of
idiosyncratic quests amplified by a self-righteous and self-important
narcissism is the blurring of the distinction between a fantasy and the real
and thus their non-understanding of a difference between an „assertion‟ and
„evidence‟. They deny obvious undisputed facts known to others. Prone to
paranoia or delusions they decompensate and become acutely psychotic.
And as we have observed above they bring disruption to the organization
through which they seek their vision of justice. They target the high and the
mighty. 48. We have already noted the relevant facts with reference to the names W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 40 of 58 of the person who Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey has targets. His tirade
commences in late 1997 when as per him Sh.O.P.Kejariwal the Director of
the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library allowed him to store his
belongings in a room in Teen Murti Complex but threw him out and stole
his research material. At that time the Government in the Centre was
headed by Sh.I.K.Gujral. Sh.Indrajit Gupta was the Union Home Minister
and Sh.S.Jaipal Reddy was the Union Minister for Information and
Broadcasting. Sh.O.P.Kejariwal had joined Nehru Memorial Museum and
Library after having served in the Doordarshan as the CEO of Prasar Bharti
under the administrative control of the Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting. This explains him targeting the two Ministers pertaining to
his personal dispute which he had, if at all, with Sh.O.P.Kejariwal. The
Government led by Sh.Atal Bihari Vajpayee took over on March 19, 1998
and lasted till May 22, 2004. Applications filed by him during this period
target the then Union Minister for Home Sh.L.K.Advani, Ms.Sushma Swaraj
the Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Sh.Arun Jaitley, the
Union Minister for Law and Justice, Ms.Uma Bharti, a Member of
Parliament of the BJP but prominently in the news. Sh.Soli J.Sorabjee, the
Attorney General and Sh.Madan Lal Khurana, the Chief Minister of Delhi.
The applications filed by him post June, 2004 till date consistently target
Ms.Sonia Gandhi, the President of Indian National Congress, Dr.Manmohan
Singh, the Prime Minister of India, Sh.Shivraj Patil and Sh.P.Chitambaram
who were the Union Ministers of Home from May, 2004 to November, 2008
and November, 2008 till July, 2012 respectively. He also targets Sh.Pranab
Mukherjee. His fixation against all those who have held office of the Union
Minister for Home is writ large. During arguments he repeatedly wanted
this Court to allot him a suite in Western Court, Janpath and preferably Suite W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 41 of 58 No.6 or 7. It is not strange that as pleaded by him in the writ petition he has
pleaded that the said suites were unauthorizedly occupied by Sh.Indrajit
Gupta. 49. To put it plainly, Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey admits of having no proof
of what he alleges. But he blames the judiciary and the police for proof
being lost because as per him no cognizance was taken of his complaints
when his research material was stolen and used by Sh.O.P.Kejariwal to
publish a book. We have already analyzed the possible material which he
could have gathered while researching for his topic to opine that there is no
conceivable connection with the same and the subject on which
Sh.O.P.Kejariwal has authored his book. From the fact that
Sh.O.P.Kejariwal‟s book was published in the year 1988 we have
highlighted the conclusive fact that Sh.O.P.Kejariwal could not have used
research material coalesced by him because as per him he came to Delhi in
the year 1988 to research at the National Archives of India and Nehru
Memorial Museum and Library. The first possible instance of any
belonging of his being stolen could not be before the year 1994 or 1995
because he claims that when he came to Delhi in the year 1988, he stayed in
a dormitory on the 4th floor of Bihar Bhawan at Kautaliya Marg and after a
while he shifted to a tenanted room in flat No.204, South Avenue allotted to
one Dr.R.K.Kusumaria, a Member of Parliament from Madhya Pradesh. He
claims that the theft took place when he was residing in said flat. In the
Crl.Writ Petition he makes a reference that for the first time he had
approached the police at PS Chankaya Puri to lodge an FIR on March 18,
1997. Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey‟s journey commenced in this Court with the
writ petition filed in December, 1997 making reference to a grievance that
the police was not registering an FIR on his complaint dated March 18, 1997 W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 42 of 58 and it is only later on that we find he claiming being assaulted and his
intellectual properties stolen even earlier. 50. The fantasies, illusions and delusions of Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey
pertaining to a global conspiracy against him have been noted by us with
reference to what he argued before us and we find its reflection in the
statement made by him on oath before Ms.Navita Kumari, MM, New Delhi
on February 26, 2013. 51. This is the reason why he claims that he need not produce any
evidence because of the fact that he being an expert, his opinion is
evidenced as per Section 45 of the Evidence Act. We need not discuss as to
what kind of expert opinion is evidence under Section 45 of the Evidence
Act. 52. With reference to the conduct of Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey we have
already highlighted that he exhibits a pattern of behaviour involving the
unusual persistent pursuit of an imaginary grievance thereby not only
causing serious self-inflicted damage to him but additionally to the
functioning of the Courts while attempting to resolve his claim. The proof is
the numerous proceedings initiated by him in different Courts which we
have listed in the schedule to this decision and we find that in all of them he
wants FIRs to be registered against all and sundry for imaginary threats and
atrocities committed; and the underlying signature tune which initially was
that everybody was acting to protect Sh.O.P.Kejariwal has now shifted to a
global conspiracy against him. He is obsessed with the fixation that the
Punjabi terrorists who are sponsored by different nations have managed to
install a Sikh as the Prime Minister of India with the object of terrorising
and torturing him. Thus we find the name of Dr.Manmohan Singh all
pervasive in his current pleadings. Observations of Courts pertaining to W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 43 of 58 corruption are being linked to the Prime Minister of India under a grandiose
scheme to destroy the economy of this country. 53. Any attempt by us to directly confront his misconception would be a
mistake. His misconceptions being a product of intense suspicion and
lengthy self-justification would further entrench his position if any attempt
is made to confront his misconceptions. Thus, it would be potentially
more productive for us to clarify the limitations inherent in the courts
and complaints procedures that cannot provide the type of retribution
and vindication sought, however justified the cause may be. After all,
courts are about adjudication, compensation, reparation and in today's
environment even conciliation and not about retribution and personal
vindication. 54. Thus the issues which he raises are beyond the management of this
Court. Since he suffers enormous damage to his personal, social and
psychological functioning in his pursuit, he is and ought to be the subject of
concern of professionals in psychology who can provide insights conducive
to him. He would be better managed by the Social Welfare Department of
the Government of Delhi than by a court. He has already imposed
significant burdens on the courts by wasting judicial time. 55. We have no hesitation to conclude that the proceedings initiated by
Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey in W.P.(Crl.) No.861/1997 have to be immediately
terminated by dismissing the same, for the reliefs he prays for as also the
reliefs he prays for in the various pending miscellaneous applications cannot
be granted; but issuing suitable directions to the State to discharge the
constitutional obligation to render such psychological and material help as
may be required, and for which we shall issue directions at the destination of
our opinion. 56. But what about the various proceedings initiated by him, and most of
which are complaint cases filed by him before different Magistrates. 57. We had summoned the record of all cases pending before different
learned Judges and have perused the same. It is the usual story. For
imaginary and fictitious incidents, complaints are filed seeking directions
against the police to investigate. The targets of the complaints are the
different public figures whose names we have noted while referring to his
tirade. Not knowing how to handle litigants like him, we find that the
learned Magistrates, raw in experience, have passed orders seeking status
report to be filed by the SHO of the concerned police station in area whereof
he claims a wrong was committed against him. Some of them have
followed the letter of the law by recording on oath his statement as a
complaint. One such statement recorded in part by a learned Metropolitan
Magistrate has been noted by us in paragraph 38 above. What we find is the
Magistrates are overlooking the fact that there is no factual basis for the
complaint. Everything is imaginary. 58. We had a first hand experience of Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey as he
addressed arguments spanning nearly seven hours spread over three days.
Before that, one of us; Pradeep Nandrajog, J. had sampled him as a puisne
Judge sitting with the Hon‟ble Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court for
three weeks from September 03, 2013 till September 20, 2013. He would
troop into the room of the Hon‟ble Chief Justice every day at 10:30 AM
sharp and lecture on all and sundry, pestering the Chief Justice to issue
immediate directions to arrest somebody or direct an immediate listing or an
immediate hearing of his case. Between 15 minutes to 45 minutes were
wasted virtually every day. On a few days he would trouble the court even
after lunch hours and his tirade would continue. He would make grievance W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 45 of 58 against the Bench which was seized of his writ petition. 59. Dealing with the constitutionality of the Anti Vexatious Litigation
(Prevention) Act, 1949 by the State of Tamil Nadu, in the decision reported
as AIR 1965 SC 1827 Prabhakar Rao H.Mawle Vs. State of A.P. the
Supreme Court observed that vexatious litigants can be checked from
approaching courts to prevent harassing the opposite party. In the decision
reported as 2010 (3) SCC 402 State of Uttranchal Vs. Balwant Singh
Chaufal & Ors. the Supreme Court stressed the imperative need to weed out
the menace of vexatious public interest litigations filed without the
necessary preliminary study of facts; and we are of the opinion that the same
principle could be applied in an extreme case of the kind we are dealing with
i.e. a litigant who brings imaginaries before the court and wants cases to be
registered; possessed of the only evidence under Section 45 of the Evidence
Act: the argument being that since I am an expert, whatever I say is
evidence. The Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court, in the decision
reported as 2003 ( 2) SCC 45 Ex.Captain Harish Uppal Vs. UOI said: 60. Though in Harish Uppal‟s case (supra) the Supreme Court was
concerned with regulating counsel behaviour in court, but the principle of
law we find would be that it is the duty of a court to take such measures
which are necessary to regulate the court‟s proceedings and to maintain an
orderly functioning of the court. This principle would apply equally
whether the malefactor is a party appearing in person. 61. In the opinion reported as AIR 1955 SC 1033 Hari Vishnu Kamath W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 46 of 58 Vs. Ahmad Ishaque the power under Article 227 of the Constitution of India
was held to be both judicial as also administrative. In the opinion reported
as 2006 ( 12) SCC 148 Anil Kumar Vithal Shete Vs. State of Maharashtra the
Supreme Court held that Articles 227 and 233 to 237 of the Constitution of
India make it explicitly clear that the High Court has to take care of and
exercise control over courts subordinate to it and this power of
superintendence and control includes inter-alia to guide, advice and
encourage Judges of subordinate courts to exercise their powers, discharge
their duties and perform their functions independently, fearlessly and
objectively. In the opinion reported as 1974 (2) SCC 831 Shamsher Singh
Vs. State of Punjab the Supreme Court observed that the members of the
subordinate judiciary were not only under the control, but were also under
the care and custody, of the High Court and that the members of the
subordinate judiciary look up to the High Court not only for discipline but
also for dignity. 62. The Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in the opinion reported
as AIR 1957 All. 414 Aidal Singh Vs. Karam Singh observed that exercising
power under Article 227 of the Constitution of India a High Court
discharges its obligation as the custodian of all justice within the territorial
limits of its jurisdiction. In the opinion reported as 1972 ( 1) SCC 898
Ahmedabad Manufacturing and Calico Printing Co. Ltd. Vs. Ram Tahel
Ramanand the Supreme Court held that power under Article 227 of the
Constitution of India can be exercised by the court suo moto. In the opinion
reported as 2000 ( 2) SCC 636 G.Sagar Suri Vs. State of U.P. the Supreme
Court held that the inherent power of a court of record has to be exercised to
prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of
justice. In the opinion reported as 1998 ( 5) SCC 749 Pepsi Foods Ltd. Vs. W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 47 of 58 Special Judicial Magistrate the Supreme Court observed that where the
criminal law was set in motion by a person without justification by filing
frivolous complaints which are ex-facie without merit, the High Court has
vast power, to prevent the abuse of the process of law, to quash the same. In
the opinion reported as 2005 ( 1) SCC 122 Zandu Pharmaceutical Works Vs.
Mohammad Sharaful Haque , with reference to the inherent power of the
High Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C. the Supreme Court observed that the
inherent power could be exercised in three circumstances; namely: (i) to
give effect to an order under the Criminal Procedure Code ; (ii) to prevent
abuse of the process of court; and (iii) to otherwise secure the ends of
justice. 63. Keeping in view the imaginary facts, full of delusions and illusions;
assertions without any evidence, pleaded by Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey before
the learned Metropolitan Magistrates and other Judges, and additionally the
frivolous and vexatious nature of his complaints, emerging as a result of the
idiosyncratic beliefs harboured by him, to prevent abuse of the process of
court we quash all proceedings which are pending and listed in the Schedule
to this decision. 64. It would be useless to proceed against him for having committed
contempt of this Court and thus we discharge notice framing contempt
proceedings against him dated February 19, 1998 and accordingly we
dismiss Cont.Cas (Crl.) 3/1998 on the Courts own motion against Sh.Uma
Shankar Pandey. All applications pending therein are dismissed. 65. We dismiss Cont.Cas.(Crl.) No.17/2008 which has simply been
adjourned from time to time for the reason the gibberish pleadings therein
are imaginary and the prayer is most unintelligible. 66. But, the State has to discharge its constitutional obligation to care for W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 48 of 58 its citizen who finds himself in distress and stress. In his idiosyncratic quest
for justice Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey has totally destroyed himself and needs
help. The same has to be in the form of counselling by a Psychologist and
even monetary help. Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey needs aid for being
rehabilitated, to whatever extent he can be, in the society. 67. We direct the Director of the Social Welfare Department of the
Government of NCT Delhi to forthwith provide boarding and lodging to
Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey at a suitable Rehabilitation Home. A Psychologist
would be provided to interact with him, with a view to free him from the
escalating psychosomatic maladies inflicting Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey so
that in him is fostered a new humanitarian, habilitative culture, tuned to the
promising values of dignity and decency. Regretfully, though these
objectives tantalize us but they exclude our grasp. 68. All proceedings initiated by Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey, since quashed,
shall be consigned to the record room by the concerned courts. 69. Should we bar the entry of Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey in courts?
Tempted as we would be to do so, we have to keep in mind that access to
justice is a social and a fundamental right and is treated in matured
democracies as a pre-condition for existence and survival of the rule of law.
Inherent in the expression „access to justice‟ is not only the use of the
judicial system but first and foremost the physical entry thereto. 70. We cannot deny Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey physical access to courts by
putting a blanket bar for the reason he is currently litigating with his
landlord on the subject of he being evicted from the tenanted premises. We
find that on September 13, 2013, the ex-parte decree for eviction obtained
by the landlord on January 03, 2013 was executed by breaking the locks and
the goods lying in the house were entrusted on superdari to Ms.Babita, the W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 49 of 58 wife of the landlord. Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey would be entitled to take
possession of the said goods and for which he has to physically access the
court. 71. But, law recognizes that the right to access a Court can be subjected to
limitations as long as they do not impair the very essence of the right to
access to the courts and as long as the restrictions pursue a legitimate and
proportionate aim. Such orders are sustainable so long as there is a
reasonable relationship and proportionality between the means employed
and the aims sought to be achieved as was held in the opinion reported as
(2001) EWCA Civ 340 Ebert Vs. Official Receiver and the opinion reported
as 1999 (3) WLR 670 Ebert Vs. Venvil which used the expression a court
has a right to regulate its processes as it thinks fit since its remedies are
proportionate to the identified abuse. 72. Accordingly, we direct that henceforth, no proceedings initiated by
Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey shall be taken cognizance of by any court
subordinate to this Court except when he obtains leave from the concerned
District & Sessions Judge, and as regards this Court, till he obtains a
permission in writing from the Standing Counsel (Criminal/Civil) appointed
by the State Government to represent the State in the Delhi High Court;
depending upon whether the proceedings intended to be initiated by Sh.Uma
Shankar Pandey are criminal or civil. The concerned District & Sessions
Judge as also the Administrative Civil Judge of the court complex concerned
would be empowered not to permit Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey to enter the
precincts of the court building unless he intends to file an application
seeking permission from the concerned District & Sessions Judge to initiate
a proceeding and if physical access is allowed, the concerned District &
Sessions Judge or the Administrative Civil Judge would be entitled to direct W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 50 of 58 a security personnel to be present with Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey to ensure
that he accesses the court of the concerned District & Sessions Judge and no
other court. If Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey is granted permission to pursue a
proceeding, while permitting him access to the court premises, such
regulatory measures could be imposed which ensure that he goes only to the
court concerned and no other. Similarly would be the position if Sh.Uma
Shankar Pandey obtains permission from the Standing Counsel
(Criminal/Civil) to initiate a proceeding in this Court. As regards the
proceedings pending in which Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey is a party, which
proceedings have not been quashed by us, while permitting access to the
Court the concerned District & Sessions Judge would be empowered to
likewise impose any regulatory measure to ensure that Sh.Uma Shankar
Pandey goes only to the Court where his presence is required and does not
create a nuisance for other learned Judges. 73. We are directing as above in the preceding paragraph since we have
witnessed Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey entering a court irrespective of whether
or not his matter is listed in the court and going on a tirade. 74. We appoint Sh.Vivek Kumar Tandon, Advocate, 404, Lawyers'
Chamber, Delhi High Court, New Delhi-110503 whose consent we have
taken to ensure compliance with the present decision with regard to the
direction issued to the Director of the Social Welfare Department,
Government of NCT Delhi. Since Sh.Vivek Kumar Tandon is a panel
lawyer for the Government of NCT Delhi, we have troubled him to do the
needful. We make it clear that should Sh.Vivek Kumar Tandon be of the
opinion that any further directions are required pertaining to the
rehabilitation of Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey, he would be at liberty to move an
application which shall be taken on record by the Registry without any court W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 51 of 58 fee paid and listed as a miscellaneous application before the Court along
with the copy of the present order; and not the entire voluminous bulky
record of the criminal writ petition. 75. To summarize, W.P.(Crl.) 861/1997 and all pending applications
therein are disposed of in terms of para 55, 63, 67, 68, 72, 73 and 74 above.
Contempt Case (Crl.) 3/1998 is disposed of discharging the notice of
contempt issued to Sh.Uma Shankar Pandey. Contempt Case (Crl.) 17/2008
is dismissed. 76. Two copies of this decision be supplied today itself to Ms.Zubeda
Begum, Standing Counsel Government of NCT of Delhi under the
signatures of Court Master; one for departmental action pertaining to the
directions issued in para 67 above, and the other to be supplied to Sh.Uma
Shankar Pandey under acknowledgment. (PRADEEP NANDRAJOG)
 JUDGE

 (V. KAMESWAR RAO)
 JUDGE
October 08, 2013
Mamta W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 52 of 58 SCHEDULE

Proceedings pending in the Court of Mr.S.K.Sarvaria, District & Sessions
 Judge,(North-West) Rohini 1. Misc. Uma Shankar Pandey (President of
 Crl. Complaint-89/12 W.A.S.) Vs.Union of India etc. 2. Misc. App.-12/12 Uma Shankar Pandey (President of
 W.A.S.) Vs.Union of India etc. 3. M-86/13 Uma Shankar Pandey (President of
 W.A.S.) Vs.Union of India etc. 4. Misc-98/13 Uma Shankar Pandey (President of
 W.A.S.) Vs.Union of India etc.

 Proceedings Pending in the Court of Mr.Chander Shekhar, District &
 Sessions Judge, (North) 1. M/57/13 Uma Shankar Pandey
 Vs. U.O.I.

Proceedings Pending in the Court of Mr.Sanjeev Kumar, Addl. Sessions
 Judge (North) 1. M2/11 Uma Shankar Pandey
 Vs. U.O.I.

 Proceedings Pending in the Court of Mr.Manish Khurana, MM,
 Rohini Court 1. M-01/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 2. M-02/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 3. M-03/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 4. M-04/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 5. M-05/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 6. M-06/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 7. M-07/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 8. M-09/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 9. M-10/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 10. M-11/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 11. M-12/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 12. M-13/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 53 of 58 13. M-15/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 14. M-16/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 15. M-18/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 16. M-19/4/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 17. CC 848/1/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI 18. CC 666/1/13 Uma Shankar Pandey vs. UOI

Proceedings Pending in the Court of Mr.Narender Kumar Sharma, Special
 Judge (CB), Tis Hazari Courts 1. 01/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 2. 02/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 3. 03/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 4. 04/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 5. 05/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 6. 06/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 7. 07/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 8. 08/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 9. 09/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 10. 10/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 11. 11/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 12. 12/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 13. 13/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 14. 14/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 15. 15/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 16. 16/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 17. 17/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 54 of 58 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 18. 18/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 19. 19/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 20. 20/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 21. 21/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 22. 22/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 23. 23/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 24. 24/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 25. 25/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 26. 26/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 27. 27/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 28. 28/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 29. 29/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 30. 30/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 31. 31/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 32. 32/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 33. 33/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 34. 34/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 35. 35/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 36. 36/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 37. 37/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 38. 38/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 39. 39/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 40. 40/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 41. 41/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 42. 42/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 43. 43/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 44. 44/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 45. 45/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 46. 46/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 47. 47/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 48. 48/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 49. 49/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 50. 50/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 51. 51/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 52. 52/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 53. 53/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 54. 54/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 55. 55/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 56. 56/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 57. 57/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 58. 58/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 59. 59/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 60. 60/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 56 of 58 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. 61. 61/2009 Uma Shankar Pandey
 (President of W.A.S.) Vs. U.O.I. & Ors. Proceedings pending in the Court of Ms.Navita Kumari Bagha, M.M.,
 New Delhi

S. No. Case Number Title of the case 1. CC No.9465/1/99 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 2. CC No.9779/1/00 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 3. CC No.9801/1/00 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 4. CC No.9787/1/00 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 5. CC No. 9777/1/00 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 6. CC No. 9502/1/00 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 7. CC No. 9793/1/00 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 8. CC No.9468/1/00 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 9. CC No.9772/1/00 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 10. CC No.9792/1/00 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 11. CC No.9782/1/00 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 12. CC No.9798/1/00 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 13. CC No.9776/1/00 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 14. CC No.9771/1/01 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 15. CC No.9795/1/01 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 16. CC No.9802/1/01 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 17. CC No.9808/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 18. CC No.9462/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 19. CC No.9791/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 20. CC No.9780/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 21. CC No.9806/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 22. CC No.9785/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 23. CC No.9774/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 24. CC No.9797/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 25. CC No.9784/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 26. CC No.9807/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 27. CC No.9781/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 28. CC No.9464/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 29. CC No.9467/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 30. CC No.9470/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 31. CC No.9809/1/02 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 32. CC No.9460/1/03 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 33. CC No.9463/1/03 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 34. CC No.9459/1/03 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 35. CC No.9461/1/03 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 36. CC No.9778/1/03 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 37. CC No.9789/1/03 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 38. CC No.9511/1/03 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 39. CC No. 9775/1/03 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 40. CC No.9773/1/03 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 41. CC No.9803/1/03 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 42. CC No.9799/1/03 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 43. CC No.98/1/04 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 44. CC No.9790/1/04 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 45. CC No.9186/1/04 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 46. CC No.9804/1/04 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 47. CC No.9805/1/04 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 48. CC No.9469/1/04 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 49. CC No.9788/1/04 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 50. CC No.64/2/04 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 51. CC No.9800/1/04 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. O.P. Kejriwal & Ors. 52. CC No.9811/1/05 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 53. CC No.9796/1/05 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 54. CC No.10450/1/06 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 55. CC No.871/2/06 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 56. CC No.1182B/1/06 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors. 57. CC No.10449/1/06 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . 58. CC No.687/1/07 Uma Shankar Pandey Vs. UOI & Ors . (PRADEEP NANDRAJOG)
 JUDGE

 (V. KAMESWAR RAO)
 JUDGE
October 08, 2013
Mamta W.P.(Crl.)861/1997 & conn.matters Page 58 of 58