1. Petitioner, who is an accused in case FIR No.293 dated 11.07.2025
 registered against him, for commission of offences punishable under Sections
 3(5),318(4),336(3),338,340 of BNS at Police Station Civil Lines, Sirsa has filed
 the instant petition, praying for grant of pre-arrest bail. 2. Relevant facts as emerging from the documents on record be noticed
 hereinbelow: On the basis of said complaint and accompanying documents, aforesaid FIR was
 registered. Apprehending his arrest, the petitioner moved an application for grant
 of pre-arrest bail. Same came to be dismissed vide order dated 19.08.2025.
 Aggrieved of which the present petition has been filed. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the petitioner an
 innocent young man has been falsely implicated in the present case. Investigations
 have been conducted in total partisan manner. Learned counsel next contends that
 in fact the petitioner is not the offender but is a victim of the same fraud. In fact,
 one Krishan @ Krishan Kumar representing himself to be well connected with the
 senior officials of Railways and Kaushal Rojgar Recruitment Cell assured him
 (petitioner) that government job would be arranged for him. Acting on his
 assurance, present petitioner along with another victim Sagar paid Rs.7,84,000/- to
 aforesaid Krishan Kumar. All the time, petitioner was under the impression that
 Krishan is a genuine person, who can help him in securing government job. As
 soon as he came to know that joining letter so sent to him by aforesaid Krishan is
 forged, he approached the police Authorities and lodged a written complaint dated
 21.10.2023 against Krishan. The said complaint having been lodged prior to the
 registration of FIR thus demolishes the case of the complainant that the petitioner
 played a fraud on him. Next leg of submission raised by learned counsel for the petitioner is
 that even if the allegations levelled in the FIR are taken to be true at its face value
 (though not admitted), it is apparent that the dispute is prima facie 'civil' in nature
 but has been given a criminal color only with a view to harass the petitioner as
 also to extract illegal monetary benefit from him. Entire investigation being based
 on documentary evidence, for which custodial interrogation of the petitioner is not
 needed but being a law abiding citizen, he is willing to join the investigation as MANOJ KUMAR and when called for. Prayer for allowing the petition has been made. 4. Per contra, while opposing the request for grant of anticipatory bail,
 learned State counsel contends that if the sequence of events had unfolded in the
 manner as portrayed by the petitioner, it remains inexplicable as to why after
 having been allegedly defrauded by aforesaid Krishan Kumar, petitioner accepted
 money from the complainant and assured him (complainant) to get a Government
 job. This plea seems to be a last minute effort on the part of the petitioner to
 wriggle out of the embarrassing situation in which he is presently placed. Further,
 as per learned counsel, in the factual scenario of the case in hand, custodial
 interrogation of the petitioner is needed to recover the money which he had taken
 from complainant, to find out who all are involved in this racket, how many
 innocent persons have been defrauded etc. Petitioner has thus not been able to
 make out a case for grant of extraordinary relief of pre-arrest bail. Dismissal of
 petition has been prayed for. 5. Before expressing any opinion on the merits of the rival contentions
 raised by learned counsel for the petitioner, learned counsel for the complainant
 and learned State counsel, it would be appropriate to refer to certain relevant
 judgments of Hon'ble Supreme Court, wherein the factors to be kept in mind
 while dealing with an application for grant of anticipatory bail, have been
 discussed. Hon'ble the Supreme Court in " P. Chidambaram vs. Directorate of
 Enforcement , ((2020) 13 SCC 791), has observed as under:- Hon'ble the Supreme Court while deciding the case titled as " Ms. X
 Vs. The State of Maharashtra and another ", (2023 SCC Online SC 279) held
 as under:- It is trite that this Court does not, normally, interfere with an order
 passed by the High Court granting or rejecting bail to the accused.
 However, it is equally incumbent upon the High Court to exercise its
 discretion judiciously, cautiously and strictly in compliance with the basic
 principles laid down in a plethora of decisions of this Court on the point.
 It is well settled that, among other circumstances, the factors to be borne
 in mind while considering an application for bail are: In Nikita Jagganath Shetty @ Nikita Vishwajeet Jadhav vs. The MANOJ KUMAR State of Maharashtra and another , 2025 AIR SC 3375, the Hon'ble Supreme 2026.02.16 22:20 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this order CRM-M-8466-2026 5 Court held that "Anticipatory bail is an exceptional remedy and ought not to be
 granted in a routine manner." 6. Facts leading to registration of the case have already been noticed in
 para 2 of the order. Complainant specifically mentioned the name of petitioner
 and elaborated upon the role played by him. According to him (c), it was the
 petitioner who had assured him (complainant) to secure a government job for him.
 Petitioner had sent a joining letter at the 'whatsApp' number and e-mail of
 complainant, which was later found to be fake. Money deposited at the instance
 of the petitioner was transferred through Google Pay App on the Phone number
 disclosed by petitioner. 7. Considering the facts referred above , custodial interrogation of the
 petitioner is required to recover the money which he had taken from complainant,
 to find out who all are involved in this racket, how many innocent unsuspecting
 persons have been defrauded and deprived of their hard earned money on the false
 promise of sending them/their family members abroad. As the investigation is at
 the preliminary stage and same shall be hampered and impeded in case the
 accused is released on anticipatory bail. 8. Agreeing with the submissions made by learned State counsel, this
 Court is of the opinion that the petitioner has failed to make out a case for grant of
 pre-arrest bail. Dismissed.