1. The plaintiffs have filed a suit for permanent injunction
restraining infringement of trademark, copyright, passing off, unfair
competition, dilution, tarnishment etc. against the defendant. 2. By way of this order I propose to decide the application being
I.A. No. 11376/2014 under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 read with Section
151 CPC filed by the plaintiffs seeking interim injunction against the
defendant restraining from using the mark/name UNIVERSAL or any
other mark similar thereto including the domain name or doing
any other act amounting to infringement of plaintiff's registered trade
mark and/or passing off its products and business as that of the
plaintiffs. Case of the plaintiffs 3. Plaintiff No.1 was originally incorporated under the trading style
of Hoechst Fedco Pharma Pvt. Ltd. in May, 1956. Plaintiff No.1's
corporate name was changed to Sanofi India Ltd. with effect from
May 11, 2012 consequent to a change of name of its parent company
from 'Sanofi Aventis' to 'Sanofi' in May, 2011, in an effort to provide a
common identity to the Sanofi Group globally. Plaintiff No.1 is a
strong and cohesive entity in the field of pharmacy and medicine and
is engaged in the research, development, manufacture and marketing
of prescription based pharmaceutical products as well as over-the-
counter (OTC) medication. It is also urged that plaintiff No.1 has a
strong presence in seven major therapeutic areas viz. Diabetes,
Oncology, Cardiovascular diseases, Thrombosis, Central Nervous
System disorders and Internal Medicine. Plaintiff No.2 was incorporated in 1971 and is one of the
leading pharmaceutical companies in India and is engaged in the
manufacture and distribution of pharmaceutical and nutraceutical
products. Plaintiff No.2 is the holder and proprietor of the
trademark/name UNIVERSAL in relation to inter alia pharmaceutical
and nutraceutical products which constitute an integral and dominant
part of plaintiff No.2's corporate name/trading style since 1971. 4. Plaintiff No.2's trademark UNIVERSAL is used in relation to a
wide range of plaintiff No.2's pharmaceutical and nutraceutical
products such as UNIVERSAL PRIMOSA, UNIVERSAL'S ICE GEL
etc. Plaintiff No.2 has secured registration of the UNIVERSAL CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 2 of 45 family/series of marks in India. The details whereof are provided in
Annexure - A to the plaint. 5. Plaintiff No.2 has developed a series of trade dresses for the
packaging/cartons and strips of its pharmaceutical products which
comprise a distinct layout, get up, colour scheme and arrangement of
features closely resembling one another. One of these trade dresses
is used in relation with plaintiff No.2's Soft Gel capsules marketed
under the trademark UNIVERSAL PRIMOSA (hereinafter referred to
as "the PRIMOSA trade dress") the essential elements whereof are
as follows: 6. The PRIMOSA trade dress was created at the instance of the
plaintiff No.2 in exchange for consideration by an independent
agency A.V. Graphics and constitutes an original artistic work within
the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act, 1957. Plaintiff No.2
is therefore the proprietor of the said trade dress and is entitled to the
exclusive reproduction thereof. 7. In November, 2011 plaintiff No.1 entered into an agreement to
acquire plaintiff No.2's business of marketing and distribution of
branded nutraceutical formulations in India. As per the terms of the CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 3 of 45 acquisition, plaintiff No.2 transferred its entire nutraceutical portfolio
comprising over 40 branded formulations representing key categories
within the nutraceutical market such as antioxidants, vitamins and
mineral supplements, anti-arthritics, anti-osteoporotics, liver tonics
and other nutrients to plaintiff No.2. This transfer also entailed an
assignment of some trademarks from plaintiff No.2's UNIVERSAL
series/family of marks, which are specific to nutraceuticals, to plaintiff
No.1. Plaintiff No.1 is therefore the subsequent proprietor of the trade
mark UNIVERSAL and the UNIVERSAL family/series of marks in
relation to nutraceutical products while plaintiff No.2 continues to
retain proprietorship in relation to the trade mark and name
UNIVERSAL and the UNIVERSAL family/series of marks in relation
to its pharmaceutical products other than nutraceutical products. 8. It is the case of the plaintiffs that in or around March, 2014 the
plaintiffs became aware of the existence of the defendant company
through their representatives and were utterly shocked to know that
the defendant, engaged in the manufacture, marketing and
distribution of nutraceutical products, has adopted the corporate
name and trading style Universal Neutraceuticals Pvt. Ltd. It was
incorporated on 3rd May, 2013. 9. It has been stated that the defendant company has been
formed by ex-employees of plaintiff No.2 whose services were taken
over by plaintiff No.1 consequent on the transfer of plaintiff No.2's
nutraceutical business to plaintiff No.1. These employees
subsequently left the services of plaintiff No.1 during the period
between October and December, 2013. The defendant's Board of CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 4 of 45 Directors is constituted entirely by individuals who are spouses of the
ex-employees of the plaintiffs. 10. It is stated that the defendant has filed an application under No.
2589182 seeking registration of the impugned mark UNIVERSAL in
class 5 and the same is pending. 11. The defendant has also created a domain name
<universalneutraceuticals.com> on 19th August, 2013 on the website
which was under construction. The trade mark UNIVERSAL was
prominently displayed on this "under construction" website. The
plaintiffs also allege that the defendant is marketing nutraceutical
products under trademarks like FREEMOVE which are clearly
inspired by some of plaintiff No.2's established trademarks such as
FREEFLEX etc. 12. It is the case of the plaintiffs that the defendant has adopted a
trade dress comprising an identical get up, lay out, colour scheme
and arrangement of features as plaintiff No.2's PRIMOSA trade
dress. The defendant has even adopted a device which is identical to
plaintiff No.2's Curved Rectangular Device which forms the most
distinctive and essential feature of plaintiff No.2's PRIMOSA trade
dress. 13. It is stated by the plaintiffs that the defendant is therefore
clearly trying to deceive the general public by dishonest imitation of
plaintiff No.2's trade dress/packaging in the following manner:- 14. The plaintiffs issued a ceased and desist notice on 10th March,
2014 to the defendant refraining it from using the mark UNIVERSAL
(in isolation or in conjunction with any other mark including
NEUTRACEUTICALS) and any other mark, name, logo, including as
a part of the impugned domain name
www.universalneutraceuticals.com which may be deceptively similar
to the plaintiffs' well known trademark/name UNIVERSAL or dilutes
the distinctiveness thereof in the relevant field and also to withdraw
trademark application No. 2589182 in Class 5 for registration of the
impugned mark UNIVERSAL. The defendant in its reply to the notice
dated 24th March, 2014 refused to comply with the requisitions
contained in the notice. In addition, the defendant's website
www.universalneutraceuticals.com which was under construction
since the domain name was registered on 19th August, 2013 became
operational immediately after the defendant received the plaintiffs'
cease and desist notice. The rejoinder letter was sent to the
defendant by the plaintiffs on 4th April, 2014 granting them one final
opportunity to comply with the requisitions contained in the notice. As
there was no response on behalf of the defendant, the present suit
has been filed by the plaintiffs. 15. It is submitted in the plaint by the plaintiffs that the defendant's
trade name 'Universal Neutraceuticals Pvt. Ltd' incorporates the
plaintiffs trade mark/name UNIVERSAL in entirety and when used in
conjunction with the word 'Nutraceuticals', draws a direct reference
to the plaintiff's products and services and is therefore, designed to
create confusion. The impugned mark/name UNIVERSAL
NEUTRACEUTICALS used by the defendant is deceptively similar to
the trade marks UNIVERSAL SKINCEUTICALS and UNIVERSAL
DERMACEUTICALS which are registered in favour of plaintiff No.2 in
class 5 and were assigned to plaintiff No.1 vide the Deed of
Assignment dated 3rd November, 2011. Thus, the use of the
impugned mark/name UNIVERSAL NEUTRACEUTICALS by the
defendant therefore, amounts to infringement of trademark apart from
passing off their goods and business as those of the plaintiffs. It is also alleged that each and every one of the unique and
artistic features of plaintiff No.2's PRIMOSA packaging has been
substantially reproduced and imitated by the defendants, in terms of
the get up, colour scheme, arrangements of features and lay out.
Therefore, the defendant's act clearly amount to infringement of
plaintiff No.2's copyright in the PRIMOSA packaging. The defendant's adoption of the trade name UNIVERSAL and
the impugned trade dress in respect of the said products and
business is approximately 42 years subsequent to plaintiff No.2's
adoption of the trade mark/name UNIVERSAL and is clearly in bad
faith. The malafide nature of the adoption of the impugned name and CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 7 of 45 trade dress by the defendant is demonstrated by the formation of the
defendant company by ex-employees of the plaintiffs. The defendant's use of the plaintiff's trade mark/name
UNIVERSAL, either in isolation or in conjunction with the word
NEUTRACEUTICALS is bound to cause confusion among the
relevant class of consumers. A prudent and reasonable person is
bound to be misled into believing that the defendant's products
originate from the plaintiffs or that the defendant have an
association/relationship/sponsorship/affiliation/authorization or nexus
with the plaintiff on account of the following factors: 16. It is prayed in the interim application that the plaintiffs have
established a good prima facie case and the balance of convenience
also tilts in their favour. The defendant's use of a trade mark/name
identical to the plaintiffs clearly constitutes infringement and amounts
to passing off the defendant's products and business as that of the
plaintiffs and will inevitably cause confusion amongst the consumers.
Irreparable loss, damage and injury would be caused to the plaintiff's
goodwill, reputation and business if the defendant is not restrained by
an immediate interim injunction. 17. No written-statement is filed on behalf of the defendant. In the
reply to the application filed by the defendant, it was stated that the
plaintiffs do not possess any exclusive rights in the trademark
UNIVERSAL. The plaintiffs have not produced any supporting
documents to show that plaintiffs are registered proprietors of
UNIVERSAL. The plaintiffs have relied upon several registrations for
UNIVERSAL formative marks, however, the said registrations are
only referred to as 'UNIVERSAL family series' marks by the plaintiffs. 18. It is stated that the registration certificates and official extracts
furnished by the plaintiffs in relation to the UNIVERSAL formative
marks evidently establish that the plaintiffs have 'disclaimed' any
exclusive right to the word UNIVERSAL, particularly in reference to
Registration Nos. 879887 [UNIVERSAL DERMACEUTICALS],
879889 [UNIVERSAL SKINCEUTICALS], 1356776 [Universal CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 9 of 45 ECOCAPS], 837377 [UNIVERSAL SEACOD] and 1356167
[Universal CHEWELS], whereby it is stated that the plaintiffs have
'agreed' to the said disclaimer condition. In view of the agreed
disclaimer condition, it is adequately substantiated that the plaintiffs
possess no exclusive rights over the word UNIVERSAL and cannot
therefore, enforce any rights over the same, much-less restrain the
bonafide use of UNIVERSAL logo by the defendant. It is further
stated that the plaintiffs, by suppressing the material fact of
disclaimer, have tried to overreach the due process of this Court in an
attempt to obtain ad-interim injunction against the defendant. 19. It is stated that the plaintiffs have made misleading averments
in the suit regarding long and continuous use of the trade mark
UNIVERSAL and its formative marks since 1971 who have also failed
to prove any subsisting or valid copyright in the PRIMOSA trade
dress as an artistic work, of which they allege to be the rightful
owners. The PRIMOSA trade dress is claimed to have been created
by an independent agency known by the name of A.V.Graphics, at
the instance of the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs have failed to produce the
details of the author unless the same has been created in the course
of employment of the author as a contract of service. The plaintiffs,
on the contrary, refer to A.V.Graphics as an independent contractor,
who would be deemed to be the first owner of the alleged copyright in
the trade dress, if any, unless proved otherwise by way of a written
contract of assignment/transfer. The plaintiffs have not only failed to
provide any document which shows that the alleged trade dress was
created by A.V.Graphics but they have also failed to prove their CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 10 of 45 averments qua ownership of alleged copyright in the said trade dress
in the absence of any valid assignment in favour of the plaintiffs by
A.V.Graphics. 20. It is stated that the plaintiff No.2 has evidently assigned all title,
rights and interests together with goodwill, if any, in the UNIVERSAL
formative marks to plaintiff No.1 and while admitting to this fact, the
plaintiffs have also filed the Deed of Assignment dated 3rd November,
2011 executed between plaintiff Nos.1 and 2. In view thereof, plaintiff
No.2 may be deemed to be the subsequent proprietor of the alleged
UNIVERSAL formative marks, for the purpose of using the same on
the plaintiffs' products, packaging and trade dress from the year
2011. However, a review of the copies of the plaintiff's packaging and
products, as filed herein by the plaintiffs, reveals that the same date
back to the year 2010. It is further stated that the plaintiffs have, with
a malafide to mislead this Court, filed copies of packaging of products
manufactured by plaintiff No.2 prior to the assignment of the alleged
UNIVERSAL formative marks to plaintiff No.1. It is alleged that the defendant has obtained currently available
products of the plaintiffs, as available in the market and a bare review
of the packaging thereof does not reveal any application or depiction
of the alleged UNIVERSAL formative trade marks by the plaintiffs.
The same are being marketed and distributed under the house mark
of plaintiff No.1 i.e. SANOFI. 21. It is stated that the plaintiffs in their legal notice dated 10th
March, 2014 to the defendant have alleged to have become aware of
the defendant's incorporation in May, 2013, whereas, in suit filed in CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 11 of 45 the instant proceedings, the plaintiffs claim that they first became
aware of the defendant's incorporation in March, 2014. The plaintiffs
have been, admittedly aware of the defendant and its incorporation
for more than a year and have chosen to remain silent until now.
During the hearing, learned counsel has indicated that in fact the
plaintiffs have been aware about the defendant's activities from the
month of January, 2014 and had also shown one photocopy of
circular dated 28th January, 2014 in this regard. 22. It is further alleged that the test of deceptive similarity of trade
name cannot be based out of mere reliance on a keyword search
report from an online search engine website. This is essentially owing
to the fact that the keyword search reports issued by the online
search engines, including Google, are essentially based upon the
success of a company's internet marketing strategy and on the basis
of the well-known process called Search Engine Optimisation (SEO).
Therefore, the alleged Google search reports are nothing but a tool
for misleading this Court qua the actual market scenario and the
plaintiffs must not be permitted to derive any benefit from such
flagrant misrepresentation. 23. Although the plaintiffs have relied upon several UNIVERSAL
formative trade marks by producing registration certificates for the
same, none of the alleged registrations certificates bear reference to
the trade mark - UNIVERSAL NEUTRACEUTICALS. Therefore, all
claims and averments of the plaintiffs qua deceptively similarity of the
defendant's trade name to plaintiffs' alleged trademarks/trade name
must fail. In relation to the word 'NEUTRACEUTICALS', it has been
stated that the same is conjunction of 'nutrition' and 'pharmaceuticals'
and was coined in the year 1989 by Dr. Stephen Defelice, who is
world renowned for his innovations in the field of medicine and is the
founder and chairman of the Foundation for Innovation Medicine,
USA. The word 'NEUTRACEUTICAL', which is very often used to
denote nutritional supplements, has also found place in the Oxford
Dictionary. Evidently, the said term is a dictionary term and cannot be
monopolized and hence, the plaintiffs are barred from claiming any
exclusive rights over the word 'NEUTRACEUTICALS' in any form be
it as a trademark or as a trade name. 24. On a perusal of plaintiffs' product packaging for PRIMOSA, a
person of reasonable intelligence can determine the essential
component of the said trade dress to be the trade mark PRIMOSA;
whereas the essential feature of the defendant's trade dress is EPO
FORTE. Additionally, the dissimilarity in the colour scheme, layout
and overall visual appeal further mitigates any scope for public
confusion. Further, the presence of defendant's composite mark
UNIVERSAL on the trade dress and the plaintiff No.1's house mark
SANOFI leaves no scope for likelihood of confusion. 25. It is further stated that the plaintiffs may also be barred from
claiming any exclusive rights over the common dictionary term
UNIVERSAL, which has become common to trade in relation to
medicinal products. From a bare review of the public search report for
the mark UNIVERSAL in Class 5, the official records of the Registry
reveals several UNIVERSAL formative trademarks registered in India. Additionally, a detailed market survey conducted online by the
defendant also reveals several pre existing companies using
UNIVERSAL as a part of their trade name and also most of these
companies are operating in the field of medicine, with extensive use
and reproduction of the trademark/ trade name UNIVERSAL. It is
further stated that where there are numerous trademarks, registered
or unregistered, having a common feature or syllable, i.e.
UNIVERSAL and if the said trademarks are owned by different
individuals and proprietors, then the plaintiffs must not be permitted to
claim exclusive rights over UNIVERSAL, which is common to trade
and industry. Hence, there is no scope of any confusion and injury,
actual or probable, to the goodwill, if any, of the plaintiffs'. 26. It is the admitted position that out of 20 registrations, in 16
registrations there is no disclaimer to the word UNIVERSAL.
Therefore, in 16 registrations granted in favour of the plaintiffs, the
plaintiffs should have got the exclusive and statutory rights under Section 28 of the Trade Marks Act (hereinafter referred to as the
"Act". With regard to the remaining 4 registrations, it is the settled law
that the disclaimed portion does not take away the right of the trade
mark considered as a whole. In case, some of the registrations
referred by the learned counsel for the defendant to the effect that the
mark UNIVERSAL cannot be examined in isolation to the remaining
portion, the said registrations are within UNIVERSAL A-25. The
essential feature of the said trade mark and trading style is
UNIVERSAL which is being used by the plaintiffs since 1971.
Therefore, the defendant in view of the above referred settled law CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 14 of 45 cannot absolve itself from infringing the trademark of the plaintiffs and
passing off its business as that of the plaintiffs. 27. In order to understand the arguments of the parties, one has to
read together the definitions of "mark" and "trademark" under Sections 2(1)(m) and 2(zb) of the Act. In Section 2(1)(m) , the
meaning of the "mark" includes the name and word and/or any
combination thereof. Similarly, as per Section 2(z) , the "trademark"
means, if the same is used in relation to goods or services for the
purposes of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course
of trade between the goods or services, as the case may be, and
some person having the right as proprietor to use the mark.
Infringement of trademarks and passing off 28. Before I proceed to decide this issue, it is imperative to discuss Section 29 of the Act that envisages the law relating to infringement
of a registered trademark and Section 28 of the Act that provides for
exclusive rights granted by virtue of registration. The said provisions
read as under:- "29. Infringement of Registered Trademark

 (1) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person
 who, not being a registered proprietor or a person
 using by way of permitted use, uses in the course
 of trade, a mark which is identical with, or
 deceptively similar to, the trade mark in relation to
 goods or services respect of which the trade mark
 is registered and in such manner as to render the
 use of the mark likely to be taken as being used
 as a trade mark. (2) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person
 who, not being a registered proprietor or a person
 using by way of permitted use, uses in the course
 of trade, a mark which because of- (a) its identity with the registered trade mark
 and the similarity of the goods or services
 covered by such registered trade mark; or (b) its similarity to the registered trade mark
 and the identity or similarity of the goods or
 services covered by such registered trade
 mark; or (c) its identity with the registered trade mark
 and the identity of the goods or services
 covered by such registered trade mark, is
 likely to cause confusion on the part of the
 public, or which is likely to have an
 association with the registered trade mark. (3) In any case falling under clause (c) of sub-section
 (2), the court shall presume that it is likely to
 cause confusion on the part of the public. (4) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person
 who, not being a registered proprietor or a person
 using by way of permitted use, uses in the course
 of trade, a mark which- (a) is identical with or similar to the
 registered trade mark; and (b) is used in relation to goods or services
 which are not similar to those for which
 the trade mark is registered; and (c) the registered trade mark has a
 reputation in India and the use of the
 mark without due cause takes unfair
 advantage of or is detrimental to, the
 distinctive character or repute of the
 registered trade mark. (5) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person if
 he uses such registered trade mark, as his trade
 name or part of his trade name, or name of his
 business concern or part of the name, of his
 business concern dealing in goods or services in
 respect of which the trade mark is registered. (6) For the purposes of this section, a person uses a
 registered mark, if, in particular, he- (a) affixes it to goods or the packaging thereof; (b) offers or exposes goods for sale, puts them
 on the market, or stocks them for those
 purposes under the registered trade mark,
 or offers or supplies services under the
 registered trade mark; (c) imports or exports goods under the mark; or (d) uses the registered trademark on business
 papers or in advertising. (7) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person
 who applies such registered trade mark to a
 material intended to be used for labelling or
 packaging goods, as a business paper, or for
 advertising goods or services, provided such
 person, when he applied the mark, knew or had
 reason to believe that the application of the mark
 was not duly authorised by the proprietor or a
 licensee. (8) A registered trade mark is infringed by any
 advertising of that trade mark if such advertising- (a) takes unfair advantage of and is contrary to
 honest practices in industrial or commercial
 matters; or (b) is detrimental to its distinctive character; or CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 17 of 45 (c) is against the reputation of the trade mark.
 (9) Where the distinctive elements of a registered
 trade mark consist of or include words, the trade
 mark may be infringed by the spoken use of those
 words as well as by their visual representation
 and reference in this section to the use of a mark
 shall be construed accordingly." 29. By mere reading of these provisions, it is clear that a CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 18 of 45 registered trademark is infringed by a person who not being a
registered proprietor, uses in the course of trade a mark which is
identical or deceptively similar in relation to the goods or services
which are identical or similar to that in respect of which the
trademark is registered without the permission of the trademark
owner. 30. In order to establish infringement, the main ingredients of Section 29 of the Act are that the plaintiff's mark must be registered
under the Act; the defendant's mark is identical with or deceptively
similar to the registered trade mark; and the defendant's use of the
mark is in the course of trade in respect of the goods covered by the
registered trade mark. The rival marks are to be compared as a
whole. Where two rival marks are identical, it is not necessary for the
plaintiff to prove further that the use of defendant's trademark is
likely to deceive and cause confusion as the registration shows the
title of the registered proprietor and the things speak for themselves.
In an infringement action, once a mark is used as indicating
commercial origin by the defendant, no amount of added matter
intended to show the true origin of the goods can effect the question.
If Court finds that the defendant's mark is closely, visually and
phonetically similar, even then no further proof is necessary. 31. The Division Bench of this Court in the case of Jagan Nath
Prem Nath vs. Bhartiya Dhoop Karyalaya , AIR 1975 Delhi 149
held as follows: 32. Thus, it is apparent that registrations obtained by the plaintiffs
do not show the disclaimer of trade mark UNIVERSAL. This fact is
not denied by the defendant's counsel. As regard the arrangement
of the defendant with regard to Section 17 of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act is concerned, the same has no force in view
of the reason that in all work of registering additional mark suffix with
the mark is insignificant and thus ignorable at the time of comparing
the mark. The same is not essential and dominant part. 33. Thus, it is classic case of infringement as the defendant has
used the registered trade mark UNIVERSAL in its corporate name, it
amounts to infringement under Section 29 (5) of the Act. The main
principle in an action for infringement have been discussed and CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 20 of 45 requirement in law, the following few judgments are relevant to be
referred to for the purpose of deciding the issue relating to
infringement of trademark : ii. In the case of American Home Products Corporation v. Mac
Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. , AIR 1986 SC 137 in Para 36 it was held as
under: iii. In the case of National Bell Co. v. Metal Goods Mfg. Co. (P)
Ltd. AIR 1971 SC 898 at page 903 it was held as under: iv. In the case of M/s Avis International Ltd. vs. M/s Avi
Footwear Industries and another, AIR 1991 Delhi 22, it was
observed as under: 34. With regard to disclaimer imposed in few registrations are
concerned, an action for passing off is maintainable in case, it is
established that the defendant is infringing the common law rights of
the plaintiff. In Duke Fashions (India) Pvt. Ltd. V. Girish Hosiery & Ors.
MIPR 2010 (2) 422 it was observed that: The scope and effect of disclaimer has been explained by the
Supreme Court in the case of Registrar of Trade Marks v. Ashok
Chandra Rakhit Ltd , AIR 1955 SC 558 wherein it was held that as
under: 35. In view of the above and as per the settled law, as the two
trademarks of parties have to be compared as whole, the argument of
the defendant has no force. Even otherwise, the disclaimer part is
protectable under the law of passing off by virtue of the proviso to Section 17 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. Thus,
arguments of the learned counsel for the defendants in this regard
are rejected. EX-EMPLOYEE 36. It is the admitted position that the defendant company has been
formed by ex-employees of the plaintiffs. The defendant's Board of
Directors is constituted entirely by the spouses of the ex-employees
of the plaintiffs. The position of law regarding ex-employees has been
discussed in the following cases: for several years" on the goods and advertisements, it was held
 that this did not amount to an assertion that the defendants'
 goods were the goods of the plaintiffs. (vi) In Scott v. Stanley Frazer (1866) 16 LTNS 143, the words
 "Scott and Nixon, Late Robert and Walter Scott" were held to be
 a representation that Walter Scott had retired and Scott and
 Nixon were carrying on the business of the old firm. (vii) In Arthur Fairest v. Fairest (1949) 66 RPC 275 defendant, a
 former managing director of the plaintiff company set up a similar
 business and used one of the vouchers issued by the plaintiff
 company in which his name was printed as managing director.
 Injunction was granted restraining the defendant from using the
 vouchers as it amounted to a representation that the business
 carried on by the defendant was connected with the plaintiff
 company. (viii) In Glenny v. Smith (1865)2 Drew & Sm 476, defendant was an
 employee of the plaintiffs, Thresher, Glenny & Co. of 152,
 Strand. After leaving their service he opened a shop in Oxford
 Street and placed on the shop windows the words "from
 Thresher & Glenny", the word 'from' being in very small letters.
 Injunction was granted to restrain the defendant from using the
 name of the plaintiffs. (ix) In Harrods v. Schwartz-Sackin (1986) FSR 490, the
 defendants who had operated the fine art department of Harrods'
 Store for 15 years under concession agreement, after the
 termination of the agreement started its own art department and
 advertised that it had operated the fine art department of Harrods
 for 15 years. Held that they were entitled to do so, but injunction
 was granted on the basis of a clause in their contract with the
 plaintiffs. (x) In the case of J.K. Jain and Ors. Vs. Ziff-Davies Inc. 2000 (56)
 DRJ 806, where the subject matter of the suit were four titles
 used with respect to magazines, the basis of the plaintiff's suit is
 that the defendants/appellants were its licensee for publishing
 computer magazine under the trade mark "PC MAGAZINE
 INDIA" under a license agreement. As per the license
 agreement the appellants specifically agreed and acknowledged
 the copyright and trade marks of the plaintiff, not to exercise its
 rights under the agreement or otherwise claim any right or
 interest in trade marks beyond the rights given in the
 agreement. After the license stood terminated, the CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 27 of 45 defendants/appellants started publishing four magazines,
 contrary to the terms of license. The Court on the issue of
 whether the words "PC", "WEEK", "MAGAZINE", "COMPUTER",
 "SHOPPER", "USER", "INTERNET", are descriptive or general
 words, observed that as an ex-licensee, appellants were
 estopped from claiming that the mark was descriptive since the
 appellants under the terms of the agreement were unable to
 challenge the proprietary rights of the respondents trade mark or
 trade name on any ground. It was held that after termination of
 the license the very act of the Defendant/Appellant in publishing
 the four titles is contrary to the terms of the licence. 37. In the case of Automatic Electric Ltd. Vs. R.K. Dhawan ,
(1999) (19) PTC 81 it was held that the defendant therein having got
the trademark "DIMMER DOT" registered in Australia, could not
contend that the word "DIMMER" is a generic expression. Automatic
Electric Ltd. (supra), was approved by the Division Bench of this
Court in The Indian Hotels Company Ltd. Vs. Jiva Institute of
Vedic Science & Culture, 2008 (37) PTC 468, wherein it was held
that: 38. In Novartis AG v. Crest Pharma Pvt Ltd. , 2009 (41) PTC 57
(Del), it was held : Passing Off 39. The words which are of common use in a language can be
adopted by a trader or manufacturers as is evident from the definition
of "mark" under Section 2(m) of the Act. 40. In the case of B.K. Engineering v. Ubhi Enterprises , AIR
1985 Delhi 210, it was observed as under: 41. The test of confusion and deception in order to prove the case
of passing off has been very well discussed in the case of Laxmikant
V. Patel vs. Chetanbhat Shah and Another, reported in (2002) 3
SCC 65, wherein the Supreme Court while considering a plea of
passing off and grant of ad interim injunction held in no uncertain
terms that a person may sell his goods or deliver his services under a
trading name or style which, with the passage of time, may acquire a
reputation or goodwill and may become a property to be protected by
the Courts. It was held that a competitor initiating sale of goods or
services in the same name or by imitating that name causes injury to
the business of one who has the property in that name. It was held
that honesty and fair play are and ought to be the basic policy in the
world of business and when a person adopts or intends to adopt a
name which already belongs to someone else, it results in confusion,
has the propensity of diverting the customers and clients of someone
else to himself and thereby resulting in injury. It was held that the
principles which apply to trade mark are applicable to trade name
also. The relevant Paras 8 and 10 of the aforesaid judgment read as
under:- In this case, the Supreme Court further observed that: 42. In the case of Reddaway v. Banham (1896) 13 RPC 218
which was referred in the case of Globe Super Parts vs. Blue Super
Flame Industries AIR 1986 Delhi 245, the judgment given by the
Single Judge of this Court speaking through Shri Mahinder Narain, J
who discussed the case of Reddaway (Supra) at great length by
referring the facts of the matter. The said narration of facts are as
under: 43. The marks which are of common terms, the claim for
distinctiveness or secondary meaning is weak. Manish Vij v. Indra
Chugh 2002 (24) PTC 561 (Del) was a case where "kabadibazaar"
was held not to be a newly coined but a descriptive word as since it
required no imagination to connect it with second hand goods. 44. In the case of Munday v. Carey (1905) 22 RPC 273 the Court
held that it is a rank case of dishonesty, and where you see
dishonesty, then even though the similarity were less than it is here,
you ought, I think, to pay great attention to the items of similarity, and
less to the items of dissimilarity. Similarly in the case of Midland CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 34 of 45 Counties Dairy Ltd. v. Midland Dairies Ltd. (1948) 65 RPC429 it
was held that: Common to the Trade 45. Law of publici juris has been discussed in various cases and
the Courts have given their respective findings to the effect that a
party who has taken the defence of publici juris has to prove his case.
The same has been dealt with by the Courts in the following cases: (ii) In the case of Century Traders vs. Roshan Lal Duggar & Co. ,
 AIR 1978 Delhi 250 it was observed as under: (iii) Reference may also be made to the judgment of this Court in the
 case of P.M. Diesels v. S.M. Diesels , AIR 1994 Del 264, where
 in para 8, this Court held as follows: Thus, the plaintiffs at this stage prima facie able to establish the
case of passing off. Similarity in Trade Name/Corporate Name 46. In Bhandari Homoeopathic Laboratories Vs. L.R. Bhandari
(Homoeopaths) Pvt. Ltd. 1976 Tax LR, 1382 (Del) one R.K.
Bhandari retired from the partnership business of L.R. Bhandari and
Sons and there was a clear condition that the retiring partner would
not be entitled to carry on business in the firm's name. The cause of
action for filing the suit arid application for injunction arose because a
private limited company under the name of the defendant had been
set up by R.K. Bhandari, the retiring partner. It was stated that this
was done with a view to nullify the affect of the dissolution deed.
Kapur, J. held as under: 47. The Division Bench of this Court in the case of Montari
Overseas Ltd. vs. Montari Industries Ltd. , reported in 1996 PTC
(16) 142, in relevant paras observed as under:- Section 20 of the Companies Act, 1956 provides that no
 company will be registered by a name which is similar or
 identical or too nearly resembles the name by which a
 company in existence has been previously registered. In case
 where a company has been incorporated with a name which
 is identical or too nearly resembles the name of a company
 which has been previously incorporated, Section 22 makes a
 provision for getting the names of the former altered. No
 doubt, Section 22 makes provision for rectification of the
 name of a company which has been registered with
 undesirable name but that does not mean that the common
 law remedy available to and aggrieved party stands
 superseded. The plaintiff will have two independent rights of
 action against the defendant who may be using the corporate
 name of a previously incorporated company, one under Section 22 of the Companies Act and the other for injunction
 restraining the defendant from using the corporate name of
 the plaintiff or from using a name bearing close resemblance
 which may cause or which is likely to cause confusion in the
 minds of the customers or general public in view of the
 similarity of names. Both the remedies, one under Section 22 and the other under the common law operate in
 different fields. Under section 22 of the companies Act, the
 Central Government has no jurisdiction to grant any injunction
 against the use of an undesirable name by a company
 whereas in a suit for permanent injunction the court can pass
 an order injucting the defendant from using the name which is
 being passed off by the defendant as that of the plaintiff. In
 M/s. K.G. Khosla Compressors Ltd. vs. Khosla Extraktions
 Ltd. and others , AIR 1986 Delhi 184(2), the plaintiff filed a
 suit against the defendant or permanent injunction restraining
 the latter from using, trading or carrying on business under CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 38 of 45 the name and style of Khosla Extraktions Ltd. on the ground
 that the plaintiff was incorporated as K.G. Khosla
 Compressors Ltd. prior to the incorporation of the defendant
 and it cannot be allowed to imitate or copy the trade name of
 the appellant. Along with the suit, the plaintiff had filed an
 application under Order 39, Rules 1 and 2 for temporary
 injunction restraining the defendant from using trading and
 carrying on business and from entering capital market and
 making public issue under the name M/s. Khosla Extraktion
 Ltd. In that application, the defendant had taken the same
 plea which has been taken in the present case about the
 competence of the court to grant relief in view of Sections 20 and 22 of the Companies Act, 1956. The learned
 single Judge after review of the case law held that the Court
 would, have jurisdiction to grant injunction and Sections 20 and 22 of the Companies Act, 1956 in no way
 limit the jurisdiction of the Civil Court. In this regard the Court
 observed as follows:- 48. As far as the trade dress is concerned, the learned counsel for
the defendant says that there is no similarity but still the statement is
made by him that in future, the defendant has no intention to use the
same in its product. 49. As far as infringement of copyright in LOGO and script is
concerned, (i) in the case of Sodastream Ltd. v. Thorn Cascade Co
Ltd. reported at 1982 RPC 459, the plaintiffs were marketing the gas CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 39 of 45 cylinders of grey colour under their trade mark 'Sodastream' and the
defendants having also been marketing their black colour cylinders
under their own trade mark 'Thorn Cascade', the proposals of the
defendants to refill the grey colour gas cylinders of the plaintiff, even
with their own trade mark amounts to passing off as the grey colour
cylinder is distinctive of the plaintiffs in respect of which the reputation
accrued in favour of the plaintiffs. Interlocutory injunction granted. (ii) In another case Hoffmann-La Roche and Co. A.G. v. D.D.S.A.
Pharmaceuticals Limited, reported in 1972 RPC 1, the plaintiffs
manufactured and marketed chlordiazepoxide in distinctive black and
green capsules bearing the word "Roche" on each capsule, the
defendants also marked and advertised the drug chlordiazepoxide in
black and green 10mg capsules which were identical to those of the
plaintiffs except that they bore the letters "DDSA" instead of the
plaintiffs' name. The plaintiffs were granted interlocutory injunction to
restrain the defendants from passing off capsules of the patented
drug as the goods of the plaintiffs. It was held that marketing of the
capsules by the defendants in almost identical form to those of the
plaintiffs was calculated to cause damage to the plaintiffs. It was
further held that there was a likelihood of confusion as both the
capsules contained the same drug. The public were not concerned
with the identity of the manufacturing of the capsules as long as the
capsules contained the same substance and had the same effect. (iii) In case of Smith Kline and French Laboratories Limited. vs
Trade Mark Applications, reported at 1974 RPC 91 , it was
observed as under: It was further observed: DELAY 50. Lastly with regard to small delay in filing the present suit against
the defendants is concerned, the same is not fatal in an action for
infringement in view of the settled law laid down by Courts in various
matters. I do not agree with the argument of the defendant's counsel
that the plaintiffs have concealed the material facts from the Court. In
case the whole plaint is read in meaningful manner, it appears that
the plaintiffs have even informed the date and month of incorporation
of defendant's company. The question of concealment does not
arise. Further no ex-parte interim orders are passed. In case there is
any discrepancy about the month of information to their dealer, the
plaintiffs due to oversight wrongly mentioned the month. The said act
is condonable as no benefit is derived by the plaintiffs. Some of the
relevant judgments in this regard are as under: (ii) In the case of Swaran Singh vs. Usha Industries (India) and
 Anr. AIR 1986 Delhi 343 (DB), it was observed as under: (iii) In the case of Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s. India
 Stationery Products Co. AIR 1990 Delhi 19, it was observed
 as under: 51. Considering the above-mentioned, overall facts of the present
case as well as settled law applicable to the present case, this Court
is of the opinion that the plaintiffs have been able to make out a
strong prima facie case in its favour who are the proprietors of the
trademark UNIVERSAL registered in their favour. The balance of CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 43 of 45 convenience also lies in favour of the plaintiffs. The use of the mark
UNIVERSAL by the defendant company, that has been formed by ex-
employees of plaintiff No.2, would cause irreparable loss and injury to
the plaintiffs, in case the interim order is not passed. 52. Accordingly, till further orders, the defendant, its partners,
franchises, officers, servants, agents, distributors, stockists,
representatives and all others acting for and on its behalf, are
restrained from using the trade mark/name UNIVERSAL or any other
mark/name that is deceptively similar thereto in any manner including
as a part of its corporate name/trading style and/or domain name or
doing any other act amounting to infringement of the plaintiffs'
registered trademark and/or passing off its products and/or business
as that of the plaintiffs'. 53. Since the plaintiffs have been able to make out a prima facie
case of infringement against the defendant, that admittedly comprises
of the ex-employees of the plaintiff, under Section 29 (5) of the Act,
injunction as prayed for is granted in favour of the plaintiffs, the
defendant is given one month's time to change its corporate/ trade
name from Universal Neutraceuticals Pvt. Ltd. 54. Compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 CPC be made within three
days from the date of receipt of the order. Dasti. 55. Let the written statement be filed within four weeks.
Replication, if any, be filed within four weeks thereafter. 56. The parties to appear before the Joint Registrar for
admission/denial of documents on 18th December, 2014. Thereafter,
the matter be listed before Court on 19th January, 2015 for framing of
issues and directions for trial. (MANMOHAN SINGH)
 JUDGE
OCTOBER 15, 2014 CS(OS) No.1808/2014 Page 45 of 45