1. The dispute in this batch of writ petitions relates to the Combined Services (Preliminary) Examination, 2005, conducted by the Jammu and Kashmir Public Service Commission for short listing of candidates for the Main Examination for making selection in respect of the posts in combined services of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 2. The State Government referred 132 posts for the combined services to the Jammu & Kashmir Public Service Commission (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) for making selection of candidates for direct recruitment on the basis of Combined Competitive Examination. Procedure for conducting the Combined Competitive Examination is governed by the rules framed under SRQ 161 dated 17 July 1995. The rules envisage Combined Competitive Examination consist of two successive stages. 1. Combined Services (Preliminary) Examination (objective type) for the selection of candidates for the main examination; and 2. Combined services (Main) Examination (Written and interview) for the selection of candidates for the various services and posts. 3. The Preliminary Examination consists of two papers - (i) compulsory paper of General Studies and (ii) optional subject to be opted by the candidates out of 22 specified subjects set out in Appendix-IX of the rules. This examination is meant to serve only as a screening test and the marks obtained by the candidates in the Preliminary Examination, who are declared qualified for the Main Examination, are not to be counted for determining their final order of merit. The number of candidates to be admitted to the Main Examination is not to be more than 1:13 times the total approximate number of vacancies to be filled in various services and posts. It is also provided in the rules that only those candidates who obtain such maximum marks in the Preliminary Examination, as may be fixed by the Commission at its discretion, are to be declared by the Commission to have qualified in the Preliminary Examination in a year, provided they are otherwise eligible for admission to the Main Examination. 4. The Main Examination consists of written examination and an interview test. The written examination consists of papers of conventional essay type, out of which one paper is to be of qualifying nature only, in the subjects set out in Appendix-IX and as per the detailed syllabus in Appendix-IB. The candidates who obtain such minimum qualifying marks in written part of the Main Examination, as may be fixed by the Commission in any or all the papers at their discretion, would be entitled to be summoned for an interview. 5. The Commission vide its notification No. PSC/EXM-05/27 dated 1.4.2005 invited applications from the candidates for the Preliminary Examination of J&K Combined Competitive Examination. 2005. In response, 17116 candidates applied. The Preliminary Examination was conducted by the Commission simultaneously at Jammu and Srinagar on 3.7.2005 at 24 centers/sub-centers, in which 15293 candidates appeared. The compulsory paper in the General Studies subject carried 150 marks for 120 questions, each question containing 1.25 marks, whereas the optional paper out of 22 subjects was carrying 300 marks for 120 questions, each question having 2.5 marks. After the Preliminary Examination, a large number of complaints came to be made by the candidates in the media pointing out mistakes/errors in the question papers. 6. In the face of complaints, the Commission on 6 July 2005 made a public announcement that the general grievance of the candidates would be given due consideration by it while evaluating the answer scripts. The Commission considered the issue in its meetings held on 7 July 2005, which was attended by its Chairman, Mr. M. S. Pandit and four members, namely, M/S M. S. Khan, C. L. Banal, Ch. Bashir Ahmed and Dr. N. A. Jan; the 5th member Prof. B. K. Tiku was not available on the said date. The Commission received the representations of aggrieved candidates up to 10.7.2005. For Combined Services (Main) Examination, the Commission based on the result of Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination fixed 50% and 40% of aggregate marks for the general category and reserved category candidates respectively as the minimum qualifying marks for short-listing in the ratio of 1:13. 7. The Commission unanimously decided that such of the reported questions, as were admittedly wrong, would be deleted and the marks of such deleted questions would be added pro-rata to rest of the questions. While deciding about the modus operandi to deal with the wrong questions, the Commission kept in view the manner in which such like situation was being dealt with by other examination conducting bodies like Union Public Service Commission. 8. The Commission deleted such questions from the question papers, which according to it were admittedly wrong or had major printing errors. The marks of excluded questions were added to the remaining questions. On 11 July 2005, an extra-ordinary meeting was called by the Commission, in which it was decided to prepare the result of candidates who appeared in the examination, indicating the marks separately obtained in General Studies and Optional paper. It was also decided that thereafter the result would be formally brought before the Commission for its approval, before the same is notified for general public. This meeting was attended by Mr. M. S. Pandit, Chairman and the Members, namely, Mr. C. L. Banal, Mr. B. K. Tiku, Ch. Bashir Ahmed and Dr. N. A. Jan. On 12 July 2005, the Full Commission in an extra-ordinary meeting approved the result of J&K Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination, 2005. Pursuant to such approval, the result was declared and notified on the same date. 9. Consequent upon the declaration of result, the private respondents have been declared qualified for the Main Examination, whereas, the writ petitioners being unsuccessful could not find berth in the select list. Being aggrieved of their exclusion from the competition, they have filed the present writ petitions. 10. The case of petitioners put broadly is that the two papers, i.e., General Studies and the other relating to optional subjects were containing incorrect questions, which besides wasting the time of candidates in understanding the same, put them in a disadvantageous position and they have been made to suffer without any fault attributable to them. It is also the case of petitioners that while conducting the Preliminary Examination, the Commission violated the examination rules and, therefore, whole of the examination process is bad in law. 11. The stand of Commission in short is that the rules for conducting the examination were strictly followed and the wrong questions have been deleted while evaluating the answer sheets of the candidates. Further, the marks of deleted questions have been distributed to the correct questions of each concerned paper on pro-rata basis, therefore, no prejudice whatsoever has been caused to the candidates, especially the petitioners herein. 12. I have heard learned Counsel for the parties and perused the record of Commission as well. 13. The first question arising for consideration is as to whether there was any violation of examination rules for conducting the Preliminary Examination. The ground of violation of examination rules has specifically been raised in OWP No. 150/2006. In the said petition two Members of the Commission, namely, Prof. B. K. Tiku and Dr. N. A. Jan have been impleaded as respondents and they have also filed their personal affidavits. 14. For determination of the controversy, it would be beneficial to note the following few averments made in the writ petition: The Commission consists of three members namely, 1. Professor B.K. Tiku 2. Dr. N.A. Jan and 3. Shri Bashir Ahmad Choudhry
 

Besides the aforesaid three members, the Chairman, namely, Mohd. Shafi Pandit has to act as per the consent of said three members. As per Rule 5 of JKPSC (Business & Procedure) Rules, 1980, the Chairman or a member of Commission is not supposed to participate in selection for reasons of his close kinship with candidate. Shri Bashir Ahmed Chaudhary, one of the Members of Commission was not entitled to participate in the selection process. As per Rule 9 of said Rules, the decision at the meeting of Commission could be taken in keeping with view of majority of members thereof. The Chairman can cast vote in the case of tie only. "4. It is submitted that here that out of 3 members of Commission, as mentioned above, two Members namely, Prof. B.K. Tiku and Dr. N.A. Jan refused to sign the proceedings and result. The third member namely Shri Bashir Ahmed Choudhrty, who was incompetent to participate in the selection process, as his son Sh. Suleman Chauhary was one of the aspirants. Shri Bashir Ahmed Chaudhary, one of the Members of Commission at the insistence of Chairman of Commission, Shri Mohd. Shafi Pandit signed all the proceedings of selection and the result, and the result of preliminary examination was approved and declared by the signature of Shri Bashir Ahmed Choudhary alone, who was incompetent to participate in the selection process. Thus out of three members of Commission, two refused to approve and sign the proceedings and the result of preliminary examination, and third member was incompetent for participating in the selection process on account of his son, who was also an aspirant in the said selection. Thus the Commission declared the result of preliminary examination on the direction of Chairman only. 15. From the above averments of the petition, the ground for challenging the examination process has been built upon the edifice that the Commission consisted of Chairman and three Members, namely, Dr. N. A. Jan, Choudhary Bashir Ahmed and Professor B. K. Tiku. The two Members, namely, Dr. N. A. Jan and Shri B. K. Tiku dissented, whereas the third Member, Ch. Bashir Ahmed was incompetent to sign the proceedings and the result of Preliminary Examination. The decisions taken by the Commission, therefore, can only be deemed to be the decisions of Chairman and not of the Commission. 16. It may be curious to note that the two Members, namely, Shri B. K. Tiku and Dr. N. A. Jan. who have been arrayed as respondents, instead of supporting the decisions of Commission, of which they were the Members, have filed their personal affidavits supporting the case of petitioners. At this stage, it would be apt to refer to the relevant portions of their reply affidavits. The relevant averments made by Prof. B. K. Tiku are as follows. 2. That it is unfortunate that immediately after the conduct of the above preliminary examinations, the procedure and process undertaken by the Commission was griped in a serious controversy in that series of complaints were raised, regarding wrong questions, wrong answers, doubtful keys vis-a-vis the questions, printing errors etc. etc by the candidates both in the press as also the electronic media." 3. That it is submitted that the Commission besides the answering respondent is comprised of three members, which also include the Chairman, with other members being Dr. N. A. Jan and Sh. Chowdhary Bashir Ahmed. The said member, Chowdhary Bashir Ahmed though disabled to participate for the reason of one of his close relations being a candidate, however, also associated in the meetings aforementioned. It is submitted that the above suggestions made by the answering respondent though supported by the other member, Dr. N.A. Jan, have failed to earn the agreement of the Hon'ble Chairman. It was in this process that the complaints received by the Commission pursuant to the public notice dated 6.7.2005 were examined by the Commission without associating the answering respondent and other Hon'ble Member Dr. N.A. Jan, leading both, the answering respondent and the said member to record their dissent in approving the results of the preliminary examination, which however, was declared by the Commission in-spite of the disagreement. It is significant to mention that besides recording his dissent, the answering respondent as well has not signed the results drawn for the said preliminary examinations." Respondent No. 5, Dr. N. A. Jan, taking the identical stand as taken by Prof. B. K. Tiku, respondent No. 4, in his reply/affidavit, further stated: COMPULSORY PAPER OF GENERAL STUDIES 34. The paper was having 120 questions carrying 150 marks, with each question having 1.25 marks. The question papers in every subject were set in four series, i.e., A, B, C & D; meaning thereby that the same questions appeared at different serial numbers in each of the series. I would be dealing with 'A' series of the paper. It is the admitted stand of Commission that out of 120 questions of General Studies paper, only 7 questions bearing Nos. 2, 26, 33, 41, 42, 93 and 107 were found to be wrong, so those were deleted. According to petitioners, there were 13 questions and not 7 questions with discrepancies. The petitioners' objection relates to question Nos. 2, 6, 10, 26, 33, 41, 42, 55, 72, 93, 94, 96 & 107. Thus, the dispute is with regard to question Nos. 6, 10, 55, 72, 94 & 96, whereas the remaining questions pointed out by the petitioners have been admitted by the Commission to be wrong and, as such, have been deleted and their marks adjusted on pro-rata basis. The text of wrong questions objected to by the petitioners, stand of the Commission and the key answers read as under: (b) It is the 0 degree longitude (c) It is the 90 degree east
 longitude (d) It is the 189 degree
 longitude ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 6. What is the length of India's Two option b Question is "C" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 10. Which State in India has more None of the Question is "B" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 26. Iron articles rust because of The question
 the formation of No correct stands deleted (a) Ferrous chloride option given. (b) Ferric sulphate (c) Ferric chloride (d) A mixture of ferrous and
 ferric chloride ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 33. B is 10 km north-east of A and No correct The question
 10 km south-east of C. How far option. stands
 is C from A? deleted. (a) 8 km (b) 10 km (c) 12 km (d) 10/2 km ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 41. Which Lok Sabha had two Two options a The question
 Speakers'? & d are stands (a) First correct. deleted. (b) Second (c) Third (d) Fifth ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 42. Which Constitutional No correct The question
 Amendment in India made option given. stands
 primary education a deleted. fundamental right? (a) 80th (b) 81st (c) 82nd (d) 83rd ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 55. The New Economic Policy Two options a i. No repre- "D" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 72. How many times Kumbha Kumb Mela Question is "C" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 93. "Kresset" is the name of the i. No correct The question
 Parliament of option given. stands (a) Ukraine ii. Spelling deleted. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 94. Who started the Home Rule i. Two options Question is "B" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 96. The Anusilan Samiti was No correct Question is "B" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 107. Who was the first Muslim No correct The question
 President of the Indian option given. stands
 National Congress? deleted. (a) Ajmal Khan (b) M. A. Jinnah (c) Maulana Azad (d) Rahimulla Sayani ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 35. From the above table, first thing which is conspicuous, is that the objection of petitioners to question numbers 6, 41, 55 & 94 is that there are two correct answer options, whereas the Commission has deleted Q. No. 41 alone, while regarding other questions its simplicitor stand is that the questions are 'OK'. It has not been specifically stated as to whether the objection of petitioners is factually correct or incorrect in the light of any expert's opinion. The Commission ought to have taken a specific stand after obtaining the opinion of expert on the validity of disputed questions, the same being in the realm of experts. In the absence of expert's opinion, the reply of Commission can only be treated as evasive, therefore, under law deserves to be rejected, and it is to be accepted that the Commission impliedly admits the objection of petitioners being factually correct. As such, there can be no justification for not deleting Q. Nos. 6, 55 & 94, when on the same objection the Commission has deleted Q. No. 41. Likewise, for the same reason, Q. Nos. 10 & 96 ought to have been deleted, because the Commission has deleted Q. Nos. 2, 26, 33, 42 & 107 with identical objection and there is no factual denial to the objection in the light of any expert's opinion. 36. So far as question No. 72 is concerned, the question refers to Kumbh and not the Ardh Kumbh. There is sharp distinction between the two. The question cannot be said to be misleading. 37. Thus, from the above, it comes out that the Commission ought to have deleted 12 questions instead of seven. OPTIONAL PAPERS 38. At the time of filling up the application forms, each candidate at his option was entitled to choose one subject out of 22 given subjects. The second paper in optional subjects carried 300 marks for 120 questions, each question having 2.5 marks. As per the stand of petitioners, there were large number of wrong questions in the option papers of 13 subjects out of 22 given subjects. For test check, I am taking the optional subject-paper of Sociology with 'A' series. The following is the text of questions, objections of petitioners, stand of the Commission and the key answers: express (a) War of blood (b) War of
 prestige (c) War of power (d) War of
 poverty -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 116 The Article in the Constitution of No correct option As per expert "D" -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 118 A musician singing at a concert is an Question was subjective As per expert "C" -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 39. From the above table it is manifest that by and large the objections of petitioners to the questions fall in one or more of the following categories: 40. These objections relate to 40 questions, out of which the Commission has already deleted two questions and, thus, the dispute relates to 38 questions. I would deal with the objections category-wise. PRINTING ERRORS/SPELLING MISTAKES: 41. The Commission does not dispute the fact that there were printing errors/spelling mistakes in the undeleted questions or in answer options. 42. According to Mr. Raina, learned senior counsel for the Commission, the objection of petitioners is untenable because of the remedial steps taken by the Commission. He submits that firstly the printing errors were so minor that the candidates having knowledge of the subject could have very well interpreted as to what was being asked from them in the question. The mistakes being negligible would not have misled the candidates having knowledge of the subject. Secondly, he submits that during the course of examination when the candidates brought such printing errors to the notice of supervisory staff, the staff in turn through phone conveyed those errors to the Control Room, specially set up by the Commission, where the Chairman and the Controller of Examination opened the original manuscripts of the papers and tallied those with the printed booklets. Thereafter, they conveyed the clarifications to the concerned Supervisors for making necessary announcements, which, accordingly, were made in the examination centres, where the candidates were taking the examination in those subject papers having printing errors. 43. To the contrary, the contention of Mr. Sethi, supported by other learned Counsel for the writ petitioners, is that the questions with printing errors could be intelligible or not is without any relevance. According to him, the paper was not oral but was a written paper, so a candidate was to understand the questions as they were in the paper and reply the same keeping in view the given answer options. A question with printing error/spelling mistakes cannot be said to be a correct question. HP submits that no announcements for correcting the errors were ever made in the examination halls. Assuming that those were made, even then going by the magnitude of errors, it cannot be reasonably accepted that all the candidates could have made the corrections in the question papers accurately in view of their being in a strenuous state of mind. He further submits that the duration of paper was two hours and in that short spell it was humanly impossible for the Commission to complete the exercise of making verifications, then conveying the correct spellings to the Supervisors for making announcements in the examination halls, when the spelling mistakes not related to one paper but related to about 13 papers. 44. It is not being disputed by the Commission that in nine optional subject-papers there were spelling mistakes in the questions and in answer options of the questions. When a candidate is made to appear in a written paper, he is supposed to take the paper as it is for selecting an answer. It cannot reasonably be accepted that a candidate, who possesses the knowledge of the subject in which he was taking the paper, should have firstly understood the correct meaning of a wrongly spelled question and himself corrected the mistake and then selected the correct answer option. The capability/merit of such a candidate was not to be judged on the basis of his proficiency in correcting the spellings of misspelled words, but was to be judged on the basis of his given answer option, which he would have chosen for answering the question as it was. I, therefore, cannot agree with Mr. Raina that as the spelling errors in the questions could be intelligible to the candidates possessing knowledge of the subject, the same would not effect the correctness of the questions. The spelling mistake in a question of a written question paper invalidates the question itself. 45. The further contention of Mr. Raina that remedial measures were taken by the Commission by identifying the mistakes in the spellings of questions and rectifying the same by way of announcements made in the examination centres, is equally untenable for the reason that no affidavit of any supervisor of any of such centres, in which the candidates were taking subject question papers having spelling errors, has been filed to say that those announcements were actually made by him in the examination centres. 46. In this behalf, I have perused the record of Commission. From the record nothing is available to point out as to which were those questions, the spellings of which were sought to be clarified by the supervisory staff of any Examination Centre, and which were the questions actually verified by the Commission and conveyed to the respective Supervisors for making the announcements. In the absence of such record, it cannot be accepted that the printing errors/spelling mistakes in the question papers were duly rectified by actual announcements in the Examination Centres. Therefore, all the questions, which have wrong spellings of the words used therein have to be treated as wrong questions. In all, there are 12 such questions in Sociology paper, i.e., Q. Nos. 17, 37, 46, 53, 60, 72, 73, 83, 93, 97, 98 and 113 with printing errors/spelling mistakes. Out of these questions, the Commission itself has deleted Q. No. 113. In Q. No. 113 there was printing error in the word 'Kwekiuti'. 47. The stand of Commission that the questions having only major printing errors or those which had not been corrected by announcements were deleted is equally unacceptable. There is no record available to show the questions which were actually corrected by announcements. Therefore, neither it can be said nor it has been shown by the Commission which were those questions having printing errors and deserved correction, but had not been corrected through announcements in the Examination Centres. Moreover, there is no policy decision shown to have been taken by the Commission for defining which printing errors would be considered as major printing errors and which printing errors would be deemed to be minor printing errors. In the absence of such policy decision, the Commission could not have validly made any distinction between the questions with major printing errors and the questions with minor printing errors for the purposes of making deletion of questions from the question papers. If the Commission in its wisdom deleted Q. No. 113 from the question paper because of printing error, then on the same principle the Commission ought to have deleted all the questions which were having printing errors in the paper of Sociology. The action of Commission regarding deletion of only one question out of the questions having printing errors/spellings mistakes suffers from the vice of arbitrariness and unreasonableness. Therefore, all the said 11 questions also deserved deletion on the analogy of Q. No. 113 from the question paper of Sociology. 48. Further, let us assume that announcements were made in the examination centres for correcting the spellings of wrong questions. For instance, take the paper of Sociology, in which admittedly there were 12 questions with spelling mistakes/printing errors. Some time must have been consumed by the Supervisors of the concerned centres to register the objections of the candidates, then for conveying the same to the Control Room set up by the Commission. In the Control Room also some time must have been consumed by the Chairman and the Controller of Examination to verify the correct spellings from the original manuscripts of the said questions and, thereafter, conveying the same to the supervisory staff. Thereafter, the supervisory staff would also have taken some time for making the announcements for correcting the spellings of 12 mis-spelled questions. In all probability, each question must have taken at least one minute for being corrected. In this way, atleast 12 minutes out of total two hours must have been wasted. It is not the case of Commission that the time fixed for completion of such papers was ever extended. The non-extension of time also suggests that in the examination centres announcements for correction of spelling mistakes may not have been actually made at all. From whatever angle we look at the issue, only one conclusion we can reasonably reach is that all the questions, which have spelling errors, must be treated as wrong questions and, therefore, should also be deleted. 49. Likewise, the petitioners objected 8 questions of Zoology subject-paper; 11 questions of Geology; 9 questions of Geography; 8 questions of Chemistry; 6 questions of Agriculture; 6 questions of Mathematics; 2 questions of Mechanical Engineering and 1 question of Law, on the ground of being invalid because of spelling mistakes/printing errors, According to the Commission, these 55 questions of above-said eight subjects have not been deleted, as the same were also got corrected through announcements made in the Examination Halls and the mistakes were intelligible to the candidates having knowledge of the subject. For the reasons already given, the stand of Commission in this regard cannot be accepted and, therefore, the above-referred 55 questions, in addition to 11 pointed out questions of Sociology subject-paper, in all also deserved to be deleted, besides the already deleted questions. QUESTIONS CARRYING NO CORRECT OPTION/CARRYING MORE THAN ONE CORRECT OPTION: 50. The Commission has deleted some of the questions out of the questions pointed out by the petitioners having no correct option or with more than one correct option. The stand of Commission is that the questions objected to by the petitioners were got checked up by the experts, including independent experts, and going by the experts' opinion it deleted the wrong questions. 51. I have perused the record of the Commission maintained in this behalf. I am referring to Sociology subject. The petitioners have objected to 14 questions being Q. Nos. 2, 3, 12, 18, 19, 30, 46, 49, 56, 59, 85, 94, 105 & 116. The Commission has deleted Q. No. 56 alone. From the perusal of record, it appears that the Commission forwarded the representations of the candidates to the expert other than the paper-setter for his opinion. The expert has rendered two opinions dated 11.7.2005 and 14.7.2005. The first one reads: 52. The above opinion of the expert though is general in character, but over rules the objection of petitioners. Unless contrary is established by authentic material, the opinion of the expert cannot be allowed to be questioned and must be respected by the Court. Learned Counsel appearing for petitioners seek to refer to various text books on the subject, but this is not the area where the Court should tread upon, the same being in the realm of experts. 53. It has also been urged by the learned Counsel for petitioners that the questions in issue should be referred to an independent expert appointed by the Court. However, in my view it is not necessary, because the necessity of appointing another expert can arise only in case for some valid reason the opinion of the expert is seen as doubtful. Simply because the petitioners are doubting the correctness of the opinion of expert appointed by the Commission, it does not mean the opinion rendered by the expert has become doubtful. The opinion or the credibility of an expert does not stand impeached simply because the expert has been appointed by the Commission on its own. The Commission being not a private person but being a constitutional body, all its actions, howsoever illegal may be, are to be presumed to be free from malice. There is nothing available on record on which any malice towards the petitioners can be inferred. In view of the expert's opinion dated 14.7.2005, the objection of petitioners on the above said ground does not merit to be entertained. Identical is the position with regard to the objections on the above said ground relating to some of the questions of other subject papers. QUESTIONS ARE SUBJECTIVE IN NATURE AND OPEN TO VARIOUS INTERPRETATIONS. 54. The objections in this regard are also not tenable. Note 4 appended to the paper reads: 55. In some of the subject-papers the petitioners have objected the questions which have been repeated. As the key answers are the same, therefore, a question, which has been repeated, cannot be said to be a wrong question. Objection has also been raised to certain questions of some subject-papers on the ground that those are out of syllabus. The opinion of the examiner obtained by the Commission refutes the correctness of the objection. The Court cannot act as an expert to make such an exercise to find out whether the objected questions are within the syllabus or outside the same. The opinion of the examiner can be accepted in this behalf. 56. This apart, the petitioners have questioned the correctness of some questions of optional papers, in regard to which the Commission has not taken any stand whatsoever. For instance, Q. Nos. 28, 56 & 67 of Chemistry paper in "A" series were objected to on the ground that there was no correct functional group given in the option or there was no correct option, but the Commission has not taken any stand so as to say whether the correct functional group was given in Q. No. 56 or whether Q. Nos. 28 & 67 had one of the correct options. In the absence of specific stand of the Commission as regard the correctness of these questions, it is to be assumed that the Commission impliedly admits that these questions are wrong. Likewise, for the same reason Q. Nos. 101 & 110 of Law, Q. No. 43 of Political Science and Q. No. 89 of Zoology subject-papers in "A" series, and Q. Nos. 29, 56, 77, 100 & 112 of Mathematics subject-paper in "B" series are also treated as wrong questions and, therefore, deserved deletion. 57. From the above factual position, it is evident that apart from 64 wrong questions, which the Commission on its own deleted, many more questions pointed out also deserved deletion under the methodology adopted by the Commission. If that is done now, the merit of the candidates, who have been short-listed for the Main Examination and of those who have remained unsuccessful, would come to be largely altered, which may result in ouster of some of the selected/short-listed candidates from the select list and inclusion of some of the unsuccessful candidates in the select list because of consequent improvement in their merit position. 58. The contention of Mr. Raina, learned Counsel for the Commission is that the individual merit position of most of the writ petitioners is so low that even if they get the benefit of deletion of more questions, even then they cannot reach near the merit of last selected candidate. 59. Whereas, Mr. Shah, Mr. Kapoor and Mr. Chopra, learned Counsel for the short-listed candidates contend that there is no need to redraw the merit. According to them, in case of deletion of questions having printed errors/spelling mistakes and the questions which are admittedly wrong and have not been deleted, the same would not change the merit position of the unsuccessful candidates including the writ petitioners. It has been submitted by them that the benefit of deletion of questions and adjustment of marks of such questions pro-rata would confer equal benefit upon all the candidates who have appeared in the papers, of which such questions are to be deleted. According to them, even if the individual merit of a candidate improves, his comparative merit position qua the other candidates of the same paper would remain the same. 60. The question in issue is not whether petitioners' improved merit would bring them near to the merit obtained by the last selected candidate. The issue under consideration is whether the selection of short-listed candidates is fair. Undisputedly, by deletion of more questions, the merit of the candidates, who appeared in any of the above said subject-papers, would certainly be improved. 61. In present kind of cut-throat competitions even small fractional difference in marks matters. By alteration of merit, some unselected candidates can find place in the select list, whereas some of the selected candidates may have to go out of the same. Whether the petitioners would find place in the select list or some other unsuccessful candidates, who have not come to the Court, would be immaterial for considering the validity of the selection of selected candidates. Under law, the selection of selected candidates can be up-held only if the merit of all the candidates is found to have been fairly judged. The comparative merit of the candidates cannot be said to have been fairly drawn, because the unsuccessful candidates have been denied the benefit of the methodology adopted by the Commission for distribution of the marks of such undeleted questions, which too ought to have been deleted, as pointed out earlier. 62. It is true that so far as the paper of General Studies is concerned, such improvement of merit of the candidates would not matter much, as the paper was compulsory and all the candidates will be benefited alike. But, so far as the improvement of merit of the candidates of said optional subject-papers is concerned, their merit is ultimately to be compared with the short-listed candidates, and in the event of re-drawing the merit, the same can lead to the exclusion of some of the selected candidates and inclusion of some of the unsuccessful candidates. Even a fractional improvement of merit position of an unsuccessful candidate can bring him within the selection zone. As the Commission is bound to select the person who is the best, it would not matter as to who gets selected or who goes out of the select list. The contention is, therefore, without any force. 63. Now, it shall be appropriate to examine the validity of the methodology adopted by the Commission, whereby the admitted wrong questions have been deleted and marks of such deleted questions distributed pro-rata to the remaining questions. For instance, as per the admitted stand of Commission, in the optional subject paper of Animal Husbandry, 37 questions out of 120 questions were wrong, so those were deleted. Each question was having 2.50 marks, so 37 questions carried in all 92.50 marks. When 92.50 marks were distributed amongst remaining 83 questions, each question's marks got increased to 3.61 marks. Thus, the performance of a candidate was judged on the basis of questions he correctly answered out of 83 questions, each question having 3.61 marks. 64. The contention of learned Counsel for petitioners is that the methodology adopted by the Commission is unfair, unreasonable and impractical. For illustrating his view point, Mr. Rahul Pant, learned Counsel for some of the petitioners, submits that suppose a candidate "X", who had opted for Animal Husbandry subject-paper, correctly answered 50 questions out of 83 questions, he would be getting 3.61 ? 50 = 180.50 marks. Similarly, a candidate "Y", who appeared in a subject paper with no wrong question, also correctly answered 50 questions out of 120 questions, he would be getting 2.50 ? 50 = 125 marks only. Thus, the candidate "X" would be getting 55.50 more marks than the candidate "Y", while both the candidates have correctly answered 50 questions. Mr. Raina, learned Counsel for the Commission, submits that in the above illustration the candidate 'X" would be in an advantageous position, meaning thereby that the petitioners have gained, so they should not be allowed to raise the grievance. 65. The question in issue is not whether the petitioners were put in an advantageous position due to the fact that their subject papers had wrong questions or were in a disadvantageous position. The public Service Commission is a Public Institution created for safeguarding the interests of public by making selection of most meritorious persons to the public offices, so its every act/action towards a selection process for being valid has to meet the test of fairness and reasonableness. No act/action can be fair and reasonable if it is not free from arbitrariness, un-reasonableness and malafide. Arbitrariness flows from an action which gives unequal treatment to equals. A selection process, which puts some candidates in an advantageous position and others in disadvantageous position in the same selection process, would be unfair. 66. Be it so, the fact of the matter is that the mistakes do have crept in the question papers and the situation/problem arising therefrom warranted immediate remedial measures. One way to deal with the problem could be to cancel all such subject-papers in which there were wrong questions and to hold fresh examination, while the other way would have been to make adjustments of marks while evaluating the answer scripts. The Commission in its own wisdom has preferred the other way to deal with the issue and evolved the already described methodology. A candidate who had opted for any of the subjects, out of the subjects of which the question papers were having wrong questions, was to be pitted against a candidate in whose optional subject-papers there were no wrong questions/mistakes. 67. In the example cited by the learned Counsel for petitioners, it is true that the candidate "X" would have got 180.50 marks by attempting 50 questions correctly and the candidate "Y" would have got 125 marks also by attempting 50 questions correctly, but for determining their comparative merit, it would be required to be seen whether both of them can be said to stand at par. The candidate "X" out of 83 questions answered 50 questions correctly, while the candidate "Y" answered 50 questions correctly out of 120 questions. Both the candidates had similar kind of advantages and disadvantages. "X" had the advantage of having increased marks for each question he attempted correctly and disadvantage of having less number of total questions for making an attempt, while the candidate "Y" had the advantage of having more number of total questions for making an attempt, with disadvantage of each question having less marks. When advantage and disadvantage of both the candidates is balanced, it appears that both of them can be deemed to be at the same position in relation to the available chances for showing their performance. The distribution of marks of deleted questions of a paper to the remaining questions pro-rata, therefore, can not be said to have caused any prejudice to any of them. 68. The methodology adopted, therefore, can not be considered unfair, because going by the probability factor a candidate's rate of performance for undeleted questions can reasonably be taken as his rate of performance for deleted questions as well. Therefore, by no stretch of reasoning the modus operandi evolved can be said to be unfair or unreasonable. 69. The net result of the aforesaid discussion is that: 70. In the light of above conclusion/findings arrived at, the question arising for consideration is what relief should be granted in the facts and circumstances of the case. For answering the question, a few more undisputed facts need to be noticed. 71. That fact of the matter is that after OWP No. 442/2005 came to be filed, the Court vide order dated 10.10.2005 passed the following interim direction: 72. Against the above order, two candidates, who were then not parties to the writ petition, went in Letters Patent Appeal before the Division Bench. The learned Division Bench vide its order dated 15.12.2005 disposed of LPA No. 126/2005, modifying order dated 10.10.2005 by providing as follows: 73. Aggrieved by the order of learned Division Bench, the writ petitioners in OWP No. 442/2005 filed an application before the Hon'ble Supreme Court for obtaining leave to file the Special Leave Petition. However, the same was sought to be withdrawn by the said writ petitioners and ultimately it came to be dismissed as withdrawn on 3.2.2006. 74. Pursuant to the directions of Division Bench, the Public Service Commission conducted the Main Examination of the candidates who stood short-listed on the basis of Preliminary Examination under dispute. The Commission has also issued the list of those candidates who have been declared to have qualified the Main Examination. However, interviews of all those qualified candidates are yet to be held by the Commission. In the meanwhile, in an another matter, i.e., IA No. 2 (in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 96/2006) the Hon'ble Supreme Court vide its order dated 28.8.2006 stayed the appointments to be made pursuant to the said selection till the final decision of these writ petitions. 75. In the above backdrop, the question of relief to be granted in these writ petitions is to be considered. 76. The contention of learned Counsel for petitioners is that whole of the list of short listed candidates, prepared on the basis of Preliminary Examination held by the Commission, should be quashed and holding of fresh Preliminary Examination should be ordered. The implication of doing the same would be that, as a necessary consequence of the cancellation of whole of the list of short-listed candidates, the selection of candidates through the Main Examination shall also have to go. It is also the contention of learned Counsel for petitioners that since the order of Division Bench has come to be passed while sitting in appeal over the interim direction issued in the writ petition, therefore, the same would merge in order dated 10.10.2005 and the character of the same would remain to be as that of an interim order passed in the writ petition. According to learned Counsel for petitioners, as the interim order cannot control the final order, therefore, at the time of passing of final order it shall be open to the Court to pass any direction which it may deem appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case, uninfluenced by the contours of the interim order, which includes the order of Division Bench. 77. On the other hand, the contention of Mr. Z. A. Shah, learned Counsel for selected candidates is that pursuant to the order of Division Bench, which acquired finality after the withdrawal of application for seeking permission to file Special Leave Petition from the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the shortlisted candidates on the basis of Preliminary Examination were allowed to appear in the Main Examination during the pendency of these writ petitions. He further submits that the list of successful candidates has also been published, whereas for making the final selection only interviews are to be held by the Commission. It is also an undisputed fact that the validity of Main Examination and consequent selection of the candidates is not under challenge, either in the present petitions or in any independent petition, therefore, ends of justice and equity would be better served if in the event of petitioners' success in the writ petitions, they are also directed to be examined in a fresh Main Examination to be conducted by the Commission and, thereafter, fresh merit is drawn of all the candidates, who have already qualified and who may qualify in the fresh Main Examination. Mr. Shah submits that the interest of petitioners, which already stands protected by the order of learned Division Bench, would continue to be protected in the above manner. 78. The dispute in these writ petitions relates to the Preliminary Examination only for short-listing the number of candidates for the Main Examination. The final selection of a candidate for appointment depends upon his comparative merit obtained in the Main Examination and in the interview to be held. Undisputedly, the marks obtained by the candidates in the Preliminary Examination can be counted only for short-listing and not for making final selection for their appointments. This being the position, the principal and fundamental grievance of the writ petitioners and the candidates, who were in identical position, can only be that they have been denied the eligibility to appear in the Main Examination by not judging their merit rightly and properly. Had they been selected by short-listing, they would have only acquired the eligibility to appear in the Main Examination. It is also a fact which cannot be disputed on any valid reason that all the candidates, who have been short-listed, have not appeared in the same optional subject papers, which were having deficiencies, but many of them had appeared in the optional subject-papers which were not having any discrepancy at all. Therefore, the Preliminary Examination, as it relates to those optional subject-papers in which there was no discrepancy at all, cannot be faulted with. It is only the examination of those candidates who appeared in 13 optional subject papers, which were having discrepancies in the questions, is under challenge. In case the Preliminary Examination of candidates, who appeared in the said optional papers having discrepancies, is cancelled and fresh examination is held, their merit position would have to be readjusted in relation to those candidates who appeared in the subjects which had no discrepancy and who have already appeared in the Main Examination. At the same time, it would also have to be kept in view that quite possibly some of such candidates, who appeared in the subject-papers having no discrepancy, may not have been able to find berth in the final select list, already prepared and issued by the Commission on the basis of merit obtained in the Main Examination and, therefore, are out of competition. 79. In such like complex situation, in my considered opinion it would not be appropriate to cancel whole of the Preliminary Examination for holding a fresh examination of all the candidates. In my view, in the peculiar circumstances of the case, without disturbing the selection of short-listed candidates, justice can be done to the unselected candidates, who appeared in the optional subject-papers leaving discrepancies, by redrawing their merit afresh after deletion of pointed out undeleted questions and distribution of their marks pro-rata amongst the remaining questions and, thereafter, conquering their merit for deciding about their eligibility to appear in the Main Examination, which may be directed to be held afresh in respect of such candidates. 80. Further, as all the candidates, irrespective of their optional subject-papers, have appeared in the compulsory paper of General Studies having discrepancies, therefore, adjustment of marks of pointed out undeleted questions of General Studies have not to be confined only to the unselected candidates, who have appeared in the optional subject-papers having discrepancies, because there can be such a candidate who has not been selected/short-listed, but he if gets the benefit of adjustment of marks in the compulsory paper, his merit may improve so as to bring him within the selection zone. All the unselected candidates of optional subject-papers having no discrepancy would also be entitled to the benefit of adjustment of marks of pointed out undeleted questions of General Studies paper on pro-rata basis. So far as the candidates, who have already been short-listed for the Main Examination are concerned, they cannot in any manner be prejudiced, as they have already made it to the Main Examination and their merit obtained in the Preliminary Examination is not to be counted towards the final selection for appointment. 81. For the reasons stated above and in the facts and circumstances of the case, I allow all the writ petitions and direct the Public Service Commission as follows: 82. Before parting with this judgment, I won id like to say that it is very unfortunate that the candidates, who were computing to get employment in the coveted services of the State, after having put in so many years in studies, have to litigate for their lawful rights, denial of which emanates from the lack of expertise in conducting the examination on the part of none else than the Public Service Commission, which is a premier and constitutional examination conducting body of the State. Out of 23 subject-papers, which include the compulsory paper of General Studies, in which the candidates were examined for short-listing, there were major discrepancies and printing errors in 14 papers. With the experience of conducting the examination, which the Commission had, and with the kind of expertise expected from such like examination conducting body, it should not have happened. Why it happened, the explanation given by the Commission is that it got number of question papers prepared at the hands of very senior Professors/Deans of various Universities and Institutions across the Country and outside the State of Jammu & Kashmir. The paper-setters were required to put the question papers in the envelopes/packets, which were signed and sealed by them. Such sealed packets, with reference to each subject, were pooled in an another question bank. Thereafter, to avoid any possibility of interception/interference of secrecy in the question papers, in the Commission one of such sealed packets/manuscripts/papers of each subject, out of number of sealed packets/manuscripts/papers, was picked up at random by the Chairman of Commission and directly sent to the Printing Press for designing, 'proof reading' and printing of booklet series. Thus, according to the Commission, the spelling mistakes, which were existing in the papers, crept in due to the printing error. 83. The explanation given is exfacie unacceptable, as it was the duty of Commission to do the job of proof reading itself so as to avoid any printing error. The plea that the said job was left to the Printer itself for maintaining the secrecy is not tenable. Was there any dearth of such officers in the Commission who could be trusted with the job of proof reading of the papers? I am sure there would be many such officers in the Commission whose integrity cannot be questioned. Had any one of them been deputed for the job and a little care taken, the situation would not have been as grave as it is. It is only because of the casual approach, which may be called euphemistically over-cautious approach, the petitioners have been forced to take resort in the litigation. I am sure that this case will serve as an eye-opener for the Public Service Commission and in future no such thing will be allowed to happen, and all the necessary steps for improving the system shall be taken. 84. At the same time, I would also like to record my displeasure over the manne ' in which the two Members of the Commission, namely, Professor B. K. Tiku and Dr. N. A. Jan have filed their replies, in which they have made allegations in relation to the working of Commission as well as its Chairman. They deserve to be reminded of the fact that they being the members of the Commission were bound to defend its decisions, which the Commission had taken in its meetings referred to in the earlier part of judgment. In an institution where decisions are required to be taken by a group of persons in position on the basis of majority opinion, if during the decision making process some member expresses his dissent or reservation, the same gets obliterated when ultimately final decision is taken. Being bound by such a decision, no member of the group is entitled to publically criticize the decision on the strength of his personal views. These writ petitions along with connected CMPs, accordingly, shall stand disposed of.