S.S.SUNDAR, J.,

 (1)The above two Original Side Appeals arise out of the common order of

 the learned Single Judge dated 08.08.2014 made in A.No.5002/2013 and

 OA.No.796/2013 in CS.No.703/2013. Both appeals are filed by the 2nd

 defendant in the suit in CS.No.703/2013. Since the appeals arise out of

 the common order confirming the order of injunction and dismissing the

 application to vacate the interim order, the appeals are disposed of by

 this common judgment. 2 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 (2)The parties are generally referred to by their litigating status in the suit in

 CS.No.703/2013. The appellant is either referred to as the appellant or

 the 2nd defendant. The 1st respondent is either referred to as the plaintiff

 or the 1st respondent. (3)Brief facts that are necessary for the disposal of the above two Original

 Side Appeals are as follows: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 (5)The 1st defendant in the suit is in the business of providing business

 consultancy services and investments in India. The 2nd defendant is

 stated to be wholly owned and a subsidiary Company of 1st defendant,

 however, incorporated in Singapore and having business in Singapore.

 (6)The plaintiff has held a press conference in New Delhi, which according

 to him was to bring out the illegalities in the 'Aircel-Maxis' deal. It is the

 case of the appellant that several defamatory allegations and remarks

 were made by the plaintiff against the appellant/Company and its

 operations in Singapore to impress that the appellant is a completely

 illegal Company with the sole intention of defaming the appellant.

 Alleging that such defamatory statements had caused damage to its

 reputation and loss of business in Singapore, a suit in Suit No.581/2012

 has been filed by the appellant before the Hon’ble High Court of

 Singapore. Immediately after the filing of the said suit, the plaintiff filed

 a contempt petition in cont.P.[Crl].No.4/2012 before Hon'ble Supreme

 Court. In the proceedings in I.A.No.36/2012, filed by the plaintiff as

 intervenor in Civil Appeal.No.10660/2010, the above contempt petition 4 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 in Cont.P.[Crl.].No.4/2012 is filed on the allegation that the defamation

 suit is filed before the Singapore High Court to prejudice or interfere with

 the plaintiff's zeal to prosecute with vigour and determine the due course

 of judicial proceedings pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court. In

 other words, filing of suit itself in Singapore is described as an attempt to

 interfere with or obstruct the administration of justice attracting criminal

 contempt under Section 2[c] of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 . The

 said contempt petition filed by the plaintiff was dismissed as the plaintiff

 failed to establish any nexus between the cases filed by him before the

 Hon’ble Supreme Court and the appellant herein. It is thereafter, the

 plaintiff filed the suit in CS.No.703/2013 before this Court seeking the

 following reliefs:- https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014 (b) declaring that the defendant No.1 and the
 defendant No.1's subsidiary defendant No.2 are
 not entitled to institute any legal proceedings
 before any Court outside Chennai, India against
 the plaintiff or affecting the plaintiff on the basis
 of or as a consequence of or pursuant to the
 Press Conference dated 26.04.2012; (c) Consequently granting a permanent injunction
 restraining the defendant No.1 and more
 particularly defendant No.2 the defendant No.1's
 subsidiary from continuing with the legal
 proceedings against the plaintiff in the High
 Court of Singapore in Suit No.581/2012; (d) granting a permanent injunction restraining the
 defendant No.1 and more particularly defendant
 No.2 the defendant No.1's subsidiary from filing
 or maintaining any other suit or legal
 proceedings against the plaintiff at the High
 Court of Singapore, or at any place other than
 Chennai, India in any manner whatsoever ; and (e) award costs of the suit to the plaintiff, and pass
 such further or other orders as this Hon'ble 6 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 Court may deem proper and necessary in the
 circumstances of the case and thus render
 justice. (7)It is the case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff has done the seminal work in

 unearthing and prosecuting 2G spectrum scam and is following up the

 ramifications of the 2G spectrum scam to ensure its proper prosecution by

 the investigating/prosecuting agencies of the Government. It is stated

 that he stood by what was published in the Indian Press and he is

 prepared for Court litigation if necessary on the truth of every remark he

 has made against others. However, the plaintiff’s further case in the

 plaint is that the Press Conference was called by him on 26.04.2012 at

 New Delhi which was covered by the National television and print media

 widely and the same cannot give rise to an action for filing a suit in

 Singapore based on the availability of content in the internet as the

 plaintiff is not responsible for the publication of any content in social

 media. The plaintiff in the suit has further stated that the appellant/2nd

 defendant who is acting at the behest of the 1st defendant, is the

 subsidiary of the 1st defendant who is the Holding Company. Further, it 7 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 is stated in the plaint that Chennai is the most obvious common place

 where the litigation has to be pursued and the institution of suit in

 Singapore High Court is against the well established principle ‘Forum

 Conveniens'. (8)In the suit filed by the plaintiff in CS.No.703/2013, an original

 application in OA.No.796/2013 is filed by plaintiff for ad-interim

 injunction restraining the appellant and 1st defendant either directly or

 through its agents from filing / prosecuting any suit in a foreign Forum

 more particularly prosecuting the defamation suit in Suit No.581/2012

 pending before the High Court of Singapore. An order of injunction was

 granted and thereafter, the appellant filed an application A.No.5002/2013

 for vacating interim injunction. (9)In the counter affidavit filed by the appellant/2nd defendant in the suit,

 apart from projecting factual issues, the appellant has raised the following

 issues:- suit injunction in regard to proceedings which are
 oppressive or vexatious or in a forum non-conveniens.

 (3) Where jurisdiction of a court is invoked on the basis
 of jurisdiction clause in a contract, the recitals therein
 in regard to exclusive or non-exclusive jurisdiction of
 the court of choice of the parties are not determinative
 but are relevant factors and when a question arises as
 to the nature of jurisdiction agreed to between the
 parties the court has to decide the same on a true
 interpretation of the contract on the facts and in the
 circumstances of each case. (4) A court of natural jurisdiction will not normally
 grant anti-suit injunction against a defendant before it
 where parties have agreed to submit to the exclusive
 jurisdiction of a court including a foreign court, a
 forum of their choice in regard to the commencement
 or continuance of proceedings in the court of choice,
 save in an exceptional case for good and sufficient
 reasons, with a view to prevent injustice in 20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 circumstances such as which permit a contracting
 party to be relieved of the burden of the contract; or
 since the date of the contract the circumstances or
 subsequent events have made it impossible for the party
 seeking injunction to prosecute the case in the court of
 choice because the essence of the jurisdiction of the
 court does not exist or because of a vis major or force
 majeure and the like. (5) Where parties have agreed, under a non-exclusive
 jurisdiction clause, to approach a neutral foreign
 forum and be governed by the law applicable to it for
 the resolution of their disputes arising under the
 contract, ordinarily no anti-suit injunction will be
 granted in regard to proceedings in such a forum
 conveniens and favoured forum as it shall be presumed
 that the parties have thought over their convenience
 and all other relevant factors before submitting to the
 non-exclusive jurisdiction of the court of their choice
 which cannot be treated just as an alternative forum.

 (6) A party to the contract containing jurisdiction
 clause cannot normally be prevented from approaching
 the court of choice of the parties as it would amount to 21 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 aiding breach of the contract; yet when one of the
 parties to the jurisdiction clause approaches the court
 of choice in which exclusive or non-exclusive
 jurisdiction is created, the proceedings in that court
 cannot per se be treated as vexatious or oppressive nor
 can the court be said to be forum non-conveniens.

 (7) The burden of establishing that the forum of choice
 is a forum non-conveniens or the proceedings therein
 are oppressive or vexatious would be on the party so
 contending to aver and prove the same.''

 (16)From the reading of the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in

 Modi Entertainment Network case [cited supra], the Hon’ble Supreme

 Court, in unambiguous terms, held that the appropriate Courts in India

 have power to issue anti-suit injunction to a party over whom it has

 personal jurisdiction, in an appropriate case. Therefore, the reading of

 the whole judgment leaves no doubt that unless the person against whom

 an anti-suit injunction is sought, is amenable to the jurisdiction of High

 Court, it cannot grant anti-suit injunction. Even when the Court has

 personal jurisdiction against a person, having regard to the rule of comity, 22 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 the power to grant anti-suit injunction can be exercised sparingly. In

 other words, only when the Court is convinced that the Court has

 personal jurisdiction to reach the person against whom anti-suit

 injunction is sought, that is, the person is amenable to the personal

 jurisdiction of the Court, the Court may consider having regard to the

 convenience of the parties and on satisfying that the proceedings in the

 other Court are oppressive or vexatious or in a Forum non conveniens, to

 grant anti-suit injunction. (17)Learned Senior counsel appearing for the appellant/2nd defendant relied

 upon another judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of World Tanker Carrier Corporation [WTCC] Vs. SNB Shipping Services

 Private Limited reported in 1998 [5] SCC 310. The facts of the case are

 relevant to understand the ratio. The appellant before the Hon’ble

 Supreme Court, a Foreign company, owning a vessel ‘New World’

 registered in Hong Kong, was involved in a collision in international

 waters of the Coast of Portugal with another vessel ‘Ya Mawlaya’

 registered in Cyprus and was owned by a company, by name M/s.Kara 23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 Mara Shipping Company Limited also registered in Cyprus. As a result

 of collision, 8 crew members of the vessel ‘New World’ died. There were

 injuries to some of the crew members and there was damage to both the

 vessels. There was also damage to the cargo of soya beans belonging to

 an Italian Firm which had been loaded on the vessel, in New Orleans,

 USA. M/s.Kara Mara, the owner of the vessel ‘Ya Mawlaya’ entered

 into a Management Agreement with the respondent therein, a company

 registered in India for management of the vessel 'Ya Mawlaya'.

 Thereafter, M/s.Kara Mara sold the vessel to another foreign Company

 known as ‘Vestman Shipping Company Limited’ and became the bare

 boat Charterers of the vessels. Several proceedings were initiated by

 various claimants against the owners of the vessel ‘Ya Mawlaya’ in the

 District Court of New Orleans, USA, including the proceedings initiated

 by the appellant therein M/s.WTCC for recovery of damages on account

 of the damage caused to their ship ‘New World’. The legal heirs of some

 of the crew members who died in the collision also filed civil actions for

 various amounts against M/s.Kara Mara. M/s.Kara Mara initiated 24 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 proceedings in Lisbon, Portugal, in which the vessel ‘New World’ was

 arrested. M/s.Kara Mara filed an action for limitation of liability in the

 Supreme Court of Hong Kong against M/s.WTCC and all possible

 claimants. It also made an application for limitation of its liability before

 the District Court of New Orleans, USA. During pendency of these

 proceedings, the respondent therein filed an Admiralty suit in Bombay

 High Court for limitation of respondent’s liability in respect of the said

 collision. Interim reliefs were also prayed for restraining the defendants

 in the Admiralty suit who had instituted suits in U.S. Courts or elsewhere

 from, in any manner proceeding with the pre-trial proceedings or hearing

 of the complaints/civil action instituted by them in the U.S. Courts or

 elsewhere (anti-suit injunctions). Much after filing of the Admiraty suit

 before Bombay High Court, the vessel 'Ya Mawlaya' was brought to the

 Court of Bombay under Ballast and it was arrested. Later, M/s.Kara

 Mara the erstwhile owner of the ship ‘Ya Mawlaya’ filed an Admiralty

 suit seeking limitation of their liability and setting up of a limitation fund

 in respect of their liability arising from the collision of their vessel. 25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 Although M/s.WTCC the owner of ‘New World’ did not appear in the

 suits initially, later appeared under protest to contest the issue of

 jurisdiction of Bombay High Court to entertain the admiralty suits to be

 tried as a preliminary issue. In the two admiralty suits, Bombay High

 Court granted anti suit injunction against M/s.WTCC restraining it from

 proceeding against its clients in the Court at New Orleans, USA.

 Contempt proceedings were also initiated for breach of the orders passed

 by the Bombay High Court in this connection. By an order of the

 Bombay High Court in the contempt proceedings, the defence of

 M/s.WTCC, the owner of ‘New World’ was ordered to be struck off. A

 Division Bench of the High Court ultimately held that M/s.WTCC would

 be given one more chance to defend the proceedings on condition that in

 future it would comply with all the orders of the Court. It was also held

 that the High Court of Bombay had jurisdiction to entertain and try the

 suits. Pursuant to the motions filed by M/s.Kara Mara and the

 respondent, the High Court also passed an order directing WTCC to

 deposit in the Bombay High Court US $ 15 Million and the interest 26 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 accrued thereon to secure compliance by WTCC of orders of the Bombay

 High Court. (18)As against the order of the Division Bench, the Hon’ble Supreme Court

 entertained the appeal filed by M/s.WTCC and has held as follows: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014 39. The entire course of conduct appears to be a
 deliberate attempt on the part of the plaintiffs to bring
 the limitation action in Bombay with a view to obtain
 anti-suit injunctions against all the claimants who have
 filed proceedings against the owners and YA Mawlaya
 in the courts of the United States prior to the filing of
 the admiralty suit here. The Bombay High Court,
 therefore, ought not to have entertained Admiralty Suit
 No. 26 of 1995 brought by SNP and others. 40. Admiralty Suit No. 28 of 1996 is filed by
 Kara Mara for the purpose of setting up a limitation
 fund and to obtain an anti-suit injunction in respect of
 all pending litigations against it in foreign courts. In
 the case of Kara Mara which is a foreign company
 registered in Cyprus, no part of the cause of action has
 arisen within the jurisdiction of the Bombay High
 Court. The vessel which met with the collision giving
 rise to liability is a foreign vessel. The collision took
 place in the high seas off the port of Portugal. All the
 claims against Kara Mara have been filed in foreign
 courts and the claims which have now been filed before 28 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 the Bombay High Court are not the claims which can
 be subjected to limitation. 41. Kara Mara, however, claims jurisdiction on
 the ground that its vessel YA Mawlaya was in the
 Bombay harbour at the time when it filed its suit for
 limitation. Reliance is placed on Section 2(2) of the
 Merchant Shipping Act for this purpose. Section 2(2) ,
 however, has no application to a limitation action per
 se, as stated earlier. A limitation action is not directed
 against the ship nor can the action be instituted by the
 arrest of the foreign vessel present in the territorial
 waters of the country where the action is instituted. It is
 an action by the owner acting personally against his
 claimants who are seeking damages in respect of the
 loss or injury caused by the owner's vessel. Therefore,
 the presence of a foreign vessel in the territorial waters
 will not give the court jurisdiction to entertain a
 limitation action by its owner unless the presence of the
 foreign vessel has given rise to an admiralty action by
 a claimant in that court, which claim is subject to
 limitation, or the presence of the vessel has created a
 likelihood of such action being taken there, or the court
 is a domiciliary court of the owner attracting such 29 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 claims there. That is not the case here. In fact, at the
 time when Kara Mara filed the suit all claims were
 already filed against it in the foreign court at New
 Orleans, U.S.A. No doubt Kara Mara had challenged
 the jurisdiction of that court and had succeeded in the
 first round. But that was by no means a final
 adjudication. Nor can one legitimately conclude from
 this the likelihood of claims being filed in Bombay. In
 the present case, the Bombay High Court is not the
 domiciliary court of Kara Mara or its vessel. Nor is
 any claim for liability which can be limited, filed
 against Kara Mara in the Bombay High Court. None of
 the defendants to the suit is within the jurisdiction of
 the Bombay High Court. The fortuitous presence of the
 ship in the Bombay harbour will not entitle the owner
 to file a limitation action in the Bombay High Court in
 the absence of any claim being made or apprehended
 against him or the vessel in that court. 42. Therefore, bringing the ship to the Bombay
 port, in order to confer jurisdiction on the Bombay
 High Court, has the character of forum-shopping,
 rather than anything else. 30 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014 43. The presence of a foreign defendant who
 appears under protest to contest jurisdiction, cannot be
 considered as conferring jurisdiction on the court to
 take action. Unless a foreign defendant either resides
 within jurisdiction or voluntarily appears or has
 contracted to submit to the jurisdiction of the court, it
 is not possible to hold that the court will have
 jurisdiction against a foreign defendant. See in this
 connection R. Viswanathan v. Rukn-ul-Mulk Syed
 Abdul Wajid [AIR 1963 SC 1 : ( 1963) 3 SCR 22] (SCR
 at p. 51) and Raj Rajendra Sardar Moloji Nar Singh
 Rao Shitole v. Shankar Saran [AIR 1962 SC 1737 : Learned Judge relied upon the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in

 the case of Vodafone International Holdings Vs. Union of India and

 Others reported in 2012 [6] SCC 613. The learned Single Judge, while

 referring to the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Vodafone’s

 case [cited supra], though accepted the position that a subsidiary

 company has got separate legal existence and it is not a puppet in the

 hands of the parent or the Holding Company, observed that the decisive

 criteria is whether the parent Company’s Management has such steering

 interference with the subsidiary's core activities that the subsidiary can no

 longer be regarded to perform those activities on the authority of its own

 executive directors. The learned Judge then relied upon the judgment in Vodafone 's case for the proposition that the Court should look upon 32 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 things after lifting the corporate veil to find whether the parent company

 and subsidiary company form one unit or entity ignoring the context in

 which the Hon'ble Supreme Court expressed and the ratio decidendi. It is

 well settled that a decision is an authority for what it actually decides and

 not every observation found therein or what logically flows from the

 observations made in the judgment. First of all, in Vodafone 's case the

 Court was examining the tax liability in relation to an offshore tranaction

 between the foreign countries, one of which has a representative interest

 through the appellant. Even then, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held

 that a Holding Company and a wholly owned subsidiary are two distinct

 legal persons and the holding company does not own the assets of the

 subsidiary. Therefore, the learned Judge has erroneously applied an

 observation of Hon'ble Supreme Court ignoring the principle reiterated in Vodafone case. The learned Judge then found that sufficient allegations

 are made in the complaint by the 1st respondent/plaintiff in the instant

 case that the 2nd defendant had acted at the behest of the 1st defendant

 Indian Company and that prima facie the 2nd defendant is acting only at 33 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 the behest of the 1st defendant Indian company. It is pertinent to point

 out that the learned Judge is not even conclusive on his decision whether

 the appellant herein/2nd defendant is acting at the behest of the 1st

 defendant or whether the appellant has got separate legal existence and is

 acting on its own and not depending upon the 1st defendant company

 [Indian company / Holding company] as the issue was relegated to be

 decided finally after trial of the suit. The learned Judge is convinced that

 there is prima facie case to hold that the foreign Company which has filed

 the suit against the plaintiff is controlled by the Indian company and

 therefore, the foreign company is amenable to the jurisdiction of this

 Court. We are unable to agree with such a finding in view of the decision

 of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Vodafone case [cited

 supra]. (20)The question arose before the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Vodafone case

 [cited supra] is whether a foreign company which is also a subsidiary of

 another company having business in India, is liable to pay tax in relation

 to the transaction of outrate sale between two non residents of a capital 34 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 asset [assets outside India]. On the question whether a subsidiary of a

 Holding Company is distinct in relation to all the transactions, the

 Hon’ble Supreme Court reiterated that the subsidiary company fully

 owned by a parent or Holding company does not lose its identity as a

 separate legal entity and that, it is not just a puppet of a parent company

 merely because the administration of the company is under the influence

 of a Holding Company. The Hon’ble Supreme Court held that the Companies Act in India and all over the world have statutorily recognised

 subsidiary company as a separate legal entity. A holding company is one

 which owns sufficient shares in the subsidiary company to determine who

 shall be its directors and how its affairs shall be conducted and it cannot

 be said that a subsidiary company is an agent or puppet of the Holding

 company as they have different business interest. Independent existence

 and independent identity is reiterated by the Hon’ble Supreme Court

 subject to the only limitation as seen in paragraph No.259. It is relevant

 to extract the relevant paragraphs of the judgment, namely, paragraphs

 257 to 260, which are as under:- 35 Mere ownership, parental control, management, etc. of
 a subsidiary is not sufficient to pierce the status of their 37 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 relationship and, to hold parent company liable.
 In Adams v. Cape Industries Plc. [1990 Ch 433 : 260.Courts, however, will not allow the separate
 corporate entities to be used as a means to carry out
 fraud or to evade tax. Parent company of a WOS, is not
 responsible, legally for the unlawful activities of the
 subsidiary save in exceptional circumstances, such as a
 company is a sham or the agent of the shareholder, the
 parent company is regarded as a shareholder. Multinational companies, by setting up complex
 vertical pyramid-like structures, would be able to
 distance themselves and separate the parent from
 operating companies, thereby protecting the
 multinational companies from legal liabilities.''

 (21)In the judgment in Adams and Others Vs. Cape Industries PLC and

 another reported in [1990] CH 433, the Court of Appeal has considered

 the position whether the subsidiary company which has business 38 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 operation in a foreign company is amenable to the territorial jurisdiction

 of U.S.Courts, in the following lines: Only in a case where the willful negligence of one party in approaching

 the Court is proved to have caused some irreparable damage or an injury

 to the other side or such unexplained delay is likely to affect the interest

 of third parties, a delay can be cited as a reason to non suit the plaintiff on

 the ground that the plaintiff has waived his right to seek remedy. May be

 in a case where there is no limitation applicable and the plaintiff has

 abandoned his right to seek remedy by his conduct, the Court may

 entertain the plea of laches and may not exercise its discretion. Applying

 the doctrine of laches or treating the delay as a conduct of waiver or

 acquiescence, the appellant has not pleaded any special circumstances,

 that would disentitle the plaintiff/1st respondent to file the suit in

 CS.No.703/2013. In this case, though the suit for declaration and

 injunction falls under Specific Relief Act and the Court has discretionary

 power, that alone may not justify this Court to throw the suit on the

 ground of laches. The question whether a delay is fatal to the suit or not 46 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 need not be considered at this stage even before recording evidence.

 POINT [D]:- When the suit is held to be not maintainable as against 2nd defendant who

 is not amenable to the jurisdiction of this Court, there cannot be a

 declaratory relief which is in the nature of anti-suit injunction. Unless

 the Court is prima facie satisfied that it can exercise its jurisdiction and

 grant relief against 2nd defendant, the Court will be reluctant to grant the

 consequential relief of permanent injunction which is in the nature of

 anti-suit injunction. As seen from the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme

 Court in the case of Modi Entertainment case [cited supra] reported in

 2003 [4] SCC 341, even after holding that the person against whom anti

 suit injunction is sought for is amenable to the personal jurisdiction of the

 Court, there are other circumstances which are to be considered before 51 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 granting ani-suit injunction. In the instant case, the declaratory relief

 [i.e., prayer [b]] is in the nature of anti-suit injunction. If the cause of

 action has arisen in Singapore and the 1st respondent is amenable to the

 jurisdiction of Singapore Court, the Singapore Court is the Court which

 will have natural jurisdiction to decide the defamation suit. This Court

 cannot decide whether the Singapore High Court has jurisdiction or 1st

 respondent is amenable to the jurisdiction of Singapore Court in a suit

 which is filed in a court which does not have inherent jurisdiction to

 decide the jurisdiction of a foreign Court. If this Court finds jurisdiction

 of this Court to entertain the suit to grant anti suit injunction, it may be

 open to this Court to consider various aspects and can decide on the

 questions whether the suit in Singapore is against the principles of equity

 and good conscience, whether the anti suit injunction is to avoid injustice

 and whether the suit filed in Singapore Court is oppressive or vexatious.

 In this case, we find that there is no averment in the plaint to hold that the

 appellant/2nd defendant is amenable to the jurisdiction of this Court and

 hence, the anti-suit injunction filed in CS.No.703/2013 is not 52 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 maintainable. (29)In view of our above findings on all the issues, we are of the view that

 there is no prima facie case in favour of the 1st respondent/plaintiff to

 grant any interim order as this Court has no jurisdiction to grant anti suit

 injunction restraining a foreign company from prosecuting the defamation

 suit in a foreign country. We find balance of convenience in favour of

 the appellant/2nd defendant. The 1st respondent relied upon a judgment

 of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Mohd.Mehtab Khan and

 Others Vs. Khushnuma Ibrahim Khan and Others reported in 2013 [9]

 SCC 221 for the proposition that the Appellate Court will not interfere

 with the discretion exercised by the Trial court unless the exercise of

 discretion by the Trial Court is palpably incorrect or untenable. This

 Court finds that the judgment of the learned Single Judge cannot be

 approved for the simple reason that the learned Single Judge has simply

 presumed that the appellant is amenable to the jurisdiction of this Court

 as it is a subsidiary of the 1st defendant, a company in India.

 (30)In view of our specific finding on the lack of jurisdiction of Court to 53 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 OSA.Nos.229 & 230/2014

 grant anti suit injunction against a foreign company, we need not

 elaborate the principles governing grant of interim injunction as noticed

 in the present factual context. (31)In the result, the Original Side Appeals are allowed and the common

 order dated 08.08.2014 made in A.No.5002/2013 and OA.No.796/2013 in

 CS.No.703/2013. are set aside.