% 26.04.2024 1. This bail application has been preferred on behalf of the applicant
 Yogesh Makkar S/o Hans Raj Makkar under Section 439 read with Section
 482 Cr.P.C. seeking regular bail in case FIR No. 195/2020 dated 13.11.2020
 under Sections 409 / 420 / 120B IPC, registered at PS: Economic Offences
 Wing. Charge sheet has been filed before the Trial Court. 2. Present FIR was registered on a joint complaint of Avinash Chander
 Mohan and Alka Mohan against M/s. Modex International Securities Ltd.
 ('MISL'), its Directors and officials namely, Yogesh Makkar (applicant),
 D.K. Arora, Pavan Sachdeva, Kundan Lal Grover, M/s. Modex Commodity
 Trade Pvt. Ltd. and officials of Axis Securities Ltd. As per the charge sheet,
 it was alleged that complainants were earlier dealing in share purchase
 transactions with one M/s. Way to Wealth but in the year 2012, the officials BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 1 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:05
 of the accused entities approached the complainants to invest and transfer
 their accounts to MISL. In furtherance of the same, Kundan Lal Grover met
 the complainants and painted a rosy picture inducing them to transfer their
 accounts to MISL and invest therein. After continuous persuasion and
 personal meetings with D.K. Arora and Pavan Sachdeva, on 06.09.2012,
 complainant No. 1 opened his Demat/trading account with accused Nos. 1
 and 2 bearing account No. A-202 jointly with complainant No. 2 and on
 08.02.2013, complainant No. 2 opened her Demat/trading account with
 accused Nos. 1 and 2 bearing account No. A-207 jointly with complainant
 No. 1. Several agreements and documents were signed by the complainants
 on the asking of the accused persons giving an impression that they were
 required for commencing operations/transactions and copies were not shared
 with the complainants. Pertinently, scrips were also transferred from the
 earlier accounts to the accounts opened with MISL. Apart from transferring
 the scrips, complainants also transferred the money for investment so that
 the same could be utilised for their benefit when needed. 3. It was alleged by the complainants that after all the transfers were
 made, the accused company along with D.K. Arora and Pavan Sachdeva
 acquired a complete dominion over the money as brokers or agents.
 Complainants actively transacted through their respective accounts without
 any problem until November, 2019. However, commencing December,
 2019/January, 2020, certain transactions took place with respect to the
 accounts of the complainants, which raised suspicion. It was later discovered
 that in a planned conspiracy, officials of MISL along with officials of Axis
 Securities Ltd. transferred the shares of the complainants to one of the
 margin accounts of MISL and thereafter showing those shares as their own, BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 2 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:05
 sold them and misappropriated the proceeds for their personal use, breaching
 the trust reposed by the complainants. On 01.01.2020, accused persons sold
 the commodities belonging to the complainants without any authorisation
 and on 03.01.2020, sold the cash holdings of the complainants amounting to
 Rs.1,76,91,155/-, out of which Rs.1,15,03,956/- is against A/c No. A-202
 held by complainant No. 1 and Rs. 61,87,199/- is against A/c No. A-207
 held by complainant No. 2. Subsequently, Futures that were held by the
 complainants in both the accounts were sold and the act of selling valuable
 security of the complainants showing them as belonging to MISL is an act of
 cheating and fraud. It was also alleged that the accused persons settled the
 trades of complainants in Future & Options Segment on 08.01.2020 thereby
 causing wrongful loss to the complainants to the tune of Rs.1,76,91,155/-. 4. As per the status report, during investigation, 50 other complainants
 filed their complaints against MISL and its officials leveling similar
 allegations, each of which has been clubbed in the present FIR. During the
 course of investigation, notices were issued to the complainants to join
 investigation along with relevant documents. Complainants joined
 investigation and have been examined extensively. Statements of most of the
 complainants have been recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and they have
 alleged that they were approached and induced by Sandeep Kher (Vice
 President/Marketing & Sales), Saurabh Gandhi (Vice President/Sales),
 Vikram Duggal (Director & Consultant), Kundan Lal Grover (Chief
 Financial Officer), Yogesh Makkar/applicant (Head of Demat/Depository
 Service Department), Pavan Sachdeva (Whole Time Director) and D.K.
 Arora (Whole Time Director) to open Demat accounts with MISL. The
 officials had offered to pay assured returns to the tune of 10%-12% on the BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 3 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06
 shares/securities of the complainants and 15% on the cash balance. They
 also assured that the securities shall be used for keeping margin with the
 clearing member and the said securities shall be returned to them, as and
 when desired, irrespective of the debit in their accounts. Most of the
 complainants denied having executed any trade in Future and Options
 segment through MISL. However, MISL transferred their shares/scrips to its
 common pool accounts/margin accounts and traded on behalf of the clients
 and suffered losses in Future and Options segment and thereafter to settle
 the loss in clients' accounts, MISL sold the securities of its clients.
 Moreover, the securities kept as collaterals before the clearing member i.e.
 Axis Bank were also sold by Axis Bank to cover the bank loss. Therefore,
 MISL misappropriated the shares of the complainants and caused wrongful
 loss to them. 5. It is further stated that during investigation, Demat statements and
 Demat holdings of the complainants were collected from Central Depository
 Services Limited ('CDSL') and National Securities Depository Limited
 ('NSDL'), which revealed that MISL had transferred the shares/mutual
 funds of the complainants to three pool accounts and three collateral
 accounts and the securities of MISL were also found transferred to its group
 company M/s. Modex Commodity Trades Pvt. Ltd. It is stated that during
 investigation, inspection report and forensic audit of MISL conducted by
 NSE and KPMG has been collected which revealed misappropriation of
 funds to the tune of approximately Rs.136.29 crores. As per forensic audit
 and MISL books, MISL had received net cash settlement of Rs.126.31
 crores from Exchanges against the sale and purchase of clients' securities,
 however, MISL had not transferred the said sale proceeds to its clients and BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 4 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06
 instead transferred the same to Axis Bank to settle its losses in F&O
 segment. Moreover, MISL received net sum of Rs. 9.98 crores from its
 clients and as per balance confirmations received from the bank, MISL has a
 fund shortage of Rs.48.73 crores as on 24.01.2022. This indicates that the
 net sum of Rs.9.98 crores received from clients has also been potentially
 misappropriated. Thus, MISL potentially misappropriated a fund of
 Rs.136.29 crores. 6. It is further stated that during investigation, applicant and three other
 accused were arrested on 12.10.2022. On 13.10.2022 all accused persons
 were produced before the Link Metropolitan Magistrate who granted two
 days' police custody. During the said remand, one server was recovered
 along with a hard disk at the instance of accused Pavan Sachdeva albeit the
 same was not found in a working condition and therefore, data of MISL
 could not be retrieved. During PC remand, all accused persons were
 confronted with each other and interrogated at length and it came to light
 that the applicant played an active role in the commission of the offences.
 Applicant was the Compliance Officer for CDSL and responsible for
 overseeing the operations of securities transactions. Applicant was the
 Demat Head and looking into the operations of Demat accounts of MISL
 and was also responsible for taking appropriate instructions from clients
 prior to transferring their securities to pool and margin accounts and to
 return the same on instructions from the clients. It is stated that bank
 statements of the applicant revealed that he had received a salary of
 Rs.24,000/- to Rs.50,000/- per month from 2011 to 2020 and no other
 entries were credited into his account from MISL. However, as per reply
 dated 29.10.2022 received from CDSL, it was clear that applicant has Demat BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 5 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06
 accounts with FRR Shares and Securities Ltd., Swastika Investment Ltd.,
 two accounts with Bonanza Portfolio Limited, Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt.
 Ltd., Berkeley Securities Limited, etc. Scrutiny of his Demat accounts
 further revealed that total 158 times, securities of MISL were found credited
 in the applicant's Demat accounts. On examination of Axis Bank statement,
 it came to light that applicant had received an amount of Rs.36,27,403/-
 from IIFL Securities Limited, Rs.2,52,082/- from F6 Finserve Pvt. Limited,
 Rs.1,30,000/- from Berkeley Securities Limited, Rs.21,75,175/- from Nirmal
 Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd., Rs.22,000/- from Bonanza Portfolio Limited and
 Rs.6,11,804/- from FRR Shares and Securities Ltd. It is evident from the
 financial statements etc. that applicant being the Depository Head of MISL
 misappropriated the securities of MISL/clients of MISL and transferred
 them from pool/margin accounts and other accounts of MISL to his own
 Demat accounts and later the sale proceeds of misappropriated securities i.e.
 Rs.68,18,464/- was credited in his Axis Bank account, thereby causing
 wrongful gain to himself and wrongful loss to the complainants and others.
 Charge Sheet has been filed against all the four accused persons on
 09.01.2023 and applicant is in judicial custody while Kundan Lal Grover
 and Vikram Duggal have been granted bail by the Sessions Court. Pavan
 Sachdeva is also in judicial custody. MISL is involved in 6 other cases of
 similar nature. 7. Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant submits
 that he is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case.
 Applicant was working as Back Office Executive in MISL at a salary of
 Rs.15,000/- per month since 2008. Applicant joined investigation as and
 when directed. Investigation stands concluded and Charge Sheet has been BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 6 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06
 filed. No unlawful loss has been caused by him to the complainants and
 there is no unlawful gain to him. His father, who is 78 years of age, his wife
 and two children, are completely dependent on him, as he is the sole bread
 earner of the family. Co-accused Kundan Lal Grover and Vikram Duggal
 have been granted bails vide orders dated 22.02.2023 and 24.03.2023,
 respectively. In case FIR No. 33/2020 dated 09.01.2020 under Sections
 409 / 420 / 120B IPC registered at PS: Sadar Gurugram on similar allegations
 levelled by some complainants, the Additional Sessions Judge, Gurugram,
 Haryana had granted bail to the applicant vide order dated 08.08.2023.
 Applicant is in judicial custody since 12.10.2022 and has already suffered
 prolonged incarceration. It is not the case of the prosecution that the
 applicant is a flight risk. Applicant is a respectable citizen with deep roots in
 the society. 8. It is further urged that even on merits, applicant has a good case, as
 he has no role to play in any of the transactions between MISL and the
 complainants/investors. The securities/shares transferred to the Demat
 accounts of the applicant do not belong to the complainants or investors and
 this is evident from the fact that till date, prosecution has not been able to
 segregate and bring out clearly and definitely, as to which of the
 securities/shares in the Demat accounts of the applicant pertain to the
 complainants. Applicant is not a beneficiary of any investments made by the
 complainants. In any case, alleged investments made by the complainants or
 shares/securities transferred to the account of MISL and/or their alleged
 transfer in the Demat accounts of the applicant from the margin or common
 pool account and/or transfer of sale proceeds amounting to Rs.68,18,464/- in
 the Axis bank account of the applicant as also whether or not the cheated BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 7 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06
 money was entrusted to MISL and/or to the accused persons, are all
 matters of trial and cannot be decided at this juncture. Since Charge Sheet
 has been filed no useful purpose would be served in keeping the applicant
 in custody. Charge Sheet indicates that there are 81 witnesses to be
 examined on behalf of the prosecution and therefore, the trial is not likely to
 conclude soon. 9. Learned Senior counsel placed reliance on the judgment of this Court
 in Sunder Singh Bhati v. State , 2022 SCC OnLine Del 134, where the
 offences alleged against the applicants were under Sections 406 / 409 / 420 / 120B IPC and the Court enlarged the applicants on regular bail observing
 that magnitude of offence cannot be the only criteria for denial of bail, as
 also that the applicants were in custody for over a year and Charge Sheet
 had been filed. Court also observed that the evidence available was
 documentary in nature and whether or not the applicants were entrusted with
 the cheated money, was a matter of trial. Continued custody of the
 applicants was not required in these circumstances, in the considered view
 of the Court. Reliance was also placed on the judgment of the Supreme
 Court in Sanjay Chandra v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2012) 1 SCC
 40, highlighting the observations of the Supreme Court that object of bail is
 neither punitive nor preventive and that to continue an accused in custody
 indefinitely, would be contrary to the concept of personal liberty enshrined
 in the Constitution that no person should be punished in respect of a matter
 in which he is yet to be convicted or on the belief that he would tamper with
 evidence if left at liberty, except in extraordinary circumstances. Even in
 cases of economic offences of huge magnitude, where the charge sheet is
 filed and investigation stands concluded, presence in the custody may not be BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 8 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06
 necessary and the accused can be enlarged on bail pending trial, subject to
 stringent conditions imposed by the Court granting bail. 10. Ms. Shubhi Gupta, learned APP appearing on behalf of the State, per
 contra, opposes the bail application relying on the status reports. It is urged
 that the present offences were committed in a planned and orchestrated
 manner by the applicant along with the other co-accused. The allegations are
 grave and serious and this is a case of multi-victim scam in which so far,
 over 50 victims have been identified and have been joined as complainants
 in the present FIR. 11. It is argued that applicant is not innocent and has not been falsely
 implicated. It is incorrect for the applicant to argue that the securities/shares
 transferred to the Demat accounts of the applicant did not belong to the
 complainants in the present FIR or that there is no segregation of the
 securities/shares to definitely ascertain as to which of them belonged to
 MISL and which were investments by the complainants. Statements of the
 complainants reveal that their securities/shares were transferred into the
 following accounts of MISL:- 12. On perusal of the Demat accounts' statements of the applicant BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 9 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06
 maintained with 9 other depositories, it is evident that securities/shares from
 Demat account of MISL were transferred to personal Demat accounts of the
 applicant between January, 2018 to May, 2020. Details of securities/shares
 in respect of each investor were maintained in their respective Register of
 Securities and Financial Ledger. To ascertain the correct position of the
 investors' funds and securities, the Exchange had appointed KPMG as
 forensic auditor and as per the audit report, as on 24.01.2020, there was a
 shortfall of client securities amounting to Rs.95.29 crores and shortfall of
 client funds amounting to Rs.30.53 crores with MISL. Applicant was
 Compliance Officer for CDSL and responsible for overseeing the operations
 of securities transactions. As per Delivery Instruction Slip recovered from
 the accused persons, applicant had verified the entries of client's securities
 from client's Demat account to the Demat accounts of MISL. He
 misappropriated Rs.68,18,464/- by converting the securities/shares of
 investors of MISL to his personal use. 13. It is argued that parity cannot be claimed by the applicant with co-
 accused Kundan Lal Grover and Vikram Duggal. Kundan Lal Grover was
 granted bail on the ground that he was only a salaried employee of MISL
 and had not received any monetary benefit except his own salary. Vikram
 Duggal was granted bail on the ground that the authority/right to transfer the
 complainants' money from their accounts to the margin account and from
 there to make investments in the stock market was in the hands of Whole
 Time Directors of MISL and beyond the domain of Vikram Duggal, who
 was an independent Director. Moreover, it was held by the Court that MISL
 was primarily controlled by two Vice Presidents and three Whole Time
 Directors whereas, admittedly, Vikram Duggal was non-designated Director. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06 14. It is submitted that Charge Sheet has been filed and thereafter, vide
 order dated 26.03.2024, applicant along with other co-accused has been
 charged for offences under Sections 409 / 120B IPC, which are serious
 economic offences punishable upto life imprisonment. 15. Heard learned Senior counsel for the applicant and learned APP for
 the State. 16. In a nutshell, the case of the prosecution is that the complainants for
 the purpose of investments deposited money with MISL and securities/
 shares were also transferred to the Demat accounts of the accused company.
 The investments were made on inducements by the officials of MISL,
 assuring profits and returns to the tune of 10%-12% on securities/shares and
 15% on cash balance. Complainants were allegedly assured that their
 securities will be used for keeping margin with the clearing member and
 shall be returned on demand. However, MISL transferred its securities/
 shares/scrips to its common pool/margin accounts and traded on behalf of
 the clients and suffered losses in F&O segment and to settle the loss, MISL
 sold the securities of the clients. The role attributed to the applicant is that
 being the Depository Head, he transferred the securities/ shares from the
 Demat accounts of MISL to his personal Demat accounts between January,
 2018 to May, 2020 and sale proceeds of some of these securities/shares were
 converted to his personal use and an amount of Rs.68,18,464/- was
 transferred into his personal Axis Bank account. 17. Bail is strongly opposed by the State on the ground that the
 allegations are grave and serious and being economic offences, punishable
 upto life imprisonment, applicant is not deserving of being enlarged on bail.
 It is settled that gravity or seriousness of the offence cannot be a sole ground BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 11 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06
 to deny bail to an applicant. In Sanjay Chandra (supra), the Supreme Court
 observed that even where accused are charged with economic offences of
 huge magnitude, which if proved may jeopardise the economy of the
 country, the Courts cannot lose sight of the fact that when investigation is
 complete and Charge Sheet has been filed, presence in the custody may not
 be necessary and the apprehensions of the State that an accused may flee
 from justice can be allayed by imposing stringent conditions. Supreme Court
 also observed that detention in custody pending completion of trial could
 cause great hardship. Apart from the question of prevention being the object
 of refusal of bail, one must not lose sight of the fact that any imprisonment
 before conviction has a substantial punitive content and it would be
 improper for any Court to refuse bail as a mark of disapproval of former
 conduct whether the accused has been convicted for it or not. The principles
 that bail is the rule and jail is an exception as also that a man is presumed
 innocent till found guilty, were reiterated and restated. Relevant paragraphs
 of the judgment are as follows:- 18. In P. Chidambaram v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2020) 13
 SCC 337, the Supreme Court noted the fact that Charge Sheet had been filed
 against the Appellant and he was in custody for about 2 months. Appellant
 was not a flight risk and conditions could be imposed to ensure that there
 was no possibility of his absconding from trial. Elucidating on the well-
 settled principles on which the jurisdiction to grant bail has to be exercised,
 the Supreme Court enumerated the factors to be taken into consideration as
 follows:- [ Vide Prahlad Singh Bhati v. State (NCT of Delhi ), (2001) 4 SCC 280 : 19. In P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement , (2020) 13 SCC
 791, the Supreme Court held as under:- and in such circumstance while considering the application for bail in
 such matters, the Court will have to deal with the same, being sensitive to
 the nature of allegation made against the accused. One of the
 circumstances to consider the gravity of the offence is also the term of
 sentence that is prescribed for the offence the accused is alleged to have
 committed. Such consideration with regard to the gravity of offence is a
 factor which is in addition to the triple test or the tripod test that would be
 normally applied. In that regard what is also to be kept in perspective is
 that even if the allegation is one of grave economic offence, it is not a rule
 that bail should be denied in every case since there is no such bar created
 in the relevant enactment passed by the legislature nor does the bail
 jurisprudence provide so. Therefore, the underlining conclusion is that
 irrespective of the nature and gravity of charge, the precedent of another
 case alone will not be the basis for either grant or refusal of bail though it
 may have a bearing on principle. But ultimately the consideration will
 have to be on case-to-case basis on the facts involved therein and securing
 the presence of the accused to stand trial." 20. Historically, in the year 1978, Krishna Iyer, J., observed in Gudikanti
 Narasimhulu and Others v. Public Prosecutor, High Court of Andhra
 Pradesh, (1978) 1 SCC 240, that:- 21 that the curial power to negate it is a great trust exercisable, not
 casually but judicially, with lively concern for the cost to the individual
 and the community. To glamorize impressionistic orders as discretionary
 may, on occasions, make a litigative gamble decisive of a fundamental
 right. After all, personal liberty of an accused or convict is fundamental, BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 15 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06
 suffering lawful eclipse only in terms of "procedure established by law".
 The last four words of Article 21 are the life of that human right." 21. In Gurcharan Singh and Others v. State (Delhi Administration )
 (1978) 1 SCC 118, the Supreme Court observed:- 22. In Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v. Ashis Chatterjee and Another , (2010)
 14 SCC 496, the Supreme Court culled out the following factors which
 govern the grant of bail and ought to be kept in mind by the Courts while
 taking a decision to grant or reject bail:- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06 23. In Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and
 Another , (2022) 10 SCC 51, the Supreme Court observed that the law laid
 down in Sanjay Chandra (supra) and P. Chidambaram (supra) will
 govern the field even in the case of economic offences. The role of criminal
 Courts as guardian angels of liberty was highlighted and emphasised as
 follows:- 24. It has been time and again emphasised and highlighted by the Courts
 that the rationale and reasons for permitting judicial custody of an under trial
 are to: (a) prevent an accused from committing another offence; (b) to
 conduct investigation; (c) to prevent from tampering with evidence or
 threatening/intimidating witnesses; and (d) to ensure the presence of the
 accused to face trial and to ensure that the accused is available to receive
 sentence, if convicted. It is settled that at pre-conviction stage, there is a
 presumption of innocence and that detention cannot be punitive or
 preventive. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06 25. There is no doubt that the allegations against the applicant are serious.
 This Court is also conscious of the fact that for the offence under Section
 409 IPC, the punishment is for a term which may extend to 10 years or life
 imprisonment, but it cannot be overlooked that it is yet to be adjudicated
 whether applicant is guilty and/or what is his exact role in the alleged
 offences. In other words, it is yet to be ascertained whether ingredients of Section 409 / 120B are made out against the Applicant. It is also evident from
 the nature of the allegations and accusations that the evidence will mostly be
 documentary in nature and documents have been seized during investigation
 and Charge Sheet has been filed. In Sanjay Chandra (supra), the Supreme
 Court, looking at the accusations against the Appellants first observed that
 the charge of cheating and dishonesty inducing delivery of property and
 forgery for the purpose of cheating, using as genuine a forged document,
 was serious and in determining whether to grant bail, both seriousness of the
 charge and the severity of punishment should be taken into account. The
 Supreme Court thereafter noted that there were 17 accused persons and the
 documents relied upon by the prosecution were voluminous and therefore,
 the trial would take considerable time. It would, therefore, not be in the
 interest of justice that accused should be in jail for an indefinite period. The
 Supreme Court also observed that the accused were charged with economic
 offences of huge magnitude, which if proved would jeopardise the economy
 of the country but the Court cannot lose sight of the fact that investigation
 was complete and Charge Sheet was filed and therefore, presence of the
 accused in custody may not be necessary. 26. Applicant is in judicial custody since 12.10.2022. The Trial Court has
 framed charges under Sections 409 / 120B IPC vide order dated 09.04.2024 BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 18 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06
 and prosecution evidence is yet to commence. 81 witnesses have to be
 examined on behalf of the prosecution and thus conclusion of trial is likely
 to take considerable time. It is not the case of the State that the applicant is a
 flight risk or there are chances of his fleeing from justice. There is no
 evidence or even an allegation that applicant threatened the witnesses or
 interfered with or tampered with evidence during investigation. In Jayant
 Kumar Jain v. The State, Bail Appln. 2442/2020, decided on 14.09.2020,
 this Court granted bail to the Applicant on the ground that he had joined
 investigation on multiple occasions and it was not the case of the State that
 Applicant was a flight risk. The case arose out of a commercial transaction
 and was based on documents that were already seized and therefore, no
 further custody was required. In H.B. Chaturvedi v. C.B.I. , 2010 SCC
 OnLine Del 2155, this Court granted bail to the applicant inter alia on
 ground that there was nothing in the reply of CBI to suggest that there was a
 reasonable apprehension that applicant will flee from justice, if released on
 bail. Conduct of the applicant showed that he was joining investigation
 before his arrest and is an established businessman with roots in the society.
 Bail is not to be withheld as a punishment and even assuming that the
 accused is prima facie guilty of a grave offence, bail cannot be refused as an
 indirect method of punishing before the accused is convicted. This Court in Sunder Singh Bhati (supra); Sanjeeva Shukla v. State through EOW,
 2023 SCC OnLine Del 5326 and Ajay Kumar v. State NCT of Delhi, 2023
 SCC OnLine Del 7303, has granted bail to the applicants therein charged
 with similar offences, considering that conclusion of trial was likely to take
 a long time, evidence was primarily documentary and accused had been in
 custody for a long time. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06 27. In the facts and circumstances of this case, I am inclined to grant bail
 to the applicant. It is, therefore, directed that applicant shall be released on
 bail on his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.2 lacs with two
 sureties of the like amount, subject to the satisfaction of the Trial Court and
 further subject to the following conditions:- 28. It is made clear that nothing stated in this order shall tantamount to
 an expression on merits of the case. 29. Application stands disposed of. 30. Copy of the order be sent to the concerned Jail Superintendent for
 information and necessary compliance. JYOTI SINGH, J
 APRIL 26 , 2024/shivam BAIL APPLN. 3517/2023 Page 20 of 20 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 29/04/2024 at 23:33:06