1. This is a suit for decree of declaration for declaring that plaintiff does
not have liability to make payment of Rs.1,29,972/-and for permanent
injunction restraining the defendant, its representatives, authorised officials,
assignees etc. from seeking/enforcing any recovery of Rs. 1,19,975/- and
for a money decree of Rs. 28,246/- alongwith interest @ 12% from the date
of institution of suit till its actual payment in favour of plaintiff and against
defendant. The case of the plaintiff that he is an 80 yrs old senior citizen and
holds a savings bank account with the defendant bank. It is stated that he
also holds a credit card issued by the defendant bank. It is stated that on
22.11.2019, he received a text message on his mobile supposed to be from
PAYTM Company and informing him that his PAYTM KYC had been
suspended. It is stated that he received a call and the caller told him that the
plaintiff will have to re-KYC his PAYTM account. Plaintiff was told to
download an application by the name of "Quick Support" from the Google
Store. It is stated that plaintiff submits that he was under a bonafide belief
that the caller was a genuine employee of the PAYTM and accordingly he
downloaded the said application on his phone. The plaintiff submits that
after he downloaded the application, he was instructed to add Rs.10/- to his
PAYTM wallet. It is stated that since the caller was not seeking any
confidential information from him and the amount was also to the tune of
Rs.10/- only, he did not suspect anything and proceeded to follow the
instructions. It is stated that plaintiff did not share any confidential
information about his credit card or the banking information or any kind of
OTP with the caller. It is stated that soon after the call got disconnected, he
received numerous text messages on his mobile phone to the effect that his
credit card has been used for several transactions. It is stated that he had not
received any OTP for the said fraudulent transactions. It is submitted that
total five transactions were fraudulently done using his credit card but since
his credit card had exceeded its maximum limit, only four transactions got
paid. It is stated that his card was used to pay transactions of Rs.1,29,972/-.
Plaintiff claims that he immediately tried to contact the bank about the

CS No. 457/2020 Page no. 2 of 11
 credit card scam but the customer care numbers of the defendant bank were
not reachable. It is stated that on the next day i.e. on 23.11.2019, the
plaintiff sent an email to the defendant bank informing them about the
fraud. It is stated that he received an email from an employee of the
defendant and he was asked to verify the transactions done from his credit
card. It is stated that plaintiff sent a reply on the same day confirming that
the transactions were fraudulent but thereafter he did not receive any reply
from the bank. It is stated that plaintiff got a criminal complaint filed on
24.11.2019 and a FIR was also registered with PS Janakpuri on 25.11.2019.
Plaintiff claims that on 25.11.2019 he visited the credit card department at
Rajouri Garden and took a copy of his credit card statement. It is stated that
only three fraudulent transactions were mentioned in the credit card
statement but the fraudulent transaction of Rs. 9999/- was not mentioned in
the statement. It is submitted that when he received the credit card
statement for the month of December 2019, he found that a demand of Rs.
10,009/- was raised which included fraudulent transaction of Rs.9999. It is
submitted that he approached the branch manager of the defendant bank
and he was advised to pay the said amount of Rs. 9,999/- and fill a
Cardholder Dispute Form. It is stated that he was assured that the said
money would be refunded to him. It is stated that in April 2020 he received
another credit card statement from the defendant bank wherein the bank
had sought payment of Rs.1,19,975/- and had put the entire liability of the
fraud on the plaintiff. Plaintiff stated that there was no negligence on his
part and the said demand by the bank is unjust. It is stated that plaintiff
came to know later that the Fraud and Dispute Settlement Team of the
defendant bank had unilaterally decided the claim of the plaintiff on
18.12.2019 and he would have to pay the defrauded amount to defendant

CS No. 457/2020 Page no. 3 of 11
 bank. Plaintiff claimed that the defendant bank wrongfully started
deducting monthly sums of money from his savings bank account in order
to recover the unjust demand. It is stated that till now the bank has
deducted Rs.5999, Rs.6154 and Rs.6094 from his bank account. It is stated
that under the circular dated 07.07.2017 issued by the RBI and the policy of
the defendant bank namely "Customer Protection-Limiting Liability of
Customers in Unauthorised Electronic Banking Transactions", in cases of
unauthorized electronic banking transactions, there is zero liability of the
customer. Hence the present suit. 3. Defendant's Case
 Defendant filed its written statement wherein it is contended that the
the present suit be dismissed since the plaintiff has not made PAYTM
Company a party in this suit. It is submitted that the plaintiff is trying to
wriggle out of his financial liability towards the defendant bank by filing
the suit. It is stated that the fraud has been committed by some third
persons/alleged employees of PAYTM bank and the plaintiff does not have
any cause of action against the defendant. It is submitted that the plaintiff
had himself initiated the said alleged transactions by giving information
about his KYC to the fraudulent caller and he had disclosed his personal
details to the caller. It is submitted that in such a case, the plaintiff is solely
responsible for the transactions and the "Customer Protection-Limiting
Liability of Customers in Unauthorised Electronic Banking Transactions" 4. Issues
After completion of pleadings, vide order dated 30.07.2022, the following
issues were framed by my learned Predecessor for trial : CS No. 457/2020 Page no. 4 of 11
 i Whether the suit of plaintiff is liable to be dismissed for non-joinder
 of proper party/PAYTM? OPD
 ii Whether the plaintiff is entitled for decree of declaration as prayed in
 the plaint? OPP
 iii Whether the plaintiff is entitled to the decree of permanent
 injunction as prayed in the plaint? OPP
 iv Whether the plaintiff is entitled for money decree as prayed in the
 plaint? OPP
 v Relief 5. Plaintiff Evidence (i) Plaintiff was examined as PW-1, who in his affidavit by way of
evidence Ex.PW1/A reiterated on oath the contents of the plaint. He has
relied upon following documents:- d. The photocopy of criminal complaint dated 24.11.2019 is Mark C
 (the said document is mentioned as Ex.P-1/4 in the affidavit and later
 de-exhibited). e. Print out of FIR bearing no.447/2019 dated 25.11.2019 is Ex.PW1/5. (objected by ld.counsel for defendant being photocopy/mode of
 proof). (the said document is mentioned as Ex.P-1/6 in the affidavit and later
 de-exhibited). g. Print out of online statement of credit card for November 2019 is
 Ex.PW1/7. h. Photocopy of card holder dispute form dated 17.12.2019 is Mark E
 (the said document is mentioned as Ex.P-1/8 in the affidavit and later
 de-exhibited). i. Print out of online statement of credit card for April 2020 is
 Ex.PW1/9. (objected by ld.counsel for defendant being
 photocopy/mode of proof). j. Print out of report of Fraud and Dispute Settlement Team of the
 defendant bank is Ex.PW1/10. (objected by ld.counsel for defendant
 being photocopy/mode of proof). k. Print out of RBI circular dated 06.07.2017 is Ex.PW1/11.
l. Print out of Customer Protection Policy of Axis Bank is Ex.PW1/12. (objected by ld.counsel for defendant being photocopy/mode of
 proof). m. Certificate u/s 65B of Indian Evidence Act with regard to the print
 outs is Ex.PW1/13. (ii) HC Ravi from PS Janakpuri was examined as PW-2. He was a
summoned witness who brought the original FIR register containing FIR
No.0447/2019, u/s 420 IPC , PS Janakpuri, dated 25.11.2019 registered on
the complaint of plaintiff i.e. Ex.PW2/A (OSR). (iii) Sh Ashish Rai Miglani, Branch Manager, Axis Bank was examined
as PW-3. He was a summoned witness who brought the record i.e. account
statement pertaining to account No.914010023443188 of plaintiff i.e.

CS No. 457/2020 Page no. 6 of 11
 Ex.PW3/A. (iv) Plaintiff's evidence was closed on 27.05.2023 and the matter was
adjourned for defendant's evidence. 6. Defendant's Evidence (i) Sh Ashish Rai Miglani was examined as DW-1, who in his affidavit
by way of evidence Ex.DW1/A reiterated on oath the contents of the WS.
He has relied upon following documents: 7. Defendant evidence was closed on 26.10.2023. Final arguments were
addressed by Ld counsel for plaintiff and defendant. 8. I have gone through the judicial record. Now I shall give my issue-
wise findings on the following issues:- ii Whether the plaintiff is entitled for decree of declaration as prayed in
 the plaint? OPP
 iii Whether the plaintiff is entitled to the decree of permanent
 injunction as prayed in the plaint? OPP
 iv Whether the plaintiff is entitled for money decree as prayed in the
 plaint? OPP

a. Issue no. (i)

 i Whether the suit of plaintiff is liable to be dismissed for non-joinder
 of proper party/PAYTM? OPD
 The onus to prove issue no. (i) was upon defendant. In order to
discharge his onus defendant got examined DW-1. During entire course of
evidence no where came on record that the disputed amount was forwarded
to beneficiaries from the PAYTM account whereas it is the admitted fact
on the part of defendant also that the amount of Rs. 1,29,972/- was
forwarded to the beneficiaries from the credit card issued by the defendant.
The defendant failed to show any role of PAYTM company in the process
of transferring the disputed amount from the credit card of defendant bank
to the beneficiaries of the amount. In view of above, the defendant has
failed to discharge his onus to prove issue no. (i). Accordingly, issue no. (i)
is decided against defendant and in favour of plaintiff. b. Issue no. (ii) and (iii)
 ii Whether the plaintiff is entitled for decree of declaration as prayed in
 the plaint? OPP
 iii Whether the plaintiff is entitled to the decree of permanent
 injunction as prayed in the plaint? OPP

CS No. 457/2020 Page no. 8 of 11
 Issue no. (ii) and (iii) are interconnected so taken up together. During
course of evidence, plaintiff got examined himself as PW-1 and brought on
record credit card as Mark B which is also admitted there to be in the
record of credit card department of defendant. PW-1 deposed that the
operation of business and affairs of the defendant are regulated by RBI.
PW-1 also further deposed that the plaintiff not shared any confidential
information about plaintiff's credit card or banking operation or OTP
whereas transactions were done by using credit card of plaintiff and not the
PAYTM wallet. PW-1 also deposed that on receiving the message he
immediately declined the request by sending his request at said no. i.e.
5676782 and also called the defendant at the toll free no. at 18605005555
but not got connected and other toll free no. of defendant i.e. 022-6224
7800 and 18604195555 were not in service. PW-1 further deposed that on
22.11.2019 plaintiff sent the email to credit card department of defendant
regarding reverting the fraudulent transaction but neither the transactions
were reverted nor any reply was given by defendant to the mail of plaintiff.
Plaintiff also proved the FIR no. 447/2019 dated 25.11.2019 PS Janakpuri
as Ex. PW-1/5. PW-1 also gave specific reply in his cross examination that
he had not told his credit card no. to the person talking at phone. PW-1
also disclosed in his affidavit that on 25.11.2019 the plaintiff visited the
credit card department of defendant situated at Rajouri Garden Branch and
took a copy of statement of his credit card no. 5305620203870510 from
them and also filled the card holder dispute form. During cross examination
the defendant failed to bring on record that the transaction was not done
from the credit card of plaintiff. The defendant also failed to bring on
record that the transaction from the card of plaintiff were suspicious
transaction and for suspicious transactions they have not sent any e-mail to

CS No. 457/2020 Page no. 9 of 11
 the plaintiff. The defendant also admitted the Customer Dispute Form to
be filled by plaintiff and also the email sent to the plaintiff for suspicious
transaction from the credit card of plaintiff. The above depositions shows
that the plaintiff was too vigilant regarding his illegal transactions that he
made the timely complaint to Credit Card department of defendant as well
as police station and also has not shared any OTP with anybody and also
not made the transaction through PAYTM whereas the transactions were
made through credit card issued by defendant bank. In view of above, the plaintiff successfully discharged his onus to
prove issue no. (ii) and (iii). Issue no. (ii) and (iii) are decided in favour
of plaintiff and against the defendant thereby plaintiff does not have
any liability towards the defendant for payment of Rs. 1,29,972/-
(Rupees One Lakh Twenty Nine Thousand Nine Hundred and Seventy
Two) and therefore, defendant is restrained from recovering the
amount of Rs. 1,19,975/-. (Rupees One Lakh Nineteen Thousand Nine
Hundred and Seventy Five only). c. Issue no. (iv)
 iv Whether the plaintiff is entitled for money decree as prayed in the
 plaint? OPP
 The onus to prove issue no. (iv) was upon the plaintiff. To discharge
his onus the plaintiff got himself examined as PW-1. PW-1 successfully
brought on record that he gave a call two toll free numbers of defendant
bank but the two toll free numbers were not in service and therefore, the
plaintiff also visited to the defendant bank and placed his objection to the
illegal transaction vide Customer Dispute Form within the stipulated time
of 3 days and also sent his grievance through email to the Credit Card

CS No. 457/2020 Page no. 10 of 11
 department of defendant but the transactions from credit card of defendant
were not reverted. Accordingly, the plaintiff has done all his duties as per
the guidelines issued by RBI. Thus, plaintiff has discharged his onus to
prove issue no. (iv). Issue no (iv) is decided in favour of plaintiff and
against defendant. Plaintiff is entitled to recovery of Rs.28,246/-
(Rupees Twenty Eight Thousand Two Hundred and Forty Six) from
the defendant. 9. Relief
 In view of my aforesaid findings, the suit of the plaintiff is decreed.
Plaintiff has successfully proved his entitlement for recovery of amount of
Rs.28,246/- (Rupees Twenty Eight Thousand Two Hundred and Forty
Six) alongwith interest @ 12% from the date of filing of the suit till its
realization. No order as to cost of suit. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. File be consigned to Record Room after due compliance.