% 06.02.2024
 CM APPL. 7178/2024 (for Exemption) 1. Exemption allowed, subject to just exceptions. 2. Application is disposed of. W.P.(C) 1730/2024 & CM APPL. 7177/2024 3. At the outset, this Court notes that in the memo of parties, the
 respondents have been numbered incorrectly. Accordingly, the petitioner is
 directed to file a fresh amended memo of parties within a period of two

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 22:29:48
 days. 4. The present petition has been filed seeking quashing and setting aside
 of the proceedings undertaken by the respondent for declaring the account of
 M/s Educomp Solution Limited ("ESL") as fraud including quashing of the
 show cause notices dated 13th November, 2023 issued by respondent no. 1-
 State Bank of India ("SBI"), 13th October, 2023 issued by respondent no. 2-
 Canara Bank, 28th December, 2023 issued by respondent no. 3-Central Bank
 of India and 2nd September, 2023 issued by respondent no. 4-ICICI Bank. 5. Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner submits that ESL
 was admitted into Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process ("CIRP") under
 the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 ("IBC") vide
 order dated 30th May, 2017 passed by the National Company Law Tribunal
 ("NCLT"). It is submitted that the CIRP, Committee of Creditors ("COC")
 included the respondent. Further, a Resolution Plan has been submitted and
 has also been approved by the NCLT vide its judgment dated 09th October,
 2023. 6. It is further submitted by learned senior counsel for the petitioner that
 the impugned Show Cause Notices issued by the respondent banks are
 arbitrary and without any justification. It is the case of the petitioner that
 SBI and other lenders of the ESL have already waived of all the defaults and
 irregularities of ESL, if any, as on the date of execution of Master
 Restructuring Agreement ("MRA") dated 25th March, 2014. Learned senior
 counsel for the petitioner submits that neither complete documents have
 been provided to the petitioner, nor any personal hearing has been granted
 by the respondent banks pursuant to issuance of the aforesaid Show Cause
 Notices. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 22:29:48 7. Attention of this Court has been drawn to the reply dated 7 th
 December, 2023 written by the petitioner to SBI, wherein there is a specific
 request by the petitioner for supplying the requisite documents. The relevant
 Paragraphs of the letter dated 7th December, 2023 written by the petitioner to
 SBI reads as under: 8. Attention of this Court has also been drawn to the letter dated 27 th
 November, 2023 written by the petitioner to Canara Bank, wherein again a
 similar prayer has been made to the bank for providing requisite documents.
 Relevant Paragraphs of the letter dated 27th November, 2023 written by the
 petitioner to Canara Bank reads as under: 9. Learned senior counsel further draws the attention of this Court to the
 letter dated 13th January, 2024 written by the petitioner to the Central Bank
 of India, relevant Paragraphs of which reads as under: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 22:29:48 10. Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner also relies upon
 the letter dated 21st September, 2023 written by the petitioner to ICICI Bank
 Limited, wherein it has stated as follows: 11. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submits that despite the
 aforesaid letters written by the petitioner, no response has been received
 from the respondent-banks. Further, no documents have been provided to
 the petitioner. 12. He further submits that the earlier declaration of „fraud‟ of the ESL‟s
 accounts had been set aside by this Court in W.P.(C) 2424/2020 vide order
 dated 12th May, 2023. He submits that the aforesaid order was passed in
 favour of the petitioner, with clear directions to the respondent banks to
 provide the requisite documents to the petitioner in terms of the judgment of
 the Supreme Court in the Case of State Bank of India And Others Versus
 Rajesh Agarwal And Others, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 342. 13. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner further submits that after a
 detailed transaction audit report, the Resolution Professional, has on
 affidavit dated 8th October, 2018 submitted before the NCLT that there is no
 transaction of fraudulent nature and preferential nature in the company. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 22:29:48
 Thus, he submits that there is a categorical report submitted to the NCLT
 itself showing that no transaction in the nature of fraudulent character has
 been made by the petitioner company. 14. Attention of this Court is also drawn to the affidavit submitted by the
 Resolution Professional before the NCLT, wherein it has been stated as
 under: xxx xxx xxx" 15. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has also relied upon Section
 45 and Section 66 of the IBC to bring home the point that there is a
 categorical report submitted by the Resolution Professional before the
 NCLT, which stands accepted by the respondent-banks, that there have been
 no fraudulent transactions in the account of ESL. 16. Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner further relies upon
 Clause 2.2 of the terms of the Restructured Loans and submits that once the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 22:29:49
 defaults have been waived by the banks, there is no question of proceeding
 against the petitioner with respect to any default. 17. He also refers to Clause 8.9.4 of the Master Circular to submit that a
 unified Show Cause Notice ought to have been issued by the respondent-
 banks, as the declaration of „fraud‟ has to be done by the majority of the
 consortium lenders. He, therefore, submits that individual Show Cause
 Notices ought not to have been issued to the petitioner. 18. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for respondent no. 1-SBI
 submits that the letter written by the petitioner to the SBI is prior to the
 issuance of Show Cause Notice issued by the SBI. He further submits that
 no particular documents have been specified by the petitioner, which are
 required by the petitioner. Learned counsel for the respondent further
 submits that the Forensic Audit Report has already been provided to the
 petitioner, which has also been attached along with the present writ petition. 19. Learned counsel appearing for respondent-SBI further submits that a
 collective decision is to be taken by the consortium of banks only at the time
 of declaration of an account as „fraud‟. However, at the time of issuance of
 Show Cause Notices, individual Show Cause Notices are issued by the
 respective banks. 20. He further submits that the present writ petition in the present form is
 not maintainable as Show Cause Notices of different banks have been
 clubbed together. 21. Responding to the submissions made on behalf of respondent-SBI,
 learned senior counsel for the petitioner submits that though the Forensic
 Audit Report has been provided, however, the relevant underlying
 documents have not been provided to the petitioner. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 22:29:49 22. He further submits that in terms of the various judgments passed by
 the Supreme Court, Show Cause Notice has to be accompanied by the
 requisite documents, in the absence of which, the petitioner would not be
 able to submit an effective reply. He further submits that an opportunity of
 hearing has also not been granted to the petitioner. 23. Having heard learned counsel for parties, this Court is of the view that
 since the main issue raised by the petitioner in the present case is with
 respect to non-supply of documents, it is imperative that the requisite
 documents are provided to the petitioner so that an effective reply can be
 given by him. 24. This Court notes that the Supreme Court in the case of Rajesh
 Agarwal (supra) has categorically stated that all the documents and
 evidence which are collected against a party, ought to be provided to such
 party so as to provide an opportunity to explain the evidence against it.
 Reference may be made to paragraph -71 of the aforesaid judgment, which
 reads as under: 25. Accordingly, issue notice to the respondents. Notice is accepted by
 learned counsel appearing for respondent no. 1-State Bank of India,
 respondent no. 3-Central Bank of India and respondent no 4-ICICI Bank.
 Let notice be issued to the respondent no. 2- Canara Bank. 26. Considering the submissions made by learned Senior Counsel for the
 petitioner, it is directed that the petitioner would approach the respondent-
 banks within three days from today, clearly specifying the documents which
 are required by the petitioner. Upon receipt of the list of documents from the
 petitioner, the respondent-banks shall supply the requisite documents to the
 petitioner, which the petitioner is entitled to, in accordance with law, within
 a period of ten days. 27. Consequently, till the next date of hearing, status quo shall be
 maintained with respect to proceedings that may be pending on the basis of
 the respective Show Cause Notices issued by the respondent- banks. 28. Re-notify on 23rd February, 2024, on top of board. MINI PUSHKARNA, J
 FEBRUARY 6, 2024
 ak

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 22:29:49