Present: Sh. Anil Nitin, Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff. Defendant already ex-parte. 1. The suit in hand has been filed by the plaintiff seeking
mandatory injunction against the defendant bank. 2. Briefly, the facts as per the plaint are that the plaintiff
runs a business in the name and style of M/s. Mangal Paraspay
Services Pvt. Ltd. having its office at B-1, Block-J, Khasra no. 101, 3-
1/2 Pusta, Kartar Nagar, Near Nala Main Road and he is its director.
That the plaintiff took the franchisee from the Paytm Company and he
used to do work of transaction of money of its retailers by way of
using the API App. 3. That the plaintiff is maintaining his bank account
bearing no. 136005000980 with the defendant bank i.e. ICICI Bank,
Branch at Main Wazirabad Road, Bhajanpura, Delhi. 4. That recently the plaintiff came to know that the
defendant bank has seized his aforesaid Current Bank Account
between 28th and 30th March, 2021. That upon inquiry, the bank
officials of the defendant bank stated that the said bank account has
been seized by Karnataka Police as there was some fraud money
transaction made through some Vaishnavi Communication (Ujala
Gupta). That the plaintiff told the defendant's officials that he does not
know about any illegal transaction and has not committed any fraud,
but the officials of the defendant bank did not give any heed to
plaintiff's repeated requests and so, a letter dated 13.07.2021 was sent
by plaintiff to defendant bank, requesting them to consider his matter
and immediately defreeze his aforesaid current bank account but to no
avail. 5. That since the aforesaid bank account of the plaintiff is
seized by the defendant bank, plaintiff is facing a lot of difficulty in CS No. 284/21 Manoj Kumar Vs. ICICI Bank Page 2 of 6 running his aforesaid business as he is having 25-30
customers/retailers, who often take service of plaintiff's company and
he sends their money through online transaction by way of his
aforesaid APP/Franchisee. That the plaintiff is facing loss of Rs.
10,000/- per day and he is the sole bread winner of his family, who has
no other source of income. 6. That plaintiff had also moved a complaint dated
17.07.2021 to the Commissioner of Police, Delhi; Cyber Cell, North-
East Delhi; DCP, North-East Delhi as well as SHO, PS-New
Usmanpur, but the bank account of the plaintiff has not been de-
freezed till date. 7. Hence, the suit in hand has been filed and prayer has
been made to pass a decree for mandatory injunction, thereby giving
direction to the defendant bank to open/restore/defreeze the bank
account of the plaintiff i.e. Current Bank A/c no. 136005000980,
ICICI Bank, Branch at Main Wazirabad Road, Bhajanpura, Delhi. 8. Summons was served upon the defendant bank
whereupon its Deputy Branch Manager had appeared before the Court
on 01.09.2021 and then on 10.09.2021. However on the next date of
hearing none appeared on behalf of the defendant bank therefore vide
order dated 24.09.2021, the defendant bank was proceeded against ex-
parte. 9. Thereafter, matter was fixed for ex-parte plaintiff's
evidence. Plaintiff examined himself as PW1, who tendered his ex-
parte evidence by way of affidavit Ex.PW1/A and relied upon CS No. 284/21 Manoj Kumar Vs. ICICI Bank Page 3 of 6 documents i.e.: 10. Thereafter, plaintiff bank closed its ex-parte evidence
and final arguments were heard from Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff . 11. I have heard the arguments and perused the record. 12. In the case in hand, relief sought by the plaintiff is that
the defendant bank be directed to defreeze his bank account.
Pertinently, plaintiff has stated in his plaint itself that he had made an
inquiry from the defendant bank whereupon he was told that his bank
account has been freezed by the Karnataka Police since some fraud
transaction has been done. On inquiry from Ld. Counsel for the
plaintiff, it has been contended that the plaintiff was told by the
defendant bank that it had seized the bank account at the instance of CS No. 284/21 Manoj Kumar Vs. ICICI Bank Page 4 of 6 Karnataka Police, but since it is the defendant bank who had seized
the account of the plaintiff, therefore, Karnataka Police was not
required to be made a party to this suit. However, this Court is of the
view that, in these circumstances, Karnataka Police was a necessary
party and plaintiff was required to implead it as a party to the suit in
hand as no relief can be granted without the same being a party to this
suti. Hence, in view of provisio to Rule 9 of Order 1 of CPC , the suit
of the plaintiff is liable to fail. Further, it was rather incumbent upon
the plaintiff to obtain the details of the FIR whereunder the Karnataka
Police has allegedly seized his account and then take appropriate steps
before the competent authority in Karantaka, but plaintiff has failed to
do so. 13. Moreover, perusal of complaint 'Mark C' reveals that the
same have been addressed by the plaintiff to the Delhi Police and not
to Karnataka Police. Plaintiff is completely silent on the point as to
whether he had approached the Karnataka Police for defreezing his
account or not. 14. Although the defendant bank is ex-parte in this case but
then, it is a settled law that plaintiff's case has to stand on its own legs.
Plaintiff has to prove his own case by adducing oral and/or
documentary evidence and proving the same. However, in the case in
hand, plaintiff has not even impleaded the police authority concerned
as a party to this suit, on whose direction his bank account has been
freezed and this fact was well in the knowledge of plaintiff before
filing of the suit in hand. Thus, this Court is of the view that plaintiff
has failed to stand on his case since and even failed to prove his
allegations and claims. 15. Hence, in view of the aforesaid discussion, the suit is
hereby dismissed with costs and not relief can be granted to him as
prayed for. 16. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly and file be
consigned to the Record Room, after due compliance.