S.B. SINHA, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. These appeals arising out of a common judgment and order dated

17.07.2007 passed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad were

taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common

judgment. 3. Accused No. 4 - S.V.L. Murthy was the Branch Manager of Begum

Bazar Branch of State Bank of India (for short, "SBI"). Accused No. 1 -

Venugopal Loya was proprietor of some business concerns, namely, M/s

Shobhachand Shivijiram ("SS"), M/s Sreeji Industries ("SI") and M/s

Harikrishan Roopchand ("HR"). Whereas SS and HR used to deal in

wholesale trade in grains and spices, SI was a plastic manufacturing concern.

Accused No. 2 - Gopaldas Dharak was a partner of M/s Gayatri Traders 3 ("GT"). He used to operate current account in the same Branch. Accused

No. 3 - Radheshyam Dharak, partner of GT, an Accountant working in the

firms of Accused No.1. Accused No. 5 - P. Jayakumar was the Accountant

in the Begam Bazar Branch of the State Bank of India. Accused No. 6 - Y.

Narahari Murthy was the Charge Branch Manager. 4. SS was established in the year 1860. It opened current account with

Begum Bazar Branch of the State Bank of India on or about 5.12.1979.

Accused No. 1 opened Current Account with SBI on behalf of SI in his

capacity as a Managing Partner on or about 10.5.1988. He was granted

cheque discounting facility. For the said purpose, he deposited his title

deeds on or about 6.9.1988 5. Srinivasa Rao (P.W. 22), the then Branch Manager of the SBI by a

letter dated 10.1.1989 addressed to the Regional Manager sought for his

advice as to whether levy of 5 paise per thousand per day instead of 10 paise

as commission should be relaxed. Indisputably, collateral securities were

furnished by the appellants for availing cheque discounting facility. 6. Accused No. 4 - S.V.L. Murthy, however, stopped this discounting

facility with SS. inter alia on the premise that three bills purchased by the

Bank and sent to Salem Branch for collection had been returned unpaid. So

far as the bill limit due in account of SS was concerned, the same stood at 4 Rs.20,18,240/- out of which Accused No. 1 is said to have made payment of

Rs.5,00,314/- for returned bills with interest within 2 hrs. It is stated that on

or about 7.4.1989, a meeting was held at the residence of the Regional

Manager (P.W. 20 - V. Ramamurthy). Accused No. 1 is alleged to have

complained that Accused No. 4 had stopped discounting of cheques to him

whereupon Regional Manager (P.W. 20) allegedly instructed Accused No. 4

to continue the practice of discounting cheques to Accused No. 1 on the

premise that he was a reputed customer of the Bank. Pursuant thereto, the

discounting facility was made available with Accused No.1 upon obtaining

sufficient collateral security, i.e., title deeds of moveable and immoveable

properties of Accused No.1 worth Rs.1.09 lacs. 7. The Bank allegedly sanctioned discounting facility to the extent of

Rs.30 lacs on the basis of collateral securities furnished on or about

15.4.1989. However, ten cheques aggregating to Rs.29,86,219/- were

discounted and sent for clearing by Bank, which were returned unpaid from

clearing house. Appellants contended that they were sent for clearing

without proper stamping/endorsement; they did not reach drawer bank at all.

Indisputably, however, the Regional Office issued instructions for stopping

cheque discounting facility without notice. It is stated that the appellants

paid a sum of Rs.29,90,941/-, which covered the discounting amount

together with interest on or about 25.4.1989. The Bank seized office-cum- 5 godown and stocks of SS at about 11.45 a.m. on the same day. On or about

26.4.1989, 26 account payee cheques were presented in various banks across

the counter which should have been presented through clearing. However,

Rs.1,28,63,441/- was said to have remained outstanding. 8. Accused No. 1 is stated to have made payment of Rs.38,84,000/-

through pay order on or about 27.4.1989. On the said date, liability is said

to have stood at Rs.89,79,441/-. Indisputably, Accused No. 4 proceeded on leave from 19.4.1989 and

handed over the charge of his office to Mr. Y. Narahari Murthy (Accused

No. 6). Accused No. 1 furthermore applied for grant of overdraft facility to

the limit of Rs.90 lacs against collateral security. It was granted. Sufficient

securities were also furnished. The Regional Manager was informed by the

Branch that Accused No. 1 has promised to pay a sum of Rs.15 lacs within a

week. However, a suit was filed in the court of 4th Additional Judge, City

Civil Court at Hyderabad being CSOS No. 827 of 1989 for recovery of a

sum of Rs.90,19,789.11 with interest on or about 10.5.1989. On or about

10.5.1989, City Civil Court passed interim direction ordering attachment

before judgment. 9. On 21.6.1989, a criminal complaint was lodged by the Bank before

the III Metropolitan Magistrate at Hyderabad under Sections 120B , 420 , 467 , 471 of Indian Penal Code ( IPC ) and under Section 138 of the

Negotiable Instrument Act inter alia alleging that cheques issued to SI were

fraudulently discounted and amounts were drawn between 14.2.1989 and

1.5.1989. It is not in dispute that in the said complaint no allegation was made

against the officers of the Bank. On or about 17.7.1989, the Metropolitan

Magistrate directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to investigate

into the case pursuant whereto a First Information Report was lodged under Sections 120B , 420 of IPC read with Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of

Corruption Act on or about 5.9.1989. 10. We may, however, place on record that P.W. 22 - Srinivasa Rao took

over charge as Branch Manager on the oral instructions of P.W. 20 - V.

Ramamurthy, on or about 28.4.1989. Indisputably, disciplinary proceedings were initiated against the

Accused No. 4, Accused No. 5 as also P.W. 20. In the said disciplinary proceedings, they were placed under

suspension. They were, however, reinstated in service. Whereas P.W. 20 7 was censured, Accused No. 4 was inflicted with a punishment of stoppage of

five increments. Some minor punishments was also imposed on the

Accused No. 5. Indisputably, a vigilance enquiry was conducted on or about

26.4.1989 at Begum Bazaar Branch of the SBI wherein a report dated

18.1.1990 was submitted indicating that there has been a technical violation

on the part of the Bank Officer, inter alia, arriving at the following

conclusions: Both his predecessor as also successor in office were found guilty of

some negligence on their part. Some laxity on the part of office of the

Controlling Authority was also pointed out. 12. A charge sheet was filed on or about 8.9.1993 under Sections 120B , 420 IPC read with Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act,

1988 alleging inter alia that there was criminal conspiracy between the

accused persons during 1988-89 to cheat SBI. 13. On or about 7.2.1994, learned Special Judge for CBI Cases,

Hyderabad framed charges against the accused persons under Sections

120B , 420 IPC read with Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act.

However, Accused Nos. 4 to 6 were additionally charged with Section

13(1)(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. 14. Before the learned Special Judge, a large number of witnesses were

examined. They included P.W. 1 - Sh. R. Vijay Kumar, Branch Manager,

State Bank of India, Karimnagar Branch, who was holding the post of

Manager, in the Begum Bazaar of the State Bank of India, Hyderabad from

31.8.1987 to 9.8.1988, i.e., prior to Accused No.4. P.W. 19 - S.V.

Panchapakesan, Dy. General Manager, SBI Capital Market Bombay, who 9 worked as Administrative Officer Advances in the Regional Office and P.W.

20 - V. Ramamurthy, the Additional Manager-cum-Deputy General

Manager of the Regional Offices. 15. Learned Special Judge for CBI Cases, Hyderabad by reason of

judgment and order 28.8.1998, held: He convicted and sentenced the accused persons as under: 10 16. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the aforesaid judgment,

appellants preferred appeals. The High Court by reason of the impugned judgment in dismissing

the appeals of the appellant, held: However, accused No. 6 was acquitted. 17. Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of

Accused Nos. 1 to 3 would contend: iii. Admittedly, the Bank had not suffered any financial loss

 and in fact having received interest to the extent of Rs.44

 lakhs from the appellants, the impugned judgment

 holding that they had entered into a criminal conspiracy

 for cheating the Bank must be held to be wholly

 untenable. 18. Mr. Ravindra Shrivastava, learned Senior Counsel appearing on

behalf of Accused No.4 would urge: 19. Mr. K.V. Mohan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Accused

No. 5 would urge: 20. Mr. B. Datta, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on

behalf of CBI, on the other hand, would submit: 21. We have noticed hereinbefore the charges leveled against the

appellants. So far as the principal accused, namely, Accused Nos. 1 to 3 are

concerned, they having not been charged for entering into a criminal

conspiracy with the Bank officials for commission of offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act , it was necessary only to see as to whether a

case of cheating has been made out. The fact that Accused No. 1 had a long standing business relationship

with the Bank is not in dispute. The Officers of the Bank particularly P.W.

2, P.W.19 and P.W.20 in their deposition clearly stated that the banking

practice allows grant of such discounting facility. In fact, the Reserve Bank

of India Circular whereupon reliance has been placed by the courts below

clearly points out existence of such a practice. The Reserve Bank of India,

however, laid down certain guidelines with a view to safeguarding the

interest of the Bank. It is also not in dispute that for the said purpose, a Circular has also

been issued. The proposal of the Branch to grant such discounting facility to

Accused Nos. 1 to 3 had not been accepted in its entirety. An ad hoc limit of

Rs.35 lakhs has been fixed. P.W. 1 - R. Vijaykumar, in his evidence categorically admitted that

the bill discounting facility had started during his tenure as Branch Manager.

It is, furthermore, accepted that said facility was extended to Accused Nos. 1

to 3 having regard to the business potentiality they had. He furthermore

accepted that the weekly statements used to be prepared and placed before

the higher authorities who had also not objected to grant thereof. The said

witness, in fact, in his deposition stated that the Regional Manager wanted

Accused No.1 to carry on all his business only through this branch. In his

cross- examination on behalf of A1 to A3, he stated: He in his cross-examination on behalf of A4 to A6 stated: P.W. 19 - R.V. Panchapakesan - who worked as an Administrative

Officer (Advances) in the Regional Office, in his deposition, stated as under: He, in his cross-examination by A4 to A6, stated: From the aforementioned statements, it is evident that all transactions

were being carried on in a transparent manner having regard to the prevalent

practice. In fact, as noticed hereinbefore, Shri Vijay Kumar not only started

granting the said facility to the principal accused, some amount of laxity on

his part was also found. P.W. 20 - V. Ramamurthy in his deposition, stated: The said witness accepted that he used to receive oral instructions

from the A.O.

 P.W.22 - S. Srinivas Rao in his cross examination stated as under: Ingredients of Section 409 of IPC read as under : Section 415 of the Indian Penal Code defines cheating as under : An offence of cheating cannot be said to have been made out unless

the following ingredients are satisfied : For the purpose of constituting an offence of cheating, the

complainant is required to show that the accused had fraudulent or dishonest

intention at the time of making promise or representation. Even in a case

where allegations are made in regard to failure on the part of the accused to

keep his promise, in absence of a culpable intention at the time of making

initial promise being absent, no offence under Section 420 of the Indian

Penal Code can be said to have been made out. We may reiterate that one of the ingredients of cheating as defined in Section 415 of the Indian Penal Code is existence of an intention of making

initial promise or existence thereof from the very beginning of formation of

contract. In Hira Lal Hari Lal Bhagwati v. CBI [(2003) 5 SCC 257], this Court

held : [See also Indian Oil Corporation v. NEPC India Ltd. & Ors. [(2006) 6

SCC 736]

 In Vir Prakash Sharma v. Anil Kumar Agarwal [(2007) 7 SCC 373],

noticing, inter alia, the aforementioned decisions, this Court held: No act of inducement on the part of the appellant
 has been alleged by the respondent. No allegation
 has been made that he had an intention to cheat the
 respondent from the very inception. 14. What has been alleged in the complaint
 petition as also the statement of the complainant
 and his witnesses relate to his subsequent conduct.
 The date when such statements were allegedly
 made by the appellant had not been disclosed by 33 the witnesses of the complainant. It is really absurd
 to opine that any such statement would be made by
 the appellant before all of them at the same time
 and that too in his own district. They, thus, appear
 to be wholly unnatural. 15. In law, only because he had issued cheques
 which were dishonoured, the same by itself would
 not mean that he had cheated the complainant. Assuming that such a statement had been made,
 the same, in our opinion, does not exhibit that
 there had been any intention on the part of the
 appellant herein to commit an offence under
 Section 417 of the Penal Code." The said principle has been reiterated in All Carogo Movers (I) Pvt.

Ltd. v. Dhanesh Badarmal Jain & Anr. [2007 (12) SCALE 391], stating: In R. Kalyani v. Janak C. Mehta & Ors. [2008 (14) SCALE 85], this

Court held: (See also Sharon Michael & ors. vs. State of Tamil Nadu & Anr.

[2009 (1) SCALE 627] 22. It may be that there had been certain procedural irregularities in the

transaction. However, sufficient evidence is available on record to show that the

Officers had done so for the purpose of promoting the business of the Bank.

In relation whereto or in respect whereof, initiatives had been taken by

P.Ws. 19 and 20. It is furthermore not denied or disputed that after the

cheque discounting facility was stopped in April, 1989 by Accused No. 4,

there has been a meeting at the residence of P.W. 20. In his deposition, the

said witness categorically admitted that the said meeting was arranged at the

instance of Accsued No. 1. It is incomprehensible that a meeting has been 35 arranged at his residence on the day he was on leave at the instance of

Accused No.1. He must have developed grievance against the Accused No.

4 as regards the stoppage of the said facility. If immediately thereafter the

said facility had been restored by the Accused No. 4, a stand taken by him

that it was done under the oral instructions of the higher authorities appears

to be plausible. 23. The prosecution apart from the fact that it had utterly failed to bring

on record any evidence of conspiracy must also be held to have failed to

bring on record any evidence of wrongful gain so as to attract the provisions

of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 or otherwise. 24. The entire argument of Mr. B. Datta, learned Additional Solicitor

General as also the findings arrived at by the learned Special Judge as also

the High Court proved the ingredients of offence under Section 409 of the

IPC. The accused persons, however, have not been charged for commission

of the said offence. Conspiracy by and between the Bank officials and the

Accused Nos. 1 to 3 has been stated to be for commission of the offence of

cheating for the purpose of arriving at a finding that there has been a

conspiracy so as to cheat the Bank. It was necessary for the prosecution to

establish that there had been a meeting of mind at the time when the facility

had been granted. Such meeting of mind on the part of the accused persons

has not been proved. Furthermore, the prosecution case even if given face 36 value and taken to be correct in its entirety does not lead to a finding that

even Accused Nos. 1 to 3 had any wrongful intention at the time when the

contract was initiated. 25. We do not mean to suggest that in the matter of operating the account,

no offence might have been committed by them. The offence, if any, it will

be bear repetition to state, was committed under Section 409 of the IPC. 26. The learned Special Judge as also the High court unfortunately

proceeded on the basis that the cheque discounting facility could under no

circumstances be made available to them. 27. We do not think that, that was a correct approach. The RBI guidelines

categorically show that it was not a wrong practice. It is one thing to say

that there has been an abuse of a prevalent banking practice for the purpose

of causing wrongful loss to the Bank and causing wrongful gain to others

but it is another thing to say that by reason thereof, the ingredients of

cheating are attracted. 28. We have noticed hereinbefore that learned Additional Solicitor

General merely took us through the judgment of the learned Special Judge as

also the High court. His entire contention revolved around the commission

of criminal breach of trust. Unfortunately, they have not been charged

therewith. It would bear repetition to state that accused persons have not 37 been charged under Section 409 of the IPC; even the Accused Nos. 1 to 3

have not been charged for entering into a conspiracy with Accused Nos. 4, 5

and 6 in respect of commission of offences under the Prevention of

Corruption Act . 29. It is in the aforementioned situation, we are of the opinion that the

judgment of conviction and sentence cannot be upheld. So far as the

submission of learned Additional Solicitor General that this Court, having

regard to the concurrent findings of fact as regards the commission of

offence arrived at by the learned Special Judge as also the High Court,

should not exercise its discretionary jurisdiction under Article 136 of the

Constitution of India is concerned, we do not find any substance therein.

Appellants have been charged under wrong provisions. Proper charges have

not been framed against them. 30. In Lala Ram & Ors. vs. State of U.P. (1990) 2 SCC 113, whereupon

strong reliance has been placed by the learned Additional Solicitor General,

this Court noticing various decisions opined that when there are various

infirmities, the Supreme Court can interfere. It is, therefore, a case which comes within the purview of the dicta

laid down therein. It is significant to notice that in that case itself this Court 38 keeping in view the findings arrived at therein allowed the appeal preferred

by the accused persons and set aside the judgment of conviction. It is one thing to say that ordinarily a concurrent finding of fact shall

not be interfered with by this Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India but it is another thing to say that

despite opining that accused are entitled to acquittal, a judgment of

conviction passed against them should be upheld. In fact, the jurisdiction of

this Court must be exercised wherever it is required to do so for securing the

ends of justice and to avoid injustice. 31. The upshot of our discussions is:- (c) Accused No. 4 had taken care of having adequate security to ensure

 that the bank does not suffer any loss, the gain if any was caused to

 the Bank. (d) Appellants acted on instructions by the higher authority. (e) The prosecution evidence does not establish any conspiracy on their

 part vis-`-vis Accused Nos. 1, 2 and 3. 32. For the aforementioned reasons, the impugned judgment and order of

the High Court, being unsustainable, is set aside. The appeals are allowed.

Appellants are are on bail. Their bail bonds shall stand discharged. .....................................J.
 [S.B. Sinha]

 .....................................J.
 [Dr. Mukundakam Sharma]

New Delhi; May 06, 2009