PER: SANDEEP GOSAIN, JM
 This appeal filed by the assessee is directed against order of the ld. CIT(A)

dated 08-11-2023, National Faceless Appeal Centre, Delhi [ hereinafter referred

to as (NFAC) ] for the assessment year 2015-16 raising therein following grounds

of appeal. ''1. In the facts and circumstances the case and in law, Id.
 CIT(A)/ NFAC, has erred in confirming the action of the Id.
 AO, in treating the trading in securities as Bogus Transaction,
 thereby disallowing the exemption of Long Term Capital Gains
 of Rs. 5,42,187 and making addition under Section 69A,to the
 income of the assessee. The action of the Id. CIT(A)/NFAC in 2 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
confirming the actions of Id. AO is illegal, unjustified, arbitrary
and against the facts of the case. Relief may please be granted
by considering the gain on sale of listed equity shares as long-
term capital gains and allowing consequential relief by deleting
the entire additions of Rs. 5,42,187/-. 2. In the facts and circumstances the case and in law, Id. CIT(A) NFAC, has erred in confirming the action of the Id. AO, in making additions of Rs. 27,109/- as undisclosed
expenditures under Section 69C, on account of alleged
commission paid on obtaining Long Term Capital Gain. The
action of the Id CIT(A)/NFAC in confirming the actions of Id.
AO is illegal unjustified, arbitrary and against the facts of the
case. Relief may please be granted by deleting the additions of
Rs. 27,109/-. 3. In the facts and circumstances the case and in law, Id. CIT(A) NFAC, has erred in confirming the action of the Id. AO, in taking shelter of irrelevant considerations for coming to
his prejudiced conclusion of treating the transaction as SHAM
The action of the Id. CIT(A)/NFAC in confirming the actions of
ld. AO is illegal, unjustified, arbitrary and against the facts of
the case. Relief may please be granted by quashing the entire
assessment order being based on irrelevant considerations as
well as based on surmises and conjectures. Entire addition of
Rs. 5,69,296 may please be deleted. 4. In the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, Id
CIT(A)/NFAC has erred in, confirming the action of the f AO,
in making additions to the income of the assessee without
providing all the material used against the assessee for making
additions of Rs. 5,69,296. The action of the Id. CIT(A)/NFAC
in confirming the actions of Id. AO is illegal, unjustified
arbitrary and in violation of principles of natural justice Relief
may please be granted by quashing the assessment order passed
by ld. AO and confirmed by Id. CIT(A)/NFAC being in
violation of principles of natural justice. ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
2.1 Brief facts of the case are that the assessee, an individual, for the year under

consideration, filed her Return of Income on 29.03.2016, declaring total income of

Rs.2,88,240 wherein the assessee claimed exemption of LTCG u/s 10(38) of

Rs.5,42,187 on the scrip of M/s Eins Edutech Ltd. The Assessment was completed

u/s 143(3), vide order dated 30.11.2017, wherein the returned income was

accepted. It is noted that the case was then subjected to proceedings u/s 263 of the

Act and PCIT- Alwar passed order u/s 263 dated 11.12.2019 setting aside the

assessment with the direction to AO to examine the issue of LTCG on scrip of M/s

Eins Edutech Ltd. In this case, the AO, in the set aside proceedings, vide order

dated 19.09.2021 denied the exemption claimed by the assessee u/s 10(38) of the

Act. It is noted at para 9 & 10 at page 23 of the assessment order wherein the AO

observed that (9) Under these circumstances, it is held that assessee has

introduced her income from undisclosed sources in a planner manner through

colourful device. The LTCG of Rs.5,42,187/- claimed as exmpt u/s 10(38) of the

Act cannot be allowed and is added back towards assessee's taxable income under

section 69A of the Act. (10) In addition to this fact that the accommodation entries

regarding sale of shares have been obtained by the assessee after paying certain

charges i.e. commission as in the case with al such penny stocks involving

accommodation entries in the form of bogus LTCG. As these charges are not

recorded in the books, such commission is presumed @ 5% of the quantum amount 4 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
of Rs.5,42,187/-. The amount of commission paid is accordingly arrived at

Rs.27,109/- is added as unexplained expenditure u/s 69C of the Act for arranging

accommodation entries. Conclusively, the AO made addition of Rs.5,42,187/-u/s

69A and Rs.27,109/- u/s 69C of the Act making the total addition of Rs.5,69,296/-. 2.2 Being aggrieved by the order of the AO, the assessee carried the matter

before the ld. CIT(A) who confirmed the action of the AO by observing as under:- CIT(A) has no merit and the same deserves to be deleted in toto. ''SUBMISSIONS 1. During the assessment proceedings, original and set aside, the assessee placed all the
above evidences on record. Ld. AO did not point out any defect or inherent weakness or doubted
the authenticity of any of the evidences or explanation. Further, ld. AO has not held that the
material documents placed on record by the assesse like broker's bills, contract notes, demat
statement etc. were false, fabricated or fictitious. 2. Further, in the entire order, ld. AO, nowhere stated that the assessee did not fulfill
any of the conditions as contained in section 10(38) of the IT Act, 1961. ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA 3. Even after accepting all the relevant evidences, being authentic and genuine, ld.
 AO was carried away by the general study report of the Investigation Wing, Kolkata. AO
 rejected the claim of the assessee in the summary manner. AO developed a preconceived
 notionthatanytransaction of purchase and sale of shares wherein profits are generated are
 nothing but penny stocks. 4. It is undisputed that the transaction of sale of shares of EEL was done through
 Recognized Stock Exchange. It is also undisputed that the shares were quoted at the time
 of purchase as well as sale. Attention is drawn to the fact that in the year 2005, an
 amendment was brought about in section 43(5) of Income Tax Act through insertion of
 clause (d) wherein derivative transactions carried out through recognized stock exchange
 were not henceforth considered to be speculative transaction. In this regard, Hon'ble
 Finance Minister, Mr. P Chidambaram on the floor of the Parliament while setting out the
 reason for such amendment in his budget speech mentioned as under: for the purposes of the Income Tax Act ." 5. Thus, clearly the government itself was of the view that transactions through
 Recognized Stock Exchange cannot in any way be doubted, as there were robust systems,
 checks and balances, audit trail which was put in place on these Recognized Stock
 Exchanges. Doubting the present transaction of the assessee would be contrary to the
 confidence instilled on such transactions by the Government. 6. It is pertinent to note that the process at Stock Exchange Network is under: 7. Likewise, in the case of assessee also the assessee or her broker did not know who
the buyers were. The assessee had no connection or nexus with the buyers. The assessee
genuinely undertook the sale transaction and complied with the relevant law. 8. It is clearly discernible from the assessment order that ld. AO placed sole reliance
on the general observations of Investigation Wing, Kolkata, developed a preconceived
notion and concluded the assessment. Ld. AO was so hell-bent to reach to his
premeditated conclusion that he did not follow the procedure of assessment as required by
the law in true spirit. Section 142 (2) of the Act provides that for the purpose of obtaining
full information in respect of income or loss of any person, the AO may make such
enquiry as he considers necessary. Meaning thereby any information received from the
Investigation Wing is required to be corroborated and affirmed during the course of
assessment by the AO. Separate and independent enquiry is required to be made. 9. In the case of the assessee ld. AO could have undertaken the following: 10. However, in the present case, the entire assessment proceedings were without
enquiry for the reason best known to ld. AO. Ld. AO did not make any effort to collect
the relevant information, specifically with reference to the assessee. All the general
observations of Investigation Wing, i.e. a separate department which has not been
assigned assessment work, was relied for reaching to conclusion. 11. Ld. AO was totally clueless as he was not aware of whose cases were investigated,
how such cases were related with the assessee, whether action for initiating prosecution
against the companies and all others allegedly involved in bogus transactions was taken.
None of the so called evidences collected or statements recorded by Investigation Wing
were confronted to assessee. The assessee was not provided statements if any relied upon
and opportunity to cross examine. It was not mentioned in the AO whether any further
action was taken against EEL or all other person alleged to be involved. The said situation
creates a doubt on the fact that was any enquiry really conducted by the Investigation
Wing. 12. Ld. AO miserably failed to point out even single evidence which could suggest
that the transaction undertaken by the assessee had any correlation with those features of
penny stock. Ld. AO failed to bring to the fore following points: 13. Ld. AO placed reliance on the report of the Investigation Wing which seem to
have reference of statements of various persons involved in penny stocks. The statements
remained unsubstantiated by the ld. AO. Such statements, if any, are mere oral testimony
of a person. Principles of natural justice were not followed and assessee was neither
provided the copy of statements nor opportunity to cross examine. 14. The decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries
(CIVIL APPEAL NO. 4228 OF 2006) is relied upon wherein it was held as under:- 15. Hon'ble Supreme Court further in the case of PCIT vs Parasben Kasturchand
Kochar [2021] 130 taxmann.com 177 (SC) dismissed SLP filed against the decision of
Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in the case of PCIT vs Parasben Kasturchand Kochar [2021]
130 taxmann.com 176 (Gujarat). Hon'ble Gujarat High Court held that there was no
substantial question of law and upheld the finding of the Tribunal (in Para 4). Hon'ble
Tribunal held that in a case where assessee produced all the evidences and addition was
made on the basis of statements recorded by Investigation Wing, which were neither
confronted nor the assessee was allowed opportunity to cross examine, such addition
could not be sustained (Para 2): 16. Reliance is also placed on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs Odeon Builders (P .) Ltd [2019] 110 taxmann.com 64 (SC)
Hon'ble Supreme Court held that if the addition was based on third party information
gathered by Investigation wing then addition cannot be made unless such information is
provided to the assessee and opportunity of cross examination is provided more so when
assessee placed on records all the evidences. The relevant findings are as under: 17. Before Hon'ble Jurisdictional Rajasthan High Court in the case of PCIT vs Sanjay
Chhabra D.B. ITA No. 22/2021 it was submitted that the Tribunal erred in holding that
the information and statements recorded by Investigation Wing could not be taken into
consideration while making assessment as such material was not disclosed nor an
opportunity was accorded for cross-examination of the assessee. It was submitted before
the Hon'ble Court that Tribunal did not examine the case on touchstone of human
probability. However, Hon'ble High Court upheld the order of the Tribunal. It was
considered that prejudice was caused to the assessee as he should have been allowed an
opportunity of being heard and of rebutting the evidences against him. It was also
impliedly held that direct evidences weigh more than circumstantial evidences and human
probabilities. The relevant extract of order is as under: 17. It is submitted that ld. AO's conclusions and findings against the assessee were
chiefly because of the astounding jump in the share prices within the span of 1 year.Ld.
AO has also tried to analyze the rise and fall in the market value of shares of EEL by
simply relying on the information available in the public domain. It is submitted that ld.
AO is not an expert in analyzing the share market outcomes neither he has relied on the
report of any expert. Ld. AO has not proved the authenticity of the data analyzed by
him.Ld. AO predominantly proceeded on the basis of analysis of the financials of EEL.
According to his interpretation financials of companies do not justify such phenomenal
rise in the market price of shares. In this regard it is submitted that investments many a
times are done looking at the future prospects rather than on the basis of financial position
as on the date of making such investment. 18. Ld. AO characterized EEL as a company with almost no business and with losses
(AO Page 20). It is pertinent to note that many loss making companies are trading at a
high price in the stock exchange. Also Zomato, again a loss making company, announced
its IPO on 14.07.2021 at a price band of Rs. 72 to Rs.76. Such issue was oversubscribed
40.38 times. 19. Ld. AO alleged that the face value of shares was splitted after manipulating the
market prices of the shares to a high level (AO Page 20). It is worth mentioning that
Regulated Stock Exchange is a free market where the investors do not have any control
over price. It is submitted that share prices are dependent upon various variables Some of
these variables are past performance on varied matters whereas some of these variables
are dependent on future prospects. If the approach of ld. AO is applied to eCommerce 11 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
companies viz Flipkart, Snapdeal, etc then their valuation, in the wisdom of ld. AO, would
be bogus. 20. Ld. AO merely on the basis of similarity of the chart of closing price of the
company (downloaded from Money control website) and chart of a penny stock company
( AO Page 20) concluded that EEL is a penny stock and that its price was rigged by
operators for giving accommodation entries in form of bogus LTCG or STCL to various
assessees. In view of above it is submitted that just because both the charts are having
same patterns , EEL cannot be judged as a penny stock. Without any specific findings of
penny stock, only on basis of circumstances it cannot be concluded that EEL is a penny
stock. 21. Ld. AO alleged that the shares were purchased off market and not on exchange
(AO Page 21). In this regard it is submitted that shares were purchased in physical form
but on stock exchange. The shares off market could be purchased either through allotment
by the company which is undisputedly not in the case of assessee or through a person but
in that case broker is not involved and does not issue such a bill. Hence, the shares were
purchased through stock exchange only. The shares were of a company which was listed
and were purchased through a registered broker. Both the company and broker were
regulated by SEBI. The bill was having all the particulars as suggested by SEBI.
Therefore, no adverse inference can be drawn. 22. Ld. AO adversely viewed the fact that the shares were dematerialized just before
sale (AO Page 23). In this regard, it is submitted that the assessee was not having Demat
A/c at that time of purchase as it was not compulsory to have one in those days. As soon
as Demat A/c was opened i.e on 30.12.2014, the shares were dematerialized in a week's
time [PB 5,7-8]. It is not the case that the assessee was having Demat A/c still the assessee
purchased shares in physical form. Thus, no adverse inference can be drawn. 23. Ld. AO in the entire assessment order did not discuss anything about conducting
any enquiry with regards to the so called exit providers. However, in Para 8.1 c) (AO
Page 22) ld. AO mentioned that the counter parties in case of assessee were Surabhi
Dealmark Private Limited and Vindyavasini Agency Private Limited. Notices u/s 133(6) were served, however, ld. AO did not make any effort to collect the relevant information,
specifically with reference to the assessee. All the general observations of Investigation
Wing, i.e. a separate department which has not been assigned assessment work, was relied
for reaching to conclusion. It is submitted that merely on the basis of the information
received from Internet it cannot be concluded that all the companies registered with ROC,
Kolkata are involved in bogus LTCG scam. Ld. AO did not conduct any enquiry to reach
to the root of the matter of assessee's case. Hence, such vague and uncorroborated
information cannot be used against the assessee. ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA 24. If at all the method of investing, as suggested by the ld. AO, is considered then
there would not have been any investment taking place in startups in our country. 25. It is submitted that ld. AO has just made assumptions whereas there is nothing on
record to show that the broker of assessee was suspended by SEBI or was involved in
alleged scam. 26. It is submitted that the order of ld. AO itself proves that almost NIL efforts of his
own were made by him to reach to his own conclusion. It is submitted that out of order of
34 pages, ld. AO at pages 1 to 3 reproduced the general information of the asessee's case,
pages 4 to 13 reproduced general characteristic of penny stocks, pages 14 to 20
reproduced charts and financials of the company, page 24 reproduced reply of show cause
notice, pages 25,26,29 and 30 reproduced certain case laws, page 27 and 28 reproduced
SIT report. In view of above it is submitted that reliance on the generic reports without further
corroboration on the basis of cogent material, do not justify the conclusions of ld. AO that
transactions were bogus and sham. 27. Ld. AO has not highlighted single pinpointed evidence against the assessee. It is
submitted that the explanation given by the assessee should be considered objectively
before an officer takes a decision to accept it or reject it. The Department cannot act
unreasonably and reject the explanation. Before the Department rejects any explanation, it
must either show an inherent weakness in the explanation or rebut it by putting to the
assessee some information or evidence which it has in its possession. The Department
cannot by merely rejecting unreasonably a good explanation, convert good proof into no
proof. In the absence of something which showed that the "explanation was inherently
improbable" the explanation deserves to be accepted. If the explanation was "fairly
satisfactory" the same deserves to be accepted. All these legal propositions have been
propounded by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Sreelekha Banerjee v. CIT [1963]
49 ITR 112. 28 The explanation furnished by the assessee needs to be considered objectively and
the explanation given cannot be rejected arbitrarily or capriciously, without sufficient
grounds, on suspicion or on imaginary or irrelevant grounds. Sona Electric Co v. CIT (1985) 152 ITR 507 (Del. ); Roshan Di Hatti v. CIT (1977) 107 ITR 938 (SC). 29. Unless any evidence, direct or indirect, is brought to the fore by the ld. AO which
showed that the sale proceeds of shares so received actually belonged to the assessee, no 13 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
addition can be made to the income of the assessee merely on suspicion. Similar ratio was laid down by the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Shubh Mines Private
Limited (Income Tax Appeal No. 96/15), vide its order dated 03.05.2016. Relevant Para
of the said order is set out hereunder for the sake of convenience: 30. Ld. AO is expected to decide the case on the basis of evidence and proof and not
suspicion alone. The theory of human behavior and preponderance of probabilities cannot
be cited as a basis to turn a blind eye to the evidences produced by the assessee. 31. It is submitted that ld. AO has not mentioned about any action, being taken by the
Income Tax Department against the purchaser of such shares and outcome of such action
in the hands of the purchaser. Absence of any such mention leads us to believe that the
transactions of purchase were found fully explained in the hands of the purchaser. If that
is so there cannot be any case of the ld. AO that the amount invested for purchase of
shares belonged to the assessee. 32. It is submitted that the legal evidences produced by the assessee has to guide the
decision in the matter as the courts of law are bound by evidences and not the general
observations based on statements, probabilities, human behavior and discovery of the
modus operandi adopted in earning alleged bogus LTCG and STCG, that might have
surfaced during investigations. An alleged scam might have taken place on LTCG etc. But
it has to be established in each case, by the party alleging so, that this assessee in question
was part to this scam. The chain of events and the live link of the assessee's involvement
in the scam should be established. The allegation implies that cash was paid by the
assessee and in return the assessee received LTCG, which is exempt from income tax, by
way of cheque through banking channels. This allegation that cash had changed hands has
to be proved with evidence, by the revenue 33. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Omar Salay Mohamed Sait v. CIT [1959] 37
ITR 151 (SC) had held that no addition can be made on the basis of surmises, suspicion
and conjectures, totally disregarding the documentary evidence. The Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of Durga Prasad More [1971] 82 ITR 540 held that apparent must be
considered real unless proved contrary.The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
Umacharan Shaw & Bros. v. CIT (1959) [1959] 37 ITR 271 (SC) held that suspicion
however strong, cannot take the place of evidence. ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA 34. The Hon'ble Supreme Court also in the case of Lalchand Bhagat Ambica Ram v.
CIT [1959] 37 ITR 288 (SC) held that assessment could not be based on background of
suspicion and in absence of any evidence to support the same. The Hon'ble Court held: 35. In the case of Dhakeshwari Cotton Mills Ltd. (1954) 26 ITR 775 (SC), of order,
Hon'ble Supreme Court laid down the following propositions in the matter of utilization
of adverse evidence and material collected against the assessee: 36. Transactions undertaken by the assessee were absolutely in accordance with the
procedure laid down in the law and fully evidenced. No defects could be pointed out by
the ld. AO. Therefore, these transactions must be accepted as genuine. Reliance is placed
on the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Daulat Ram
Rawatmull (1973) 87 ITR 349 (SC), Wherein it was held that the onus of proving that the
apparent was not real was on the party who claimed it to be so. The burden of proving a
transaction to be bogus has to be strictly discharged by adducing legal evidences, which
would directly prove the fact of bogusness or establish circumstance unerringly and
reasonably raising interference to that effect. Thus, merely because there is some general
tendency of few traders in rigging up the market, the same should not deprive the assessee
from profits arising from genuine sales which had actually resulted in LTCG under section 10(38) . 37. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sunita Dhadda vide its recent order dated
28.03.2018, in SPECIAL LEAVE PETITION (CIVIL) Diary No(s). 9432/2018, upheld
the ratio laid down by Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court and also Hon'ble ITAT, Jaipur
Bench, that if the AO wants to rely upon documents found with third parties, the
presumption u/s 292C against the assessee is not available. As per the principles of natural
justice, the AO has to provide the evidence to the assessee and grant opportunity of cross
examination. Secondary evidences cannot be relied on as neither the person who prepared
the documents nor the witnesses are produced. The violation of natural justice renders the
assessment void. The Department cannot be given a second chance. 38. Under similar circumstances, in addition to above referred cases, in the following
further cases allegation of penny stock was quashed and LTCG was found genuine. case of Pooja Agarwal, ITA 385/2011 and PCIT vs Pramod Jain, DB ITA No. 209/2018
wherein it was held that no addition can be made if the following conditions are satisfied: B. Hon'ble Other High Court

a. Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of PCIT vs Krishna Devi [2021] 126 taxmann.com
80 (Delhi) categorically noted that the Court has to decide the issue on the basis of evidence and
proof and not suspicion alone. The theory of human behavior and preponderance of probabilities
cannot be cited as a basis to turn a blind eye to the evidence produced by the assessee. If the
revenue has failed to bring evidence on record that money changed hands and there was
agreement to convert unaccounted money mere reliance on the report of investigation without
further corroboration does not justify the conclusion that the assessee obtained an
accommodation entry. Relevant extract is as under: In the absence of any such material that could support the case put forth by the Appellant,
the additions cannot be sustained. 12. Mr. Hossain's submissions relating to the startling spike in the share price and
other factors may be enough to show circumstances that might create suspicion; however
the Court has to decide an issue on the basis of evidence and proof, and not on suspicion
alone. The theory of human behavior and preponderance of probabilities cannot be cited
as a basis to turn a blind eye to the evidence produced by the Respondent. With regard to
the claim that observations made by the CIT(A) were in conflict with the Impugned Order,
we may only note that the said observations are general in nature and later in the order,
the CIT(A) itself notes that the broker did not respond to the notices. Be that as it may, the
CIT(A) has only approved the order of the AO, following the same reasoning, and relying
upon the report of the Investigation Wing. Lastly, reliance placed by the Revenue on
Suman Poddar case (supra) and Sumati Dayal case (supra) is of no assistance. Upon 18 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
examining the judgment of Suman Poddar case (supra) at length, we find that the decision
therein was arrived at in lightof the peculiar facts and circumstances demonstrated before
the ITAT and the Court, such as, inter alia, lack of evidence produced by the Assessee
therein to show actual sale of shares in that case. On such basis, the ITAT had returned
the finding of fact against the Assessee, holding that the genuineness of share transaction
was not established by him. However, this is quite different from the factual matrix at
hand. Similarly, the case of Sumati Dayal (supra) too turns on its own specific facts. The
above-stated cases, thus, are of no assistance to the case sought to be canvassed by the
Revenue. 13. The learned ITAT, being the last fact-finding authority, on the basis of the
evidence brought on record, has rightly come to the conclusion that the lower tax
authorities are not able to sustain the addition without any cogent material on record. We
thus find no perversity in the Impugned Order..." b) In the case of Shyam R. Pawar [2015] 229 Taxman 256 (Bombay), assessee declared
certain capital gain on sale of shares of two companies. AO observing that for the impugned
penny stock, assessee had transacted through the broker at Calcutta and the entities/companies,
whose shares were traded, were not having sufficient business activities justifying the increase in
their shares prices. Therefore, he held that certain operators of the companies and brokers
devised a scheme to convert unaccounted money of the assessee to accounted income and the
assessee utilized the scheme. AO, thus, disallowed the assessee's claim of earning capital gain
and made addition under section 68 . Hon'ble Bombay High Court upheld the order of Hon'ble
ITAT Mumbai Bench wherein it deleted the said additions. Hon'ble High Court held that "The
contract notes in Form.A with two brokers were available and which gave details of the
transactions. The contract note is a system generated and prescribed by the Stock Exchange.
From this material, in para 11 the Tribunal concluded that this was not mere accommodation of
cash and enabling it to be converted into accounted or regular payment. The discrepancy
pointed out by the Calcutta Stock Exchange regarding client Code has been referred to. But the
Tribunal concluded that itself is not enough to prove that the transactions in the impugned
shares were bogus/sham. The details received from Stock Exchange have been relied upon and
for the purposes of faulting the Revenue in failing to discharge the basic onus. If the Tribunal
proceeds on this line and concluded that inquiry was not carried forward and with a view to
discharge the initial or basic onus, then such conclusion of the Tribunal cannot be termed as
perverse. The conclusions as recorded in para 12 of the Tribunal's order are not vitiated by any
error of law apparent on the face of the record either. c) Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the below mentioned cases:. (a)PCIT v. Prem Pal Gandhi vide order dated 18.01.2018 ITA.95.2017 (b) PCIT v. Hitesh Gandhi vide order dated 16.02.2017 ITA No. 18 of 2017
 (O&M)
 In these cases, as in the present case, for the entire transactions of sale entered by
 assessee, entire trail of documents were submitted. Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana
 High Court gave credence to such documentary evidence and gave a categorical
 finding that the concerned departmental authorities could not, at any stage, 19 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
 "progress beyond the stage of suspicion". It was also emphatically stated that no
 defects could be pointed out in the trail of documents by the concerned
 departmental authorities. C. Hon'ble Jurisdictional Jaipur ITAT a) The case of the assessee is squarely covered in his favour by the decision
 of Hon'ble Coordinate Jaipur Bench in case of Kota Dal Mills vs DCITITA No.
 997 to 1002/JP/2018 & 1119/JP/2018. Under identical circumstance, where it was
 observed that addition was confirmed based on the report of DDIT (Inv) Kolkata,
 the addition was held to be not sustainable as the same was based merely on
 suspicion. Hon'ble ITAT observed the following: Shri Manohar Lal Chugh, ITA No. 312/JP/2021, Jaipur ITAT [Dated 31.08.2022]
Smt. Saroj Parwal, ITA No. 753/JP/2019, Jaipur ITAT [24.02.2022]
Late Shri Satpal Singh vs ACIT - ITA No. 289/JP/2020 dated 14.10.2021
Nilesh Agarwal HUF vs ITO - ITA No. 223/JP/2020 dated 09.02.2021
Ashok Agarwal vs ACIT - ITA No. 124/JP/2020 dated 18.11.2020
DCIT vs Sanjay Chhabra - ITA No. 47 to 51/JP/2020 dated 19.08.2020
DCIT vs Saurabh Mittal - ITA No. 16/JP/2018 dated 29.08.2018 ITO vs Kapil Mittal - ITA No. 17/JP/2018 dated 29.08.2018
Om Prakash Modi vs DCIT - ITA No. 402&203/JP/2017 dated 24.08.2018
JVS Foods Pvt vs DCIT - ITA No. 133/JP/2016 dated 16.07.2018
Vivek Agarwal vs ITO - ITA No. 292/JP/2017 dated 06.04.2018
PurushotamSoni vs ITO - ITA No. 288/JP/2017 dated 06.04.2018
Meghraj Singh Shekhawat vs DCIT - ITA No. 443&444/JP/2017 dated 07.03.2018 DCIT vs Vigyan Lodha - ITA No. 169/JP/2022 dated 20.12.2022

D. Hon'ble Other ITAT a) Farrah Marker, ITA No. 3801/Mum/2011 (ITAT Mumbai Bench)
"we are of the considered opinion that the authorities below,i.e. PCIT/CIT(A) have made the
addition under section 68 of the Act merely on presumptions, suspicions and surmises in respect
of penny stocks; disregarding the direct evidences placed on record and furnished by the
assessee in the form of brokers contract notes for purchases and sales of the 'said shares' of M/s.
Shukun Constructions Ltd., copies of the physical share certificates and her D.MAT account
statement establishing the holding of the shares in her name prior to the sale thereof;
confirmation of the transactions of buying and selling of the 'said shares' by the respective stock
brokers, receipt of sale proceeds through banking channels, etc. As observed earlier in this
order, we are of the view that the statement recorded from ShriNirajSanghvi on 31.12.2007, the
day the order of assessment was passed, would have no evidentiary or corroborative value to be
the basis for coming to an adverse view in the case on hand, since it was recorded behind the
assessee's back, from a person who was not involved in the purchase of the said shares and also
since the assessee was not afforded opportunity for rebuttal of the same and to cross-examine the
said person. We are also of the view that the ratio and the factual matrix of the decisions in the
cited case, i.e. JatinChhadwa (supra), Harkhchand K. Gada (HUF) & others (supra) and
Andaman Timber Industries (supra) would be applicable and support the case of the assessee
since no adverse finding has been rendered in respect of the direct material evidence placed on 21 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
record in respect of her transactions of purchase and sale of the 'said shares' of M/s. Shukun
Constructions Ltd. which stand duly disclosed in her audited Balance Sheets filed with the return
of income of assessment years 2004.05 and the current year under consideration" Disregarding the direct evidences filed by the assessee in the form of Contract Notes,
brokers' confirmation and PA-No. Without making any enquiry on his part, the PCIT
simply formed a belief that since some irregular practices have happened in the stock
market, the windfall gain made by the assessee is a result of such malpractices. We find
that the Ld. CIT(A) has also been carried away with such news items without realizing
that his powers are co. terminus to that of the PCIT and if the PCIT has failed to make
certain enquiries, the Ld. CIT(A) could have done so on his own. The Revenue cannot
convert good evidences into bad evidences on surmises and conjectures just because
certain brokers formed a cartel and manipulated prices of certain stocks and if the
assessee is one of the beneficiaries, then solely on the basis of this, it cannot be said that
the assessee has entered into some sham transaction. We have no hesitation to say that
the findings of the lower authorities are totally based on presumptions and surmises,
without any enquiry. After considering direct evidences brought on record by the assessee
and the findings of the Hon'ble Jharkhand High Court (supra), we have no hesitation to
hold that the transaction has resulted into Long Term Capital gains asshown by the
assessee. We therefore direct the PCIT to accept the gains as Long Term Capital Gains." c) Bhavesh Shambhulal Somani, ITA No. 2263/Ahd/2015, (ITAT - Ahmedabad
Bench)
"Further even on merits also assessee has proved genuineness of the transaction by
providing necessary details and documents in the form of contract note, demat a/c, bank
statement and NSE details and proved that the impugned transaction was not entered
through accommodation entry provider namely Mahasagar Securities Pvt. ltd. and
others." d) Pratik Suryakant Shah [2017] 77 taxmann.com 260 (ITAT - Ahmedabad Bench)
"The shares were thereafter sent to the company for the transfer of name. The company
transferred the shares in the name of the assessee. There is nothing on record which could
suggest that the shares were never transferred in the name of the assessee. There is also
nothing on record to suggest that the shares were never with the assessee. On the
contrary, the shares were thereafter transferred to demat account. The demat account was
in the name of the assessee, from where the shares were sold. In our understanding of the
facts, if the shares were of some fictitious company which was not listed in the Bombay
Stock Exchange/National Stock Exchange, the shares could never have been transferred
to demat account. ShriMukeshChoksi may have been providing accommodation entries to
various persons but so far as the facts of the case in hand suggest that the transactions 22 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
were genuine and therefore, no adverse inference should be drawn.The claim of the
assessee cannot be denied on the basis of presumption and surmises in respect of penny
stock by disregarding the direct evidences on record relating to the sale/purchase
transactions in shares supported by broker's contract notes, confirmation of receipt of
sale proceeds through regular banking channels and the demat account." e) Ramesh Kumar Jain (HUF) vs. DCIT [2013] 144 ITD 383 (Jodhpur. Trib.)
"...After circumspecting the entire records, we have found that at pp. 28 to 37 entire
proof of purchase and sale of these shares are found and enclosed. All these papers were
available before the PCIT. We have noticed that the sale of shares was found to be
genuine when the PCIT made enquiries from the stock exchange directly. This fact is
evident from assessment order (refer p. 17 para 8.17). In our considered opinion, the
PCIT has acted on the basis of suspicion alone...." f) Manish Kumar Baid vs ACIT, Cir.35, Kolkata I.T.A No. 1236/Kol/2017
"The enquiry by the Investigation Wing and/or the statements of several persons recorded
by the Investigation Wing in connection with the alleged bogus transactions in the shares
of KAFL also did not implicate the assessee and/or his broker. It is also a matter of
record that the assessee furnished all evidences in the form of bills, contract notes,demat
statements and the bank accounts to prove the genuineness of the transactions relating to
purchase and sale of shares resulting in LTCG. These evidences were neither found by the
ld PCIT to be false or fabricated. The facts of the case and the evidences in support of the
assessee's case clearly support the claim of the assessee that the transactions of the
assessee were bonafide and genuine and therefore the ld PCIT was not justified in
rejecting the assessee's claim of exemption under section 10(38) of the Act." g) GTC Industries Ltd. vs. ACIT [2017] 164 ITD 1 (Mumbai Trib.)(SB)
"....Ultimately the entire case of Revenue hinges upon the presumption that assessee is
bound to have some large share in so called secret money in the form of premium and its
circulation. However, this presumption or suspicion how strong it may appear to be true
but needs to be corroborated by some evidence to establish a link that GTC actually had
some kind of a share in such secret money. It is quite a trite law that suspicion howsoever
strong may be but cannot be the basis of addition except for some material evidence on
record. The theory of 'preponderance of probability' is applied to weigh the evidences of
either side and draw aconclusion in favour of a party which has more favourable factors
in his side. The conclusions have to be drawn on the basis of certain admitted facts and
materials and not on the basis of presumptions of facts that might go againsttheassessee.
Once nothing has been proved against the assessee with aid of any direct material
especially when various rounds of investigations have been carried out, then nothing can
be implicated against the assessee..." h) M/s Arvind Kumar Jain HUF, ITA No. 4862/MUM/2014 (Mumbai - ITAT)
Ratio laid down: If the DMAT account and contract note show details of the share
transactions and the AO has not proved the transactions to be bogus, the capital gains 23 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
earned on the said transactions cannot be treated as unaccounted income u/s 68 . The fact
that the broker was tainted and violated SEBI regulations would not make assessee's
transactions bogus 39. Decision of Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of Swati Bajaj IA NO. GA/2/2022 IN
ITAT/6/2022 is not applicable in the case of the assessee.
It is submitted that the case of the assessee is not covered by the recent decision of
Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of Swati Bajaj IA NO. GA/2/2022 IN
ITAT/6/2022 because of following legal and factual reasons: 40. It is submitted that small investor these days get lot of bulk messages with regard
to the tip of investing in the share market. These are aimed at rigging the penny stocks and
duping the small investors. This has also been accepted even by the Chairman of the
Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Shri R.S Sharma. News in this regard was also
published by Economic Times.''

2.4 On the other hand, the ld. DR supported the order of the ld. CIT(A). 2.5 We have heard both the parties and perused the materials available on

record and the case laws cited by the respective parties. In this case it is

noted that the AO made an addition of Rs.5,42,187/- u/s 69A on

disallowance of exemption of the Act and also made an addition of

Rs.27,109/- on account of commission paid on LTCG thus the total addition

made in the hands of the assessee was to the tune of Rs.5,69,296/- which has

been confirmed by the ld. CIT(A) holding that the order of the AO is well 25 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
reasoned order. From the records, it is noted that the assessee regularly trades

and invests in commodities shares and securities. The said fact is evident

from Capital Account wherein the assessee has booked trading profit NMCE

and commodity sale profit [PB 9] and Ledger Account of assessee

maintained with SEBI registered broker Basan Equity Broking Ltd.(BEBL)

[PB 6]. During the year under consideration the assessee earned LTCG on

one scrip namely M/s Eins Edutech Ltd. Such LTCG on the scrip was

considered bogus/sham by AO. The assessee, during A.Y. 2014-15 i.e. year

preceding the year under consideration, purchased 1250 shares of EEL on

17.01.2014 [PB 1]. The said shares were purchased through a registered

broker Neptune Financial Advisory Private Limited in physical form,

however, through exchange for a total consideration of Rs. 20,000. The

purchase consideration was paid in cash. Thereafter, the assessee opened her

Demat A/c with another registered broker Basan Equity Broking Ltd. (BEBL) on 30.12.2014 [PB 7-8]. Soon after opening such Demat A/c, the

shares of EEL were transferred in the Demat A/c on 07.01.2015 i.e. within 7

days of opening the Demat A/c [PB 5]. The Assesse then, during the

relevant previous year, sold 1250 shares of EEL, on Recognized Stock

Exchange on 20.02.2015, through registered broker Basan Equity Broking

Ltd., for total consideration of Rs. 5,62,946 [PB 2-3, 6]. The sale transaction 26 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
had suffered expenses like brokerage, service tax, STT, stamp duty, turnover

tax, etc which were specifically recorded in the sale bills issued by BEBL on

20.02.2015. The sale consideration was received through banking channel

[PB 4]. During the course of assessment proceedings, first round and even in

set aside proceedings entire transaction for EEL, end to end, was

substantiated by the assessee. The assessee earned Long Term Capital Gain

amounting to Rs. 5,42,187 from the sale of shares of EEL. The shares were

listed shares, were sold through recognized stock exchange and the STT was

paid on the sale transactions. The assessee claimed the said income as

exempt income u/s 10(38) in return of income filed for the relevant previous

year whose details are as under: It is noted from the available records that the AO did not mention in his order that

the assessee did not fulfill any of the conditions as contained in Section 10(38) of

the Act. It is an undisputed fact that the transactions of sale of shares of EEL was

done through Recognized Stock Exchange. It is observed that the AO failed to 27 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
point out even single evidence which could suggest that the transaction undertaken

by the assessee had any correlation with those features of penny stock. The shares

were purchased in physical form but on stock exchange. Thus the shares were

purchased through stock exchange only and the shares were of a company which

was listed and were purchased through a registered broker and both the company

and brokers were regulated by SEBI. The bill was having all the particulars as

suggested by SEBI. Thus no adverse inference can be drawn. The AO is expected

to decide the case on the basis of evidence and proof and not suspicion alone. The

theory of human behavior and preponderance of probabilities cannot be cited as a

basis to turn a blind eye to the evidences produced by the assessee. It is noticed

that the payments and receipts are through banking channel and there is no trail

which could substantiate that the cash has flown back to the assessee. The assessee

has filed paper book containing following index 1. Copy of Purchase Bill issued by Neptune Financial Advisory
 Private Limited (Page 1) 2. Copy of Contract Note cum Sale Bill issued by Basan Equity
 Broking LTD (Page 2-3) 3. Copy of bank statement evidencing receipt of consideration
 on sale (Page 4) 4. Copy of Demat A/c of assessee ( Page 5) 5. Copy of Broker's Ledger evidencing sale of shares of
 assessee (Page 6) 28 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA 6. Copy of communication for opening of Demat A/c of assessee
 (Page 7-8) 7. Copy of Capital A/c and Balance Sheet of the assessee (Page 9) 8. Copy of submissions filed before CIT(A) in the appellate
 Proceedings (Page 10-42)

The Bench also noticed that the AO had not made any enquiry from any of the

parties in spite of the fact that complete names and addresses of such parties were

placed on record by the assessee during the course of assessment proceedings. The

grievance of the ld. AR of the assessee was that neither Investigation Wing Report

was made available to the assessee nor the authors of the so called Investigation

Wing Report were allowed to be cross examined by the assessee. The AO has not

examined any of such brokers and no brokers were allowed to be cross examined

by the assessee. It may be mentioned that in the below mentioned decisions, the

ITAT Kolkata & New Delhi Benches held the gain on sale of shares of M/s. Eins

Edutech Ltd to be genuine and allowed the claim of the assessee made u/s 10(38) of the Act. ( 1) ITO, Ward 28(2) and Ors vs Shivani Gupta an Ors (ITA Nos. 5204 and 8571/Del.2019- decided on 06-04-2021)

 (2) Shankar Lal Daruka vs ITO, Ward 22(4) (ITA No. 19/Kol/2019
 decided on 02-08-2019) 29 ITA NO. 13/JP/2024
 TARA SONI VS ITO, WARD DAUSA
Hence, taking into consideration the above facts, circumstances of the case and the

case laws cited supra, the Bench does not concur with the findings of the ld. CIT(A) and thus the appeal of the assessee is allowed. 3.0 In the result, the appeal filed by the appellant stands allowed with no orders

as to cost. vkns'k dh izfrfyfi vxzsf'kr@Copy of the order forwarded to: