% 04.04.2024 1. Challenge in this writ petition is to the Order dated 03.01.2024 passed
 by the Appellate Authority/District Magistrate under the Maintenance and
 Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 (hereinafter referred to as
 " Senior Citizens Act ") in Appeal No.34/2023 by which the Appellate
 Authority has held that the Gift Deed executed on 20.12.2017 in respect of
 build up property bearing No.41, Gujarat Vihar, Vikas Marg, Delhi-110092
 (hereinafter referred to as "property in question") by the Respondent herein
 be treated as cancelled and null and void from the date of its execution and
 has upheld the Order dated 08.08.2023 passed by the Ld. Addl. District
 Magistrate allowing the application filed by the Respondent under Section
 23 of the Senior Citizens Act. 2. Shorn of unnecessary details, the facts leading to the filing of the W.P.(C) 1455/2024 Page 1 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 11/04/2024 at 20:31:04
 instant writ petition are that the Respondent herein had filed an application
 under Section 23 of the Senior Citizens Act before the Ld. Addl. District
 Magistrate stating that she is the owner of the built up property bearing
 No.41, Gujarat Vihar, Vikas Marg, Delhi-110092 and she was made to
 execute the Gift Deed under fraud. It is stated that the Petitioners herein are
 daughter and son-in-law of the Respondent and under the garb of executing
 a Power of Attorney from the Respondent, a Gift Deed dated 20.12.2017
 was executed by the Respondent which was registered before the office of
 S.R. VIIIA, Preet Vihar, Delhi. 3. It is contended by the Respondent that she is being harassed by her
 daughter and son-in-law and the Gift Deed came to be executed by playing
 fraud upon her due to which the Respondent approached the authority under
 the Senior Citizens Act by filing an application under Section 23 of the
 Senior Citizens Act. The said application was allowed vide Order dated
 08.08.2023 passed by the Ld. Addl. District Magistrate. The appeal filed,
 thereafter, against the said Order dated 08.08.2023 stands rejected by the
 Appellate Authority. 4. The short contention raised by the learned Counsel appearing for the
 Petitioner is that the authorities under the Senior Citizens Act have exceeded
 their jurisdiction under Section 23 of the Senior Citizens Act. Section 23 of
 the Senior Citizens Act is being reproduced below: but not against the transferee for consideration and
 without notice of right. (3) If, any senior citizen is incapable of enforcing the
 rights under sub-sections (1) and (2), action may be
 taken on his behalf by any of the organisation referred
 to in Explanation to sub-section (1) of section 5 ." 5. It is stated by the learned Counsel for the Petitioner that the Gift Deed
 does not state that the same has been executed in lieu of maintenance to be
 provided by the Petitioners herein to the Respondent. He states that the
 proceedings under the Senior Citizens Act are summary in nature and the
 authorities under the Senior Citizens Act ought not to have entered into the
 disputed question of facts and law as to whether the Gift Deed came to be
 executed fraudulently or not. He very candidly states that the daughter and
 son-in-law do not intend to dispossess the Respondent from the property in
 question. He, however, states that the findings of the authorities under the Senior Citizens Act regarding the validity of the Gift Deed cannot be
 sustained in view of the fact that such a finding can only be rendered by a
 Civil Court. 6. Per contra, learned Counsel for the Respondent contends that the Gift
 Deed dated 20.12.2017 came to be executed by playing fraud, coercion and
 undue influence upon the Respondent. She states that the daughter was W.P.(C) 1455/2024 Page 3 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 11/04/2024 at 20:31:05
 living with the Respondent and the marriage of the daughter of the
 Respondent took place on 13.12.2017 which was thereafter registered on
 15.12.2017. She states that the Gift Deed was executed by the Respondent
 within seven (7) days from the date of marriage of the daughter i.e.,
 13.12.2017. She, therefore, states that the facts of the case speak for itself
 and that there was no occasion for the Respondent to execute any kind of a
 Gift Deed which would gift her only dwelling unit to the Petitioner herein. 7. Heard learned Counsel appearing for the Parties and perused the
 material on record. 8. The proceedings under the Senior Citizens Act are summary in nature. Section 6 of the Senior Citizens Act lays down the procedure for taking
 evidence. The purpose of the Senior Citizens Act is to provide for effective
 maintenance and welfare of the parents and Senior Citizens which is
 guaranteed and recognized under the Constitution. A reading of Section 23 of the Senior Citizens Act postulates that only such of those Gift Deeds
 which have been executed after the commencement of the Senior Citizens
 Act in view of maintenance alone would come under the ambit of the Senior
 Citizens Act . There is no recital in the Gift Deed dated 20.12.2017 that the
 same has been executed in view of maintenance. 9. The Apex Court in " Sudesh Chhikara vs. Ramti Devi and Another ",
 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1684 while dealing with the scope and ambit of Section 23 of the Senior Citizens Act, has observed as under: Such a transfer then becomes voidable at the instance
 of the transferor and the Maintenance Tribunal gets
 jurisdiction to declare the transfer as void. 14. When a senior citizen parts with his or her
 property by executing a gift or a release or otherwise
 in favour of his or her near and dear ones, a condition
 of looking after the senior citizen is not necessarily
 attached to it. On the contrary, very often, such
 transfers are made out of love and affection without
 any expectation in return. Therefore, when it is alleged
 that the conditions mentioned in sub-section (1) of Section 23 are attached to a transfer, existence of such
 conditions must be established before the Tribunal. 15. Careful perusal of the petition under Section 23 filed by respondent no. 1 shows that it is not even
 pleaded that the release deed was executed subject to a
 condition that the transferees (the daughters of
 respondent no. 1) would provide the basic amenities
 and basic physical needs to respondent no. 1. Even in
 the impugned order dated 22nd May 2018 passed by the
 Maintenance Tribunal, no such finding has been
 recorded. It seems that oral evidence was not adduced
 by the parties. As can be seen from the impugned
 judgment of the Tribunal, immediately after a reply
 was filed by the appellant that the petition was fixed
 for arguments. Effecting transfer subject to a condition
 of providing the basic amenities and basic physical
 needs to the transferor - senior citizen is sine qua W.P.(C) 1455/2024 Page 5 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 11/04/2024 at 20:31:05
 non for applicability of sub-section (1) of Section 23 . In
 the present case, as stated earlier, it is not even
 pleaded by respondent no. 1 that the release deed was
 executed subject to such a condition. 16. We have perused the counter affidavit filed by
 respondent no. 1. Even in the counter, it is not pleaded
 that the release was subject to such a condition. It is
 merely pleaded that the appellant had no intention to
 take care of her mother. Thus, the order of the
 Maintenance Tribunal cannot be sustained as the twin
 conditions incorporated in sub-Section (1) of Section
 23 were not satisfied. Unfortunately, the High Court
 has not adverted to the merits of the case at all." 10. A perusal of the Gift Deed and the application filed under the Senior
 Citizens Act does not disclose that the Gift Deed was executed by the
 Respondent in view of maintenance, rather the stand of the Respondent is
 that a fraud was played upon her in getting the Gift Deed executed. The
 Authorities under the Senior Citizens Act , therefore, could not have gone
 into the question as to whether a fraud was played upon the Respondent in
 getting the Gift Deed executed or not. The Authorities ought to have referred
 the matter to the Civil Court. It is also undisputed that the Respondent has
 not filed any suit for getting the Gift Deed set aside on the ground of fraud
 played upon her nor have any criminal proceedings been initiated by the
 Respondent against the Petitioners by contending that a fraud has been
 played upon her in getting the Gift Deed executed. 11. As stated above, the purpose and object of the Senior Citizens Act is
 to ensure the welfare and maintenance of the Senior Citizens. Undisputedly,
 the property in question is the only property which is in the possession of the
 Respondent. Keeping in mind the object of the Senior Citizens Act , this W.P.(C) 1455/2024 Page 6 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 11/04/2024 at 20:31:05
 Court is not inclined to put back the Petitioners in possession of the property
 in question. The Respondent is, therefore, permitted to stay in the property
 in question. 12. Chapter VII of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 deals with Gifts. Section 122 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 defines gifts which reads
 as under: 13. Section 123 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 deals with as to
 how a Gift Deed is to be executed. Section 123 of the Transfer of Property
 Act, 1882 reads as under: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 11/04/2024 at 20:31:05 14. The issue as to whether there was an acceptance of Gift, whether the
 Petitioners were put in possession of the property in question, whether the
 gift was executed by fraud etc. are all question of facts which can only be
 determined in a properly instituted suit before a Competent Court. 15. In view of the above, this Court is inclined to set aside the Impugned
 Order dated 03.01.2024 passed by the Appellate Authority/District
 Magistrate and the Order dated 08.08.2023 passed by the Ld. Addl. District
 Magistrate. 16. It is always open for the Respondent to institute a proper suit before a
 Competent Court for getting the Gift Deed set aside on the ground of fraud
 being played upon her. 17. In view of the submissions made by the Petitioners, the Respondent
 can continue to stay in the property without interference from the
 Petitioners. It is open for the Respondent to give the property in question on
 rent for her sustenance and living since the Respondent is staying alone.
 However, the same is subject to any Interim Order passed by a court of
 competent jurisdiction and will be applicable till a court of competent
 jurisdiction decides on the same in the proceedings initiated for this purpose. 18. The Petitioners and the Respondent are restrained from alienating,
 mortgaging and creating third party rights in the property in question. 19. With these observations, the writ petition is disposed of, along with
 pending application(s), if any. SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J
 APRIL 4, 2024
 S. Zakir W.P.(C) 1455/2024 Page 8 of 8 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 11/04/2024 at 20:31:05