M.B. SHAH, J., PRESIDENT 

 

  

 

 It
is the case of the complainant, M/s.Gujarat Lyka Organics Ltd., now merged with M/s.Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., that it deals in production and sale of
antibiotics and life saving drugs and is enjoying a global market. It is the say of the complainant that it had appointed the State Bank of India
(hereinafter referred to as SBI for short), Opp.Party
No.1, as a negotiating bank for the purpose of a Letter of Credit (hereinafter
referred to as L.C. for short) opened at the request of one M/s.Condea Chemical Trading Company, Honkong,
(hereinafter referred to as M/s.Condea for short) by Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. (hereinafter
referred to as HSBC for short) in favour
of the complainant. It is contended that
as the negotiating bank, the SBI offered to render services to the complainant
in the matter of the said L.C. for consideration agreed to be paid by the
complainant. The bank had undertaken to
pay the complainant an amount of US $ 1,41,000 as
mentioned in the L.C.

 

  

 

 The
complainant despatched the goods in October, 1994 as
per the terms of the contract to the consignee, M/s.Condea
Chemical Trading Company, and, on 26.10.1994, handed-over all the necessary
documents to the SBI. The SBI accepted
the documents, and,
after scrutiny, paid the entire amount to be received under the L.C. to the
Complainant by means of credit on 28.10.1994 against the export bills
discounting facility enjoyed by the complainant with the SBI. The documents were forwarded to the HSBC. On
8.11.1994, the issuing bank, HSBC, sent a telex message to the SBI pointing out
certain discrepancies in the documents. The issuing bank also sent another telex message on 15.11.1994 seeking
reply from the SBI and stating that pending the reply they would return the
documents. Finally, the HSBC returned
the documents which were received by the SBI on 19.11.1994. On
8.12.1994, the SBI re-presented the documents clarifying and disclaiming all
discrepancies pointed out by the HSBC. Thereafter, on 24.12.1994, the SBI requested the issuing bank for
confirmation of acceptance, which was refused by the HSBC on 25.12.1994. It is pointed out that on 17.2.1995, the documents were
again presented to the issuing bank by the SBI but the same were returned to
the negotiating bank, i.e., SBI on 8.3.1995 disclaiming the liability under the
L.C. Hence,
the SBI reversed the credit given to the complainant and also recovered
interest amounting to Rs.1,17,212/- from the
complainants account. It
is contended that it was the duty of SBI as a negotiating bank, to scrutinize
the documents and to verify whether the same were in order in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the L.C.
Further, the SBI did not respond promptly to the correspondence
addressed to them by the issuing bank. It is also contended that the L.C. was irrevocable one, but the
complainant had to suffer due to negligent attitude of the SBI because it was
the duty of the
SBI to identify the discrepancies and to notify the same to the complainant,
well in time, in order to enable them to rectify and correct the same. It is further contended that the complainant
was never informed about the telex message dated 8.11.1994 sent by the HSBC. If the complainant was informed about it, it
would have removed the discrepancies within the time. Thereafter, the HSBC sent another telex on
15.11.1994 to SBI stating that it had not received reply to the earlier telex
dated 8.11.1994 and in the absence of the reply, the documents would be
returned and on 19.11.1994, the documents were returned by the issuing bank. It
is, therefore, contended that there is deficiency in service by the SBI on the
following counts: Hence,
it has been prayed in
the complaint that the SBI be ordered to pay a sum of
Rs.44,47,140/- with interest at the rate of 21% from 28.10.1994 till
realization. CONTENTIONS
OF 
THE OPP.PARTY : (S.B.I.): It
is contended that as M/s.Condea is non-existent or
has vanished and hence the HSBC has repudiated its liability in spite of
strenuous efforts by the
SBI to help the complainant. The role of SBI in the entire transaction, as a negotiating bank, was
quite limited, i.e., to collect money on behalf of the complainant on the basis
of the L.C. and to forward the documents. It
is pointed out that the complainant is enjoying credit with the SBI branch and
when the complainant enters into a contract with the foreign buyers for
export of the goods manufactured by the complainant, it discounts export bills
drawn on the foreign buyers on shipment of goods for liquidating the export
purchase credit. It is the say of the
SBI that the complainants export purchase credit liabilities are liquidated on
receipt and application of export proceeds on negotiations of the export
bills. The banks liability persists
till realization of export bills in terms of covenants governing the advances
granted to the complainant. On
that basis, the complainant made a request to the bank by letter dated
26.10.1994 for negotiating the documents pertaining to export of goods at China. With the said letter, the
complainant enclosed the following documents : Packing list/weight memo. 4.                                       
Certificate of analysis. 5.                                       
Airway bill vide No.
BS BOM/9494007dated 21.10.1994. 6.                                       
Certified true copy of beneficiarys
fax to applicant. 7.                                       
Beneficiarys certificates. 8.                                       
Certificate of origin. 9.                                       
Insurance policy. 10.                                  
Duplicate copy of GR vide No. AG-435428 dated 14.10.1994. 11.                                  
Original L/C. 

 

  

 

 It
is pointed out that by Annexure-OP/2, the complainant requested the Bank to
negotiate the documents and credit their proceeds against the packing credit
facilities enjoyed by the complainant under its sub-limit in Shivasagar Estate Branch of the Bank. The Bank submited
that the request of the complainant to the Bank was merely: It
is also contended that it was not proposed by the complainant to the Bank,
directly or indirectly, that the Bank should ensure that there was no
discrepancy between the complainants own documents mentioned above and the
letter of credit issued by the HSBC. The
complainant also did not propose to the Bank that the Bank should bear the
responsibility for the amount covered by the letter of credit to the
complainant, if HSBC dishonoured its obligations
under the letter of credit. Lastly, the
complainant did not propose to the Bank that the bank should bear the
responsibility for recovering the price payable by Condea
for the sale of the goods. Such
proposals were not made in Annexure OP/2 and were never accepted by the
Bank. They would be contrary to the
basic concept of the role of a negotiating bank in such transactions of letters
of credit. The
SBI has also pointed out Annexure-OP/3 which contains undertaking and indemnity
by the complainant in favour of the bank which is as under: It
is contended that the Bank made it absolutely clear to the complainant that if
the bills were not realized within the normal transit period, the Bank would
not be liable, and the complainant would pay overdue interest to the Bank on
the delayed period and if the documents were not acceptable to HSBC as the
credit opening bank, for any reason, the complainant would repay, on demand,
the bill amount together with interest and charges. It is to be stated that a copy of the
aforesaid letter dated 28.10.1994 is not produced. It
is, therefore, contended that the contract between the complainant and the SBI
was on the basis of letters Annexure-OP/2 and Annexure-OP/4 which constitute
acceptance. It
is next contended that the negotiating bank (SBI) does not and cannot give
assurance to the seller that the documents will be accepted by a credit opening
bank. The negotiating bank is not responsible for pursuing the credit opening
bank or the buyer, opener of the letter of credit. The privity of
contract is between the seller and the opener and also the seller and the
credit opening bank. The negotiating
bank cannot be drawn into the principal transaction of sales and purchase nor
the obligation created by the letter of credit. Thereafter,
it has been pointed out that the SBI forwarded the documents given by the
complainant to HSBC with its letter dated 28.10.1994. In this letter, the full name and postal
address of the Shivsagar Estate Branch of the Bank
were clearly stated. The HSBC was also
instructed to send the payment on the due date, i.e., 15.2.1995. The HSBC was requested to remit the proceeds of
the bill by swift/telex transfer to Shivsagar Estate
Branch of the Bank through the specific channel unmistakably indicated in the
letter, i.e., through Bankers Trust Company in New York and the State Bank of
India, FD, Calcutta for further credit to Shivsagar
Estate Branch of the Bank. The HSBC was also instructed to adhere to the
instructions given at the foot of the letter, including the following which are
reproduced ad verbatim: At
the foot of the letter the telephone number, telex number and fax number of the
Shivsagar Estate Branch of the Bank were given. Thus
clearly the mode of communication of the discrepancies and the address to which
the discrepancies should be communicated were mentioned. HSBC was also categorically informed that the
SBI did not assume any responsibility for the correctness, validity or genuineness
of the documents, nor for description, quality, quantity or delivery of the
goods represented thereby. It
is also submitted by the SBI that a copy of the said letter was sent to the
complainant. Thereafter, on 8.11.1994,
HSBC sent a telex message to the Main Branch of the SBI at Bombay instead of Shivsagar Estate Branch of the
SBI, to the effect that the documents contained the following discrepancies,
which are reproduced ad verbatim: .(d). The Complainant by its letter dated 30.11.94 specifically stated that there was no discrepancy and the alleged
discrepancies pointed out by the HSBC was totally unjustifiable and the documents were as per
the terms of the LC. SBI also by its
letter dated 7.12.1994 written to HSBC, denied any discrepancy and stated as
under: Along
with the said request, an undertaking was given by the complainant to the
effect We hereby undertake to indemnify State Bank of India for negotiations of the documents under the above L.C. (Ann.OP/3) 

 

  

 

 On
that basis, the Shivsagar Estate Branch of the SBI
wrote to the Manager, HSBC, on 28.10.94 and forwarded the bill particulars for
reimbursement instructions. Thereafter,
a telex was sent by the HSBC on 8.11.1994 to the SBIs
 Bombay Main Branch wherein it has been stated that -- Pls relay the following message to your Shivsagar
Estate Branch at Worli (S) P.B. No.16555, Bombay 18 India 

 

       
Your bill ref. N/BE/94/601465 for
USD 141,000.00 drawn under our DC DVW113238 

 

       
Our ref : AUC SB01932950DVW 

 

       
Documents received and found to
contain the following discrepancies : The contract between the complainant and SBI appears to be wholly that
of a collecting agent. Section
14 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 provides that when a promissory
note, bill of exchange or cheque is transferred to any person so as to
constitute the person the holder thereof, the instrument is said to be
negotiated. There is nothing on record
to establish that L.C. was transferred in favour of the SBI. On the contrary, SBI has produced on record
the documents indicating that the complainant has undertaken to indemnify SBI,
in case the L.C. is not accepted. Further,
the LC is not produced on record to establish that it was endorsed in favour of
the SBI. If the LC was endorsed in favour of the SBI then the SBI would have
kept the LC and would not have delivered the same to the Complainant. Sec.48 of
the Negotiable Instrument Act specifically provides that a promissory note,
bill of exchange, or cheque payable to order is negotiable by the holder by endorsement
and delivery thereof. There is nothing on record that the Complainant has
endorsed the LC in favour of the SBI. In
support of his contention, the learned Counsel for the Complainant has relied
upon the decision of the Apex Court in Corporation Bank & Anr. Vs. Navin J. Shah , (2000) 2 SCC 628, wherein the Court has
pointed that if the bills and relevant
documents are accepted by the banker with endorsement in its favour the
banker becomes a purchaser and holder of the L.C.
The relevant discussion is as under: In
the present case, no doubt, the Bank has given credit to the Complainant. But,
that credit was given against the packing credit facility given to the
Complainant by the Bank. That too, after an undertaking given
by the Complainant to the effect that the Complainant would indemnify the bank
(SBI) for negotiation of the documents under the LC. As such, the LC was not transferred or
endorsed in favour of the SBI. Similarly, In Federal Bank Ltd. Vs. V.M.Jog Engineering Ltd.
& Anr. (2001) 1
SCC 663 the Court discussed various aspects and held that transaction between
the Collecting Bank, and the Complinant may partake of a duel nature, i.e. either
Collecting Bank or Agent for collecting the amount and that of holder in due
course. The Court held as under: Legal relation of a negotiating bank vis--vis the issuing bank 

 

60 . The
contract between the issuing banker and the paying or negotiating
(intermediary) banker may partake of a dual nature. The relationship is mainly that of principal and agent , mandator and
mandatory. In order that he may claim reimbursement for any payment he
makes under the credit or the indemnity of an agent, the intermediary banker
must obey strictly, the instructions he receives, for by acting on them, he
accepts them and thus enters into contractual relations with the issuing bank.
The instructions may take the form of an authority either to pay against
documents or drafts accompanied by document, or to negotiate drafts drawn
either on the issuing banker or on the buyer. The authority may be accompanied
by instructions to the intermediary banker to confirm the credit, that is, to
place himself in binding contractual relationship with
the beneficiary. There is ordinarily no privity
between the intermediary banker and the buyer. But the intermediary banker,
though initially the agent of the issuing bank, may also act as principal in
relation to him. ( Pagets
Law of Banking , 9th Edn., 1982, pp.   543-44.) 

 

  

 

 In
the present case, the SBI is merely a collecting Bank or the agent of the
Complainant for recovering the amount from issuing Bank, HSBC. Further,
even the Complainant did not raise any objection to the reversal of the credit, as the Complainant
was aware that the SBI had the full right to do, because (a) the bills were not
realized within the normal transit period and (b) documents were not acceptable
to the HSBC, the credit opening Bank as stipulated in Ex. OP/4. By a letter
dated 29.3.1995 the Complainant simply made an appeal to the SBI to once again
permit credit to the Complainant in the following words: Presentation of documents
must be made to the Issuing Bank or the Confirming Bank, if any or any other
Nominated Bank. (ii) Negotiation means the giving of value for
Draft(s) and/or document(s) by the bank authorized to negotiate. Mere examination of the documents without
giving of value does not constitute a negotiation. (c) Unless the nominated bank is the confirming bank, nomination by
the issuing bank does not constitute any undertaking by the nominated bank to
pay, to incur a deferred payment undertaking, to accept Draft(s), or to
negotiate. Except where expressly agreed
to by the Nominated Bank and so
communicated to the Beneficiary, the Nominated Banks receipt of and/or
examination and/or forwarding of the documents does not make the bank liable to
pay, to incur a deferred payment undertaking, to accept Draft(s), or to
negotiate. (d) By nominating another bank, or by allowing for negotiation by any
bank, or by authorizing or requesting another bank to add its confirmation the
Issuing Bank authorizes such bank to pay, accept Draft(s) or negotiate as the
may be against documents which appear on their face to be in compliance with
the terms and conditions of the Credit and undertakes to reimburse such
bank in accordance with the provisions of these articles. Article 13: Standard of
examination of documents: Documents which appear on their face to be inconsistent with one another will
be considered as not appearing on their face to be in compliance with the terms
and conditions of the credit. Documents
not stipulated in the credit will not be examined by banks. If they receive
such documents, they shall return them to the presenter or pass them on without
responsibility. (b) The
Issuing Bank, the Confirming Bank, if any, or a Nominated Bank acting on their
behalf, shall each have a reasonable time, not to exceed seven
banking days following the day of receipt of the documents, to examine
the documents and determine whether to take up or refuse the documents and
to inform the party from which it received the documents accordingly. (c) If
a credit contains conditions without stating the document(s) to be presented in compliance
therewith, banks will deem such conditions as not stated and will disregard
them. Article 14- Discrepant Document and Notice: On
the basis of the said Articles, learned Counsel for the Complainant submitted
that in the present case the SBI can be held as a bank authorized by the
issuing bank to negotiate. He further submitted that as soon as the HSBC has pointed
out discrepancies the SBI was required to act promptly and rectify the
discrepancies within seven (7) days. That has not been done by the SBI. Hence,
there is deficiency in service by the SBI. As
against this, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the SBI
has pointed out that SBI is neither issuing Bank, Confirming
Bank nor Nominated Bank acting on behalf
of the issuing Bank. He, therefore,
submitted that for SBI there is no time limit prescribed under the UCP. Therefore, the UCP articles have no relevance
in the present case. He further, pointed out that as per Art. 10(b)(ii) negotiation requires giving of the value for the
documents/LC by the Bank authorized to negotiate. In the present case, that has
not been done. The SBI has merely
forwarded documents to the HSBC without giving value of the LC, and, therefore,
it does not constitute negotiation as contemplated under the UCP. We
agree with the said submission. Art.10 makes it clear that negotiations for the
purpose of UCP means giving of value for documents/LC by the bank authorized to
negotiate. In addition, it makes clear that mere examination of the documents
without giving value does not constitute negotiation. In the present
case, no doubt, the amount was given, but it was given towards credit facility
which was given to the Complainant by the Bank. The SBI is neither
issuing bank, confirming bank or nominated bank, nor authorized bank to make
payment, and, therefore, Art. 13(b) which provides for prompt action
would not be applicable. Hence, in the
present case, the UCP has no bearing, as no claim is made against the HSBC or
confirming bank or nominated bank. Further,
in any case, it is admitted by the Complainant and the SBI that there were no
discrepancies as alleged by the HSBC. In this view of the matter, it was the
duty of the issuing bank, HSBC to pay the amount as per Art. 16(b) which
provides that refusal by the issuing bank to pay must be on the documents
alone as appears on the their face to be inconsistent
with the terms and conditions of the credit.
[ Re. Federal Bank Vs. V.M. Jog (Supra )]. However, that question is not required to be discussed further, because HSBC is
not party to the present proceedings. Further, from the discussion made in the order passed in Complaint No.
196 of 1995 filed by the Complainant against the consignee and its agent, it is
apparent that there was deficiency in service by the carrier in handing over
the goods to the consignee or its agent without the original Air waybills or
the documents. In that complaint it is
pointed out by the Complainant that the carrier committed fraud. That question
is not required to be discussed here. That complaint is allowed and we have
directed the carrier and the agent to reimburse the Complainant for the loss
suffered by it. Delay in communication
on the part of the SBI: The
question would be, whether for this delay in sending communication to the
Complainant, SBI is liable to pay the entire amount lost by the
Complainant? In
our view, the
contention of the Complainant cannot be accepted. Delay was due to
intentional or unintentional
mistake of HSBC, in sending telex message at main Branch of the SBI even
though it was specifically mentioned by the SBI in its communication dated 28.10.94 that
all the proceeds of LC be sent to
the Shivsagar Estate Branch of the SBI. Secondly,
the telegram was required to be sent by HSBC to the Shivsagar
Estate Branch. Thirdly, delay in
sending the reply has
not prejudiced the case of the
Complainant because the goods were already delivered on 30th or 31st October, 1994 to the consignee. Therefore,
that consignee was not prepared to accept the documents on alleged ground of
discrepancies which was an excuse made out by the HSBC. Thereafter,
the SBI branch and the Complainants sent various communications to the HSBC for
honouring the LC. But, that was not done, and the SBI
failed to convince the HSBC to honour the LC. Therefore, as stated above, the SBI is not
liable to pay the entire amount. However,
there was delay in communicating the alleged discrepancies to the Complainant
by the Shiv Sagar Brnach of the SBI. The Complainant was informed only on 29th November, 1994 and thereafter the Complainant wrote letter to the HSBC on 30th November, 1994 pointing out that there were no discrepancies. That was not accepted by
the HSBC even though the due date for payment as per the LC was 15th February, 1995. Therefore. It is
apparent that the alleged discrepancies were mere excuse in not honouring the LC. However, deficiency
in service on
the part of the SBI for delay in
communicating to the Complainant with regard to receipt of the letters
dated 8.11.1994 and 15.11.1994 and in not dealing with the documents promptly,
SBI is required to pay compensation. In
the facts of the present case, it would be just and reasonable to direct the
SBI to pay the amount of Rs.1,17,212/- which it has
received as interest from the Complainant. In
the result the complaint is allowed partly. The SBI is directed to pay the sum
of Rs.1,17,212/- to the Complainant with interest at
the rate of 9% p.a. from the date of the complaint, namely, 7.12.1995 till the
date of payment. There shall be no order as to costs. Sd/- .J.

 

( M.B.SHAH ) 

 

PRESIDENT 

 

  

 

Sd/- (
P.D.SHENOY ) 

 MEMBER