The petition under Article 226 of the Constitution has been filed in order to assail the legality of an order dated 4 June 2014 passed by the Reserve Bank of India under section 35-A of the Banking Regulation Act, 19491. A challenge has also been made to a subsequent order that was passed by the Executive Director of the Bank on 1 July 2014 on the objections submitted by the Bank. In consequence, a mandamus is sought to the effect that the petitioner should be permitted to withdraw the money deposited in its current account and to undertake normal banking activities. The seventh respondent, Indian Mercantile Co-operative Bank Limited, is a primary Urban Co-operative Society registered under the U.P. Co-operative Societies Act, 1965 and has been granted a banking licence by the Reserve Bank. It is stated that the seventh respondent is a primary co-operative bank within the meaning of section 56(ccv) of the Act. The petitioner had opened a current account in the bank through which its business transactions were conducted. On 4 June 2014, the Reserve Bank issued directions in exercise of the powers conferred by section 35-A of the Act. The directions prohibit the seventh respondent, without the prior approval in writing of the Reserve Bank, from granting or renewing any loans or advances, making any investment, incurring any liability including borrowal of funds and acceptance of fresh deposits and disbursement of any payment in discharge of its liabilities, obligations or otherwise. This is subject to the condition that a sum not exceeding one thousand rupees, out of the total balance in every savings account or current account or any other deposit account by whatever name called, may be allowed to be withdrawn by a depositor provided that wherever a depositor has a liability to the bank in any manner, the amount may be adjusted first to the relevant borrowal account. Certain other exceptions have been stipulated which are not material for the purpose of these proceedings. On 16 June 2014, a circular has been issued by the Reserve Bank, providing for certain exceptional situations in which withdrawal of deposits would be permitted, subject to the recommendations of the Screening Committee and the approval of the Administrator for onwards submission to the Reserve Bank. The guidelines which have been framed in that regard provide as follows:- The direction that was issued by the Reserve Bank under section 35-A was challenged before a Division Bench of this Court at Lucknow in a batch of petitions. By an order dated 19 June 2014, the Division Bench permitted the depositors to approach the Reserve Bank for withdrawal of their deposits in accordance with the guideline dated 16 June 2014. In the meantime, the Reserve Bank was directed to decide objections to the direction under section 35-A and to pass a reasoned and speaking order thereon within a period of ten days. In pursuance of the order passed by the Division Bench, the Executive Director of the bank has issued the impugned order dated 1 July 2014. The order specifically refers to the financial position of the seventh respondent which led to the issuance of the direction under section 35-A . The order states that an inspection of the bank was carried out with reference to its financial position as on 31 March 2007 which revealed that the bank had violated the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank on unsecured advances and did not report correctly the high value cash transactions. Subsequently, a scrutiny in April 2008 revealed major irregularities in the advances portfolio at the main branch of the bank committed by the management in a fraudulent manner. It was also found that sanctions were granted to fictitious and unsecured advances which were not in adherence to KYC guidelines. The inspection conducted with reference to the financial position as on 31 March 2008 revealed that the bank had not taken effective steps to comply with the instructions of the Reserve Bank. An inspection with reference to the financial position as on 31 March 2010 revealed understatement of deposit liabilities to the extent of Rs.64 crores. It was observed that the bank had resorted to showing fictitious loans in its books to cover up the loss of Rs.38.50 crores in unauthorised trading in the stock market in 2001-02. The impugned order also reveals the position following the inspection which was conducted with reference to the financial position as on 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2012. The position of the bank indicated in the impugned order is as follows:- Similarly, an inspection as on 31 March 2013 revealed the following the following position of the bank :- The conclusion which has been drawn in the report of the Executive Director finally suggests the following : The impugned order, thus, has come to the conclusion that the irregularities committed by the bank for twelve years without any corrective action had placed the interest of the depositors in jeopardy and the major lapses have been sought to be covered up through doubtful funds transfers to artificially shore up capital which was a matter of regulatory concern and required major supervisory action. The erosion in deposits stood at Rs.21.14% and, hence, it was considered necessary to protect the overall interest of the depositors by placing the bank under directions that were issued under section 35-A . Section 35-A of the Banking Regulation Act provides as follows:- As far back in 1962, a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in Joseph Kuruvilla Vellukunnel Vs. Reserve Bank of India & Ors.2 , dealt with the rationale for the wide powers conferred upon the Reserve Bank to regulate banking companies. Justice M. Hidayatullah (as the learned Chief Justice then was) held thus: The Supreme Court observed as follows: This view was reiterated in Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Reserve Bank of India3 . The Supreme Court observed as follows: In Ganesh Bank of Kurundwad Ltd. & Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors.4 , the Supreme Court held as follows: The same principle was enunciated in a judgment of a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in Bari Doab Bank Ltd. Vs. Union of India & Ors.5 : The Reserve Bank, it is well settled, is an expert statutory body which is vested with control over the banking system. This power is vested in the Reserve Bank of India to foster public interest and to ensure a suitable financial and monetary system. It is well settled that in matters governed by expert determination, the jurisdiction of the Court to interfere in the exercise of the power of judicial review is extremely limited. The Court may interfere where the action which has been taken is wholly extraneous to the object and purpose underlying the conferment of the power or where ex-facie the decision is found to be perverse and contrary to binding statutory norms. The order which has been passed by the Executive Director in the present case, following the objections which were received from the bank, did not consider any matter which was not relevant and germane to the exercise of power under section 35-A . In the exercise of the writ jurisdiction, it would not be open to the Court to substitute this conclusion which has been drawn by the Reserve Bank as an expert statutory body. The Reserve Bank has acted in the interest of the depositors since it is evident that there was a serious financial crisis in respect of the affairs of the bank. Hence, considering the matter from all perspectives, it would not be possible for the Court to issue a direction to the effect that the deposit which has been made by one depositor should be allowed to be withdrawn. Allowing the operation of the current account of the petitioner in the manner as sought, would be completely destructive of the interest of a large body of depositors. The grant of such a relief would not be permissible. Hence, no case for interference is made out. The writ petition is, accordingly, dismissed. There shall be no order as to costs. The Registrar General is directed to remit a copy of this order to the Senior Registrar of the Lucknow Bench to place the same on the file of Misc. Bench No. 4861 of 2014 ( Indian Merchantile Co-operative Bank Ltd. Lucknow Vs. Reserve Bank of India & Ors. ), pending before the Lucknow Bench. Date:18.07.2014
 
SK/AHA
 
 (Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, C.J.)
 

 

 

 
(Dilip Gupta, J.)