Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned AGA. The instant Anticipatory Bail Application has been filed with a prayer to grant an anticipatory bail to the applicant, namely, Amit Soni, in Case Crime No. 279 of 2020 , under Sections 419 , 420 , 406 , 463 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 , 34 , 120-B I.P.C. and section 66-D , 71 and 72 of Information Technology (Amendment Act,2008) , Police Station - Kotwali Nagar, District - Saharanpur. Prior notice of this bail application was served in the office of Government Advocate and as per Chapter XVIII, Rule 18 of the Allahabad High Court Rules and as per direction dated 20.11.2020 of this Court in Criminal Misc. Anticipatory Bail Application U/S 438 Cr.P.C . No. 8072 of 2020, Govind Mishra @ Chhotu Versus State of U.P., hence, this anticipatory bail application is being heard. Grant of further time to the learned A.G.A as per Section 438 (3) Cr.P.C. (U.P. Amendment) is not required. There is allegation in the First Information report that applicant and 15 other persons were involved in some illegal activities. The number of computer ,mobile phone, Adhar Card and other electronic articles were recovered from the applicants. In the First Information Report co-accused Bhanu and Padam have named the applicant as member of their gang. Applicant alongwith other co-accused was involved in online betting, and Paytm fraud. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that it is a case of false implication. Applicant resides at Dubai and his business in the name and style of First Point I.T. Infrastructure .Co-accused Bhanu and Padam are his servants,who have falsely implicated the applicant,. When the police got arrested them the applicant was not in India but he was at Dubai at that time.The investigation is still going on and he will co-operate with the investigation.The applicant has no criminal history to his credit. Applicant has definite apprehension of his arrest by the police. Learned AGA has opposed the prayer for anticipatory bail of the applicant. He has submitted that in view of the seriousness of the allegations made against the applicant, he is not entitled to grant of anticipatory bail. The apprehension of the applicant is not founded on any material on record. Only on the basis of imaginary fear anticipatory bail cannot be granted. After considering the rival submissions this court finds that there is a case registered against the applicant. It cannot be definitely said when the police may apprehend him. After the lodging of FIR the arrest can be made by the police at will. There is no definite period fixed for the police to arrest an accused against whom an FIR has been lodged. The courts have repeatedly held that arrest should be the last option for the police and it should be restricted to those exceptional cases where arresting the accused is imperative or his custodial interrogation is required. Irrational and indiscriminate arrests are gross violation of human rights. In the case ofJoginder Kumar v. State of Uttar Pradesh AIR 1994 SC 1349the Apex Court has referred to the third report of National Police Commission wherein it is mentioned that arrests by the police in India is one of the chief source of corruption in the police. The report suggested that, by and large, nearly 60 percent of the arrests were either unnecessary or unjustified and that such unjustified police action accounted for 43.2 percent of expenditure of the jails. Personal liberty is a very precious fundamental rights and it should be curtailed only when it becomes imperative. According to the peculiar facts and circumstances of the peculiar case the arrest of an accused should be made. Without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case and considering the nature of accusation and his antecedents, the applicant is entitled to be released on anticipatory bail in this case for the limited period considering the exception considered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sushila Aggarwal Vs. State (NCT of Delhi )-2020 SCC Online SC 98. In the event of arrest of the applicant shall be released on anticipatory bail till the cognizance is taken by the court on the police report, if any, under section 173 (2) Cr.P.C. before the competent Court on furnishing a personal bond of Rs.50,000/- with two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the Court concerned with the following conditions:- In default of any of the conditions, the Investigating Officer is at liberty to file appropriate application for cancellation of anticipatory bail granted to the applicant. The Investigating Officer is directed to conclude the investigation of the present case in accordance with law, expeditiously, independently without being prejudiced by any observations made by this Court while considering and deciding the present anticipatory bail application of the applicant. The applicant is directed to produce a copy of this order downloaded from the official website of this Court before the S.S.P./S.P. concerned within ten days from today, who shall ensure the compliance of present order. Order Date :- 12.3.2021
 
Atul kr. sri.