% 09.07.2025 1. This hearing has been done through hybrid mode. 2. The present application under Section 483 read with Section 528 of the
 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 seeks regular bail in case FIR No.
 317/2024, under Sections 342 / 370 / 420 / 204 / 120B of the IPC and Section
 10 / 24 of the Emigration Act, 1983, registered at P.S. Special Cell. 3. The case of the prosecution as per the status report dated 25.02.2025,
 authored by Sh. Manoj Kumar, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cyber
 Crime Unit, IFSO, Special Cell, New Delhi as under: (emphasis supplied) 4. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant submits that the
 latter is also a victim, who was similarly placed with the complainant and only
 on account of fact that he could not gather the courage to go the Indian
 Embassy in Cambodia and get a passport, he has been named as an accused.
 It is further submitted that the applicant was arrested on 24.07.2024, and the
 investigation in the present case stands complete and the chargesheet has been
 filed before the Court of competent jurisdiction. 5. It is pointed out that as per the status report, that one of the grounds to
 oppose the bail application is the fact that the other co-accused persons are
 yet to be arrested and there is a possibility that the applicant may threaten the
 complainant and witnesses and he may also tamper with the evidence. It is
 submitted that this opposition is presumptuous in nature as these possibilities

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 10/07/2025 at 22:01:25
 would always remain and in such a situation, the applicant would never be
 able to get the bail as per the case of prosecution. It is submitted that the
 principle of law is that the bail is the rule and the jail is an exception and,
 therefore, keeping in view the custody period of the present applicant, he
 should be released on bail. 6. Per contra, learned APP for the State assisted by learned counsel for
 the complainant submits that the present applicant was stated to be the Human
 Resources ('HR') personnel of the company, which recruited the
 complainants and the other victims in the present. An additional status report
 authored by Mr. Manoj Kumar, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cyber
 Crime Unit, IFSO, Special Cell, New Delhi has been handed up in Court today
 and the same is taken on record. From the said status report, it is pointed out
 that complainant-Ashwani Kumar had travelled from Delhi to Dubai on
 27.03.2024 and was received by the present applicant after which he was
 employed in a fake investment centre in Dubai. It is also recorded therein that
 on 02.05.2024, the complainant had reached Cambodia along with the present
 applicant. It is pointed out in the FIR that the complainant travelled from
 Dubai to Thailand, and then to Cambodia by road, and that the passports of
 the complainant and other victims were taken at the time when they crossed
 the border into Cambodia and were kept under continuous surveillance
 through guards and were not allowed to leave the complex without their
 permission. It is further submitted that the present applicant, thereafter, came
 back to India from Cambodia on 30.06.2024 and the complainant in the
 present case managed to escape from the confines of the concerned people
 and reached Delhi on 26.07.2024 through an Emergency Passport. 7. Learned APP for the State further submits that the applicant is being

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 10/07/2025 at 22:01:25
 charged for offence under Section 370(3) of the IPC, whereby, the minimum
 punishment is of rigorous imprisonment for 10 years which may extend to
 imprisonment for life. It is submitted that the complainant and the other
 victims are under genuine apprehension of threats being extended to them
 during the course of the trial. In view of the above, it is submitted that the
 present application may not be allowed. 8. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the records. 9. The complainant in the FIR has given a categoric description of the
 facts relating to the present applicant. It is stated in the FIR, that the present
 applicant got the complainant a job of Data Entry in Dubai and on his reaching
 Dubai, he was given 7 days training in a call centre run by a Chinese national
 and, thereafter, they were directed not to leave the campus or to talk any
 person outside from the campus without the permission of employer. It is
 alleged that the complainant realised that the said call centre was running for
 cyber frauds targeting Indian Nationals by calling them from mobile numbers
 belonging to the United Kingdom and when they hesitated in doing so, they
 were thrashed and threatened. It is alleged that in the meanwhile, while there
 were some raids on the said call centre, and they were threatened that in case
 they went out, they would be arrested in Dubai. It is further stated that the
 complainant was then moved from Dubai to Bangkok, Thailand and,
 thereafter, they were taken on company's vehicle for 6 hours near the
 Cambodian border, where their passports were taken, which were never
 returned to them. As per the investigation, the present applicant was also
 present at the relevant time while the aforesaid complainant was in Dubai till
 he travelled to Cambodia. It is further recorded that the complainants have
 received several threatening messages to harm their family members. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 10/07/2025 at 22:01:25 10. The aforesaid complaint mentions the cases of the other victims, who
 were friends of the complainant and have been cited as the witnesses in the
 chargesheet. On a pointed query from learned counsel for the applicant as to
 the status of the latter in the company recruiting the complainant and other
 victims, it is submitted that he was also a victim without giving any further
 details as to how and in which capacity he was associated with the said
 company to say that he was also a victim. 11. The matter is at the stage of committal before the learned Trial Court.
 The main complainant and other victims are yet to be examined. In the present
 case, it has prima facie come on record that the applicant was present all along
 when the complainant and the other victims were in Dubai as well as when
 they were taken to Cambodia and kept in confinement. In these circumstances,
 this Court is of the considered opinion that the complainant and other victims
 be examined before the learned Trial Court before granting bail to the
 applicant. 12. In the aforesaid circumstances, the present application is dismissed at
 this stage and disposed of along with all pending application(s). 13. Needless to state, nothing mentioned hereinabove is an opinion on the
 merits of the case and any observations made are only for the purpose of the
 present bail application. 14. Copy of the order be sent to the concerned Jail Superintendent for
 necessary information and compliance. 15. Order be uploaded on the website of this court forthwith. AMIT SHARMA, J
 JULY 9, 2025/bsr/sc

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 10/07/2025 at 22:01:25