[1.0] RULE. Learned APP waives service of rule for the respondent-State. [2.0] The present successive bail application is filed under Section 483 of
 the Bharatiya Nyaya Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short "BNSS") for regular
 bail in connection with FIR being C.R. No. 11210008241548 of 2024
 registered with Sarthana Police Station, Surat, for the offence under
 Sections 318 (2), 319(2), 61(2)(b), 336(3), 338, 340 and 54 of BNS. [3.0] Learned advocate appearing on behalf of the applicant submits that
 applicant is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the offence.
 Investigation is over and chargesheet has been filed. The applicant is
 arrested on 03.10.2024. Allegation against the applicant is that, the
 applicant along with co-accused have created fake website in the name of
 Flipcart and also prepared QR code and facebook and advertised the
 household and other items at a cheaper rate and thereby, obtained several
 orders from the customers and thereby, pocketed huge amount and not
 delivered or provided the goods. He has submitted that though the
 allegation against the applicant is that, he has procured passbooks, cheque
 books and other valuable securities of different people and used the
 dummy accounts for the commission of offence, but he has not received any Page 1 of 5 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Thu Feb 27 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Feb 27 22:40:30 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/3300/2025 ORDER DATED: 27/02/2025

 undefined

 amount. The applicant has no past antecedent. In such circumstances, the
 applicant may be enlarged on regular bail by imposing suitable conditions. [4.0] Learned APP appearing on behalf of the respondent-State has
 opposed the present application and submitted that, the applicant is
 involved in large scale conspiracy. The applicant along with co-accused have
 created fake website in the name of Flipcart and also prepared QR code and
 facebook and advertised the household and other items at a cheaper rate
 and thereby, obtained several orders from the customers throughout the
 country and thereby, pocketed huge amount. There was large scale scam of
 Rs.9.45 crore, which is still investigated. Further investigation is going on.
 The applicant along with accused No.1, who happens to be brother in law of
 the applicant, had approached the office of CA for getting GST certificate
 and therefore, prima facie involvement of the applicant is there. Other
 accused are yet to be arrested. If he grants bail, possibility cannot be ruled
 out to tamper with the evidence and indulge in such type of activities in
 future. Considering the same, she prays not to allow application. [5.0] While granting bail, the Court has to consider the involvement of the
 accused in the alleged offence, the jurisdiction to grant bail has to be
 exercised on the basis of the well settled principles having regard to the
 facts and circumstances of each case and the following factors are to be
 taken into consideration while considering an application for bail: (i) the
 nature of accusation and the severity of the punishment and the nature of
 the materials relied upon by the prosecution; (ii) reasonable apprehension
 of tampering with the witnesses and threat to the complainant or the
 witnesses; (iii) reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the
 accused at the time of trial or the likelihood of his abscondence; (iv)
 character behaviour and standing of the accused and the circumstances
 which are peculiar to the accused; (v) larger interest of the public or the
 State and similar other considerations are required to be considered. [6.0] I have heard the learned advocates appearing on behalf of the
 respective parties and perused the investigation papers. Following aspects
 have been considered: [6.1] In view of the law laid down in the cases of ( i) Amar Sadhuram
 Mulchandani Vs. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024, ( ii) Mohd. Muslim @
 Hussain Vs. State (NCT of Delhi ), reported in AIR 2023 SC 1648 and (iii)
 Union of India Vs. Najeeb, reported in 2021 (3) SCC 713, as well as
 considering other aspects like long incarceration period of the applicant,
 gravity of offence and as trial is prolonged since long, bail can be granted to
 the accused as speedy trial is right of the accused under Article 21 of the
 Constitution of India. Hence, present application deserves consideration. [7.0] This Court has also taken into consideration the law laid down by the
 Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Sanjay Chandra vs. Central Bureau of
 Investigation reported in [2012]1 SCC 40 as well as in the case of Gudikanti Narasimhulu And Ors vs. Public Prosecutor, High Court of
 Andhra Pradesh reported in (1978)1 SCC 240. Obviously, the conclusion of
 trial will take time and keeping the accused behind the bars is nothing but
 amounts to pre-trial conviction and therefore, considering the celebrated
 principle of bail jurisprudence is that "bail is a rule and jail is exception" as
 well as the concept of personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the
 Constitution of India, present application deserves consideration. [8.0] In the facts and circumstances of the case and considering the nature
 of the allegations made against the applicant in the FIR, without discussing
 further on merit, prima facie, this Court is of the opinion that this is a fit case
 to exercise the discretion and enlarge the applicant on regular bail. Hence,
 the present application is allowed. The applicant is ordered to be released
 on regular bail in connection with FIR being C.R. No. 11210008241548 of
 2024 registered with Sarthana Police Station, Surat on executing a
 personal bond of Rs.25,000/- (Rupees Twenty-five Thousand only) with one
 local surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court and
 subject to the conditions that he shall; (a) not take undue advantage of liberty or misuse liberty; (b) not act in a manner injurious to the interest of the prosecution &
 shall not obstruct or hamper the police investigation and shall
 not to play mischief with the evidence collected or yet to be
 collected by the police; (c) surrender passport, if any, to the Trial Court within a week; (d) not to leave State of Gujarat without prior permission of the Trial
 Court concerned; (e) mark presence before the concerned police station once in a
 month for a period of six months; residence to the Investigating Officer and also to the Court at
 the time of execution of the bond and shall not change the
 residence/contact number without prior permission of Trial
 Court; [9.0] The authorities will release the applicant only if he is not required in
 connection with any other offence for the time being. If breach of any of the
 above conditions is committed, the Sessions Judge concerned will be free to
 issue warrant or take appropriate action in the matter. [10.0] Bail bond to be executed before the lower Court having jurisdiction
 to try the case. It will be open for the concerned Court to delete, modify
 and/or relax any of the above conditions, in accordance with law. [11.0] At the trial, the trial Court shall not be influenced by the observations
 of preliminary nature qua the evidence at this stage made by this Court
 while enlarging the applicant on bail. [12.0] Rule is made absolute to the aforesaid extent. Direct service is
 permitted. (HASMUKH D. SUTHAR,J)

 SUCHIT Page 5 of 5 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Thu Feb 27 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Feb 27 22:40:30 IST 2025