This writ petition, filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of
India, assails the action of the 1st Respondent-Canara Bank in not making
payment of the remaining amount under the Bank Guarantee to a tune of 
Rs.54,56,750/- as illegal, arbitrary and against the terms of the Bank
Guarantee No.2657BG:130 2003 dated 8.9.2003 and the writ petition 
further seeks a direction to 1st respondent-Bank to honour the Bank
Guarantee No: 2657BG:130 2003 towards balance amount of 
Rs.54,56,750/. 2. The pleaded case of the Petitioners is as under: 3. The 2nd respondent instituted a suit, O.S.No.78 of 2004, before
the III Additional Chief Judge, City Civil Court, Hyderabad on 17.7.2006
for a declaration that the payment of Rs.45,43,250/- made to the
petitioners as illegal and void and for permanent injunction to restrain
the 1st respondent from paying the balance of Rs.54,56,750/- in respect
of the Bank Guarantee No.2657 BG: 130 2003 dated 8.9.2003 and for 
refund of the amount of Rs.45,43,250/-, already paid to 4th respondent.
The said suit was partly decreed, declaring the payment made in favour
of 4th respondent as illegal with a direction to the 2nd respondent to
refund the amount and as against the said decree, an appeal in
C.C.C.A.No.212 of 2006 has been preferred before this Court and the
same is pending. 4. Contending that since the relief of injunction to restrain the
payment of balance amount to the petitioners was rejected and as there
is no injunction against the Bank from making the balance amount, the
withholding of the balance is arbitrary, discriminatory and violative of Articles 14 , 19(1) & (2) and 300-A of the Constitution of India, the
present writ petition came to be filed. This Court issued rule-nisi on
30.10.2006. Counter affidavits have been filed, denying the averments
made in the writ affidavit and in the direction of justifying the impugned
action. 5. Submissions/contentions of learned counsel for petitioners,
Sri M.V.Suresh 

5.1. The impugned action of the 2nd respondent in not paying the
balance amount of Rs.54,56,750/- is neither sustainable nor tenable in
the eye of law. 5.2 In the absence of any order of injunction, the 1st respondent is not
justified in refusing to pay the balance of the amount and the said action
is violative of Articles 14 , 19 and 300A of the constitution of India. 5.3 In O.S.No.78 of 2004, the 2nd respondent sought only the relief
regarding the payment made by 1st respondent and did not seek the 
relief regarding payment of balance amount and the relief of injunction
to restrain the payment of balance amount was rejected, as such the
impugned action is untenable. 5.4 The impugned action is contrary to the well established norms,
circulars, guidelines issued by the RBI/IBA from time to time with regard
to the invocation of the Performance Guarantee and the law laid down by
the Apex Court. 5.5 Without any authority of law and in an arbitrary and high handed
manner, instead of making full payment, the 1st respondent permitted
the petitioners to encash only part of the amount. 5.6. The plea of the respondents with regard to non-maintainability is
not tenable as the very action of the 1st respondent transgresses the
fundamental rights of the petitioners as enshrined under Chapter III of
the Constitution of India. To bolster his submissions and contentions,
the learned counsel takes the support of the following judgments;
(1) M/s Mallikharjuna Chemicals, Piduguralla & others v.
The Chief Marketing & Movements, Singareni Collieries
Ltd., Hyderabad & others
(2) Bank of India v. Nangia Construction (India) Pvt.Ltd., &
Others 
(3) Babubhai Muljibhai Patel v. Nandlal Khodidas Barot and
others
(4) ABL International Ltd. and another v. Export Credit
Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. and another
(5) Hyderabad Urban Development Authority, 
reconstituted as Hyderabad Metropolitan Development 
Authority, Secunderabad and another v. M/s IBC 
Knowledge Park Pvt. Ltd., rep. by its Managing Director
Yunus Zia and others 
(6) Himadri Chemicals Industries Ltd. v. Coal Tar Refining
Co. of Andhra Pradesh, rep. by its Secretary, Revenue
Department, Hyderabad 
(9) Edward Owen Engineering Ltd. v. Barclays Bank 
International Ltd
( 10) United Commercial Bank v. Bank of India and others ( 11) U.P. Cooperative Federation Ltd. v. Singh Consultants
and Engineers (P) Ltd . 6. Submissions/contentions of the learned Standing Counsel for the
1st Respondent Bank and the learned counsel for 2nd respondent 

6.1 The present case is virtually a money suit and the Bank Guarantee
is an autonomous contract and the parties are governed by the terms of
the contract and for enforcing the same, the present writ petition filed
under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is not maintainable and the
issue for consideration is not amenable for jurisdiction of this Court and
the proper remedy for the petitioners is a regular Civil Suit. 6.2 For enforcement of monetary claims, writ petition is not the proper
remedy. 6.3 The petitioners are not entitled for the balance amount of Bank
Guarantee as they were not the openers of the Second LC as per clause 
7 of the Bank Guarantee and the opener of the second LC is M/s
Wareenby Ltd. UK and it did not invoke the Bank Guarantee and the 
Deponent of the writ affidavit clearly stated in the suit as D.W.1. that the
person who opened the LC becomes the beneficiary under the Bank 
Guarantee. 6.4 In view of pendency of the civil dispute in C.C.C.A.No.212 of 2006
before this Court, the petitioners herein cannot maintain the present
parallel proceedings in the form of writ petition. 6.5 Having suffered a decree passed by the Civil Court in O.S.No.78 of
2004, it is not open for the petitioners to file the Present writ petition. In support of their contentions and submissions, the learned Advocates
for the Respondents relied on the following judgments;
(1) Canara Bank, Secunderabad v. Power Grid Corporation of 
India Ltd., New Delhi and others
( 2) Kerala State Electricity Board and another v. Kurien
E.Kalathil and others ( 3) Indian Bank v. Godhra Nagrik Cooperative Credit Society
Ltd and another (4) Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment
Corporation and another v. Diamond & Gem Development 
Corporation Limited and another . 7. In the light of the above pleadings, submissions and contentions,
now the issue which this Court is called upon to answer are; Whether the present writ petition is maintainable under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and whether the
petitioners are entitled for any relief from this Court ? 8. The material available before this Court manifestly reveals that the
2nd respondent herein instituted O.S.No.78 of 2004 against the 1st
respondent and the petitioners herein on the file of the Court of the III
Additional Chief Judge, City Civil Court, Hyderabad, seeking the following
reliefs: 11. While dealing with Issue Nos.1 & 2 the learned Chief Judge, in
O.S.No.78 of 2004, held as follows : 12. While dealing with Issue No.3, the learned Chief Judge held as
under: 13. A perusal of the finding on Issue No.3, as extracted, cannot be
construed as a finding adverse to the plaintiff nor it can be construed or
understood as a finding in favour of the defendants/petitioners herein.
The learned Chief Judge recorded the said finding, taking into
consideration the factum of refusal of payment of balance amount by the
1st respondent Bank. Significant to note is that the defendants 2 and 3,
who are the petitioners herein preferred C.C.C.A.No.212 of 2006 against
the said decree and this Court on 9.10.2006 in C.C.C.A.M.P.No.574 of
2006 passed the following order: 14. The said Appeal is pending consideration before this Court and
while the situation being so, the petitioners herein filed the present writ
petition on 26.10.2006, seeking a direction for payment of the balance
amount. It is an admitted fact that the very payment of Rs.45,43,250/-
was found erroneous and faulty by the learned Chief Judge in O.S.No.78
of 2004, as such there is absolutely no justification on the part of the
petitioners in asking for the balance amount pending the Appeal Suit
before this Court. 15. Coming to the Judgments cited by the Counsel for the Petitioners. (1) In M/s Mallikharjuna Chemicals, Piduguralla v. The Chief Marketing
& Movements, Singareni Collieries Ltd., Hyderabad (1 supra), this Court
at paragraph 29, held as under: In K.N. Guruswamy v. State of Mysore1 this Court held: (AIR pp.
595-96, para 20) 20. The next question is whether the appellant can complain of
this by way of a writ. In our opinion, he could have done so in an
ordinary case. The appellant is interested in these contracts and has
a right under the laws of the State to receive the same treatment
and be given the same chance as anybody else. We would therefore in the ordinary course have given the
appellant the writ he seeks. But, owing to the time which this matter
has taken to reach us (a consequence for which the appellant is in
no way to blame, for he has done all he could to have an early
hearing), there is barely a fortnight of the contract left to go. A
writ would therefore be ineffective and as it is not our practice to
issue meaningless writs we must dismiss this appeal and leave the
appellant content with an enunciation of the law. 10. It is clear from the above observations of this Court in the
said case, though a writ was not issued on the facts of that case,
this Court has held that on a given set of facts if a State acts in an
arbitrary manner even in a matter of contract, an aggrieved party
can approach the court by way of writ under Article 226 of the
Constitution and the court depending on facts of the said case is
empowered to grant the relief. This judgment in K.N. Guruswamy v.
State of Mysore1 was followed subsequently by this Court in the
case of D.F.O. v. Ram Sanehi Singh2 wherein this Court held: (SCC
p. 865, para 4)
 By that order he has deprived the respondent of a valuable
right. We are unable to hold that merely because the source of the
right which the respondent claims was initially in a contract, for
obtaining relief against any arbitrary and unlawful action on the part
of a public authority he must resort to a suit and not to a petition by
way of a writ. In view of the judgment of this Court in K.N.
Guruswamy case1 there can be no doubt that the petition was 
maintainable, even if the right to relief arose out of an alleged
breach of contract, where the action challenged was of a public
authority invested with statutory power. (emphasis supplied) 16. A perusal of this judgment though shows that a writ petition
involving serious disputed questions of facts which requires
consideration of evidence which is not on record, will not normally
be entertained by a court in the exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. This decision again, in our
opinion, does not lay down an absolute rule that in all cases
involving disputed questions of fact the parties should be relegated
to a civil suit. In this view of ours, we are supported by a judgment
of this Court in the case of Gunwant Kaur v. Municipal Committee,
Bhatinda8 where dealing with such a situation of disputed questions
of fact in a writ petition this Court held: (SCC p. 774, paras 14-16) 14. The High Court observed that they will not determine
disputed question of fact in a writ petition. But what facts were in
dispute and what were admitted could only be determined after an
affidavit-in-reply was filed by the State. The High Court, however,
proceeded to dismiss the petition in limine. The High Court is not
deprived of its jurisdiction to entertain a petition under Article 226 merely because in considering the petitioners right to relief
questions of fact may fall to be determined. In a petition under Article 226 the High Court has jurisdiction to try issues both of fact
and law. Exercise of the jurisdiction is, it is true, discretionary, but
the discretion must be exercised on sound judicial principles. When
the petition raises questions of fact of a complex nature, which may
for their determination require oral evidence to be taken, and on
that account the High Court is of the view that the dispute may not
 appropriately be tried in a writ petition, the High Court may decline
to try a petition. Rejection of a petition in limine will normally be
justified, where the High Court is of the view that the petition is
frivolous or because of the nature of the claim made dispute sought
to be agitated, or that the petition against the party against whom
relief is claimed is not maintainable or that the dispute raised
thereby is such that it would be inappropriate to try it in the writ
jurisdiction, or for analogous reasons. 15. From the averments made in the petition filed by the
appellants it is clear that in proof of a large number of allegations
the appellants relied upon documentary evidence and the only
matter in respect of which conflict of facts may possibly arise related
to the due publication of the notification under Section 4 by the
Collector. 16. In the present case, in our judgment, the High Court was
not justified in dismissing the petition on the ground that it will not
determine disputed question of fact. The High Court has jurisdiction
to determine questions of fact, even if they are in dispute and the
present, in our judgment, is a case in which in the interests of both
the parties the High Court should have entertained the petition and
called for an affidavit-in-reply from the respondents, and should
have proceeded to try the petition instead of relegating the
appellants to a separate suit. 17. The above judgment of Gunwant Kaur8 finds support from
another judgment of this Court in the case of Century Spg. and Mfg.
Co. Ltd. v. Ulhasnagar Municipal Council9 wherein this Court held: 28. However, while entertaining an objection as to the
maintainability of a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution
of India, the court should bear in mind the fact that the power to
issue prerogative writs under Article 226 of the Constitution is
plenary in nature and is not limited by any other provisions of the
Constitution. The High Court having regard to the facts of the case,
has a discretion to entertain or not to entertain a writ petition. The
Court has imposed upon itself certain restrictions in the exercise of
this power. (See Whirlpool Corpn. v. Registrar of Trade Marks15 .)
And this plenary right of the High Court to issue a prerogative writ
will not normally be exercised by the Court to the exclusion of other
available remedies unless such action of the State or its
instrumentality is arbitrary and unreasonable so as to violate the
constitutional mandate of Article 14 or for other valid and legitimate
reasons, for which the Court thinks it necessary to exercise the said
jurisdiction. 53. From the above, it is clear that when an instrumentality of
the State acts contrary to public good and public interest, unfairly,
unjustly and unreasonably, in its contractual, constitutional or
statutory obligations, it really acts contrary to the constitutional
guarantee found in Article 14 of the Constitution. Thus if we apply
the above principle of applicability of Article 14 to the facts of this
case, then we notice that the first respondent being an
instrumentality of the State and a monopoly body had to be
approached by the appellants by compulsion to cover its export risk.
The policy of insurance covering the risk of the appellants was
issued by the first respondent after seeking all required information
and after receiving huge sums of money as premium exceeding Rs 
16 lakhs. On facts we have found that the terms of the policy do not
give room to any ambiguity as to the risk covered by the first
respondent. We are also of the considered opinion that the liability
of the first respondent under the policy arose when the default of
the exporter occurred and thereafter when the Kazakhstan
Government failed to fulfil its guarantee. There is no allegation that
the contracts in question were obtained either by fraud or by
misrepresentation. In such factual situation, we are of the opinion,
the facts of this case do not and should not inhibit the High Court or
this Court from granting the relief sought for by the petitioner. (5) In Hyderabad Urban Development Authority, reconstituted as
Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority, Secunderabad v. M/s 
IBC Knowledge Park Pvt. Ltd., rep. by its Managing Director Yunus Zia (5
supra), the Division Bench of this Court at paragraphs 48, 50 and 53,
held as under: However, where there is an element of arbitrariness or
unreasonableness, illegality, irrationality or procedural impropriety in
the action of state authorities offending Article 14 of the
Constitution of India, even in respect of a dispute arising out of a
private contract, the Court, in exercise of its power of judicial review
under Article 226 , can entertain the matter and grant relief as per
law. Thus, though judicial review in matters of contractual obligations is
permissible, but such review must be within the permissible limits
and in public interest and in accordance with the principles laid
down by the Supreme Court. It must be intended to prevent
arbitrariness or favoritism and it must be exercised in the larger
public interest. It depends upon the facts and circumstances of each
case. In cases where there is an element of arbitrariness, illegality
or irrationality in the action of the State or its instrumentality the
Court can interfere and grant relief. Here we are concerned with the
contractual obligations of the parties pure and simple and violation
of the same by the parties. Therefore, the Tata Cellular case relied
upon by the learned single Judge has no application as the said case
deals with award of contract. In Bareilly Development Authority
case, the Supreme Court categorically held when the State or its
instrumentality enters into ordinary contract with private persons,
parties are governed by terms of the contract and aggrieved party is
not entitled to seek redress under Article 226 for breach of the
contract. In State of Gujarat and Others v. Meghji Pethraj Shah
Charitable Trust and Others: (1994) 3 SCC 552 supra) also it was
held if the matter is governed by a contract or agreement between
the parties, writ petition is not maintainable since it is a public law
remedy and is not available for any private law filed. Since the
parties herein are governed by the terms of the contract pure and
simple the aggrieved party has to seek the relief in appropriate
forum but not by way of judicial review under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India. 50. It is true that an action of state instrumentality even in
contractual matters of private nature is amenable to writ jurisdiction
if it acts unfairly, unjustly and unreasonably as held by the Supreme
Court in ABL International Ltd. case and Tata Cellular case. In the
instant case there is no material to show that the state authorities
had acted unfairly, unjustly or unreasonably. The only contention is
that it had not disclosed about the dispute as to the title of the State
to the property. As already stated, according to the state
instrumentality it has unimpeachable title to the property; therefore,
question of non-disclosure of any material defect does not arise.
Even after the expiry of the time limit, the respondents had enlarged
time for payment of balance sale consideration on two occasions but
the petitioners have not availed of it and even when the
respondents have agreed to refund the amounts paid, the
petitioners have not chosen to furnish the bank guarantee as
requested. Clause (b) of Confirmation-cum-provisional allotment of
terms of and conditions of agreement provide that final allotment
letter will be issued on payment of full sale price. Clause (c) of Initial
Deposit provides that in case of cancellation of allotment for non-
payment of balance sale price as stipulated or for any other reason,
the entire ID amount in full stands forfeited. Clause (e) provides
that any part payments made towards ID and failed pay the balance
sale price within the prescribed time, both EMD and whatever
amount of ID paid is liable for forfeiture. As already stated, the
contract between the parties is a concluded one. Therefore, the
petitioners having failed to fulfil the conditions of the contract
cannot complain arbitrariness or illegality in the action of the
respondents declining to refund the amounts paid and claim refund
in a writ proceeding. 53. Karnataka State Forest Industries Corpn. v. Indian Rocks : v. Sumac International Ltd.1 this Court considered its various earlier
decisions. In this decision, the principle that has been laid down
clearly on the enforcement of a bank guarantee or a letter of credit
is that in respect of a bank guarantee or a letter of credit which is
sought to be encashed by a beneficiary, the bank giving such a
guarantee is bound to honour it as per its terms irrespective of any
dispute raised by its customer. Accordingly this Court held that the
courts should be slow in granting an order of injunction to restrain
the realisation of such a bank guarantee. It has also been held by
this Court in that decision that the existence of any dispute between
the parties to the contract is not a ground to restrain the
enforcement of bank guarantees or letters of credit. However, this
Court made two exceptions for grant of an order of injunction to
restrain the enforcement of a bank guarantee or a letter of credit: 11. Except under these circumstances, the courts should not
readily issue injunction to restrain the realisation of a bank
guarantee or a letter of credit. So far as the first exception is
concerned i.e. of fraud, one has to satisfy the court that the fraud in
connection with the bank guarantee or letter of credit would vitiate
the very foundation of such a bank guarantee or letter of credit. So
far as the second exception is concerned, this Court has held in that
decision that it relates to cases where allowing encashment of an
unconditional bank guarantee would result in irretrievable harm or
injustice to one of the parties concerned. While dealing with the
case of fraud, this Court in U.P. Coop. Federation Ltd. v. Singh
Consultants and Engineers (P) Ltd.2 held as follows: (SCC p. 197,
para 53)
 The fraud must be of an egregious nature such as to vitiate the
entire underlying transaction. (emphasis supplied)
While coming to a conclusion as to what constitutes fraud, this
Court in the above case quoted (at SCC p. 197, para 54) with
approval the observations of Sir John Donaldson, M.R. in Bolivinter
Oil SA v. Chase Manhattan Bank3, All ER at p. 352g-h which is as
follows: case5. In that case an exporter in USA entered into an agreement
with the Imperial Government of Iran and sought an order
terminating its liability on stand by letters of credit issued by an
American bank in favour of an Iranian bank as part of the contract.
The relief was sought on account of the situation created after the
Iranian revolution when the American Government cancelled the
export licences in relation to Iran and the Iranian Government had
forcibly taken 52 American citizens as hostages. The US Government 
had blocked all Iranian assets under the jurisdiction of United States
and had cancelled the export contract. The Court upheld the
contention of the exporter that any claim for damages against the
purchaser if decreed by the American courts would not be
executable in Iran under these circumstances and realisation of the
bank guarantee/letters of credit would cause irreparable harm to the
plaintiff. This contention was upheld. To avail of this exception,
therefore, exceptional circumstances which make it impossible for
the guarantor to reimburse himself if he ultimately succeeds, will
have to be decisively established. Clearly, a mere apprehension that
the other party will not be able to pay, is not enough. In Itek case5
there was a certainty on this issue. Secondly, there was good
reason , in that case for the Court to be prima facie satisfied that the
guarantors i.e. the bank and its customer would be found entitled to
receive the amount paid under the guarantee. (emphasis supplied) 14. From the discussions made hereinabove relating to the
principles for grant or refusal to grant of injunction to restrain
enforcement of a bank guarantee or a letter of credit, we find that
the following principles should be noted in the matter of injunction
to restrain the encashment of a bank guarantee or a letter of credit: 15. Keeping these principles in mind and applying the same on
the facts of this case, we can only draw this conclusion that no good
ground has been made out by the appellant to interfere with the
impugned order. As noted hereinabove, there are two exceptions
when courts can grant an order of injunction in favour of an
aggrieved party in the matter of encashment of a bank guarantee or
a letter of credit. Conditions (v) and (vi), as noted hereinabove, are
two such exceptions. For this reason, let us first deal with the case
of fraud pleaded by the appellant in their application for injunction.
The particulars of fraud have been pleaded in para 45 of the
application for injunction filed by the appellant in the High Court.
From a close scrutiny of the facts pleaded in the said paragraph of
the application for injunction, in our view, it cannot be held that
such facts have constituted fraud for which an order of injunction in
the matter of encashment of letter of credit could be passed by the
courts. The facts pleaded in para 45 of the application for injunction
would only show that although the respondent had agreed to
remove the defects in the goods by saying that it shall take steps to
reduce the ash content of the goods to 0.3% before the payment
date of the letter of credit as extended, but they deliberately and
with ulterior motive had not fulfilled their intention to do so. It is not
in dispute that the particulars of the fraud prima facie were
restricted to 10,000 metric tons of the goods supplied by the
respondent in respect of which documents were not negotiated by
the appellant. The entire consignment which was admittedly shipped
by MV Iran Takhti was 12,503 metric tons out of which 2503 metric
tons were negotiated and payments released by Central Bank of 
India. Admittedly, as noted hereinabove, a case of fraud was alleged
only in respect of a part of the consignment of the second shipment.
It has been rightly held by the High Court that this could not
constitute fraud as fraud must be in respect of the whole
consignment and not in respect of a part of the same. In this view
of the matter, we are, therefore, in agreement with the High Court
that the pleadings made relating to fraud in para 45 of the
application for injunction were not sufficient nor could any strong
prima facie case of fraud be made out in the petition which would
warrant a continuance of the order of status quo. That apart, as
noted hereinearlier, in the matter of invocation of a bank guarantee
or a letter of credit, it is not open for the bank to rely upon the
terms of the underlying contract between the parties. (7) In R.P. Kapur v. Union of India (7 supra), the Hon'ble Supreme
Court at paragraphs 8 and 9, held as under: The above contention in the counter is obviously based on the order
dated 28-5-1993 referred to earlier. It is then stated in the counter
rather curiously that even if the average emoluments are fixed as
per the pay revision w.e.f. 1-1-1986, the pension will not increase.
This peculiar logic in the counter is worth quoting: and that 'this was not a case in which the Court ought to exercise its
discretion and grant the injunction'. The same considerations apply
to a bank guarantee. 41. A letter of credit sometimes resembles and is analogous to a
contract of guarantee. In Elian and Anr. v. Matsas and Ors. [1966] 2
Ll. Rep. 495Lord Denning, M.R., while refusing to grant an
injunction stated : v. National Westminster Bank Ltd. [1977] 3 W.L.R. 752 Kerr, J.
considered the position in principle. We would like to adopt a
passage from his judgment at p. 761 : What applies to the bank must equally apply to UPCOF Ltd. 
Therefore, the frame of the suit by not impleading the bank cannot
make any difference in the position of law. Equally, it would be futile
to contend that the court was justified in granting the injunction
since it has found a prima facie case in favour of the SCE(P) Ltd.
The question of examining the prima facie case or balance of
convenience does not arise if the court cannot interfere with the
unconditional commitment made by the bank in the guarantees in 
question. 53. Whether it is a traditional letter of credit or a new device
like performance bond or performance guarantee, the obligation of
banks appears to be the same. If the documentary credits are
irrevocable and independent, the banks must pay when demand is 
made. Since the bank pledges its own credit involving its reputation,
it has no defence except in the case of fraud. The banks obligations
of course should not be extended to protect the unscrupulous seller,
that is, the seller who is responsible for the fraud. But, the banker
must be sure of his ground before declining to pay. The nature of
the fraud that the courts talk about is fraud of an egregious nature
as to vitiate the entire underlying transaction. It is fraud of the
beneficiary, not the fraud of somebody else. If the bank detects with
a minimal investigation the fraudulent action of the seller, the
payment could be refused. The bank cannot be compelled to honour 
the credit in such cases. But it may be very difficult for the bank to
take a decision on the alleged fraudulent action. In such cases, it
would be proper for the bank to ask the buyer to approach the court
for an injunction. 54. The court, however, should not lightly interfere with the
operation of irrevocable documentary credit. I agree with my
learned brother that in order to restrain the operation of the
irrevocable letter of credit, performance bond or guarantee, there
should be serious dispute to be tried and there should be a good
prima facie acts of fraud. As Sir John Donaldson, M.R. said in
Bolivinter Oil SA v. Chase Manhattan Bank16: 55. From the above discussion, what appears to me is this: The
sound banking system may, however require more caution in the 
issuance of irrevocable documentary credits. It would be for the
banks to safeguard themselves by other means and generally not 
for the court to come to their rescue with injunctions unless there is
established fraud. In the result, this appeal must be allowed. The
 judgment and order of the Allahabad High Court dated 20-2-1987
must be set aside and the order of learned Civil Judge, Lucknow
dated 8-8-1986 restored. (12) In Syndicate Bank v. Vijay Kumar (12 supra), the Honble Apex
Court at paragraph 10, held as under: (13) In The State Trading Corporation of India Ltd. v. Jainsons Clothing
Corporation (13 supra), the Honble Supreme Court at paragraphs 5, 6, 9
& 10 held as under: Nor is there any fraud into formation or execution of bank
guarantee. From the contention of the appellant it would appear
that on account of negotiations between the appellant the principal
foreign buyer-Abu Dhabi Municipality, the supply of 7000 M.T. of B-
Grade basmati rice was not made in terms of the principal contract
entered into by the appellant with the foreign buyer. But there is no
clause in the contract dated April 20,1985 entered between the
appellant and the respondents that the contract with the
respondents is co-terminus with non-performance or frustration of
the contract with the foreign buyer. In the absence of such recital
the necessary consequences is that irrespective' of the frustration of
the contract or cancellation of the contract between the principal
supplier, namely, the appellant and the foreign buyer, namely, Abu
Dhabi Municipality, the respondent was under the contract obligated
to make supply of 3000 M.T. of B-Grade basmati rice in terms
thereof. The certificate issued by the officer clearly shows that there
was a failure or default committed by the respondent in supplying
the rice as contracted for. Under those circumstances, it is not a
case of any fraud, but at best, it is a case of cancellation of the
contract by the appellant-principal supplier to the foreign buyer. But
that does not have the effect of frustrating or cancelling the contract
which the respondent had entered into with the appellant.
Therefore, even from the affidavit evidence given in support of the
application for injunction, not only no plea of fraud was made but
also there was no plea of irretrievable injustice that the respondent
was likely to suffer on account of the enforcement of the bank
guarantee - an exception carved out by this Court in U.P.
Cooperative Federation Ltd. v. Singh Consultants and Engineers (P)
Ltd. :[1988]1SCR1124 . Therein this Court after elaborate
consideration of all the decisions, held in para 34 that on the basis
of these principles the commitments of bank guarantee must be
honoured free from interference by the courts. Otherwise, trust in
commerce internal and international would be irreparably damaged.
It is only in exceptional cases, that is to say, in case of fraud or in
case of irretrievable injustice, the court would interfere. 6. While elaborating the plea of fraud, in the concurrent judgment,
Jagannatha Shetty, J. had elaborately dealt with and stated that: (14) In U.P. State Sugar Corporation v. M/s Sumac International Ltd.
(14 supra), the Honble Apex Court at paragraph 12, held as under: The bank which gives the guarantee is not concerned in the least
with the relations between the supplier and the customer; nor with
the question whether the supplier has performed his contractual
obligation or not, nor with the question whether the supplier is in
default or not. The bank must pay according to the tenor of its
guarantee on demand without proof or condition. There are only
two exceptions to this rule. The first exception is a case when there
is a clear fraud of which the bank has notice. The fraud must be of
an egregious nature such as to vitiate the entire underlying
transaction. Explaining the kind of fraud that may absolve a bank
from honouring its guarantee, this Court in the above case quoted
with approval the observations of Sir John Donaldson, M.R. in
Bolivinter Oil SA v. Chase Manhattan Bank NA (1984) 1 All ER 351 at 352. "The wholly exceptional case where an injunction may be
granted is where it is proved that the bank knows that any demand
for payment already made or which may thereafter be made will
clearly be fraudulent. But the evidence must be clear both as to the
fact of fraud and as to the bank's knowledge. It would certainly not
normally be sufficient that this rests on the uncorroborated
statement of the customer, for irreparable damage can be done to a
bank's credit in the relatively brief time which must elapse between
the granting of such an injunction and an application by the bank to
have it charged". This Court set aside an injunction granted by the
High Court to restrain the realisation of the bank guarantee. (15) In National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd. v. Flowmore Pvt. Ltd. (15 supra), the Hon'ble Apex Court, at paragraphs 8 and 10, held as
under: (2) In Kerala State Electricity Board v. Kurien E.Kalathil (17 supra),
the Hon'ble Apex Court, at paragraphs 10 and 11, held as under: Whether the contract envisages actual payment or not is a question
of construction of contract. If a term of a contract is violated,
ordinarily the remedy is not the writ petition under Article 226. We
are also unable to agree with the observations of the High Court
that the contractor was seeking enforcement of a statutory contract.
A contract would not become statutory simply because it is for
construction of a public utility and it has been awarded by a
statutory body. We are also unable to agree with the observation of
the High Court that since the obligations imposed by the contract on
the contracting parties come within the purview of the Contract Act ,
that would not make the contract statutory. Clearly, the High Court
fell into an error in coming to the conclusion that the contract in
question was statutory in nature. 11. A statute may expressly or impliedly confer power on a
statutory body to enter into contracts in order to enable it to
discharge its functions. Dispute arising out of the terms of such
contracts or alleged breaches have to be settled by the ordinary
principles of law of contract. The fact that one of the parties to the
agreement is a statutory or public body will not by itself affect the
principles to be applied. The disputes about the meaning of a
covenant in a contract or its enforceability have to be determined
according to the usual principles of the Contract Act . Every act of a
statutory body need not necessarily involve an exercise of statutory
power. Statutory bodies, like private parties, have power to contract
or deal with property. Such activities may not raise any issue of
public law. In the present case, it has not been shown how the
contract is statutory. The contract between the parties is in the
realm of private law. It is not a statutory contract. The disputes
relating to interpretation of the terms and conditions of such a
contract could not have been agitated in a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. That is a matter for adjudication by a
civil court or in arbitration if provided for in the contract. Whether
any amount is due and if so, how much and refusal of the appellant
to pay it is justified or not, are not the matters which could have
been agitated and decided in a writ petition. The contractor should
have relegated to other remedies. (3) In Indian Bank v. Godhra Nagrik Cooperative Credit Society Ltd (18 supra), the Honble Supreme Court at paragraph 10, held as under: Mr. Sundaram, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of the
respondents, on the other hand, would contend: The question, however, is as to whether the learned Single Judge,
despite holding that the writ petitions were not maintainable, could
have issued direction for constitution of the Committee.
The powers and functions delegated to the Committee were wide, 
by reason whereof for all intent and purport, even judicial power
were delegated. Let us now consider the question as to whether direction to
constitute such a Committee was legally permissible. Indisputably,
the authorities of the Reserve Bank of India in exercise of their
statutory powers conferred upon them under Section 35A of the
Banking Regulation Act could issue directions for initiating an
enquiry into the affairs of the Banks. The Banks being public sector
undertakings could themselves do so and have in fact done so.
It is one thing to say that the Public Sector Banks having regard to
the provisions of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer
of Undertakings) Act, 1970 should discharge their functions keeping
in mind the larger public interest but ordinarily in the matter of
enforcement of contract, they are to be governed by the terms
thereof, which would not be amenable to writ jurisdiction of the
High Court unless the actions of the banks are found to be wholly
arbitrary and unreasonable. The core question which arises for consideration in the writ petitions
was as to whether, keeping in view the apprehension in the mind of
the Bank that it has been subjected to fraud by its own officers as
also the apprehension in their mind that the writ petitioners or their
agents might have conspired with the offices of the Banks, was it
unfair and unreasonable in its decision to refuse to make payment?
The answer to that question prima facie must be rendered in the
negative. If, however, it is found as of fact that the writ petitioners-
respondents were not parties to the fraud, whether even in a lis
involving private law domain, namely, contract qua contract, as a
trustee of the investors' money, they may be held to be liable to
refund the amount, is the question?. Indisputably, whether as a public sector undertakings or otherwise
the banks cannot refuse to accede to the just demand of the
investors to pay any amount lawfully due to them inter alia on the
premise that their officers are guilty of commission of any fraud.
It is one thing to say that fraud has been committed by their officers
to cause wrongful loss to the bank but it is another thing to say that
the banks are constructively liable for the acts of their officers.
In given cases, the employers are constructively liable for acts of
negligence on the part of their employees. The Alter Ego approach adopted in the theory of Corporate liability
which has been applied by the House of Lords in Lennard's Carrying
Co. Ltd. v.Asiatic Petroleum Co Ltd. [1915] AC 705 HL is one such
instance. The facts of the case concerned a cargo claim which
Lennards sought to defend by contending that Section 502 of the
Merchant Shipping Act 2894 exonerated the owner from losses 
arising without his actual fault. The House of Lords held that they
could not rely on that defence since the fault of the appropriate
organ such as the Board of Directors or managing Director could be
attributed to the company. In Farrar's Company Law, 4th Edn. Page 147, it is stated: 21. It is evident from the above that generally the Court should
not exercise its writ jurisdiction to enforce the contractual obligation.
The primary purpose of a writ of mandamus is to protect and
establish rights and to impose a corresponding imperative duty
existing in law. It is designed to promote justice (ex debito
justitiae). The grant or refusal of the writ is at the discretion of the
court. The writ cannot be granted unless it is established that there
is an existing legal right of the applicant, or an existing duty of the
respondent. Thus, the writ does not lie to create or to establish a
legal right, but to enforce one that is already established. While
dealing with a writ petition, the court must exercise discretion,
taking into consideration a wide variety of circumstances, inter alia,
the facts of the case, the exigency that warrants such exercise of
discretion, the consequences of grant or refusal of the writ, and the
nature and extent of injury that is likely to ensue by such grant or
refusal. 22. Hence, discretion must be exercised by the court on
grounds of public policy, public interest and public good. The writ is
equitable in nature and thus, its issuance is governed by equitable
principles. Refusal of relief must be for reasons which would lead to
injustice. The prime consideration for the issuance of the said writ
is, whether or not substantial justice will be promoted. Furthermore,
while granting such a writ, the court must make every effort to
ensure from the averments of the writ petition, whether there exist
proper pleadings. In order to maintain the writ of mandamus, the
first and foremost requirement is that the petition must not be
frivolous, and must be filed in good faith. Additionally, the applicant
must make a demand which is clear, plain and unambiguous. It 
must be made to an officer having the requisite authority to perform
the act demanded. Furthermore, the authority against whom 
mandamus is issued, should have rejected the demand earlier.
Therefore, a demand and its subsequent refusal, either by words, or
by conduct, are necessary to satisfy the court that the opposite
party is determined to ignore the demand of the applicant with
respect to the enforcement of his legal right. However, a demand
may not be necessary when the same is manifest from the facts of
the case, that is, when it is an empty formality, or when it is obvious
that the opposite party would not consider the demand. 17. The material placed before this Court categorically demonstrates
that the suit, O.S.No.78 of 2004 filed by the 2nd respondent against the
petitioners and the 1st respondent-Bank was decreed on 17.7.2006 to the
extent of payment already made by the 1st respondent-Bank and the 
learned Chief judge was not inclined to go into the aspect of balance of
the amount in view of refusal by the 1st respondent Bank to pay the
balance amount. The learned Chief Judge also categorically observed in
the judgment that the same shall not be construed as finding against 2nd
respondent, as such the same does not tantamount to endorsing and 
agreeing to the claim of the petitioners herein. The learned Chief Judge
recorded a categoric finding on the element of fraud in respect of the
transaction. Admittedly appeal in C.C.C.A.No.212 of 2006 is pending
before this Court, wherein this Court granted conditional interim order.
Therefore the judgments cited by the learned counsel for the petitioners
that unless there is an element of fraud the Bank Guarantee cannot be
withheld is of no application to the case of the petitioners. So long as
the said finding on the element of fraud stares at the petitioners, the
contentions based on the principles laid down in the said judgments are
not available to the petitioners. Another justification offered by the 1st
respondent Bank in its counter that the deponent of the affidavit filed in
support of the writ petition clearly stated in the suit as D.W.2 that the
person who opened the LC becomes the beneficiary under the Bank 
Guarantee and the opener of the second LC, M/s Warrenby UK, did not 
invoke the Bank Guarantee. 18. A perusal of the pleadings in the writ affidavit candidly shows that
the petitioners are requesting this Court to adjudicate as to whether the
interpretation given by the respondents on the terms of the contract i.e.,
Bank Guarantee is correct or not and for enforcement of the same in
accordance with the interpretation of the petitioners. It is also to be
noted that virtually the petitioners are asking for the relief of
enforcement of contract and for recovery of amount by way of this writ
petition. The amenability of the said reliefs for the jurisdiction of this
Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is required to be
examined in the light of the principles and parameters laid down by the
Hon'ble Apex Court and this Court. This Court in Canara Bank,
Secunderabad v. Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd., New Delhi (16
supra) categorically held that for money claim, writ petition is not
maintainable under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. In the
judgment reported in Kerala State Electricity Board and another v. Kurien
E.Kalathil (17 supra), the Hon'ble Apex Court dealt with the scope of
jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India in respect of the
matters, touching the implementation and interpretation of the terms of
the contract and recovery of amounts and refusal and justification therein
and eventually held in favour of non-maintainability of the writ petition. As per the Judgment in Indian Bank v. Godhra Nagrik Cooperative Credit
Society Ltd (18 supra), the Apex Court took the view that unless the
impugned actions are wholly arbitrary and unreasonable, the writ petition
would not lie. In the instant case, the reasons assigned by the
respondents herein cannot be said to be either arbitrary or unreasonable
nor the same can be construed as against the public policy. In the
recent judgment in Rajasthan State Industrial Development and
Investment Corporation and another v. Diamond & Gem Development 
Corporation Limited (20 supra), the Hon'ble Apex Court held against
maintainability and further held that only when the element of public
policy, public interest and public good are present, the discretion in
favour of exercise of jurisdiction is permissible. In the considered opinion
of this Court, none of the said contingencies are present and in fact the
same are conspicuously absent in the present case. 19. In the judgment in Hyderabad Urban Development Authority, 
Secunderabad v. M/s IBC Knowledge Park Pvt. Ltd., (5 supra), this Court
relied upon the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in State
of Bihar v. Jain Plastics & Chemicals Ltd. , and held in favour of
non-maintainability of the writ petition. 20. In view of the facts and circumstances of the case and the nature
of controversy involved in the writ petition, the judgments cited on behalf
of the petitioners would not render any assistance to the petitioners
herein. Therefore, this Court is of the view that the petitioners herein
have failed in making out a case, warranting interference of this Court
under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 21. For the aforesaid reasons and having regard to the authoritative
pronouncements referred to above and having regard to the nature of
controversy and keeping in view the pendency of civil litigation between
the parties before this Court in C.C.C.A.No.212 of 2006, this writ petition
is dismissed. As a sequel, the miscellaneous petitions, if any, shall stand
closed. There shall be no order as to costs. ______________ 
A.V.SESHA SAI, J 
Date: 31.10.2014