1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) No. 197 of 2021
 Reserved on: Feb. 1st , 2021. . For the respondent: Mr. Rajinder Dogra, Senior Addl. Advocate General with

 Mr. Vikrant Chandel, Deputy Advocate General. The petitioner, who is in custody since 25.8.2020 has come up before this

 Court, seeking bail on the grounds that he is already in jail for more than six months. 2. Earlier, the petitioner had filed a petition under Section 439 CrPC before the
 concerned Sessions Court. However, vide order dated 1.12.2020, Ld. Additional
 Sessions Judge, Solan, District Solan, HP, dismissed the petition because the
 investigation is not yet completed and the petitioner is beneficiary of all these acts
 and if he is released on bail, he may tamper with the prosecution evidence and
 intimidate the witness. Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? 3. In Para 7 of the bail application, the petitioner declares having no criminal
 history. The status report also does not mention any criminal past of the accused. 4. Briefly, the allegations against the petitioner are that on the basis of a

 . complaint, the Manager, Bank of India, Solan made a written complaint to the Police
 Chowki, Solan, alleging therein that the Bank of India is a body corporate constituted
 under the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act 1970

 having its Head Office at Star House, G-Block, Plot No. C-5, Bandra Kurla
 Complex, Bandra (Est), Mumbai 400051 and one of the branches at Solan known as
 Solan Branch and the petitioner had committed a fraud with the Bank w.e.f. 30.4.2012 to 27.6.2018 during the course of his posting at our Solan Branch. The
 petitioner assigned the job of cheques clearing process both inward and outward,
 organized by State Bank of Patiala (SBOP) now State Bank of India (SBI). The

 petitioner had embezzled banks funds by way of tempering/destroying/altering banks

 record pertaining to the cheques and their clearing process. He with dishonest
 intention, either did not deliver the physical cheques to the paying banks/organizer
 during the clearing process, which resulted into non-credit of amounts/payments

 against these cheques by the paying bank to our bank or the cheques were destroyed
 by the petitioner. However in effect it become binding for our bank for crediting the
 amount to the accounts of account holders of our bank/Solan Branch through office

 account and had got the same verified to cover the amount of said cheques as
 detailed in Annexure -1. The petitioner destroyed the valuable security of the bank

 for his wrongful gain and wrongful loss to the bank. The petitioner had further
 dishonestly removed physical cheques received from collecting banks during

 clearing process for payment by our bank resulting in payment against these cheques
 to collecting bank by debiting current amount of our bank/Solan branch maintained
 with SBOP now SBI and had also dishonestly generated the wrong vouchers in Net
 Clear account and got the same verified to cover up the said cheques for balancing
 the current account with SBOP and contra office account at bank/Solan branch as
 detailed in Annexure-II. The detail of how the fraud was detected is given in
 Annexure-III and now the clearing process takes place is given in Annexure-IV. It
 has been observed that the petitioner has credited the proceeds of the fraudulent
 transactions either in his wife's account or in the account of persons dealing with
 him. The funds were siphoned off in this fashion and requested to register FIR ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:16:55 :::HCHP 3 against the petitioner, investigate the matter and book aforesaid culprit for the
 offences committed by him under Indian Penal Code and other provisions of law for
 the facts narrated above and the annexure attached therewith and initiate appropriate

 . criminal proceedings against him in accordance with law. The roles and

 responsibilities of unknown public persons may also be investigated in the
 commission of the fraud and copy of the FIR may be forwarded to us for our record. Based on these allegations, the Police registered the FIR mentioned above. The
 complainant also referred to certain annexures and at this stage there is no purpose to
 reproduce the same. 5. Ld. Counsel for the petitioner contends that incarceration before the proof of
 guilt would cause grave injustice to the petitioner and family. 6. On the contrary, the contention on behalf of the State is that if this Court is

 inclined to grant bail, then such a bond must be subject to very stringent conditions. 7. The possibility of the accused influencing the investigation, tampering with
 evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken
 care of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions. In Sushila Aggarwal,

 (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Constitutional Bench held that unusually, subject to the
 evidence produced, the Courts can impose restrictive conditions. 8. Reasoning: Given the nature of offence and the fact that the petitioner has

 already incarsrated for more than six months, there would be no justification to
 continue further custody, as such, the petition is allowed and bail is granted. 9. An analysis of entire evidence does not justify further incarceration of the
 accused, nor is going to achieve any significant purpose. Without commenting on the
 merits of the case, the stage of the investigation and the period of incarceration
 already undergone would make out a case for bail. 10. In the facts and circumstances peculiar to this case, the petitioner makes out a
 case for release on bail. 11. Given the above reasoning, the Court is granting bail to the petitioner, subject
 to strict terms and conditions, which shall be over and above and irrespective of the
 contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 12. In Manish Lal Shrivastava v State of Himachal Pradesh, CrMPM No. 1734
 of 2020, after analysing judicial precedents, this Court observed that any Court

 . granting bail with sureties should give a choice to the accused to either furnish surety

 bonds or give a fixed deposit, with a further option to switch over to another. 13. The petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR mentioned above, subject to

 his furnishing a personal bond of Rs. Twenty-five thousand (INR 25,000/-), and shall
 furnish two sureties of a similar amount, to the satisfaction of the Judicial Magistrate
 having the jurisdiction over the Police Station conducting the investigation, and in

 case of non-availability, any Ilaqa Magistrate. Before accepting the sureties, the
 concerned Magistrate must satisfy that in case the accused fails to appear in Court,
 then such sureties are capable to produce the accused before the Court, keeping in

 mind the Jurisprudence behind the sureties, which is to secure the presence of the

 accused. 14. In the alternative, the petitioner may furnish aforesaid personal bond and
 fixed deposit(s) for Rs. Twenty-five thousand only (INR 25,000/-), made in favour of

 "Chief Judicial Magistrate, District Kangra, H.P.," expiry of the period mentioned under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, or until discharged

 by substitution as the case may be. 15. The furnishing of the personal bonds shall be deemed acceptance of the

 following and all other stipulations, terms, and conditions of this bail order: Whenever the investigation occurs within the police premises, the petitioner
 shall not be called before 8 AM and shall be let off before 5 PM, and shall not
 be subjected to third-degree, indecent language, inhuman treatment, etc. e) In addition to standard modes of processing service of summons, the
 concerned Court may serve or inform the accused about the issuance of
 summons, bailable and non-bailable warrants the accused through E-Mail (if
 any), and any instant messaging service such as WhatsApp, etc. (if any).
 [Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Re Cognizance for Extension of
 Limitation, Suo Moto Writ Petition (C) No. 3/2020, I.A. No. 48461/2020- July
 10, 2020]: Any Advocate for the petitioner can download this order along with the case status
 from the official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. In case the

 . attesting officer or the Court wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can also

 verify its authenticity and may download and use the downloaded copy for attesting
 bonds. The petition stands allowed in the terms mentioned above. Copy Dasti. Anoop Chitkara,

 Vacation Judge. Feb 4, 2021 (kck).