HON'BLE ANISH KUMAR GUPTA, J. 1. The present petition has been filed by the petitioner who is a jeweler. He says on 10.05.2024, one Suryamani Rakesh, resident of Shivdhara Rudrapur, District- Deoria, purchased jewelry worth Rs. 50,000/- from him and made the payment through PhonePe, a mobile phone-based application. 2. A crime was registered by the Inspector of Police, Cybercrime (Hyderabad), who is respondent no.3, on the basis of the complaint of one Divya Sanadi on 28.05.2024, alleging transaction and online fraud where the total sum that was taken out from her account was Rs.1, 91,200/- out of which Rs.22,000/- appears to have gone into the account of the petitioner by way of the transaction executed by Suryamani Rakesh. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he being a businessman, the order for freezing the account that has been passed by the respondent no.3 is affecting his ability to perform the business. Freezing of bank account has been incorporated under Section 106 of the BNSS and this issue was already considered by a learned Coordinate Bench of this Court in the case of Marufa Begam vs. Union of India and 5 others (Writ C No. 37053 of 2025) dated 29.10.2025. The issue to be decided by the Coordinate Bench whether the bank was justified in freezing the bank account of the petitioner in that case . 4. The learned Coordinate Bench held in the affirmative that such a power exists to the police and relied upon a judgment of the Supreme Court in Teesta Atul Setalvad vs. State of Gujarat (2018) 2 SCC 372 and relied upon paragraph '25' of the said judgment where the Supreme Court held that where the Investigating Officer was in possession of materials pointing out the circumstances which create suspicion of commission of an offense, he could have exercised powers under Section 102 of the code and freeze the bank account. 5. Thereafter, the Coordinate Bench in paragraph '10' held that where the police in the course of investigation is of the opinion that the account in question is to be frozen due to suspicious transactions, it is empowered to direct the bank to freeze such a bank account. It, however, added a caveat that the outcome of such action would depend upon the end result of the investigation. 6. This court is in humble agreement with the learned observations of the Coordinate Bench. However, the question that arises before this Court is what is the remedy available to the petitioner who is a resident of Uttar Pradesh. 7. Learned counsel for the respondent submits that Section 497 of the BNSS provides for the Magistrate to decide on the basis of an application whether the account would remain frozen or whether it should be released. However, the problem faced by the petitioner here is that he would now have to approach a court which is far away only to move such an application under Section 497 BNSS. 8. Looking at the exigencies and the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, we request the respondent no.3 to release the bank account of the petitioner, subject to him providing a fixed deposit equivalent to the amount deposited into his account as a result of the fraud, which appears to be Rs. 22,000/-, and thereafter release the bank account. The same should suffice that in the event the complainant succeeds, her loss is also secured to the extent that the account of the petitioner was involved with. 9. The petition stands disposed of in the light of the aforesaid directions. (Anish Kumar Gupta,J.) (Atul Sreedharan,J.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 15, 2025 
 
Shubham Arya