(Per the Hon'ble Dr. Justice Shameem Akther)

 Smt. Banka Sneha Sheela, the petitioner, has filed this

Habeas Corpus petition on behalf of her husband, Banka

Ravikanth, S/o. Erraiah, aged about 34 years, the detenu,

challenging the detention order, vide 47/PD-CELL/CYB/2020, dated

28.09.2020, passed by the Commissioner of Police, Cyberabad

Police Commissionerate, the respondent No.2, wherein, the detenu

was detained under Section 3(2) of the Telangana Prevention of

Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers, Dacoits, Drug-Offenders,

Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders, Land-Grabbers, Spurious

Seed offenders, Insecticide Offenders, Fertilizer Offenders, Food

Adulteration Offenders, Fake Document offenders, Scheduled

Commodities Offenders, Forest Offenders, Gaming Offenders,

Sexual Offenders, Explosive Substances Offenders, Arms

Offenders, Cyber Crime Offenders & White Collar or Financial

Offenders Act, 1986 (for short "P.D. Act"). 2. We have heard the submissions of Dr. Challa Srinivasa

Reddy, learned counsel for the petitioner, Sri T.Srikanth Reddy,

learned Government Pleader for Home appearing on behalf of

Additional Advocate General for the respondents and perused the

record. 3. The learned counsel for the petitioner has vehemently

contended that the impugned detention order is illegal, arbitrary,
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 3 W.P.No.20146 of 2020 unconstitutional, improper, against the principles of natural justice

and has been passed in a mechanical manner and without

application of mind. All the five cases relied upon by the detaining

authority for preventively detaining the detenu have been foisted

against the detenu at the instigation of the complainants therein to

extract money and there is no incriminating material against the

detenu in the said cases. Already criminal law was set into motion

against the detenu. Hence, there is no need for the respondents to

invoke draconian preventive detention laws against him. The

contents of the complaints in the cases relied upon by the

detaining authority indicate that the detenu collected huge money

under the guise of investing the same in stock market and

promised good returns, but there is no mention in the said

complaints that the detenu had cheated the public. Hence, the

impugned detention order is unsustainable in view of the facts and

circumstances of the case. Collecting huge money from public for

investing in same in stock market by promising good returns, in

any event, would not satisfy the word 'White Collar Offender'. The

detenu is a Stock Market Trader and hails from a respectable

family. All the criminal cases relied upon by the detaining

authority for preventively detaining the detenu are at preliminary

stage and charge-sheet is not filed in any case. Further, in all the

five cases relied by the detaining authority for preventively

detaining the detenu, the detenu was granted bail by the Courts

concerned. But, the detenu is again detained in the prison by

invoking the draconian preventive detention laws. Further, the

detaining authority did not assign any reason for coming to a

conclusion that the activities of the detenu are disturbing peace
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 4 W.P.No.20146 of 2020 and tranquility in society and affecting the public order. Further,

the cases alleged against the detenu do not add up to "disturbing

the public order". They are confined within the ambit and scope of

the word "law and order". Since the detenu is alleged to be a

'White Collar Offender', the detenu can certainly be tried and

convicted under the Penal Code. Thus, there was no need for the

detaining authority to invoke the draconian preventive detention

laws. Hence, the impugned detention order tantamounts to

colourable exercise of power. The detaining authority has to be

extremely careful while passing the detention order, since the

detention ipso facto adversely affects the fundamental right of

personal liberty enjoyed by the people under Article 21 of the

Constitution of India. Thus, the detention order is legally

unsustainable and ultimately, prayed to set aside the same and

allow the writ petition as prayed for. 4. On the other hand, Sri T.Srikanth Reddy, learned

Government Pleader for Home, would contend that the detenu is a

'White Collar Offender'. He has repeatedly indulged in white collar

offences by contacting innocent people stating that he is a High

Court Advocate and inspired them to invest money in newly

upcoming companies and collected more than Rs.50 lakhs from

them through Phone-Pe (online) and in-person on the pretext of

providing good profit by investing their money in stock market and

cheated them in an organized way, creating a feeling of insecurity

among public, thus disturbing peace and tranquility in society and

acted in a manner, which is prejudicial to the maintenance of public

order. The unlawful activities of the detenu were causing
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 5 W.P.No.20146 of 2020 widespread danger to the gullible public and were detrimental to

the public order. The series of crimes allegedly committed by the

detenu were sufficient to affect the even tempo of the society and

create a feeling of insecurity in the minds of the people at large.

Further, the detenu committed the alleged crimes in quick

succession. The impugned detention order was passed basing on

valid grounds and material placed before the respondents. All the

mandatory provisions and the safeguards envisaged under the

Constitution of India were strictly followed while passing the

impugned detention order and hence, the impugned detention

order does not suffer from illegality or impropriety. In all the cases

relied by the detaining authority for detaining the detenu, the

detenu got bail from the Courts concerned. Hence, with a view to

prevent the detenu from further indulging in such dangerous

activities in the interest of the society, the impugned detention

order was passed. Preventive detention is different from punitive

detention. Preventive detention is a precautionary measure basing

on reasonable anticipation and it does not overlap with the

prosecution. Out of five crimes relied by the detaining authority in

preventively detaining the detenu, in four crimes, investigation has

been completed and charge-sheets have been filed. Further, the

Advisory Board, in its review meeting held on 10.11.2020, upon

hearing the detenu and the concerned investigating officials and

upon considering the entire material placed before it, rendered its

opinion that there is sufficient cause for detention of the detenu.

On considering the opinion of the Advisory Board and upon

considering the entire material, the Government confirmed the

impugned detention order, vide G.O.Rt.No.1954, General
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 6 W.P.No.20146 of 2020 Administration (Spl. (Law & Order)) Department, dated

17.12.2020. Therefore, the detaining authority was legally

justified in passing the impugned detention order and ultimately,

prayed to dismiss the writ petition. 5. In view of the submissions made by both sides, the point

that arises for determination in this Writ Petition is: POINT: 6. Briefly, the facts of the case are that by relying on five

criminal cases registered against the detenu in Crime

Nos.705/2019, 708/2019, 713/2019, 19/2020 and 29/2020, within

the limits of Cyberabad Police Commissionerate, the respondent

No.2-Commissioner of Police, Cyberabad Police Commissionerate,

passed the detention order, dated 28.09.2020. According to the

respondent No.2, the detenu is a 'White Collar Offender' and he

has been habitually and continuously engaging himself in series of

unlawful activities by committing criminal breach of trust and

cheating the innocent public by collecting huge money under the

guise of investing the same in stock market and promising good

profit, in an organized way, and thereby creating large scale fear

and insecurity among the gullible public, which are prejudicial to
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 7 W.P.No.20146 of 2020 the maintenance of public order. In all the five cases relied by the

detaining authority for preventively detaining the detenu, the

detenu got bail from the Court concerned. In order to prevent the

detenu from indulging in similar illegal activities, which are

detrimental to the public order, the impugned detention order,

dated 28.09.2020, was passed, which was confirmed by the

Government by order, dated 17.12.2020. 7. The material placed on record reveals that the detenu-Banka

Ravikanth, S/o. Erraiah, aged about 34 years, is a 'White Collar

Offender'. He, claiming as a High Court Advocate, inspired the

gullible people to invest money in newly upcoming companies and

collected more than Rs.50 lakhs from them through online and in-

person on the pretext of providing good returns by investing their

money in stock market and thereby, cheated them in an organized

manner. The detaining authority relied on five cases for

preventively detaining the detenu. We shall present it in a tabular

column, the date of occurrence, the date of registration of FIR, the

offences complained of and its nature, such as bailable/non-

bailable or cognizable/non-cognizable. Date of
 Date of
 Crime No. Occurrence registration Offences Nature
 of FIR
 Sections 406 &
 420: 8. The material placed on record reveals that the detenu has

been habitually committing while collar offences within the limits of

Cyberabad Police Commissionerate. In first crime, i.e., Crime

No.705/2019, the allegations against the detenu is that he

introduced himself as a High Court Advocate and instigated the de-

facto complainant therein to invest money in newly upcoming

projects and promised him good returns. Believing the words of

the detenu, the de-facto complainant therein paid about

Rs.5,50,000/- to the detenu through Phone-Pe (online) and by way

of cash. After coming to know that he was cheated, when the de-

facto complainant asked the detenu to give his money back, the

detenu alleged to have threatened him with dire consequences. In

the second crime, i.e., Crime No.708/2019, the detenu alleged to

have collected about Rs.2 lakhs from the de-facto complainant on

the same pretext. In the third crime, i.e., Crime No.713/2019, the

detenu alleged to have collected Rs.3 lakhs from the de-facto

complainant therein. In fourth crime, i.e., Crime No.19/2020, the

detenu alleged to have collected about Rs.1.6 lakhs from the de-

facto complainant. In fifth crime, i.e., Crime No.29/2020, the

detenu alleged to have collected around Rs.32 lakhs from the de-

facto complainant therein. A perusal of the record reveals that the

detenu, in greed of money, resorted to illegal activities of collecting
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 9 W.P.No.20146 of 2020 huge money from gullible public through on-line as well as by cash,

under the guise of investing the same in stock market and cheated

them with cool calculation and deliberate design, with an eye on

personal profit, regardless of the consequence to the community.

Further, the material placed on record reveals that the detenu

committed the alleged offences in quick succession. Here, it is apt

to state that the economic offences, having deep rooted

conspiracies and involving huge loss of public funds, needs to be

viewed seriously and considered as grave offences affecting the

economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing serious

threat to the financial health of the country. Similarly, white collar

offence can have a large impact on the society. It is also called as

a socio-economic crime, because it has a direct impact on the

society, which is far more costly than the ordinary crime. These

white collar crimes, by nature, are such that the injury or the

damage caused as a consequence of it is so widely diffused in the

large body of citizens, that their enormity as regards personage

victim is almost trifling. Unfortunately, in the last few years, the

country has been witnessing an alarming rise in white-collar

crimes, which has affected the very fibre of the country's economic

structure. Notwithstanding stringent legislations made to curb this

evil, it has not been possible to eradicate the same. Therefore,

any leniency in economic offence will send a wrong signal to the

society at large. On the contrary, a message must reach to such

offenders that there shall not be any leniency shown with respect

to such activities/offences and the same shall be dealt with Iron

hand. In State of Gujarat Vs. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal1, a 1 (1987) 2 SCC 364
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 10 W.P.No.20146 of 2020 Division Bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, speaking

through M.P.Thakkar, J (as His Lordship then was) observed as

under:- 9. In the instant case, a perusal of the material placed on

record reveals that the detenu was granted bail by the Courts

concerned in all the five cases relied upon by the detaining

authority for preventively detaining him. Under these

circumstances, the contention of the respondents that the illegal

activities of the detenu would disturb the even tempo of life of the

community which makes it prejudicial to the maintenance of the

public order and there is imminent possibility of the detenu again

indulging in similar prejudicial activities, cannot be brushed aside. 10. It is apt to state that preventive detention is different from

punitive detention. While punitive detention could be enforced

under ordinary criminal law, the law of preventive detention can be

enforced against habitual offenders to prevent them from

committing the future similar offences, which are detrimental to

the public interest, disturbing the even tempo of life and causing

damage to public health. The legal parameters for testing the

validity of 'preventive detention' fundamentally vary from that of
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 11 W.P.No.20146 of 2020 'punitive detention'. Also, 'Public order' is distinct from 'law and

order'. While individual offences without affecting public at large

could be considered as violating 'law and order', the offences that

affect larger public and disturbs the even tempo of public life fall

under the category of disturbance to public order and only in the

latter category of cases, the law of preventive detention shall be

enforced. 11. In the case of Madhu Limaye Vs. Sub-Divisional

Magistrate2 . The Hon'ble Apex Court held as follows: 12. In the case of Commissioner of Police & Others Vs.

C.Anita (Smt. )3, the Hon'ble Apex Court examined the issue of

"public order" and "law and order" and observed as follows: 13. In the case of R. Kalavathi v. State of Tamil Nadu4 , the

Hon'ble Apex Court, while dealing with the case affecting the public

order, observed that even a single act which has the propensity of

affecting the even tempo of life and public tranquility would be

sufficient for detention. 14. As per the clause (x) of Section 2 of the P.D.Act, a "White

Collar Offender" "White collar offender" or "Financial Offender" 15. It is pertinent to state that the personal liberty of an

individual, which the law preserves and protects, can also be taken

away by following the procedure established by law, when it is

used to jeopardize the public good and not merely private

interests. An order or detention is not a curative or reformative or

punitive action, but a preventive action, the avowed object of 4 (2006) 6 SCC 14
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 13 W.P.No.20146 of 2020 which is to prevent the anti-social and subversive elements from

imperiling the welfare of the people or the security of the nation or

from disturbing the public tranquility or from indulging in white

collar offences. In the instant case, the commission of alleged

offences by the detenu in a quick succession as indicated in the

above table clearly demonstrates that the detenu, under the

pretext of investing money in the newly upcoming companies,

collected huge amount from the gullible people in an organized

fashion, played fraud on them and when they asked him to repay

the money, threatened them with dire consequences. The modus

operandi of the detenu in the alleged offences which were

committed in quick succession would certainly disturb the public

peace and tranquility. So it is imperative upon the officers

concerned to pass the order of detention, since the acts of the

detenu are prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. The

illegal activities of the detenu were of such a reach and extent, that

they would certainly affect the even tempo of life and were

prejudicial to the public order. The detaining authority had

sufficient material to record subjective satisfaction that the

detention of the detenu was necessary to maintain public order and

even tempo of life of the community. The order of detention does

not suffer from any illegality. The grounds of detention, as

indicated in the impugned order, are found to be relevant and in

tune with the provisions of the P.D.Act. Since the detenu got bail

in all the five cases relied upon by the detaining authority, there is

nothing wrong on the part of the detaining authority in raising an

apprehension that there is every possibility of the detenu

committing similar offences, which would again certainly affect the
 ARR, J & Dr. SAJ 14 W.P.No.20146 of 2020 public order. The quick succession of commission of alleged

offences by the detenu makes it amply clear that there is every

possibility of detenu committing similar offences in future, which

are prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. The material

placed on record reveals that the detenu was supplied with the

documents relied upon by the detaining authority in the language

known to him, i.e., Telugu, besides English. The material relied on

and circumstances show that the subjective satisfaction of the

detaining authority is not tainted or illegal on any account. The

facts and circumstances indicate that the acts of the detenu cannot

be effectively dealt with under ordinary criminal law. Under these

circumstances, the detaining authority is justified in passing the

impugned detention order. We do not see any merit in this Writ

Petition and as such, it is liable to be dismissed. 16. The Writ Petition is, accordingly, dismissed. There shall be

no order as to costs. The miscellaneous petitions pending, if any, in this Writ

Petition, shall stand closed. ____________________
 A. RAJASHEKER REDDY, J

 ____________________
 Dr. SHAMEEM AKTHER, J

Date: 31st March, 2021
Note: