1. The present Criminal Reference under Section 436 of Bharatiya
 Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, (hereinafter referred to as 'BNSS') has
 been received from the court of learned Judicial Magistrate-08, West Delhi
 District, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi, (hereinafter referred to as 'Referral
 Magistrate') and the reference is sought on the following six points:- 2. The material placed before us reflects that one Sh. Rishi Galhotra
 filed an application before the Referral Magistrate. He claimed himself to be
 victim of 'online fraud' and wanted release of sum of Rs. 12,660/-. He had
 paid said amount on OLX platform to buy one mobile. 3. The concerned police station i.e. PS Cyber West, in its reply, apprised
 the court that no money trail was available on the portal and since Paytm
 had been used as Payment Service Provider (PSP), the alleged cheated
 money was not credited in any account or wallet. As per subsequent reply, it
 was, however, apprised that the cheated amount had further been transferred
 to one account held by one Ranjeet Kumar Jha with RBL Bank, which
 account was inactive and was reported in eleven other cyber complaints. 4. The predecessor magisterial court was of the view that no
 adjudication was required in view of the aforesaid reply. 5. However, when the matter was taken up by the new incumbent i.e.
 Referral Magistrate, it took note of the fact that cyber complaints were rising
 at an alarming rate and the complaints in most of such cases did not get
 converted into formal registration of FIR and the inquiries were being
 conducted by the police, without following the prescribed procedure. It also
 noted that the complainants in such type of matters were facing difficulty in
 release of amount due to multiple orders from different Courts, all over
 India. 6. Resultantly, Referral Magistrate formed an opinion that there was
 requirement of having clarity with regard to aforesaid issues so that no
 victim of 'online fraud' is made to run from pillar to post and, therefore, the
 aforesaid points for consideration have been forwarded for appropriate
 decision. 7. Section 436 of BNSS reads as under: Explanation.--In this section, Regulation means any Regulation
 as defined in the General Clauses Act, 1897 , or in the General
 Clauses Act of a State. (2) A Court of Session may, if it or he thinks fit in any case
 pending before it or him to which the provisions of sub-section
 (1) do not apply, refer for the decision of the High Court any
 question of law arising in the hearing of such case.
 (3) Any Court making a reference to the High Court under sub-
 section (1) or sub-section (2) may, pending the decision of the
 High Court thereon, either commit the accused to jail or release
 him on bail to appear when called upon. 8. The erstwhile provision, as provided in Section 395 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure ( CrPC ), reads as under: Explanation.--In this section, Regulation means any Regulation
 as defined in the General Clauses Act, 1897 , or in the General
 Clauses Act of a State. 2. A Court of Session or a Metropolitan Magistrate may, if it or he
 thinks fit in any case pending before it or him to which the
 provisions of Sub-Section (1) do not apply, refer for the decision
 of the High Court any question of law arising in the hearing of
 such case. 3. Any Court making a reference to the High Court under Sub-
 Section (1) or Sub-Section (2) may, pending the decision of the
 High Court thereon, either commit the accused to jail or release
 him on bail to appear when called upon. (emphasis supplied) 9. Section 436(1) of BNSS comes into play when Referral Court is of
 the opinion that any Act, Ordinance, Regulation or any provision is invalid
 or inoperative. In addition to the above, as per Section 436(2) of BNSS,
 Court of Session may refer for the decision of the High Court any question
 of law arising in the hearing of such case. 10. It is very much obvious from the bare perusal of the material placed
 before us that the learned Referral Magistrate has not come to any
 conclusion that any Act, Ordinance, Regulation or any provision thereof is
 invalid or inoperative and has not been so declared by the Constitutional
 Courts and that determination of the same is necessary for disposal of the
 pending application. 11. Any question of law, in terms of Section 436(2) BNSS, can only be
 referred by a Court of Session. 12. Under the old provision i.e. under Section 395 Cr.P.C., even a
 Magisterial Court was competent to do so but such power has been curtailed Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.REF. 13/2025 4 By:SONIA THAPLIYAL Signing Date:09.12.2025 15:12:19 and as per bare reading of Section 436(2) BNSS, such power, now, vests
 with Court of Session only. Moreover, the issues raised herein are not, even
 otherwise, questions of law. Needless to say, a magisterial court has ample
 powers to pass appropriate order(s), including ordering attachment and
 seizure. These powers have to be, of course, exercised after keeping in mind
 the factual matrix of any given case. 13. Be that as it may, since, no question as to the validity of any law has
 been raised in the present matter and since 'question of law' can be
 forwarded only by a 'Court of Session', the Reference is not maintainable. 14. Reference petition stands disposed of accordingly. 15. A copy of this order be forwarded to learned Referral Magistrate for
 information. (VIVEK CHAUDHARY)
 JUDGE

 (MANOJ JAIN)
 JUDGE
 DECEMBER 8, 2025/st/pb Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL.REF. 13/2025 5 By:SONIA THAPLIYAL Signing Date:09.12.2025 15:12:19