Prefatory Facts : 8.7. It appears that based on the stand taken by ICICI Bank in its applications referred to above, BGR filed fresh applications seeking relief against BOB. Pertinently, around this time, BGR became aware of the fact that it had not filed a complete set of the contract documents. In this behalf, BGR was put on alert by assertions made in ICICI Bank's written submissions, filed with the learned Single Judge in support of its case. 8.8. Consequently, BGR via its authorised signatory filed an affidavit dated 27.04.2016 along with the Judge's Summons, wherein, it inter alia indicated that all material documents had been filed. In so far as conditions of the contract pertaining to change in law, force majeure, war risk, disputes and arbitration were concerned, the same had been, according to BGR, if at all, left out, inadvertently. It was reiterated on behalf of BGR in the affidavit that material facts had been disclosed in the pleadings filed before the Court. 8.9. It is pertinent to note that ordinarily the Court closes for summer break in the month of May of each year. However, in the Court working days which followed and preceded the summer break, the Judge's Summons were not placed before the Court. The Court in the usual course closed for vacations. The Registry in the meanwhile, apparently, had returned the applications / Judge's Summons, as they were incomplete. This somehow was not immediately noticed by the Advocates engaged on behalf of BGR. 9. Upon arguments being heard in the aforementioned four (4) applications, the learned Single Judge vide judgement and decree dated 01.06.2016, made the ad-interim injunction dated 02.12.2014, absolute. Consequently, the applications filed by ICICI Bank i.e., A.No.1495 and 1496 of 2016 were dismissed. 10. Being aggrieved, ICICI Bank preferred two (2) appeals with the Division Bench i.e., O.S.A.No.136 and 137 of 2016. These appeals were filed on 13.06.2016. 10.1. The Division Bench after hearing the contesting parties, vide judgement dated 26.04.2017, set aside the order dated 01.06.2016 and remanded the matter to the learned Single Judge to pass fresh orders qua all four (4) applications, albeit, after considering the issue of suppression of material documents and jurisdiction of the Court. The Division Bench also indicated that till further orders were passed in the applications, status quo as on that day shall be maintained by the contesting parties i.e., BGR and ICICI Bank. 11. It is in this background that the impugned judgement and order has been passed. In sum, the learned Single Judge has dismissed the applications filed on behalf of BGR for injunction and proceeded to allow the contra applications filed on behalf of ICICI Bank for vacating the injunction. The principal reason for doing so, is that, according to the learned Single Judge, BGR had suppressed vital portions of the contract which contained conditions pertaining to force majeure, war risk and arbitration. 12. Pertinently, this time around, BGR is aggrieved with the judgement of the learned Single Judge and, accordingly, has preferred the captioned appeals. Submissions of counsels : 13. In support of the instant appeals, arguments were advanced by Mr.Sathish Parasaran, learned senior counsel instructed by Mr.R.Parthasarathy, Advocate, while, on behalf of ICICI Bank, submissions were advanced by AL.Somaiyaji, learned senior counsel instructed by Mr.Adhivarahan, Advocate. 14. The arguments of Mr.Parasaran can, broadly, be paraphrased as follows: 15. On the other hand, Mr.A.L.Somayaji, made the following, broad, submissions: REASONS: 16. We have heard the learned counsels for parties and perused the record. 17. According to us, the argument advanced on behalf of the parties can be summarised under the following heads : 18. Before we proceed further in respect of point No.(I) and (II), we may only reiterate the well-settled principle, which is, that in matters pertaining to grant of injunction on the invocation of a Bank Guarantee (BG), which is, ordinarily, construed as a contract separate and independent of the main contract, the Courts are, understandably, slow to oblige. The reason being injunctions, if granted, outside the sphere of known exceptions have the deleterious effect of impeding trade and commerce. Injunctions, therefore, are granted only in the following three (3) situations : 18.1. These are only three (3) exceptions to the general rule evolved by the Courts over a period of time that BG's, when, invoked should be honoured as it otherwise, erodes the confidence of men of commerce in the banking system. 18.2. One of the first cases, which lays down this principle in no uncertain terms, is the judgement of the Supreme Court rendered in U.P. Co-operative Federation Limited V. Singh Consultants and Engineers (P) Limited , 1988 (1) SCC 174. 18.3. Though, a plethora of judgements on the issue have been cited by both sides, we do not wish to burden the judgement with other citations, as the principle over several decades has remained unshaken. 18.4.	We may only note that so strong is the principle that when, injunction orders were passed by Courts contrary to known exceptions, the Supreme Court in Dwarikesh Sugar Industries Limited V. Prem Heavy Engineering Works (P) Limited , 1997 (6) SCC 450, observed that it amounted to judicial impropriety to ignore the settled decisions, and then, proceed to pass judicial orders counter to the settled position. For the sake of convenience, the observations made by the Supreme Court, in this behalf, are set out hereafter : 19.1. In this regard, we will first deal with the submission of Mr.Parasaran, as to whether this is case of egregious fraud. 19.2. Mr.Parasaran has submitted that suspension and/or withdrawal of the irrevocable LC opened by GOR in its favour amounted to fraud. This argument is based on the rationale that BGR's only security against wrongful invocation of the counter guarantee and/or PBG was the irrevocable LC. For this purpose, Mr.Parasaran, placed reliance on Clause 6 of the PBG, Article 2.2. of the Contract and Particular Conditions (PC) 13 of the contract, which supplement the General Conditions (GC) appended to the main contract. For the sake of convenience, the said provisions are extracted hereafter : The Employer shall instruct its bank to issue an irrevocable documentary letter of credit made available to the Contractor through the Trade Bank of Iraq with amount of (50%) Fifty Percent of total Contract Price and will be increased to full amount of contract price (within the second quarter of the year 2014)
The credit shall be subject to the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits (2007) Revision ICC Publication No.600. The Contractor shall be responsible for all bank fees and charges outside Iraq. ----- PC 13. Securities 

PC 13.3.1. The amount of performance security (in the form of a bank guaranty) as a percentage of the Contract Price for the Facility or for the part of the Facility for which a separate Time for Completion is provided, shall be : five percent (5%) of the total Contract Price, which amount shall be maintained until the end of the Defects Liability Period. PC 13.3.2. The performance security shall be in the form of the bank guaranty attached hereto in Section IX, Contract Forms. 19.3. Besides the aforesaid, one, may also, at this stage itself, quote, in entirety, the provisions of the counter guarantee, which are at the heart of the dispute obtaining between BGR and ICICI Bank : Please provide us with a copy of your guarantee immediately upon its issuance. ....
(emphasis is ours)
 
	19.4. A perusal of the aforesaid provisions would show that BGR was required to furnish a performance security as a percentage of the contract price. The percentage fixed was 5% of the total contract value. The Performance Security was required to be kept alive till the end of the defect liability period, and furthermore, the same was to be given in the format provided for the said purpose. 19.5. The facts, as set out above by us, in respect of which there is no dispute, that BGR in order to furnish a PBG under the contract to GOR approached BOB. BOB, in turn, called upon ICICI Bank to furnish a counter guarantee. The counter guarantee, on the other hand, was secured with BGR depositing 110% margin money. 19.6. Mr.Parasaran, based on clause 6 of the PBG, to which we have made a reference above, says that the continued operability of the irrevocable LC was a sine qua non for BGR to keep the counter guarantee alive. The argument advanced by Mr.Parasaran is, that since, the LC was suspended and/or withdrawn by GOR, a was fraud played upon BGR by GOR, qua which ICICI Bank had knowledge, and therefore, it ought not to pay moneys under the counter guarantee to BOB. In support of this submission, M.Parasaran, has also placed reliance on a letter dated 08.01.2014, addressed by ICICI Bank to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Based on this letter, it was contended by Mr.Parasaran that ICICI Bank itself had taken a stand before the RBI that the PBG would become operational only on the contract being signed between BGR and GOR and, on issuance of an irrevocable LC by GOR in favour of BGR. The letter, according to Mr.Parasaran, went on to further state that, since, as on that date, the irrevocable LC had not been issued, the Counter Guarantee issued by ICICI Bank was not effective. 19.7. According to us, the argument advanced by Mr.Parasaran is flawed for several reasons : 19.8. Therefore, the submission that an egregious fraud has been committed by GOR in suspending and/or withdrawing the LC, and that, therefore, ICICI Bank should be injuncted from paying BOB under the counter guarantee is, according to us, an argument, which is, completely, untenable. 20. This aspect of the matter also becomes clear, if, one were to read carefully the letter dated 08.01.2014, addressed by ICICI Bank to RBI. Since, the letter is brief, and therefore, for the sake of convenience, the relevant parts are extracted hereafter : As on date, irrevocable letter of credit has not been issued and hence, the guarantee issued by us is not effective. However, we note to comply for future transactions to obtain NOC from your good office before issuance of such guarantees. .....

	20.1. A careful reading of the extract would show that ICICI Bank, perhaps, had not obtained NOC from RBI, before issuance of the counter guarantee. It is in that context that ICICI Bank chose to explain to RBI that for PBG to become operational, twin conditions provided therein had to be fulfilled. The twin conditions referred to above were, accordingly, put forth by ICICI Bank to RBI. Based on this explanation ICICI Bank went on to state that because the irrevocable LC had not been issued, its counter guarantee was not effective. The explanation, therefore, was that, since, the counter guarantee had been given to support the issuance of PBG by BOB to GOR, it would become effective only when PBG was triggered. The exposure of ICICI Bank would arise only if there was a live PBG in play. Clearly, BOB required security in the form of a counter guarantee to secure itself against a possible loss it may incur, if, when, PBG was invoked by GOR. The letter, did not, contrary to what has been submitted on behalf of BGR, imply in any way that ICICI Bank's obligation under the counter guarantee, once, triggered was dependent on the continued subsistence of the LC. 20.2. Furthermore, the record also shows that the Citi Bank, which had opened the LC in favour of BGR, albeit, at the say so of GOR had transmitted the following communication, pertaining to suspension of LC to ICICI Bank. This communication had been received, as it seems by Citi Bank from GOR. .... Referring to your email dated 08/06/2014 please be informed that applicant instructed us to hold any payment under the subject LC until beneficiary fulfill his obligations to complete the project and present the advance payment bank guarantee...... (emphasis is ours)

	20.3. A perusal of the aforesaid extract would show that GOR from its point of view had instructed Citi bank to hold payment under the subject LC, until BGR fulfilled its obligation to complete the project and present the Advanced Payment Bank Guarantee (APBG). Whether there was, indeed, a legal and factual basis for GOR to take such a step, and could, Citi Bank suspend the operation of an irrevocable LC, to our minds, can only be determined in an action, brought before an appropriate forum by BGR against GOR. Suffice it to say that prima facie, a dispute did obtain between GOR and BGR, in respect of the main contract. 20.4. Thus, for Mr.Parasaran to make an argument that the payment under the counter guarantee was dependent on the continued subsistence and/or existence of the LC, in our opinion, is an untenable submission, and hence is, accordingly, rejected. Point No.(II) : 21. This brings us to the other issue as to whether this is a case, which falls under the category of irretrievable injury and/or irretrievable harm or injustice. 21.1. The argument with regard to irretrievable injury is advanced by BGR in the background of the situation obtaining in Iraq. To establish this submission, the following broad averments have been made by BGR in its plaint : 21.2. The record shows that force majeure forms part of PC of the contract, and accordingly, a provision is incorporated in that behalf under PC 37. The definition of force majeure clause is contained in PC 37.1. ; the relevant part of which, reads as follows : (emphasis is ours)

	21.3. The contract, in the instant case, was entered into between BGR and GOR on 13.10.2013. There was strife in Iraq even at that point in time. The project in issue was being executed in place known as "Nasiriyah". It is, perhaps, in this background that PC 37.1. provided that the current situation in Iraq would not be considered as a force majeure situation. 21.4. The concept of force majeure under Indian law is encapsulated in Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. It, in sum, deals with the doctrine of frustration. In other words, what a Court is required to ascertain is : whether or not, after the contract was executed between the parties, its performance became impossible, and therefore, the obligation undertaken stood discharged on account of changed circumstances. In coming to a conclusion one way or the other, the Court has to take into account the nature of the contract and the surrounding circumstances, in which, it was made, bearing in mind that parties would have entered into bargain based on a premise that a particular state of affairs would continue to subsist. The crucial aspect of this exercise, is that, the altered conditions are such that had they been factored in, would the parties have still entered into a contract. In the instant case, parties had entered into the subject contract knowing fully well that there was strife in Iraq. It was not a circumstance which occurred after the contract was executed between BGR and GOR. 21.5. The argument advanced by Mr.Parasaran that the scale of the strife had increased with the introduction of ISIS, to our minds, cannot lead to the invocation of doctrine of frustration and thus, in a sense, relieve BGR from its obligations under the contract. The reason for this, is that, impossibility of performance, which stems from alteration of circumstances should be such that parties could not have contemplated the change at the time of execution of the contract. The observations made by the Supreme Court in this behalf in its judgement rendered in Naihati Jute Mills V. Khyaliram, AIR 1968 SC 522, being apposite, are extracted hereafter : 22.1. The aforesaid circumstances, according to us, more than anything else show that there is access available to legal fora in Iraq, contrary to what has been portrayed before us by BGR. Therefore, the submission advanced on behalf of BGR that conditions in Iraq were such that BGR's employees could not visit Iraq, and thus, ensure that the project was executed, prima facie, does not appear to be correct. 22.2. Furthermore, in response to the letter dated 21.06.2015, BGR, in its letter dated 23.06.2015, inter alia, indicated to GOR that in order to bring about novation, its personnel were willing to travel to Iraq. Therefore, what emerges from this correspondence is that, the situation, where the project is located, i.e., Nasiriyah, had not reached a point, from which, the project could not be taken forward. The fact that a Chinese company could step into BGR's shoes to take the project forward shows that the execution of the project had not reached a point of frustration, as was sought to be projected before us by Mr.Parasaran. 22.3. This apart, what has to be borne in mind in arriving at a conclusion either way, an aspect which we had also put to Mr.Parasaran is, as to why BGR had not taken any steps towards securing its interest, if its contention was that payment under the counter guarantee by ICICI Bank and/or qua the PBG by BOB to GOR, would cause irretrievable injury. We received no satisfactory answer to this question, instead what we have is a suit for injunction being instituted to restrain payment under an unconditional counter guarantee. BGR, admittedly, has taken no steps qua Citi Bank which according to it had collaborated with GOR in suspending and/or withdrawing unilaterally an unconditional LC. 22.4. To our minds, therefore this submission of Mr.Parasaran is flawed, as in order to obtain an injunction against invocation of an unconditional BG, the party concerned should be able to show that if money is paid by the concerned Bank, there is no way it could retrieve the money or, in other words, repair, the damage caused to it. 22.5. It is BGR's own stand that under the contract executed with GOR, the provision for security in the form of an irrevocable LC was provided, precisely, for the reasons that if, its interest were harmed, on account of violation of the terms of the contract, which would include, to our minds, the purported unlawful invocation of the BG, it would be able to protect itself against such harm and/or injury by calling upon the bank, which had furnished the irrevocable LC to pay the equivalent money value to it. However, the withdrawal of LC, which may or may not be legal, as that part of the matter is not before us, cannot be the reason to prevent ICICI Bank from honouring what was, an unconditional counter gurantee. As alluded hereinabove, the condition pertaining to opening of LC does not find mention in the counter guarantee. The said condition obtains only in the PBG, and as indicated hitherto, the factum of opening of the LC, apart from the execution of the contract, was only a trigger for infusing life into the PBG and not to ensure its continued operability. 22.1. Therefore, the refusal by ECGC, to grant insurance cover for the project at Iraq, in our view, has no bearing on this aspect of the matter. The ECGC's refusal to enter into a contract with BGR, to grant insurance cover cannot lead us to conclude that irretrievable injury, or, injustice would be caused to BGR, if payment is made by ICICI Bank under the counter guarantee to BOB. ECGC's refusal to give insurance cover could well be pivoted on commercials which may have nothing to do with the then prevailing situation in Iraq. Point No.III : 23. On the aspect of jurisdiction, BGR avers that it has obtained leave to sue, by taking recourse to appropriate proceedings. It is argued that ICICI Bank, to date, has not approached the Court for recall of the order, despite, its objection to the jurisdiction of this Court in entertaining the suit. 23.1. On the other hand, Mr.A.L.Somayaji, has argued that the only ground, on which leave to sue was sought was that the counter guarantee had been issued in Chennai. The fact that as per the counter guarantee, the jurisdiction was vested in an appropriate forum in Iraq, or the fact that the counter guarantee was subject to Iraqi laws was not disclosed in the plaint filed by BGR. 23.2. To that extent Mr.A.L.Somayaji, is right, in his contentions, which is that, the plaint does not disclose the fact that the counter guarantee was subject to Iraqi laws (See Clause 13 and 14 of the said guarantee) and that, jurisdiction with respect to the settlement of disputes was also vested in an appropriate forum in Iraq. 23.3. To counter this, Mr.Parasaran, says that jurisdiction qua the instant action, in the very least, obtained both in Iraq and in Chennai, in India, and since, Iraq was not agreed upon by parties as a place of exclusive jurisdiction, the suit could have been instituted in this Court as well. 23.4. The record in the instant matter shows that apart from the factum of issuance of counter gurantee, no other part of the cause of action has accrued in Chennai. As correctly argued on behalf of ICICI Bank, the Supreme Court in South East Asia Shipping Company Limited V. Nav Bharat Enterprises Private Limited and others , 1996 (3) SCC 443, has categorically held that if all other ingredients which form part of the cause of action, which includes, the place, where the contract is executed and the place where it is required to be performed fall outside the jurisdiction of the Court, which entertains the suit, the suit cannot be sustained on the mere ground that the BG, which is issued, pursuant to the main contract is issued from a place, falling within the territorial jurisdiction of the Court in which the action is instituted. The relevant observations made by the Supreme Court in this behalf are set forth hereafter : Point No.V : (emphasis is ours)

	32.3. The argument of Mr.Parasaran, in this behalf, that ICICI Bank had a complete set of papers, and therefore, inadvertent failure to supply complete set of documents did not impact its interest is untenable. The reason being the party which seeks equitable relief should make a complete disclosure and not depend upon what the defendant chooses to do, as more often than not ex parte interlocutory reliefs are sought when the opposite side is not present in Court to assist, which is, exactly, what happened in this case. Besides in this case, ICICI Bank not being a party to the contract obtaining between BGR and GOR suffered the handicap of, perhaps, being unfamiliar with the nuances of each clause obtaining in the main contract. For instance, the exception provided in the force majeure clause may not have come to the notice of ICICI Bank, immediately, and therefore it did not act with sufficient alacrity. But, would that condone the infraction committed by BGR. In our view, the answer has to be in the negative. A party seeking relief in equity - should on its own, show candour in disclosing every aspect of the matter, without relying upon the information, which may or may not be in possession of the defendant. 32.4. We may also note that ICICI Bank, in this behalf, did furnish an explanation, which is that, since, the documents were voluminous, it did not notice this aspect of the matter, to begin with, as they assumed that BGR would have placed on record, the entire contract and not exclude portions, which did not further its interest. 32.5. We must indicate herein that on the aspect of materiality, on behalf of BGR, reliance has been placed on the judgement of the Supreme Court rendered in the case of : S.J.S.Business Enterprises (P) Ltd. V. State of Bihar and Others , (2004) 7 SCC 166. 32.6. According to us, the judgement is, completely, distinguishable on facts. In that case, the appellant before the Court was aggrieved by the fact that the learned Single Judge had dismissed its writ petition on the ground that a suit had been preferred by it for a similar relief. The Supreme Court noted the fact that at the relevant point in time, when, the writ petition came up for hearing, the suit had already been withdrawn, though, it was pending, when, the interim order was passed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court. It is, in this context, that the Supreme Court ruled that the failure to mention this aspect of the matter did not amount to material suppression. The rationale furnished by the Supreme Court was that, a suit was an alternative remedy, and that, merely because an alternative remedy existed, it did not bar the Writ Court from entertaining a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution. 32.7. Furthermore, it was noted that an alternative remedy in that case , though, taken recourse to, had not been pursued, and therefore, was not a material fact, which could not have impacted the view that the Writ Court would have taken in the petition before it. In the instant case, the contrary is true. The leave to sue was obtained by suppressing documents and clauses obtaining in the contract, which, inter alia, adverted to jurisdiction, arbitration and force majeure conditions. Thus, as indicated above, the decision in S.J.S.Business Enterprises would not help the cause of the appellant. 32.8. We may indicate that during the course of arguments on behalf of BGR, no submission was made that the counter guarantee was conditional in nature. In the written submission, an argumet has been advanced on this score. According to us, a mere perusal of the terms of the counter guarantee would show that it is an unconditional guarantee, which is required to be honoured by ICICI Bank on a first written demand made in that bahalf. The argument advanced on behalf of BGR, albeit, to the contrary is, completely, unsustainable. 32.9. Furthermore, the reliance placed on the letter dated 08.01.2014, in this regard, is completely, misconceived. As noticed above by us, this is a letter sent by the ICICI Bank to RBI explaining as to why NOC had not been obtained by it before issuance of the counter guarantee. A perusal of the letter would show that ICICI Bank has adverted to the terms of the PBG to establish that the PBG would become operational only on signing of the main contract and upon issuance of an irrevocable LC. The reason being the counter guarantee was issued to secure the interest of BOB, in case PBG was invoked by GOR. As discussed above, this would not make the counter guarantee conditional, as is sought to be contended on behalf of BGR. 33. In addition, according to us, even the balance of convenience is not in BGR's favour, as, if, ICICI Bank were not to honour the counter guarantee, it would possibly suffer a huge loss both monetarily and otherwise. BOB has already indicated to ICICI Bank, as noted above, that it would be charging interest at the rate of 9% per annum and may, also perhaps, sue ICICI Bank for damages, including loss caused to its reputation. Therefore, the balance of convenience is squarely in favour of ICICI Bank, and against BGR. 34. As regards, the last aspect, which is, whether lifting the injunction, would cause irretrievable harm to BGR, has already been answered by us. 35. We emphasise though that we are not persuaded to hold that BGR would suffer irretrievable harm at the end of the day. The claim is monetary in nature. ICICI Bank is located within the jurisdiction of this Court. The matter is still to be tried. Furthermore, as indicated above, BGR has not as yet, for reasons best known to it, taken recourse to an appropriate remedy vis-a-vis suspension and/or withdrawal of LC, which is, irrevocable, against parties concerned, including Citi Bank. 36. For the foregoing reasons, we are in agreement with the conclusion reached by the learned Single Judge, via the impugned judgement and decree. 37. The appeals are, accordingly, dismissed. Resultantly, all pending applications shall stand closed and order dated 25.10.2017, shall stand dissolved. There shall, however, be no order as to costs.