Mrs. Kiran Sibal, Member. Present:- 2. The instant appeal has been preferred by the

appellant/OP No.1 to challenge therein order dated 20.02.2018

passed by District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum,

Patiala (in short, "the District Forum"), whereby the complaint

filed by the respondent No.1/complainant was allowed and OPs

were directed to provide the Apple i phone 6 (16-GB Grey

Space) to him at Rs.60/- only and further to pay a consolidated

amount of compensation and litigation expenses to the tune of

Rs.2,000/- only within 30 days from the date of the receipt of

copy of the order. Facts of the Complaint No.347 of 2016 3. The factual matrix of the matter in brief, as averred in the

complaint, are that the complainant placed an order of Apple

iphone 6 (16 GB-space Grey) with OP No.1 on 09.03.2016 vide

order number 1590090340 under the offer of OP, which was to

be delivered by OP No.2. The cost of the mobile set in question

was Rs.52,000/- and there was a discount of Rs.51,965/- on the

same, as such, he was to pay an amount of Rs.35/- along with

a sum of Rs.25/- as delivery charges and the said amount was

deducted from his PAYTM wallet, vide Annexure C-1. On the

confirmation of the order of the mobile set on the website it was F.A. No.187 of 2018 4 assured by OP No.1 that "the order has been successfully

placed and we will ship it soon. You will receive a separate

Email once your order ships". The acknowledgment of the e-

mail is Annexure C-2. Thereafter, on 10.03.2016, he received

an email from OP No.1, vide which OP expressed its inability to

deliver the order for Apple i phone 6, 16 GB due to unavoidable

circumstances and cancelled the order vide e-mail dated

10.03.2016 Annexure C-3. He sent an email to OP No.1 to

know about the circumstances under which the order could not

be delivered, but to no effect. On 18.07.2016, he also served

legal notice upon OP No.1, but of no avail. Complainant alleged

deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on the part of the

OPs and prayed that the OPs be directed to provide Apple

iphone 6 (16 GB) to him and further prayed for compensation

for mental harassment and agony and litigation expenses.

Defence of the Opposite Parties 4. Upon notice, OP No.1 appeared through counsel and filed

its reply to the complaint. Whereas, OP No.2 did not appear

despite service and was proceeded against ex-parte on

25.01.2017 by the District Forum. 5. OP No.1 filed its separate written reply. In preliminary

objections it stated that OP No.1 is an intermediary as defined

in Section 79 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and

exempted from liability for third party information, data or F.A. No.187 of 2018 5 communication link made available or hosted by it. Neither OP

No.1 is responsible for the products that are listed on the

website nor Paytm intervenes or influence any customer in any

manner. Being an intermediary, OP No.1 is not liable for the act

of Merchant i.e. OP no.2, which inadvertently entered Rs.35/- in

the column of MRP instead of quantity and entered Rs.36,899/-

in the place of quantity instead of MRP. OP No.2 shall be solely

responsible and liable for any complaints and queries of buyers

with respect to the products booked. Hence, for any liability with

respect to the ordered product shall lies with the merchant. It is

impossible for any intermediary like the appellant herein to

monitor millions of products being displayed on its portal. The

intermediary, upon receipt of a specific knowledge, can only

take actions of disabling the product in question from its portal

as per provisions contained in Information Technology

(Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules 2011. It is further submitted

that the appellant has also, as a policy of fair play, blocked the

merchant from using the online platform provided by OP No.1

and has also taken stringent action of delisting against the

seller. The complaint is alleged to be frivolous and vexatious

and is liable to be dismissed. It was further averred that it does

not sell or offer to sell any product. It merely provides a

technology platform (online market place) where independent

third party sellers can list their products for sale themselves. OP

No.1 is not directly involved in the sale transaction between the F.A. No.187 of 2018 6 customer and seller, which is exclusive domain of Merchant and

customers. The goods have been bought by complainant from

an independent third party seller i.e. OP No.2, who sold its

product through website of OP No.1. Accordingly, complainant

does not fall within the definition of consumer of OP No.1. OP

No.1 had specifically made it clear to the complainant that

certain orders booked on the platform of OP No.1, the sellers

are unable to accept and service and these may need to be

cancelled as per clause 6 of terms and conditions as available

on the website of OP No.1, which was duly accepted by him

while placing the order. On merits, OP No.1 stated that it was

not a warrantor of the product, nor was liable for any

manufacturing defect. It was further stated that there was no

privity of contract between the complainant and Paytm. It was

further stated that the OP duly replied to the email written by the

complainant and informed him about the real picture to the

effect that his order had been cancelled. OP No.1 denied any

deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on its part by

denying the other averments of the complainant and prayed for

dismissal of the complaint with cost. Finding of the District Forum 6. Both the sides produced evidence in support of their

respective averments before the District Forum, which after

going through the same and hearing learned counsel on their F.A. No.187 of 2018 7 behalf, allowed the complaint against opposite parties, vide

impugned order. Hence, the appeal. Contentions of the Parties 7. We have heard learned counsel for the appellant as

respondents were proceeded ex-parte vide orders dated

19.03.2019 & 23.07.2019. We have carefully gone through the

records of the case. 8. Learned counsel for the appellant/opposite party No.1

vehemently contended that appellant, being the owner of the

website www.paytm.com and the Mobile Application 'Paytm',

acts as a platform for different sellers like respondent No.2 to

sell their products and for different buyers like respondent No.1

to access and purchase amongst variety of goods offered by

various sellers on the terms and conditions as enumerated by

them on the website of appellant/Paytm. Appellant/Paytm

neither sells nor offers to sell any products. It merely provides a

technology platform (an online marketplace) where independent

third party sellers i.e. respondent No.2) can list their products

for sale. The sellers themselves (and not Paytm) manage

display of their (sellers/merchants) goods, it's pricing, it's

catalogue and orders placed by customers online and are

responsible for the sale/purchase of their products on the

website. Appellant is neither responsible for the products that

are listed on the website by various third party sellers, nor does F.A. No.187 of 2018 8 Paytm intervene or influence any customers in any manner

about its pricing etc. Appellant/Paytm is not directly involved in

the sale transaction between the customer (respondent No.1)

and seller (Respondent No.2), which is exclusive domain of

Merchant and customers. Appellant has contended that District

Forum has wrongly stated in the impugned order in para 8 that

the contract of purchase of Apple iPhone was concluded at the

time when payment of Rs.60/- was made by respondent

No.1/complainant and accepted by appellant. The District

Forum has also wrongly observed that it was not open for OP

No.1 (appellant) to cancel the order of its own without the

consent of respondent No.1. The fact of the matter is that the

appellant is an intermediary as defined in the Section 79 of the

Information Technology Act, 2000, and exempted from liability

for third party information, data or communication link made

available or hosted by it, which is reproduced below:- Explanation- For the purpose of this section, the expression

"third party information" means any information dealt with by an F.A. No.187 of 2018 10 intermediary in his capacity as an intermediary. As stated

above, being an intermediary. In view of the above, it is contended that the appellant/OP No.1

herein cannot be held liable for the act of Merchant i.e.

Respondent No.2, who has inadvertently, entered Rs.35/- in the

column of 'Selling Price' instead of quantity and entered

Rs.52,000/- in the place of quantity instead of 'Selling Price'.

Learned counsel for the appellant relied upon the case reported

as " Harnam Singh and Ors. Vs. Smt. Purbi Devi and Ors ",

AIR 2000 HP 108, wherein it has been held as under :- It has been also agitated that the District Forum has failed to

consider the fact that the Merchant i.e. respondent No.2 in the

present appeal is solely responsible and liable for any

complaints and queries of Buyers with respect to the products

booked. Hence for any liability with respect to the ordered

product lies with respondent No.2. It is impossible for any

intermediary like the appellant herein to monitor millions of F.A. No.187 of 2018 11 products being displayed on its portal. The intermediary, upon

receipt of a specific knowledge, can only take actions of

disabling the product in question from its portal as per

provisions contained in Information Technology (Intermediaries

Guidelines) Rules 2011 and as an extra caution, though not

bound by law to terminate the contractual relationship with the

concerned merchant. It is further submitted that the appellant

has also, as a policy of fair play, blocked the merchant from

using the online platform provided by the appellant and has also

taken stringent action of delisting of concerned products of the

respondent No.2. Passing the judgment against the appellant

and ignoring such a vital fact is not judicious and is contrary to

law. It has been further alleged that the District Forum has

allowed the complaint and has directed both the opposite

parties to provide the ordered Apple i-phone 6 (16 GB) to the

complainant at a price of Rs.60/- only along with the

consolidated litigation cost and compensation of Rs.2,000/-.

The fact of the matter is that, admittedly, the amount of Rs.60/-

paid by the complainant at the time of booking the order for

purchasing the alleged product already stands refunded vide

transaction id.1590090340 on dated 09.03.2016 by the

appellant and the same has also been consumed by the

complainant. The appellant being merely an online market place

platform does not have any control or ownership of the product

under contention nor have any privity to contract and the F.A. No.187 of 2018 12 products are listed, packed and delivered by the sellers like

respondent No.2 themselves. Hence, it would not be in the

interest of justice to direct the appellant to supply the alleged

product for Rs.60/- that too with no fault on the part of the

appellant. Even otherwise, the consumer complaint bearing

no.347/2016 was not maintainable as respondent no.1 under

the grab of claiming deficiency of service against OP has

prayed for specific performance as follows which is not

permissible in light of the various judgments of the Apex Court.

Appellant had specifically made it clear to respondent No.1 that

certain orders booked on the platform of appellant (Paytm), the

seller are unable to accept and service and these may need to

be cancelled as per "Clause 6" of terms and conditions as

available in the website of the opposite party which was duly

accepted by the complainant while placing the order. It is further

submitted that the appellant has refunded the ordered amount

to the complainant bank account as per the terms and

conditions of the policy. The "Clause 6" of the terms and

conditions is reproduced below :- Cancellation by Paytm: There may be certain orders that
 Paytm Merchant partners are unable to accept and
 service and these may need to be cancelled. Some
 situations that may result in your order being cancelled
 include, non-availability of the product or quantities
 ordered by you, non-availability of the delivery service in
 the address to which product is required to be shipped,
 inaccuracies or errors in pricing information specified by
 our merchant partners, or problems identified by Paytm's F.A. No.187 of 2018 13 credit and fraud avoidance department. Paytm may also
 require additional verifications or information before
 accepting any order. Paytm will contact you if all or any
 portion of your order is cancelled or if additional
 information is required to accept your order. If your order
 is cancelled after your credit card or bank account has
 been charged, the said amount will be reversed back in
 your credit card/bank account. A promo code, once used
 shall not be refunded in case of cancellation of order
 either by Customer or Paytm". That passing the impugned order without appreciating the

above mentioned terms and conditions specifically agreed by

respondent No.1(complainant in the original complaint) cannot

be enforced and deserves to be set aside at once. So far as the

transaction between the complainant and opposite party No.1 is

concerned, the complainant does not fall within the definition of

"consumer" under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 .

Admittedly, the complainant has not bought any goods from

appellant (Paytm) nor any inference can be drawn to this effect

by any interpretation or analysis of the factual position

explained hereinabove. The goods have been bought by the

complainant from an independent third party seller i.e.

respondent No.2 i.e. Infinity Infomatic (Pvt) Ltd. selling its

products on the Website operated by the appellant/OP No.1.

Accordingly, the complainant does not fall within the definition of

"consumer" vis-à-vis the appellant/opposite party No.1. Further

it is pertinent to reiterate here that the appellant is merely an

online market place where independent third party sellers list

their products for sale. The appellant was neither a necessary,

nor a proper party in the consumer complaint, the consumer F.A. No.187 of 2018 14 complaint was liable to be dismissed due to misjoinder of

parties. It was averred that the District Forum has completely

overlooked the fact that the complainant has wrongfully

impleaded the appellant company. Appellant is neither

responsible for sale. Appellant is neither responsible for the

products listed on the website nor does Paytm intervene or

influence any customer in any manner about its price etc.

Hence, they are not directly involved in the said sale

transaction. Learned counsel for the appellant averred on

similar lines as stated in his appeal and prayed for dismissal of

the complaint. Consideration of Contentions 9. We have given thoughtful consideration to the contentions

raised by the learned counsel for the appellant and perused the

record carefully. 10. Admittedly, respondent No.1 booked one apple iphone 6

(16 GB Grey) vide order No.1590090340 on 09.03.2016,

originally costing Rs.52,000/- at a discounted price of Rs.35/-

along with the delivery charges of Rs.25/- from Infinity Infomatic

(Pvy) Ltd. (respondent No.2) using the online marketing place

platform of the appellant company. The product was booked by

complainant on 09.03.2016 at 08:06 PM, as per Ex.C-2, but the

same was cancelled on 10.03.2016 at 11:57 AM by OP No.1 by

sending e-mail dated 10.03.2016, vide Ex.C-3. It has been F.A. No.187 of 2018 15 alleged by respondent No.1 in the original complaint that the

appellant is guilty of deficiency in service, as the above stated

order bearing No.1590090340 was subsequently cancelled by

the appellant and the product was not delivered to him. The

complainant had made many requests to the appellant to

deliver the mobile, but all in vain. A perusal of Ex.C-3 i.e. E-mail

sent by the appellant company to the complainant reads that

"We regret to inform you that merchant Infinity Infomatic Pvt.

Ltd. is unable to deliver your order for Apple iPhone 6 16 GB

(Space Grey) due to unavoidable circumstances". It is pertinent

to mention here that the appellant has simply stated

"unavoidable circumstances", as the reason for cancellation of

the order that too of their own without seeking the consent of

the complainant before cancelling the same. They have not

produced any evidence on the record to show that the seller i.e.

Infinity Infomatics Pvt. Ltd. was responsible for the cancellation

of the order. It is assumed that there must have been some

privity of contract between the seller and the appellant company

due to which the services of the appellant company were hired

on payment basis by the appellant company, which being an

online portal, were displaying the products of the seller. We are

of the view that the appellant company cannot cancel the order

of their own on vague grounds as stated in the e-mail. 11. Appellant has interalia specifically raised certain

preliminary objections with regard to the maintainability of the F.A. No.187 of 2018 16 complaint, mis-joinder or non-joinder of necessary parties and

the law of governing the rule of intermediary that has been

contended by the counsel for the appellant. During the course

of arguments, the appellant has also referred to the section 79 of the Information Technology Act and Intermediary Rules

pleading that the directions cannot be issued to the appellant

being an Intermediary between the consumer and the seller and

also that it is not a manufacturer. 12. No doubt, the role of the appellant is that of intermediary

in the present case but it cannot be said that they have no role

to play, as the harassment has been caused to the complainant,

due to the cancellation of the said ordered product. It is general

observation that the consumers are attracted by the offers and

displays of various products on the website of such kind of

appellant company and they place their orders on good faith.

Online market place companies earn revenue each time when a

consumer click and visit on their website. Moreover, the same is

being done as per the terms and conditions between the online

portal company and the sellers for a consideration. Hence, if

appellant company can accept an order and subsequent

cancellation also makes it equally responsible and being

deficient in rendering the services. Therefore, the plea that the

intermediary should not be held liable for the acts of deficiency

in service and unfair trade practice does not find merit with us. F.A. No.187 of 2018 17 13. We have also gone through clause 6 of the terms and

conditions related to the cancellation policy of the appellant

company. It is our interpretation that the clause specifically also

states that the order may be cancelled due to "non-availability of

the product or quantities ordered, non-availability of the delivery

services on the address, where the product is required to be

shipped, inaccuracies or errors in pricing information specified

by merchant partners or problems identified by Paytm's credit

and fraud avoidance department". An inference can be drawn

that the said order was cancelled without giving any specific

reason and no evidence has been placed on record to show the

accountability of the merchant seller in this case. The

contention that complainant booked the order from an

independent third party seller, selling its product on the website

operated by the appellant, does not find merit to infer that no

harassment has been caused to the complainant. 14. In view of the above discussions, the appeal is partly

allowed and the order dated 20.02.2018 passed by the District

Forum, Patiala is modified and following directions are issued to

OP No.1:- Liberty is granted to OP no.1 to recover the said amounts from

OP No.2 in accordance with law. 15. The appellant had deposited a sum of Rs.1000/- at the

time of filing of the appeal and it further deposited a sum of

Rs.25,000/- in compliance with order dated 04.04.2018 in this

Commission. These amounts, along with interest, which has

accrued thereon, if any, be remitted by the registry to the

District Forum, after the expiry of 45 days of the sending of

certified copy of the order to them. The respondent No.1 may

approach the District Forum for the release of amounts awarded

to him, vide this order, and the District Forum may pass the

appropriate order in this regard, in accordance with law.

M.A. No.1112 of 2019 (placing on record the documents) : 16. The appellant has filed miscellaneous application no.1112

of 2019 for placing on record marketplace agreement dated

07.09.2016 between Paytm and Infinity Infomatic Pvt. Ltd.

(respondent no.2). We have perused this application

thoroughly. We are of the view that at this appellate stage this

application is not maintainable, however District Forum granted

sufficient opportunities to OP now appellant to produce

evidence, but OP/appellant failed to tender in evidence the

same before the District Forum. At the time of filing the appeal F.A. No.187 of 2018 19 appellant has failed to file any application for additional

evidence and this application, which has been filed by the

appellant at the final stage of the appeal is just to delay the

matter. Hence, we dismiss the same. First Appeal No.69 of 2018 17. Similarly, this appeal has been preferred by the

appellant/OP no.1, challenging order dated 11.01.2018 passed

by District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Patiala (in

short, "the District Forum"), whereby the complaint filed by the

respondent No.1/complainant was allowed, by directing the OPs

to provide to the complainant, the Apple i phone 6 (16 GB Grey

Space) for Rs.60/- only and further directed to pay a

consolidated amount of compensation and litigation expenses

to the tune of Rs.2000/- within 30 days from the date of the

receipt of copy of the order. Facts of the Complaint no.178 of 2016 18. Similarly in this complaint also, complainant placed an

order of Apple iphone 6 (16 GB-space Grey) with the OP on

09.03.2016 vide order number 1590151496 under the offer of

OP, which was available for an amount of Rs.35/- only along

with a sum of Rs.25/- as shipping charges. OP deducted the

said amounts from paytm account at 08:25 PM on 09.03.2016.

The said mobile phone was to be delivered by 17.03.2016 as

per the assurance given by OP at the address of the F.A. No.187 of 2018 20 complainant. It was further stated that complainant received an

e-mail on 10.03.2016 at about 11:41 AM from the OP to the

effect that his order was cancelled. Further the case of the

complainant is that though he requested the OP number of

times to deliver the product, but all in vain. He alleged

deficiency in service on the part of the OP and prayed that OP

be directed to provide the mobile phone in question i.e. Apple i

Phone 6(16 GB) to him and further to pay compensation and

litigation expenses. 19. The OP filed written reply on the similar lines, as averred

in its reply filed in complaint no.347 of 2016. 20. Both the sides produced evidence in support of their

respective averments before the District Forum, which after

going through the same and hearing learned counsel on their

behalf, allowed the complaint, vide impugned order. Hence the

appeal. 21. In view of the discussions and findings recorded in F.A.

No.187 of 2018, the present appeal is partly allowed and the

order passed by the District Forum is modified to the extent:- Liberty is granted to OP no.1 to recover the said amounts from

OP No.2 in accordance with law. 22. The appellant had deposited a sum of Rs.1000/- at the

time of filing of the appeal and it further deposited a sum of

Rs.25,000/- in compliance with order dated 04.04.2018 in this

Commission. These amounts, along with interest, which has

accrued thereon, if any, be remitted by the registry to the

District Forum, after the expiry of 45 days of the sending of

certified copy of the order to them. The respondent No.1 may

approach the District Forum for the release of amounts awarded

to him, vide this order, and the District Forum may pass the

appropriate order in this regard, in accordance with law.

M.A. No.1111 of 2019 (placing on record the documents) : 23. The appellant has filed miscellaneous application no.1111

of 2019 for placing on record marketplace agreement dated

07.09.2016 between Paytm and Infinity Infomatic Pvt. Ltd.

(respondent no.2). We have perused this application

thoroughly. We are of the view that at this appellate stage this

application is not maintainable, however District Forum granted

sufficient opportunities to OP now appellant to produce

evidence, but OP/appellant failed to tender in evidence the

same before the District Forum. At the time of filing the appeal

appellant has failed to file any application for additional

evidence and this application, which has been filed by the F.A. No.187 of 2018 22 appellant at the final stage of the appeal is just to delay the

matter. Hence, we dismiss the same. 24. The appeals could not be decided within the statutory

period due to heavy pendency of court cases. (RAJINDER KUMAR GOYAL)
 PRESIDING MEMBER

 (MRS. KIRAN SIBAL)
 MEMBER
August 5, 2019. SK/-