1. Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned A.G.A. and perused the record. 2. It is submitted by learned counsel for applicant that F.I.R has been lodged against the applicant on the allegation of committing fraud with regard to payment made in the paytm account of the informant. It is further submitted that the accused-applicant is innocent and the FIR has been lodged after two months of the alleged incident. Applicant has not committed any offence as alleged by the informant, there is no any transaction from the bank account of the applicant to the informant. Co-accused, Vijay Garg has already been granted bail by this Court vide order dated 31.01.2024. There is no independent eye witness of the alleged recovery which shows that no recovery has been made from the applicant. The applicant has criminal history of one case in which applicant has been granted bail by this Court. The applicant is innocent and he is languishing in jail since 18.12.2023, in case he is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail and will cooperate in the trial. 3. Learned A.G.A. for the State has opposed the prayer for bail but does not dispute the factual matrix of the case. 4. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, ground of parity, nature of offence, evidence, complicity of the accused, submissions of learned counsels for the parties and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, this Court is of the view that the applicants have made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed. 5. Let the applicant- Gautam Sharma, involved in Case Crime No. 541 of 2023, under Section 420 IPC, Section 66-C , 66-D IT Act, Police Station- Garhmukteshwar, District- Hapur be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to the following conditions:- 6. In case of breach of any of the above condition, the prosecution shall be at liberty to move bail cancellation application before this Court. Order Date :- 12.3.2024
 
Saif