This petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India
seeking has been filed following relief:- 2. It is submitted by the counsel for the petitioner that some
fraudester had transferred Rs.19,999/- in the pension account of the 3 petitioner and accordingly his entire bank pension account has been
freezed, as a result, it has created financial hardship to the petitioner
without any fraud on his part. 3. The respondents No.1 and 2 have filed their return which reads as
under. 4,999/-. This was confirmed from the copy of statement 4 of the petitioner received from paytm as well as from
 the State Bank of India. Copy of the statement received
 from paytm is annexed herewith and marked as
 Annexure-R-2/2 and Copy of the statement of the State
 Bank of India is annexed herewith and marked as
 Annexure-R-2/3. 5. That, in order to obtain copy of bank statement of the
 petitioner so as to track the movement of funds from the
 bank account of the complainant an email dated
 24.07.2017 was sent to the respondent bank requesting
 for copy of the statement. Copy of the email dated
 24.07.2017 is annexed herewith and marked as
 Annexure-R-2/4. 6. However, as in the petition itself the petitioner is
 ready to have his account freeze to the extent of Rs.
 19,999, which is the siphoned amount therefore, to that
 extent the bank may be directed to block the petitioner's
 account." 4. Additional documents in terms of order dated 12.09.2019 has
been filed which reads as under: 2. That, the attachment along with the reminder email
 dated 10.03.2017 issued to Paytm is a letter dated
 23.12.2016 earlier written to Paytm requesting for
 account statement. Copy of the letter dated 23.12.2016
 which was attached with the reminder dated 10.03.2017
 is annexed herewith and marked as Annexure-A.
 PRAYER
 In the light of the foregoing fact and circumstances it is
 most humbly prayed that the instant application may
 kindly be allowed and the documents be taken on
 record" 6. It is clearly submitted by Shri Jitesh Sharma, Advocate that the
bank account of the petitioner was never directed to be freezed. Only the
information like IP login logs, Merchant details, Merchant Account
Number with accruing Bank and From which place/city these purchase
has been done and customer related summary of given Transactions with 7 Date and Time (IST) Of date 17.12.2016 were sought. 7. Thus, it is submitted by the counsel for the respondents that they
have no objection if the petitioner is permitted to operate his bank
account No.11159105423 maintained in State Bank of India of
Madhupur Branch, District Deoghar(Jharkhand). 8. Heard the learned counsel for the parties. 9. The petitioner has a bank Account in State Bank of India, District
Deoghar, Jharkhand. No instructions were ever issued by the
respondents No.1 and 2 to the concerning Bank to freeze the bank
account. Thus, it is clear that respondent No.4 has freezed the bank
account under some mis-conception of fact. 10. Article 226 of the Constitution of India reads as Under:- [(3) Where any party against whom an interim order,
 whether by way of injunction or stay or in any other
 manner, is made on, or in any proceedings relating to,
 a petition under clause (1), without (a) furnishing to
 such party copies of such petition and all documents
 in support of the plea for such interim order; and (b) giving such party an opportunity of being heard,
 makes an application to the High Court for the
 vacation of such order and furnishes a copy of such
 application to the party in whose favour such order
 has been made or the counsel of such party, the High
 Court shall dispose of the application within a period
 of two weeks from the date on which it is received or
 from the date on which the copy of such application is
 so furnished, whichever is later, or where the High
 Court is closed on the last day of that period, before
 the expiry of the next day afterwards on which the
 High Court is open; and if the application is not so
 disposed of, the interim order shall, on the expiry of
 that period, or, as the case may be, the expiry of the
 said next day, stand vacated. [(4)] The power conferred on a High Court by his
 article shall not be in derogation of the power
 conferred on the Supreme Court by clause (2) of article 32.] 11. It is clear from Article 226(2) of the Constitution of India that in
case if any cause of action has arisen wholly or in part within the
territorial jurisdiction of this High Court, then this Court can entertain
the writ petition. However, in view of the specific statements made by
the counsel for the State that cyber cell had never directed for freezing
the bank account, therefore, it is clear that no part of cause of action has
arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court because it appears
that State Bank of India of Madhupur Branch, District Deoghar has
freezed the bank account on its own without any direction from any 9 authority which is amenable to the territorial jurisdiction of this Bench. 12. Since the respondent No.4 is situated beyond the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court and in absence of an instructions from any of
 the authority functioning within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court,
 this Court is of the considered opinion that this Court has no territorial
 jurisdiction to entertain the lis involved in the present case. Accordingly,
 the petition is dismissed on the ground of lack of territorial jurisdiction.
 The petitioner is free to take legal recourse which may be available to
 him including approaching the concerning authority. 13. Since, State Bank of India Branch Madhupur, District Deoghar,
 Jharkhand is not the jurisdiction of this High Court, this Court cannot
 direct the concerning bank and accordingly. (G.S. AHLUWALIA)
 JUDGE
mani

 SUBASRI
 MANI
 2022.07.05
 20:32:07 -07'00'