% 06.02.2024 1. This is a petition under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 1996 ("Act 1996") seeking appointment of an Arbitrator to
 adjudicate the disputes between the parties arising out of Binding Term
 Sheets dated 10.05.2021. 2. The binding term sheet is executed between the petitioner and one Mr.
 Manjiv Singh, acting as chairman of the respondent company. The term
 sheet pertains to supply of medical equipment and oxygen concentrators.
 This term sheet is stated to be the contract between the parties and contains
 the arbitration Clause which reads as under:- 3. Mr. Nandrajog, learned counsel appearing for the respondent states
 that Mr. Manjiv Singh had no authority to enter into a binding term sheet qua
 the respondent company. The e-mails exchanged between the parties further
 show that supply has been made to another company i.e. M/s Deckmount
 Electronics Pvt. Ltd. and not to the respondent company. 4. He further states that since Mr. Manjiv Singh had played a fraud on
 the respondent company, a complaint was made against Mr. Manjiv Singh as
 well as the petitioner company and the order under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.
 has been passed directing the registration of FIR against them. Hence, he
 states that as there are allegations of fraud which goes to the root of the
 matter and as there is no arbitration agreement between the petitioner and
 the respondent company, the proceeding cannot lie. 5. He further states that there are e-mails on record which show that the
 petitioner themselves wanted to treat the binding term sheet as null and void
 and enter into a fresh contract for which they had also exchanged drafts. He
 relies on the judgment " A.Ayyasamy vs. A. Paramasivam and Others " 6. Mr. Datt, learned counsel for the petitioner relies on Para 5 of the
 reply which reads as under:- 7. He also relies upon the order and proforma invoice raised by the
 respondent company for supply of the medical equipment. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:41:51 8. I have heard learned counsel for the parties. 9. The term sheet is not executed on the letter head of the company or
 the stamp. In para h of the reply, the respondent has stated as under:- 10. Therefore, it is admitted by the respondent that Mr. Manjiv Singh had
 an honorary appointment with the respondent company. The question with
 respect to the role of Mr. Manjiv Singh and whether Mr. Manjiv Singh had
 any authority to bind the respondent company is an internal issue which will
 be decided by the arbitrator after recording of evidence. 11. It is admitted that the signature of Mr. Manjiv Singh on the binding
 term sheets does not deny the fact that he had an honorary appointment with
 the respondent-company. 12. For the said reasons, the reliance on A. Ayyasamy (supra) will not
 help the respondent as in the present case, the fraud as alleged by the
 respondent is regarding its internal management and does not go to the root
 of the contract. This Court while deciding a petition under Section 11 is only
 required to see the existence of an Arbitration Clause. In Re, 2023 SCC
 OnLine SC 1666, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held: 13. Hence, the petition needs to be allowed. 14. The observations made herein above are only for the purposes of
 deciding this petition and will have no bearing on the merits of the matter
 including Section 16 of the Act 1996 application if and when filed by the
 respondent. 15. For the said reasons, the petition is allowed. Since the parties are still
 having disputes between them, the following directions are issued:- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:41:51
 International Arbitration Centre, Delhi High Court, Sher Shah Road,
 New Delhi hereinafter, referred to as the 'DIAC'). The remuneration
 of the learned Arbitrator shall be in terms of the Fourth Schedule of
 the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996 . iii) The learned Arbitrator is requested to furnish a declaration in
 terms of Section 12 of the Act prior to entering into the reference. iv) It is made clear that all the rights and contentions of the parties,
 including as to the arbitrability of any of the claim, any other
 preliminary objection, as well as claims on merits of the dispute of
 either of the parties, are left open for adjudication by the learned
 arbitrator. v) The parties shall approach the learned Arbitrator within two
 weeks from today. 16. The petition is allowed and disposed of in the aforesaid terms. JASMEET SINGH, J
 FEBRUARY 6, 2024/NG

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2024 at 21:41:51