This petition under Section 528 of the BNSS, 2023 is filed for
 quashing the FIR registered at Crime No. 151 /2024 at P.S. Khilchipur,
 District - Rajgarh for offence punishable under Sections 420 and 406 of
 IPC alongwith subsequent proceedings. 2. The exposition of facts, in brief, giving rise to the present petition is
 as under: 3. Learned counsel for the petitioners, in addition to the grounds
 mentioned in the petition, submitted that the alleged offence is not
 committed by the petitioners. The dispute between the parties is
 predominantly civil in nature, which is given color of criminal prosecution
 to pressurize the petitioners. Learned counsel further contended that the
 dispute relates to commercial transactions of sale of goods, therefore, the
 offence punishable under sections 420 and 406 of the IPC is not made out
 against the petitioners. The continuation of investigation would cause
 serious prejudice to the petitioners., learned counsel for the petitioners
 relied upon the order dated 16.05.2025 passed in MCRC no. 35544 of
 2019 [ Sushree Shehal and Others Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and
 Others ] and the order dated 05.05.2025 passed in MCRC no. 19202 of
 2024 [ Gauri Rahul Takalkar and Others Vs. Rahul Dilip Takalkar ] to
 butress his contentions. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:30844 3 4. Per-contra, learned counsel for the State ably assisted by learned
 Counsel for objector opposed the petition and submitted that the petitioners
 had defrauded various famers. They have forged the purchase slips
 showing the purchase of crops from 161 farmers and fled away with
 amounts to the tune of Rs. 2,32,10,000/-, therefore, the offences punishable
 under sections 409 and 468 of IPC are prima-facie made out against the
 petitioners. The investigation is under way. The petition is meritless. 5. Heard, learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. 6. The section 420 IPC deals with the cheating by dishonestly inducing
 delivery of property. The petitioners' failure to pay the outstanding money
 towards purchase of crops has led to charges of cheating. Mere non-
 performance of the contract or inaction or deferment in payment in
 compliance with the promise may provide cause of action for specific
 performance of the contract or recovery of money but dishonest intention
 to cheat or fraudulent intention to misappropriate from inception cannot be
 inferred from these actions in case of continuing transaction. Mere non-
 payment or underpayment of the price of the goods by itself does not
 amount to commission of an offence of cheating or criminal breach of
 trust. ( Vir Prakash Sharma v. Anil Kumar Agarwal , (2007) 7 SCC 373; Ashok Kumar Jain v. State of Gujarat , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 998 relied) 7. In the case of International Advance Research Centre for P.M. &
 N.M. Vs. Nimra Cerglass Technics (P)Ltd. & Anr. reported in (2016) 1
 SCC 348 , the Supreme Court held as under: (ii) dishonest inducement to deliver property or to make, alter or destroy any
 valuable security or anything which is sealed or signed or is capable of being
 converted into a valuable security; and (iii) mens rea of the accused at the time
 of making the inducement. The making of a false representation is one of the
 essential ingredients to constitute the offence of cheating under Section 420 IPC. In order to bring a case for the offence of cheating, it is not merely
 sufficient to prove that a false representation had been made, but, it is further
 necessary to prove that the representation was false to the knowledge of the
 accused and was made in order to deceive the complainant. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:30844 4 16. The distinction between mere breach of contract and the cheating
 would depend upon the intention of the accused at the time of alleged
 inducement. If it is established that the intention of the accused was dishonest at
 the very time when he made a promise and entered into a transaction with the
 complainant to part with his property or money, then the liability is criminal and
 the accused is guilty of the offence of cheating. On the other hand, if all that is
 established is that a representation made by the accused has subsequently not
 been kept, criminal liability cannot be foisted on the accused and the only right
 which the complainant acquires is the remedy for breach of contract in a civil
 court. Mere breach of contract cannot give rise to criminal prosecution for
 cheating unless fraudulent or dishonest intention is shown at the beginning of
 the transaction. In S.W. Palanitkar v. State of Bihar [(2002) 1 SCC 241 : 2002
 SCC (Cri) 129] , this Court held as under : (SCC p. 250, para 21
 "21. ... In order to constitute an offence of cheating, the
 intention to deceive should be in existence at the time when the
 inducement was made. It is necessary to show that a person had
 fraudulent or dishonest intention at the time of making the promise, to
 say that he committed an act of cheating. A mere failure to keep up
 promise subsequently cannot be presumed as an act leading to
 cheating." The above view in Palanitkar case (2002) 1 SCC 241 was referred to and
 followed in Rashmi Jain v. State of U.P. (2014) 13 SCC 553. 8. In case of Hridaya Ranjan Prasad Verma v. State of Bihar (2000) 4
 SCC 168, it was held that- 9. Recently, in the case of Radheyshyam & Ors. Vs. State of
 Rajasthan & Anr. reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2311, the Supreme
 Court has held as under: 9. From the bare perusal of the FIR, it is evident that there was no act of
 cheating, that is, the complainant was nowhere fraudulently induced or
 dishonestly deceived by the petitioenrs. A commercial transaction took place
 between the parties, during which, the parties consensually agreed for the sale
 of the property of the appellants and respondent no. 2 paid the part
 consideration. The default in payment of their loan dues on part of the
 appellants is not reflective of their deceitful intention towards the complainant.
 Mere non-registration of the sale or its refusal cannot amount to cheating. The
 delivery of the advance payment towards consideration was made in
 furtherance of an Agreement to Sale and it is not the case of the respondent that
 he was in anyway deceived or duped to make such payments to the appellants.
 It is a civil dispute and gives rise to the complainant‟s right to resort to the
 remedies provided under civil law by filing a suit for specific performance. 10. Additionally, the appellants have also been accused of committing the
 offence of criminal breach of trust under Section 406 , IPC. This offence is
 defined under Section 405 , IPC as follows: "Whoever, being in any manner
 entrusted with property, or with any dominion over property, dishonestly
 misappropriates or converts to his own use that property, or dishonestly uses or
 disposes off that property in violation of any direction of law prescribing the
 mode in which such trust is to be discharged, or of any legal contract, express
 or implied, which he has made touching the discharge of such trust, or wilfully
 suffers any other person so to do, commits "criminal breach of trust"." 11. For an offence punishable under Section 406 , IPC, the following
 ingredients must exist: 12. In the present case, the appellants were not entrusted with any property by
 respondent no. 2 - complainant. The only delivery made was of part payment
 towards an Agreement to Sale between the parties. The amount paid towards
 consideration cannot be said to have been entrusted with the appellants by
 respondent no. 2. Additionally, merely because the appellants are refusing to Signature Not Verified Signed by: AMOL NIVRUTTIRAO MAHANAG Signing time: 27-10-2025 13:57:11 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:30844 6 register the sale, it does not amount to misappropriation of the advance
 payment. Since there was no entrustment of property, the offence of
 misappropriation of such property and thereby criminal breach of trust cannot
 be said to be made out. 10. Apparently, both the parties consensually agreed for the sale and
 purchase of crops on credit. They continued in transaction. The subsequent
 failure of petitioners / accused to pay the amount towards purchase of
 crops cannot lead to inference that they had fraudulent or dishonest
 intention at the beginning of the transaction. Therefore, in view of
 aforestated dictum of law the offence punishable u/S 420 and 406 of IPC is
 prima-facie not made out against the petitioner from the contents of
 impugned FIR and the material on record. 11. The Supreme Court in Mohd. Ibrahim v. State of Bihar reported in
 (2009) 8 SCC 751, observed that: In short, a person is said to have made a "false document", if (i) he made or
 executed a document claiming to be someone else or authorised by someone
 else; or (ii) he altered or tampered a document; or (iii) he obtained a document
 by practising deception, or from a person not in control of his senses. 15. The sale deeds executed by the first appellant, clearly and obviously do not
 fall under the second and third categories of "false documents". It therefore Signature Not Verified Signed by: AMOL NIVRUTTIRAO MAHANAG Signing time: 27-10-2025 13:57:11 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:30844 7 remains to be seen whether the claim of the complainant that the execution of
 sale deeds by the first accused, who was in no way connected with the land,
 amounted to committing forgery of the documents with the intention of taking
 possession of the complainant's land (and that Accused 2 to 5 as the purchaser,
 witness, scribe and stamp vendor, colluded with the first accused in execution
 and registration of the said sale deeds) would bring the case under the first
 category. 16. ... There is a fundamental difference between a person executing a sale deed
 claiming that the property conveyed is his property, and a person executing a
 sale deed by impersonating the owner or falsely claiming to be authorised or
 empowered by the owner, to execute the deed on owner's behalf. When a person
 executes a document conveying a property describing it as his, there are two
 possibilities. The first is that he bona fide believes that the property actually
 belongs to him. The second is that he may be dishonestly or fraudulently
 claiming it to be his even though he knows that it is not his property. But to fall
 under first category of "false documents", it is not sufficient that a document has
 been made or executed dishonestly or fraudulently. There is a further
 requirement that it should have been made with the intention of causing it to be
 believed that such document was made or executed by, or by the authority of a
 person, by whom or by whose authority he knows that it was not made or
 executed. 17. When a document is executed by a person claiming a property which is not
 his, he is not claiming that he is someone else nor is he claiming that he is
 authorised by someone else. Therefore, execution of such document (purporting
 to convey some property of which he is not the owner) is not execution of a
 false document as defined under Section 464 of the Code. If what is executed is
 not a false document, there is no forgery. If there is no forgery, then neither Section 467 nor Section 471 of the Code are attracted." 12. In Mir Nagvi Askari v. CBI , reported in (2009) 15 SCC 643, the
 Supreme Court observed as follows: ( Sheila Sebastian v. R. Jawaharaj , (2018) 7 SCC 581 also relied) Signature Not Verified Signed by: AMOL NIVRUTTIRAO MAHANAG Signing time: 27-10-2025 13:57:11 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:30844 8 13. The prosecution for the offences punishable under sections 467 , 468 471 of IPC is added on the basis of purchase receipts allegedly executed by
 the accused/petitioners. Clearly, the purchase receipts in question, in the
 present case, even if it be assumed to have been made dishonestly or
 fraudulently, had not been made with the intention of causing it to be
 believed that they were made by or under the authority of someone else.
 There is no allegation of alteration of the purchase receipts. Thus, in view
 of the law laid down in cases of Mohd. Ibrahim and Mir Nagvi
 Askari (supra), ingredients of "making false document" or "forgery" are
 not prima facie made out. The investigation agency was apparently swayed
 by the magnitude of the outstanding amount and the plight of farmers but
 the prosecution has to show prima facie existence of the necessary
 ingredients constituting the alleged offence. The impugned FIR, based on
 written complaint, is an attempt to clock the civil dispute of specific
 performance of contract and recovery of money for sale of goods with
 criminal prosecution for cheating, criminal breach of trust and forgery.
 Hence, the exercise of inherent jurisdiction u/Sec. 528 of the BNSS, 2023
 is needed to prevent abuse of the process of Court. 12. Consequently, this petition u/S 528 of the BNSS, 2023 is allowed.
 The impugned FIR registered at Crime No. 151 of 2024 dated 09/05/2024
 at P.S. Khilchipur, Distt. Rajgarh for offence punishable under Sections
 420 and 406 (subsequently added Sections 409 , 467 , 468 and 471 ) of the IPC , with all subsequent proceedings, is quashed. The Petitioners stands
 discharged. CC as per rules. (SANJEEV S KALGAONKAR)
 JUDGE

 amol Signature Not Verified Signed by: AMOL NIVRUTTIRAO MAHANAG Signing time: 27-10-2025 13:57:11