Prayer in the present petition, filed under Section 482 of the

 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita (BNSS), 2023, is for grant of

 anticipatory bail to the petitioner in FIR No.200 dated 03.08.2024, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 and 506 IPC, registered at Police Station Guhla,

 District Kaithal. Brief facts of the case are that the FIR in hand was registered

 on the basis of complaint moved by respondent no.2 - Ritu, alleging therein

 that one Ravi Kumar @ Ravipal @ Randeep played fraud with her by

 receiving Rs.33,90,500/- on the pretext of providing jobs to her brothers in

 the Army. The said amount was paid by the complainant through bank

 accounts, google pay and phone pay in different accounts, details whereof

 were provided to her by one Anil Kumar through his Whatsapp number.

 The accused issued fake and forged joining letters and documents. When MONIKA 2025.10.13 16:51 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM-M-38863-2025 2 the complainant demanded her money back, the said Anil Kumar refunded

 only Rs.11,50,000/- to her. During investigation, Ravi Kumar was arrested

 and it was on his disclosure statement that complicity of the petitioner was

 found and his name cropped up in the present case, with the allegation that

 he had received Rs.12,77,000/- in the bank accounts, supplied by him. Learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the

 petitioner has not been named in the FIR and no offence is made out against

 him. He has been falsely implicated in the present case by co-accused in

 connivance with the police officials. He has not received any monetary

 benefit from the complainant and had never entered into any type of

 communication with her. It has further been apprised to this Court that co-

 accused Ravi Kumar has already been granted benefit of regular bail by the

 Court of learned Additional Sessions Judge, Kaithal, vide order dated

 03.03.2025. Learned counsel further urged that the petitioner is not required

 for custodial interrogation and no recovery is to be effected from him. He

 has, therefore, prayed that the petitioner be granted concession of

 anticipatory bail. Learned State counsel, on the other hand, opposed the present

 bail petition while contending that the petitioner, along with co-accused

 Ravi Kumar, used to withdraw the money deposited by the complainant and

 he received his share amounting to Rs.6,77,000/-, out of Rs.12,77,000/-.

 The allegations levelled against the petitioner are serious in nature and his

 custodial interrogation is required for fair and proper investigation. So, he

 does not deserve concession of anticipatory bail. Heard. 2025.10.13 16:51 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM-M-38863-2025 3 The petitioner has not been named in the FIR. His name

 surfaced in the disclosure statement of co-accused, who has already been

 granted concession of regular bail. No specific role has been attributed to

 the petitioner. There is nothing on record to show the direct involvement of

 the petitioner in the offence in question. The petitioner is not having any

 criminal antecedents and no other criminal case has been registered against

 him, as clarified in the Status Report, submitted on behalf of respondent-

 State. Custodial interrogation of the petitioner is not required for any

 purpose and no useful purpose would be served by sending him behind the

 bars. Accordingly, without commenting on the merits of the case,

 the present petition is allowed. In the event of arrest, the petitioner is ordered

 to be released on bail, on furnishing bail/surety bonds, to the satisfaction of

 the Arresting Officer/Investigating Officer, subject to the conditions, as

 provided under Section 482(2) of BNSS. It will be open for the Investigating

 Officer to call the petitioner to join investigation, if so required, by issuing a

 written notice in this regard. The petitioner shall also abide by the

 conditions mentioned in Section 482(2) of the BNSS. However, nothing observed herein above shall be construed

 to be an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. The observations

 recorded above are only for the purpose of deciding the present bail petition. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of along

 with the present petition.