% 30.09.2024
 I.A. 40563/2024 (Exemption from filing original and certified copies of
 documents) 1. The present is an application under Section 151 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure, 1908 (" CPC "), on behalf of the plaintiff, seeking exemption from
 filing original/certified copies and permission to file and rely upon
 documents without proper margins, handwritten documents etc. 2. Exemption is granted, subject to all just exceptions. 3. Plaintiff shall file legible, clear, and translated copies of the
 documents, on which the plaintiff may seek to place reliance, before the next
 date of hearing. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/10/2024 at 01:05:02 4. Accordingly, the present application is disposed of.
 I.A. 40564/2024 (Exemption from instituting Pre-Institution Mediation) 5. The present is an application under Section 12A of the Commercial
 Courts Act, 2015, read with Section 151 of CPC, seeking exemption from
 undergoing Pre-Institution Mediation. 6. Having regard to the facts of the present case and in the light of the
 judgment of Supreme Court in the case of Yamini Manohar Versus T.K.D.
 Keerthi, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1382, and Division Bench of this Court in
 Chandra Kishore Chaurasia Versus RA Perfumery Works Private Ltd.,
 2022 SCC OnLine Del 3529, exemption from attempting Pre-Institution
 Mediation, is granted. 7. Accordingly, the application stands disposed of.
 I.A. 40562/2024 (under Order XI Rule 1(4) of the Commercial Courts,
 Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate Division of High Court
 Act, 2015 ) 8. This is an application under Order XI Rule 1(4) read with Section 151 CPC as amended by the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 , seeking leave to file
 additional documents. 9. The plaintiff, if wishes to file additional documents at a later stage,
 shall do so strictly as per the provisions of Commercial Courts Act, 2015 ,
 and the Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules, 2018. 10. The application is disposed of, with the aforesaid directions.
 I.A. 40612/2024 (Application seeking extension for filing hash report) 11. This is an application under Section 151 CPC seeking extension of
 time for filing Hash Report and Expert Certificate under Section 63(4)(C) of
 Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam, 2023 ("BSA"). This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/10/2024 at 01:05:02 12. In view of the averments made in the application, the same is allowed,
 and extension as sought, is granted. 13. Let the needful be done, accordingly. 14. With the aforesaid directions, the present application is disposed of.
 I.A. 40613/2024 (Exemption from advance service to the defendant nos.
 5 & 6) 15. The present is an application under Section 151 CPC, seeking
 dispensing with the requirement of advance service of paper book to the
 defendants as per Delhi High Court Practice Direction dated 03rd December,
 2019. 16. The plaintiff seeks urgent interim relief. Therefore, in the peculiar
 facts and circumstances of this case, exemption from effecting advance
 service upon the defendant, is granted. 17. For the reasons stated in the application, the same is allowed and
 disposed of. CS(COMM) 836/2024 18. Let the plaint be registered as suit. 19. Issue summons. Summons is accepted by learned counsel appearing
 for defendant no.2. 20. Upon filing of the process fee, issue summons to the other defendants
 by all permissible modes. Summons shall state that the written statement be
 filed by the defendants within thirty days from the date of receipt of
 summons. Along with the written statement, the defendants shall also file
 affidavit of admission/denial of the plaintiff's documents, without which, the
 written statement shall not be taken on record. 21. Liberty is given to the plaintiff to file replication within thirty days CS(COMM) 836/2024 Page 3 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/10/2024 at 01:05:02
 from the date of receipt of the written statement. Further, along with the
 replication, if any, filed by the plaintiff, an affidavit of admission/denial of
 documents of the defendants, be filed by the plaintiff, without which, the
 replication shall not be taken on record. If any of the parties wish to seek
 inspection of the documents, the same shall be sought and given within the
 timelines. 22. List before the Joint Registrar (Judicial) for marking of exhibits, on
 21st November, 2024. 23. List before the Court on 21st January, 2025. I.A. 40561/2024 (Application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 read
 with Section 151 of CPC) 24. The present suit has been filed for permanent injunction restraining
 trademark infringement, copyright infringement, passing off, acts of unfair
 competition, seeking damages/rendition of accounts, freezing of assets,
 delivery up and other appropriate relief. 25. It is submitted that since its founding in 1894, the plaintiff has used,
 and continues to use, the mark HERSHEY (derived from the surname of the
 plaintiff's founder), the possessive form of the mark HERSHEY, and marks
 that incorporate the marks HERSHEY/HERSHEY'S, both standalone as
 well as in conjunction with other word/device mark(s), as part of the
 corporate name(s) of the plaintiff and its affiliates, as well as on and in
 relation to almost all of the plaintiff's products, which are primarily
 chocolate and related confectionary products. Further, the mark HERSHEY
 is also used/incorporated in many device marks owned/used by the plaintiff
 (hereinafter collectively referred to as "plaintiff's Name and Marks"), in
 many different forms, including: 26. It is submitted that the mark HERSHEY, which is also the plaintiff's
 house mark, has been used, and continues to be used, by the plaintiff, as part
 of the corporate names of the plaintiff's affiliate companies all over the
 world. Some examples include Hershey Netherlands B.V., Hershey Canada,
 lnc., Hershey Mexico S.A. de C.V., The Hershey Sales Company, The
 Hershey Licensing Company, Hershey UK Holding Ltd., Hershey Japan Co.
 Ltd., Hershey India Pvt. Ltd., Hershey Philippines, Inc., to name a few. 27. It is submitted that the plaintiff has had, and continues to have,
 significant commercial ties with India. Since 1997, the plaintiff has had a
 subsidiary named Hershey India Private Limited ("plaintiff's Indian
 Subsidiary") through which the plaintiff has done, and continues to do,
 business in India. 28. It is submitted that the plaintiff has filed the present suit being
 aggrieved by the defendant no. 1 and other persons/entities, the particulars
 of whom are not known to the plaintiff at the moment, who are together
 dishonestly and illegally misrepresenting themselves as being authorized
 by/associated with the plaintiff and carrying out fraudulent activities in the
 name of the plaintiff. The defendant no. 1, in association with certain
 unknown other persons/entities, is/are issuing fake job offers/walk-in
 interview letters, unauthorizedly containing and bearing the plaintiff's Name
 and Marks. These notices/letters have been deliberately prepared in a
 manner that they are bound to mislead and confuse even persons who are CS(COMM) 836/2024 Page 5 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/10/2024 at 01:05:02
 well acquainted with the plaintiff and its business as to their actual source,
 let alone impressionable and unwary job aspirants. The issuance of these
 letters and emails by the defendant no. 1 amounts to infringement of the
 plaintiff's Name and Marks and also amounts to penal offences of fraud,
 cheating, impersonation, and misrepresentation. 29. It is submitted that the defendant no. 1 is/are primarily functioning
 from the infringing domain name THEHERSHEYCOMPANY.IN, and the
 website located thereat (currently inaccessible on account of endeavours of
 the plaintiffs internet security team). The defendant no. 1 is/are also
 operating E-mail IDs associated with the said infringing domain name for
 sending the fake job offers/walk-in interview letters and for reaching out to
 various persons, purporting to be acting on behalf of the plaintiff, and
 seeking to elicit monies from such persons under the garb of "security
 deposits" for appearing for job interviews for a prospective job opening with
 the plaintiff company. 30. Since the infringing domain name incorporates the entirety of the
 name/mark HERSHEY, and since it is also identical to the plaintiff's official
 domain name THEHERSHEYCOMPANY.COM, save for the .IN top level
 domain name, as well as since the defendant no. 1 is using the plaintiff's
 corporate logo, consumers, irrespective of whether they are of average
 intelligence and imperfect recollection or if they have a trained and cautious
 eye for detail, are bound to be hoodwinked and deceived into associating the
 defendant no. l and its/their dishonest and fraudulent activities with the
 plaintiff. Such confusion will have disastrous effects on the plaintiff's
 enviable goodwill and reputation. In fact, there have been actual instances of
 people having confused the E-mails received from the defendant no. 1 as CS(COMM) 836/2024 Page 6 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/10/2024 at 01:05:02
 having been sent by the plaintiff. 31. Attention of this Court has been drawn to the document showing fake
 interview letters issued thereby infringing the mark of the plaintiff.
 Document-33 of the plaint in this regard, is reproduced as hereunder: 32. By referring to the aforesaid letter, it is submitted that the defendant
 no. 1 has, reproduced the plaintiff's Name and Marks as well as various
 features/insignia used by the plaintiff on the plaintiff's official website
 (located at: www.thehersheycompany.com) in order to lend a sense of
 authenticity to the fake interview letter. Such features/elements include,
 most prominently, the plaintiff's Name and Marks, the plaintiff's
 HERSHEY device mark, the use of the silhouette of the plaintiff's KISSES
 mark as a water mark, reproducing pictures of various products
 manufactured and sold by the plaintiff bearing the plaintiff's Name and
 Marks, and so on. It is submitted that most of the word and device marks,
 reproduced by the defendant no. 1 in the interview letter unauthorizedly, are
 registered in the name of the plaintiff and its affiliates, and such
 unauthorized use amounts to infringement of the plaintiff's registered
 trademarks and passing off, as also infringement of the plaintiff's copyright
 therein. 33. Further, there are several other similar letters being circulated by the
 defendant no. 1, with slight changes, such as replacing the name of the
 signatory of the fake letter from Mr. Hari Gupta, Mr. Suraj Jain, and Mr. CS(COMM) 836/2024 Page 8 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/10/2024 at 01:05:03
 Ankit Sirohi, but with the photograph of the signatory remaining constant.
 Further, the contact number referenced in the fake interview letter also keeps
 changing, which could be either of +91-9773876711; +91-9870254628; and
 +91-9870160560, with no specific discernible pattern in this respect
 emerging from the letters available with the plaintiff. 34. Attention of this Court has also been drawn to the various E-mails
 which have been received by the plaintiff from the members of the public
 who have been duped by issuance of such fraud letters, and who have
 transferred their money in the bank accounts of defendant no.1. One of the
 E-mails as pointed to this Court, during the course of hearing, is reproduced
 hereunder: 35. Attention of this Court has also been drawn to Document-36, which
 shows the various screenshots showing the fake interview letters being
 issued using the plaintiff's company name. One such document showing the
 job fraud alert at the plaintiff company, is reproduced as hereunder: 36. It is submitted that the plaintiff has expanded its online presence in
 India by launching India-specific official social media pages and accounts
 on Facebook, X (formerly known as Twitter), Instagram, three of the world's
 most popular and trafficked social networking sites, YouTube, the highly
 trafficked video sharing website, as well as on LinkedIn, one of the world's
 most popular professional networking sites. The plaintiff's Name and Marks
 feature prominently on the above-mentioned sites. 37. In so far as trade mark registrations in India are concerned, the
 Plaintiff is the proprietor of valid and subsisting trade mark registrations for
 one or more of the plaintiff's Name and Marks. Details of these registrations
 are listed below: 38. The defendant no. 1 is/are running/perpetrating the elaborate scam by
 unauthorizedly and infringingly using the plaintiff's Name and Marks,
 including from the domain name THEHERSHEYCOMPANY.IN, and from
 the E-mail IDs associated with THEHERSHEYCOMPANY.IN, namely, [email protected] , and [email protected] , as well as the
 contact numbers purportedly belonging to the Ashok Kumar defendants, i.e.,
 9773876711, 9355097994, 9870160560, and 9870254628. 39. It is submitted that the identity of the registrant of the domain name
 THEHERSHEYCOMPANY.IN is not known to the plaintiff, as the details
 of the domain name registrant have been redacted by the registrant by
 subscribing to the privacy protect features offered by the domain name
 registrars. As such, the true identity and contact details of the
 registrant/owner/operator of the domain name
 THEHERSHEYCOMPANY.IN are not traceable. 40. It is the plaintiff's apprehension that the fraudulent activities of the
 registrant(s)/owner(s) of these websites are likely to continue even after the
 passing of an injunction order. It is also likely that the registrants may
 simply register new domain names containing the plaintiff's Name and
 Marks and host/shift to fresh website(s) that may continue to defraud the
 members of the public. Accordingly, the plaintiff seeks a dynamic injunction
 to cover all future rogue websites that mirror or mimic the contents of the
 plaintiff's websites and/ or their domain names that contain or are
 deceptively similar to the plaintiffs Name and Marks. 41. It is submitted that upon the plaintiff learning about such a scam being
 perpetrated in its name, the plaintiff's Indian counsel conducted Internet
 searches of their own and came across few posts on the popular social media CS(COMM) 836/2024 Page 14 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/10/2024 at 01:05:03
 platforms, namely, LinkedIn and Twitter, made by the social media users of
 different strata, voicing their concerns and bringing to light the fake
 interview scam being run in the name of the plaintiff for illegally eliciting
 hefty sums in money. Many of these social media posts also contained
 screenshots/copies of the same interview letter as received by the plaintiff.
 Such posts indicate that the defendant no. 1 is acting in connivance with
 various persons to perpetrate the scam in the plaintiff's name. 42. Further, the plaintiff's Internet security team also flagged the
 defendant no. l's fraudulent use of the website and E-mail IDs located
 at/associated with the infringing domain name
 THEHERSHEYCOMPANY.IN to the registrant of the domain name,
 pursuant to which, the website located at THEHERSHEYCOMPANY.IN
 was taken down. However, while the website located at the domain
 THEHERSHEYCOMPANY.IN is not accessible any more, the domain and
 the associated email IDs continue to remain active, and it is likely that the
 defendant no. 1 continues to operate the associated E-mail IDs which are
 being used to misrepresent the plaintiff and for issuing the fake interview
 letters in the name of the plaintiff, amounting to infringement of the
 plaintiffs Name and Marks. 43. It is submitted that the defendant no. 1 is seeking to unduly and
 illegally benefit monetarily at the expense of gullible persons, who, being
 deceived by the unauthorized and infringing use of the plaintiff's Name and
 Marks in the covering email and the interview letter, are likely to pay the
 amount mentioned in the letter in the hope of getting a chance at working for
 a prestigious organization as the plaintiff. Hence, it is submitted that it is
 incumbent for this Court to not only preserve and protect the plaintiff's CS(COMM) 836/2024 Page 15 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/10/2024 at 01:05:03
 rights in the plaintiff's Name and Marks from the defendant no. 1, but also
 protect the public at large from being cheated and misrepresented into
 paying certain sums to the defendant no. 1. 44. Considering the submissions made before this Court, the plaintiff has
 demonstrated a prima facie case for grant of permanent injunction and in
 case no ex-parte ad interim injunction is granted, the plaintiff will suffer an
 irreparable loss. Further, the balance of convenience also lies in favour of
 the plaintiff, and against the defendants. 45. Accordingly, the following directions are issued: 46. Issue notice to the defendants. Notice is accepted by learned counsel
 appearing for defendant no.2. 47. Let notice be issue to other defendants, including, through the
 nominated counsels, by all modes. 48. Let reply be filed within a period of four weeks, from the date of
 service. 49. Rejoinder thereto, if any, be filed within two weeks, thereafter. 50. Compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 be done within a period of one
 week, from today. 51. Re-notify on 21st January, 2025. MINI PUSHKARNA, J
 SEPTEMBER 30, 2024/kr CS(COMM) 836/2024 Page 18 of 18 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 02/10/2024 at 01:05:03