42. Yet another ground taken by the counsel for the

petitioners is that the appeal of the petitioners and Syndicate

Bank is coming up for arguments before the Appellate Tribunal

prevention of money Money Laundering Act hence, criminal

proceedings should not be allowed to be continued. Judgement of

Commissioner of Income Tax vs. Bhupen Champak Lal Dalal ( supra), Uttam Chand Vs. Income Tax Officer (supra) relied upon

by the counsel for the petitioners are cases pertaining to the Income Tax Act . The proceedings were stayed before the Criminal

Court as the assessment was pending before the appellate

authority of the Income Tax Department. The facts of those cases

have no applicability to the present case before the Court.

Proceedings before the Special Court which is dealing with the

offence of Money Laundering Act cannot be stayed till the disposal

of the appeal before the appellate authority under the Act, as in

the appeal proceedings pertaining to the attachment of the

property are in challenge, whereas in the criminal proceedings the

Court has to deal with the offence of money laundering. It is

clearly made out in the complaint that fraud was committed with

Syndicate Bank to the tune of more than Rs.1000 crores and the

proceeds of the crime were used to purchase properties in World

Trade Park, there is no bar under the PMLA Act from proceeding

with the trial of the case. The appeal before the Appellate Tribunal

lies when the Director or any person is aggrieved by any order

made by the adjudicating authority under the Act whereas all the

offences under the Act are triable by Special Courts. Hence, there
 (16 of 20) [CRLW-704/2018]

is no question of staying the proceedings pending before the

Special Court. 43. Yet another ground taken by the petitioners is that the

Courts are competent to quash the criminal proceedings at the

stage of complaint. The judgment referred by the counsel for the

petitioners Pepsi Foods Ltd. V/s Anand Kumar Mohatta

(supra) was a case where the Apex Court was of the view that

when the complaint and the preliminary evidence recorded does

not make out a case against the party then continuing the

proceedings would amount to an abuse of the process of the law

and the High Court to advance justice should exercise powers

under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution and Section 482 of

Cr.P.C. Similar is the view taken by the Apex Court in Anand

Kumar Mohatta V/s State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) (supra).

There cannot be any contrary proposition as once the Courts come

to the conclusion that no case is made out, from perusal of the

complaint and the evidence produced by the prosecution it should

exercise powers under Article 226 of the Constitution or Section

482 of Cr.P.C. to prevent the abuse of process of any court or to

secure the ends of justice. On facts the said judgments have no

applicability, as there is ample evidence to the effect that the

petitioners were a party to the proceeds of the crime. 44. Yet another argument advanced by the counsel for the

petitioners is that the petitioners were not aware and were not

knowing that the money which was given to him was proceed of

crime, hence, the proceedings qua the petitioners deserve to be

quashed. The judgment referred by the petitioners Nikesh

Tarachand Shah V/s UOI (supra) was pertaining to grant of

bail. Jafar Mohammed Hasanfatta V/s Deputy Director
 (17 of 20) [CRLW-704/2018]

(supra) was a case where the contention of the petitioners was

that there is no prima facie grounds and lack of material evidence

qua the petitioners, for constituting the necessary pre-requisite of Section 3 of PMLA Act. As discussed earlier in the preceding

paragraphs, petitioners initially entered into an agreement with

Bharat Bomb, a Chartered Accountant and obtained money to the

tune of Rs. 160 crores from him. Subsequently he got the

property transferred in the name of different persons by returning

the money to Bharat Bomb who is involved in Bank scam of

Rs.1000 crores. The petitioners have instead of transferring the

sale proceeds directly to escrow account opened accounts and has

transferred the proceeds and hence, his involvement is writ large.

The judgments referred to by the counsel for the petitioners thus

have no applicability. 45. From the investigation done, it is revealed that from

the account of fictitious firms/companies created by Bharat Bomb,

huge amount was transferred to the World Trade Park Ltd and

sincere infrastructure Pvt Ltd of which petitioners is Chairman and

Managing Director. It is revealed from the reply that Bharat Bomb

transferred more than Rs.160/- crores to petitioner No.1 and his

companies from his fictitious firms. Petitioner No.1 facilitated

Bharat Bomb in placement, layering and integration of proceeds of

crime by selling the property in name of different persons

including fictitious firms controlled by Bharat Bomb. 46. It is also revealed from the reply submitted by the

Enforcement Directorate that the petitioners had got the project

financed by World Trade Park from IDBI Bank, DHFL Bank and

UCO Bank and World Trade Park was mortgaged with the banks.

As per the terms of sanction, World Trade Park Ltd. had opened an
 (18 of 20) [CRLW-704/2018]

escrow account with IDBI Bank and petitioners were required to

obtain NOC from IDBI Bank and DHFL before effecting sale of

property and all sale proceed were to be deposited in the said

escrow accounts only and petitioners were not authorized to open

any other account for the purpose. 47. From the investigation done by the Enforcement

Directorate, it is revealed that the petitioners in connivance with

Syndicate Bank's Officials opened two current accounts in the

name of World Trade Park Ltd for receiving the tainted money of

Bharat Bomb and instead of depositing in the sale proceed in the

escrow accounts, as per the terms and conditions of finance, got

the amount deposited in the current account opened at Syndicate

Bank. It is also revealed from the investigation that the sale

consideration of the property sold to Bharat Bomb and his

associates was shown as Rs.37.9/- crores to the banks, whereas,

actual sale consideration was Rs.78.99/- crores. The total sale

consideration received by the petitioners and his companies i.e.

M/S World Trade Park Ltd., M/S R.F. Trading and Properties and

M/S Sincere Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd was more than Rs.160/-

crores, whereas, the sale consideration was Rs.78.99/- crores. It

is also revealed from the investigation that even after execution of

the last sale deed in August, 2015, 27 crores was received by the

petitioners. The amount received was the tainted money of Bharat

Bomb. 48. It is also revealed from the investigation that the

persons who have appeared on behalf of the firms for getting the

properties registered have categorically stated that they have no

concern with the properties and firms in which they are shown as

partners, the properties actually belong to Bharat Bomb. (19 of 20) [CRLW-704/2018] 49. It has come in the investigation that the petitioners

after getting the property registered in his name on 03.11.2014,

in capacity of Chairman and Managing Director of World Trade

Park Ltd vide three separate letters dated 19.12.2014 requested

IDBI Bank to issue separate NOC in respect of No.407, 408 & 409

mentioning the customer name as M/S Raj Darbar Material Trading

Pvt. Ltd. and was the status of properties as unsold. The

petitioners did not pay a single rupee to the escrow account of the

IDBI Bank of whom the said properties were mortgaged. The

petitioners also did not disclose the purchase of property as per

requirement of Income Tax. It is also revealed that the loan

amount in relation to the said properties was paid from the tainted

money by Bharat Bomb. 50. From investigation done by the Enforcement

Directorate, it is also revealed that petitioners opened two

accounts and had transferred amount directly to those accounts

and had thus utilized the proceeds of crime and offence under the Money Laundering Act is made out. 51. Complaint has already been filed against the petitioners

in the Special Court constituted under the Money Laundering Act and Special Court have already taken cognizance against the

petitioners. 52. Writ Petition No.704/2018 was preferred with a prayer

to quash and set aside ECIR No.JPZO/01/2016, registered by

Jaipur Zonal Office of Enforcement Directorate qua the petitioners.

Since the investigation has been completed and complaint has

been filed, the Criminal Writ Petition No.704/2018 has become

infructuous and the same is, accordingly, dismissed. (20 of 20) [CRLW-704/2018] 53. As far as the Writ petition No.757/2018 is concerned, the

 prayer in the writ petition is for quashing the complaint. Judgment of

 "State of Haryana vs Bhajan Lal & Ors. " AIR 1992 SC 604 which

 had laid down guidelines and has permitted for quashing the

 proceedings by the High Court in rarest of rare cases where

 allegations, if taken on the their face value do not prima facie

 constitute any offence has no applicability to the present case in

 hand, there is specific allegation of laundering of money which was

 proceed of crime and in the investigation done by the authorized

 Officer, offence is made out against the petitioners. Court has also

 taken cognizance against the petitioners for the alleged offence,

 hence proceedings cannot be quashed exercising the writ

 jurisdiction. The investigation was done by an authorized officer and

 from the investigation, it is revealed that the petitioners are involved

 and have connived with Bharat Bomb in siphoning the crime

 proceeds to the tune of more than Rs.160/- crores. Hence no ground

 is made out for entertaining the Writ Petition No.757/2018. Both the

 writ petitions accordingly deserves to be dismissed. 54. Before parting with the case, considering the fact that

 writ petitions are frivolous and have resulted into loss of precious

 Court time, this Court imposes a cost of Rs.50,000/-. The cost be

 deposited with the Rajasthan High Court Legal Services Authority

 within one month from the date of this order. The writ petitions are

 accordingly, dismissed with cost of Rs.50,000/-. 55. A copy of this order be placed in Criminal Writ

 No.757/2018. Stay applications and pending interim applications also

 disposed of. (PANKAJ BHANDARI),J. Arti/66

Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org)