(1) This order will dispose of the interim applications filed by the plaintiff in the above suits to restrain the defendant from encashing the bank guarantees furnished by the plaintiff in pursuance of the contract between the parties. These are six suits filed by the plaintiff M/s V.K. Constructions Works Ltd. against the Army Welfare Housing Organisation. There are six Independent contracts between the parties and therefore these six suits. In each case there are two applications by the plaintiff regarding relief of injunction sought by the plaintiff against encashment of bank guarantees by the defendant. This order will dispose of all the 12 applications. Two sets of bank guarantees are involved. One set is regarding bank guarantees for the due repayment of the mobilization advance. The other set of bank guarantees is that of the performance guarantees. The Bank of Rajasthan Ltd., Panchsheel Park, New Delhi has furnished all the bank guarantees. The letters of invocation of bank guarantees are similar in language and content in all the cases, except for the variation in the amounts. The language of the bank guarantees to cover the mobilization advance is identical in all the cases except variation in the amounts. Similarly the language of the performance guarantees is similar in all the cases except the variation in the amounts, therefore, all these cases raise py?3 common questions of fact and law and the injunction applications are being disposed of by this common order. (2) Out of the six suits, four suits being Suit No.3866/91, 3867/91, 3868/91 and 3870/91 are petitions under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act in which applications have been filed under Section 41 read with Schedule Ii of the Arbitration Act for interim orders. The other two suits being Suit No-3663/91 and 3664/91 are suits for permanent injunction in which injunction applications have been Filed under Order 39, Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure . The two other injunction suits were filed in this court on 27th November 1991 while the four suits under the Arbitration Act were filed on 9th December 1991. (3) The defendant is an organization for the welfare of Army Officers. It has undertaken the work of construction of dwelling units for its members. The plaintiff is a contractor and it undertook the work of construction of various dwelling units on behalf of the defendant at its various sites. Separate, though similar, agreements were entered into between the parties, with respect to each site. Thus there are in all six agreements regarding which six suits have been filed in this court Each contract contains an arbitration clause. The contracts also contain p73 clauses under which bank guarantees are to be furnished by the contractor in favor of the employer. The contractor who is the plaintiff in these proceedings furnished various bank guarantees in pursuance of the contract provisions. The defendant/employer issued separate demand notices to the bank in relation to each bank guarantee invoking bank guarantees and calling upon the bank to pay the amounts under the bank guarantees. These notices were issued on 19th November 1991 and 5th December 1991. The language of the notices is identical. During the pendency of these proceedings initially counsel for the defendant, i.e. the A.W.H.O. had made a statement that the bank guarantees will not be encashed till next date. Counsel for the plaintiff had undertaken to keep the bank guarantees alive. However, the statement regarding not encashing the bank guarantees was not extended after a few hearings and when in February 1992 the defendant took steps to encash the bank guarantees, the plaintiff Filed fresh sets of applications in these cases for injunction to restrain the defendant from encashing the bank guarantees. These fresh application were taken up for hearing and arguments continued almost day to day with effect from 27th February 1992. Though no formal order was recorded regarding non-encashment of the bank guarantees involved 83 till the disposal of these various applications, counsel for the defendant had assured the Court that till disposal of these applications the defendant will not seek for encashment of the bank guarantees. (4) Two affidavits dated 3rd March 1992 and 24th March 1992 filed on record on behalf of the defendant show that on 26/27th February 1992 the defendant had in fact tried to encash all the bank guarantees involved in these cases and held discussions with the bank for this purpose. The defendant also handed over to the bank further letters of demand dated 27th February 1992 in continuation of their previous letters of demand served on the bank. By the subsequent letters of demand, the defendant has tried to make the notice of demand in accordance with the terms of the bank guarantee in order to cover up the lacunae in its initial notice of demand. In response to this notice of demand the bank issued a composite letter dated 9th March 1992 covering all the bank guarantees. A photo copy of the said letter has been placed on record Along with affidavit of the defendant dated 24th March 1992. In the said letter the bank has finally said "we may further make it clear that we have no interest in the above mentioned suits which pertain to disputes purely between you and the Contractor. Since the guarantees have now been properly invoked on 27.2.1992. payment thereof will be made immediately as per the directions of the Court". This letter is addressed by the bank to the defendant. (6) The relevant clauses of the contract under which the bank guarantees were furnished are reproduced as under:- (7) The performance guarantee is in the following terms:- "THE Managing Director, Army Welfare Housing Organisation, Room No.50, Southern Hutments. Raja ji Marg. Dhq Po New Delhi/110001. Dear Sir, Contract Agreement NO.AWHQ/NOIDA/ 11/89 with M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd., Principal office. 42, Community Centre, New Friends Colony, New Delhi Regd.Office at 1142, Sector 15-B. Chandigarh. The tender conditions of contract provide inter alia that the contractor shall pay you a sum of Rs.1,00,000.00 (Rupees one lac only) as security on account of the amount covered by a performance guarantee in the manner and subject to the terms therein mentioned. This performance guarantee includes an undertaking on our part to pay on demand to you the sum of Rs.1,00,000.00 (Rupees one lac only) in the event of the said contractor having incurred forefeiture of the amount as aforesaid for breach of any of the terms and conditions and stipulations as aforesaid and contained in the said agreement without recourse to clause 104 of the said agreement. The said M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd., Chandigarh has approached us and as their request and in consideration of the premises, we the Bank of Rajasthan Ltd., Panchsheel Park, New Delhi having our registered office at Clock Tower, Udaipur, have agreed to give such guarantee as is hereinafter mentioned in your favor. 1. We, the Bank of Rajasthan Ltd., having our office at Panchsheel Park, New Delhi (hereinafter called "the surety") do hereby irrevocable guarantee to you the due payment of the said sum of Rs.1,00,000.00 )(Rupees one lac only) by the contractor to you in terms of the said contract conditions and their due performance of the obligation in this behalf and we as surety undertake and agree with you that if default is made by the said M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd., New Delhi i.e. the contractor in performing any of the terms of conditions of the contract or in payment of any money payable to you under the contract of which the Army Welfare Housing Organisation shall be the sold judge and its decision communicated to us in this regard shall be final and conclusively binding on us, it shall not be open to us to ask you reasons/details in this regard and we shall have no right to question the same or make reference to the contractor in amy manner whatsoever. We shall on demand pay to you without any protest, delay or demur and without any reference of my kind whatsoever to the contractor in such manner as you may direct the said amount of Rupees one lac only or such portion thereof not exceeding the said sum as you may from time to lime require or is payable to you by the contractor for all or any such default you can look to us as the principal debtor without any reference whatsoever to the contractor. 2. You will have the full liberty without reference to us and without affecting this guarantee, postpone for any time or from time to time the exercise of any of the powers and rights conferred on you under the said con p73 tract with the said M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd.. New Delhi and to enforce or to forbear from enforcing any powers or rights orby reasons of time being given to the said M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd., New Delhi which under law relating to the sureties would but for the provision have the effect of releasing us. Any such time Jindulgence/forbearance and/or any act or commission or commission on your part will not violate our this guarantee. 3. Your right to recover the said sum of Rs.1,00.000.00 (Rupees one lac only) from us in manner aforesaid will not be affected or suspended by reason of the fact that any dispute or disputes have been raised by the said M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd., and/or that any dispute or disputes are pending before any officer Tribunal. Court Arbitrator/Umpire. 4. The guarantee herein contained shall not be determined or affected by the liquidation or winding up, dissolution or change of constitution or insolvency of the said M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd., New Delhi, but shall in all respects and for all purposes be binding and operative until full payment of all money due to you in respect of such liability or liabilities is received by you as if this is a continuing guarantee to secure your ultimate dues in the promises. 5. We have power to issue this guarantee in your favor under memorandum and articles of Association and the undersigned has full power to do under the power of Attorney No. A-299 granted to him by the bank. 6. We will have no right of subrogation against the contractor unless all your dues and aforesaid are paid in full. We do hereby waive our rights of suretyship which arc inconsistent with all or any provisions hereof. 7. You will be at liberty to alter the terms of said contract and/or take any other security/guarantee/promissory notes from the contractor or others which will not effect/vitiate discharge our this guarantee. 8. This guarantee will bind our successors and assignees and your successors and assignees and will remain operative irrespective of any change in the constitution of our bank and/or the contractor. 9. Our liability under this guarantee is restricted to Rs. 1.00.000.00 (Rupees one lac only) and this guarantee shall remain in force until and unless a claim to enforce this guarantee is filed with us within one month from 31.03.1992 which is date of expiry of guarantee) all your rights under the said guarantee shall be forfeited and we shall be relieved and discharged from all liabilities there under. 10. We agree with you that in case we fail or neglect to honour our part of obligation and commit any breach in the terms and conditions of this irrevocable guarantee, we the surety, shall be liable to pay you damages in addition to the amount guaranteed under this deed together with legal. miscellaneous and administrative expenses incurred by you in enforcing this guarantee against us. We further agree with you that you shall be the sole judge and your decision in this regard shall be the final and conclusively binding on us and we shall have no right to question the same on any ground whatsoever. 11. For the purpose of enforcing legal rights/remedies under this guarantee we agree with you that the Courts in the State of Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction. Yours faithfully for The Bank of Rajasthan sd/- Manager, Panchsheel Park, New Delhi." (8) The language of the letter regarding invocation of the bank guarantee is also reproduced as under:- "DEARSir, 1. Whereas you have furnished a Bank Guarantee bond bearing number 61/91 dated 15 April.91 for Rs.4,58.000.00 (Rupees four lacs fifty eight thousand only) in view of advance paid by Army Welfare Housing Organisation against contract Agreement NO.AWHO/NOIDA/ 11/89 made between the Managing Director Army Welfare Housing Organisation and M/s V.K. Construction Works Ltd., contractor against which a claim to enforce this guarantee can be filed with you within one month from 11th December,91 and up to 11th Jan,1992. Clause 11 of the Bank Guarantee refers. 2. And Whereas it is expressly provided in the aforesaid guarantee bond that you undertake to pay the amount due and payable under the guarantee without any protest, delay or demur, merely on a demand from the Army Welfare Housing Organisation. 4. I, on behalf of Army Welfare Housing Organisation, hereby serve you with this notice of demand of Rupees four lacs and fifty eight thousand only against the aforesaid bank guarantee. 5. The amount may please be remitted in the form of bank draft in favor of Managing Director, Army Welfare Housing Organisation, New Delhi. Yours faithfully, sd/- (G K Sen ) Maj. Gen. (Retd.) Managing Director" (RE-:Performance guarantee) Dear Sir, 1. Reference our letter No.B/03020/ cont/CA-11-89/NOIDA/AWHO(ii) dated 19th November 1991, letter No.B/03020/cont/CA-11-89/NOIDA/ AWHO(ii) dated 26.2.1992 and discussion with Shri Sharda your branch Manager and Shn M.L. Seth of your Regional Office, at New Delhi on 26th February, 1992. 2. in terms of clause I of the bank guarantee. Army Welfare Housing Organisation is the sold judge to decide the invoking of the bank guarantee and this decision to invoke the bank guarantee has been communicated to you vide our letter dated 19th November,1991 referred above. As per terms of bank guarantee, this decision is final and conclusively binding on you. However, as per your requirement communicated verbally during discussion on 26.2.1992. it is intimated that M/s V.K.Constniction Works Ltd. has defaulted in the performance of his obligations under contract agreement number AWHO/NOIDA/11/89 therefore, the said contract has been cancelled and it has been decided to invoke the bank guarantee. 3. Please note that you are delaying the encashment of the bank guarantee on some pretext or the other inspite of our officers (Col. Sachdev and Col.Dham) meeting you since 25th February, 1992 and our earlier communications. Any loss occurring to our organisation on account of this delay will be on your account. 4. You are again requested to make the payment of Rs.4.58 lacs as demanded forthwith. Yours faithfully. sd/- (MML Sharma) Maj.Gen. M.D., AWHO" (17) These observations of the Supreme Court clearly show that the buyers, i.e. the party at whose instance the bank guarantee is furnished is entitled to approach the court and seek an injunction against encashment of the bank guarantee. These observations considered in the background of the legal position noticed hereinbefore that under the-Indian Law a contract of .bank guarantee has three parties which includes the party at whose instance the bank guarantee is furnished, make it clear that the plaintiff in the present suit cannot be non-suited on the ground of having no locus standi to seek redressal of his present grievances. (18) The settled law that the bank guarantee has to be dealt with strictly according to its language and the terms contained therein strengthens this view. The party at whose instance the bank guarantee is furnished cannot be denied even this much right that it may point out to the court that the notice of demand is not in accordance with the language and terms of the bank guarantee. In a given case the bank may collude with the beneficiary in allowing the bank guarantee to be encashed. In another case a bank may overlook the defect in she notice of demand, Unless this right is allowed to the party at whose instance the bank guarantee is being furnished it may lead to injustice. Ultimately it is that party which has to bear the consequences of encashment of the bank guarantee. Therefore, I am not inclined to take a view that the doors should be completely closed to a party at whose instance the bank guarantee is furnished to approach the court. The Supreme Court has recognised this fact as noticed in the above quotation from its decision in the case of U.P. Co-op. Fed. Ltd. (supra). I may note here that this view is confined to the legal question raised regarding locus standi of the party at whose instance the bank guarantee is furnished to challenge the notice of demand. This view in no way be understood to undermine the importance attached to a bank guarantee in the present day trade and commerce and to the legal position which does not admit of interference in encashment of bank guarantees by courts except in exceptional circumstances. (19) This brings me to the second legal question raised by counsel for the defendant. Counsel for the defendant has urged in support of his argument that it is settled law that a bank guarantee is an independent contract and it has to be considered and enforced without reference to the underlying contract, i.e. the contract in pursuance of which the bank guarantee was furnished. He has drawn my attention to Section 41 of the Arbitration Act read with Schedule Ii of the said Act to submit that under these provisions relief can be granted to a party only in relation to "the contract which contains the arbitration clause and not. in relation to an independent contract. In support of this argument counsel has relied on H.M. Kamaluddin Ansari & Co. vs. Union of India & Ors. , . In this case a petition under section 33 of the Arbitration. Act had been filed challenging the validity of the arbitration clause Along with an application under section 41 of the Arbitration Act for injunction restraining the purchaser from withholding the payment under another contract. It was held that injunction prayed for could not be granted because the amount due under the other contract to the contractor/applicant was not the subject matter of the proceedings under section 33 of Arbitration Act. (20) The analogy of the Supreme Court judgment cannot be strictly applied in the present case. It may be true that for purposes of encashment of bank guarantee one may not have to make any reference to the construction agreement and the enforcement of the bank guarantee has to be seen on the language of the bank guarantee. However, the parent contract cannot be totally overlooked because the bank guarantee has been furnished only in accordance with the requirement of the said contract. Secondly, the disputes which may ultimately be referred to arbitration in the petition under section 20 are likely to include the dispute regarding bank guarantee. In fact in one of the present cases it has been shown that in the reply filed by the defendant, the defendant has himself sought to refer the dispute regarding bank guarantees to arbitration. When this is so it may not be proper to drive a party to multiplicity of proceedings by making it file one petition for reference of disputes to arbitration under section 20 of the Arbitration Act and another independent suit for injunction regarding encashment of bank guarantee. For this reason as also for the reason that though the bank guarantee is an independent contract yet since it has been furnished in pursuance of another contract which contains an arbitration clause, I am not inclined to hold that the plaintiff cannot seek a remedy in the arbitration proceedings. The right of the party at whose instance the bank guarantee is furnished to file a suit in relation to the bank guarantee has been recognised. I do not find it fair and reasonable to drive such a party to separate proceedings. I may note here that in various cases decided by this court no party has been non-suited on-this ground and the petitions for interim relief under section 41 of the Arbitration Act read with Schedule Ii have been entertained. In view of this discussion the second contention on behalf of the defendant fails. (21) In the background of this legal position I have to consider the facts of these cases and whether any injunction can be granted in favor of the plaintiff and if so to what extent. There are two sets of bank guarantees in these cases. One set consists of performance guarantees while the other set consists of bank guarantees to cover mobilisation advances. Though several bank guarantees are involved, the language of the bank guarantees in each set is identical. Therefore, each set can be considered by taking one of the bank guarantees in the set concerned as the basis of discussion. (22) Mobilisation Advance Guarantees The entire bank guarantee has already been reproduced in an earlier part of this judgment. Para 3 thereof is crucial for the present purpose. What is sought to be secured is due payment of the sum advanced to the contractor in terms of the contract conditions. Further the bank has undertaken that "if default is made by the said V.K. Construction Works Ltd., New Delhi i.e., the contractor does not refund the said advance in the terms and conditions of the contract. We shall on demand pay to you without any protest, delay or demur and without any reference p73 of any kind whatsoever to the contractor in such manner as you may direct the said amount of Rs._____ or such part thereof not exceeding the said sum as you may require or is payable to you by the contractor for all or any such default you can look to us as the principal debtor without any reference whatsoever to the contractor." (23) The aforesaid language of the bank guarantee clearly shows that it was intended to secure the defendant against default of the plaintiff in refund of the amount of the advance. Use of the words - "due payment of the said sum by the contractor", "default is made", "i.e. the contract does not refund the said advance", "we shall on demand pay to you -the said amount of Rs.___ or such portion thereof- as you may require or is payable to you by the contractor for all or any such default-", clearly shows that the bank guarantee is conditional and is intended to operate in the event of default in repayment and to the extent of such default. That is it can be enforced/enchased to the extent the advance remains unrefunded. Words "or such portion thereof" are suggestive of this. A conditional guarantee need not be encashed till the condition is fulfillled. (24) In the face of this language of the bank guarantee it is not possible to urge that the moment any default is committed by the contractor in repayment of any portion of the advance, she bank guarantee can be encashed for its full amount, irrespective of the extent to which refund has been made. The purpose of the bank guarantee is to ensure that the mobilisation advance is fully refunded to the beneficiary. (25) It is this feature/language of the bank guarantee in the present cases which distinguishes these cases from the decision of the Supreme Court in General Electric Technical Services Co Inc. (supra). In Getsco the bank guarantee was a composite guarantce. initially it was to cover the mobilisation advance. Later it was extended to cover performance of the contract. The bank guarantee dated 28th October. 1986 which was submitted regarding the mobilisation advance does not talk of refund of the mobilisation advance or the extent of refund. It talks of loss or damage caused or suffered or to be caused or suffered by the owner by reason of beach by the contractor of the terms and conditions of the agreement. On this language of the bank guarantee the Supreme Court held that the recovery of She mobilisation advance or the extent to which it was recovered were irrelevant factors in relation to encashment of the bank guarantee and the bank was bound to pay irrespective of any recoveries of the mobilisation advance having been effected. In the bank guarantees involved in she present cases, the recovery of the mobilisation advance and the extent to which it has been recovered are very relevant and material factors. This is in fact a condition of the bank guarantee and can not be ignored. Therefore, the notices of demand dated 19.11.1991, 5.12.1991 or 27.2.1992 which at best go to the extent of saying that the contractor "has defaulted regarding refund of advance", fail to comply with the requirement of the bank guarantee. The notice must indicate the extent of default in refund of the advance and the bank guarantee is encashable to the extent of such default. (26) Counsel for defendant submits that merely saying "default" in the notice of demand is enough. This will be doing violence to the language and purport of the bank guarantee. I feel fortified in this view by comparing the bank guarantee regarding the mobilisation advance with the bank guarantee regarding performance of the contract. While in the performance guarantee the beneficiary has been made the sole judge of the default in performance of the contract and he need not spell out the default or the extent of default, in the mobilisation advance guarantee it is not so. In the latter the encashment has been linked to the extent of refund. If the intention was otherwise i.e. irrespective of the extent of refund of advance, the entire amount under the bank guarantee was repayable, it could have been so provided and at least the bank guarantee would not have been in the terms in which it exists. This language of the bank guarantee involved is quite understandable and is also reasonable. For the intention is not to make profit or seek enrichment at the cost of another which will be so if even when some refund has been made, the entire amount could be recovered under the bank guarantee. The purpose of the bank guarantee in the present case is to secure the beneficiary against any default in refund of the advance. Therefore, its encashment has understandably been permitted to the extent of default in refund of the advance. Thus, the beneficiary cannot merely say default has been committed. (27) He has to say what default and to what extent and to that extent encashment of the bank guarantee is permissible. It has been held by the Supreme Court in United Commercial Bank Versus Bank of India etc., that a bank is not liable to honour unless there is exact compliance with the terms of the credit. Such documents must be scrutinised with meticulo Fus care. Therefore. a bank guarantee can only be encashed as per its terms. The bank guarantee in question does not admit of encashment on the basis of a mere averment of default. The extent of default has to be averred and to that extent it is encashable - nothing more, nothing less. The Court will intervene to prevent any action on the part of the beneficiary which may be contrary to the terms of the bank guarantee. Strict adherence to the tms of the bank guarantee has to be ensured. The notices of demand for encashment of the bank guarantees relating to the mobilisation advances not being in accordance with terms of the bank guarantees in the present cases, these bank guarantees cannot be permitted to be encashed. The interim applications in all these cases are allowed to this extent and the defendant is restrained from encashing the bank guarantees regarding mobilisation advance in pursuance of the said notices. (28) Counsel for defendant has further argued that the bank has vide its letter dated 9.3.1992 showed its willingness to encash the bank guarantees. Therefore, there is no unpediment to encashment of the bank guarantees and the Court should not interfere. Having held that the party at whose instance the bank guarantee is given has a right to approach the Court to stop its encashment, it follows that this argument does not survive. Even otherwise the bank has only showed its willingness to pay as per orders of the Court. I have held that the mobilisation advance bank guarantees are not liable to be encashed in the facts of the case. The bank will abide by this direction. (29) In view of this decision, I need not go into the controversy between the parties regarding the extent to which the mobilisation advance already stands realised/adjusted by the defendant. According to the plaintiff the entire mobilisation advance already stands realised in all the cases' However, the defendant has denied this. The pleadings of the defendant in reply are vague, evasive and argumentative. The defendant has held back full information which is within its exclusive knowledge. On the other hand counsel for plaintiff has made a statement at the bar that the plaintiff has no objection to encashment of the mobilisation advance guarantees to the extent the mobilisation advance remains unrefunded in each case. By this statement the plaintiff has tried to assert and make good its plea that the mobilisation advance stands fully refunded. It is worth mentioning here that it is not the case of the defendant that no recovery at all has been made of the mobilisation advances. This means some recoveries have been made. During the course of hearing of these applications the parties have tried to make good their respective stand in thisbehalf. However, as already said, I need not go into this question for the present. (30) Performance Guarantee:- One of the performance guarantees has already been reproduced hereinbefore. The relevant clauses under the said guarantee are clauses 1 and 3. A reference to clause 1 shows that it is an irrevocable guarantee given for the due payment of the sum involved by the contractor to the beneficiary for the due performance of the obligations of the contractor as per the contract conditions. It further says that if default is made by the contractor in performing any of the terms or conditions of the contract or in payment of any money payable to the beneficiary under the contract of which the beneficiary shall be the sole judge, the beneficiary will communicate its decision to the bank which will be final and conclusive and binding on the bank. The bank has also undertaken that it will not be open to the bank to ask any reasons/details in this regard from the beneficiary and it will not question the same or make reference to the contractor in any manner whatsoever. The bank has promised to pay on demand without any protest, delay or demur and without any reference of any kind whatsoever to the contractor and in such manner as the beneficiary may direct, the amount of the bank guarantee or such portion thereof not exceeding that amount as the beneficiary may require or is payable to it by the contractor. The bank has placed itself in the position of a principal debtor and has undertaken to pay without any reference to the contractor. These words of the bank guarantee clearly show that the beneficiary has been made the sole judge regarding any defaults of the contractor or regarding any money payable on account of defaults or breach of contract by the contractor. The beneficiary has only to communicate its decision in this behalf to the bank and the bank has undertaken to pay as a principal debtor without protest, delay or demur and without reference to the contractor. Therefore, by a mere statement in the communication by the beneficiary to the bank that default has been committed by the contractor in performance of the conditions of the contract, the beneficiary can call upon the bank to pay whatever amount it may decide as payable by the bank subject to the maximum amount of the bank guarantee. A reference to the notices of demand particularly to the one issued on 27th February 1992 shows that the same meets the requirements of the bank guarantee and the bank cannot be interdicted in performance of the obligation undertaken by the bank under the bank guarantee. (31) In clause 3 of the bank guarantee it is provided that the right to recover conferred on the beneficiary under this guarantee will not be affected or suspended by reason of any dispute or disputes raised by the contractor which may be pending before any officer, tribunal, court, arbitrators/umpire. Thus the bank guarantee is very wide in its language, and sweep and it does not admit of any ground for interdicting its encashment except of course fraud or special equities. I may note here that there is no plea of fraud in relation to the performance guarantees in the present case. (32) The only grounds on which encashment of performance guarantees was sought to be stayed by the plaintiff are that the notice of demand is not in accordance with the terms of the bank guarantees and that there are special equities in favor of the plaintiff which call for an order of injunction against encashment of the bank guarantees. So far as the question of validity of the notice of demand is concerned the case was argued before me on the basis of the notices of demand issued by the defendant vide letters dated 19th November 1991, 5th December 1991. These notices provided ample scope for the arguments that were advanced by counsel for the plaintiff attacking the same. However, the subsequent notices issued by the defendant to the bank on 27th February 1992 knock out the entire arguments. In the subsequent notices the defendant has clearly communicated to the bank that the contractor has defaulted in the performance of its obligations under the contract agreement and, therefore, the defendant has called upon the bank to pay the entire amount under the bank guarantees. This the beneficiary could do as per the terms of the bank guarantee. Therefore, I do not find any ground to hold that the notice of demand is invalid. (33) Coming to the question of of special equities, counsel for the plaintiff has urged that in some of the cases almost the entire contract has been performed and the only reason for which the entire work could not be completed for instance in one of the cases is that the defendant insists on providing doors manufactured by a particular company. The said company is lying closed and, therefore, doors of that particular brand are not available. In another instance he submits that the defendant is insisting on use of tiles manufactured by only a particular company and those tiles are not at all available in the market. On the basis of these instances it is argued that defendant has prevented the plaintiff from completing its obligations under the contract and on account of this unreasonable attitude of the defendant the plaintiff should not be made to suffer. I do not consider that such instances as urged by the plaintiff fall within the category of special equities carved out as an exception to the rule in favor of encashment of bank guarantees. Secondly, the language of the bank guarantee in question makes the defendant as the sole judge of breach of contract and the amount to be claimed for this. Therefore, there is no scope for any one else to consider any mitigating circumstances. The contract provision supercedes everything. The contention of the counsel for the plaintiff that there are special equities requiring an injunction to the bank or the defendant restraining encashment of the bank guarantees cannot be sustained. (34) It follows from the above discussion that so far as the performance guarantees are concerned, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief and to this extent the prayer of the plaintiff in the interim applications stands rejected. (35) However, the defendant is restrained from encashing the bank guarantees furnished to it by the plaintiff to cover the mobilisation advances on the basis of the notices of demand dated 19th November 1991/5th December 1991/27th February 1992. (36) All the interim applications listed above stand disposed of. In the circumstances of the case there will be no order as to costs.