(Order of the Court was made by S.MANIKUMAR, J)

 Claiming himself to be a public interest litigant, petitioner has

 filed the instant writ petition, for a Writ of Mandamus, forbearing the

 respondents herein, their agents or servants, from constructing Solid

 Waste Management Building in the reserved public park site, situated in

 S.F.No.140/1A Part, 211/2, 216 Part, Idikarai Co-operative Nagar,

 Idikarai, Annur Taluk, Coimbatore District or for converting it for any

 other purpose. 2. In the supporting affidavit petitioner has contended that an

 extent of 4.32 1/2 acres in S.F.No.140/1A Part, 221/2, 216 part in 2/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 Idikarai Village, Annur Taluk, Coimbatore District, was developed, as

 Housing Plots by P.Chellamuthu, P.Srinivasan, R.Suganadevi,

 P.Chokkappan and S. Manimegalai and the said Lay-out consists of 44

 Housing Plots, was approved by the Deputy Director of Town Planning,

 vide D.D.T.P./C.L.P.A.No.26/2008, dated 19.03.2008. 3. Petitioner has further contended that the said approved layout

 consists of 44 housing plots, shops, roads, and an area of 11760 sq. feet

 and another 8010 sq. feet was reserved as Park Site and the same was

 handed over to the Executive Officer, Idikarai Town Panchayat,

 Coimbatore/the 3rd respondent, through registered Gift Deed, dated

 04.02.2009, bearing Document No.864/2009. 4. Petitioner has further contended that the developers of house

 site, had sold entire house site to the Coimbatore Co-operative Housing

 Society Ltd., No.1081, by Sale Deed, dated 08.06.2009 in Document

 No.4558 of 2009 and thereafter, the house site, named as “Idikarai

 Co-operative Nagar”. http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 5. Petitioner has further contended that the 3rd respondent, after

 taking the possession of two park sites, did not develop the same, as

 Public Park and left it vacant and further the respondents, did not

 provide basic facilities, such as laying roads, street light, sewerage

 connection, and water connection, till today. The residents of “Idikarai

 Co-operative Nagar” have made several demands, to the 3rd respondent,

 for development of public park and for providing basic facilities, but the

 3rd respondent, did not consider the demands of “Idikarai Co-operative

 Nagar” and on the other hand, the 3rd respondent herein, was involving

 in illegal act by dumping heavy wastages in the public park site and

 burning them which had resulted in causing lot of health hazard to the

 residents of Idikarai Co-operative Nagar. 6. Petitioner has further contended that in the month of May,

 2018, the 3rd respondent and their representatives, started foundation

 work, for construction of a Solid Waste Management building in the

 reserved park site. Immediately, the public started to agitate the illegal

 action of the 3rd respondent and one Mr.Kumar, a resident of “Idikarai

 Co-operative Nagar”, has made representation, dated 29.05.2018 to the 4/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 respondents requesting them, to stop the illegal activities and further

 requested them, to provide park in the site reserved as Public Park. After

 receiving the said representation, the 3rd respondent herein, did not

 consider the same and therefore, one Chandrakanthi another resident of

 “Idikarai Co-operative Nagar, has sent another representation, dated

 25.09.2018 to the respondents herein, again requesting them, to stop the

 illegal activities, but the 3rd respondent, without considering the same,

 is continuing their construction in the reserved park site. 7. Petitioner has further contended that, he has also sent a

 representation, dated 01.10.2018 to the respondents, to stop the illegal

 construction, but the respondents did not consider his representation, till

 today and they are proceeding with the construction work. 8. Petitioner has further contended that there are more than 40

 residents are living in “Idikarai Co-operative Nagar” area, by constructing

 houses by obtaining proper approval from the 3rd respondent. The open

 space in a residential area, is treated as lung space of the area and it

 provides fresh air and refreshment to the public in the neighbourhood 5/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 and it is for the health and well being of the inhabitants of the

 residential area and the same cannot be used for any other purpose. 9. Petitioner has further contended that, when a open space for

 construction of public park, is earmarked in the plan for development of

 a housing site, the respondents cannot ignore or neglect, to develop that

 open space into a public park, within a reasonable time, but the

 respondents herein without developing the open space into a public park

 are illegally converting for the purpose carrying out Solid Waste Scheme. For the abovesaid reasons, petitioner has filed the instant writ petition,

 for the relief, stated supra. 10. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and perused the

 materials available on record. 11. On this day, when the matter came up for hearing, Mr.L.Mouli,

 learned counsel for the petitioner, fairly submitted that in a similar

 W.P.No.34048 of 2017, this Court, vide order dated 10.07.2019,

 dismissed the same, as follows:- Immediately, the public started to agitate the illegal action of the 3rd
 respondent and sent their objections, through a representation dated
 23.09.2017 to the respondents asking them to stop the illegal activities and
 further requested them to provide a park in the site reserved, as public park.
 Respondents herein after receiving their representations dated 23.09.2017 are
 continuing their construction in the reserved park site. 6. According to the petitioners, there are more than 130 residents in
 Chinnaiah Gardens area by constructing houses by obtaining proper approval
 from the 3rd respondent. Petitioners have submitted that the open space in the
 residential area, is treated as a lung space of the area and it provides fresh air
 and refreshment to the public in the neighbourhood and it is for the health and
 well being of the inhabitants of the residential area and the same cannot be
 used for any other purpose. 7. Petitioners have further submitted that when a open space for
 construction of public park is earmarked in the plan for development of a
 housing site, the respondents cannot ignore or neglect to develop that open
 space into a public park within reasonable time, but the respondents herein
 without developing the open space into a public park, they are illegally
 converting for the purpose carrying out the Solid Waste Scheme. 8. According to the petitioners action of the respondents herein is
 illegal and in violation of Articles 14 , 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India.
 Inspite of petitioners' objections, the respondents are carrying out their
 preliminary works for establishing a Solid Waste Management Building in the 8/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 Park site situated in Chinnaiah Gardens, P.Vadugapalayam, Palladam Taluk.
 Therefore, the petitioners have filed the instant writ petition for the relief
 stated supra. Supporting the prayer sought for learned counsel for the
 petitioner relied on a judgment of this Court in SIDCO Nagar Welfare
 Association Vs. Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority and others ,
 reported in 2018 (5) CTC 857. 9. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and perused the
 materials available on record. 10. Issue as to whether a Solid Waste Management building can be
 constructed in a place earmarked for park has been considered by us in
 W.P.No.7038 of 2018 dated 15.11.2018. Order reads thus. 5. The issue regarding disposal of solid waste is being continuously
 monitored by National Green Tribunal. In fact, as late as 31.08.2018, the
 National Green Tribunal, Principal Bench, New Delhi has given directions
 regarding disposal of solid waste. The relevant paragraphs of the order dated
 31.08.2018 made in OA No.606 of 2018 in the matter of "compliance of
 Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016", reads as hereunder. 8. Meetings were held with all the States and Union Territories on
 02.08.2018, 07.08.2018, 08.08.2018, 13.08.2018 and 20.08.2018 on the
 aforesaid matter. At the conclusion of the interaction with the States and Union
 Territories, it was decided and declared that certain binding directions need to
 be issued by the Tribunal by forming Apex Level, Regional Level and State Level 9/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 Committees to oversee the steps taken for implementation of the Rules, 2016
 and the directions issued by the Tribunal and give a report to this Tribunal at
 the end of the quarter. The Committees may have interaction individually with
 the Statutory Authorities and the Urban Local Bodies. Accordingly, we are
 recording this order. The Registry may register these proceedings as a fresh
 Original Application. 17. We accordingly, propose to direct constitution of an Apex
 Monitoring Committee, Regional Monitoring Committees and State Level
 Committees to oversee the steps to be taken to give effect to the directions of
 this Tribunal so that if necessary, further action can be taken in the matter. 18. The role of the Apex Monitoring Committee will be to interact with
 the concerned Ministries and the Regional Monitoring Committees. The Apex
 Monitoring Committee may formulate guidelines/directions which may be useful
 to the Regional Monitoring Committees and the States/Union Territories. The
 Apex Monitoring Committee may meet preferably every month to take stock of
 the situation. Outstation members/invitees may participate by video
 conferencing unless their presence is considered necessary. The Apex
 Monitoring Committee may have meeting with all the Regional Monitoring
 Committees at least once in a month for two days to take stock of the progress
 and fix new targets. The report may be given to the Tribunal by e-mail once in
 a quarter. The Apex Monitoring Committee may have its website for
 dissemination of such information as may be necessary and also to enable
 public participation. The Committee may function for a period of one year
 subject to any further order. The constitution of the Apex Monitoring Committee will be as follows: Mission, Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs,
 Govt. of India

 The Apex Monitoring Committee will have the following Special
 Invitees: 19. The Regional Monitoring Committees shall ensure effective
 implementation of the Rules, 2016. The Regional Monitoring Committees shall
 also ensure that mixing of bio-medical waste with municipal solid waste does
 not take place and bio-medical waste and processed in accordance with The
 Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules, 2016. The Regional Monitoring
 Committees may meet preferably once in every week or longer intervals as per
 requirements. Out station members may participate by video conferencing
 unless physical presence is required. They may interact with Apex Monitoring
 Committee at suitable intervals. The Regional Monitoring Committees may also
 have inter se interaction as and when necessary. The Regional Monitoring
 Committees may have interactions with the concerned States at regular 11/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 intervals. The Regional Monitoring Committees may also consider having their
 website for the same purpose with the same objective as the Apex Monitoring
 Committee. The Regional Monitoring Committees if feel appropriate can solicit
 the service of the Special Invitees of the Apex Monitoring Committee and others
 whom they think can contribute to the cause of monitoring of the Rules, 2016.
 The Regional Monitoring Committees may specially consider compliance of the
 mandate of the Rules, 2016 at or around railway platform, railway tracks, bus
 stands or other places frequented by public. The Ministry of Railway may
 appoint Nodal Officers at Central, Zonal or other levels having specific
 responsibility of compliance of the Rules, 2016. The Regional Monitoring
 Committees may interact with such officers at appropriate intervals. The report
 may be given to the Apex Monitoring Committee twice in a quarter. Initially, a
 report may also be sent to the Tribunal by the Regional Monitoring Committees
 after three months of their working. The Regional Monitoring Committees will
 be paid remuneration and such logistic support as required by Department of
 Urban Development, Government of Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra,
 Tamil Nadu and West Bengal for Northern Zone, Central Zone, Western Zone,
 South Zone and Eastern Zone respectively. The States will be entitled to
 recover proportionate expenses from the member States and Union Territories
 in the respective zones All the States are advised to maintain the parity with
 regard to the remuneration of Chairperson of the Regional Monitoring
 Committees. The Committees may function for a period of one year subject to
 any further order. 20. The constitution of the Regional Monitoring Committees will be as
 follows: Eastern Zone - Kolkata
 Hon'ble Mr. Justice Jayanta Kumar Biswas Former 1. Chairman
 Judge, Calcutta High Court
 Principal Secretary, Urban Development,
 Member 2. Government of West Bengal, Kolkata, West
 Secretary
 Bengal. Principal Secretaries of Urban Development of
 State of Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Arunachal 3. Members
 Pradesh, Assam, Tripura, Manipur, Meghalaya,
 Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim
 Member Secretaries of PCBs/PCCs of Bihar,
 Jharkhand, Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, 4. Members
 Tripura, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland,
 Sikkim 5. Representative of CPC B Member

 Western Zone - Mumbai - Pune
 Hon'ble Mr. Justice J.P Devadhar Former Judge, 1. Chairman
 Bombay High Court
 Principal Secretary, Urban Development, Member 2. Government of Maharashtra Secretary
 Principal Secretaries of Urban Development of 3. Govt. of Gujarat, Goa, Daman & Diu, Dadra and Members
 Nagar Haveli
 Member Secretaries of State PCBs/PCCs of 4. Maharashtra, Gujarat, Goa, Daman & Diu, Dadra Members
 and Nagar Haveli 5. Representative of Central Pollution Control Board Member 13/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 Central Zone - Bhopal
 Hon'ble Mr. Justice K.K.Trivedi Former Judge, 1. Chairman
 Madhya Pradesh High Court
 Principal Secretaries of Urban Development
 Member 2. Government of Madhya Pradesh, Bhopal. Madhya
 Secretary
 Pradesh. Principal Secretary of Urban Development, 3. Members
 Government of Chattisgarh and Rajasthan
 Member Secretaries of Madhya Pradesh, 4. Rajasthan and Chattisgarh State Pollution Control Members
 Boards
 Representative of Central Pollution Control 5. Member
 Board. Southern Zone-Chennai
 Hon'ble Mr. Justice P.Jyothimani
 Former Judge Madras High Court 1. Chairman
 Former Judicial Member, NGT, Southern
 Bench, Chennai
 Principal Secretary, Urban Development, Member 2. Government of Tamil Nadu Secretary
 Principal Secretaries of Urban
 Development of Government of Karnataka, 3. Members
 Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana Puducherry,
 Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep Islands.
 Member Secretaries of PCBs/PCCs of
 Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, 4. Members
 Telangana and Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar
 Islands, Lakshadweep Islands. 5. Representative of CPC B Member 6. As directed under para 20, the South Zone, Chennai consists of
 following members. Southern Zone-Chennai
 Hon'ble Mr. Justice P.Jyothimani
 Former Judge Madras High Court 1. Chairman
 Former Judicial Member, NGT, Southern
 Bench, Chennai
 Principal Secretary, Urban Development, Member 2. Government of Tamil Nadu Secretary 14/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 Southern Zone-Chennai
 Principal Secretaries of Urban
 Development of Government of Karnataka, 3. Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana Members
 Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar Islands,
 Lakshadweep Islands. Member Secretaries of PCBs/PCCs of
 Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra 4. Members
 Pradesh, Telangana and Puducherry,
 Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep Islands. 5. Representative of CPC B Member 11. Though we dismissed W.P.No.7038 of 2018 on the grounds of
 alternative remedy, subsequently in WP No.12779 of 2018 dated 11.12.2018, we
 have also considered use of space earmarked for park, for conversion as a
 composite dumping yard, as hereunder. 9. Having a proper waste management program is one of the
 biggest challenges which is being faced by any Municipality. Courts can
 take judicial notice of the increase in the industrial, commercial and
 residential waste. Due to rapid urbanization, virtually no space is
 available for dumping waste. The Municipalities have therefore to
 balance the competing interests of having parks/ lung space on one
 hand and dumping yards on the other hand. The Municipalities
 therefore cannot be found fault with for converting portions of parks
 in to dumping yard. It is also the duty of the Municipality to ensure
 that the parks are maintained properly and that the entire park is not
 converted into dumping yard. The majority of the park is being kept
 intact and only a small portion of the park is being utilized for the
 compost yard . Similar issues have been raised before this Court in the
 Writ Petitions challenging conversion of the park to micro compost
 yard. This Court, by its order dated 08.11.2017 in W.P.No.26704,
 25653 and 26720 of 2017 in the case of Janakar Vs. The Commissioner,
 Hosur Municipality, Hosur, has observed as under:- 10. Similarly, the Division Bench of this Court by its order dated 17/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 14.03.2018 in W.P.No.32938 of 2017 in the case of T.G.Ruthramani, Secretary,
 Poonamallee Nanbargal Nagar, Veettu Manai Urimaiyalargal Nalasangam,
 Poonamallee, Thiruvallur District, Chennai, Vs. The Member Secretary, Chennai
 Metropolitan Development Authority, Thalamuthu Natarajan Maligal, Egmore,
 Chennai, has observed as under:- degradable wastes, such as vegetables, fruits and food waste can be
 reused by means of micro composting, where, the end product viz.
 manure can be effectively used for gardening and agriculture. It is
 the further case of the 1st respondent/Municipality that the Micro
 Composting facility is to occupy only a meagre portion of the
 playground with a Toilet for the workers engaged in the composting
 facilities to prevent open defecation in the area, apart from a small
 storage room for the safe storage of the packaged manure meant for
 disposal. http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 15. While making a layout, it is now mandatory to reserve
 10% of the total land for public purpose excluding the land for streets
 and roads within the layout. But, the same has not been done in the
 case on hand, as the layout was approved earlier to the Development
 Rules. Though the petitioner contends that the setting up of Micro
 Compost Plant in the playground in question is bound to create
 irrepairable and non-reversible pollution of air, land, ground water,
 besides emanating unbearable, filthy and dangerous odour, it is the
 case of the 1st respondent/Municipality that the waste generated by
 the residents of the petitioner's layout and the immediately
 surrounding areas, are being dumped by them in and around the
 Playground space itself. 16. Though the petitioner has raised genuine issues as
 regards pollution of all sorts due to the setting up of Micro Compost
 Plan in the Playground, this Court opines that the garbage that is
 dumped in and around the layout and playground, will be collected by
 the workers of Micro Compost Yard and segregated into bio-gradable
 wastes and non-bio-degradable wastes, to ensure that the place is
 neat. As regards pollution, the 1st respondent/ Municipality, in
 paragraph 9 of its counter affidavit, has clearly stated that the
 composting will be carried out in hermetically constructed tubs using
 bricks and concrete of proper specifications for water proofing and
 will be self-contained to prevent any spread of decaying matter or
 leachate into the surrounding environment. 17. Private lawns or public parks are not a luxury, as they
 were considered in the past. Public Park is a gift of modern
 civilization and that reservation of vacant land as an open land is in
 conformity with the rules and regulations for formation of the layout
 and is meant for public use and enjoyment and it cannot be disputed 19/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 that Open Space Reserve is treated as lung space. 18. The Apex Court has categorically held that where
 open space is preserved and earmarked in the plan for development
 of a planned town, the authorities cannot ignore the public interest
 and allot the same for construction of godowns, thereby causing
 environmental hazards. Ecology has been completely destroyed by
 human beings by encroaching OSR, playgrounds, river bunds, lakes,
 etc. But the official respondents must ensure that the waste has to
 be disposed of in a scientific manner. In a developing country,
 technicalities should not be a bar for development. 19. When a public park is a gift of modern civilization,
 Open Space Reserve is the lung space and setbacks are for the
 purpose of rain harvest, Micro Compost Yards are essential for
 disposal of the waste, so that it will not endanger the health of the
 citizens, more particularly, children, who are likely to be affected on
 account of mosquitoes, flies, etc, which cause air borne and water-
 borne diseases. When citizens want development, certainly, they will
 have to co-operate for the betterment of the environment and ensure
 that no pollution is caused on account of their attitude in disposing of
 the waste from their respective residence. Though, strictly speaking,
 Development Rules have come into effect in 1975 and that the layout
 in question was approved in 1972, there is no hard and fast rule that
 there cannot be any development at all. 20. Residents/citizens cannot expect the authorities to
 identify a different place far away from the place of residence to
 have a Compost Yard and that there is a possibility of the residents of
 that area to object for setting up of a Compost Yard for disposal of
 the waste which are not generated from their residence. 21. Now that the Government has come up with effective 20/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 policies in segregation of wastes of all kinds, people are expected to
 welcome such measures and must co-operate with the authorities in
 maintaining a healthy environment. Even though garbage bins are set
 up in every street, it is painful to see people throw garbage near the
 bin and not into the bin. From stone-age, we have come to the
 modern era. Certainly development is required for our betterment
 and hence, technicalities should not come in the way that may be
 detrimental to the development of the Society. 22. In view of the above and taking into account the
 submissions of the 1st respondent/Municipality that the Micro
 Compost Yard, that is to be set up in the Playground in question, will
 be neatly maintained without any pollution and that only a meagre
 portion of the Playground is required for setting up of Micro Compost
 Yard, this Court finds no reason to interfere with the impugned tender
 notice published by the 1st respondent/Municipality. 23. It is made clear that if the Micro Compost Yard that is
 to be set up in the Playground in question is not maintained properly,
 the officials, who are in-charge of that place during the relevant
 period shall be dismissed from service, on the ground that the Officer
 has failed to maintain absolute integrity, devotion to duty and that he
 has done the work of unbecoming of a member of his service. 11. As noticed in the above said judgments, it is the duty of the
 Municipal authorities to ensure that there is no nuisance created to the
 residents. The authorities shall ensure that the Municipal Solid Waste
 Management Plant/Transfer Station is to be cleaned twice a day and is to be
 done very regularly to avoid mosquitoes breeding in the portion of park. It is
 the duty of the authorities to ensure the park to maintain properly. The
 Municipality is directed to ensure that the remaining area of the park is 21/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 developed into a well maintained park. It is also directed that footpath and
 green belts and play equipments should be installed in the park. If the park is
 not maintained, it will be taken as contempt of the orders of this Court. 12. Instant writ petition is on similar facts. Decisions stated supra,
 squarely apply to the facts on hand. Following the decisions stated supra, WP
 No.34048 of 2017 is dismissed. No Costs. Consequently, the connected
 miscellaneous petition is closed." 12. In the light of the above, order made in W.P.No.34078 of 2017,

 dated 10.07.2019, is squarely applies to the case on hand. Following the

 same, instant writ petition is dismissed. No Costs. Consequently, the

 connected writ miscellaneous petition is closed. (S.M.K.,J) (S.P.,J)
 29.08.2019
 Index: Yes / No
 Internet: Yes / No
 dm 22/24 http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 To 1.The District Collector,
 Coimbatore District. 2.The Joint Director,
 Municipal Administration,
 Collectorate,
 Coimbatore. 3.The Executive Officer,
 Idikarai Town Panchayat,
 Idikarai, Coimbatore - 641 022. http://www.judis.nic.in W.P.No.29791 of 2018 S.MANIKUMAR, J. AND
 SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J. dm W.P.No.29791 of 2018 and W.M.P.No.34766 of 2018 29.08.2019 24/24 http://www.judis.nic.in