(Virtual Mode)

Justice M. Venugopal, Member (Judicial) : 2. Earlier, the `1st Respondent/Competition Commission of India'

while passing the `impugned order' dated 17.12.2021 (in Ref No. C- 2019/09/688/7099) against the `Appellant' (Amazon.com NV

Investment Holdings LLC under Sections 43A , 44 and 45 of the

Competition Act, 2002), among other things at Paragraph Nos. 33 to 40,

41 to 47, 57, 60, 68, 69, 75, 77, 80, 82, 83, had observed the following: Upon receiving ... approval, we engaged into deeper discussion
 with Taj on pricing / valuation, investment structure and strategic
 rights that we could get through an investment. As of last week, we
 have aligned with Taj on an investment framework to proceed

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 7 of 310 further with this transaction. A Business Commercial Framework
 (BCF) to build and accelerate Ultra-Fast Delivery across top-20
 cities in India leveraging Taj's national stores footprint as a
 Copperfield seller, is agreed in principle with Taj team; please
 refer to Annexure II for investment rationale and more details of
 the BCF. This note provides background on the transaction,
 details of the investment framework and FAQs addressing the key
 points to consider before going back to Taj team with our offer...
 FAQs 1. What are the strategic objectives that we want to achieve
 through Taj? We are looking to secure the following business objectives through
 this transaction: 2. What is our business rationale and BCF for Taj?
 We believe that a two-hour delivery promise, for 15,000 SKUs
 across top-20 cities will be a unique differentiating capability. It
 will allow us to cover 85% of our Prime members and 63% of all
 customers. To serve this customer base, we believe working closely
 with a large Copperfield seller is important. We believe that Taj is
 one of two key pan-India retailers worth pursuing (the other being
 Brigade). Taj has a strong portfolio of private label selection in

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 8 of 310 grocery (450+SKUs, across packaged foods, home and personal
 care) and value fashion (27 brands with a median ASP of $9.2
 (INR 600), contributing to 80% of their GMS for fashion). Against
 our investment of $400 to 600MM in TRL, we estimate the
 discounted cash flow value of BCF over 10 years of $702MM (INR
 45.6B); please refer to Annexure II for investment rationale and
 more details of the BCF. When foreign investment laws are relaxed
 and higher stake or acquisition of multi-brand retail assets is
 permitted beyond today's possibilities, we would have a foot-in-
 the-door to acquire more in this strategic asset, should we so
 desire at the time. For further details please refer to Annexure II -
 BCF Strategic Value. Importantly, our investment in TRL will be
 liquid given that TRL is publicly traded in the Indian stock market,
 and therefore, we can recover our investment in case TRL fails to
 deliver. 3. What is the proposed transaction? An overseas Amazon entity, registered as a 'foreign portfolio
 investor', will acquire 9.99% (through a fresh issuance of shares)
 of TRL. Simultaneous with the investment, Alpha India will enter
 into a commercial agreement (BCF) with TRL, and Taj Consumer
 Limited (TCL), and Taj Lifestyle Fashion Limited (TLFL) in
 relation to the matters listed in FAQ 2... 6. If we were to execute both Taj and Brigade, why is a Call Option
 important in both situations? Our ICs (BB, FK, Paytm Mall) are aggressive on grocery, general
 merchandise and general electronics categories. Specifically in
 grocery and fresh categories, we are lagging behind BB and FK is
 also nipping at our heels. Walmart's expertise in offline retail will
 likely spur FK and Alibaba's investment and technology will
 continue to push BB ahead. Given the above, we need to build deep strategic alignments with
 offline grocery retailers to leverage their execution capabilities to
 power our fresh and grocery offering. India has 6 offline retailers

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 9 of 310 (Taj, Brigade, Reliance Retail, D-Mart, Spencers and Nature's
 Basket). With a process of elimination on parameters of asset
 quality, partner quality and availability, only two i.e. Taj and
 Brigade remain. If we are able to close our investment in Brigade,
 we would secure a high quality asset, however it will lack the scale
 and national footprint that Taj offers. Further, Brigade is our bet
 to own a high quality grocery operation. Taj, on the other hand, is
 an investment in a multicategory Copperfield seller with a larger
 pan-India footprint. Getting a Call option in both assets allows us
 to acquire and raise our bet, at our discretion, in the player we feel
 best meets our objectives after having tested close operational
 alignment with both in 3-7 years following investment; when
 regulations permit. 7. If we were to execute both Taj and Brigade, how would we
 decide which Call Option to exercise then? Keeping aside our tenets of Financial Discipline for the moment;
 holding a Call Option in both assets keeps our options open and it
 also serves as an incentive / deterrent to Brigade / Taj. If Brigade
 executes flawlessly, we can exercise our Call Option (when legally
 permissible) and make Brigade a spearhead of our 1P grocery
 operations. If Brigade doesn't execute to our bar, then we can
 choose to pull back from further investments in Brigade and
 double down on our investments in Taj, provided that it meets our
 expectations. If Taj executes well both on BCF as well as an
 independent retail asset, when regulations relax, we will have the
 ability to increase our stake in India's largest offline retailer and
 keep our competition. If Taj doesn't execute well, we can exit our
 ownership in listed stock. Holding Call Options in both assets, thus
 allows us to control our destiny in a thoughtful manner in the
 future... Annexure II - Strategic value accruing to Amazon as a result of the
 Business Commercial Framework (BCF). Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 10 of 310 We started working with Taj, couple of years ago, as a Copperfield
 seller in three cities (across 23 stores) to learn and develop the
 ultrafast delivery model in India. In April-2018, we served about
 2000 orders per day with an AOV of $12.3 (INR 802) and UPO of
 9.3. We earn merchant fee of 5.4% and have a CPLF of -$4.55 (-
 INR 296) per order (55.5%). If we improve the order economics,
 we believe Taj's footprint of physical infrastructure can offer a
 unique 2-hour-delivery service across multiple categories in top-
 20 cities. Therefore, we constructed a BCF to estimate value
 creation from this partnership across their retail assets and
 private label capabilities. 1. Offer 2-hour-ready selection in top 4 cities with improved
 economics: An average hypermarket store carries an in-stock
 selection of about 15,000 SKUs - 8500 in softlines, 5500 in grocery
 and 2000 in general merchandising (primarily home and kitchen).
 There are 104 stores in top 4 cities. In five years we can scale to
 21K orders/day with an AOV of $24 (INR 1549) and GMS of
 $181MM (INR 11B). In this model we will bear only the last mile
 costs with increase in SoA fee for grocery at 13.5% (+810bps over
 current levels) and 32% for softlines. Therefore, we will improve
 our order economics with an OP per order of -$0.8 (- INR 53) or
 (+2495bps vs. 2021 LRF). OP less infra will be $1.3 (INR 84)
 (+2466 bps vs. 2021 LRF) 2. Build and expand 2-hour-delivery service in the next 16 cities: 3. Carry Taj's private label selection across grocery and softlines
 exclusively: We will leverage Taj's private label selection to
 substitute and accelerate the private label selection in Pantry. Our

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 11 of 310 2020-LRP assumes private-label penetration of 7.0% as
 proportion of Consumables GMS. We believe we can expand
 private-label participation to 18% by year-3 (current penetration
 of Taj is at 30% in FMCG and 60% in Staples). This will give
 incremental margins of INR 26 per order in Pantry. Taj has
 capabilities from design to manufacturing for fast and value-
 fashion brands in apparels, shoes and luggage. Leveraging this
 capability, we can improve the share of private labels to overall
 Softlines business by 10% (+500bps) in Year-5. Secondly, we
 expect Taj's fashion stores Fashion-Big-Bazaar, Central and
 Brand Factory to list as a seller, similar to Shopper Stop (we
 invested for a 5% stake in India's largest offline fashion
 department store to onboard 200K+ ASINs across 300 fashion
 brands) and generate additional 0.5MM order per month. We
 expect to improve Softlines CP by 507bps by year- by a
 combination of accelerated PL penetration, increased selection of
 Central and Brand Factory and improvement in SOA fees. 4. Foot-in-the-door and a strategic option value: Laws in India
 currently do not permit foreign investment in offline retail
 companies engaged in both food and non-food retail. This could
 change in the next 3-5 years, as government of India, is slowly
 relaxing the laws. At that point, Taj will likely still be the largest
 asset with pan-India footprint and the possibility of greater
 control." [Emphasis Supplied] 34. Another important internal document of Amazon that shows the basis
of entering into the Commercial Arrangements and the share acquisition
is its internal note dated 24th May, 2018, the relevant extract of which is
reproduced as under: [Emphasis Supplied] 35. The Commission notes that the above three internal documents
(Internal Correspondence) of Amazon Group are relevant to understand
its focus during negotiation with Future Group and what were its
objectives to be achieved by way of entering into the Combination. As
may be seen, the negotiations between the parties relating to the
Combination were taking place as early as May, 2018, wherein Amazon
initially planned to partner with Future Group, being a key player in the
offline retail market, by acquiring 9.99% shareholding in FRL as well as
entering into a business commercial framework to build and accelerate
ultra-fast delivery services across the top-20 cities in India, leveraging
the national footprints of Future Group. Through these transactions,
Amazon Group wanted to secure its ability to become the single largest
shareholder of FRL when the foreign direct investment opens up in the
retail sector; preclude/ block competitive interest in FRL and utilise the
pan-India store infrastructure of FRL to bolster the ultra-fast delivery
program and exclusively carry private label portfolio in grocery and
value fashion; and drive fees for Amazon. The rationale to enter into such
Combination included the need for Amazon to build deep strategic
alignments with offline grocery retailers to leverage their execution
capabilities to power the fresh and grocery offerings of Amazon. 36. The Approval Request dated 18th July, 2019 suggests that, in view of
certain developments relating to foreign investments in India, instead of
directly acquiring 9.9% shareholding in FRL, Amazon would use a twin-
entity investment structure to invest in FRL i.e., Amazon would acquire
49% shareholding in FCPL which, in turn would hold 8 - 10% of the

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 14 of 310 shareholding in FRL. It was further stated that the number of equity
shares of FRL to be held by FCPL was calculated such that Amazon can
indirectly hold the same number of shares of FRL that Amazon would
have acquired if it had directly invested the consideration in FRL.
Further, the consideration has been arrived at on the basis of traded
price of FRL shares, and a 25% premium is paid on account of the
strategic rights and call option. Furthermore, it is evident that
acquisition of shares in FRL/FCPL by Amazon was envisaged as a pre-
requisite to enter into commercial agreements between Amazon and
Future groups. 37. Seen against the above backdrop, the purpose of the Combination,
including the rights over FRL and the Commercial Arrangements with
FRL, as enlisted in the summary dated 18th July, 2019 appended to the
Approval Request was for investment in FRL and establishing a strategic
alignment/partnership between Amazon and Future groups, in the Indian
retail sector. 38. Now coming on to the Notice, it is relevant to look at Item 5.3 of Form
I, which requires the notifying party to disclose 'Economic and Strategic
purpose (including business objective and rationale for each of the
parties to the combination and the manner in which they are intended to
be achieved) of the Combination'. Amazon submitted the following as its
purpose for the Combination: 39. In terms of Regulation 13A of the Combination Regulations, the
notifying party is required to provide a summary of the combination
containing, inter alia, the nature and purpose of the combination. The
relevant extract of the summary filed by Amazon against this requirement
states that: 40. Upon examination of the Notice, a specific query was posed to
Amazon, vide letter dated 9th October, 2019, in relation to Item 5.3 of
the Notice viz., '2.13'. With reference to item 5.3 of Form I, please
provide the following: ... (c) According to media articles and statements
of Mr. Kishore Biyani, the investment by Amazon is strategic to become
a part of the ecosystem. Please elaborate'. In response, Amazon had
elaborated the gift card business of FCPL and the interest of Amazon to
expand its portfolio in the payments landscape in India and stated that: 41. A further query on the rationale of the rights under FRL SHA was
posed to Amazon vide letter dated 24th October, 2019 viz. '2.5. As per the
notice, Acquirer will get certain rights over the FRL. You are required to
provide details of shareholding (directly / indirectly), affirmative
rights/veto rights/ rights not available with ordinary shareholders in FRL
or rights with respect to FRL being acquired by Amazon and strategic
and or economic rationale for such rights'. In response, Amazon, inter
alia, stated that: [Emphasis Supplied] 42. Amazon had further claimed in the said response that it does not have
any direct or indirect shareholding in FRL22, and with a view to protect
its investment in FCPL, certain rights have been granted with respect to
FCPL's investment in FRL. These rights were stated to be: (a)
'contractual investor protection right... with no voting rights, with a view
to protect its investment in FCL [FCPL]'23; (b) 'standard investment
protection rights that are commonplace in investment agreements'24; (c)
'it would be important to note that not only are investors rights limited
in scope, they also not extend to any subject matter that encroaches upon
the commercial and operation decision making process of the FRL...25';
and (d) 'investor drives value of its investment from FCL and FRL (by
virtue of being an underlying asset of FCL). Therefore, it is essential for
the Investor to secure certain rights to protect its investment'26. 43. In stark contrast to the Internal Correspondence of Amazon, the
disclosures made against Item 5.3 of Form I, summary filed pursuant to
Regulation 13A of the Combination Regulations, query 2.13(c) of letter
dated 9th October, 2019 and query 2.5 of the letter dated 24th October,
2019, did not indicate a possibility of the Combination being pursued by
Amazon for having a 'foot-in-door' in the Indian retail sector, acquire
strategic rights over FRL or entering into any commercial partnership
with FRL to expand the ability of Amazon in ultra-fast delivery services.
Instead, the business potential of FCPL was shown as the driving factor

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 17 of 310 for Amazon to pursue the Combination and FRL was merely shown as a
factor of financial strength. The Internal Correspondence of Amazon
makes it abundantly clear that Amazon was all along focussed/interested
in FRL. The Internal Correspondence of Amazon does not speak about
the business potential of FCPL, as has been claimed and projected in the
Notice and in the responses to the letters of the Commission. Similarly,
the Notice presents the rationale of indirect rights over FRL, as
protection to investment in FCPL but the Situation Update dated 10 th
July, 2018 identifies the same set of rights as answer to the following
question 'What strategic rights do we get through this investment.' The
expressions used by Amazon to describe the rationale behind the indirect
rights over FRL varied from time to time: 'strategic rights' in its Internal
Correspondence; 'protection to investment in FCPL' in the Notice given
to Commission; and 'rights derived from FRL SHA are to protect the
interest of the investor [Amazon]' in the response to SCN. While the
object and purport of mere investor protection rights are limited to
protect the investment made, the object and purport of strategic rights,
such as those reflected in the Internal Correspondence, are much
different. Such difference is of significance in establishing a proper
understanding of a combination and its purpose, and accordingly,
deciding the appropriate line of inquiry to assess the effects of the
combination on competition. The Commission observes that, in every
case of investment, the acquirer would want to protect the value of its
investment and the returns therefrom. However, when a strategic
acquisition is contemplated to achieve synergies amongst the business
activities of acquirer and target enterprise through acquisition of
shareholding (or) integration of whole/part of their business (or)
commercial contracts/arrangements (or) a combination of these, any
right accruing to acquirer pursuant to such acquisition would be beyond,
but not limited to, mere investor protection. The purpose of securing
strategic interest over FRL and commercial partnership with FRL is
much different from FRL, a company with strong financials and futuristic
outlook, being merely taken as an element of financial strength and
protection to the investment in FCPL. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 18 of 310 44. In the Notice, Amazon had represented that its rationale behind the
Combination was the business potential of FCPL to create long term
value and provide return on the investment made by Amazon. However,
the Internal Correspondence of Amazon clearly shows different purposes
for envisaging the Combination (i.e., 'foot-in-door' in the Indian retail
sector, secure rights over FRL that are considered as strategic by
Amazon and Commercial Arrangements between the retail business of
Future Group and Amazon). In its response to the letters dated 9 th
October, 2019 and 24th October, 2019 of the Commission, Amazon had
continued with the suppression of actual purpose of the Combination.
Amazon has not contested the genuineness of the Internal
Correspondence or their contents. It is obvious that the purpose of
Amazon to pursue the Combination was not the potential of the gift and
loyalty card business of FCPL, as has been claimed in the Notice. Rather,
FCPL was envisaged only as a vehicle in the Combination to which no
value or purpose is ascribed in the Internal Correspondence. Further, it
is clear from the above discussed e-mail dated 19th July, 2019 that the
entire consideration of the Combination has been arrived at on the basis
of 25% premium to the regulatory price of FRL shares and that such
premium was paid on account of the strategic rights and the call option
provided to Amazon. Thus, the instant matter is a clear, conscious and
willful case of omission to state the actual purpose of the Combination
despite the disclosure requirement under Item 5.3 of Form I read with Regulation 5 of the Combination Regulations and Section 6(2) of the Act.
Further, Amazon has failed to provide any material or plausible
explanation in its response to the SCN and in the subsequent submissions
to demonstrate that its disclosures against Item 5.3 are correct and that
the business potential of FCPL was a consideration for Amazon to pursue
the Combination. Seen in the context of the Internal Correspondence and
failure to provide any of the said material and/or explanation, it is
evident that Amazon, in addition to the omission to state the purpose of
the Combination, has misrepresented the Commission by stating that the
purpose of the Combination is an opportunity arising from the business
potential of FCPL and to add credibility to FCPL's financial position,
FCPL invested and proposed to further invest in FRL, a company with
strong financials and futuristic outlook. Seen against the backdrop of
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 19 of 310 Internal Correspondence, the statements of Amazon in the Notice and
subsequent submissions dated 15th November, 2019 regarding the
purpose of the Combination, stand belied. It is evident that these
statements have been made with full knowledge that the same are false
in material particulars. Amazon had misled the Commission to believe,
through false statements and material omissions, that the Combination
and its purpose were the interest of Amazon in the business of FCPL. 45. At this juncture, it also relevant to look at the disclosure of Amazon
against Item 8.8 of Form I, which requires a notifying party to furnish
documents, material (including reports, studies, plan, latest version of
other documents), etc. considered by and/or presented to the board of
directors and/or key managerial person of the parties to the combination
and/or their relevant group entities, in relation to the proposed
combination. The purpose of this requirement is to understand the
commercial and economic contours of the given combination in addition
to the legal contracts submitted as trigger documents against Item 8.7 of
Form I. True and complete disclosure against Item 8.8 enables the
Commission to determine the appropriate framework for competition
assessment of the Combination. In response to Item 8.8, Amazon had
furnished a presentation titled 'Taj Coupons - Business Plan for 5 years'.
The eightpage presentation provides only a brief idea of the gift voucher
business of FCPL, its business operating model, estimated five-year
business size, organisation design, sales team and financial summary,
without any reference to FRL. 46. Considering the disclosures in the Notice, including that against Item
8.8, a specific query was posed to Amazon vide letter dated 24th October,
2019 of the Commission: '2.1 It is noted that in terms of query 8.8 of
Form I, Parties have not furnished requisite documents. Accordingly, you
are required to provide documents, material (including reports, studies,
plan, latest version of other documents), etc. considered by and/or
presented to the board of directors and/or key managerial person of the
parties to the combination and/or their relevant group entities, in
relation to the proposed combination. Further, for each document,
indicate the date of preparation and the name and title of the
addressee(s)'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 20 of 310 47. In response, Amazon furnished copies of resolution authorising the
execution of FCPL SSA and FCPL SHA, and copies of the reports on
legal due-diligence and key tax issues relating to FCPL. Neither copies
of the above discussed Internal Correspondence nor any other document
containing the actual purpose reflected in the said documents was
furnished to the Commission. It is noted that no purpose elaborated in
the Internal Correspondence surfaced in any of the material furnished
against Item 8.8 of Form I or query 2.1 of the letter dated 24 th October,
2019 of the Commission. Similarly, the purpose of the Combination
stated in the Notice and subsequent submissions of Amazon, were not a
consideration in the Internal Correspondence. These clearly establish
that Amazon had knowingly suppressed relevant and material documents
to be furnished under Item 8.8 of Form I. 57. It is observed that, in response to Item 5.1.1, no reference was given
to FRL SHA or the Commercial Arrangements. Amazon had merely
submitted that the value of assets and turnover of FRL is higher than the
jurisdictional threshold prescribed under Section 5(a)(i)(A) of the Act.
Based on the information relating to the constituent steps of the
Combination provided in pages 2 and 3 of the Notice and the disclosure
against Item 5.1.2, it is apparent that the financials of FRL were taken
into consideration as it was identified as the target enterprise in
Transaction II. However, no reference was made to FRL SHA in the
disclosures against Items 5.1.1 and 5.1.2. FRL SHA and the commercial
agreements, being inter-connected parts of the Combination, their details
ought to have been furnished in Item 5.1.2 of Form I. In response to Item
5.1.3, Amazon had given a list of rights to be acquired by it in terms of
FCPL SHA to protect its investment in FCPL (Table 3 - The rights
proposed to be acquired by the Investor in terms of the SHA to protect its
investment in FCL) 34. In this section, it has been brought out that FCPL
has to take Amazon's consent for exercising some of its rights under FRL
SHA. However, it has never been the case that Amazon disclosed the fact
that FRL SHA was negotiated as a part of the Combination and was
executed to achieve one of the objectives of the Combination. Similarly,
no reference about the commercial agreements was made in this section
of the Notice. The Commission observes that mere consideration of the

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 21 of 310 values of the asset and turnover of FRL cannot be considered as
notification of FRL SHA and BCAs, as parts of the Combination. 60. As may be seen above, details of FRL SHA were not mentioned in
Item 5.2. As has emerged now, FRL SHA and the commercial agreements
were inter-connected parts of the Combination and accordingly, their
details ought to have been disclosed against Item 5.1.2 and in the above
table. 68. The Internal Correspondence of Amazon clearly highlights that the
rights of Amazon over FRL are at the heart of the negotiations and the
need for FRL SHA was to achieve the said objective of the Combination.
It is for these strategic rights and for the call option, that Amazon had
paid a premium of 25% over the regulatory share price of FRL. This
makes it clear that neither FRL SHA would have been executed in the
absence of other steps/transactions of the Combination nor would
Amazon have gone ahead with Transaction III in the absence of FRL
SHA. However, in blatant disregard of Regulation 9(4) and 9(5), read
with Items 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.2 and 8.7 of Form I, FRL SHA was not disclosed
in the Notice in its actual context; its inter-connectedness to FCPL SSA
and FCPL SHA were suppressed in spite of the disclosure requirements
under the said provisions of Combination Regulations. In other words,
the mentioning of FRL SHA in footnote 3 of the Notice can, in no manner,
be considered a notification of the same as a part of the Combination
either in substance or form. This is more so when there were repeated or
categorical assertions that the rights over FRL are limited to investor
protection and no influence over FRL is acquired and FRL SHA was
negotiated independent of the combination. Therefore, Amazon failed to
give a single notice covering all the inter-connected steps of the
combination, as required in Regulation 9(4) read with Regulations 9(5)
and 5 of the Combination Regulations, and Section 6(2) of the Act.
Further, Amazon also failed to give true and complete disclosure with
respect to substance of its combination in this case, as the FRL SHA was
pursued to ensure that the business of FRL become a strategic asset for
Amazon to expand and enhance its ultra-fast delivery services. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 22 of 310 69. The Internal Correspondence show that the strategic rights over FRL
though FRL SHA and FCPL SHA were contemplated by the parties to
establish and cement their strategic partnership through a series of
commercial agreements. The inquiry in pursuance of the SCN reveals
that the Commercial Agreements were essential and inter-connected
parts of the Combination and those were the trigger for Amazon to
acquire shareholding in FCPL as well as secure rights over FRL. The
fact that the commercial agreements are integral parts of the
Combination was suppressed in the Notice and the subsequent
submissions of Amazon. Amazon had consistently represented that BCAs
are independent of the Combination. In para 65 of the Notice, the
arrangements between Amazon and FRL for listing of the products of the
latter in Amazon marketplace were claimed as "neither inter-connected
with, nor part of, the Proposed Combination". In para 96 of the Notice,
the arrangement between ARIPL and Future Consumer for supply of food
category products to the formers was stated as "not related to the
Proposed Combination, in any manner whatsoever". Further, in para
100 of the Notice, in relation to the memorandum between APIPL and
FRL to offer the option of making payments through the Amazon Pay
semi-closed wallet to end consumers making purchases across retail
outlets and websites operated by FRL and entities controlled or wholly
owned by FRL, it was clarified that the MoU is not related to the
Proposed Combination, in any manner whatsoever. Amazon continued
with these assertions in paragraphs 45 and 72 of the written submissions
dated 15th November, 2019, filed in response to the letter dated 9th
October, 2021 of the Commission and paragraphs 4 and 44 of the written
submissions dated 15th November, 2019, filed in response to the letter
dated 24th October, 2021 of the Commission. These repeated assertions
invariably suggest that these commercial contracts were negotiated and
executed in the normal course of business of the concerned parties
independent of the Combination. The distorted disclosures and omissions
in the Notice and subsequent submissions dated 15 th November, 2019 of
Amazon, as discussed above, do not allow to even suspect that the
Commercial Arrangements were parts of the Combination to establish a
strategic alignment between the parties in retail sector. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 23 of 310 75. A holistic appreciation of the Notice and material brought on record
reveals that there has been a wilful and deliberate design threaded across
the Notice and subsequent submissions dated 15th November, 2019 of
Amazon, to suggest that the Combination consists of only Transaction I,
Transaction II and Transaction III; and that FCPL SSA and FCPL SHA
are the only two agreements entered into between the parties in relation
to the Combination. The manner and extent of assertions regarding FRL
SHA is that the same was a pre-existing arrangement amongst the
shareholders of FRL, executed pursuant to the Warrants Transaction,
and it was negotiated independent of Transaction III i.e., acquisition of
49% stake in FCPL by Amazon. The inter-connection between FRL SHA
and the Combination was suppressed. Similarly, the BCAs, although
disclosed, were claimed as neither inter-connected with, nor a part of the
Combination. However, the Internal Correspondence brings out that
BCAs and acquisition of strategic rights over FRL, through the
acquisition of shares in FCPL, had been considered together as parts of
one composite package, viz., 'Project Taj [Future Group] - Investment
in National Multi-category Copperfield Seller'. FCPL was merely a
vehicle for Amazon to acquire interest over FRL, and such interest was
considered necessary to implement strategic alignments between the
business activities of Future and Amazon groups in India. 77. The Commission notes that the details of overlap between FRL and
Amazon Group, provided in the Notice, and subsequent submissions of
Amazon as well as the competition assessment conducted in the Approval
Order are in the context of FCPL holding warrants in FRL. However, the
said assessment is definitely not from the perspective of strategic
alignments between FRL and Amazon Group. This is obvious from the
Approval Order as it does not make any reference to FRL SHA or the
BCAs. The Commission observes that the effect of commercial contracts
entered into between FRL and Amazon Group entities, in their normal
course of business, would be considerably different from parties
contemplating strategic alignments between their business through
strategic investments. The regulatory process of notification by the
parties that would follow an admission of the commercial contracts being
part of the combination and also the purpose of the strategic acquisition

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 24 of 310 of shares and rights would entail consequential presentation of facts,
representations, clarifications and undertakings, if any, which would not
be present when such contracts are independent of the combination. The
nature of inquiry by the Commission in these cases would also be
necessarily with due regard to the acquisition and contracts being part
of one single understanding to establish a strategic partnership. This
regulatory process, in itself, makes the notifying party to furnish true,
correct and complete information regarding the actual combination
pursued by the parties and thus, meet the requirements of the Act and the
Regulations framed thereunder. Concurrently, such process would
enable the Commission to appreciate the combination in its actual sense,
and accordingly, discharge its functions in terms of the Act. If one were
to argue otherwise, it would be sufficient that the notice filed with the
Commission merely describes the name of the parties and their business
activities and there would be no need to give any other detail as required
in Form I or Form II, including the scope of arrangements, their
purposes and context of the combination. This is ex facie contrary to the
scheme and intendment of the Act and Combination Regulations. 80. Given that the Combination is between players who are known in the
online marketplace and offline retailing and they have contemplated
strategic alignment between their businesses, the Commission considers
it necessary to examine the combination afresh based on a notice to be
given in Form II with true, correct and complete information, as required
therein. Accordingly, in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-
section (2) of Section 45 of the Act, the Commission hereby directs
Amazon to give notice in Form II within a period of 60 days from the
receipt of this order, and, till disposal of such notice, the approval
granted vide Order dated 28th November, 2019, in Combination
Registration No. C-2019/09/688, shall remain in abeyance. 82. In the instant case, all the contraventions discussed above arise from
a deliberate design on the part of Amazon to suppress the actual scope
and purpose of the Combination, and the Commission finds no mitigating
factor. Resultantly, the Commission considers it appropriate to levy the
maximum penalty of INR One Crore each under the provisions of Section

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 25 of 310 44 and Section 45 of Act. Accordingly, Amazon is directed to pay a
penalty of INR Two Crore. 83. As regards failure to notify combination in terms of the obligation
cast under Section 6(2) of the Act, Section 43A of the Act enables the
Commission to impose a penalty, which may extend to one percent of the
total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a combination.
Accordingly, for the above mentioned reasons, the Commission hereby
imposes a penalty of INR Two Hundred Crore upon Amazon. and `Amazon' was directed to pay the `monetary penalty' as imposed

(vide paras 82 and 83), within a period of 60 days from the date of receipt

of this order." Appellant's Submissions in Competition Appeal (AT) No. 1 of 2022: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 28 of 310 12. It is the version of the `Appellant' the Competition Act does not

empower revisiting or reopening the `Approvals' granted after 210 days

in case a notification is filed under Section 6 (2) of the Competition Act

or one year from the date on which a combination took effect, in respect

of cases covered under ` Section 20 (1) of the Competition Act, 2002'. 13. The Appellant's submission is that in the instant case, the

`Notification' was filed by the `Appellant' on 23.09.2019 and the `1 st

Respondent/Commission' having passed an order under Section 31 of the

Competition Act, could not have directed the filing of `FRL SHA' as a

`Combination' when the same stood disclosed and was also not the direct

trigger for the Notification. 14. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' projects an argument that

the `1st Respondent/Commission' issued a `Show Cause Notice' dated

04.06.2021 under Regulation 48 of the Competition Commission of India

(General) Regulations, 2009 and assuming without admitting that there

was no `notification' of the `FRL SHA', then, the bar of one year under

the proviso would operate and that the `1st Respondent/CCI', had failed

to appreciate this aspect of the matter. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 29 of 310 15. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' submits that penalty

under Section 44 and 45 of the Competition Act, 2002 is only attracted

where the alleged omission / suppression / misrepresentation is material

to the `1st Respondent/CCI' assessment of the notified combination. 16. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' contends that the

complaint dated 25.03.2021 was filed by `FCPL' with full knowledge

that `FCPL' and `FRL' through their Legal Counsel M/s. Trilegal, were

actively involved in the preparation of and had approved all submissions

made by the `Investor' in the Notification. 17. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' brings it to the notice of

this `Tribunal' that the `impugned order' primarily relies upon the

internal correspondence of the `Investor' dated 24.05.2018, 10.07.2018

and 19.07.2019 and that the emails relating to the year 2018 relate to the

period when `Amazon' was exploring various investment structures,

including direct investment in `FRL' under the `Foreign Portfolio

Investment Route'. 18. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' takes a plea that only

such facts which impinge upon assessment of whether a notified

combination causes or is likely to cause `AAEC' in terms of the factors

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 30 of 310 mentioned in Section 20 (4) of the Competition Act would be considered

as `material' for the purposes of Section 44 and 45 of the Act, and

therefore, `no penal action' much less a `revocation' is warranted. Furthermore, all information pertaining to `BCAs' was disclosed and

`BCAs' would be given effect to, only after the receipt of the approval

from the `1st Respondent/CCI'. 19. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' emphatically takes a

stand that an `Authority' created by a `Statute' must not trespass into the

arena of the matters of `Adjudication' to be made by an `Arbitral

Tribunal'. Moreover, the `1st Respondent/CCI' had proceeded to conduct

its `AAEC' analysis on the assumption of the Contemplated Integration

of the `Investor Affiliates' with `FRL' (even before the `Investor' is in a

position to exercise the `Call Option'). 20. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' submits that only Section

44 of the Competition Act, 2002 is applicable to the instant case, as it

applies to parties to a `combination', filing a notice under Section 6 (2) of the Competition Act. However, in the present case, there is no

`misstatement' or `misrepresentation' or `false information' that was

material to the commission's assessment of the `notified Combination'

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 31 of 310 and hence the said provision is `inapplicable' to the present case. 21. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' contends that `any order'

passed by the `Commission' must be consistent with the ingredients of

the Competition Act, 2002 , and any `condition' mentioned in the

`Approval Order' must be pursuant to the exercise of a power which is

expressly conferred on the `1st Respondent/Commission' and available

under the Competition Act, 2002 . 22. It is the stand of the `Appellant' that the self same contention of

`inconsistency in positions' was urged by the `FCPL', the `Promoters'

and `FRL' before the `Arbitral Tribunal' and rejected in the `Partial

Award' dated 20.10.2021 and that the `Partial Award' can be questioned

only when the `Final Award' is passed as per the ` Arbitration and

Conciliation Act, 1996 and as such it is not permissible to canvass the

same point in the instant proceedings. 23. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' contends that in the

instant case, the `1st Respondent/CCI' had acted in breach of the

`Principles of Natural Justice' when it considered entirely a new case

against the `Appellant' resting on the confidential internal

documents/emails dated 24.05.2018, 10.07.2018, 04.04.2019 and

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 32 of 310 19.07.2019 without issuing a separate `Show Cause Notice' to the

`Appellant'. 24. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' submits that neither the

`Show Cause Notice' nor the `FCPLs' complaint dated 25.03.2021

(which formed basis) contained even a `whisper' to either the emails /

internal documents or the allegations relating to the failure to notify the

`BCAs' as part of the `notified Combination'. According to the

`Appellant' later, these documents/emails were filed by `FCPLs' as part

of its `Response' dated 22.11.2021. 25. The plea of the `Appellant' is that in the absence of a separate

`Show Cause Notice' setting out the case being considered by the `1st

Respondent/CCI' against the `Appellant', the `Appellant' was not

provided with an adequate opportunity to clarify its position in regard to

the emails/documents. If the `Appellant' was apprised that an explanation

was required about the context and contents of the internal

documents/emails, it could have put forward relevant evidence to explain

the purpose and the context of these internal documents/emails. 26. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' points out that the

`Appellant' had raised an objection that the "material adduced by FCPL

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 33 of 310 before the Commission being pleadings before the arbitrators are

disclosures made in contravention of the provisions of Section 42A of the

Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996", although, was noted in the

`impugned order' by the `CCI', this objection, was dismissed by the `1st

Respondent/CCI' based on the reason that the proceedings before the

`CCI' and the `Arbitration Proceedings' were mutually independent. 27. It is represented on behalf of the `Appellant' that the `impugned

order' had failed to address the Appellant's objection regarding the fact

that `CAIT's' participation in the `Show Cause' proceedings, inspite of

the fact that `CAIT' was a `stranger' to the proceedings initiated based

on `Show Cause Notice' issued only to the `Appellant' in violation of the

established `Principles of Confidentiality'. 28. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' submits that the

`impugned order' passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' had failed to

deliberate pertaining to the fact whether it has the power to `revoke' an

`approval' inspite of the objections raised by the `Appellant' in the `Show

Cause Notice' proceedings, keeping in `abeyance', an `Approval Order'

more than two years ago and initiating a fresh enquiry disregarding the

limitation imposed as per Section 20 (1) of the Competition Act and the

indifferent observations pertaining to `Fraud', without any `prima facie'

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 34 of 310 as to how the alleged Misrepresentation/Suppression/

nondisclosures had an impact on the `1st Respondent's assessment

of the notified transactions all of which may have been given `due

consideration' in the presence of a `Judicial Member' which the `1 st

Respondent/CCI' is presently lacking and on these grounds, the

`impugned order' of the `1st Respondent/CCI' is to be set aside by this

`Tribunal'. 29. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' comes out with an

argument that the `1st Respondent/CCI', being a `Statutory Authority' is

not to be permitted to improve its `case' in `Appeal' as per decision of

the `Hon'ble Supreme Court' in `Mohinder Singh Gill V Chief Election

Commissioner, reported in 1978 1 SCC at page 405, wherein at paragraph

8 it is observed as under: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 35 of 310 Public orders, publicly made, in exercise of a statutory authority
 cannot be construed in the light of explanations subsequently
 given by the officer making the order of what he meant, or of what
 was in his mind, or what he intended to do. Public orders made by
 public authorities are meant to have public effect and are intended
 to affect the actings and conduct of those to whom they are
 addressed and must be construed objectively with reference to the
 language used in the order itself. Orders are not like old wine becoming better as they grow older." 30. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' takes a stand that there is

no inconsistency in `Appellant's position taken before the `Arbitrational

Tribunal' and the `Constitutional Courts' and the `1st

Respondent/Competition Commission of India'. 31. Expatiating his argument, the Learned Counsel for the

`Appellant'/`Amazon' submits that the context of the `submissions'

made in the `Notification' was to `notify' a transaction based on the

`Agreements' executed between the `parties to the Combination'. But the

context of `submissions' advanced before the `Arbitration Tribunal' was

the `Violation of the Agreements' between the `parties'. In reality, it is

pointed out on behalf of the `Appellant' that all `submissions' made in

the `Notification' were vetted and approved by the common Learned

Counsels for `FCPL' and `FRL' and it was a `conjoint effort'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 36 of 310 32. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' proceeds to point out that

at the time of filing of the said `Notification', the `parties' had not

anticipated `any violation' and this fact was omitted from `consideration'

in the `impugned order' passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' and hence,

the said order is vitiated. 33. Advancing his arguments, the Learned Counsel for the `Appellant'

points out that the `Notification' filed under Section 6 (2) of the

Competition Act is made with a view to enable the `1st Respondent/CCI'

to carry out an ex-anti assessment of the `notified Combination'. Further,

the information submitted in the `Notification' broadly relates to the

`Agreement' executed between the `Parties' the rights being acquired

under these `Agreements' overlaps in the `Business Activities' of the

`Parties' and the existing and potential vertical and complimentary

linkages and market share of the `Parties' in the relevant market(s). 34. According to the Appellant's plea, there is no express requirement

under `Form I' for a notifying party to submit `emails' exchanged

between the parties and their Learned Counsel (such as the email dated

04.04.2019, being relied upon by the `1st Respondent/CCI' in the

`impugned order. Likewise, there is no requirement under Form I to

disclose the factors considered in deciding the amount of consideration

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 37 of 310 paid by an `Acquirer'. In reality, the `price of shares' is not within the

`purview of enquiry' in as much as, it is based on `mutual agreement' and

`multiple Business Factors'. 35. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' points out that the

`Arbitrational Proceeding' is an `International Commercial Arbitration',

as per Part I of the ` Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 ' seated in

New Delhi. In this connection, it is the contention of the Learned Counsel

for the `Appellant' that it was led to believe that the case being considered

by the `1st Respondent/CCI' based on `purported inconsistencies' in the

pleadings, set out before the `Arbitration Tribunal' and those made before

the `1st Respondent/CCI'. 36. It is the clear cut stand of the `Appellant' that the `Arbitration

Tribunal' had considered the `submissions' projected before by the

`Parties' before it, and held that the `Appellant' has not taken any

`contradictory stand' before the `1st Respondent/CCI' and the

`Arbitration Tribunal'. 37. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' by adverting to the

complaint dated 25.03.2021 submits that the `2nd Respondent/FCPL'

mentioned that the submissions made by the `Appellant' before the

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 38 of 310 `Emergency Arbitrator' and the `Indian Courts' on the one hand and the

submissions projected before the `1st Respondent/CCI' indicate that the

`Appellant' misleading representations regarding its intention while

seeking an `Approval' from the `1st Respondent/CCI'. 38. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' contends that the

`Purview of Combination' was disclosed to the `1st Respondent/CCI'. In

this regard, it is the plea of the `Appellant' that there was no

`misrepresentation' on Appellant's part because of the fact that (i) The

Warrants Transaction (whereby FCPL had acquired warrants amounting

to 7.3% of the share capital of FRL on a fully diluted basis) and the FRL

SHA were disclosed as constituting the background to the Appellant's

Investment (vide page 1 of the main Notification Form). (ii) Proposed

Transaction II (whereby FCPL was acquiring an additional 2.52% shares

in FRL) was identified as a condition precedent to the Appellant's

investment (iii) It was expressly mentioned in the response to query 5.1.1

which required details of acquisition or merger or amalgamation, as the

case may be, with reference to relevant clause of Section 5 , that the

combination was notified solely because of FRL. (Para 14 of the

notification form @ page 19 (Volume 1) of Convenience Compilation)

and the combination was notified as a composite combination,

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 39 of 310 (Paragraph 21 of the notification form at page 22 (Volume 1) of the

Convenience Compilation). (iv) FRL was identified as a party to the

notified combination and the only Material Entity. (Table 1 @ page 6

(Vol 1) of Convenience Compilation; Paragraph 37 of the response to the

First RFI @ page 679 (Vol 3) of Convenience Compilation). (v) A copy

of the FRL SHA was provided and all inter-connected rights arising from

the FRL SHA, including in relation to FRL (and its retail assets) were

disclosed in the table of rights produced in the main notification form as

well as the subsequent submissions." 39. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' submits that the

`impugned order' of the `1st Respondent/CCI' fails to exhibit which

material particulars were suppressed/not disclosed by the Appellant in

the `Notification', which would otherwise have, even `ex facie' changed

the outcome of `1st Respondent's Competitive Assessment', in the teeth

of information it now claims to have, since the contents of email dated

19.07.2019 (internal document relevant to the notified transaction) stood

disclosed in the `Notification' including (a) the structure of the

transaction; (b) the amount and type of investment; (c) the board

composition (d) the protective rights beg acquired by the Appellant (e)

the restriction in relation to the transfer of shares of FCPL (f) the

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 40 of 310 restriction in relation to the transfer of the Retail Assets of FRL (g) the

Call option (h) the exit rights (i) the proposal to enter into commercial

agreements contemporaneous with the investment, and (j) the advantages

of the commercial agreements, were disclosed in the `Notification'. 40. According to the `Appellant', in response to query 6.7 Form I, it

was expressly mentioned that `the Proposed Combination' pertains to the

overall `Retail Market' in India and the applicable `legal framework'

governing `Foreign Investment' in the `Retail Sector' was also disclosed. 41. It is represented on behalf of the `Appellant' that in the main

`Notification Form' that "neither `FCRPL' nor `FCL' is engaged in

`business activity' relating to the Indian Market". Moreover, it was

expressly stated that `FRL' was the `Flagship retail entity of the Promoter

Group'. Apart from that, details of the `Appellant's Affiliates' engaged

in Business Activity in India were provided and details of `Portfolio

Companies' and the `Subsidiaries' of these `Portfolio Companies' which

were engaged in the `Retail Business' , such as (Shopper's Stop, More

Retail Limited, Cloudtail and Appario) also, were furnished. 42. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' takes a plea that it was

submitted that the `Acquirer' and target `Affiliates' `undertake

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 41 of 310 overlapping business activities in the Indian Retail Market'. Furthermore, `the only plausible relevant market in relation to the

Proposed Combination is the overall retail market in India'. Also that, it

was mentioned that `FRL' was a registered `Seller' on the Online Market

Place', operated by the `Appellant's Affiliate', including under the

`Prime Now Program' which permitted the customers to get products

delivered from the local Kirana Stores or Neighbourhood Stores

(including Big Bazaar Stores of FRL) within two hours of placing the

order or at the preschedule time. 43. The contention of the `Appellant' is that the details of all existing

and contemplated Commercial Arrangements between the Appellant's

`Affiliates and `FRL Affiliates', were disclosed in response to the query

6.5 of the `Form I' and copies of all the five `Business Commercial

Agreements' were provided. Besides this, the details of the `rights'

accruing to the `Appellant's `Affiliates' under the `Business Commercial

Agreements' were disclosed along with the rationale behind these rights,

and the justification for the exclusivity covenants contained in the

`Business Commercial Agreements' were also furnished. Continuing

further, the `Competitive Assessment' pertaining to the `Business

Commercial Agreements' was also presented as part of the `Notification

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 42 of 310 Form' and therefore, all information relating to the `Business

Commercial Agreements' which was relevant for the`1st Respondent

assessment of the notified was furnished in the `Notification'. 44. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' comes out with an

argument it was expressly mentioned that `FCPL' was not engaged in

any `Business Activities' in the `Retail Market'. In fact, the combined

and incremental shares of the `Appellant's Affiliates' (`ASSPL') and

(`ARIPL') and (`FRL') including its subsidiaries were provided in regard

to the `overall Indian Market' as well as within the `Organized Segment'

and in each of the overlapping product Categories. 45. It is represented on behalf of the `Appellant' that the details of

`Commercial Agreements' between the `Appellant's Affiliates' and

`FRL' and / or its `Affiliates' Viz. Future Consumer Limited and Future

Life Styled and Fashions Limited were furnished. Besides these, it was

also submitted that the `Business Commercial Agreements' were

unlikely to cause any `AAEC' as (a) sales made by Future Lifestyle and

FRL through third party online channels was less than one percent (< 1%)

in FY 2019 (b) the sales made through the online channel constituted less

than one percent (<1%) of Future Consumer's total revenue in FY 2019

and (c) wide availability of substitutes across various substitutable

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 43 of 310 distribution channels (for instance, Maggi is available in local Kirana

Stores, large format supermarkets such as Big Bazar, Reliance Fresh and

online marketplaces such as Amazon, Flipkart, Big Basket. Blinkit, Insta

Mart by Swiggy). Therefore, it is pointed out on behalf of the Appellant

that the `Competitive Assessment', presented to the `1st Respondent/CCI'

in the `Notification' was carried out resting on an assumption of

`Complete Integration' between the `Appellant's Affiliates' and the `FRL

and its Subsidiaries'. 46. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' contends that it was

evident from the queries posed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' in the `RFIs'

dated 09.10.2019, 24.10.2019 (queries 2.8, 2.18, 2.21, 2.22 and 2.25) of

the `1st RFI (vide page 648-650 of Vol 3 of Convenience Compilation)

and (queries 2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 2.6, 2.9 and 2.10 of `2nd RFI (vide page 721 of

Vol 3 of convenience Compilation)' as well as Part VI of Form I, read

with notes to Form I that the `1st Respondent/CCI' that the Commission

had proceeded on the assumption of `Complete Integration' between the

`Appellant' and the target group irrespective of the immediate parties to

the Combination. 47. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' submits that the

`impugned order' of the `1st Respondent/CCI', is `untenable and bad in

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 44 of 310 Law' because of the fact that it is passed in the absence of a `Judicial

Member', in complete disregard to the observations made by the

`Hon'ble Supreme Court India in State of Gujarat V Utility Users

Welfare Association, 2018 (6) SCC 21, as relied upon by the Hon'ble

High Court of Delhi in the matter of `Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited

and Another V Competition Commission of India and Others, reported

in 2019, (SCC Online Del 8032). In this regard, it is brought to the notice

of this `Tribunal' that the said `Judgment' was not stayed by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court inspite of an `Appeal' preferred by the `Union of India

and the 1st Respondent / CCI', which among other things, also prayed for

an interim relief of staying the operation of the direction pertaining to the

appointment of a `Judicial Member'. 48. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' contends that the `issue'

of whether the `1st Respondent/CCI' actually assessed notified

combination in the context of `FRL' being a Coupons Issuer' or as a

player in the `Indian Retail Market', can be decided on the basis of report

prepared by the `1st Respondent/CCI' case Team which was presented to

the `Members of the 1st Respondent/CCI'. 49. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' points out that the `1 st

Respondent/CCI's stated position is that it was robbed of its jurisdiction

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 45 of 310 to conduct an `AAEC analysis' because the `disclosures' made by the

`Appellant' were accompanied by `Caveats'. 50. According to the `Appellant', the `1st Respondent/CCI' had argued

that though information pertaining to `FRL' was provided, it was

submitted with a `Caveat' that the `Appellant' was ``not acquiring any

indirect shareholding or control over `FRL''. Further, it was stated that

`FCPL' was an Indian owned and controlled company and the `IOCC'

Structure was disclosed to the `1st Respondent/CCI' and as per the terms

of `FDI Policy' any downstream investment made by an Indian Company

which had received `Foreign Investment' but is owned and controlled by

`Resident Indian Citizens (such as `FCPL) as not considered while

calculating indirect `Foreign Investment'. As such, an Indian owned and

controlled company' structure, in the `eye of law' does not constitute

and an `Indirect Foreign Shareholding' in the downstream entity as long

as the recipient of the `Foreign Investment' (which is `FCPL' in the

instant case), is owned and controlled by `Resident Indian Citizens. In

as much as the `Appellant' does not exercise any control over `FCPL', it

cannot be said to exercise control over `FRL'. In fact, this is the position

prevailing under the `FDI Policy', `NDI rules', and they are binding on

the `CCI',

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 46 of 310 51. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' submits that the

characterization of the rights as `Investor Protection Rights' is

appropriate and this was in accordance with `FCPL SHA' which itself

characterized some of these rights as `Investor Protective' matters (vide

Section 8 read with Schedule IX of `FCPL SHA' (Vol I Page 179 of

Convenience Compilation). Moreover the `FCPL SHA' makes it clear

that the `Appellant' would not control the affairs of either `FCPL' or

`FRL' (vide Clause 10.1, 16.1 in regard to `FCPL' and Clause 15.17 in

relation to `FRL' (vide Vol I pages 185, 209 and 210). In fact, the

`Appellant' does not exercise control over the day-to-day operations of

`FCPL' and therefore, cannot be said to have acquired control over

`FCPL' (or) by `extension of `FRL'. 52. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' contends that Section 26

of the `FCPL SHA' further states that the `Appellant' shall not be deemed

to be a `Promoter' of `FCPL' or `FRL' until the `Call Option' is

exercised. With specific reference to the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition

of Shares and takeover (Regulations), which defines a `Promoter' with

reference to SEBI (issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements

(Regulations) , wherein a `Promoter' is defined as `shall include a person'

... (2) control over the affairs directly or indirectly whether as a

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 47 of 310 shareholder or director or otherwise' and the term `Control' is defined as

`Control includes the right to a point majority of the Directors or to

control the Management or Policy decisions exercisable by a person or

persons acting individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including

by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders'

agreement or voting agreements or in any other manner. This is the

widest definition of `Control' which is echoed in the explanation (b) to Section 5 of the Competition Act, 2002, which defines `Control'. 53. The contention of the `Appellant' is that until the `Call option' is

exercised by the `Appellant' it cannot be said the Appellant has acquired

Control over `FCPL' or `FRL'. Indeed, the `Call option', was negotiated

so that the `Appellant may have a chance to acquire control in future, if

and when the `Indian Law' permit the same and such an exercise of the

`Call option' will be the subject matter of a future combination and

further that there was a lockin period of 3 years from the effective date

which would lapse on 24.12.2022 and hence, the question of any

`control' was rendered an ineffectual one. 54. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' points out that there was

no `caveat' in the submissions made in `Notification' pertaining to the

`Business Commercial Agreements' and per contra, there was an

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 48 of 310 endorsement that the `1st Respondent/CCI', is required to analyse the

`Business Commercial Agreements' in its `Competitive Assessment'

because they are between the parties to the `Notified Combination' and

their `Affiliates'. 55. Furthermore, the `Form I' (especially with reference to queries

6.5.5 and 6.6) requires the `1st Respondent/CCI' to consider the

cumulative impact of the `BCAs' together with the `Notified

Combination', in its `Competitive Assessment', whether or not the

`BCAs' are part of the `Notified Combination' and this is because of the

fact that the `BCAs' are between the parties to the `Notified

Combination' and their `Affiliate Entities'. As such, it is not correct to

suggest that the `1st Respondent/CCI' would or would not analyse the

`BCAs' depending on whether or not they are stated to be part of the

`Notified Combination'. In fact, the `Appellant' had mentioned in the

main `Notification' that the `BCAs' are being disclosed `with a view to

assist the `Commission' in its assessment of the `Proposed Combination'. 56. In short, the relevant facts the `1st Respondent/CCI' should have

considered and considered are the rights accruing to the `Appellant's

Affiliates' under these `BCAs' which stood disclosed. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 49 of 310 57. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' submits that the `1st

Respondent/CCI's own practice is that it necessarily disregards `caveats'

or `qualified submissions' made by the parties while carrying out

`Competitive Assessment' of a `Notified Combination'. 58. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' contends that there is `No

Fraud' in the present case and in reality, the `Finding of Fraud'

necessarily requires a decision that the information/documents

purportedly `suppressed/undisclosed' as a `material impact' on the

assessment of the Combination. In this connection, the Learned Counsel

for the `Appellant' cites the decision of the `Hon'ble Supreme Court in

the matter of `Electrosteel Castings Limited V UV Asset Reconstruction,

reported in 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1132, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held that `as per the settled proposition of law, mere mentioning

and using the word `Fraud'/`Fraudulent' without any material particulars,

would not amount to pleading of `Fraud'. 59. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' takes a plea that the

`impugned order' passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' does not disclose

what / which `material' particular(s) were undisclosed/suppressed by the

`Appellant in the `Notification'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 50 of 310 60. In regard to the email dated 19.07.2019, it is represented on behalf

of the `Appellant' the Appellant was under the `Bonafide Belief' that the

contents of this email should disclose in the `Notification', and that the

said email had contained a summary of the agreements that the

`Appellant' proposed to execute and copies of these agreements were

provided along with the `Notification', and as such, `no case of fraud'

can ever be said to be made out merely on account of failure to disclose

an `information / document' that was purportedly required to be

disclosed. 61. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' adverts to the decision of

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of `Bhaurao Dagdu Paralkar V

State of Maharashtra and Others, reported in 2005, 7 SCC 605, the aspect

of `fraud' in public Law and `fraud' in private Law was differentiated an

it was held at Paragraph 12 that (i) fraud in relation to a statute must be a

colourable transaction to evade the provisions of a statute; (ii) it must

result in exercise of jurisdiction which otherwise would not have been

exercised; and (iii) the non-disclosure of a fact not required by a statute

to be disclosed would not amount to fraud. 62. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' contends that the internal

emails dated back to 2018 are not relevant as they contemplated a

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 51 of 310 different Investment Structure Viz. a direct investment in `FRL' under

the `Foreign Portfolio Investment Route, which was not ultimately

undertaken in the transaction notified to the `1st Respondent/CCI'. 63. Yet another plead of the Appellant's side is that the email dated

04.04.2019, was an email exchanged between the Learned Counsel for

the `Appellant' and the Future Group and there is no requirement under

query 8.8 (or any other part of the Form I to disclose legally `privileged

communication' between the Learned Counsels of the parties to a

`Combination'. 64. Furthermore, it is the stand of the `Appellant' there is no

requirement under Form I of the Competition Act, 2002, to disclose the

factors considered in deciding the sum of consideration paid by the

`Acquirer'. However, it was disclosed by the `Appellant' FCPL's

underlying shareholding in `FRL', was also considered by the

`Appellant' in deciding the value of the `Proposed Investment'. 65. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' submits that there was

`no requirement' to disclose `any future intent' of the `Appellant' to

acquire a foot-in-the-door in `Retail Sector', as it was not the subject

matter of the present `Combination'. In fact, the expression `foot-in-the- Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 52 of 310 door' reflected in the emails/internal documents refers to the `Call

option' which provides the Appellant an `Option' in the future (not an

obligation) to become the single largest Shareholder in `FRL', only when

the applicable `FDI Norms' allow. 66. The emphatic stand of the Appellant is that the `email' dated

19.07.2019 acknowledges that the `Appellant' would have exercised

control over the affairs of `FRL' only upon the exercise of the `Call

option' which, in turn, was subject to several conditions including the

occurrence of the change in Law event. 67. In this regard, the Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' refers to a

decision in Reliance/Bharti AXA (vide Combination Registration No.C- 2011/0/1), wherein AXA had an `Option' to acquired up to 24% shares

of Bharti AXA Life Insurance and Bharti AXA General Insurance and

when FDI Regulations permit, the 1st Respondent/CCI itself had

observed that `such an acquisition by AXA at a later date is not part of

the present determination and shall be dealt accordingly as per the

applicable laws at that time'. Also that, it was mentioned expressly in the

`Notification' that any `Acquisition of Shares' in `FRL' in future, would

be notified to the `1st Respondent/CCI' in the later `Notification'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 53 of 310 68. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' puts forward an argument

that the bundle of rights acquired by the `Appellant' has part of the

notified transaction was reviewed by `EA' and `AT' and none had

concluded that these rights amount to control over the affairs of `FRL'. In this connection, it is represented by the `Appellant' that `EA' order

was upheld by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India as per Section 17 of

the ` Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 , through an order dated

06.08.2021. As a matter of fact, the Arbitration Tribunal's order, is an

`order of court', as per Section 17 of the ` Arbitration and Conciliation

Act, 1996 '. As such, the aspect of whether or not the bundle of rights

accruing to the `Appellant' amounted to controlling the affairs of `FRL'

was the legal submission made by the `Appellant' which `per se' cannot

amount to `Misrepresentation of Fact' or `Fraud'. 69. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' points out that the

`Appellant' had highlighted the `synergies' envisaged in regard to the

payments market in response to the specific query 2.13 (c) of the RFI

dated 09.10.2019, which referred to a statement by Mr. Kishore Biyani

(Promoter of FCPL and FRL), which referred to the `payments

ecosystem'. However, the `1st Respondent/CCI' had relied on the

response of the `Appellant' in a out of context manner to allege that when

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 54 of 310 asked as to how the `Appellant' envisaged a part of the `Retail

Ecosystem', the `Appellant' gave misleading explanations about the

business of `FCPL' and other `Amazon Portfolio Companies' in the

payments market. 70. The Learned Counsel for the ` Appellant' contends that the `1st

Respondent/CCI' had failed to consider that `FRL SHA' was disclosed

in the 1st stage of the main `Notification' Form as constituting the

background to the `Appellant's Investment'. 71. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' submits that the `1st

Respondent/CCI' had failed to consider that Section 43A of the

Competition Act, 2002, is applicable where a party fails to notify a

transaction (Viz., a merger, amalgamation or acquisition) in terms of Section 2 (a) that constitute a `combination' as per Section 5 of the

Competition Act, 2002. In short, what is required to be notified to the `1st

Respondent/CCI' is the transaction which constitutes a `combination'

and not an argument executed in furtherance of the said transaction, per

se. In any event, the `Appellant' had provided copies of `FRL SHA', the

five `BCAs' to the `1st Respondent/CCI' along with the `Notification'

and disclosed all information pertaining to the rights accruing to the

`Appellant' under the `FRL SHA' as well as `BCAs' and urged the

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 55 of 310 `Commission' to assess the notified combination in the light of such

disclosures. In any case, neither the `FRL SHA' nor the `BCAs' were

given effect to before the receipt of `1st Respondent/CCI's approval. 72. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant points out that the Competition Act 2002 does not contemplate any power for the

`Revocation Of Approval' granted by the `1st Respondent/CCI' as per Section 31 (1) of the Competition Act, 2002. Further, it is projected on

the side of the `Appellant' that in the instant case, there is no

`Misstatement of False Information' or `Misrepresentation' that was

material to the `1st Respondent/CCI's assessment of the `Notified

Combination'. 73. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' urges that the `residuary

powers' conferred upon the `1st Respondent/CCI's, as per Section 45 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002, were not available to the Commission, in

the instant case. In this regard, the Learned Counsel for the `Appellant'

refers to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sukhdev Singh V

Bhagatram Sardar Singh, reported in 1975 1 SCC, at page 421, Spl pages

433, 438 and 439, wherein at paragraph 15 and 33, it is observed as under: This Court has repeatedly observed that whenever a man's rights
 are affected by decision taken under statutory powers, the Court
 would presume the existence of a duty to observe the rules of
 natural justice and compliance with rules and regulations imposed
 by statute." 74. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant contends that the `Power

of Recall', `Review' or `Revocation' are `Prescriptive Functions', to be

specified by the `Parliament' in its `Primary Legislation' and further that

there is no `Power of Revocation', contemplated under the `Statute'. 75. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' submits that in `Law',

the `General Provisions' are not to be used where a specific provision

was enacted with a specific purpose in mind, as per decision of the

`Hon'ble Supreme Court' in J K Cotton Spinning Weaving Mills V State

of Uttar Pradesh, reported in (961) 3 SCR 185, at paragraphs 8 and 9,

wherein it is observed as under: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 58 of 310 9. There will be complete harmony however if we hold instead that
 Clause 5(a) will apply in all other cases of proposed dismissal or
 discharge except where an inquiry is pending within the meaning
 of Clause 23. We reach the same result by applying another well
 known rule of construction that general provisions yield to special
 provisions. The learned Attorney-General seemed to suggest that
 while this rule of construction is applicable to resolve the conflict
 between the general provision in one Act and the special provision
 in another Act, the rule cannot apply in resolving a conflict
 between general and special provisions in the same legislative
 instrument. This suggestion does not find support in either
 principle or authority. The rule that general provisions should
 yield to specific provisions is not an arbitrary principle made by
 lawyers and judges but springs from the common understanding of
 men and women that when the same person gives two directions
 one covering a large number of matters in general and another to
 only some of them his intention is that these latter directions
 should prevail as regards these while as regards all the rest the
 earlier direction should have effect. In Pretty v. Solly (quoted in
 Craies on Statute Law at p.m. 206, 6th Edition) Romilly, M.R.
 mentioned the rule thus: "The rule is, that whenever there is a
 particular enactment and a general enactment in the same statute
 and the latter, taken in its most comprehensive sense, would
 overrule the former, the particular enactment must be operative,
 and the general enactment must be taken to affect only the other
 parts of the statute to which it may properly apply". The rule has
 been applied as between different provisions of the same statute in
 numerous cases some of which only need be mentioned: De Winton
 v. Brecon (28 LJ Ch 598), Churchill v. Crease (5 Bing 177), United
 States v. Chase (135 US 255) and Carroll v. Greenwich Ins. CO.
 (199 US 401)." In effect, the plea of the `Appellant' is that Section 45 of the
Competition Act, 2002, does not provide for `Revocation of Approvals'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 59 of 310 76. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' fervently advances an

argument that there is no power to keep the `Approval Order' passed by

the `1st Respondent/CCI' in abeyance, on account of the violation of Section 43 A of the Competition Act, 2002. That apart, an `order' to keep

an `Approval' in `Abeyance' and `Reassess' the `Combination' after

receipt of `Notice' from the `Appellant' in Form II is totally contrary to

the `Rule of ex ante Analysis' and it is barred by the one year period of

limitation, as per proviso to Section 20(1) of the Competition Act, 2002,

as the `FCPL SHA' came into effect on 19.12.2019 (over two years'

before). 77. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' contends that there is no

power enjoined up on the `1st Respondent/CCI's to direct the filing of

Form II as combined share of parties was less than 1%. In this connection,

the Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' comes out with a stand that

between the Financial Year 2016 to 2017, Financial Year 2018 to 2019,

the combined share of the `Appellant's Affiliates ASSPL and FRL' in the

overall Indian retail market was less than 1%. 78. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' submits that the `Power

to Approve' does not include the `Incidental Power' to `Revoke' and

refers to the decision of the `Hon'ble Supreme Court' in Indian National

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 60 of 310 Congress (I) V Institute of Social Welfare, reported in 2002 5 SCC, page

685, wherein at paragraphs 39 to 41, it is observed as follows: laws etc. The order which can be modified or rescinded on the
 application of Section 21 has to be either executive or legislative
 in nature. But the order which the Commission is required to pass
 under Section 29A is neither a legislative nor an executive order
 but is a quasi-judicial order. We have already examined this
 aspect of the matter in the foregoing paragraph and held that the
 functions exercisable by the Commission under Section 29A is

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 61 of 310 essentially a quasi-judicial in nature and order passed thereunder
 is a quasi-judicial order. In that view of the matter, the provisions
 of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act cannot be invoked to
 confer powers of de-registration/cancellation of registration after
 enquiry by the Election Commission. We, therefore, hold
 that Section 21 of the General Clauses Act has no application
 where a statutory authority is required to act quasi-judicially. 41. It may be noted that the Parliament deliberately omitted to vest
 the Election Commission of India with the power to de-register a
 political party for non-compliance with the conditions for the
 grant of such registration. This may be for the reason that under
 the Constitution the Election Commission of India is required to
 function independently and ensure free and fair elections. An
 enquiry into non-compliance with the conditions for the grant of
 registration might involve the Commission in matters of a political
 nature and could mean monitoring by the Commission of the
 political activities, programmes and ideologies of political parties.
 This position gets strengthened by the fact that on 30th June, 1994
 the Representation of the People (Second Amendment) Bill, 1994
 was introduced in the Lok Sabha proposing to introduce Section
 29-B whereunder a complaint to be made to the High Court within
 whose jurisdiction the main office of a political party is situated
 for cancelling the registration of the party on the ground that it
 bears a religious name or that its memorandum or rules and
 regulations no longer conforming the provisions of Section 29-
 A (5) or that the activities are not in accordance with the said
 memorandum or rules and regulations. However, this bill lapsed
 on the dissolution of the Lok Sabha in 1996, (See p. 507 of "How
 India Votes : Election Laws, Practice and Procedure" by V.S.
 Rama Devi and S.K. Mendiratta)." 79. The Learned for the `Appellant' submits that the `Approval Order'

(under section 31 (1) of the Competition Act, 2002), passed by the `1 st

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 62 of 310 Respondent/CCI' is a `Quasi-judicial Order', as it requires the `1st

Respondent/CCI' to form an `opinion' whether a `notified Combination'

has or is likely to have any `AAEC' in the relevant market based on

consideration of numerous factors mentioned in Section 20 (4) of the

Competition Act, 2002. 80. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' contends that the

`Penalty' of INR 200 Crores imposed in the `impugned order' is without

any basis or justification and under the 1st Respondent/CCI had imposed

a maximum penalty of INR 5 Crores in approximately 40 cases for

`Breach of Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002', during the past

eleven years period. 81. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' refers to the decision of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Excel Crop Care V Union of India and

Ors., reported in (2017) 8 SCC, page 47, Spl. pages 113 and 114, wherein

at paragraph 109, it is observed as under: Levy of penalty is not only discretionary in nature but such
 discretion is required to be exercised on the part of the
 Assessing Officer keeping the relevant factors in mind. Some
 of those factors apart from being inherent in the nature of
 penalty proceedings as has been noticed in some of the
 decisions of this court, inheres on the face of the statutory
 provisions. Penalty proceedings are not to be initiated, as
 has been noticed by the Wanchoo Committee, only to harass
 the assesse. The approach of the Assessing Officer in this
 behalf must be fair and objective." (emphasis supplied) 82. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' raises an argument that

the `1st Respondent/CCI' had failed to take into account about the aspect

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 64 of 310 that `FRL SHA' or `BCAs' came in to effect before the `Approval Order'

and the `Investment' made by the `Appellant' had already flown down to

`FRL' and `Appellant, the `Appellant' is actually a party suffering

monetary damages due to the `Contractual Breaches' by the `Future

Group'. Appellant's Decisions: 83. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant relies on the decision of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of NCT of Delhi and another V

Sanjeev Alias Bittoo (2005) 5 SCC at page 181 at Spl. page 190, wherein

at paragraph 15, it is observed as under: Administrative action is stated to be referable to broad area of
 Governmental activities in which the repositories of power may
 exercise every class of statutory function of executive, quasi-
 legislative and quasi-judicial nature. It is trite law that exercise of
 power, whether legislative or administrative, will be set aside if
 there is manifest error in the exercise of such power or the exercise
 of the power is manifestly arbitrary (See State of U.P. and Ors. v.
 Renusagar Power Co. and Ors. , AIR (1988) SC 1737. At one time,
 the traditional view in England was that the executive was not
 answerable where its action was attributable to the exercise of
 prerogative power. Professor De Smith in his classical work
 "Judicial Review of Administrative Action" 4th Edition at pages
 285-287 states the legal position in his own terse language that the
 relevant principles formulated by the Courts may be broadly

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 65 of 310 summarized as follows. The authority in which discretion is vested
 can be compelled to exercise that discretion, but not to exercise it
 in any particular manner. In general, discretion must be exercised
 only by the authority to which it is committed. That authority must
 genuinely address itself to the matter before it; it must not act
 under the dictates of another body or disable itself from exercising
 discretion in each individual case. In the purported exercise of its
 discretion, it must not do what it has been forbidden to do, nor
 must it do what it has not been authorized to do. It must act in good
 faith, must have regard to all relevant considerations and must not
 be influenced by irrelevant considerations, must not seek to
 promote purposes alien to the letter or to the spirit of the
 legislation that gives it power to act, and must not act arbitrarily
 or capriciously. These several principles can conveniently be
 grouped in two main categories: (i) failure to exercise a discretion,
 and (ii) excess or abuse of discretionary power. The two classes
 are not, however, mutually exclusive. Thus, discretion may be
 improperly fettered because irrelevant considerations have been
 taken into account, and where an authority hands over its
 discretion to another body it acts ultra vires." 84. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant cites the decision of the

Supreme Court in Kishore Samrite V State of Uttar Pradesh (2013), 2

SCC, Page 398, at Spl. pgs: 421 and 422, wherein at paragraph 32 to 32.8,

it is observed as under: 85. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant adverts to the decision of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Amar Singh V Union of India, reported in

(2011) (7) SCC, Page 69, at Spl. pages 87 to 89, wherein at paragraphs

53 to 61, it is observed as under: Government of Karnataka - (1991) 3 SCC 261, S.P.
 Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath ( 1994) 1 SCC 1, A.V. Papayya
 Sastry v. Government of A.P. - (2007) 4 SCC 221, Prestige Lights
 Limited v. SBI - ( 2007) 8 SCC 449, Sunil Poddar v. Union Bank
 of India - (2008) 2 SCC 326, K.D.Sharma v. SAIL - ( 2008) 12 SCC
 481, G. Jayashree v. Bhagwandas S. Patel (2009) 3 SCC 141,
 Dalip Singh v. State of U.P. (2010) 2 SCC 114. 60. In the last noted case of Dalip Singh (supra), this Court has
 given this concept a new dimension which has a far reaching
 effect. We, therefore, repeat those principles here again: violence), Mahavir, Gautam Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi
 guided the people to ingrain these values in their daily life.
 Truth constituted an integral part of the justice-delivery
 system which was in vogue in the pre-independence era and
 the people used to feel proud to tell truth in the courts
 irrespective of the consequences. However, post-
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 70 of 310 independence period has seen drastic changes in our value
 system. The materialism has overshadowed the old ethos
 and the quest for personal gain has become so intense that
 those involved in litigation do not hesitate to take shelter of
 falsehood, misrepresentation and suppression of facts in the
 court proceedings. (b) In the last 40 years, a new creed of litigants has cropped
 up. Those who belong to this creed do not have any respect
 for truth. They shamelessly resort to falsehood and
 unethical means for achieving their goals. In order to meet
 the challenge posed by this new creed of litigants, the courts
 have, from time to time, evolved new rules and it is now well
 established that a litigant, who attempts to pollute the
 stream of justice or who touches the pure fountain of justice
 with tainted hands, is not entitled to any relief, interim or
 final." However, this Court is constrained to observe that those principles
 are honoured more in breach than in their observance. 61. Following these principles, this Court has no hesitation in
 holding that the instant writ petition is an attempt by the petitioner
 to mislead the Court on the basis of frivolous allegations and by
 suppression of material facts as pointed out and discussed above.
 In view of such incorrect presentation of facts, this court had
 issued notice and also subsequently passed the injunction order
 which is still continuing." 86. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant seeks in aid of the decision

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dalip Singh V State of Uttar Pradesh,

reported in (2010) 2 SCC, Page 114 at Spl. pgs: 116 and 117, wherein it

is observed as under: Those who belong to this creed do not have any respect for truth.
 They shamelessly resort to falsehood and unethical means for
 achieving their goals. In order to meet the challenge posed by this
 new creed of litigants, the courts have, from time to time, evolved
 new rules and it is now well established that a litigant, who
 attempts to pollute the stream of justice or who touches the pure
 fountain of justice with tainted hands, is not entitled to any relief,
 interim or final." 87. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant refers to the decision of

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Union of India and Ors. V Cipla Ltd. and Ors. (2007) 5 SCC, wherein at paragraph 150, it is observed as under: 88. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant refers to the decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Commissioner of Sales Tax, Uttar Pradesh V

R.P. Dixit Saghidar, (2001) 9 SCC Page 324, Spl. pg: 325, wherein at

paragraph 5, it is observed as under: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 73 of 310 89. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' refers to the decision of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in P. Malaichami V Andi Ambalam and

Others, reported in (1972) 2 SCC, page 170 at Spl. pg: 188, wherein at

paragraph 31, it is observed as under: 90. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' cites a decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Pancham Chand and Others V State of

Himachal Pradesh (2008) 7 SCC, Page 117 at Spl. pg: 124, wherein at

paragraph 19, it is observed as under: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 74 of 310 91. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' adverts to the decision of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in National Securities Depository Limited V

Securities and Exchange Board of India, reported in (2017) 5 SCC at page

517, Spl. pgs: 523 and 528: wherein at paragraph 8, 9 and 21, it is

observed as under: judicial functions being exercised by such officers. Under sub-
 section (3) of Section 15-T, every appeal is to be filed within a
 period of 45 days from the date on which a copy of the order made
 by the Board or the adjudicating officer, as the case may be, is
 received by him. Generally administrative orders and legislative
 regulations made by the Board are never received personally by
 "the person aggrieved". This is another pointer to the fact that the
 order spoken of in sub-section (1) of Section 15-T is only a quasi-
 judicial order. Also, it is important to note under sub-section (4)

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 75 of 310 that the Appellate Tribunal may ultimately pass orders confirming,
 modifying or setting aside the order appealed against. In the
 Clariant judgment referred to hereinabove, paragraph 74 clearly
 states that: (SCC p. 550) 74."The jurisdiction of the appellate authority under the Act
 is not in any way fettered by the statute and thus, it exercises
 all the jurisdiction as that of the Board". [emphasis supplied]

 This being the case, it is clear that the appeal being a continuation
 of the proceeding before the Board, the proceeding can only be
 quasi-judicial in nature." 21. A judgment of this Court dealing with the very Act we are
 dealing with is reported as Clariant International Ltd. v. SEBI -
 (2004) 8 SCC 524. In our view certain observations made in this
 judgment almost conclude the matters raised in this appeal. While
 discussing the effect of the Board being an expert body, this Court
 in paragraph 71 stated: (SCC p. 549)

 "71.The Board is indisputably an expert body. But when it
 exercises its quasi-judicial functions, its decisions are
 subject to appeal. The Appellate Tribunal is also an expert
 Tribunal." (emphasis supplied)

In para 77 this Court further went on to state: (SCC p. 550)

 "The Board exercises its legislative power by making regulations,
 executive power by administering the regulations framed by it and
 taking action against any entity violating these regulations and
 judicial power by adjudicating disputes in the implementation
 thereof. The only check upon exercise of such wide-ranging
 powers is that it must comply with the Constitution and the Act . In

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 76 of 310 that view of the matter, where an expert Tribunal has been
 constituted, the scrutiny at its end must be held to be of wide
 import. The Tribunal, another expert body, must, thus, be allowed
 to exercise its own jurisdiction conferred on it by the statute
 without any limitation." 92. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' refers to the decision of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Clariant International V Securities and

Exchange Board of India, reported in (2004) 8 SCC at page 524, Spl. pg: Appellant's Citations (under ` The Competition Act, 2002 ') : 93. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant cites a decision of Hon'ble

Supreme Court in SCM Solifert Ltd. and Anr. V Competition

Commission of India, (2018) 6 SCC, at Spl. page 637, wherein at

paragraph 20, it is observed as under: 94. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant points out the order dated

24.06.2021 passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' under Section 31 (1) of

the Competition Act, 2002 (vide Combination, Registration No. C- 2020/06/747), in the matter of Jaadhu Holdings LLC (Acquirer) / Jio

Platforms Limited (Target), wherein at paragraphs, 4, 5 and 9, it is

observed as under: RJIO is a licensed telecommunication operator, providing mobile
 telephony services to users across India. 9. Based on the submissions of Jaadhu, the Commission observes
 that the activities of the Facebook group and Jio Platforms are
 similar in consumer communication applications and
 advertisement services. Further, the social interaction
 applications of Facebook group, particularly WhatsApp chat/
 instant messaging application, and the telecommunication
 services offered by RJIO, a wholly owned subsidiary of Jio
 Platforms, are complementary to each other." and submits that the `1st Respondent/CCI' necessarily had considered the
`Business' of the group `Entities' in the `Competitive Assessment'. 95. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant cites the `Order' dated

02.09.2014, passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' (u/n Section 31 (1) of

the Competition Act, 2002) vide Combination Registration No.

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 79 of 310 C-2014/06/184 in Dunearn Investments (Mauritius) Pte. (``Dunearn" or

``Acquirer") / Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited (Target), wherein at

paragraphs 2, 4 and 8, it is observed as under: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 80 of 310 96. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' adverts to the order dated

22.02.2021, passed by the `1st Respondent / CCI' (u/n Section 31 (1) of

the Competition Act, 2002) vide (Combination Registration No.C- 2021/01/805) in CDPQ Private Equity Asia Pte. Ltd. (Acquirer) / API

Holdings Pte. Ltd. (Target), wherein at paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8, it is

observed as under: CDPQ is a Canadian institutional fund, which manages and serves
 depositors which comprises public and private pension and
 insurance funds in Quebec. In India, the Acquirer is present
 through its subsidiaries, viz. CDPQ India Private Limited, Ivanhoe
 Cambridge Investment Advisory (India) Private Limited and SITQ
 India Private Limited. 5. CDPQ is also present in India through its investments in various
 portfolio companies including, inter alia, Piramal Enterprises
 Limited (which is present in the pharmaceutical segment) ('PEL')

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 81 of 310 and TVS Supply Chain Solutions Limited (which is engaged in the
 business of providing logistics services) ('TVS'). 7. Based on the submissions, the Commission noted that Target
 exhibits horizontal overlaps with CDPQ's portfolio companies,
 namely PEL and TVS in the segment of manufacture of
 pharmaceuticals and provision of logistics services, respectively.
 The Commission decided to leave the delineation of the relevant
 markets open as it was observed that the Proposed Combination
 is not likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition
 in any of the relevant markets. As per the information submitted,
 the presence of the Target is minimal in these segments. 8. Similarly, based on the submission of the Acquirer, the
 Commission noted that there are various vertical relationships,
 existing and potential, between the portfolio companies of CDPQ
 and the Target. However, the presence of the Target in these
 segments is minimal and accordingly, it appears that the Parties
 do not have any ability or incentive to foreclose competition." 97. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' adverts to the `Order'

dated 22.03.2019, passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' (u/n Section 31(1) of the Competition Act, 2002) in Deli CMF Pte. Limited (Acquirer) /

Delhivery Private Limited (Target) (vide Combination Registration

No.C-2019/02/640), wherein at paragraphs 4, 6, 7 and 9, it is observed as

under: It has been further submitted that the Acquirer is filing the notice
 by way of abundant caution only. However, as per the submissions
 of the Acquirer, the management, control and operation of CMF
 including the authority to determine its policy, investment and
 other activities, are vested exclusively with FCM, which is a
 subsidiary of Fosun International Ltd. (FIL). Thus, FCM has the
 ability to control the affairs of CMF. Accordingly, the assets and
 liabilities of FIL are also required to be considered for the purpose
 of financial thresholds prescribed under Section 5 of the Act.
 Taking into account said financials of FIL, the proposed
 acquisition by the Acquirer qualifies as a combination under Section 5 of the Act. 9. It has been submitted that the Parties to the Proposed
 Combination do not produce/provide similar or identical or
 substitutable products or services either directly or indirectly. It
 has been further submitted that the Parties to the Proposed
 Combination are not engaged in any activity relating to
 production, supply, distribution, storage, sale and service or trade
 in products or provision of services, which is at different stages or

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 83 of 310 level of the production chain. However, one of the companies
 beneficially owned by FIL is seen to have investments in an entity
 that is engaged in leasing of trucks in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and
 Mumbai. This is suggestive of a limited vertical overlap between
 the activities of the Parties and they are not engaged in similar line
 of business." 98. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' refers to the `Order'

dated 30.04.2020, passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' (u/n Section 31(1) of the Competition Act, 2002) in Canary Investments Limited and Link

Investment Trust II (Acquirers) Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited (Target

(vide Combination Registration No.C-2020/04/741), wherein at

paragraphs 2, 3, 9, 10 and 13, it is observed as under: ChrysCapital currently holds less than or equal to 10 percent of

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 84 of 310 the share capital in each of Mankind Pharma Limited (Mankind)
 and Eris Lifesciences Limited (Eris); and less than 20 percent of
 the share capital in each of GVK Biosciences Private Limited
 (GVK) and Curatio Healthcare Private Limited (Curatio). 10. The interest of ChrysCapital in Eris is limited to its
 shareholding. Therefore, Eris has not been considered for
 identification of overlaps between the portfolio of ChrysCapital
 and Intas. However, its interest in GVK, Curatio and Mankind
 include board representation, right to seek information as well as
 the right to veto certain corporate actions including the change in
 capital structure, mergers and acquisitions, commencing new line
 of business and amendment to charter documents (GVK, Curatio
 and Mankind shall be together referred to as Portfolio Entities).
 A holistic appreciation of these rights suggest that ChrysCapital
 enjoys the ability to influence the strategic focus and operations of
 GVK, Mankind and Curatio. By way of the Proposed Combination,
 the Acquirers now propose to acquire minority shareholding in
 Intas along with rights to participate in some of its strategic
 corporate actions. 13. The business of Intas and the Portfolio Entities are similar in
 respect of more than 150 pharmaceutical products. The combined
 market share of the parties is greater than 30% in more than 20
 pharmaceutical products. These products are used to treat
 ailments falling under the categories of (a) alimentary tract and
 metabolism; (b) cardiovascular system; (c) dermatologicals; (d)
 genito-urinary system and sex hormones; (e) musculo-skeletal
 system; (f) nervous system; (g) respiratory system; and (h)
 various." 99. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' cites to the `Order' dated

01.09.2017, passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' (u/n Section 31(1) of the

Competition Act, 2002) in Copper Technology Pte. Ltd. (Acquirer) ANI

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 85 of 310 Technologies Private Limited (Target) (vide Combination Registration

No.C-2017/08/525), wherein at paragraphs 2, 4 and 6, it is observed as

under: 2. ``The proposed combination relates to subscription by CTPL of
 9.57% fully diluted paidup share capital of ANI. In addition,
 CTPL is entitled to nominate a non- executive director on the
 board of ANI. 4. CTPL, a newly incorporated private company in Singapore, is
 an investment holding company. Currently, it does not carry out
 any business activities in India and is a wholly owned subsidiary
 of Aceville Pte. Ltd. ("Aceville"), an entity incorporated in
 Singapore. Tencent Holdings Limited ("Tencent"), a company
 incorporated in the Cayman Island, is the ultimate parent company
 of Aceville. Tencent is inter-alia, engaged in provision of value-
 added services and online advertising services to users in China. 6. The Commission observed that neither Tencent nor its
 subsidiaries are engaged in production, distribution or trading of
 similar or identical or substitutable products as of the main
 activities of ANI in India. However, Tencent group has investment
 in Flipkart through one of its portfolio company, which is inter-
 alia, engaged in the business of issuance of semi-closed prepaid
 instruments (i.e. Mobile Wallets) under the brand name of
 "PhonePe". The Commission noted that PhonePe may be
 substitutable to Ola Money. In this regard, the Commission
 observed that these entities have insignificant presence in the
 activity of mobile wallet in India and accordingly there seems to
 be no competition concerns." Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 86 of 310 100. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' points out to the `Order'

dated 13.06.2016, passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' (u/n Section 31(1) of the Competition Act, 2002) in Marble II Pte. Limited (Acquirer) /

Mphasis Limited (Target) (vide Combination Registration No.C- 2016/04/391), wherein at paragraphs 2, 5, 9, 10 and 11, it is observed as

under: (Hereinafter, EDS Asia, EDS Far East and EDS Netherlands are
 collectively referred to as "Sellers") 5. Marble II, a private limited company incorporated in Singapore,
 is a special purpose vehicle incorporated for the purpose of the
 Proposed Combination. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Marble
 I Pte. Ltd. ("Marble I") and an indirect subsidiary of Blackstone
 Capital Partners (Cayman II) VI L.P. ("BCP VI"), a private
 equity fund managed / advised by affiliates of The Blackstone
 Group L.P. ("Blackstone"). Blackstone listed on the New York
 Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and headquartered in the United
 States, is a global alternative asset manager and provider of
 financial advisory services. 9. The Commission noted that at broader level, activities of the
 parties' overlap in the business of IT and ITeS in India. While, the
 Acquirer, being a special purpose vehicle, is not engaged in any
 business activity, the portfolio companies of Blackstone and the
 Target are engaged in the overlapping activities i.e. IT and ITeS
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 87 of 310 business in India. The Commission further noted that the provision
 of services relating to IT and ITeS can be sub-segmented into the
 provision of Consulting, Implementation Services and ITO
 services in India. However, in the instant case as the market shares
 of the parties are insignificant and there is presence of several
 other players, the market definition may be left open. 10. On the basis of the submissions of the Acquirer, the
 Commission noted that there is insignificant vertical relationship
 between the Target and portfolio companies of Blackstone in
 India. 11. It is observed that the competition assessment of the proposed
 combination for overlapping businesses of namely, (i) Mpahsis
 and the Acquirer, and (ii) Mpahsis and the relevant portfolio
 companies of Blackstone, would relate to the business of IT and
 ITeS in India. It is observed that the combined market share of the
 Target and portfolio companies of Blackstone, post-combination,
 are insignificant regardless of how the market is delineated.
 Further, other players, with a sizeable market share, are present
 in each of the sub-segment of the IT and ITeS business in India." 101. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' adverts to the `Order'

dated 21.05.2014 in Thomas Cook Vs Sterling Holiday Resorts India

Limited (u/n Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002) (vide

Combination Registration No.C-2014/02/153), wherein at paragraphs 8

to 11, it is observed as under: 2012/03/45, C-2012/03/48 and C-2013/05/122), it has been
 argued that mutual interdependence is the relevant test to
 see whether two transactions are part of one composite
 combination. However, the Commission has never held that
 mutual interdependence is the only test to determine a
 composite combination. It is relevant to note sub-regulation
 (4) of Regulation 9 which states that a business transaction
 could be achieved by way of a series of steps or smaller
 individual transactions which are inter-connected or inter-
 dependent on each other. Even in the case bearing Reg. No.
 C-2013/05/122, the Commission regarded different
 steps/transactions as one combination as they were related
 to each other and there was no conclusion that mutual
 interdependence is the only test to determine a composite
 combination. It is observed that considering two different
 transactions as one combination depends on the facts and
 circumstances of each case with due regard to the subject
 matter of the transactions; the business and entities
 involved; simultaneity in negotiation, execution and
 consummation of the transactions; and also, whether it is
 practical and reasonable to isolate and view the
 transactions separately. In the instant case, though
 different, the Market Purchases are inherently related to the
 other transactions (Scheme and other acquisitions) and
 would not have been pursued in the absence of Parties
 envisaging the Scheme and other acquisitions. 9. In terms of sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, any
 person or enterprise, who or which proposes to enter into a
 combination, shall give notice to the Commission disclosing
 the details of the proposed combination within the time
 prescribed therein. Whereas, at the time of giving notice to

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 89 of 310 the Commission, TCISIL had already consummated the
 Market Purchases. Therefore, the Parties have failed to give
 notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. 10. In terms of Section 43A of the Act, if any person or
 enterprise fails to give notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, the Commission shall impose on such
 person or enterprise, a penalty which may extend to one
 percent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is
 higher, of such a combination. 11. Though the penalty under section 43A of the Act may
 extent up to one percent of the total turnover or the assets of
 such a combination whichever is higher, the Commission
 has sufficient discretion to consider the conduct of the
 Parties and the circumstances of the case to arrive at an
 appropriate amount of penalty. In the instant case, the
 Parties consummated the Market Purchases between 10th
 and 12th February 2014 and same was disclosed in the
 notice filed on 14th February 2014. Though the parties have
 made full disclosure of all the transactions and there was no
 effort on their part to conceal information, the Commission
 discovered the violation of the provisions of the Act only
 from the notice given by the Parties. These facts go to
 suggest that the conduct of the Parties was not such that
 attracts severe penalty. Considering the facts and
 circumstances of the case, the Commission considers it
 appropriate to impose a relatively nominal penalty on the
 Parties. Therefore, in exercise of the powers under Section
 43A of the Act, a penalty of INR 1,00,00,000 (Rupees one
 crore) is imposed on the Parties. The parties to the
 combination shall pay the penalty within 60 days from the
 date of receipt of this order." Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 90 of 310 Appellant's Decisions (on `Decisional Practice' under Competition
Act, 2002 ): 2020/06/747), wherein at paragraphs 12, 13, 14, 16, 24, 25 and 28, it is

observed as under: 12. "Jaadhu has submitted that there is no need to specifically
 define a relevant market in respect of consumer communication
 applications as the Proposed Combination is only a minority
 acquisition. The parties would continue to operate independently
 and therefore, the Proposed Combination would not alter the
 competitive landscape in any potential relevant market in any
 manner. Without prejudice to such submission, it has also
 submitted that Jaadhu firmly believes that it competes in the
 overall broader 'market for user attention'. Facebook group (and
 Jio Platforms) compete broadly with all digital products and
 services that seek to capture user attention, which can be through
 a number of different services such as social networking,
 messaging, gaming, content viewing and sharing, music, amongst
 many others. Without prejudice to the above submissions, Jaadhu
 has further submitted that the Commission, in Vinod Gupta v.
 WhatsApp Inc. (Order dated 01.06.2016 in Case No. 99 of 2016) ,
 had adopted a narrower market definition by covering consumer
 communication applications only. For such narrower market,
 Jaadhu has given submissions to suggest that the Proposed
 Combination is not likely to raise any competition concern. It has
 further submitted that it would be unrealistic to segregate

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 91 of 310 consumer communication applications based on functionality or
 platform. 13. The Commission observes that JioChat, Messenger and
 WhatsApp are all consumer communication applications that
 primarily enable users to interact with each other. The purpose
 and features of these applications serve the particular purpose of
 interaction between individuals or groups and thus, it may not be
 appropriate to consider the relevant market as all user attention
 products/ services. Further, consumer communication
 applications can be segmented based on functionality -
 messaging, voice call and video call; platforms - applications
 meant for desktop, smartphones, tablets, mobile devices, etc.; and
 operating systems (OS) - proprietary applications and those that
 run over different mobile operating systems. 14. In Vinod Gupta case (supra), the Commission dealt with
 alleged abuse of dominant position by WhatsApp. While defining
 the relevant market, the Commission noted that "'WhatsApp', an
 instant communication app for smartphones using standard
 cellular mobile numbers, is a platform for communication through
 texting, group chats and voice and video calls. It is noted that
 instant communication apps cannot be compared with the
 traditional electronic communication services such as text
 messaging, voice calls etc. as provided by various
 telecommunication operators. It is so because unlike traditional
 modes of communication, instant messaging using communication
 apps are internet based and provide additional functionalities to
 the users. For example, users of communication apps can see when
 their contacts are online, when they are typing or when they last
 accessed the application. Further, instant communication apps
 can be used through smartphones only whereas traditional
 electronic communication services can be used through any
 mobile phone. There are also differences in the pricing conditions
 in both the abovesaid modes of communication. 'WhatsApp' is a
 free to download communication application which does not

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 92 of 310 charge any fee from its users for providing the services and just
 uses internet connection on the device to send instant messages,
 connect voice calls etc. Further, text messaging through
 traditional modes can be done between people who do not use the
 mobile service of the same service provider, whereas instant
 messaging services typically require you and your contacts to be
 on the same communication application platform. Thus, the
 Commission is of the view that the relevant product market in this
 case may be considered as 'the market for instant messaging
 services using consumer communication apps through
 smartphones'

 (emphasis added) 16. The Commission observes that all the three consumer
 communication applications of the parties viz. WhatsApp,
 Messenger and Jio Chat offer similar functionalities and are
 available free of cost. It has been stated that applications like Duo
 and Hangout of Google, Snapchat, Wechat, imessage and
 FaceTime of Apple, Telegram and Viber also offer similar
 combination of functionalities and are available free of cost. These
 are seemingly the result of convergence in the consumer
 communication applications market. Thus, for the purpose of
 assessment of the Proposed Combination, it may not be relevant to
 further segment consumer communication applications based on
 functionalities. 24. Jaadhu has submitted that there is no need to specifically
 define a relevant market in respect of advertisement services as the
 Proposed Combination is only a minority acquisition. The parties
 would continue to operate independently and therefore, the
 Proposed Combination would not alter the competitive landscape
 in any potential relevant market in any manner. Without prejudice
 to such submission, Jaadhu has submitted that advertising is a

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 93 of 310 large, diverse segment made up of many forms and mediums such
 as billboards, radio and television spots, print advertising, online
 advertising, etc. It has been further submitted that the purchasers
 of advertising services (i.e, advertisers) procure advertising space,
 often across mediums, to promote a product, service, or cause. It
 has been submitted that the mediums for conveying advertisements
 have expanded in the recent years and now include a wide range
 of platforms including print, television, radio, billboards, cinemas,
 etc. (commonly referred to as offline mediums of advertising) and
 also apps, websites, emails, etc. (commonly referred to as online
 mediums of advertising). 25. Jaadhu has however submitted that there is no need to
 segregate online and offline advertisements as the purpose and
 end-use of advertisements across all mediums is the same and
 these different segments are substitutable from both demand and
 supply side perspectives. Creating awareness of brands, products,
 services and ideas amongst customers / potential customers;
 persuading target customers to buy products or avail services
 and/or reinforcing/ maintaining the demand for products and
 services, all are indicated as intended uses of any advertisement.
 Further submissions have been made regarding fluidity between
 different mediums of advertising, including from a supply side
 perspective. Without prejudice to the above submissions on
 relevant market for advertising services, Jaadhu has also given
 submissions and details for a narrower market like online
 advertisement services and a further narrower market for online
 display advertisement services. The estimates given by Jaadhu for
 these three different alternative markets viz. advertisement
 services, online advertisement and online display advertisement
 are as under: In the notice, the Acquirer had stated that it might seek certain
 affirmative voting rights in its favour in the definitive agreements
 to be entered between the parties and accordingly, the notice was
 being given by them in abundant caution under subsection (2) of Section 6 of the Act, keeping in view the proviso to sub-regulation
 (8) of Regulations 5 of the Competition Commission of India
 (Procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating to
 combinations) Regulations ("Combination Regulations"). 7. The Acquirer has submitted, vide its reply dated 25th August,
 2014 that the Share Purchase Agreement and the Shareholders'
 Agreement in relation to the proposed combination have been
 executed between the parties on 22nd August 2014. It is observed
 that pursuant to the proposed combination, Dunearn would secure
 all the affirmative voting rights which were earlier available to

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 97 of 310 Mozart. Further, as stated by the Acquirer, such rights are for the
 purpose of protecting the minority stake of the Acquirer in the
 target and would not be intended, nor likely, to result in
 operational control of Intas by the Acquirer, as promoters will
 continue to remain in its control and management." 104. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant relies on the `Order' dated

07.03.2018, passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' (u/n Section 31 (1) of

the Competition Act, 2002) vide Combination Registration No. C

2018/01/550-553 in Reliance Jio Infcomm Limited (Acquirer) / Reliance

Communications Limited, Reliance Telecom Limited and Reliance

Infratel Limited (Targets) wherein at paragraphs 24 and 26, it is observed

as under: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 98 of 310 105. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant cites the `Order' dated

25.06.2015, passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' (u/n Section 31 (1) of

the Competition Act, 2002) vide Combination Registration No. C

2015/05/276 in Cairnhill CIPEF Limited (CCL) and Cairnhill CGPE

Limited (CGL) (Acquirers / Mankind Pharma Limited (Target), wherein

at paragraphs 5 and 6, it is observed as under: Further, the SHA confers certain affirmative rights to the Investors
 inter alia including commencement of a new business. Moreover,
 an acquisition could be considered to be made solely as an
 investment if the acquirer has no intention to directly or indirectly
 participate in the formulation and determination of the business
 decisions of the target. In view of the above, the acquisition of 11
 per cent of equity share capital of Mankind would not be treated
 as solely as an investment and thus, the Commission is of the view
 that the proposed combination is not covered under Item 1 of
 Schedule 1 of the Combination Regulations and is notifiable under
 sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act. 6. It is also observed that the trigger for notification under sub-
 section (2) of Section 6 of the Act, in respect of the proposed
 combination, arose from the acquisition of shares in terms of the
 provisions of the SPAs. Further, as per the SPAs, the execution of
 SHA was a condition precedent for the closing of the proposed
 combination. Therefore, in terms of regulation 9(4) of
 Combination Regulations, the execution of SPAs and SHA are
 interconnected and interdependent on each other. Accordingly, it
 appears that the notice in the instant case ought to have been filed
 within 30 days of the execution of the SPA 1." Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 99 of 310 Appellant's Case Laws: Ltd. and Ors., reported in 2020 SCC Online Delhi 454, wherein at

paragraphs 150 to 152, it is observed as under: 107. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' relies on the decision of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ram Parshotam Mittal and Ors. V Hotel

Queen Road Private Limited and Ors reported in 2019, 20 SCC 326 at

Spl. pg: 351, wherein at paragraph 63, it is observed as under: An interim order which does not finally and conclusively decide an
 issue cannot be a precedent. Any reasons assigned in support of
 such nonfinal interim order containing prima facie findings, are
 only tentative. Any interim directions issued on the basis of such
 prima facie findings are temporary arrangements to preserve the
 status quo till the matter is finally decided, to ensure that the
 matter does not become either infructuous or a fait accompli,
 before the final hearing." 108. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' falls back upon the

decision of the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Spread Info Tech

Consultants Private Limited V ZTE Kangxun Telecom Co. India Private

Limited and another, reported in (2014) SCC Online Del 4137, wherein

at paragraph 14, it is observed as under: 109. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' refers to the judgment of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court Premlata @ Sunita V Naseeb Bee Ors., dated

23.03.2022 vide Civil Appeal Nos. 2055 - 2056 of 2022, wherein at

paragraph 4, it is observed as under: defendants took a contrary stand that even the civil suit would be
 barred. In that case the original plaintiff would be remediless. In
 any case the respondents - original defendants cannot be
 permitted to approbate and reprobate and to take just a contrary
 stand than taken before the Revenue Authority." 110. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' cites the decision in Antaios Compania S.A. v Salen Rederierna A.B. (1985) AC 191, 192

(H.L. (E.), wherein it is observed that if conclusions of words in a

`Commercial Contract' flout business sense, it must be made to yield

business common sense. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 103 of 310 111. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant cites the decision of

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Md. Serajuddin and Ors. V The State of

Orissa, reported in (1975) 2 SCC, page 47 at Spl. pg: 73 and 74, wherein

at paragraphs at 61, 62 and 63, it is observed as under: (supra) Shah speaking for the majority observed : 62. Coming to the facts of the present case, I find that it was an
 f.o.b. sale and there was absolutely no chance of diversion of the
 goods by STC for a purpose other than the export to the foreign
 buyer. 63. It may also be mentioned that the position of STC under the
 contract between the appellant and STC was not of a purchaser in
 the ordinary sense of the term. Unlike such a purchaser, STC was
 not entitled to get profits and was not liable to bear losses resulting
 from fluctuations in the market rate of the goods specified in the
 contract. It was not open to STC to charge any price for the goods
 exported to the foreign buyer. The price to be charged from the
 foreign buyer was already fixed in the contract between the
 appellant and STC. An ordinary purchaser of goods is entitled to
 resell the goods or retain them with himself for any length of time.
 There is no obligation upon him to export the goods, much less to
 export them to a specified foreign buyer. As against that, in the
 present case is a result of the agreement between the appellant and
 STC, the latter was not entitled to retain the goods but was bound
 to export them immediately to the specified foreign buyer at a price
 which was already mentioned in the agreement between the
 appellant and STC. In fact, the arrangement for export of the
 goods was also made by the appellant because the contract of sale
 between the appellant and STC was f.o.b. contract. STC came into
 the picture as a statutory intermediary because of the legal
 requirements under the Exports Control Order. All that STC was
 entitled in the bargain was a commission of one 'dollar per ton.
 Indeed, STC in one of its letters described its remuneration as
 commission. In the case of M/s Daruka & Co. V. The Union of

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 105 of 310 India & Ors.(1) this Court observed in para 23 of the judgment
 that the Corporation like STC is in the nature of a commercial
 undertaking to which a licence has been granted for the export of
 certain commodities and the service charges are nothing but quid
 pro quo for the services rendered by the Corporation. The
 introduction of a statutory intermediary Eke STC with only
 entitlement of commission of one dollar per ton would not, in my
 opinion, affect the real nature of the transaction that it was the
 appellant who was to export the chrome concentrates to the
 foreign buyer." 112. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant points out the decision of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Shyam Telelink Limited V Union of India,

reported in (2010) 10 SCC at page 165 at Spl. pg:174, wherein at

paragraph 27, it is observed as under: 113. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant adverts to the decision of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Hari Shankar and Ors. V The Deputy

Excise and Taxation Commissioner and Ors., reported in (1975) 1 SCC

at page 737 at Spl. pgs: 745 and 746, wherein at paragraphs 16, it is

among other things observed as under: 114. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' refers to the judgment of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vijay Karia and Ors. V Prysmian Cavi E

Sistemi SRL and Ors. (2020) 11 SCC 1, at Spl. pg: 5, wherein it is

observed and held as under: 115. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' refers to the judgment of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Pradeep V Goa State Co-operative Bank,

reported in (2017) (3) Maharashtra Law Journal, at page 274, Spl. pgs: Admittedly, there was no challenge raised or objection filed that
 itself concluded the situation. The actions so initiated by the bank
 in no way can be stated to be contrary to law. Therefore, SJS
 Business Enterprises (2004) 7 SCS 166 on fact itself distinct and
 distinguishable. Ludovico Sagrado Goveia (2017) (1)
 MH.L.J.(S.C. 608) is also of no assistance as petitioner in case in
 hand never raised appropriate application within time before
 conclusion of first sale. Therefore, there was no question of
 holding that sale in question was in violation of provisions of Rule
 22 of the Rules as no case was made out by the petitioner to set
 aside even the second sale and consequent action arising out of
 the same." 116. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' relies on the decision of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Electrosteel Castings Limited V U V Asset

Reconstruction (2021) SCC Online SC 1132, at page 385, wherein at

paragraph 29, it is observed as under: 117. The Learned Counsel for the `Appellant' cites the Judgment of this
Tribunal dated 08.09.2021 in Devas Multimedia Private Limited V
Antrix Corporation Limited, reported in (2021) SCC Online NCLAT
448, wherein at paragraphs 192 to 208, it is observed as under: 193. Halsbury's Laws of England has defined "fraud" as follows: 194. In Kerr on the Law of Fraud and Mistake, "fraud" has been
 defined thus: 195. In Ram Chandra Singh v. Savitri Devi (( 2007) 10 SCC 674
 Sunil Pannalal Banthia v City & Industrial Development Corpn.
 Of Maharashtra Ltd. ), it was observed that fraud vitiates every
 Solemn act. Fraud and justice never dwell together and it cannot
 be perpetuated or saved by the application of any equitable
 doctrine Including res judicata. This Court observed as under: Fraud, as is well known, vitiates every solemn act. Fraud
 and justice never dwell together. 16. Fraud is a conduct either by letter or words, which
 induces the other person or authority to take a definite
 determinative stand as a response to the conduct of the
 former either by word or letter. 17. It is also well settled that misrepresentation itself
 amounts to fraud. Indeed, innocent misrepresentation may
 also give reason to claim relief against fraud. 18. A fraudulent misrepresentation is called deceit and
 consists in leading a man into damage by wilfuly or
 recklessly causing him to believe and act on falsehood. It is
 a fraud in law if a party makes representations which he
 knows to be false, and injury ensues therefrom although the
 motive from which the representations proceeded may not
 have been bad. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 112 of 310 23. An act of fraud on court is always viewed seriously. A
 collusion or conspiracy with a view to deprive the rights of
 the others in relation to a property would render the
 transaction void ab initio. Fraud and deception are
 synonymous. 25. Although in a given case a deception may not amount to
 fraud, fraud is anathema to all equitable principles and any
 affair tainted with fraud cannot be perpetuated or saved by
 the application of any equitable doctrine including res
 judicata. (emphasis supplied) 196. In Madhukar Sadbha Shivarkar v. State of
 Maharashtra (( 2006) 13 SCC 382, Nagar Nigam v Alfaheem
 Meat Exports (P) Ltd. ), this Court observed that fraud had
 been played by showing the records and the orders obtained
 unlawfully by the declarant, would be a nullity in the eye of
 the law though such orders have attained finality. Following
 observations were made: (SCC pp. 569-70, para 27) 27. The said order is passed by the State Government only
 to enquire into the landholding records with a view to find
 out as to whether original land revenue records have been
 destroyed and fabricated to substantiate their unjustifiable
 claim by playing fraud upon the Tahsildar and appellate
 authorities to obtain the orders unlawfully in their favour by
 showing that there is no surplus land with the Company and
 its shareholders as the valid sub-leases are made and they
 are accepted by them in the proceedings under Section 21 of the Act, on the basis of the alleged false declarations filed
 by the shareholders and sub-lessees under Section 6 of the
 Act. The plea urged on behalf of the State Government and
 the de facto complainant owners, at whose instance the
 orders are passed by the State Government on the alleged

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 113 of 310 ground of fraud played by the declarants upon the Tahsildar
 and appellate authorities to get the illegal orders obtained
 by them to come out from the clutches of the land ceiling
 provisions of the Act by creating the revenue records, which
 is the fraudulent act on their part which unravels everything
 and therefore, the question of limitation under the
 provisions to exercise power by the state Government does
 not arise at all. For this purpose, the Deputy Commissioner
 of Pune Division was appointed as the enquiry officer to
 hold Such an enquiry to enquire into the matter and submit
 his report for consideration of the Government to take
 further action in the matter. The legal contentions urged by
 Mr. Naphade, in justification of the impugned judgment and
 order prima facie at this stage, we are satisfied that the
 allegation of fraud in relation to getting the landholdings of
 the Villages referred to supra by the declarants on the
 alleged ground of destroying original records and
 fabricating revenue records to show that there are 384 sub-
 leases of the land involved in the proceedings to retain the
 surplus land illegally as alleged, to the extent of more than
 3000 acres of land and the orders are obtained unlawfully
 by the declarants in the land ceiling limits will be nullity in
 the eye of the law though such they are tainted with fraud,
 the same can be interfered with by the State Government
 and officers to pass appropriate orders. The landowners are
 also aggrieved parties to agitate their rights to get the
 orders which are obtained by the declarants as they are
 vitiated in on account of nullity is the tenable submission
 and the same is well founded and therefore, we accept the
 submission to justify the impugned judgment and order Babu Maruti Dukare v. State of Maharashtra (( 2006) 3 SCC

 549, Intellectuals Forum v State of A. P ) of the Division
 Bench of the High Court." (emphasis supplied)

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 114 of 310 197. In Jai Narain Parasrampuria v. Pushpa Devi Saraf (( 2006) 3 SCC 434 Bombay Dyeing & MFG. Co. Ltd., (3) v
 Bombay Environmental Action Group ), this Court observed
 that fraud Vitiates every solemn act. Any order or decree
 obtained by practicing fraud is a nullity. his Court held as
 under: 198. In State of A.P. v. T. Suryachandra Rao ((2004) 4 SCC
 489, Special Reference No. 1 of 2001, In Re, it was observed
 that where the land which was offered for surrender had
 already been acquired by the State and the same had vested
 in it. It was held that merely because an enquiry was made,
 the Tribunal was not divested of the power to correct the

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 115 of 310 error when the respondent had clearly committed a fraud.
 Following observations were made: (SCC pp. 152-53 &
 155, paras 7-10 & 13-16)

 "7. The order of the High Court is clearly erroneous. There
 is no dispute that the land which was offered for surrender
 by the respondent had already been acquired by the State
 and the same had vested in it. This was clearly a case of
 fraud. Merely because an enquiry was made, the Tribunal
 was not divested of the power to correct the error when the
 respondent had clearly committed a fraud. 8. By "fraud" is meant an intention to deceive; whether it is
 from any expectation of advantage to the party himself or
 from ill-will towards the other is immaterial. The expression
 "fraud" involves two elements, deceit and injury to the
 person deceived. Injury is something other than economic
 loss, that is, deprivation of property, whether movable or
 immovable or of money and it will include any harm
 whatever caused to any person in body, mind, reputation or
 such others. In short, it is a non-economic or non-pecuniary
 loss. A benefit or advantage to the deceiver, will almost
 always cause loss or detriment to the deceived. Even in
 those rare cases where there is a benefit or advantage to the
 deceiver, but no corresponding loss to the deceived, the
 Second condition is satisfied. [See Vimla v. Delhi Admn. (( 1996) 6 SCC 530, Common Cause v Union of India and Indian Bank v. Satyam Fibres (India) (P) Ltd. (( 1996) 5 SCC
 510, New India Public School v HUDA ] 9. A "fraud" is an act of deliberate deception with the design
 of securing something by taking unfair advantage of
 another. It is a deception in order to gain by another's OSs.
 It is a cheating intended to get an advantage. (See S.P,
 Chengalvaraya Naldu V. Jagannath (( 1996) 2 SCC 405
 Delhi Science Forum v Union of India .)

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 116 of 310 10. "Fraud" as Is well known vitiates every solemn act.
 Fraud and justice never dwell together. Fraud is a conduct
 either by letter or words, which includes or the other person
 authority to take a definite determinative stand as a
 response to the conduct of the former either by words or
 letter. It is also well settled that misrepresentation amounts
 itself relief against to fraud. Indeed, Innocent
 misrepresentation may also give reason to claim fraud. A
 fraudulent misrepresentation is called deceit and consists in
 leading a man into damage by wilfully or recklessly causing
 him to believe and act on falsehood. It is a fraud in taw if a
 party makes representations, which he knows to be false,
 and injury ensures therefrom although the motive from
 which the representations proceeded may not have been
 bad. An act of fraud on court is always viewed seriously. A
 collusion or conspiracy with a view to deprive the rights of
 the others in relation to a property would render the
 transaction void ab initio. Fraud and deception are
 synonymous. Although In a given case a deception may not
 amount to fraud, fraud is an anathema to all equitable
 principles and any affair tainted with fraud cannot be
 perpetuated or saved by the application of any equitable
 doctrine including res judicata. (See Ram Chandra Singh v.
 Savitri Devi ((2007) 10 SCC 674, Sunil Pannalal Banthia V
 City Industrial Development Corpn. Of Maharashtra Ltd..) 13. This aspect of the matter has been considered recently
 by this Court in Roshan Deen v. Preeti Lal (( 1995) 5 SCC
 482, LIC v Consumer Education & Research Centre , Ram
 Preeti Yadav v. U.P. Board of High School and Intermediate
 Education (( 1995) 2 SCC 161, Ministry of Information &
 Broadcasting Govt. of India v Cricket Assn. of Bengal , Ram
 Chandra Singh v. Savitri Devi ((20007) 1o SCC 674 Sunil
 Pannalal Banthia V City Industrial Development Corpn. Of
 Maharashtra Ltd..) and Ashok Leyland Ltd. v. State of T.N

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 117 of 310 ((1993) 52 DLT 168, Home communication Ltd. v Union of
 India ) 14. Suppression of a material document would also amount
 to a fraud on the court. (See Gowrishankar v. Joshi Amba
 Shankar Family Trust(( 1991) 2 SCC 48, Premchand
 Somchand Shah v Union of India and S.P. Chengalvaraya
 Naidu v. Jagannath (( 1996) 2 SCC 405 Delhi Science
 Forum v Union of India .) 15. "Fraud" is a conduct either by letter or words, which
 induces the other person or authority to take a definite
 determinative stand as a response to the conduct of the
 former either by words or letter. Although negligence is not
 fraud but it can be evidence of fraud; as observed in Ram
 Preeti Yadav (( 1995) 2 SCC 161 Ministry of Information &
 Broadcasting, Govt. of India v Cricket Assn. of Bengal ). 16. In Lazarus Estates Ltd. v. Beasley2, Lord Denning
 observed at QB pp. 712 and 713: (All ER p. 345 C)

 'No judgment of a court, no order of a minister can be
 allowed to stand if it has been obtained by fraud. Fraud
 unravels everything.'

 In the same judgment, Lord Parker, L.J. observed that fraud
 'vitiates all transactions known to the law of however high
 a degree of solemnity' (All ER p. 351 E-F)." (emphasis supplied) 199. In A.V. Papayya Sastry v. State of A.P, ((1987) 2 SCC 295
 Sachidanand Pandey v State of W.B.) , this Court as to the effect
 of fraud on the Judgment or order observed thus: (SCC pp. 231 &
 236-37, paras 21-22 & 38-39)

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 118 of 310 "21. Now, it is well-settled principle of law that If any
 judgment or order is obtained by fraud, it cannot be said to
 be a judgment or order in law. Before three centuries, Chief
 Justice Edward Coke proclaimed: 22. It is thus settled proposition of law that a judgment,
 decree or order obtained Dy playing fraud on the court,
 tribunal or authority Is a nullity and non est in the eye of the
 law. Such a judgment, decree or order-by the first court or
 by the final court-has to Decree treated as nullity by every
 court, superior or Inferior. It can be challenged in any
 court, at any time, in appeal, revision, writ or even in
 collateral proceedings. 38. The matter can be looked at from a different angle as
 well. Suppose, a case is decided by a competent court of law
 after hearing the parties and an order is passed in favour of
 the plaintiff applicant which is upheld by all the courts
 including the final court. Let us also think of a case where
 this Court does not dismiss special eave petition but after
 granting leave decides the appeal finally by recording
 reasons. Such order can truly be said to be a judgment to
 which Article 141 of the Constitution applies. Likewise, the
 doctrine of merger also gets attracted. All orders passed by
 the courts/authorities below, therefore, merge in the
 judgment of this Court and after such judgment, it is not
 open to any party to the judgment to approach any court or
 authority to review, recall or reconsider the order. 39. The above principle, however, is subject to exception of
 fraud. Once it is established that the order was obtained by
 a successful party by practising or playing fraud, it is
 vitiated. Such order cannot be held legal, valid or in
 consonance with law. It is non-existent and non est and

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 119 of 310 cannot be allowed to stand. This is the fundamental
 principle of law and needs no further elaboration.
 Therefore, it has been said that a judgment, decree or order
 obtained by fraud has to be treated as a nullity, whether by
 the court of first instance or by the final court. And it has to
 be treated as non est by every court, superior or inferior." Supervisory jurisdiction of the court can be exercised in
 case of error apparent on the face of the record, abuse of
 process and if the issue goes to the root of the matter. 200. In S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath (( 1996) 2 SCC
 405, Delhi Science Forum v Union of India ), this Court noted that
 the issue of fraud goes to the root of the matter and it exercised
 powers under Article 136 to cure the defect. The Court observed: The short question before the High Court was whether in the
 facts and circumstances of this case, Jagannath obtained the
 preliminary decree by playing fraud on the court. The High
 Court, however, went haywire and made observations which
 are wholly perverse. We do not agree with the High Court
 that 'there is no legal duty cast upon the plaintiff to come to
 court with a true case and prove it by true evidence'. The
 principle of 'finality of litigation' cannot be pressed to the
 extent of such an absurdity that It becomes an engine of
 fraud in the hands of dishonest litigants. The courts of law
 are meant for imparting justice between the parties. One
 who comes to the court, must come with clean hands. We
 are constrained to say that more often than not, the process
 of the court is being abused. Property-grabbers, tax
 evaders, bank loan-dodgers and other unscrupulous
 persons from all walks of life find the court-process a
 convenient lever to retain the illegal gains indefinitely. We

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 120 of 310 have no hesitation to say that a person, whose case is based
 on falsehood, has no right to approach the court. He can be
 summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation. 6. The facts of the present case leave no manner of doubt
 that Jagannath obtained the preliminary decree by playing
 fraud on the court. A fraud Is an act of deliberate deception
 with the design of securing something by taking unfair
 advantage of another It is a deception in order to gain by
 another's loss. It Is a cheating intended to get an advantage.
 Jagannath was working as a clerk with Chunilal Sowcar.
 He purchased the property in the court auction on behalf of
 Chunilal Sowcar. He had, on his own volition, executed the
 registered release deed (Ext. B-15) in favour of Chunilal
 Sowcar regarding the property in dispute. He knew that the
 appellants had paid the total decretal amount to his master
 Chunilal Sowcar. Without disclosing all these facts, he filed
 the suit for the partition of the property on the ground that
 he had purchased the property on his own behalf and not on
 behalf of Chunilal Sowcar. Non-production and even non
 mentioning of the release deed at the trial is tantamount to
 playing fraud on the court. We do not agree with the
 observations of the High Court that the appellant
 defendants could have easily produced the certified
 registered copy of Ext. B-15 and non-suited the plaintiff. A
 litigant, who approaches the court, is bound to produce all
 the documents executed by him which are relevant to the
 litigation. If the withholds a vital document in order to gain
 advantage on the other side then he would be guilty of
 playing fraud on the court as well as on the opposite party. In addition, the Learned Counsel for the 1st Respondent
 refers to the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Bhaurao
 Dagdu Paralkar V State of Maharashtra and Ors reported

 in (2005) 7 SCC 605 wherein at para 9-16 it is observed as
 under: ((2003) 8 SCC 311 Ram Preeti Yadav V U.P Board of High
 School & Intermediate Education]

 10 . A "fraud" is an act of deliberate deception with the
 design of securing something by taking unfair advantage of
 another. It is a deception in order to gain by another's loss.
 It is a cheating intended to get an advantage. (See S.P.
 Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath ((2002) 1 SCC 100: 11. "Fraud" as is well known vitiates every solemn act.
 Fraud and justice never dwell together. Fraud is a conduct
 either by letters or words, which induces the other person
 or authority to take a definite determinative stand as a
 response to the conduct of the former either by words or
 letters, It is a well settled that misrepresentation itself
 amounts to fraud. Indeed, innocent misrepresentation may
 also give reason to claim relief against fraud. A fraudulent
 misrepresentation is called deceit and consists in leading a
 man into damage by wilfully or recklessly causing him to
 believe and act on falsehood. It is a fraud in law if a party
 makes representations, which he knows to be false, and

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 122 of 310 injury ensues therefrom although the motive from which the
 representations proceeded may not have been bad. An act
 of fraud on court is always viewed seriously. A collusion or
 conspiracy with a view to deprive the rights of others in
 relation to a property would Ender the transaction void ab
 initio. Fraud and deception are synonymous. Although a
 given case a deception may not amount to fraud, fraud is
 anathema to all equitable principles and any affair tainted
 with fraud cannot be perpetuated or saved by the
 application of any equitable doctrine including res judicata.
 (See Ram Chandra Singh v. Savitri Devi ((2001) 8 SCC 8: 12. In Shrisht Dhawan v. Shaw Bros. (( 1996) 5 SCC 550,
 Indian Bank v Sathyam Fibres (India) (P) Ltd. ,), it was
 observed as follows: (SCC p. 553, para 20) "Fraud" and
 collusion vitiate even the most solemn proceedings in any
 civilized System of jurisprudence. It is a concept descriptive
 of human conduct. Michael Levi kens a fraudster to Milton's
 sorcerer, Camus, who exulted in his ability to, "wing me into
 the easy-hearted man and trap him into snares". It has been
 defined as an act or trickery or deceit. In Webster's Third
 New International Dictionary "fraud" in equity has been
 defined as an act or omission to act or concealment by
 which one person obtains an advantage against conscience
 over another or which equity or public policy forbids as
 being prejudicial to another. In Black's Law Dictionary
 "fraud" is defined as an intentional perversion of truth for
 the purpose of inducing another in reliance upon it to part
 with some valuable thing belonging to him or Surender a
 legal right a false representation of a matter of fact whether
 by words or by conduct, by false or misleading allegations,
 or by concealment of that which should have been disclosed,
 which deceives and if intended to deceive another so that he
 shall act upon it to his legal injury. In Concise Oxford
 Dictionary, it has been defined as Criminal Deception, use

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 123 of 310 of false representation to gain unjust advantage; dishonest
 artifice or trick. Accordingly to Halsbury's Law of England, a
 representation is deemed to have been false, and therefore
 a misrepresentation, if it was at the material date false in
 substance and in fact. Section 17 of the Contract Act, 1872
 defines "Fraud" as an act committed by a party to a
 contract with intend to deceive another. From the dictionary
 meaning or even otherwise fraud arises out of a deliberate
 active role of the representator about the fact, which he
 knows to be untrue yet he succeeds in misleading the
 representee by making him believe it to be true. The
 representation to become fraudulent must be of fact with
 knowledge that it was false. In a leading English Case that
 is Derry v Peek ((1996) 3 SCC 310, Gowrisankar v Joshi
 Amba Sankar Family Trust what constitutes "Fraud" was
 described thus: (All ER P 22 B-C)

 "Fraud' is proved when it is shown that your false
 representation has been made (I) knowingly , or (II) without
 belief in its truth, or (III) recklessly, careless whether if be
 true or false.: 13. This aspect of the matter has been considered recently
 by this court in Roshan Deen V Preeti Lal ((1993) Supp (3)
 SCC 2 ; AIR 1993 SC 2127, Mukund Lal Bhandari v Union
 of India), Ram Preeti Yadav v U.P Board of High School
 and Intermediate Education0 (( 1992) 1 SCC 534, Shrisht
 Dawan v Shaw Bros . ), Ram Chandra Singh ((2001) 8 SCC
 8 ; (2001) AIR SCW 3843, Gurudial Singh V Union of India)
 and Ashok Leyland Ltd. v State of T.N ((1983) 1 All ER 765; Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 125 of 310 1984 AC 74; (1982) 1 WLR 948 (HL) Khawaja v Secy. Of
 State of Home Deptt. ) 14. Suppression of a material document would also amount
 to a fraud on the court. See Gowrishankar v. Joshi Amba
 Shankar Family Trust ((1963) Supp (2) SCR 585; AIR 1963
 SC 1572, Vimla (Dr) v Delhi Admn. and S.P. Chengalvaraya
 Naidu cases. ((2002) 1 SCC 100; ( 2022) SCC (L & S) 97,
 Roshan Deen v Preeti Lal ) 15. "Fraud" is a conduct either by letter or words, which
 induces the other person or authority to take a definite
 determinative stand as a response to the conduct of the
 former either by words or letter. Although negligence is not
 fraud but it can be evidence on fraud; as observed in Ram
 Preeti Yadav case (( 1992) 1 SCC 534, Shrisht Dawan v
 Shaw Bros ). 16. In Lazarus Estates Ltd. V. Beasley ((1956) 1 QB 702;
 (1956) 1 All ER 341; (1956) 2 WLR 502 (CA), Lazarus
 Estates Ltd., v Beasley , Lord Denning observed at QB pp.
 712 and713: (All ER p. 345 C)

 "No judgment of a court, no order of a minister, can
 be allowed to stand if it has been obtained by fraud.
 Fraud unravels everything." Tn the same judgment
 Lord Parker, L.J. observed that fraud vitiates all
 transactions known to the law of however high a
 degree of solemnity. (pn722 These aspects were
 recently highlighted in State of A.P. v. T.
 Suryachandra Rao ((1886-90) All ER Rep 1 ; (1889)
 14 AC 337; 61 LT 265 (HL) Derry V Peek.)

 The Learned Counsel for the 1st Respondent seeks in
 aid of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Shrisht Dhawan
 (SMT) V M/s. Shaw Brothers reported in (1992) 1
 SCC 534 at para 534 wherein it is observed as under: It is a concept descriptive of human conduct. Michael
 Levi likens a fraudster to Milton's sorcerer, Comus,
 who exulted in his ability to, 'wing me into the easy-
 hearted man and trap him into snares'. It has been
 defined as an act of trickery or deceit. In Webster's
 Third New International Dictionary fraud in equity
 has been defined as an act or omission to act or
 concealment by which one person obtains an
 advantage against conscience over another or which
 equity or public policy forbids as being prejudicial to
 another. In Black's Legal Dictionary, fraud is defined
 as an fraud is defined as an intentional perversion of
 truth for the purpose of inducing another in reliance
 upon it to part with some valuable thing belonging to
 him or surrender a legal right; a false representation
 of a matter of fact whether by words or by conduct,
 by false or misleading allegations, or by concealment
 of that which should have been disclosed, which
 deceives and is intended to deceive another so that he
 shall act upon it to his legal injury. In Concise Oxford
 Dictionary, it has been defined as criminal deception,
 use of false representation to gain unjust advantage;
 dishonest artifice or trick. According to Halsbury's
 Laws of England, a representation is deemed to have
 been false, and therefore a misrepresentation, if it
 was at the material date false in substance and in fact. Section 17 of the Contract Act defines fraud as act
 committed by a party to a contract with intent to
 deceive another. From dictionary meaning or even
 otherwise fraud arises out of deliberate active role of
 representator about a fact which he knows to be
 untrue yet he succeeds in misleading the representee
 by making him believe it to be true. The
 representation to become fraudulent must be of a fact
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 127 of 310 with knowledge that it was false. In a leading English
 case (Derry V Peek (1886-90) All ER 1: 1889 14 SC
 337: 5TLR 625) what constitutes fraud was described
 thus: (All ER p. 22 B-C)

 "[F]raud is proved when it is shown that a false
 representation has been made (i) knowingly, or (ii)
 without belief in its truth, or (iii) recklessly, careless
 whether it be true or false." But fraud in public law is not the same as fraud in
 private law. Nor can the ingredients which establish
 fraud in commercial transaction be of assistance in
 determining fraud in Administrative Law. It has been
 aptly observed by Lord Bridge in Khawaja ( Khawaja
 v Secy of State for Home Deptt., (1983) 1 All ER 765)
 that it is dangerous to introduce maxims of common
 law as to effect of fraud fraud while determining
 fraud in relation to statutory law. In Pankaj Bhargav
 v Mohinder Nath , (1991) 1 SCC 556; AIR 1991 SC
 1233) it was observed that fraud in relation to statute
 must be a colourable transaction to evade the
 provisions of a statute. A statute has been passed for
 some one particular purpose, a court of law will not
 countenance any attempt which may be made to
 extend the operation of the Act to something else
 which is quite foreign to its object and beyond its
 scope." (Craies on Statue Law, 7th Edn., P.79).
 Present day concept of fraud on statute has veered
 round abuse of power or mala fide exercise of power.
 It may arise due to overstepping the limits of power
 or defeating the provision of statute by adopting
 subterfuge or the power may be exercised for
 extraneous or irrelevant considerations. The
 administrative law, as it is developing, is assuming
 different shades. It arises from a deception committed

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 128 of 310 by disclosure of incorrect facts knowingly and
 deliberately to invoke exercise of power and procure
 an order from an authority or tribunal. It must result
 in exercise of jurisdiction which otherwise would not
 have been exercised. That is misrepresentation must
 be in relation to the conditions provided in a section
 on existence or non-existence of which power can be
 exercised. But fraud. Even in fact not required by a
 statute to be disclosed may not amount to fraud. Even
 in commercial transactions nondisclosure of every
 fact does not vitiate the agreement. In a contract
 every person must look for himself and ensures that
 he acquire deceive. Information necessary to avoid
 bad bargain." (Anson's Law of Contract) In public
 law the duty is not to deceive. For instance non-
 disclosure of any reason in the application under e
 remises Act about its need after expiry of period or
 failure to give reason that the premises shall be
 required by son, daughter or any other family
 member does not result in misrepresentation or fraud.
 It is not misrepresentation under section 21 to state
 that the premises shall be needed by the landlord after
 expiry of the lease even though the premises in
 occupation of the landlord on the date of application
 or, after expiry or period were or may be sufficient. a
 non-disclosure of fact which is not required by law to
 be disclosed does not amount to misrepresentation. section 21 does not place any positive or
 comprehensive duty on the landlord to disclose any
 fact except that he did not need the premises for the
 specified period. even the controller is not obliged
 with a pro-active duty to investigate. silence or non-
 disclosure of facts not required by law to be disclosed
 does not amount to misrepresentation. even in
 contracts it is excluded as is clear from explanation
 to section 17 unless it relates to fact which is likely to
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 129 of 310 affect willingness of a person to enter into a contract.
 fraud or misrepresentation resulting in vitiation of
 permission in context of section 21 therefore could
 mean disclosure of false facts but for which the
 Controller would not have exercised jurisdiction. The
 Learned Counsel for the 1st Respondent adverts to
 the Judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
 Venture Global Engineering V Tech Mahindra
 Limited reported in (2018) 1 SCC 656 wherein at
 para 76-83 it is observed as under: It matters not that there was no intention to cheat or injure the
 person to whom the statement was made. (See Kerr on Fraud and
 Mistake, 7th Edn., p. 7.) 206. This rule of law is applicable not only between the two
 individuals entering into any contract but is also applicable
 between an individual and a company and also between the two
 companies. (See Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, 7th Edn., p. 99.) 207. The author said that this principle is also not limited to cases
 where an express and distinct representation by words has been
 made, but it applies equally to cases where a man by his silence
 causes another to believe in the existence of a certain state of
 things, or so conducts himself as to Induce a reasonable man to
 take the representation to be true, and to believe that it was meant
 that he should act upon it, and the other accordingly acts upon it
 and so alters his previous position. (See Kerr on Fraud and
 Mistake, 7th Edn., p. 110.) 208. The author said that where there is a duty or obligation to
 speak, and a man in reach of that duty or obligation holds his
 tongue and does not speak and does not say the thing which he was
 bound to say, if that be done with the intention of inducing the
 other party to act upon the belief that the reason why he did not
 speak was because he had nothing to say, there is a fraud. (See
 Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, 7th Edn., p. 110). Para 7. The Learned counsel of the 1st Respondent cites two
 decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Panther Fincap and
 Management Services Ltd V Central Government through
 the Department of Company Affairs reported in (2005) SCC
 Online Bom 386 wherein at para 33 it is observed as under: Undoubtedly it can be that there may be an overlapping
 investigation but in my opinion such an eventuality cannot
 prevent any investigating authority from carrying out
 investigation in respect of their jurisdiction conferred on
 them under the statute. I am also of the further opinion that
 the investigation in respect of the corporate fraud can be
 initiated and considered by the central government under
 section 237 (b)(i) of the companies Act. I have not been able
 to come across any provisions under the SEBI act in which
 any corporate fraud can be investigated by the SEBI.
 Undoubtedly it can be investigated under normal criminal
 law by the CBI. I am further of the opinion that merely
 because the material on the basis of which investigation is
 being undertaken is identical to the material which is
 subject matter of investigation by the other authority it
 cannot be stated that both the authorities cannot
 simultaneously investigate pursuant to power conferred on
 them under their respective statutes. I am of the opinion that
 every authority is entitled to investigate even may be in
 respect of the same material as well as from the angle and
 facet in which they have been asked to carry out
 investigation. It is possible that the SEBI may be
 investigating the same material on the ground of breach of
 the various provisions of the SEBI act and other security
 related legislations whereas the central government,
 department of company affairs can consider and/or
 investigate the fraud and/or breach of various provisions of
 law in the light and context of the provisions of the
 companies act may be in respect of the same material.
 However, I am of the opinion that the contentions advanced
 by the learned counsel for the appellant cannot be accepted
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 133 of 310 particularly in view of the fact that every authority has been
 conferred various powers in their respective legislation. A
 similar issue aroused before the English Court under the
 identical provisions of investigation under the Companies
 Law and the Court of Appeal in the case of Re London
 United Investments plc reported in 1992 BCLC 285
 equivalent to 1971 All England Law Reports page 849 it is
 held as under: 1294)

 "... A breach of procedure. cannot give [rise to] a remedy
 in the courts, unless behind it there is something of
 substance which has been lost by the failure. The court does
 not act in vain." Relying on these comments, Brandon L.3 opined in
 Cinnamond v. British Airports Authority ((1980) 1 WLR
 582; (1980) 2 ALL ER 368 (CA) that: (WLR p. 593: All ER
 p. 377)

 "... no one can complain of not being given an opportunity
 to make representations if such an opportunity would have
 availed him nothing. "In such situations, fair procedures
 appear to serve no purpose since the "right" result can be
 secured without according such treatment to the
 individual." 40. In this behalf, we need to notice one other exception
 which has been carved out to the aforesaid principle by the
 courts. Even if it is found by the court that there is a
 violation of principles of natural justice, the courts have
 held that it may not be necessary to strike down the action
 and refer the matter back to the authorities to take fresh
 decision after complying with the procedural requirement
 in those cases where non-grant of hearing has not caused
 any prejudice to the person against whom the action is

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 135 of 310 taken. Therefore, every violation of a facet of natural justice
 may not lead to the conclusion that the order passed is
 always null and void. The validity of the order has to be
 decided on the touchstone of "prejudice". The ultimate test
 is always the same viz. the test of prejudice or the test of fair
 hearing." 118. In the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vidya Drolia V
Durga Trading Corporation, reported in (2021) 2 SCC at page 146,
wherein at paragraph 146 to 153, it is observed and held as under: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 137 of 310 Existence and validity are intertwined, and arbitration agreement
 does not exist if it is illegal or does not satisfy mandatory legal
 requirements. Invalid agreement is no agreement. 147.2. The court at the reference stage exercises judicial powers.
 'Examination', as an ordinary expression in common parlance,
 refers to an act of looking or considering something carefully in
 order to discover something (as per Cambridge Dictionary). It
 requires the person to inspect closely, to test the condition of, or
 to inquire into carefully (as per Merriam- Webster Dictionary). It
 would be rather odd for the court to hold and say that the
 arbitration agreement exists, though ex facie and manifestly the
 arbitration agreement is invalid in law and the dispute in question
 is non-arbitrable. The court is not powerless and would not act
 beyond jurisdiction, if it rejects an application for reference, when
 the arbitration clause is admittedly or without doubt is with a
 minor, lunatic or the only claim seeks a probate of a Will. 147.3. Most scholars and jurists accept and agree that the
 existence and validity of an arbitration agreement are the same.
 Even Starvos Brekoulakis accepts that validity, in terms of
 substantive and formal validity, are questions of contract and
 hence for the court to examine. 147.4. Most jurisdictions accept and require prima facie review by
 the court on non-arbitrability aspects at the referral stage. 147.5. Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act are complementary
 provisions as was held in Patel Engineering Ltd.. The object and
 purpose behind the two provisions is identical to compel and force
 parties to abide by their contractual understanding. This being so,
 the two provisions should be read as laying down similar standard
 and not as laying down different and separate parameters. Section
 11 does not prescribe any standard of judicial review by the court
 for determining whether an arbitration agreement is in
 existence. Section 8 states that the judicial review at the stage of
 reference is prima facie and not final. Prima facie standard
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 138 of 310 equally applies when the power of judicial review is exercised by
 the court under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act. Therefore, we
 can read the mandate of valid arbitration agreement in Section
 8 into mandate of Section 11 , that is, 'existence of an arbitration
 agreement'. 147.6. Exercise of power of prima facie judicial review of existence
 as including validity is justified as a court is the first forum that
 examines and decides the request for the referral. Absolute "hands
 off" approach would be counterproductive and harm arbitration,
 as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism. Limited, yet
 effective intervention is acceptable as it does not obstruct but
 effectuates arbitration. 147.7. Exercise of the limited prima facie review does not in any
 way interfere with the principle of competence- competence and
 separation as to obstruct arbitration proceedings but ensures that
 vexatious and frivolous matters get over at the initial stage. 147.8. Exercise of prima facie power of judicial review as to the
 validity of the arbitration agreement would save costs and check
 harassment of objecting parties when there is clearly no
 justification and a good reason not to accept plea of non-
 arbitrability. In Subrata Roy Sahara v. Union of India,75 this
 Court has observed: 147.9. Even in Duro Felguera, Kurian Joseph, J., in paragraph 52,
 had referred to Section 7(5) and thereafter in paragraph 53
 referred to a judgment of this Court in M.R. Engineers and
 Contractors Private Limited v. Som Datt Builders Limited to
 observe that the analysis in the said case supports the final
 conclusion that the Memorandum of Understanding in the said
 case did not incorporate an arbitration clause. Thereafter,
 reference was specifically made to Patel Engineering Ltd. and
 Boghara Polyfab Private Limited to observe that the legislative
 policy is essential to minimise court's interference at the pre-
 arbitral stage and this was the intention of sub-section (6)
 to Section 11 of the Arbitration Act. Paragraph 48 in Duro
 Felguera 76 (2009) 7 SCC 696 specifically states that the
 resolution has to exist in the arbitration agreement, and it is for
 the court to see if the agreement contains a clause which provides
 for arbitration of disputes which have arisen between the parties.
 Paragraph 59 is more restrictive and requires the court to see
 whether an arbitration agreement exists - nothing more, nothing
 less. Read with the other findings, it would be appropriate to read
 the two paragraphs as laying down the legal ratio that the court is
 required to see if the underlying contract contains an arbitration
 clause for arbitration of the disputes which have arisen between
 the parties - nothing more, nothing less. Reference to decisions in
 Patel Engineering Ltd. and Boghara Polyfab Private Limited was

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 140 of 310 to highlight that at the reference stage, post the amendments vide
 Act 3 of 2016, the court would not go into and finally decide
 different aspects that were highlighted in the two decisions. 147.10. In addition to Garware Wall Ropes Limited case, this
 Court in Narbheram Power and Steel Private Limited and
 Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd., both decisions of three
 Judges, has rejected the application for reference in the insurance
 contracts holding that the claim was beyond and not covered by
 the arbitration agreement. The court felt that the legal position
 was beyond doubt as the scope of the arbitration clause was fully
 covered by the dictum in Vulcan Insurance Co. Ltd. Similarly, in
 M/s. PSA Mumbai Investments PTE. Limited, this Court at the
 referral stage came to the conclusion that the arbitration clause
 would not be applicable and govern the disputes. Accordingly, the
 reference to the arbitral tribunal was set aside leaving the
 respondent to pursue its claim before an appropriate forum. 147.11. The interpretation appropriately balances the allocation
 of the decision-making authority between the court at the referral
 stage and the arbitrators' primary jurisdiction to decide disputes
 on merits. The court as the judicial forum of the first instance can
 exercise prima facie test jurisdiction to screen and knockdown ex
 facie meritless, frivolous and dishonest litigation. Limited
 jurisdiction of the courts ensures expeditious, alacritous and
 efficient disposal when required at the referral stage. 148. Section 43(1) of the Arbitration Act states that the Limitation
 Act, 1963 shall apply to arbitrations as it applies to court
 proceedings. Sub-section (2) states that for the purposes of
 the Arbitration Act and Limitation Act, arbitration shall be
 deemed to have commenced on the date referred to in Section. 21.
 Limitation law is procedural and normally disputes, being factual,
 would be for the arbitrator to decide guided by the facts found and
 the law applicable. The court at the referral stage can interfere
 only when it is manifest that the claims are ex facie time barred

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 141 of 310 and dead, or there is no subsisting dispute. All other cases should
 be referred to the arbitral tribunal for decision on merits. Similar
 would be the position in case of disputed 'no claim certificate' or
 defence on the plea of novation and 'accord and satisfaction'. As
 observed in Premium Nafta Products Ltd., it is not to be expected
 that commercial men while entering transactions inter se would
 knowingly create a system which would require that the court
 should first decide whether the contract should be rectified or
 avoided or rescinded, as the case may be, and then if the contract
 is held to be valid, it would require the arbitrator to resolve the
 issues that have arisen. 149. We would also resolve the question of principles applicable
 to interpretation of an arbitration clause. This is important and
 directly relates to scope of the arbitration agreement. In Premium
 Nafta Products Ltd., on the question of interpretation and
 construction of an arbitration clause, it is observed: (Bus LR p.
 1723, para 6) 6.``In approaching the question of construction, it is
 therefore necessary to inquire into the purpose of the
 arbitration clause. As to this, I think there can be no doubt.
 The parties have entered into a relationship, an agreement
 or what is alleged to be an agreement or what appears on
 its face to be an agreement, which may give rise to disputes.
 They want those disputes decided by a tribunal which they
 have chosen, commonly on the grounds of such matters as
 its neutrality, expertise and privacy, the availability of legal
 services at the seat of the arbitration and the unobtrusive
 efficiency of its supervisory law. Particularly in the case of
 international contracts, they want a quick and efficient
 adjudication and do not want to take the risks of delay and,
 in too many cases, partiality, in proceedings before a
 national jurisdiction." 150. In Narbheram Power and Steel Private Ltd., this Court while
 dealing with the arbitration clause in the insurance agreement, has
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 142 of 310 held that the arbitration clause should be strictly construed,
 relying on the principles of strict interpretation that apply to
 insurance contracts. These observations have been repeated in
 other cases. 151. What is true and applicable for men of commerce and
 business may not be equally true and apply in case of laymen
 and to those who are not fully aware of the effect of an arbitration
 clause or had little option but to sign on the standard form
 contract. Broad or narrow interpretations of an arbitration
 agreement can, to a great extent, effect coverage of a retroactive
 arbitration agreement. Pro-arbitration broad interpretation,
 normally applied to international instruments, and commercial
 transactions is based upon the approach that the arbitration
 clause should be considered as per the true contractual language
 and what it says, but in case of doubt as to whether related or close
 disputes in the course of parties' business relationship is covered
 by the clause, the assumption is that such disputes are
 encompassed by the agreement. The restrictive interpretation
 approach on the other hand states that in case of doubt the disputes
 shall not be treated as covered by the clause. Narrow approach is
 based on the reason that the arbitration should be viewed as an
 exception to the court or judicial system. The third approach is to
 avoid either broad or restrictive interpretation and instead the
 intention of the parties as to scope of the clause is understood by
 considering the strict language and circumstance of the case in
 hand. Terms like 'all', 'any', 'in respect of', 'arising out of' etc.
 can expand the scope and ambit of the arbitration clause.
 Connected and incidental matters, unless the arbitration clause
 suggests to the contrary, would normally be covered. 152. Which approach as to interpretation of an arbitration
 agreement should be adopted in a particular case would depend
 upon various factors including the language, the parties, nature of
 relationship, the factual background in which the arbitration
 agreement was entered, etc. In case of pure commercial disputes,

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 143 of 310 more appropriate principle of interpretation would be the one of
 liberal construction as there is a presumption in favour of one-stop
 adjudication. 153. Accordingly, we hold that the expression 'existence of an
 arbitration agreement' in Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, would
 include aspect of validity of an arbitration agreement, albeit the
 court at the referral stage would apply the prima facie test on the
 basis of principles set out in this judgment. In cases of debatable
 and disputable facts, and good reasonable arguable case, etc., the
 court would force the parties to abide by the arbitration agreement
 as the arbitral tribunal has primary jurisdiction and authority to
 decide the disputes including the question of jurisdiction and non-
 arbitrability." 1st Respondent's Contentions (Competition Commission of India)
(In Competition Appeal (AT) Nos. 1, 2 and 3 of 2022): Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 144 of 310 2019/09/688 to it (1st Respondent/CCI), through `Notification' dated

23.09.2019 (`Notice') as per Section 6 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002,

in Form I of Schedule II to the Competition Commission of India

(Procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating to

combinations) Regulations, 2011 (Combination Regulations). 121. It is represented on behalf of the 1st Respondent/CCI that the

`Proposed Combination', as sought to be notified by the `Appellant' to

the `1st Respondent/CCI' caused acquisition of 49% shares of the `FCL'

by the `Acquirer' (Transaction III), constituent steps among other things

concerning Intra-promoter group transactions between 1) `Future

Coupons Private Limited' 2) `Future Corporate Resources Private

Limited' (`FCRPL') and 3) `Future Retail Limited' (`FRL'). 122. It is the stand of the 1st Respondent/CCI that the `Appellant' /

`Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC', during the time of

`notifying the Combination', had stated that the intended ambit and

purpose of the `Combination' Viz., its investment in `FCPL' (2nd

Respondent) was in view of the `FCPL's potential' for `Long Term Value

Creation' and providing `Returns' on its `Investment'; and also with a

view to strengthen and augment the `Business of `FCPL'/2nd Respondent. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 145 of 310 123. On behalf of the 1st Respondent/CCI, it is submitted that the

`Appellant' / `Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC', had

mentioned that `it does not have any direct or indirect Shareholding' in

`FRL' and further that it would not acquire directly any rights in `FRL'

and was only acquiring `Limited Investor Protection Rights' via `FCPL'

(2nd Respondent) with a view to protect the value of its investment in

`FCPL'. That apart, it was also mentioned that rights were derived from

the rights granted to `FCPL' (2nd Respondent) in terms of the `FRL SHA',

which was negotiated by the `Promoters', `FRL' and `FCPL',

independent of the investment by `Appellant' in `FCPL' (2 nd

Respondent) and with a view to unlock value for `FCPL' (2 nd

Respondent). Therefore, a plea is taken on behalf of the `1 st

Respondent/CCI' that the whole attention, as represented, during the time

of notifying the `Combination' was `FCPL'/`2nd Respondent' and its

`Business' with `rights' in `FRL' being reflected as mere `Investor

Protection Rights'. 124. The stand of the 1st Respondent/CCI is that as per terms of `Part

V', description of the `Combination' of the abovementioned `Notice', the

`Combination' notified by the `Appellant' encompassed the

undermentioned three transactions: organization within the Future Group); and ii) Transaction II: Transfer of 13,666,287 shares of FRL held by
FCRPL (representing Two decimal Five Two Percent (2.52%) of the
issued, subscribed and paid-up equity share capital of Future Retail
Limited (FRL), on a Fully Diluted Basis) to FCPL (This was also
presented as being nothing but an internal re-organization within the
Future Group); and iii) Transaction III: The acquisition of the Subscription Shares
representing Forty Nine percent (49%) of the total issued, subscribed and
paid-up equity share capital of FCPL (on a Fully Diluted Basis) by the
Appellant, by way of a preferential allotment and coupon business with
a view to unlock value for FCPL as it showed potential for long terms
value creation and return on investment). 125. On behalf of the 1st Respondent/CCI it is brought to the notice of

this `Tribunal' that the Appellant's `Notice' among other things had

mentioned the following: ii) The parties had only executed FCPL SSA and FCPL SHA in
relation to the Combination. (As aforementioned, it was represented that
FCPL's potential for long term value creation and providing returns on
its investment, with a view to strengthen and augment the business of
FCPL). iii) The Appellant would acquire certain rights in terms of FCPL
SHA to protect its investment in FCPL. iv) Before the `Combination', `FCPL' had acquired equity
warrants of `FRL', Convertible into `Equity Shares' representing 7.30%
of the share capital of `FRL', within 18 months of the date of allotment
(Warrants Transaction). FCPL and FRL had entered into FRL SHA,
which sets forth inter se mutual rights and obligations of the parties as
shareholders. v) The Appellant had submitted a presentation captioned `Taj
Coupons - Business Plan for Five Years' in response to Item 8.8 of Form
I, which require the `notifying party' to disclose documents, material
(including reports, studies, plan, latest version of other documents, etc.)
considered by and/or presented to the board of directors and/or key
managerial person, in relation to the `proposed combination'. vi) Existing and contemplated business arrangement/agreements
between FRL and Amazon Seller Services Private Limited (ASSPL)
(Business Solutions Agreement, Prime Now Program Terms, Prime Now
FRL Amendment Agreement and Softlines FRL Agreement, referred to
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 148 of 310 in paras 62 to 66, pages 46 to 48 of the Notice at pages 54 to 56,
Convenience Compilation-II); agreement between Amazon Retail India
Private Limited (ARIPL) and Future Consumer Limited (Future
Consumer); Memorandum of Understanding among Amazon Pay
(India) Private Limited (APIPL) and FRL; collectively referred to as
Commercial Arrangements or Business Commercial Agreements. But it was mentioned that all these `Business Commercial Agreements'
were neither inter connected with, nor part of the `Combination'; or not
related to the `Combination' whatsoever. 126. The categorical version of the `1st Respondent/CCI' is that the

`Retail Business' of `FRL' and the `Appellant's interest in the same were

not represented to the 1st Respondent/CCI as being the `focus', `purpose'

and the `ambit' of the `Combination'. In this connection, it is projected

on the side of the 1st Respondent/CCI that pertaining to the rationale of

the `Combination', the `Appellant' had stated that it believed that `FCPL'

held potential for `Long Term Value Creation' and providing `Returns'

on its `Investment'. Moreover, it was mentioned that the `Appellant' had

determined to invest in `FCPL' with a view to strengthen and augment

the business of `FCPL' (including the Marketing and Distribution of

`Loyalty Cards', `Corporate Gift Cards' and `Reward Cards' to

Corporate Customers) and `unlock the value' in the Company. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 149 of 310 127. The Learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing for the 1st

Respondent/CCI brings it to the notice of this `Tribunal' that the 1 st

Respondent/CCI in regard to the considerations for the `Appellant's

Investment' in `FCPL', the nature and rationale of the rights, in respect

of the `Appellant' under `FRL SHA', raised some queries and that the

`Appellant' through letter dated 15.11.2019, again emphasized `FCPL'

to be the `attention of the Combination' and mentioned the following: (iii) The Commercial Arrangements have not been entered into pursuant
to the Combination and are not part of, or connected with, the
Combination in any manner whatsoever. (Para 72 at page 45 of the
submissions dated 15th November, 2019 of Appellant submitted in
response to query 2.21 of the letter dated 9th October, 2019 at Page 100,
Convenience Compilation-I. It was further asserted that though being
executed contemporaneously with FCPL SHA and FCPL SSA, these are
in no way connected with the Combination and each such commercial
agreement has been negotiated between its respective parties, in
isolation, and independent of the Combination. (vide para 45 at page 32
of the Appellant's submission dated 15.11.2019 in response to query 2.12
of the Letter dated 9th October, 2019 at page 97 of Convenience
Compilation-I). Furthermore, the Commercial Arrangements need not be
examined under the framework for the regulation of combinations in
terms of the Act and the Combination Regulations. (vide Para 4 of the
Appellant's submission dated 15.11.2019 furnished in response to query
2.5 of the Letter dated 24.10.2019 (Para 8.4 of the Impugned Order at
page 8 of Convenience Compilation-I). Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 151 of 310 128. The crystalline stand of the 1st Respondent/CCI is that the

`Combination Approval Process' requires the `notifying person' to

submit the true, correct and complete information as regards the actual

`Combination' pursued by the `parties' and to meet the requirements of

the ` Competition Act, 2002 and Regulations prescribed thereunder. Only

then, the 1st Respondent/CCI will evaluate the effects of a `Combination'

in a proper perspective. 129. For the aforesaid reason, according to the 1st Respondent/CCI, it

assessed the `Combination' in the context of `Appellant's Assertions' in

the `Notice' and later representations whereunder the disclosures

pertaining to the overlapping activities of Amazon's group and `FRL'

were stated to be merely by way of abundant caution as `FCPL' held

warrants issued by `FRL'. 130. Apart from that, in as much as `FRL SHA' and `BCAs' were not

notified as inter connected parts of the `Combination', the 1 st

Respondent/Commission had no possibility in directing the `Appellant'

to file form II in the subject. 131. Yet another contention of the 1st Respondent/CCI is that there was

no possibility for it to conduct `Combination Assessment' from the `point

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 152 of 310 of Strategic Alignments' between `FRL' and `Amazon group'. Continuing further, it is pointed out on behalf of the 1st Respondent/CCI

that the effect of Commercial Contracts entered into between `FRL' and

`Amazon group' entities in their normal course of `Business' would be

considerably different from `parties' envisaging `Strategic Alignments'

between their `Business' though `Strategic Investments'. Therefore, it is

the plea of the 1st Respondent/CCI that the `Regulatory Process' of

`Notification' and the nature of `Economic' and `Legal' enquiry would

differ in the two situations. 132. It is projected on the side of the 1st Respondent/CCI that resting

upon the Appellant's `Notice' and `Representations/Amplifications'

placed before the 1st Respondent/CCI, the `Combination' was approved

on 28.11.2019 and further that the `Competition Assessment' in the said

`Approval Order' dated 28.11.2019 was limited to the overlapping

`Business Activities' of the `Appellant', `FCPL' and the `Group Entities'

and was adjudged unlikely to cause any `Appreciable Adverse Effect' on

`Competition' in India, as per Para 9 of the `Impugned Order'. 133. At this juncture, it is pointed out by the 1st Respondent/CCI that in

the `Approval Order' dated 28.11.2019 given by the 1st Respondent/CCI

at paragraph 16, it was mentioned that the `Approval' was `contingent'

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 153 of 310 and shall stand `revoked' if at any time, the information provided by the

`Appellant' was found to be incorrect. In this connection, it is the stand

of the 1st Respondent/CCI the `Approval' ought not to be construed as

showering immunity in any manner from later proceedings before it for

the `Breach of other Sections of the Act'. 134. According to the 1st Respondent/CCI, the `Appellant' had

presented a complete false portrayal of the `Combination' which runs as

under: Response of the Appellant at Table below Para 3, Response to Query 2.1,

Response-II at Page 310 of Convenience Compilation-II (Vol. 2)]. 138. The Learned Counsel for the `1st Respondent/CCI' submits that the

`Appellant' as per Item 5.3 of Form I was required to clarify the

`Economic' and `Strategic Purpose' (Rationale) of the `Proposed

Combination' and that the `Appellant', in response had stated that its

rationale as FCPL's potential for long term value creation, returns on

investment and to strengthen FCPL's business of loyalty, gift and reward

cards (Para 30 and Statutory Summary under Regulation 13 (1A) of the

Regulations, Notice at Page 38 and 217 of Convenience Compilation-II

(Vol.1). Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 161 of 310 139. On behalf of the `1st Respondent/CCI', it is brought to the notice

of this `Tribunal' that the `Appellant' had accentuated that its decision to

invest was based on `FCPL's unique business model and the proposed

investment' in `FRL' was to add credibility to its Financial position (vide

paragraph 35 - 36, Response to Query 2.10, Response-I at Page 281 of

Convenience Compilation-II (Vol. 1)], (para 35, Response to Query 2.5,

Response to at Page 343 of Convenience Compilation-II (Vol.2). 140. The Learned Counsel for the `1st Respondent/CCI', points out that

in response to the `1st Respondent/CCI's query, based on `Media

Articles' and statements of Mr. Kishore Biyani, in regard to the

`Appellant's investment being strategic, the `Appellant' reiterated the

business model in `FCPL', interest in payment landscape in India (vide

Query 2.13 (c), RFI-I at Page 252 of Convenience Compilation-II (Vol. 1 read with) Para 51 and 53, Response to Query 2.13 (c); Response-I at

Page 287 and 288 of Convenience Compilation-II (Vol.1.)]. 141. Besides the above, according to the `1st Respondent/CCI', the

`Appellant' had stated that its investment in `FCPL' to be a financial

investment aligned with its investment focussed in India (vide paragraphs

39-41, Response to Query 2.6, Response-II at Pages 353-354 of

Convenience Compilation-II (Vol. 2)], and that the `FCPL' Group's

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 162 of 310 objective to invite investment was to partner with an investor with

experience in the payments market and a desire to `invest in the Business

for marketing and distribution of `Gift Cards' [vide Para 43, Response to

Query 2.6, Response-II at Page 354 of Convenience Compilation-II

(Vol.2)]. 142. According to the `1st Respondent/CCI', the `Appellant' had

misrepresented the scope and purpose of the `Proposed Combination' in

two additional manner (a) the Appellant was asked (vide Item 2.16 of

RFI - I) to state `FRL's business linkage with `FCPL' (vide page 252 of

convenience compilation (II) - Vol. (1) and that the `Appellant' had

responded by stating that `FRL' was related to `FCPL' merely as a

`Coupon Issuer' (vide Sr. No. 1, Table 3, Para 56, Response to Query

2.16, Response-I at Page 289 of Convenience Compilation-II (Vol.1)]. (b) the Appellant had identified certain over lapse between its affiliates

and FRL in the retail market, but stated that the same was provided only

as a `matter of abundant caution' [vide Para 80 of RFI-II at Page 379 of

Convenience Compilation-II (Vol.2.)]. 143. As a result, it is submitted on behalf of the `1st Respondent/CCI'

that the `Appellant' repeatedly asserted that its decision to invest in

`FCPL' was based on the `Long Term Potential' of `FCPL' and its

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 163 of 310 `Corporate Gift Cards', `Loyalty Cards' and `Reward Cards' business

and there was no `Strategic Intent' vis-à-vis `FRL' and its `Retail

Business'. For that reason, the `1st Respondent/CCI's `Approval Order'

and the underlying `Competitive Assessment' of the `Proposed

Combination' (vide paragraphs 13 and 14 of the `Approval Order') were

focussed solely on the aforementioned Coupons and Payments landscape

and not on `FRL' and its `Retail Business'. 144. It is the version of the `1st Respondent/CCI' that the `Appellant'

had `misrepresented', the character of the `Approval' granted to it, as per

the `Approval Order' before the numerous `Forums' like before the

`Hon'ble High Court of Delhi' and the `Arbitral Tribunal'. 145. Indeed, according to the `1st Respondent/CCI', the `Appellant' in

its `Appeal' dated 23.12.2021 (Before the `Hon'ble High Court of Delhi)

had submitted that its `Notice' demonstrated that the `Appellant' was the

ultimate Beneficiary of the Rights granted to `FCPL' under the `FRL

SHA'. Moreover, the `Appellant' had submitted that the FCPL SHA,

FCPL SSA and the FRL SHA were negotiated together with the

Appellant; and constitute a single integrated transaction that demonstrate

the Appellant's strategist interest in FRL's business (vide page 46 of the

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 164 of 310 Compilation of Relevant Extracts) and this was the misrepresentation

made by the `Appellant'. 146. According to the `1st Respondent/CCI', the `Appellant' however

before the `Arbitral Tribunal', in its statement of claim dated 04.07.2021

in the `Arbitration Proceedings' stated that the `1st Respondent/CCI' had

approved the `Proposed Combination' after considering the `Appellant's

consistent stand that `FRL', its Retails Assets were material inducement

for the investment (vide page 41 of the Compilation of Relevant

Extracts). 147. Thus, according to the `1st Respondent/CCI', contrary to the

factual position of `Approval' of the `Proposed Transaction', the

`Appellant' has misrepresented before various `Forums' that the

`Business Transaction' was notified to and approved by the `1 st

Respondent/CCI'. 148. It is represented on behalf of the `1st Respondent/CCI' that a `Show

Cause Notice' was issued to the `Appellant', highlighting the

fundamental discrepancies in respect of the `Proposed Transaction' and

`Business Transaction' (vide pages 402 to 405 of Convenience

Compilation-II (Vol.2). Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 165 of 310 149. The Learned Counsel for the `1st Respondent/CCI' submits that

because of the (a) Non Disclosure (b) Suppression (c) Misrepresentation

and (d) Failure to notify the `Combination' by the `Appellant', in the

`Impugned Order', the `1st Respondent/CCI' had found that the

`Appellant' had found (i) Suppressed and misrepresented material

particulars of the `Proposed Combination' (scope and purpose in respect

of Item 5.3, Form I and the nature of rights acquired under Item5.1.3. (Form I) (vide Para 48 of the Impugned Order at page 66 of Compilation

of Relevant Extracts) (ii) The Appellant had provided the `Taj Coupons

Presentation', in response to Item 8.8, Form I and suppressed the internal

communications (vide paragraphs 45, 47 of the Impugned Order - Page

65 of Compilation of Relevant Extracts) (iii) The Appellant had notified

`FRL SHA' and `Commercial Agreements' as part of the Combination

or in response to Items 5.1.1. and 5.1.2. of Form I (vide paragraphs57,

60, 69 and 75 of the Impugned Ord at Pages 68, 70, 74 of Compilation of

Relevant Extracts) (iv) The Appellant had failed to issue a single notice

covering all inter-connected steps of the `Combination' as is required by

Regulations 9 (5) and 5 of the Regulations. 150. Because of the `Appellant's aforesaid acts, the `1 st

Respondent/CCI' had kept the `Approval Order' in abeyance, while

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 166 of 310 directing the `Appellant' to make a `Fresh Notification' under Section 6

(2) of the Competition Act, 2002, in Form II which is a permissible, based

on the `1st Respondent/CCI's discretion, as per Regulation 5 (5) of the

Regulations, since the `Regulations' do not levy a mandatory threshold. 151. The Learned Counsel for the `1st Respondent/CCI' vehemently

puts forward a legal plea that the `Arbitral Tribunal' had committed an

`error' in exercising `jurisdiction' and `rendering a finding' on the ambit

and nature of the `1st Respondent/CCI's `Approval Order' of course,

behind the back of`1st Respondent/CCI'. In this regard, it is the stand of

the `1st Respondent/CCI' that `Disputes in rem' and the `Arbitral

Tribunal' could not and should not have given the findings as regards the

nature of `Approval' granted, as per decision of the `Hon'ble Supreme

Court' in Vidya Drolia and Others V Durga Trading Corporation,

reported in (2021) 2 SCC 1 (vide paragraphs 15, 46, 50, 54, 76, 77 and 78). 152. To lend support to the contention that merely furnishing the `1st

Respondent/CCI' with certain documents or making a reference to a

document in a foot note by the `Appellant' does not result in compliance

with the `Appellant's duty to notify and does not amount to `full

disclosure', the Learned Counsel for the `1st Respondent/CCI' refers to

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 167 of 310 the decisions in (a) Indian Hume Pipe Co. Lt. V Assistant Commissioner

of Income Tax and Others, reported in (2011) SCC Online Bom 1863,

vide paragraphs 6 and 9) (b) Sitara Diamonds Private Limited V ITO,

2013 SCC Online Bom 1221 (vide paragraphs 12 and 13) and (c) Garden

Finance Ltd. V Additional Commissioner of Income Tax, 2001 SCC

Online Guj 319, vide Paras 27 and 30). 153. On behalf of the `1st Respondent/CCI', an argument is advanced

that because of Appellant's repeated `Wilful Misrepresentations and

Omissions', it cannot be said that the ingredients of Section 6 (2) of the

Competition Act, 2002, read with Regulations were satisfied by the

`Appellant'. 154. Yet another argument, projected on the side of the `1 st

Respondent/CCI' is that the `Appellant' had committed (a)

`Misrepresentation' (b) `Fraud' and (c) `Suppression' and in Law, a

`Litigant' who has approached the Court with `uncleaned hands' is not

entitled to any `Relief' as per decisions of Hon'ble Supreme Court in (a)

Kishore Samrite V State of Uttar Pradesh, 2013 2 SCC 398, Para 37-38; (b) New Okhla Industrial Development Authority V Ravindra Kumar

Singhvi, 2022 SCC Online SC 186, Para 19). Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 168 of 310 155. It is projected on the side of the `1st Respondent/CCI' that

interpreting the profusion of `Residuary Powers' under Section 45 (2) of

the Competition Act, 2002, an interpretation ought to be provided, which

is in consonance with the objectives of aiming (a) to achieve highest

sustainable levels of economic growth (b) entrepreneurship (c) protection

of economic rights for just, equitable, inclusive, sustainable, economic

and social development (d) promotion of economic democracy and

supporting good governance. As per decision in Excel Crop Care Ltd. V

Competition Commission of India, reported in (2017) 8 SCC, Page 47

Paragraph 108. 156. On behalf of the `1st Respondent/CCI', a plea is taken that the `1st

Respondent/CCI' has the power to revoke an `Approval'/keep the same

in abeyance as per decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in (i) Sahara

India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. V SEBI & Another, at paragraphs

303.1, 304.1 and 304.2, reported in (2013) 1 SCC, Page 1 and (ii) in

Shankar Sharma V SEBI, 2001, SCC Online Securities Appellate

Tribunal. 157. It is the contention of the `1st Respondent/CCI' side that `1st

Respondent/CCI' has an ancillary and implied power to either suspend

or revoke an `Approval', as per Section 45 (2) of the Competition Act,

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 169 of 310 2002, and such powers are `inherent', permitting the `Statutory

Regulator' to satisfy the purpose of its `Parent Statute'. Therefore, it is

submitted on behalf of the `1st Respondent/CCI' that the `1st

Respondent/CCI's power to grant an `Approval' includes the power to

revoke the said `Approval' as per decisions (i) in State of Uttar Pradesh

V Dharmander Prasad Singh and Others, reported in AIR 1989 Supreme

Court Page 997 (ii) Ultratech Cement Limited, Combination Registration

No. C-2015/02/246, Para 12.1 and (iii) Malik Medical Hall V Union of

India, AIR 1975 Raj 108 and (iv) Tappers Co-operative Society, Maddur

V Superintendent of Excise, Mahaboobnagar, 1984 (2) APLJ (HC) 1. 158. It is represented on behalf of the `1st Respondent/CCI' that as per Section 45 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002, in term of the general

power, the 1st Respondent/CCI's power to undue an `Approval' granted

cannot be precluded as per decisions, reported in (i) Sahiti and Others V

Chancellor, Dr. N.T.R. University of Health Science and Others, reported

in (2009) 1 SCC Page 599 (vide paragraphs 26, 28 and 32) (ii) Arabinda

Das and Etc., V State of Assam & Ors., reported in 1980 SCC Online

Gau 13, Para 22. 159. In this connection, the Learned Counsel for the `1 st

Respondent/CCI' by adverting to the words occurring in the language of

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 170 of 310 Section 45 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002, `pass such orders as it deems

fit', points out that the same is to be interpreted widely, as per the purpose

of the Statute and in the teeth of the Competition Act 2002, Preamble,

i.e., (i) `to prevent' practices having adverse effect on Competition (ii)

`to promote' and sustain Competition in Markets, the `1 st

Respondent/CCI' does have the `power to undue' an `Approval Order',

as per Section 45 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002, and in this regard

cites the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court (i) in the matter of V.C.

Rangadurai V D. Gopalan and Others, reported in AIR 1979 Supreme

Court Page 281 (ii) Babulal Nagar V Shree Synthetics 1984 (Supp) SCC

Page 128, paragraphs 16 and (iii) Nagin Das Kesharlal Mehta and Ors. V

The Competent Authority, reported in AIR 1988 Guj Page 162. 160. In pith and substance, the contention of the `1st Respondent/CCI'

is that the `1st Respondent/CCI' has the requisite power to annul an

`Order' if the same was procured by means of `Fraud' or

`Misrepresentation' and as such, the `impugned order' is a correct one,

whereby and whereunder the `1st Respondent/CCI' has exercised its

power in this regard and a reference is made to the decisions of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in (i) Meghmala and Ors. V G Narasimha Reddy

and Ors, reported in (2010) 8 SCC Page 383 (vide paragraphs 28 to 33

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 171 of 310 and Para 36 (ii) Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation

(Gwalior) M.P. Ltd. V Commissioner of Income Tax, Gwalior, AIR 2018

Supreme Court (iii) United India Insurance Co. Ltd. V Rajendra Singh

and Ors., reported in AIR 2000 SC 1165 (iv) Indian National Congress

(I) V Institute of Social Welfare and Ors., reported in AIR 2002 SC 2158 (v) Rajendra Tripathi V Deputy Director of Education, 1976 (2) AIR 518

and (vi) Radhey Shyam Chaube and Ors. V District Inspector of Schools,

Jaunpur and Ors. 1978 Labour & Industrial Cases 191. 161. The Learned Counsel for the `1st Respondent/CCI' comes out with

a plea that Section 17 of the Indian Contract, Act, 1872 defines `Fraud'

to mean and include among other things, the suggestion of an untrue fact

as true by a person who does not believe it to be true, active concealment,

any other act fitter to deceive as long as it is done with an intent to

deceive. In this connection, the `1st Respondent/CCI' points out that the

`Appellant's conduct is that it had deliberately strived to `Misrepresent'

and `Suppress' material particulars and documents vis-à-vis the

`Proposed Combination' and in short, the `Appellant' had repeated the

same false statements in relation to ambit and purpose of the `Proposed

Combination', etc., even after being asked with the pointed follow up

questions as per RFI-I and RFI-II. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 172 of 310 162. The Learned Counsel for the `1st Respondent/CCI' takes a pivotal

stance that `Fraud' vitiates every solemn act and points out that

irrespective of the 1st Respondent/CCI's eventual conclusion on the

`Combinations' (`AAEC'), the `Fraud' played by the `Appellant' upon

the `1st Respondent/CCI' (Statutory Regulator) wholly vitiates the

`Approval' granted, as per the `Approval Order'. To fortify the 1 st

Respondent/CCI's stand, reliance is placed upon the Hon'ble Supreme

Court decisions in (i) Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam V Raj Kumar Rajinder

Singh, 2019 14 SCC 449, Para 68-76; (ii) Bhaurao Dagdu Parlkar V State

of Maharashtra , 2005 7 SCC 605, Para 9 - 16; (iii) Commissioner of

Customs V Aafloat Textiles India Pvt. Ltd., 2009 11 SCC 18, Para 11; (iv) Shrisht Dhawan V M/s. Shaw Brothers, 1992 1 SCC 534, Para 20; and (v) Venture Global Engineering LLC V Tech Mahindra Ltd. & Anr.,

2018 1 SCC 656, Paras 76-78. 163. The Learned for the `1st Respondent/CCI' submits that a cursory

reading of the ingredients of Section 20 (1) of the Competition Act, 2002,

makes it clear that the same and its proviso applied to the Commission/1 st

Respondent inquiring into a `Fresh Combination' `suo moto' or basis of

an information being filed in this regard. But the `Notice' filed by the

`Appellant' was a `Voluntary Notification', in the instant case, as per

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 173 of 310 Section 6 (2) of the Act, in fact, Section 6 (2) of the Competition Act,

2002, concerns with `voluntary reporting', mutually exclusive to Section

20 (1) of the Competition Act, 2002. Hence, it is the submission of the

`1st Respondent/CCI' side that the limitation imposed by the proviso to Section 20 (1) of the Competition Act, 2002, will not apply. 164. The other contention advanced on behalf of the `1 st

Respondent/CCI' is that the Appellant's `Fraud' will vitiate the

`Approval Order' together with the fact that it failed to notify the

`Proposed Combination' in its whole, meaning that the one year

limitation imposed by the proviso to Section 20 (1) of the Competition

Act, 2002, is `inapplicable', because of the fact that there is `no

Notification' and `no Approval'. 165. The Learned Counsel for the `1st Respondent/CCI' comes with an

emphatic plea that the `impugned order' of the `1 st Respondent/CCI'

cannot contain any analysis of the `Combinations' (`AAEC') because the

focus of `1st Respondent/CCI `inquiry' in the `impugned order' is not to

substantively `revaluate' the correct `Combination' (`AAEC'). In fact,

the `impugned order' rightly determines that the `Appellant' had not

supplied the correct and sufficient particulars, information and

documents. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 174 of 310 166. The Learned Counsel for the `1st Respondent/CCI' submits that a

`detailed analysis' of the `Combinations' (`AAEC') can only be made

afterwards, when the `Appellant' files Form II with correct, true and

complete/information/particulars/documents that disclose the `ambit'

and intended purpose of the `Combination'. 167. The Learned Counsel for the `1st Respondent/CCI' contends that

the `impugned order' in directing the `Approval' secured by the

`Appellant' shall be kept in abeyance, while granting the `Appellant' an

opportunity to file Form II afresh is `a correct and proper one' in the `eye

of Law' and therefore, prays for dismissal of the (i) Competition Appeal

(AT) No.1 of 2022; Competition Appeal (AT) No. 2 of 2022 and (iii)

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 3 of 2022. Contentions of 2nd Respondent (in Comptn. App (AT) No. 01 of 2022)
and Pleas of 3rd Respondent (in Comptn. App (AT) No. 03 of 2022
(`Future Coupons Private Limited'): 168. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent/Future Coupons

Private Limited (`FCPL') contends that as per Section 6 (2) of the

Competition Act, 2002 ("Act"), read with `Regulations 9 (4) and 9 (5)

of the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in Regard to the

Transaction of Business Relating to Combinations Regulations, 2011)

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 175 of 310 ("Combination Regulations") an `Acquirer' is required to notify all the

inter- connected steps and individual transactions, that form part of the

`Combination' to achieve the `ultimate intended effect' of the

`Combination'. In fact, the `Statutory Scheme' visualizes that a full, true

and fair disclosure must be made by the `Acquirer' at the stage of seeking

an `Approval' for the contemplated transaction. 169. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent submits that the `1st

Respondent/CCI' and the `Appellate Tribunal' dip into the numerous

pages of the documents read, `between the lines' of `Appellant/Amazon's

filings and form an independent assessment of the Appellant's ultimate

intent while ignoring the unequivocal and demonstrably the false

statements in its real filings - is topsy-turvy to the plain language, `object

and scheme of the Competition Act, 2002 ', and its `Regulations', made

thereunder. 170. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent points out that in the

present case, the `Combination' notified was clearly investment in to

`FCPL' by `Amazon' considering the growth potential of the `Corporate

Gift Cards / Coupons Business of `FCPL' and nothing more. In short, the

assessment of `AAEC' by the `1st Respondent/CCI' on any relevant

market is only for this `Combination' and the `Assessment' could not and

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 176 of 310 would not have been for a `Combination' which was in the mind of

`Amazon' but was not notified in its filings. Moreover, the Appellant's

assertion that the combination approved by the CCI is for its `single

integrated transaction' Viz., an investment in `FRL' for `Amazon's

strategic interest over assets' of `FRL' and `acquisition of strategic

rights' over `FRL' and also for `Business Collaboration Agreements'

defies any logic. To put it differently, the plea of the Learned Counsel for

the 2nd Respondent/FCPL is that an `Approval' can be given in respect of

the `Combination' for which an `Approval' is sought for and not

otherwise. 171. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent submits that failure

to give a `Notice' under Section 6 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002, is a

breach of `Law' and the `Combination' is `non est' in `Law'. 172. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent takes a plea that the

Appellant's filings in clear term mentions that `the (FCPL) SHA and the

SSA are the only transactional documents executed pursuant to the

Proposed Combination' and further that the paragraph 5.1.2 of the

`Notice Format' specifically requires the `Acquirer' to `disclose' any

other transactions that is/are inter-connected in the context of the

`Combination' being notified. Indeed, a reference to the `FRL SHA' and

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 177 of 310 `BCFs' is visibly absent in Appellant's response to this requirement in its

`Notice' dated 23.09.2019. 173. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent advances an

argument that the `Appellant' made it clear that `BCAs' were not part of

the `Proposed Combination' stating that these agreements were neither

inter-connected with, nor part of the `Proposed Combination' (vide

paragraph 5 of the Appellant's `Notice' dated 23.09.2019, page 47 of

Vol. (1) of Amazon's Convenience Compilation), which was reiterated

in its responses to the questions raised by the 1 st Respondent/CCI (vide

paragraph 44 of Response dated 15.11.2019 to RFI 2 dated 24.10.2019,

Page 769 - Vol. (3) Appellant's Convenience Compilation). 174. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent brings it to the notice

of this `Tribunal' that in regard to the `FRL SHA', the Appellant's filings

before the 1st Respondent/CCI stated that this agreement was entered into

in the course of `Intra-Promoter Group Transactions' (vide II of

Appellant's Notice dated 23.09.2019, Page 2, Vol. (1) of Appellant's

Convenience Compilation), to which, the parties were `FCPL' and

`persons' belonging to the `Biyani Group'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 178 of 310 175. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent points out that in

regard to a specific question posed by the 1st Respondent/CCI as to

whether it was gaining any direct right over `FRL' (vide Query 2.5 of

RFI 2 dt. 24.10.2019, Page 721, Vol (3) of Appellant's Convenience

Compliance), the Appellant reiterated that its investment was in to

`FCPL' and not `FRL' and that whatever rights were granted to it were

with respect to FCL's investment in `FRL' and can be exercised only

through `FCL' and not directly by it (`Amazon'). 176. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent comes out with a plea

that the `Appellant' further stated that `importantly, these rights have

been derived from the rights granted to `FCL' in terms of the `FRL SHA,

which was negotiated by the Promoters, FRL and FRL (sic., FCPL)

independent of the investment by the Investor in FCL and with a view to

unlock value for `FCL' (Para 37 of Response dt. 15.11.2019 to RFI 2 dt. 24.10.2019, Page 758, Vol. (3) of Appellant's Convenience

Compilation). 177. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent contends that the

`Appellant', with reference to the `Show Cause Notice' issued by the 1 st

Respondent/CCI endeavoured to overcome this statement by rewriting it,

claiming that various words were in-advertently left out in its earlier

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 179 of 310 response, and what was `independently negotiated was the `Warrants

Transaction' between the `Promoters', `FCPL' and `FRL' and not the

`FRL SHA' (vide paragraph 39 of the `Appellant's response to the `Show

Cause Notice', Page 1409 - 1410, Vol. (6) of Appellant's Convenience

Compilation). 178. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent submits that in

response to paragraph 8.8 of its Form I filing, the Appellant was required

to disclose any and all documents considered by the `Board of

Directors'/`Key Managerial Personnels' of its group entities in relation

to the `Proposed Combination' and that the `Law' requires that the

internal documents which were suppressed by the `Appellant' Viz., the

documents which brought out the intention of the `Acquirer' in making

the `Acquisition' be placed before the 1st Respondent/CCI, and further

that the `Appellant' had failed to comply with the requirement of `Law'

in Form or in substance. 179. According to the Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent the

`Appellant' disclosed a single document (vide Appellant's Notice dt. 23.09.2019, Page 100, Vol. (1) of Appellant's Convenience

Compilation), which was a `presentation' dealing with the Five Years'

Business Plan of `FCPL' that is of the `coupons business', which

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 180 of 310 emphasized that its `investments' was in to `FCPL' alone and that its

`intent' in entering in to the `Combination' was to further to the coupons

business of `FCPL' and that the 1st Respondent/CCI sought a full

disclosure (vide Query 2.1 of RFI 2 dt. 24.10.2019, Page 720, Vol. (3) of

Appellant's Convenience Compilation), because the filing of the

`Appellant' was found to be inadequate. 180. The contention of the Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent is

that the `Appellant' later, disclosed three additional documents (vide

paragraph 3 of Response dated 15.11.2019 to RFI-2 dated 24.10.2019 - page 724 Amazon's Convenience Compilation) and the two documents

related exclusively to `FCPL' and the third one was a `Resolution'

authorizing `Amazon Entities' to enter in to `FCPL SHA' and the `FCPL

SSA' and these documents reiterated the Appellant's assertion

throughout its filings it was making an investment into `FCPL' alone and

was acquiring rights only in `FCPL' alone. 181. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent points out that by

means of the Appellant's disclosures made pursuant to the `Orders'

issued by the `Arbitral Tribunal', a reading of the internal documents

(vide internal notes dt. 24.05.2018, page 1908, Vol. 9 of Appellant's

Convenience Compilation; 10.07.2018 (vide page 1910, Vol. 9 of

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 181 of 310 Appellant's Convenience Compilation and internal email dated

19.07.2019 (vide page 1918 - Vol. 9 of Appellant's Convenience

Compilation) indicates that the Appellant's actual intent in entering in to

the `Combination' was completely irreconcilable with what it had

mentioned in its filings, and that it was actively supressing the same. 182. According to the Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent these

documents bring out that the Appellant was investing into `FCPL' with a

view to acquire strategic rights in `FRL' and was treating `BCAs' as in

integral part of the `Combination'. Moreover, these documents, reveal

that `FCPL' was nothing more than an `SPV' and a `Conduit' and part of

the `Twin Entity Structure' through which investment was made in to

`FRL'. In fact, no value was attributed to `FCPL' by the `Appellant'. 183. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent adverts to the fact that

in the internal documents the value of the investment of Rs.1431 Crore

was arrived at only on the basis of the Regulatory Share Prices of `FRL'

with a 25% premium (for the `Strategic Rights' acquired) multiplied by

the indirect number of `FRL' shares which `Amazon' would be holding

through `FCPL'. Apart from this, the `Appellant' had submitted before

the `Tribunal' that the filing premised on active suppression,

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 182 of 310 misrepresentation and fraud ought not to be interfered with and the said

plea, according to the 2nd Respondent is an absurd one. 184. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent proceeds to point out

that the Regulation 14 clearly mentions that a `Notice' shall not be valid

unless it is complete and inconformity with the `Regulations' and `Sub- Regulation 2A) empowers the 1st Respondent/CCI to invalidate a

`Notice' when it comes to its knowledge that such `Notice' was not valid

as per the `Sub- Regulation 1 '. Besides this, in the `impugned order', the

1st Respondent/CCI had invalidated the `Notice' and directed the

`Appellant' to file a fresh `Notice'. 185. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent contends that the

Appellant's filing in its `Notice' made no reference to any direct

enforceable rights acquired by it, in `FRL', in its response to this

requirement. Per contra, the Appellant's filing reaffirmed that the

rationale for the `Combination' was `with a view to strengthen and

augment the `business of `FCL' (including the marketing and

distribution of loyalty cards, corporate gift cards and reward cards

corporate consumers)' and `unlock the value in `FCPL'. Therefore, it is

the plea of the 2nd Respondent that the `Appellant' had not only

suppressed but deliberately misrepresented the `ultimate intended effect'

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 183 of 310 of the `Combination' and committed a flagrant violation of Section 6 (2) read with Regulation 9 of the `Combination' Regulations. 186. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent submits that the

Appellant's submissions in regard to the supposed breach of orders of the

`Arbitral Tribunal' hearing a dispute initiated by the `Appellant' against

`FCPL', `FRL' and others was an in-appropriate one, before the

`Tribunal', because of the fact that they are irrelevant to the present

`Appeal' and each of the contentions is `subjudice' before the Hon'ble

High Court of Delhi in numerous pending proceedings in which the

`Appellant' and `FCPL' are parties. In short, the Appellant's endeavour

to advance a misconceived submissions in parallel proceedings before

the different Judicial Authorities is an `abuse of process' and to be

deprecated. 187. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent points out that the

identity / even an existence of a Complainant does not control the

exercise of 1st Respondent/CCI's jurisdiction, because the 1st

Respondent/CCI is enjoined to act even `suo moto' or based on

information in Public domain to prevent violation of the provisions of the Competition Act, 2002 . Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 184 of 310 188. It is represented on behalf of the 2nd Respondent that the

`Appellant' was provided with a full opportunity to respond to the

documents and in fact, it took full advantage of the same in submitting a

detailed oral and written submissions to the 1st Respondent/CCI on this

aspect (vide Appellant's Rejoinder submissions dated 12.12.2021, pages

1882 - 1884, Vol. (9) of Appellant's Convenience Compilation). 189. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent refers to the judgment

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the State of Uttar Pradesh V Sudhir

Kumar Singh (vide Civil Appeal No. 3498 of 2020 with Civil Appeal

Nos. 3499 and 3500 of 2020 dated 16.10.2020), wherein it is held that

`natural justice is a flexible tool in the hands of the judiciary to reach out

in fit cases to remedy injustice. The breach of the `audi alteram partem

rule' cannot by itself, without more, lead to the conclusion that prejudice

is thereby caused'. 190. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent contends that in the

instant case the `Appellant' was given the full opportunity and which was

availed by it and hence, the `Appellant' has not suffered any `prejudice'. 191. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent puts forward a plea that

the `power to grant an Approval`, carries with it the power to revoke such

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 185 of 310 an `Approval' as per the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

matter of Shree Sidhbali Steels Ltd. V State of U.P., (2011) 3 SCC 193; Indian National Congress (I) V Institute of Social Welfare, (2002) 5 SCC

685, particularly when it is evident that the `Approval' was obtained,

based on material omissions, suppression of material particulars,

misrepresentation and / or fraud. 192. According to the Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent Section

21 of the General Clauses, Act, 1897 expressly mentions that the `power

to issue orders', includes the `power to amend', `vary' or `rescind' such

orders, thereby obviating the requirement for a specific provision to such

effect in the Act. 193. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent contends that Regulation 14 of the Combination Regulation which specifies that a

`Notice' shall not be valid unless it is in conformity with the Regulations. In fact, Regulations 14 (2A), specifically envisages invalidation by the

1st Respondent/CCI of a `Notice' that it is not in conformity with the

Regulations. 194. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent points out that Section

45 (1) of the Competition Act, 2002, is expressly clarified to be without

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 186 of 310 prejudice to the power under Section 44 of the Act and the power under Section 45 (2) of the Act is stated to be without prejudice to the power

under Section 45 (1) of the Act. More importantly, it is the version of the

2nd Respondent that `no provision of the Statute' stands `breached' by the

exercise of the jurisdiction as per Section 45 (2) of the Competition Act,

2002, by the 1st Respondent/CCI. 195. It is the stand of the 2nd Respondent that a failure to notify, the

rights purportedly claimed by the Appellant/Amazon in `FRL', `FRL

SHA' and `BCFs' undoubtedly, constitutes a failure to disclose material

particulars as per Section 44 and 45 of the Competition Act, 2002, and in

this connection, a reliance is placed on the decision of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Harkirat Singh V Amrinder Singh, (2005) 13 SCC 511,

wherein at paragraph 51 and 52, it is observed as under: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 187 of 310 52. All 'material facts' must be pleaded by the party in support of
 the case set up by him. Since the object and purpose is to enable
 the opposite party to know the case he has to meet with, in the
 absence of pleading, a party cannot be allowed to lead evidence.
 Failure to state even a single material fact, hence, will entail
 dismissal of the suit or petition. Particulars, on the other hand, are
 the details of the case which is in the nature of evidence a party
 would be leading at the time of trial." 196. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent adverts to the `Order'

dated 21.11.2019 passed by the 1st Respondent/CCI (under Section 43A and 44 of the Competition Act, 2002, wherein at paragraphs 35 to 37, it

is observed and held as under: 197. The Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent takes a plea that the

`Appellant' had issued a `Notice' to the 1st Respondent/CCI on

23.09.2019 notifying the `Combination' and secured the `Approval' of

the CCI for the same, albeit based on material omissions, suppression of

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 189 of 310 material particulars, misrepresentation and fraud and in fact, Section

20(1) of the Competition Act, 2002, has no application in respect of a

`matter' where a `Notice' was filed. 198. While rounding up, the Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent

submits that the 1st Respondent/CCI had passed the `impugned order' and

penalised the `Appellant' correctly. Contentions of 3rd Respondent (in Comptn. App No. 01 of 2022) &
Submissions of Appellant in Comptn. App No. 03 of 2022
(`Confederation of All India Traders'): 199. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent' / `Confederation of

All India Traders' - submits that the Competition Appeal No. 3 of 2022

filed by the `Appellant' (`3rd Respondent' - (`Confederation of All India

Traders'-in Competition Appeal No. 1 of 2022), is maintainable and that

the `Appellant / 3rd Respondent' (`CAIT') has the locus to appear before

the 1st Respondent/CCI. 200. It is contended on behalf of the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' that it is a

necessary and proper party to the present proceedings and in fact, it has

a substantial interest in the outcome of the proceedings. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 190 of 310 201. In this connection, it is pointed out on behalf of the `3rd Respondent

/ CAIT' that in Writ Petition (C) 12889 / 2021 filed by the 3 rd Respondent

/ CAIT (`Appellant' in Comptn. App AT No. 3 of 2022) that the Hon'ble

High Court of Delhi by an `Order' dated 16.11.2021 had directed the `1st

Respondent / CCI' to decide the issue raised in the `1st Respondent /

CCI's `Show Cause Notice' dated 04.06.2021, `within a period of two

weeks' from today' and that `such decision shall be taken by CCI, after

giving an opportunity of hearing to the stakeholders'. Furthermore, the

`Appellant / Amazon's' `Special Leave Petition' against the `Order' of

the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi dated 16.11.2021 was dismissed by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. 202. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' comes out

with a plea that the `Appellant / Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings

LLC' had deceived the `1st Respondent / CCI' and secured an `Approval

Order' and illegally entered the `MBRT Sector' in India, in violation of

the `Foreign Direct Investment Laws of India'. 203. According to the Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT,

the relevant `Regulatory regime', governing `Amazon's investment

through the `Proposed Combination' as notified to the `1 st Respondent /

CCI' is: 204. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' contends that

the three Agreements, Viz., `FRL SHA', `FCPL SSA' and `FCPL SHA'

purportedly consisting of a `single integrated transaction' for an

investment of Rs.1431 Crores by Amazon `indirectly' in `FRL' are in

substance and in reality. an investment in MBRT and directly contrary to

the `FEMA Regulations'; 205. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' points out

that the Amazon's contentions that `FRL' was the object of attention and

purpose of Amazon's investment would make the investment directly

contrary to the `FEMA Regulations' and `PN2' as it effectively would

have entered the MBRT sector. 206. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' submits that

the `Amazon's (and its Affiliates) by way of its investment (directly or

indirectly) in `FRL' cannot list any `Retail Products' on the Amazon e- commerce market place in India in view of the FEMA Regulations and

PN2. As such, Amazon (and its Affiliates) could not enter into the

`BCAs'. 207. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' contends that

the Amazon's internal emails now exhibit that it adopted a convoluted

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 193 of 310 structure to enter MBRT and deceive statutory authorities in order to skirt

PN2 and the FEMA Regulations. Furthermore, the `Amazon' had not

invested in `FCPL' (or `FRL' as it now claims) as a `Foreign Portfolio

Investor' (`FPI). Even otherwise, an `FPI' cannot invest in and exercise

any form of control over an `Indian Entity' - which is exactly the

situation in the present case `as Amazon is seeking to exercise and control

the management decisions of `FRL'. 208. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' proceeds to

point out that the Amazon's pleas before the 1st Respondent/CCI directly

contradict the representation made by it to the `Court's' and the `Arbitral

Tribunal' and its own internal documents, among other things that the

`FRL SHA', `FCPL SHA' and `FCPL SSA' constituted a `single

integrated transaction' that `Amazon' was really investing in `FRL' and

not `FCPL' and that the `BCAs' were an integral part of the `Proposed

Combination'. 209. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' submits that

the 1st Respondent/CCI being the `Statutory Authority' cannot approve a

transaction that is an `illegality'. The 1st Respondent/CCI is to safeguard

that all `Combinations' for which an `Approval' is sought from the

`Commission' are legal and not in `violation of any law'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 194 of 310 210. On behalf of the `3rd Respondent / CAIT', it is represented that the

`Amazon' had knowingly made a `False Statement' and withheld the true

nature of the `transaction' and stated that `apart from the approval of the

Hon'ble Commission, no other regulatory approvals will be required

from any other government department / authority for consummating the

`Proposed Combination' since it was investing in `FCPL' and not `FRL'

[Amazon's Response dated 15.11.2019 @ Pgs. 254-305 of CCI

Convenience Compilation]. 211. The other contention of the 3rd Respondent / CAIT is that had the

`Appellant' disclosed the exact/true nature of `transaction' notified all the

`relevant Agreements' as part of the `Proposed Combination' and

claimed approval thereof from the 1st Respondent / CCI, then CCI might

have obtained an `Opinion' from the `Enforcement Directorate' or `such

Authority' `in relation to the `Combination', as per Regulation 34 of the

`Combination Regulations'. 212. According to the Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT',

Regulations 9 (4) and (5) of the `Combination Regulations' require the

`Acquirer' to notify each of the `transactions' that are part of the

`Proposed Combination' and further that the mere disclosure of the

`Agreements' does not amount to the fulfilment of the requirements of

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 195 of 310 the Regulations and in this regard, the relevant decisions relied on by the

3rd Respondent/CAIT are: & Anr. (2018) 6 SCC 549, (ii) Sterlite Industries (Combination Registration No.: C-
 2012/03/45; order dated 12.04.2012, (iii) Tech Mahindra (Combination Registration No.: C-2012/03-
 48, order dated 26.04.2012. 213. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' brings it to

the notice of this `Tribunal' that the `Regulation 9 (4) of the Combination

Regulation was amended on 01.07.2015 to introduce the `words', shall

be filed by the `Parties' to the `Combination' - thereby imposing a

`Mandatory Obligation' to notify `all Series or Small Individual

Transactions which are inter-connected'. 214. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' points out

that from the representations made by `Amazon' in its notice and later

responses at several places where it made `False Statements' (vide

paragraphs 9, 35, 37, Internal Pgs : 40, 43, 71, Paragraphs 36 and 21 of

the Response dated 15.11.2019 to the 1st Respondent/CCI at Pages 254 - 305 and Pages 309 - 383 of Part II of 1st Respondent/CCI's Convenience

Compilation. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 196 of 310 215. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' contends

that in the `Approval Order' the 1st Respondent/CCI had notified the

`Proposed Combination' (which had not included `FRL SHA' and

examined the `Proposed Combination' in regard to the coupons / gift

cards activities of `FCPL'. Moreover, the 1st Respondent/CCI vide

Paragraphs 11 to 13 had not defined the `relevant market' in regard to

`FRL' because `Amazon' is not investing in `FRL' (vide `Approval

Order' Annexure A-19 of 3rd Respondent / CAIT's Appeal, Page 769). 216. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' submits that

`Amazon' had suppressed its `strategic rights' deliberately over `FRL' so

that it can start `deep discounting' products (similar to its illegal practices

on its website Amazon.com) at FRL's brick and mortar stores which will

have a direct anti-competitive impact on `small traders' and `kirana store

owners', including the members of CAIT. Apart from that, it is submitted

by the 3rd Respondent / CAIT that the Amazon's control over `FRL' will

negatively impact `small traders' who supply `FRL' as `Amazon'

through its `BCAs' will ensure that those `small traders' will be replaced

by `manufacturing units' owned by it. 217. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' points out

that the `BCAs' between Amazon's Affiliates and `FRL' would also

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 197 of 310 ensure that only `Future Retail' will sell its products on Amazon's

website which would not only negatively impact `small traders' who also

sell their products on `Amazon's website', but would also be contrary to

`Indian Foreign Exchange Regulations'. In this connection, the Learned

Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' adverts to the decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan V Gotan Lime Stone

Khanij Udyog (P) Ltd., (2016) 4 SCC, Page 469, wherein at paragraph

36, it is held that such `arrangements' or `devices' cannot be used by

`unscrupulous parties' to `circumvent the law'. 218. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' contends

that Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, enjoins that; ``the Power to issue, to include power to add to, amend, vary or rescind
 notifications, orders, rules or bye-laws. Where, by any [Central Act] or
 Regulations a power to [issue notifications,] orders, rules or bye-laws is
 conferred, then that power includes a power, exercisable in the like
 manner and subject to the like sanction and conditions (if any), to add to,
 amend, vary or rescind any [notifications,] orders, rules or bye-laws so
 [issued]." 219. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' submits that

`if a person' misrepresents and obtain any `Approval' or `Permission' on

the basis of the such misrepresentation, the `Authority' granting such

`Approval' or `Permission' has the implicit `Power' to `revoke' the

`Approval' or `Permission'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 198 of 310 220. In this regard, the Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT'

adverts to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sardar

Govindrao V State of Madhya Pradesh in AIR 1965, SC 1222, wherein

at paragraphs 9 and 10, it is observed as under: It will be noticed presently that Section 5 of the Act also follows
 the same scheme and the rules do no more than emphasise the
 special character of sub-section (3) of Section 5 . Power has been
 conferred on Government to make some other lands free from land
 revenue so that sometimes a grant of money or pension and
 sometimes exemption from land revenue may be resorted. It could
 hardly have been intended that sub-section (3) of Section (5) was
 to be rendered nugatory in its purpose by the operation of the
 discretion conferred by sub-section (2). The two sub-sections have
 to be read separately because though the word "may" appears in
 both of them that word in sub-section (3) takes its meaning from
 an obligation which is laid upon Government in respect of certain
 institutions and persons if the stated conditions are fulfilled. It is
 impossible to think that in the case of a religious, charitable or
 public institution which must be continued or in the case of
 descendants of former ruling Chiefs Government possessed an
 absolute discretion to refuse to make a grant of money or pension
 for their maintenance or upkeep even though they satisfied all the
 conditions for such a grant and were deserving of a grant of money
 or pension. The word "may" in Section 5(3) must be interpreted as

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 199 of 310 mandatory when the conditions precedent, namely, the existence
 of a religious, charitable or public institutions which ought to be
 continued or of the descendants of a ruling Chief, is established.
 The words "may pass such orders as it deems fit" in sub-section
 (2) mean no more than that Government must make its orders to
 fit the occasion, the kind of order to be made being determined by
 the necessity of the occasion. As stated in Maxwell on the
 Interpretation of Statutes: This is an instance where, on the existence of the condition
 precedent, the grant of money or pension becomes obligatory on
 the Government notwithstanding that in Section 5 (2) the
 Government has been given the power to pass such orders as it
 deems fit and in sub-section (3) the word "may" is used. The word
 "may" is often read as "shall" or "must" when there is something
 in the nature of the thing to be done which makes it the duty of the
 person on whom the power is conferred to exercise the
 power. Section 5 (2) is discretionary because it takes into account
 all cases which may be brought before the Government of persons
 claiming to be adversely affected by the provisions of Section 3 of
 the Act. Many such persons may have no claims at all though they
 may in a general way be said to have been adversely affected by Section 3 . If the power was to be discretionary in every case there

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 200 of 310 was no need to enact further than sub-section (2). The reason why
 two sub-sections were enacted is not far to seek. That Government
 may have to select some for consideration under sub-section (3)
 and some under Section 7 and may have to dismiss the claims of
 some others requires the contenment of a discretion and sub-
 section (2) does no more than to give that discretion to
 Government and the word "may" in that subsection bears its
 ordinary meaning. The word "may" in sub-section (3) has,
 however, a different purport. Under that sub-section Government
 must, if it is satisfied that an institution or service must be
 continued or that there is a descendant of a former ruling Chief,
 grant money or pension to the institution or service or to the
 descendant of the former ruling Chief, as the case may be. Of
 course, it need not make a grant if the person claiming is not a
 descendant of a former ruling Chief or there is other reasonable
 ground not to grant money or pension. But, except in those cases
 where there are good grounds for not granting the pension,
 Government is bound to make a grant to those who fulfil the
 required condition and the word "may" in the third sub-section
 though apparently discretionary has to be read as "must".
 The High Court was in error in thinking that the third sub- section
 also like the second conferred an absolute discretion. 10. The next question is whether Government was justified in
 making the order of April 26, 1955? That order gives no reasons
 at all. The Act lays upon the Government a duty which obviously
 must be performed in a judicial manner. The appellants do not
 seem to have been heard at all. The Act bars a suit and there is all
 the more reason that Government must deal with such cases in a
 quasi-judicial manner giving an opportunity to the claimants to
 state their case in the light of the report of the Deputy
 Commissioner. The appellants were also entitled to know the
 reason why their claim for the grant of money or a pension was
 rejected by Government and how they were considered as not
 falling within the class of persons who it was clearly intended by
 the Act to be compensated in this manner. Even in those cases

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 201 of 310 where the order of the Government is based upon confidential
 material this Court has insisted that reasons should appear when
 Government performs curial or quasi-judicial functions (see Hari
 Nagar Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Shyam Sunder Jhunjhunwala -
 06.10.1964). The High Court did not go into any other question at
 all because it rejected the petition at the threshold on its
 interpretation of Section 5 (3) . That interpretation has been found
 by us to be erroneous and the order of the High Court must be set
 aside. As the order of Government does not fulfil the elementary
 requirements of a quasi-judicial process we do not consider it
 necessary to order a remit to the High Court. The order of the State
 Government must be set aside and the Government directed to
 dispose of the case in the light of our remarks and we order
 accordingly. The respondents shall pay the costs of the appellants
 in this Court and the High Court. Appeal allowed." 221. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' takes a stand

a `Party' cannot to be allowed to get away from the consequences of the

`Suppression', `False Statements' and `Misrepresentations' and further

that it makes a no difference whether an `Order' of is a `Court' or `an

`Administrative' or `Statutory Authority', and refers to the Judgement of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in A.V. Papayya Sastry V Govt. of A.P.,

(2007) 4 SCC Page 221 at Spl. Page 231, wherein at paragraphs 22 and

23, it is observed as under: 222. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' relies on the

decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Hamza Haji v. State of Kerala ,

reported in 2006 7 SCC at Page 416; Spl Pages 427 and 428, wherein at

Paragraph 25, it is observed as under: In this case, the appellant had purchased an extent of about 55
 acres in the year 1968 under Document No. 2685 of 1968 dated 2-
 6-1968. He had, even according to his evidence before the Forest
 Tribunal, gifted 5 acres of land to his brother under a deed dated
 30-1-1969. In addition, according to the State, he had sold, out of
 the extent of 55.25 acres, an extent of 49.93 acres by various sale
 deeds during the years 1971 and 1972. Though, the details of the
 sale deeds like the numbers of the registered documents, the dates
 of sale, the names of the transferees, the extents involved and the
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 203 of 310 considerations received were set out by the State in its application
 for review before the High Court, except for a general denial, the
 appellant could not and did not specifically deny the transactions.
 Same is the case in this Court, where in the counter affidavit, the
 details of these transactions have been set out by the State and in
 the rejoinder filed by the appellant, there is no specific denial of
 these transactions or of the extents involved in those transactions.
 Therefore, it stands established without an iota of doubt as found
 by the High Court, that the appellant suppressed the fact that he
 had parted with almost the entire property purchased by him under
 the registered document through which he claimed title to the
 petition schedule property before the Forest Tribunal. In other
 words, when he claimed that he had title to 20 acres of land and
 the same had not vested in the State and in the alternative, he bona
 fide intended to cultivate the land and was cultivating that land, as
 a matter of fact, he did not have either title or possession over that
 land. The Tribunal had found that the land was a private forest
 and hence has vested under the Act. The Tribunal had granted
 relief to the appellant only based on Section 3(3) of the Act, which
 provided that so much extent of private forest held by an owner
 under a valid registered document of title executed before the
 appointed day and intended for cultivation by him and that does
 not exceed the extent of the ceiling area applicable to him under Section 82 of the Kerala Land Reforms Act, could be exempted.
 Therefore, unless, the appellant had title to the application
 schedule land and proved that he intended to cultivate that land
 himself, he would not have been entitled to an order under Section
 3(3) of the Act. It is obvious that when he made the claim, the
 appellant neither had title nor possession over the land. There
 could not have been any intention on his part to cultivate the land
 with which he had already parted and of which he had no right to
 possession. Therefore, the appellant played a fraud on the Court
 by holding out that he was the title-holder of the application
 schedule property and he intended to cultivate the same, while
 procuring the order for exclusion of the application schedule
 lands. It was not a case of mere perjured evidence. It was
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 204 of 310 suppression of the most vital fact and the founding of a claim on a
 non-existent fact. It was done knowingly and deliberately, with the
 intention to deceive. Therefore, the finding of the High Court in
 the judgment under appeal that the appellant had procured the
 earlier order from the Forest Tribunal by playing a fraud on it,
 stands clearly established. It was not a case of the appellant merely
 putting forward a false claim or obtaining a judgment based on
 perjured evidence. This was a case where on a fundamental fact of
 entitlement to relief, he had deliberately misled the Court by
 suppressing vital information and putting forward a false claim,
 false to his knowledge, and a claim which he knew had no basis
 either in fact or on law. It is therefore clear that the order of the
 Forest Tribunal was procured by the appellant by playing a fraud
 and the said order is vitiated by fraud. The fact that the High Court
 on the earlier occasion declined to interfere either on the ground
 of delay in approaching it or on the ground that a Second Review
 was not maintainable, cannot deter a Court moved in that behalf
 from declaring the earlier order as vitiated by fraud." 223. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' cites the

decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in United Insurance Company v. Rajendra Singh, reported in (2000) 3 SCC 581 at Spl. Page: 587, wherein

at Paragraph 16, it is observed as under: 224. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' falls back

upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Indian Bank v. Satyam Fibres (India) Pvt. Ltd., reported in (1996) 5 SCC 550 at Spl. Page: 563, wherein at Paragraph 23, it is observed as under: Mammen Mammen (1955 Ker LT 459). The court has also the
 inherent power to set aside a sale brought about by fraud practised
 upon the court (Ishwar Mahton v. Sitaram Kumar (AIR 1954 Pat 450), or to set aside the order recording compromise obtained by
 fraud ( Bindeshwari Pd. Chaudhary v. Debendra Pd. Singh ( AIR
 1958 Pat 618), Tara Bai v. V.S. Krishnaswamy Rao (AIR 1985
 Kant 270)." 225. The Learned Counsel for the `3rd Respondent / CAIT' points out

that in the `impugned order', findings on `Fault Statements',

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 206 of 310 `Suppression', and `Misrepresentations' were rendered by the 1st

Respondent / CCI and that the `Commission' had no other option but to

revoke the `Approval Order', but the `Commission' had directed the

keeping in `abeyance' of the `Approval Order'. The Competition Act, 2002 : 226. The Competition Act, 2002 , does not specify any qualification for a

person who desires to file an information under Section 19 (1) (a) of the Act. A mere glance of the simpliciter language of Sections 18 and 19 read with 26

(1) of the Competition Act, 2002 , shows that it cannot be inferred by an Homo- sapien that the 1st Respondent/CCI has the power to refuse a relief claimed

from investigation into the allegations concerning the breach of Section 3 and 4 of the Act. Further, the Scheme of the Competition Act is an inquisitorial one

and the 1st Respondent/CCI in appropriate case. Agreement: includes a new service; (c) "unit" or "division", in relation to an enterprise,
 includes-- (i) a plant or factory established for the production,
 storage, supply, distribution, acquisition or control of
 any article or goods; (ii) any branch or office established for the provision
 of any service; Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 208 of 310 (i) "goods" means goods as defined in the Sale of
 Goods Act, 1930 (8 of 1930) and includes-- (A) products manufactured, processed or mined; (B) debentures, stocks and shares after allotment; (C) in relation to goods supplied, distributed or
 controlled in India, goods imported into India;" Indeed, for determining whether a market constitutes `a relevant market'

for the purpose of the Competition Act, 2002 , the `Competition

Commission' shall have due regard to the `relevant geographic market'

and `relevant product market' as per Section 19 (5) of the Competition

Act. Really speaking, the `relevant market' comprises a `product' or

`group of products and geographic area', which these products are

produced or traded. As a matter of fact, the `term' `relevant market' is

used with a view to identify the `products' and `enterprises' which are

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 209 of 310 directly competing in business. `Relevant Market' is a `market', where a

`competition' takes place. Relevant Geographic Market: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 210 of 310 Relevant Product Market: 235. The `term' `turnover' occurring in Section 27 (b) and its proviso

of the Competition Act, 2002 , pertain to the `Goods', `Produces' and

`Qua' which `finding of violation of Section 3 and / or Section 4 was

recorded' and while imposing `penalty', the `Commission' cannot take

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 211 of 310 average turnover of last three preceding financial years' products in

respect of other Goods or Services of an `Enterprise' or `Association of

Enterprise' or a `Person' or `Association of Persons'. Combination: 236. To be noted, that Section 5 of the Competition Act, 2002, sees at

acquisition of control, shares, voting rights or Assets while determining

if a transaction is to be notified to the Commission under Section 6 of the

Act. As a matter of fact, if a particular transaction or a series of

transactions falls within the purview of `Combination', it is obligatory to

report the same to the Competition Commission of India, as per Section

6 of the Competition Act, 2002. In fact, the definition of `Group', relies

on the understanding of `control'. 237. In terms of the `Scheme of the Act', `Enterprises' proposed to enter

into `Combination' will have to notify the `Commission' before making

an entry into such `Combination'. 238. In Competition Law practice, `Control' is considered as a matter

of `degree'. However, all `degrees' and forms of control nevertheless

constitute `control' as per decision in Telenor ASA (India)

Communications Pvt Ltd and Telenor South Asia Investments Pte Ltd

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 212 of 310 (decided on 03.07.2018). Further, it is pointed out that the definition of

`control' is not `indicative of any right', which if present, may `confer'

`control'. 239. It is to be pointed out that the `Combination Regulations', 2011,

have clarified that any `reference' to `combination' shall mean a

`Proposed Combination' shall mean `combination' or `combined entity',

if the `combination' has come in to effect, as the case may be. Further,

`parties to the combination', mean `persons' or `enterprises' entering in

to a `combination' and shall include the `combined entity' if the

`combination' come in to effect. 240. The `term' `Merger' or `Amalgamation' is not defined under the Competition Act, 2002 . The word `Amalgamation' has no definite

meaning. In Halsbury's Law of England, `Amalgamation' is defined as

`blending of two or more existing `Undertakings' into `one Undertaking'

the `Shareholders' of each blending company become substantially the

`Shareholders' in the company, which is to carry on the blended

undertaking. 241. That apart, `Amalgamation' contemplates a `state of things' under

which two companies are so joined as to form a `third entity' or `one

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 213 of 310 company' is absorbed into and blended with `another company', vide Re

Walker's Settlement (1935) 1 Ch 567. 242. The task of `Merger' bringing under unified control over the

`enterprises' that was previously independent and this is accomplished

either through `Acquisition' of `stock' or through `purchase of physical

Assets'. Regulation of Combination ( Section 6 of The Competition Act,
2002): 243. It is pointed out that the `Competition Assessment' of a

`Combination' in words of two `counter factual market scenarios', Viz. with or without `Combination'. In fact, the `Commission' considers the

relevant factors mentioned in Section 20 (4) of the Competition Act,

2002, which among other things includes `market share of the parties to

the Combination', `entry barriers', `extent of vertical integration' and

`economic strength of parties' and `determines the effect of `Proposed

Combination' on `Competition' in `relevant market'. 244. It is significantly pointed out that `Regulation 9 of the Competition

Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the Transaction of Business

relating to Combinations) Regulations, 2011', pertains to an `obligation'

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 214 of 310 to file the `Notice'. In fact, Regulation 9 (1) of the Combination

Regulations proceeds as under: Provided that in case of a company, apart from the persons
 specified under clause (c) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 11 of
 the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations,
 2009, Form I or Form II may also be signed by [any person duly
 authorised by the (Company)]. (2) In case the enterprise is being acquired without its consent, the
 acquirer shall furnish such information as is available to him, in
 Form I or Form II, as the case may be, relating to the enterprise
 being acquired: Provided that in case of a company, apart from the persons
 specified under clause (c) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 11 of
 the Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations,
 2009, Form I or Form II may also be signed by [any person duly
 authorised by the Company]. (4) Where the ultimate intended effect of a business transaction is
 achieved by way of a series of steps or smaller individual
 transactions which are inter-connected or inter-dependent on each
 other, one or more of which may amount to a combination, a single
 notice, covering all these transactions, [shall be filed by the
 parties] to the combination. (5) The requirement of filing notice under regulation 5 of these
 regulations shall be determined with respect to the substance of
 the transaction and any structure of the transaction(s), comprising
 a combination, that has the effect of avoiding notice in respect of
 the whole or a part of the combination shall be disregarded." 245. If the parties to a `Combination' failed to file `Notice' under sub- section (2) of Section 6 of the Competition Act, 2002, the `Commission'

may under sub-section (1) of Section 20 of the Act, upon its own

knowledge or information relating to such `Combination' inquire into

which such a `Combination' has caused or is likely to cause an

`Appreciable', `Adverse' effect on `Competition' in India. 246. Furthermore, the `Notice' of `Proposed Combination' under Section 6 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002, is to be given prior to

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 216 of 310 `consummation of Combination'. As a matter of fact, Ex Post Facto

`Notice' is not envisaged as per Section 6 (2) of the Competition Act,

2002. It is important that the Competition Commission of India receives

prior Ex ante Notification of `Proposed Combination' in order for it, to

effectively prevent ante-competitive `Acquisitions' and `Mergers'. Inserted Regulation: 247. The newly inserted Regulation 16A (1) enjoins the parties to the

`Combination' to withdraw and refile the `Notice' (either filed

voluntarily or under CCI's directions) with permission of the

`Commission' before the issuance of `Show Cause Notice' under Section

29 (1) of the Competition Act, 2002. By virtue of this amendment, the

parties can address the material defects / deficiencies in `Notice' without

facing an invalidation by the `Commission'. 248. Dealing with `Notice' to the `Combination' as per Section 6 (3) of

the Competition Act, 2002, once mandatory `Notice' is given under Section 6 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002, the Competition Commission

of India is to deal with the same as per provisions of Section 29 , 30 & 31 of the Competition Act, 2002. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 217 of 310 249. Added further, the `prepayment of consideration in part' or `full

amounts' to `consummation of a part of a Combination' and `amounts to

violation of an obligation' contained in ` Section 6 (2) read with Section

6 (2- A) of the Competition Act, 2002 . Indeed, the Competition

Commission of India may `suo moto' issued a `Show Cause Notice' to

the `Parties' to its `Combination' under Section 29 of the Act for an

`investigation of Combination'. In this connection, it is not out of place

for this `Tribunal' to make a pertinent mention that if the `Commission'

deems it necessary to provide an `opportunity of being heard to the

Parties' to the `Combination' before deciding to deal with the case in

accordance with the provisions contained in Section 31 of the

Competition Act, 2002, the `Secretary' shall convey its `directions' to the

said `Parties' to `appear' before it by giving a `Notice' of such period as

directed by the `Commission' [vide Competition Commission of India

(procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating to

Combinations) Regulations, 2011)]. After the enquiry, the `Competition

Commission' may `approve' the `pro-combination' or may `propose

modification' to the `Combination' (known as `Remedies') or may

`opine' that the `Proposed Combination' be not given effect to. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 218 of 310 250. It is to be remembered that the `Competition Commission of India'

may pass an `Order' for `Approval', where the Commission is of the

opinion that the `Combination' does not or is not likely to have an

`AAEC'. Besides this, the Competition Commission of India is likely to

approve `Combination' where there is no horizontal or vertical overlap

or even there is an overlap, there is either an insignificant overlap or the

market is fragmented to contain `multiple prominent players' and the

`combined market share' of the `Proposed Combination' is insignificant. Duties of 1st Respondent/Competition Commission: 251. The aim of 1st Respondent/CCI is the Institution of a system of

undistorted competition which is commensurate to the promotion of the

interest of the Consumers. Further the exercise of power as per Section

18 of the Competition Act, 2002, is subject to the other provisions of the Competition Act, 2002 . In fact, the preamble of the Competition Act,

2002 and Section 18 of the Competition Act, 2002, mandates the

`Commission' to `protect the Consumers interest and to ensure that the

Consumers surplus is not adversely impacted'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 219 of 310 Purview of Section 19 of the Competition Act, 2002: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 220 of 310 254. In a given case, the Commission may not act upon information

filed under Section 19 (1) (a) of the Competition Act, 2002, but may `suo

moto' take cognisance of facts constituting violation of Section 3 (1) or Section 3 (4) of the Act, 2002 and direct an investigation. 255. It is to be pointed out that Section 19 of the Competition Act, 2002,

originally stated that `receipt of complaint' from any person, consumer

or their association or trade association. In fact, the expression `receipt

of a complaint' (with effect from 20.05.2009 was substituted by Act 39

of the 2007) with an expression `receipt of any information' in such

manner, by virtue of amendment brought in 2007. In fact, Regulation 10 of Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009, does

not require an informant to state how he is personally aggrieved by

violation of the Competition Act . As per Regulation 25 of the

Competition Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009. The

public interest must be foremost in the consideration of the `Commission'

when an `Application' is made in writing. A reading of Section 35 of the

Competition Act, 2002, in which an earlier term `complainant' or

`defendant' was substituted by the expression `person' or `an Enterprise'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 221 of 310 Inquiry into `Combination': 256. Section 20 (4) of the Competition Act, 2002, prescribes factors that

1st Respondent/CCI will take into account to decide whether a

`Combination' will have or is likely to have `AAEC' in relevant market. Procedure for Investigation of `Combinations': 257. Section 29 of the Competition Act, 2002, lays down a detailed

procedure for an investigation of `Combination' if the `Commission' is

of the opinion that any `Combination' is likely to cause, or has caused an

Appreciable Adverse Effect on Competition within the relevant market

in India. Also that, Section 29 of the Competition Act, 2002, prescribes

a time bound procedure for an `Investigation' of `Combinations'. Further, the 137 days does not cover the time taken by the `Director

General' in submitting his report or the `Competition Commission' for

hearing the matter orally, if necessary, and passing `appropriate orders'. 258. It is up to the `Competition Commission of India' after considering

the facts on records, details provided in `Notice' and `Responses' filed

by the `Parties' may form a prima facie opinion that the `Proposed

Combination' is likely to cause an Appreciable Adverse Effect within

`relevant market' in India. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 222 of 310 Procedure in case of `Notice' under Section 6 (2) : 259. Section 30 of the Competition Act, 2002, envisages that `where

any `Person' or `Enterprise' has given a `Notice' under ` Section 6 (2) of

the Act', the `Commission' shall examine such `Notice' and form its

prima facie opinion as mentioned in sub- section 1 of Section 29 and

proceed as per provisions contained in that Section. Orders of `Commission' on certain `Combinations': 260. Section 31 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002, enjoins that where

the `Commission' is of the opinion that the `Combination' has, or is likely

to have, an Appreciable Adverse Effect on Competition, it shall direct

that the `Combination' shall not take effect. 261. Section 31 (3) of the Competition Act, 2002, points out that, if the

`Commission' approves the `Combination' with modification, the

Commission's order approving the `Combination' shall specify that

terms and conditions and the time for all `Constituent activities' giving

effect to the `Proposed Combination' and shall call for a `Compliance

Report'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 223 of 310 Imposition of `Penalty: 262. Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002, speaks of the power of

the `Commission' to levy penalty for non-furnishing of information and

the `penalty' shall be imposed by the `Competition Commission' upon

any `Person' or `Enterprise' who had failed to issue `Notice' to the

`Commission' as per Section 6 (2) of the Act, extending to 1% of the total

turnover or the assets, whichever is higher of such `Combination'. Penalty for making false statement, etc.: 263. Section 44 of the Competition Act, 2002, deals with the aspect of

penalty being imposed upon any `Person' being a party to a

`Combination' for making `false statements' or `omission' to furnish

`material information' and such penalty shall not be less than rupees fifty

lakh, but it may extend to rupees one crore, as may be determined by the

`Commission'. Penalty for offences in relation to furnishing of information: 264. Section 45 of the Competition Act, 2002, relates to the `penalty

when a person furnishes or is required to furnish any particulars,

documents or information makes any statement or furnishes any

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 224 of 310 document which he knows or has reason to believe to be false in any

material particular or omits to state any material fact knowing it to be

material, etc., and such person shall be punishable with fine which may

extend to rupees one crore as may be determined by the `Commission'. 265. This `Appellate Tribunal' has heard the Learned Senior Counsels,

the Learned Counsels and the Learned Additional Solicitor General,

appearing for the respective `Parties' and noticed their contentions. Appraisal in Competition Appeal (AT) No. 1 of 2022: 266. At the outset this `Tribunal', points out that the `1st

Respondent/Competition Commission of India' had received a `Notice',

on 23.09.2019 in terms of Section 6 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002,

filed by the `Appellant'/`Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC'

(`Amazon/Acquirer') and this `Notice' was filed in carrying out the

execution of `Share Subscription Agreement' (`SSA') and `Shareholders

Agreement' (`SHA') both dated 22.08.2019. Furthermore, these

`Agreements' were entered into `Entities', the `Appellant'

(`Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC'), `Future Coupons

Private Limited' (`FCL / Target') and the Promoters of `FCL'). Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 225 of 310 267. It comes to be known that under `Part V' `Description of the

`Combination' of the `Notice' dated 23.09.2019, the `Combination'

informed by the `Appellant'/`Amazon' encompassed the three following

transactions', which are to the undermentioned effect: 268. At this juncture, this `Tribunal' relevantly points out that in the

`Notice' of `Amazon' dated 23.09.2019, it was mentioned that the

obligation of `Appellant' / `Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC'

was depending upon the accomplishment of Transaction I and II. Continuing further, it was made mention of that neither the Transaction I

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 226 of 310 nor Transaction II was to be notified to the `1st Respondent / CCI' on a

standalone basis being visualised concerning a parent and its subsidiary. In respect of Transaction III, it was mentioned that (on a standalone basis)

benefits from `target exemption' was below the verge specified for such

commitment, in view of the fact that the `Value of Assets' and `Turnover'

of `FCPL / 2nd Respondent' as on 31.03.2019. Besides these, the

`Appellant' had mentioned that in the event of the `1st Respondent/CCI'

pondering that the `Combination' to be notifiable, the `Appellant' will

notify the `Combination' as per Section 6 (2) of the Competition Act,

2002, read with Regulation 9 (4) of the Competition Commission of India

(procedure in regard to the transaction of business relating to

Combination) Regulations, 2011. 269. It cannot be gainsaid that in the `Notice' of the `Appellant' dated

23.09.2019 as per Section 6 (2) of the Act in Form I of Schedule II of the

Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard to the transaction

of business relating to Combination) Regulations, 2011. The `Appellant'

had mentioned that the parties had entered into `FCPL SSA' and `FCPL

SHA' as regards the `Combination'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 227 of 310 270. According to the `Appellant'/`Amazon' the `rights' proposed to be

acquired by the `Investor' in terms of `SHA' to protect its investment in

`FCL' is mentioned in Table 3 in brief, which runs as under: ii. Section 6 .22 Right to request The Investor may request FCL to
 appointment of an appoint an Investor Director as an
 observer to the observer on the board of the
 board of directors Material Entities who may attend
 of any Material (but not vote in) board proceedings,
 Entity (as defined receive all information that is
 in the SHA). provided to the members of the

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 228 of 310 board of all Material Entities (as
 defined in the SHA). iii. Section 8 Consideration of Items identified in Schedule IX and
 read with Investor Protective Schedule X have a direct bearing on
 Schedule IX matters (as defined Investor's investment in as FCL.
 and X in the SHA) and Accordingly, items identified in the
 Investor Protective Schedule IX can only be considered
 Notice Matters (as and by FCL's Board or a committee
 defined in the SHA) thereof: Items Identified in Schedule X can
 only be considered by FCL's Board
 or shareholders if a prior notice of
 at least fifteen (15) business days
 has been served to the Investor and
 the Investor Directors. iv. Section 9 Reporting The Investor has the right to seek
 Information and and examine financial reports and
 Access Rights other books and records
 maintained by FCL, and its
 subsidiaries. v. Section 13 Consent and Prior written consent from the
 compliance in Investor would be required before:
 relation to (a) FCL decides implements any on
 Material Entity or matter under the FRL SHA which
 matters. requires FCL's consent; (b) FCL decides to decline, recuse
 itself, or not subscribe to its pro- rata entitlement in relation to
 issuance of securities by a Material
 Entity; (c) Any updates to the list of
 "Restricted Persons" and its
 communication to FRL under the
 FRL SHA; and (d) Assignment of the rights and
 obligations of FCL and the
 Promoters (as defined in the SHA)
 under the FRL SHA. vi. Section 14 Transfer of Retail FCL and the Promoters have
 Assets (as defined agreed not to undertake any sale,
 in the SHA) divestment, transfer, disposal, etc.
 of retail outlets across various
 formats operated by FRL (which is
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 229 of 310 an integral part of the business
 conducted by FRL) except as
 mutually agreed (in writing)
 between the Promoters and the
 Investor, or contained in the FRL
 SHA or any commercial agreement
 between a Material Entity (as
 defined in the SHA) and an affiliate
 of the Investor. FCL and the
 Promoters have also agreed not to
 transfer, encumber, divest or
 dispose of these retail Assets (as
 defined in the SHA), directly or
 indirectly, in favour of a mutually
 agreed list of Restricted Persons (as
 defined in the SHA) 271. Further, the `Appellant'/`Amazon' in the `Notification' dated

23.09.2019 (Form I) in Table 4, under the caption `Milestones to the

Proposed Combination' had mentioned as under: Promoters and FCL in relation to the acquisition
 of the Subscription Shares
 Execution of SHA amongst the Investor, August 22, 2019
 Promoters and FCL 272. Moreover, the `Appellant'/`Amazon' had stated that the Proposed

Transaction I and Proposed Transaction II are conditions precedent to

Proposed Transaction III. Therefore, after receipt of the approval of the

Hon'ble Commission, in order to effectuate Proposed Transaction III, the

Promoter Group will carry out Proposed Transaction I and Proposed

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 230 of 310 Transaction II. Under the SSA, the Long Stop Date is 180 days from the

date of execution, i.e., 18 February 2020 (or such date as may be mutually

agreed between the parties ( Section 5 .1 of the SSA). 273. Indeed, the `Appellant' / `Amazon' in the `Notification' dated

23.09.2019 (Form I) under the subject `Economic and strategic purpose

(including business objectives and rationale for each of the parties to the

combination and the manner in which they are intended to be achieved)

of the combination, had described the following: 274. In fact, in the Notification dated 23.09.2019 (Form-I) under the

Caption `Non-compete obligation, if any: Duration, scope in terms of

persons, product(s) / service(s) and territory(ies) and corresponding

justification', the `Appellant'/`Amazon' had mentioned the following at

paragraph 34 : 275. Apart from the above, while responding to queries No. 6 & 7, the

Appellant had furnished the details of the Parties to the `Combination'

and gave a brief description being undertaken by the Parties concerned. The Appellant had also described the relevant market (The product and

geographic market) along with a brief description of retail market in India

(vide pages 44-108 of Convenience Compilation - II (Vol.I) of `1st

Respondent/CCI'). Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 232 of 310 276. It transpires that the `Appellant'/`Amazon' had provided a

presentation `Taj Coupons' - `Business Plan' for five years (while

responding Item 8.8 of Form-I) under the Head `Document material

(including reports, studies, plan, latest version of other documents), etc.

considered by and/or presented to the board of directors and/or key

managerial person of the parties to the combination and/or their relevant

group entities, in relation to the proposed combination'. 277. Also that, at Annexure 30 `Summary of the `Proposed

Combination' in terms of Regulation 13(1A) of Competition

Commission of India (Procedure in regard to transaction of business

relating to Combinations) Regulations, 2011 as amended by the

Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard to transaction of

business relating to combinations) Amendment Regulations, 2019

[vide Pgs 217-218 of 1st Respondent/CCI's Convenience Compilation-II

(Vol.1)] under the caption `B' - The nature and purpose of Combination

at S.No.5, it is mentioned as under: Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 233 of 310 278. The `1st Respondent/CCI' as per Regulation 14 - `Scrutiny of

Notice' of the Competition Commission of India (Procedure in regard to

the transaction of business, etc.) Regulations, 2011, had addressed the

communications dated 09.10.2019 and 24.10.2019 to the

`Appellant'/`Amazon' to delete specified information disparity in the

`Notice'. 279. The `Appellant'/`Amazon' in its `Reply'/`Response' dated

15.11.2019 (To the Query No.2.13(c) raised by the `1st Respondent/CCI'

in its Letter dated 09.10.2019, (vide 1st Respondent/CCI's Convenience

Compilation, Page 288 (Part II) at paragraph 53) Viz., "According to

media articles and statements of Mr. Kishore Biyani, the investment by

Amazon is strategic to become a part of the ecosystem. Please elaborate" 280. To the Query No. 2.5 of the letter dated 24.10.2019 raised by the

`1st Respondent/CCI' addressed to the `Appellant'/`Amazon' to the effect

"As per the notice, Acquirer will get certain rights over the FRL. You are

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 234 of 310 required to provide details of shareholding (directly/indirectly),

affirmative rights/veto rights/rights not available with ordinary

shareholders in FRL or rights with respect to FRL being acquired by

Amazon and strategic and or economic rationale for such rights.", the

`Appellant'/`Amazon' had submitted its `Response' dated 15.11.2019

mentioning that; (1) "the unique business model of FCPL addresses an existing gap
 in the payments landscape in India, thereby making it a strong and
 sound investment opportunity for Amazon (which holds similar
 existing investments in entities engaged in business activities
 within the payments market in India), and
 (2) while FCPL has a strong growth potential, in the short term,
 to add credibility to its financial position, it has invested in and
 proposes to invest in FRL, which is a publicly traded company with
 strong financials and futuristic outlook." 281. To put it precisely, the `Appellant'/`Amazon' had mentioned that

it does not have any direct or indirect shareholding in `FRL' and further

it would not acquire directly any rights in `FRL' and also claimed that

`Commercial Arrangements' were not entered into pursuant to the

`Combination' and were not part of, or connected with the `Combination'

in any manner whatsoever. Moreover, the `Appellant'/`Amazon' stated

that `Commercial Arrangements' need not be examined under the

framework of the Regulation of Combinations as per the Competition Act and Combinations Regulations. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 235 of 310 282. Viewed in this background, the `1st Respondent/CCI' had issued

the `Approval Order' on 28.11.2019 as per Section 31 (1) of the

Competition Act based on the `Competition Assessment' of the

overlapping business activities of `Amazon', `FCPL' and their `group

entities' and after arriving at the opinion that the `Combination' is not

likely to cause any appreciable adverse effect on `competition' in India. In fact, the `1st Respondent/CCI' had left the exact `relevant market

definition' being left open. 283. It is evident that the `2nd Respondent/FCPL' (in Comptn. App (AT)

No. 1 of 2022) had addressed a Letter dated 25.03.2021 to the `Secretary

of the 1st Respondent/CCI', averring among other things to the following

effect beginning from paragraphs 8 to 19 (vide Pages 1377 to 1382 - Vol.VI of Convenience Compilation of the `Appellant'/`Amazon'): a. Amazon invested Rs. 1400 crores in FCPL, the real object
 of which was fund FRL, and
 b. Amazon through the maze of agreements obtained a
 contractual right to prevent FRL from doing business with
 Amazon's competitors. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 236 of 310 9. If this intent - viz. to invest Rs.1431 crores primarily to
 obtain a call option in case of change in regulation, and until then
 to prevent FRL from entering into a contract with Amazon's
 competitors- was disclosed to the CCI, it is highly unlikely that the
 CCI would have allowed the transaction. 10. Amazon instituted proceedings before the Emergency
 Arbitrator under the Rules of the Singapore International
 Arbitration Centre ("SIAC") against FCL, FRL and the
 promoters of FRL alleging, inter alia, that the Scheme is in breach
 of the respective obligations of FCL, FRL and the promoters of
 FRL under the FRL SHA, FCPL SHA and FCPL SSA. The
 proceedings have been instituted on the basis, inter alia; (i) That the foundation of the relationship between Amazon
 and the promoters of FRL "was and remains the special and
 material sights available with FCPL with respect to FRL's
 business and its Retail Assets". Amazon's investment in
 FCPL was made on the "express understanding" that it
 would have rights in FRL. (ii) Amazon's investment was made on the "primary
 inducement" that it will have special and material rights in
 FRL. [NOTE: (i) and (ii) are directly contrary to the statement
 of Amazon before the Hon'ble Commission that its
 investment is in the gift card business of FCPL and not the
 retail assets of FRL, and that its rights over FRL are only
 intended to protect its investment in FCPL] (iii) The FCPL SHA, FCPL SSA and FRL SHA, constitute a
 "single integrated transaction" and the interplay amongst
 the three agreements demonstrates the "unequivocal
 intention and interest of the parties was to have one
 integrated understanding". [NOTE: This is ex facie contrary to Amazon's statement
 before the Hon'ble Commission that the negotiation of the
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 237 of 310 FRL SHA by FCPL, FRL and its promoters was
 independent of the Investment by Amazon in FCL] (iv) Amazon's Investment in FRL (indirectly) is permitted
 under the extant FDI regulations. [NOTE: Any investment by a foreign entity in the MBRT
 sector is prohibited under the FDI Regulations. Amazon
 submitted to the Hon'ble Commission that it was not
 investment in the retail assets of FRL as it was prohibited
 from doing so under the FDI Regulations and therefore,
 FRL's business would not constitute a "relevant market".
 Amazon's submission now is contrary to that submitted to
 the Hon'ble Commission]. A copy of the application filed by Amazon before the Emergency
 Arbitration (without the annexures thereto) is annexed hereto as
 Annexure "6". On the basis of these submissions, the Emergency
 Arbitrator passed an order dated 25.10.2020 restraining FRL and
 its promoters from pursuing the Scheme. A copy of the order dated
 25.10.2020 passed by the Emergency Arbitrator is annexed hereto
 as Annexure "7". 11. Various proceedings have been instituted by, against and
 between Amazon and FRL before the SIAC, Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court, the NCLT and the Hon'ble Supreme Court wherein,
 Amazon has continually reiterated its submissions set out
 hereinabove. 12. A perusal of the various submissions made by Amazon
 before the Hon'ble Commission on the one hand and the SIAC and
 Indian Courts establishes that Amazon has made misleading
 representations as to its intentions when it sought the permission
 of the CCI. A chart setting out the various submissions before the
 Hon'ble Commission and each of the Courts and arbitral tribunal
 is annexed hereto as Annexure "8". Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 238 of 310 13. The contrast and contradiction in the stand of Amazon
 before the Hon'ble Commission and the Emergency Arbitrator
 (whose decision according to Amazon is an order of a Court) is
 further perpetuated by Amazon's attempts to exercise of control
 over FRL on the basis that the agreements FCPL SSA, FCPL SHA
 and FRL SHA have to be read together as a single integrated
 transaction. The Delhi High Court on 21.12.2020 ruled that if the
 agreements are read together, Amazon acquires control over FRL
 and the transaction becomes illegal falling foul of FEMA FDI
 Rules. This is the reason that Amazon represented to the Hon'ble
 Commission that the FRL SHA was "independently" negotiated
 and Amazon does not exercise any control or influence over FRL.
 It is now evident that this representation was false. 14. As brought out above, Amazon has now taken a categorical
 position in the proceedings before the Emergency Arbitrator and
 the constitutional courts in India that its indirect rights over FRL
 are strategic and material in nature. Such intent of Amazon to have
 strategic and material influence over FRL was not disclosed to the
 Hon'ble Commission in the notice filed under Section 6(2) of the
 Competition Act. Rather, Amazon had represented before the
 Hon'ble Commission that the said rights are only for the limited
 purpose of investor protection. Had Amazon made the correct
 representation to the Hon'ble Commission that it had strategic and
 material interests over FRL and that the agreements have to be
 read together (as against the representation that FRL SHA was
 independent of the investment made by Amazon in FCPL), the
 Hon'ble Commission would have perhaps not acted on the Notice
 (filed as a Form I), and as a responsible regulator, would have
 forwarded the reply and the copy of the agreements to DIPP and
 Enforcement Directorate for necessary action. 15. In the proceedings before the Emergency Arbitrator and the
 constitutional courts in India, Amazon has not claimed that its
 rights under the agreements to restrain the transfer of the Retail
 Assets of FRL are sought to be exercised to protect its investment
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 239 of 310 in FCPL. Instead, it has made a brazen admission, in complete
 disdain to the representations made before the Hon'ble
 Commission, that its rights qua the Retail Assets of FRL are
 strategic and material in nature. These representations before the
 arbitrator and the constitutional courts bring out that Amazon
 does not consider the sale of FRL's assets to RRVL to result in any
 diminution of the value of investment made into FCPL, a case
 which could perhaps warrant exercise of Amazon's rights for
 investor protection. On the contrary, the rights were sought to be
 exercised for strategic commercial reasons to foster the business
 interest of Amazon, at the cost of exit of FRL and loss to the
 shareholders of FRL and FCPL. In simple terms, Amazon is now
 exercising rights to protect its business interest and not to protect
 its investment as a shareholder as no such occasion has arisen. If
 Amazon had intended to use the indirect rights over FRL to protect
 or secure its market position/business in an anticompetitive
 manner or otherwise, instead of such rights being used only for
 protecting the value of its investment in FCPL, such intent is a
 material fact which should have been disclosed to CCI. Such intent
 / basis of the FCPL transaction would have led to a different
 understanding of the nature and scope of the proposed
 combination and accordingly, would have had a material impact
 on the competition assessment fundamentals. 16. If one knowingly portrays a strategic intent as a mere
 investor protection rights whereas its real intention in entering
 into an arrangement is to acquire control over another entity, it
 constitutes a false representation and a suppression of material
 facts. 17. Further, Amazon is seeking to perpetrate and enforce anti-
 competitive conduct by seeking to restrain the Scheme on the basis
 of these purported strategic rights. Amazon knows fully well that (i) it cannot invest and acquire shares in FRL and take it out of
 bankruptcy; (ii) Amazon wants FRL to go into bankruptcy to

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 240 of 310 secure its strategic interest by curtailing the growth of entities
 which Amazon considers to be its competitors. 18. A party seeking any approval of a combination must provide
 a declaration vide Form I of the Combination Regulation that all
 the information provided to the Hon'ble Commission is "true,
 correct and complete to the best of its knowledge" and that it is
 aware of the provisions of Sections 44 and 45 of the Competition
 Act. Sections 44 and 45 of the Competition Act provide for strict
 penalties for the making of any false statement or submission of
 any false information. Amazon has provided such a declaration by
 way of its Notice." 19. This Hon'ble Commission has taken a consistent view that
 any submission of false information to the Hon'ble Commission
 would attract the penalties provided under Sections 44 and 45 of
 the Competition Act. In Ultratech (Order dated 12.03.2018), the
 Hon'ble Commission stated; 12.1`` S. 44 SCN issued to UltraTech relates to omission to file
 material information and making an incorrect statement in the
 Notice. The parties to a combination are required to provide
 complete and correct information on all the aspects asked for in
 the designated form for filing of notice. The competition
 assessment undertaken and consequent decision of the
 Commission is primarily based on the information provided in the
 notice. Once the Commission has passed an order, it has no
 control on the subsequent consummation or non-consummation of
 a transaction and may only be left with the option of revoking the
 decision in the event it comes to know that the information was
 either incomplete or incorrect ......" (Emphasis supplied)

and finally prayed for necessary action being taken against the

`Appellant'/`Amazon' for the commission of offences under Section 44 Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 241 of 310 and 45 of the Competition Act, 2002 , read with paragraph 16 of the Order

dated 28.11.2019 passed by the 1st Respondent/CCI in Combination

Registration C/2019/09/688, including the revocation of `Approval'

granted to the `Combination': Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 245 of 310 291. It is the version of the `Appellant/Amazon' in its `Response' that

all material particulars relating to the `Combination' and which were

relevant for `Assessment' by the `Commission' were revealed in the

`Notice' and in latest submissions dated 15.11.2019 Viz., (i) Information

rights over business activities of FRL; (ii) all commercial agreements

involving FRL were given effect to only after the approval of the

Respondent No.1; and (iii) the details required as per Form I relating to

relevant market and competition assessment, based on the business

activities of the parties and affiliates; 292. It is projected on the side of the `Appellant/Amazon' in its

`Response' that there were no incorrect statements given in the

`Notification' and that `FRL SHA' was fully divulged as forming the

background to Transaction III and therefore, it does not constitute a

`Combination'. Also that the `1st Respondent/CCI' had noticed that the

presence of `FRL' and the `Affiliates' of the `Acquirer' was not to

augment any competition concern. 293. In the instant case, although it is contended on behalf of the

`Appellant/Amazon' that the ambit of combination was disclosed to the

`1st Respondent/CCI' and that extensive disclosures were made in the

`Notification' focussing on `FRL' and its B2C, `Competitive

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 246 of 310 Assessment' presented in the `Notification' was resting upon the

assumption of complete integration between the Appellant's affiliates

and `FRL' and its `Affiliates', details of `rights' accruing to the

Appellant's Affiliates under `BCAs' were furnished along with the

rationale behind these rights and justifications for the exclusivity

`covenants' mentioned in the `BCAs' were also provided, there is no two

opinion of the vital fact that the `obligation' to file a `Notice' for any

`Proposed Combination' is binding in character, in the considered

opinion of this `Tribunal'. 294. Further, the `Combination' notified was an investment into

`FCPL' (2nd Respondent) by the `Appellant/Amazon', bearing in mind

the likely growth aspect of the corporate gift cards / coupons business of

`2nd Respondent/FCPL'. It must be borne in mind that `an Approval' is /

can be accorded only in respect of the `Combination' for which `an

Approval' is claimed and not otherwise, as opined by this `Tribunal'. 295. It cannot be brushed aside that if an individual had entered into or

intend to enter into any `Transaction' being a `Combination', within the

`purview of Section 5 of the Competition Act, 2002', then that `person'

compulsorily enjoined to file a `Notice' as per Section 6 (2) of the

Competition Act, 2002 coupled with the concerned `Combination
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 247 of 310 Regulations, 2011'. No wonder, an individual who had not notified a

`Combination' as per the ingredients of the Section 6 (2) of the

Competition Act, 2002, cannot press into service the ingredients of Section 6 (2- A) of the Act . 296. It is not out of place for this `Tribunal' to make a significant

mention that the `Appellant/Amazon' had mentioned at paragraph 44

(vide its `Response' dated 15.11.2019 to RFI1 dated 09.10.2019 - Page

682 Vol.3 of Appellant's Convenience Compilation), which is extracted

as under: I of `Appellant/Amazon's Convenience Compilation) that `BCAs' were

not part of the `Proposed Combination' mentioning that these

Agreements were `neither inter-connected with', nor `part of the

Proposed Combination'. Fraud: Indeed, the `Fraud' vitiate the most solemn proceedings in any civilized

system of jurisprudence. A concealment of `material fact' in entirety

amounts to `Fraud', as per Section 17 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. In the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Shrisht Dhwan (Smt) v. M/s. Shaw Brothers, reported in 1992 1 SCC at Page 534, wherein it is

observed and held that in `law' `Fraud' is an `element' which clouds the

reason that the person defrauded cannot form a rationale judgment of the

effect of `Transaction' upon his interests. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 249 of 310 300. An underlying intent to constitute `Fraud' is to deceive another

person and to induce him to enter the `contract' and it must be by the

suggestion as a fact which is not true or by the active concealment of a

fact by one having knowledge or belief of the fact. 301. In `Fraud', an act must be confined to the acts committed by a

person to a `contract' with an intention to deceive another or his `Agent'

or to induce him to enter into a contract. Misrepresentation: 302. Section 18 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, defines

`Misrepresentation' meaning and including; (1) "the positive assertion, in a manner not warranted by the
 information of the person making it, of that which is not true,
 though he believes it to be true; (2) any breach of duty which, without an intent to deceive, gains
 an advantage to the person committing it, or any one claiming
 under him, by misleading another to his prejudice or to the
 prejudice of any one claiming under him; (3) causing, however innocently, a party to an agreement, to make
 a mistake as to the substance of the thing which is the subject of
 the agreement." 303. It is to be pointed out that a circumstance of misrepresentation may

be material if it will influence the `decision' / `judgment' of a prudent

decision maker in accepting a proposal in the subject matter in issue. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 250 of 310 Difference between `Fraud' and `Misrepresentation: 304. The pinnacle difference as regards `Fraud' and

`Misrepresentation' is that in one case, the `person' making the

`suggestion' does not believe it to be true and in the other, he believes it

to be true, though in both, it is a `Misstatement of Fact' which misleads

the `promisor'. Burden of Proof: 305. It is to be remembered that the `onus of proof' of purported `Fraud'

or `Misrepresentation' committed by a `deviant' lies on the `person' who

alleges the same, by placing some `prima facie material' in support of the

same and that the `level of proof' is at very high pedestal. 306. An innocent `Misrepresentation' is a `Misstatement of Facts' not

intended to `Deceive'. `Fraud' is a `statement known to be false' or `made

in ignorance as to its `truth' or `falsehood', but confidently so as to

`represent' that the `Maker' is certain when he is uncertain. 307. The plea of the `1st Respondent/CCI' is that the

`Appellant/Amazon' had not provided it with the email dated 24.05.2018,

the email dated 10.07.2018 and the email dated 19.07.2019 (Internal

one), which were interchanged between the Appellant/Amazon's Key

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 251 of 310 Managerial Persons which depicted the ambit and purpose of the

`Proposed Combination'. 308. In this regard, the said email dated 24.05.2018 runs to the effect: 309. Besides this, the `Appellant/Amazon' had mentioned that it

engaged with Taj and discussed a `Business Commercial Framework'

(`BCF') to build and accelerate `ultra-fast delivery' across top - 20 Cities

in India leveraging FRL's National Store footprint as a `Copperfield

seller'. 310. Added further, the `Appellant/Amazon' in the email dated

24.05.2018, had mentioned that because `Taj's Retail Entity' is a listed

company, it could invest up to 9.99% of the company directly as `Foreign

Shareholders'. Also, the `Appellant/Amazon' had proceeded to mention

in the aforesaid email dated 24.05.2018 that `because Taj's Retail Entity'

is a listed company, it could invest up to 9.99% of the company directly

as `Foreign Shareholders'. To execute on the above Business

Commercial Framework (BCF) the founder of Taj believes a close

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 252 of 310 alignment via a strategic investment with an online player is important

and it sought `Approval to indicate its non-binding interest (Taj's

Founder) to invest $400 to $500 MM for up to 9.99% stake in the

company." 311. In addition to the above, the `Appellant/Amazon' noted the

Investment Rationale as allowing it (Appellant); (a) "expand coverage in top 4 Cities with improve the Merchant
 Fee to 13.5% (+850 bps); build a two-hour-delivery service in next
 20 cities; (c) exclusively carry their private label portfolio in
 grocery and value-fashion; and (d) obtain option value to increase
 our equity stake when laws change" and in abstract, against an
 investment of $400 to 500 MM in Taj will result in discounted
 cash flow value of BCF over 10 years of $702 MM (INR 45.6B)." 312. In the email dated 10.07.2018, under the Head - `Project Taj - National Multi-category Copperfield-seller' `situation update', the

`Appellant/Amazon' inter alia had mentioned that its `strategic

objectives' which it wants to achieve through `Taj' is; (a) "Ability to become the single largest shareholder in India's
 largest offline retailer (TRL) when foreign direct investment (FDI)
 opens up in this sector. (b) Precluding / blocking competitive interest in TRL, and
 preventing an IC from acquiring TRL. (c) Together with the investment, Alpha will enter into a
 commercial agreement to utilize TRL's pan-india store

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 253 of 310 infrastructure to bolster Alpha's ultra-fast delivery program,
 exclusively carry private label portfolio in grocery and value
 fashion, and drive higher fees for Alpha." 2.``What is our business rationale and BCF for Taj?
 We believe that a two-hour delivery promise, for 15,000 SKUs
 across top-20 cities will be a unique differentiating capability. It
 will allow us to cover 85% of our Prime members and 63% of all
 customers. To serve this customer base, we believe working
 closely with a large Copperfield seller is important. We believe
 that Taj is one of two key pan-India retailers worth pursuing (the
 other being Brigade). Taj has a strong portfolio of private label
 selection in grocery (450+SKUs, across packaged foods, home
 and personal care) and value-fashion (27 brands with a median
 ASP of $9.2 (INR 600) contributing to 80% of their GMS for
 fashion). Against our investment of $400 to 600MM in TRL, we
 estimate the discounted cash flow value of BCF over 10 years of
 $702MM (INR 45.6B) please refer to Annexure // for investment
 rationale and more details of the BCF. When foreign investment laws are relaxed and higher stake of
 acquisition of multi-brand retail assets is permitted beyond
 today's possibilities, we would have a foot-in-the-door to acquire
 more in this strategic asset, should we so desire at the time. For
 further details please refer to Annexure II - BCF Strategic Value.
 Importantly, our investment in TRL will be liquid given that TRL
 is publicly traded in the Indian stock market, and therefore, we
 can recover our investment in case TRL fails to deliver. 3. What is the proposed transaction? An overseas Amazon entity, registered as a 'foreign portfolio
 investor' will acquire 9.99% (through a fresh issuance of shares)
 of TRL. Simultaneous with the investment, Alpha India will enter
 into a commercial agreement (BCF) with TRL, and Taj Consumer

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 254 of 310 Limited (TCL), and Taj Lifestyle Fashion Limited (TLFL) in
 relation to the matters listed in FAQ2. Indian regulations prescribe the minimum price at which a listed
 company may issue fresh equity to an investor (SEBI Floor Price),
 and the same is based on the average weekly high and low of the
 volume weighted average price of the shares for the last 6 months
 or two weeks whichever is higher. Based on our current
 calculations, the SEBI Floor Price for acquiring 9.99% in TRL will
 be $459MM (INR 31.2B)2. 6. If we were to execute both Taj and Brigade, why is a Call
 Option important in both situations? Our ICs (BB, FK, Paytm Mall) are aggressive on grocery, general
 merchandise and general electronics categories. Specifically in
 grocery and fresh categories, we are lagging behind BB and FK is
 also nipping at our heels. Walmart's expertise in offline retail
 will likely spur FK and Alibaba's investment and technology will
 continue to push BB ahead. Given the above, we need to build deep strategic alignments with
 offline grocery retailers to leverage their execution capabilities to
 power our fresh and grocery offering. India has 6 offline retailers
 (Taj, Brigade, Reliance Retail, D-Mart, Spencers and Nature's
 Basket). With a process of elimination on parameters of asset
 quality, partner quality and availability, only two i.e., Taj and
 Brigade remain. If we are able to close our investment in Brigade,
 we would secure a high quality asset, however, it will lack the scale
 and national footprint that Taj offers. Further, Brigade is our bet
 to own a high quality grocery operation. Taj, on the other hand,
 is an investment in a multi-category Copperfield seller with a
 larger pan-India footprint. Getting a Call option in both assets
 allows us to acquire and raise our bet, at our discretion, in the
 player we feel best meets our objectives after having tested close
 operational alignment with both in 3-7 years following investment,
 when regulations permit. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 255 of 310 7. If we were to execute both Taj and Brigade, how would we
 decide which Call Option to exercise then? Keeping aside our tenets of Financial Discipline for the moment,
 holding a Call Option in both assets keeps our options open and it
 also serves as an incentive / deterrent to Brigade / Taj. If Brigade
 executes flawlessly, we can exercise our Call Option (when legally
 permissible) and make Brigade a spearhead of our 1P grocery
 operations. If Brigade doesn't execute to our bar, then we can
 choose to pull back from further investments in Brigade and
 double down on our investments in Taj, provided that it meets our
 expectations. If Taj executes well both on BCF as well as an
 independent retail asset, when regulations relax, we will have the
 ability to increase our stake in India's largest offline retailer and
 keep our competition. If Taj doesn't execute well, we can exit our
 ownership in listed stock. Holding Call Options in both assets,
 thus allows us to control our destiny in a thoughtful manner in the
 future. Annexure II - Strategic value accruing to Amazon as a result of
 the Business Commercial Framework (BCF)
 We started working with Taj, couple of years ago, as a Copperfield
 seller in three cities (across 23 stores) to learn and develop the
 ultrafast delivery model in India. In April-2018, we served about
 2000 orders per day with an AOV of $12.3 (INR 802) and UPO of
 9.3. We earn merchant fee of 5.4% and have a CPLF of ~$4.55 (-
 INR 296) per order (55.5%). If we improve the order economics,
 we believe Taj's footprint of physical infrastructure can offer a
 unique 2-hour-delivery service across multiple categories in top-
 20 cities. Therefore, we constructed a BCF to estimate value
 creation from this partnership across their retail assets and
 private label capabilities. 1. Offer 2-hour-ready selection in top 4 cities with improved
 economics: An average hypermarket store carries an in-
 stock selection of about 15,000 SKUs - 8500 in softlines,
 5500 in grocery and 2000 in general merchandising

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 256 of 310 (primarily home and kitchen). There are 104 stores in top 4
 cities. In five years we can scale to 21K orders/day with an
 AOV of $24 (INR1549) and GMS of $181MM (INR11B). In
 this model we will bear only the last mile costs with increase
 in SoA fee for grocery at 13.5% (+810bps over current
 levels) and 32% for softlines. Therefore, we will improve
 our order economics with an OP per order of ~$0.8
 (-INR53) or (+2495bps vs. 2021 LRF). OP less infra will be
 $1.3 (INR 84) (+2466 bps vs. 2021 LRF). 2. Build and expand 2-hour-delivery service in the next 16
 cities : These cities are likely to grow faster than the top-4
 cities and therefore will lead in retail consumption. Taj has
 nearly 120 stores in these cities and carry an average
 selection of 12,000 SKUs. We expect to expand the
 Copperfield-service to these cities within three years and
 scale to 31K orders per day with an AOV of $20.9 (INR
 1,363) by year 5. The order economics will be similar to that
 in top-4 cities. 3. Carry Taj's private label selection across grocery and
 softlines exclusively: We will leverage Taj's private label
 selection to substitute and accelerate the private label
 selection in Pantry. Our 2020-LRP assumes private-label
 penetration of 7.0% as proportion of Consumables GMS.
 We believe we can expand private-label participation to
 18% by year-3 (current penetration of Taj is at 30% in
 FMCG and 60% in Staples). This will give incremental
 margins of INR 28 per order in Pantry. Taj has capabilities
 from design to manufacturing for fast and value-fashion
 brands in apparels, shoes and luggage. Leveraging this
 capability, we can improve the share of private labels to
 overall Softlines business by 10% (+500 bps) in Year-5.
 Secondly, we expect Taj's fashion stores Fashion-Big-
 Bazaar, Central and Brand Factory to list as a seller,
 similar to Shopper Stop (we invested for a 5% stake in
 India's largest offline fashion department store to onboard
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 257 of 310 200K+ ASINs across 300 fashion brands) and generate
 additional 0.5MM order per month. We expect to improve
 Softlines CP by 507bps by year- by a combination of
 accelerated PL penetration, increased selection of Central
 and Brand Factory and improvement in SOA fees. 4. Foot-in-the-door and a strategic option value: Laws in
 India currently do not permit foreign investment in offline
 retail companies engaged in both food and non-food retail.
 This could change in the next 3-5 years, as government of
 India, is slowly relaxing the laws. At that point, Taj will
 likely still be the largest asset with pan-India footprint and
 the possibility of greater control." 313. In the internal email dated 19.07.2019 of Appellant/Amazon

Group on the subject `Request for Approval' for `Project Taj Privileged

and Confidential it is mentioned; Lastly, we have negotiated a call option over the shares held by
 Future Retail's promoters (who are also its largest shareholder),
 leaving us well-positioned to become the single largest
 shareholder of Future Retail (which could be very difficult through
 market purchases alone), if Indian foreign investment laws change
 in the future." 314. A mere running of the eye of the contents of the email dated

19.07.2019, together with `Contract Summary' (Approval request)

latently and patently alludes that the `Appellant/Amazon' would enter

into `Commercial Agreements' with `FRL' to expand the coverage, while

also involving in `strategic' discussions for `call option' over shares held

by `FRL's Promoters with a view to leave the `Appellant/Amazon', `well

positioned to become the single largest shareholder of FRL'. In fact, the

number of Equity Shares of `FRL' to be held by `FCPL' `was calculated'

such that `Amazon' can indirectly hold the same number of shares of

`FRL' at a price per share representing a 25% premium on the minimum

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 260 of 310 Regulatory Price'. Lastly, it was mentioned that 25% `premium is being

paid on account of the `strategic rights' and `call option' being provided

to `Amazon'. 315. At this juncture, this `Tribunal' significantly refers to the

observation made by the `1st Respondent/CCI' in the impugned order

dated 17.12.2021 that the aforesaid Appellant's internal emails

correspondence were germane to comprehend the focus and objectives

of its `Combination' which was to "secure its ability to become the single

largest shareholder of FRL when the foreign direct investment opens up

in the retail sector; preclude/block competitive interest in FRL and utilise

the Pan-India Store Infrastructure of FRL to bolster the ultra-fast

delivery program and exclusively carry private label portfolio in grocery

and value fashion; and drive fees". 316. Not resting with the above, the `1st Respondent/CCI' noticed that

`Acquisition of Shares' in `FRL / FCPL' by `Amazon' (i.e., Appellant)

was envisaged as a `pre-requisite' to enter into `Commercial

Agreements' and further that `the purpose of the Combination was

investment in FRL and establishing a strategic alignment / partnership

between Amazon (Appellant) and Future Groups in the Indian retail

sector'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 261 of 310 317. In pith and substance, the `Appellant/Amazon' had provided the

presentation `Taj Coupons - Business Plan for five years' which

incorrectly formulated the Appellant/Amazon's elemental intent of the

`Combination' as permitting it to enter the `Gift Voucher Business of

FCPL, etc.', without any indication to `FRL' and had not provided the

internal email correspondences as mentioned supra which is clearly an

unfavourable circumstance to and in favour of `Appellant/Amazon' in

the earnest opinion of this `Tribunal'. Furthermore, the

`Appellant/Amazon' had omitted to present the other documents

covering the actual purpose depicted in the internal emails, in any of the

materials furnished against Item 8.8 of Form I or Question 2.1 of the 1st

Respondent/CCI's letter dated 24.10.2019 seeking additional

information in regard to the submissions made against Item 8.8

(presentation captioned `Taj Coupons - Business Plan for five years' vide

Page 219 - Convenience Compilation of 1st Respondent/CCI (Vol. 1

(Part-II)). As such, on the part of the `Appellant/Amazon' there is a

`Misstatement of Fact'/`Misrepresentation' in not exhibiting the internal

emails which make known the real ambit and purpose of the notified

transactions, thereby misleading the `1st Respondent/CCI' in approving

the `Proposed Transaction' (through an `Approval Order' dated

28.11.2019), presented by the `Appellant/Amazon', all the more, when

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 262 of 310 the `Appellant/Amazon' had not presented the `Business Transaction', as

opined by this `Tribunal'. 318. Dealing with the `aspect of Misrepresentation' by the

`Appellant/Amazon', in regard to the description of the `Approval'

accorded by the `1st Respondent/CCI', by virtue of its `Order' dated

28.11.2019, this `Tribunal' pertinently points out that the

`Appellant/Amazon' through its `Claim Statement' dated 04.07.2021

before the `Arbitral Tribunal' (pertaining to the `Arbitration

Proceedings') had expressed that the `1st Respondent/CCI' had approved

the `Proposed Combination' after taking into account the

`Appellant/Amazon' consistent stand that `FRL', its `Retail Assets' were

a material inducement for the `investment'. 319. However, the `Appellant/Amazon' before the Hon'ble High Court

of Delhi in its `Appeal' had submitted that its `Notice' exhibited that it

was (`Appellant/Amazon'), the ultimate beneficiary of the `rights'

granted to `FCPL' under the `FRL SHA' (vide Annexure 8 to 2nd

Respondent/FCPL's complaint filed before the 1st Respondent/CCI, at

Page 1384 of Volume No.6 of Convenience Compilation of the

`Appellant/Amazon'). Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 263 of 310 320. From the above, it is candidly clear that just opposite to the

`Factum of Approval' of the `Proposed Transaction', the

`Appellant/Amazon' had made a `Misstatement / Misrepresentation'

before the aforesaid `Forums' that the `Business Transaction' was

notified to the `1st Respondent/CCI' and approved by it. 321. In so far as the `aspect of concealment of material facts /

particulars' by the `Appellant/Amazon', this `Tribunal' aptly points out

that in response to Item 5.3 of Form I, in and by which, the

`Appellant/Amazon' was required to reveal `Economic and Strategic

purpose (including business objective and rationale for each of the parties

to the combination and the manner in which they are intended to be

achieved) of the Combination' - the Appellant had spelt out that it had

"decided to invest in FCPL with a view to strengthen and augment the

business of FCPL (including the marketing and distribution of loyalty

cards, corporate gift cards and reward cards to corporate customers) and

unlock the value in the company." 322. In short, the `Appellant/Amazon' had averred that it has no direct

or indirect shareholding in `FRL' but only some `rights' which were

granted to it in regard to `FCPL's investment' in `FRL' with a view to

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 264 of 310 protect its investment in `FCPL' (vide `Appellant's Response' to Item

5.3 of Form I, Page 29 of Appellant's Convenience Compilation - I ). 323. Moreover, in the `Statutory Summary' as per Regulation 13A of

the Combination Regulations (vide Page 191, Vol. I of Appellant's

Appeal Paper Book), the `Appellant/Amazon' had mentioned that it had

`decided to invest in FCL with a view to strengthen and augment FCL's

business relating to marketing and distribution of corporate gift cards". 324. The `Appellant/Amazon' in response to `1st Respondent/CCI'

elucidation relating to an entry in Item 5.3 vis-à-vis Kishore Biyani's

assertion that the `Appellant/Amazon's investment in `FRL' was

strategic to be the part of the `Retail Ecosystem' as per `1 st

Respondent/CCI's letter dated 09.10.2019, the `Appellant/Amazon' had

emphasized that the gift card business of the 2nd Respondent/FCPL and

the interest of the `Appellant/Amazon' to elongate its portfolio in the

payments scenario in India. 325. In regard to the pinpointed Query, as regards the ambit and aim of

the Appellant/Amazon's rights under the `FRL SHA' as per letter of the

1st Respondent/CCI dated 24.10.2019, the `Appellant/Amazon' among

other things stated vide its Response dated 15.11.2019 that its

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 265 of 310 considerations were (i) the unique business model of FCL; and (ii) to add

credibility to its (FCL's) financial position, it has invested in, and

proposes to invest in FRL, which is a publicly traded company." 326. In the instant case, this `Tribunal' pertinently points out that quite

opposite to the internal communications/emails of the Appellant/Amazon

had not shown a possibility of the `Combination' being pursued for

having a foot-in-door in the Indian retail sector, acquire strategic rights

over `FRL', etc. To put it precisely, the Appellant/Amazon had projected

in `FRL', `FCPL' only a vehicle, for which, no intention was assigned. As a matter of fact, the whole consideration of the `Combination' was

made based on the footing of 25% premium to the Regulatory Price of

`FRL' shares and indeed, premium was paid on account of `Strategic

Rights' and `Call Option' provided to the `Appellant/Amazon'. 327. Suffice it for this `Tribunal' to make a relevant mention that the

`Appellant/Amazon' had made only the limited disclosures in regard to

`FRL' only in the realm of `FRL's Equity Warrants' held by the `2 nd

Respondent/FCPL' and had not spelt out the real combination of the

Appellant/Amazon acquiring `strategic rights' and interests over FRL as

well as executing `Commercial Contracts' between it and the `FRL'. In

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 266 of 310 reality, the `FRL' was exhibited as factor from the angle of `financial

strength' to the `2nd Respondent/FCPL'. 328. Proceeding further, the Appellant/Amazon had not mentioned that

`FRL SHA' and `BCAs' were part of the `Combination' and that `FRL

SHA' was executed to shower upon the Appellant/Amazon indirect

rights over `FRL', which the `Appellant' pondered strategic in the

letters/communications. 329. It cannot be gainsaid that when the 1st Respondent/CCI had raised

a question relating to the nature of rights and its interests over `FRL', the

`Appellant/Amazon' in its `Response' dated 15.11.2019 had among other

things mentioned that these rights were obtained from the rights given to

`FCL' as per terms of the `FRL SHA', which was discussed by the

`Promoters', `FRL and FRL (sic., FCPL) dehors of the investment by the

Investor in `FCL' and with a view to unlock value for `FCL' and this

candid, unequivocal and clear cut assertion / declaration unerringly point

out that `FRL SHA' is a separate and independent one of the

`Combination'. Likewise, the Appellant/Amazon on the `Commercial

Agreements' had stated that it was neither a part nor inter-related to the

`Combination' though they were of one composite proposal Viz. `Project

Taj (Future all along). Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 267 of 310 330. Because of the incorrect disclosures and there being an act of

commissions/omissions in the `Notice', (like the `Commercial

Agreements' were integral part of the `Combination', `Arrangements' in

relation to the `Appellant/Amazon', `FRL' for listing of the products of

`FRL' in Amazon's market place were stated as `neither inter-connected

with nor part of the `Proposed Combination'), in the submission dated

15.11.2019 of `Amazon' (`The Appellant'), and persistently making

representations that `BCAs' were independent of the `Combination', etc.,

there was no room for the 1st Respondent/CCI to have any `iota of needle

of suspicion' that the `Commercial Agreements/Arrangements' were part

of the `Combination' to establish a strategic alignment between the

parties in retail sector, in the subjective considered opinion of this

`Tribunal'. Therefore, the 1st Respondent/CCI had no opportunity to

evaluate the effects of actual real `Combination'. Hence, this `Tribunal'

comes to an inevitable and inescapable conclusion that the

`Appellant/Amazon had not fulfilled its obligation as per ingredients of Section 6 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002, attracting imposition of

penalty under Section 43A of the Act, extending to 1% of the total

turnover or the Assets whichever is higher of such a `Combination'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 268 of 310 331. As regards the plea taken on behalf of the `Appellant/Amazon' that

the `1st Respondent/CCI' has no power under the Competition Act, 2002 ,

to annul / revoke or to keep the `Approval Order' dated 28.11.2019 on

hold or in abeyance or issuing a direction to file Form II because of the

fact that the jurisdiction of 1st Respondent/CCI is governed and limited

by the Competition Act, 2002 , and the Rules and Regulations made

thereunder, it is to be pointed out that a reading of Section 45 (2) of the

Competition Act, 2002, clearly points out that `without prejudice to the

provisions of sub- section 1 (45) , the `Commission' may also pass such

other order as it deems fit', which, without any hesitation steers this

`Tribunal' in holding that the 1st Respondent/CCI has an

incidental/ancillary/residual power to pass an `Order' of keeping the

`Approval Order' dated 28.11.2019 passed by the 1st Respondent/CCI in

abeyance / or to put it on hold, as opined by this `Tribunal'. 332. Besides this, when the object of the Competition Act, 2002 , is to

prevent the practice of having an adverse effect on `Competition', etc.,

the `1st Respondent/CCI' by no stretch of imagination be deprived of the

power to displace an `Approval Order', in terms of Section 45 (2) of the

Act. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 269 of 310 333. It is to be remembered that when an `Order of Approval dated

28.11.2019' was obtained by the `Appellant/Amazon' from the 1 st

Respondent/CCI based on misstatement of facts, misrepresentation/not

making a full and frank enough disclosures, (with an intent to gain unfair

advantage and deceive another), the suppression/concealment of material

facts (amounting to `Fraud'), as required under the Competition Act,

2002 , Rules and Regulations, etc., then, in Law, an `Authority' vested

under the `Statute'/`Act', has an inbuilt, an implied residual power to

annul, modify, vary or to keep the earlier order passed by it in abeyance

/ putting it on hold and there is no express fetter in this regard, in the

considered opinion of this `Tribunal'. 334. The very fact that the `Appellant/Amazon' had not made known /

notified the `Proposed Combination' as a `whole' and in an omnibus

manner, the period of limitation of one year, as mentioned in Section 20

(1) of the Competition Act, 2002, is inapplicable, in lieu of `Absence of

Notification' and there being no Approval'. 335. It is to be made mention of by this `Tribunal' that a `Fuller',

`Comprehensive' and an `Indepth Appraisal' in respect of the

`Combination's `AAEC' can be made / performed only when the

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 270 of 310 `Appellant/Amazon' submits `Form II' with all relevant, true, precise and

full particulars / information / documents which exhibit the aim and

purpose of the `Proposed Combinations'. In fact, the

`Appellant/Amazon', in stricto senso, especially to a limited extent,

cannot be an `Affected/Aggrieved Person' of the `impugned order' dated

17.12.2021, because of the fact that the `Approval Order' dated

28.11.2019 passed by the 1st Respondent/CCI to and in favour of the

`Appellant' was directed to be `kept on Hold' while granting the

`Appellant/Amazon' to give `Notice' in Form II within a period of 60

days from the receipt of this `Order'. 336. Coming to the aspect of the plea taken on behalf of the

`Appellant/Amazon' that the `impugned order' dated 17.12.2021, passed

by the `1st Respondent/CCI' is `Bad in Law', besides being an untenable

one, in the absence of a Judicial Member, especially the `Show Cause

Notice Proceedings' dated 04.06.2021 against the `Appellant/Amazon'

revolves around complex, legal, mixed question of legal issues pertaining

to the purported non-disclosure of relevant information of the

`Combination', etc., this `Tribunal' points out that it is for the

`Legislature', in their `domain and collective wisdom' to determine about

the aspect of presence of a `Judicial Member' or otherwise in the `1 st

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 271 of 310 Respondent/CCI', apart from other `Members', by prescribing the

`qualifications' / `eligibility criteria'. 337. It is pointed out that in Special Leave Petition filed by the `Union

of India' and the `1st Respondent/CCI' against the `Order' dated

10.04.2019 in W.P.(C) 11467/2018, CM APPL. 44376-44378/2018,

passed by the `Hon'ble High Court of Delhi' in the matter of `Mahindra

Electric Mobility Ltd. & Anr. V Competition Commission of India and

Anr.', the matter is pending as on date, before the Hon'ble Supreme Court

of India. 338. In fact, as per ingredients of Section 15 of the Competition Act,

2002, `no proceedings of the `Competition Commission of India' will be

invalid, by reason of any `vacancy' or any `defect' in its `Constitution'

or any `defect' in the `appointment of a Person acting as a `Chairperson'

or as a `Member' or any irregularity in the procedure of the

`Commission' not affecting the `merits' of the case'. In any event, the

`impugned order' dated 17.12.2021 passed by the `1 st Respondent/CCI'

in the absence of a `Judicial Member' is not a fatal one. 339. To be noted, that Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002, deals

with the `imposition of penalty' and as per this Section, the penalty is

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 272 of 310 leviable for non-furnishing of information on `Combinations' even if the

`Combination' has no `Appreciable Adverse Effect on Competition'. There is no requirement of `Guilty Mind' (Mens Rea) or intentional /

deliberate Breach, as an element for the levy of penalty, as opined by this

`Tribunal'. The `1st Respondent/CCI' can impose a maximum penalty of

1% of the total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a

`Combination'. There is no two opinion of a pivotal fact that the levy of

penalty, as per Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002, is on account

of violation of a `Civil Obligation', although the proceedings are

admittedly neither `criminal' nor `quasi-criminal' in nature. 340. It must be borne in mind that the words `without reasonable cause'

are not found in Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002, as opined by

this `Tribunal. However, the concept of failure `without reasonable

cause' is incorporated for the levy of fine as per Section 42 (2) of the

Competition Act, 2002. Once it is established that there was a failure to

notify the `Proposed Combination', as required under Section 6 (2) of the

Competition Act, 2002, the `penalty' has to follow. 341. Admittedly, the `Parties' to the `Combination' cannot deny an

opportunity to the `1st Respondent/CCI', to evaluate the likely effects of

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 273 of 310 the `Proposed Combination' on `Competition' and regulate them

appropriately. 342. Section 44 of the Competition Act, 2002, pertains to the levy of

penalty for making false statements or omission to furnish material

information by any person, being party to the `Combination' and such

penalty, shall not be less than rupees fifty lakhs, but it may extend up to

rupees one crore, as may be determined by the `Commission'. 343. Section 45 (1) of the Competition Act, 2002, provides for `penalty

for offences pertaining to furnishing of information', which may extend

to rupees one crore, to be determined by the `Commission' (`1st

Respondent'). Exercise of Discretion: 344. An `Authority' who imposes a penalty performs a `Duty'. He must

marshal all his faculties at his command in performing his duty. An

`exercise of discretion' must be done according to the rules of `reason'

and justice. Undoubtedly, the `Discretionary Power' is to be reasonably

and fairly exercised in a `judicious' and `sound' manner. The `Discretion'

to be exercised by an `Authority' is not to be a `vague', `whimsical',

`fanciful', `arbitrary' and `capricious' one. In short, the discretion to be

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 274 of 310 exercised by an `Authority', must be a legal and a regular one based on

`reason' and the same shall not suffer from any `Bias' in the earnest

opinion of this `Tribunal'. 345. Be that as it may, this `Tribunal' in the light of `qualitative',

`detailed' and `quantitative' discussions, taking into account of the

divergent contentions advanced on either side, and considering the

attendant facts and circumstances of the present case, in an holistic and

conspectus fashion that the `Appellant/Amazon' had not made full,

whole, fair, forthright and frank disclosure of relevant materials and had

furnished only limited details / disclosures, pertaining to its `acquiring

strategic rights and interests' over `FRL', and executing `Commercial

Contracts' among itself and `FRL' concerning the ambit and purpose of

`Combination' in `Form I', and omitted to state material facts/furnish

material information(s) knowing to be material one, thereby leading to

`Misstatement of Facts'/`Misrepresentations', comes to a resultant

conclusion that the `Appellant/Amazon' because of the violations

committed by it, had intentionally not made known the `real ambit and

purpose' of the `Combination', as observed by the `1st Respondent/CCI'

in the `impugned order' dated 17.12.2021 (vide Ref No. C- 2019/09/688/7099) and in this regard, this `Appellate Tribunal' is in

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 275 of 310 complete agreement with the view arrived at by the `1 st

Respondent/Competition Commission of India'. However, the

imposition of maximum penalty of Rs.1 Crore each, as per the `impugned

order' dated 17.12.2021, passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI', as per Section 44 and 45 of the Competition Act, 2002, is slightly on the higher

side / excessive one, as opined by this `Tribunal'. As such, this `Appellate

Tribunal', based on the relevant facts and circumstances of the case, Viz.,

availability of competitions in the market, financial health of the industry,

etc., which float on the surface and also, in the teeth of the `1st

Respondent/CCI' in the impugned order dated 17.12.2021 had provided

an opportunity to the `Appellant/Amazon' to file a fresh `Notice' in Form

II, etc., to prevent an `aberration of justice', in `furtherance of justice',

exercising its prudence and as a mitigating factor, imposes a penalty of

Rs.50 Lakhs (Rupees Fifty Lakhs) each, as per Section 44 and 45 of the

Competition Act, 2002, and the said sum, is directed by this `Tribunal'

to be paid by the `Appellant/Amazon', within 45 days from today (the

date of passing of this `Judgment'). 346. As regards the non-furnishing of information Viz., the

Appellant/Amazon's omission/lapse/failure to notify the `Combination'

as per the obligation required under the ingredients of Section 6 (2) of the

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 276 of 310 Competition Act, 2002 , this `Tribunal' holds the `Appellant/Amazon' for

its failure to provide the relevant information on the `Combinations'

being responsible and accountable in not giving `Notice' as required and

in this regard, this `Tribunal', to secure the `ends of justice' is not

displacing the imposition of penalty of INR Rs.200 Crore levied upon the

`Appellant/Amazon' by the `1st Respondent/CCI' in the `impugned

order' dated 17.12.2021, since the same is a fair and sensible one, as per Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002. As such, this `Tribunal'

directs the `Appellant/Amazon' to pay the sum of Rs.200 Crore within

45 days from today, (the date of passing of this `Judgment'). Also, this

`Tribunal' directs the `Appellant/Amazon' to give notice to the `1st

Respondent/CCI' in `Form II' within 45 days from today (the date of

passing of this `Judgment') and till the disposal of such notice, by the `1st

Respondent/CCI', the `Approval' granted on 28.11.2019 (vide

Combination Registration No.C-2019/09/688), shall be `kept on hold'. Disposition (Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022): IA Nos. 122 & 123 of 2022 in Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022

are closed. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 277 of 310 Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022: 349. The `1st Respondent/Competition Commission of India', while

passing the `impugned order' dated 28.11.2019 (under Section 31 (1) of

the Competition Act,2002) (in respect of `Notice' under Section 6 (2) of

the Competition Act, 2002, filed by Amazon.com NV Investment

Holdings LLC) at paragraph nos. 6 to 16, had observed the following: Additionally, the Acquirer has stated that it has certain non-
 controlling minority investments in entities ("Acquirer Portfolio
 Companies") engaged in business activities in India. 8. The Commission noted that FCRPL, FCL and FRL belong to the
 Future group of companies. Prior to the Proposed Combination,
 FCL is a wholly owned subsidiary of FCRPL and is now
 principally engaged in marketing and distribution of corporate gift

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 279 of 310 cards, loyalty cards and reward cards to corporate customers.
 Until FY19 i.e. 31st March, 2019, FCL was only engaged in the
 business-to-business wholesale trading of fabrics. It does not have
 any direct or indirect subsidiaries in India. It has been stated that
 so far (in Q1 of FY20), FCL only procured the gift cards and
 vouchers of Future group companies (such as FRL) and sold the
 same to its customers (such as Paytm). 9. FCRPL, an entity incorporated in India, is engaged in business
 of management consultancy services and trading in goods and
 services. FCRPL also has investments in various Future group of
 companies. FCL and FCRPL are owned and controlled by the
 promoter group led by Mr. Kishore Biyani ("Promoter Group"). 10. FRL, an entity listed on National Stock Exchange of India and
 BSE, is flagship retail entity of the Promoter Group with FCRPL
 being one of the promoters and the single largest shareholder in
 FRL. FRL (including its subsidiaries) is active in the Indian retail
 market and currently operates multiple retail formats in
 hypermarkets, supermarkets and convenience stores under
 different brand names, including: Big Bazaar / Big Bazaar GenNxt
 / Hypercity (variety departmental chain); FBB (Fashion @ Big
 Bazaar); Foodhall (premium lifestyle food destination); Easyday
 (super market chain); Heritage Fresh (super market chain);
 Nilgiris (super market chain); WHSmith (books, stationery and
 traveller focused specialty retail chain); eZone (high end
 consumer electronics specialty store); and 7-Eleven.
 Competition Assessment: 11. With respect to the presence of Amazon Group and FCL in
 coupons / gift cards activities, the Commission, based on the
 submissions, noted that Amazon co-branded gift cards are issued
 by an independent third party, Qwikcilver Solutions Private
 Limited ("Qwikcilver") and neither ACI nor any other Acquirer
 Affiliate hold any shares in Qwikcilver. Further, it is stated that

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 280 of 310 neither APIPL nor any other Acquirer Affiliate is engaged in the
 business of issuing/distributing gift cards in India. 12. It is noted that the wholesale (B2B) and retail (B2C) activities
 of Acquirer or Acquirer Affiliates have horizontal overlap(s)
 and/or vertical relationship(s) with business activities of FRL
 (including its direct and / or indirect subsidiaries). 13. With respect to the presence of Future Group and certain
 Acquirer Affiliates in the business of B2C retail, the Commission
 carried out the assessment at overall India retail market level,
 separately for organised segment, and within organised segment
 separately for other narrower segments. The Commission
 observed that the presence of FRL and Acquirer Affiliates in
 overall B2C retail or in any narrower segment stated above is not
 such as to raise any competition concern. Therefore, the Proposed
 Combination is not likely to raise any competition concern and the
 exact relevant market definition is being left open. Combination 14. With regard to potential as well as existing vertical
 relationship(s) in B2B sales, Amazon branded devices, digital
 payment and online marketplace/online intermediation services, it
 observed that: 15. Considering the facts on record, details provided in the notice
 given under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act and assessment
 of the proposed combination on the basis of factors stated in sub-
 section (4) of Section 20 of the Act, the Commission is of the
 opinion that the proposed combination is not likely to have an
 appreciable adverse effect on competition in India and therefore,
 the Commission, hereby, approves the same under sub-section (1)
 of Section 31 of the Act. 16. This order shall stand revoked if, at any time, the information
 provided by the Acquirer is found to be incorrect. This approval
 should not be construed as immunity in any manner from
 subsequent proceedings before the Commission for violations of
 other provisions of the Act." Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 282 of 310 Appellant's Contentions (All India Consumer Product Distributors
Federation): What is also extremely important is regulation 35, by which the
 CCI must maintain confidentiality of the identity of an informant
 on a request made to it in writing, so that such informant be free
 from harassment by persons involved in contravening the Act. 18. This being the case, it is difficult to agree with the impugned
 judgment of the NCLAT in its narrow construction of section 19 of
 the Act, which therefore stands set aside. 19. With the question of the Informant's locus standi out of the
 way, one more important aspect needs to be decided, and that is
 the submission of Shri Rao, that in any case, a person like the
 Informant cannot be said to be a "person aggrieved" for the
 purpose of sections 53B and 53T of the Act. Shri Rao relies heavily
 upon Adi Pherozshah Gandhi (supra), in which section 37 of the
 Advocates Act, 1961 came up for consideration, which spoke of the
 right of appeal of "any person aggrieved" by an order of the
 disciplinary committee of a State Bar Council. It was held that
 since the Advocate General could not be said to be a person
 aggrieved by an order made by the disciplinary committee of the
 State Bar Council against a particular advocate, he would have no
 locus standi to appeal to the Bar Council of India. In so saying,
 the Court held: The order must cause him a legal grievance by wrongfully
 depriving him of something. It is no doubt a legal grievance
 and not a grievance about material matters but his legal
 grievance must be a tendency to injure him. That the order
 is wrong or that it acquits some one who he thinks ought to
 be convicted does not by itself give rise to a legal
 grievance." 20. It must immediately be pointed out that this provision of the Advocates Act, 1961 is in the context of a particular advocate
 being penalized for professional or other misconduct, which
 concerned itself with an action in personam, unlike the present
 case, which is concerned with an action in rem. In this context, it
 is useful to refer to the judgment in A. Subash Babu v. State of A.P. ,
 (2011) 7 SCC 616, in which the expression "person aggrieved" in section 198(1)(c) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, when
 it came to an offence punishable under section 494 of the Indian
 Penal Code, 1860 (being the offence of bigamy), was under Section 494 does not restrict the right of filing complaint to
 the first wife and there is no reason to read the said section
 in a restricted manner as is suggested by the learned
 counsel for the appellant. Section 494 does not say that the
 complaint for commission of offence under the said section
 can be filed only by the wife living and not by the woman
 with whom the subsequent marriage takes place during the
 lifetime of the wife living and which marriage is void by
 reason of its taking place during the life of such wife. The
 complaint can also be filed by the person with whom the
 second marriage takes place which is void by reason of its
 taking place during the life of the first wife." (page 628) 21. Clearly, therefore, given the context of the Act in which the
 CCI and the NCLAT deal with practices which have an adverse
 effect on competition in derogation of the interest of consumers, it
 is clear that the Act vests powers in the CCI and enables it to act
 in rem, in public interest. This would make it clear that a "person
 aggrieved" must, in the context of the Act, be understood widely
 and not be constructed narrowly, as was done in Adi Pherozshah
 Gandhi (supra). Further, it is not without significance that the
 expressions used in sections 53B and 53T of the Act are "any
 person", thereby signifying that all persons who bring to the CCI
 information of practices that are contrary to the provisions of the
 Act, could be said to be aggrieved by an adverse order of the CCI
 in case it refuses to act upon the information supplied. By way of
 contrast, section 53N(3) speaks of making payment to an applicant
 as compensation for the loss or damage caused to the applicant as
 a result of any contravention of the provisions of Chapter II of the
 Act , having been committed by an enterprise. By this sub-section,
 clearly, therefore, "any person" who makes an application for
 compensation, under sub-section (1) of section 53N of the Act,
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 286 of 310 would refer only to persons who have suffered loss or damage,
 thereby, qualifying the expression "any person" as being a person
 who has suffered loss or damage. Thus, the preliminary objections
 against the Informant/Appellant filing Information before the CCI
 and filing an appeal before the NCLAT are rejected. 22. An instructive judgment of this Court reported as Competition
 Commission of India v. Steel Authority of India , (2010) 10 SCC
 744 dealt with the provisions of the Act in some detail and held: 101. The right to prefer an appeal is available to the Central
 Government, the State Government or a local authority or
 enterprise or any person aggrieved by any direction,
 decision or order referred to in clause (a) of Section 53-A
 [ought to be printed as 53-A(1)(a)]. The appeal is to be filed
 within the period specified and Section 53-B(3) further
 requires that the Tribunal, after giving the parties to appeal
 an opportunity of being heard, to pass such orders, as it
 thinks fit, and send a copy of such order to the Commission
 and the parties to the appeal. 102. Section 53-S contemplates that before the Tribunal a
 person may either appear "in person" or authorise one or
 more chartered accountants or company secretaries, cost
 accountants or legal practitioners or any of its officers to
 present its case before the Tribunal. However, the
 Commission's right to legal representation in any appeal
 before the Tribunal has been specifically mentioned under Section 53-S(3) . It provides that the Commission may
 authorise one or more of chartered accountants or company
 secretaries or cost accountants or legal practitioners or any
 of its officers to act as presenting officers before the
 Tribunal. Section 53-T grants a right in specific terms to the
 Commission to prefer an appeal before the Supreme Court
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 288 of 310 within 60 days from the date of communication of the
 decision or order of the Tribunal to them. 103. The expression "any person" appearing in Section 53-
 B has to be construed liberally as the provision first
 mentions specific government bodies then local authorities
 and enterprises, which term, in any case, is of generic
 nature and then lastly mentions "any person". Obviously, it
 is intended that expanded meaning be given to the term
 "persons" i.e. persons or bodies who are entitled to appeal.
 The right of hearing is also available to the parties to
 appeal. 104. The above stated provisions clearly indicate that the
 Commission, a body corporate, is expected to be party in the
 proceedings before the Tribunal as it has a legal right of
 representation. Absence of the Commission before the
 Tribunal will deprive it of presenting its views in the
 proceedings. Thus, it may not be able to effectively exercise
 its right to appeal in terms of Section 53 of the Act. 105. Furthermore, Regulations 14(4) and 51 support the
 view that the Commission can be a necessary or a proper
 party in the proceedings before the Tribunal. The
 Commission, in terms of Section 19 read with Section 26 of
 the Act, is entitled to commence proceedings suo motu and
 adopt its own procedure for completion of such
 proceedings. Thus, the principle of fairness would demand
 that such party should be heard by the Tribunal before any
 orders adverse to it are passed in such cases. The Tribunal
 has taken this view and we have no hesitation in accepting
 that in cases where proceedings initiated suo motu by the
 Commission, the Commission is a necessary party. 106. However, we are also of the view that in other cases
 the Commission would be a proper party. It would not only

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 289 of 310 help in expeditious disposal, but the Commission, as an
 expert body, in any case, is entitled to participate in its
 proceedings in terms of Regulation 51 . Thus, the assistance
 rendered by the Commission to the Tribunal could be useful
 in complete and effective adjudication of the issue before
 it." (page 788) 125. We have already noticed that the principal objects of
 the Act, in terms of its Preamble and the Statement of
 Objects and Reasons, are to eliminate practices having
 adverse effect on the competition, to promote and sustain
 competition in the market, to protect the interest of the
 consumers and ensure freedom of trade carried on by the
 participants in the market, in view of the economic
 developments in the country. In other words, the Act
 requires not only protection of free trade but also protection
 of consumer interest. The delay in disposal of cases, as well
 as undue continuation of interim restraint orders, can
 adversely and prejudicially affect the free economy of the
 country. Efforts to liberalise the Indian economy to bring it
 on a par with the best of the economies in this era of
 globalisation would be jeopardised if time-bound schedule
 and, in any case, expeditious disposal by the Commission is
 not adhered to. The scheme of various provisions of the Act
 which we have already referred to including Sections 26, 29 , 30, 31 , 53-B(5) and 53-T and Regulations 12, 15, 16, 22,
 32, 48 and 31 clearly show the legislative intent to ensure
 timebound disposal of such matters. 126. The Commission performs various functions including
 regulatory, inquisitorial and adjudicatory. The powers
 conferred by the legislature upon the Commission under Sections 27(d) and 31(3) are of wide magnitude and of
 serious ramifications. The Commission has the jurisdiction
 even to direct that an agreement entered into between the
 parties shall stand modified to the extent and in the manner,

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 290 of 310 as may be specified. Similarly, where it is of the opinion that
 the combination has, or is likely to have, an appreciable
 adverse effect on competition but such adverse effect can be
 eliminated by suitable modification to such combination, the
 Commission is empowered to direct such modification."
 (page 794) 23. Obviously, when the CCI performs inquisitorial, as opposed to
 adjudicatory functions, the doors of approaching the CCI and the
 appellate authority, i.e., the NCLAT, must be kept wide open in
 public interest, so as to subserve the high public purpose of the
 Act." and as such, the Learned Counsel for the Appellant contends that the

`Appellant' is a `Necessary and Proper Party' to the instant `Appeal'. 352. The Learned Counsel for the Appellant submits that `Fraud vitiates

all acts, judicial and ecclesiastical'. According to the `Appellant', `all acts

and orders/permissions', obtained by `Fraud' are `nullity' and has `no

legs to stand` in the `eye of law'. 353. According to the Learned Counsel for the Appellant, the language

of the `impugned order' dated 28.11.2019 of the `1st Respondent/CCI' in

(Combination Registration No. C-2019/09/688) employed at paragraph

16 i.e., `shall stand revoked', if the information is found to be `incorrect'

is not a `discretionary one', but a `mandatory one'. Therefore, in lieu of

the findings of `false statements', `suppression' and `misrepresentations'
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 291 of 310 in the `1st Respondent/CCI' Order and the requirements of the ingredients

of Section 43A , 44 and 45 of the Competition Act, 2002, having been

fulfilled, the `impugned order' dated 28.11.2019 is to be revoked and set

aside by this `Tribunal' in the interest of justice. Appellant's Case Law: Pleas of 2nd Respondent/Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC

in Comptn App (AT) Nos. 2 and 3 of 2022): Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 292 of 310 Show Cause Notice proceedings issued by the `1st Respondent/CCI') or

to prefer `Appeals' before this `Tribunal' because of the fact that they are

strangers to the proceedings before the `1st Respondent/CCI', since they

are not relevant `Stakeholder' in `Combination' between the

`Appellant/Amazon' and the 2nd Respondent/FCPL. That apart, they are

not `Parties' to the `Combination' between the `Appellant/Amazon' and

the `2nd Respondent/FCPL' as per Section 5 of the Competition Act,

2002, which defines a `Combination' read with Regulation 2 (1) (f) of

the Combination Regulations, which defines a `Party' to the

`Combination'. 356. The Learned Counsel for the `2nd Respondent/Amazon' refers to Section 29 of the Competition Act, 2002, which enumerates the

conditions when the `1st Respondent/CCI' may allow third parties to

participate in the `Combination' proceedings. 357. Section 29 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002, specifies that the

Commission may invite any third party which is affected or is likely to

be affected by the said `Combination', only when the `1 st

Respondent/CCI' after considering the Response of the Parties to the

Combination has formed the prima facie opinion that the `Proposed

Combination' is likely to cause `AAEC' and that, till date, no such `prima

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 293 of 310 facie opinion' has been formed by the `Commission'. As such, it is the

stand of the `2nd Respondent/Amazon' that till a prima facie opinion is

formed and a `Notice' is issued under the Section 29 of the Competition

Act, 2002, the proceedings pertaining to the review of a notified

Combination are in personam. 358. The Learned Counsel for the `2nd Respondent/Amazon' points out

that the `Show Cause Notice' dated 04.06.2021 was issued by the `1 st

Respondent/CCI' only to the Appellant/Amazon (in Comptn App (AT)

No. 1 of 2022) as per Section 43A , 44 and 45 of the Competition Act,

2002 and not under Section 29 of the Act. In fact, all the proceedings

undertaken qua, the penal provisions are in personam proceedings against

the `Appellant/Amazon' and rightly, the `Show Cause Notice' had not

mentioned the `Confederation of All India Traders'. 359. According to Learned Counsel for the `2nd Respondent/Amazon',

the `1st Respondent/CCI' had not considered the

`Appellant/Confederation of All India Traders' (Comptn. App (AT) No.

3 of 2022) to be a `Stakeholder' in the `Show Cause Proceedings' before

the `Order' dated 19.11.2021. In fact, the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi

without delving into the merits of the matter had directed the `1 st

Respondent/CCI' to consider the `Show Cause Notice' aspect within two

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 294 of 310 weeks, after considering all objections raised by the `Appellant' and to

pass an order, after hearing all the `Stakeholders'. In fact, the Hon'ble

High Court of Delhi's order, according to the Appellant had not directed

CAIT (Appellant in Comptn. App (AT) No. 3 of 2022) to be heard but

only directed the Commission to hear all the `Stakeholders'. However,

the `1st Respondent/CCI' had allowed a third person / `CAIT' to take part

in the hearing in the `Show Cause Notice Proceedings' against the

`Appellant/Amazon'. 360. The version of the Learned Counsel for the 2 nd

Respondent/Amazon is that in the detailed oral hearing on 22.09.2021

when the `1st Respondent/CCI had heard the `Appellant' in a detailed oral

hearing, `CAIT' was not part of the proceedings. In fact, on 15.11.2021,

the Commission had directed the `FCPL' and the `Appellant' to file their

pleading Viz. Reply and Rejoinder and the hearing was slated on

04.01.2022. Indeed, CAIT's letter dated 08.11.2021 was not part of the

`Commission's record as on 23.11.2021, when an inspection of

Commission's record pertaining to the `Show Cause Proceedings' was

conducted by the `Appellant'. In reality, the `Show Cause Notice' was

not issued pursuant to any information provided by the `Appellant/CAIT'

(in Comptn. App (AT) No. 3 of 2022). Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 295 of 310 361. The Learned Counsel for the `2nd Respondent/Amazon'

vehemently takes a plea that both the Appellants in Comptn. App (AT)

Nos. 2 and 3 of 2022, have `abused the process of law' by filing these

two Appeals and they have no `Locus' to assail the `impugned order'

dated 28.11.2019, passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' under Section 53B of the Competition Act, 2002. 362. Further, the aforesaid `Two Appellants' are not affected by the

`Combination' or the `Approval Order' being `kept on hold'. Besides

this, this `Appellate Tribunal' is not empowered to assess as to whether

there was `AAEC' or otherwise. Neither the `1st Respondent/CCI' nor the

aforesaid `Appellants' have been able to exhibit that the notified

transactions caused any `AAEC' in the Indian market, even after two

years of consummation. 363. The Learned Counsel for the `2nd Respondent/Amazon' points out

that the `Appellant/AICPDF' (in Comptn. App (AT) No.2 of 2022) is

acting as `Proxy Litigant' for `Future Group' and `Appellant/CAIT' (in

Comptn. App (AT) No. 3 of 2022. As a matter of fact, both the

`Appellants' in the aforesaid two Appeals should have preferred an

`Petition' for `impleadment' before the Commission showing tangible

interest in the outcome of `Show Cause Proceedings' against the

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 296 of 310 `Appellant' and only then, the `Commission' was under an obligation to

pass an order of `impleadment of CAIT', as a necessary party, in public

interests, in the outcome of `SCN' proceedings. 364. The Learned Counsel for the `2nd Respondent/Amazon' contends

that `Amazon' (Appellant in Comptn. App (AT) No. 1 of 2022 has not

committed any fraud upon the `1st Respondent/CCI' in obtaining an

`Approval' for its investment in `Future Group' and that it had disclosed

all material particulars pertaining to its investment in `Future Group'. Equally, there was no misrepresentation from the `Appellant/Amazon's

`Response to Query 6.7 of Form I', wherein the `Amazon/Appellant' had

stated that `the `Proposed Combination' pertains to overall retail market

in India, etc.'

2nd Respondent/Amazon's Decisions: 365. On behalf of the 2nd Respondent/Amazon, the Learned Counsel for

the 2nd Respondent/Amazon refers to the decision of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India in Bhaurao Dagdu Paralkar V State of

Maharashtra and Others (2005) 7 SCC 605, wherein it is observed that

non-disclosure of information that was not required to be disclosed, will

not amount to `Fraud'. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 297 of 310 366. It is represented on the side of the 2nd Respondent/Amazon that the

bundle of rights flowing from `FCPL SHA' and `FRL' was fully

disclosed in the main Notification Form as well as in the subsequent

responses. Therefore, there is no `aspect of any suppression or

concealment of the alleged rights granted to the Amazon, by virtue of its

investment in `2nd Respondent/FCPL'. Added further, there was no

concealment of control related rights, to avoid notifying the real

transaction. There was full disclosure relating to `FRL', `FRL SHA' and

`BCAs' notwithstanding the fact that `BCAs' were not related to the

`notified combination'. 367. The Learned Counsel for the `2nd Respondent/Amazon' brings to

the notice of this `Tribunal' the `Appellant/Amazon' investment in `2nd

Respondent/FCPL' was under `IOCC Structure'. In fact, the rights

accruing to the Appellant/Amazon under `FCPL SHA' was not to be read

without reference to `FRL SHA', since several of these rights contained

express reference to `FRL SHA'. Furthermore, nowhere in the

`Notification', the `Appellant/Amazon' had urge the `1 st

Respondent/CCI' not to examine the `BCAs'. In short, it is the

submission of the Learned Counsel for the 2nd Respondent/Amazon the

allegation of `Fraud' levelled against it is without any basis. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 298 of 310 Discussions: 368. It is to be pointed out that `an Informant' need not be an `affected

party' to prefer a case before the `1st Respondent/Commission'. An

`Informant' need not necessarily be `an Aggrieved / Affected Party' to

file a case before the `1st Respondent/Commission'. In fact, there is

nothing in the Section 18 and 19 read with Section 26 (1) of the

Competition Act, 2002, from which, one can come to a conclusion that

the `1st Respondent/Commission' has power to deny the `Reliefs' sought

for, in respect of an `Investigation' into an `Allegation' pertaining to Section 3 and 4 of the Competition Act, 2002, on the basis that the

`Informant' has `no personal interest' in the matter, or he appears to be

acting at the instance of someone else. 369. To put it succinctly, the Competition Act, 2002 , does not prescribe

`any qualification' for a `person', who desires to file an `information'

under Section 19 (1) (a) of the Competition Act, 2002. 370. Considering the fact that the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in

W.P.(C) 12889/21 (Confederation of All India Traders V Union of India

and Another) filed by the Confederation of All India Traders (Appellant

in Comptn. App (AT) No. 3 of 2002) had passed an `Order' dated

16.11.2021 in directing the `1st Respondent/CCI' to determine the issue

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 299 of 310 raised in the `1st Respondent/CCI's `Show Cause Notice' dated

04.06.2021 within a period of two weeks' from today, and the said

decision to be taken after giving an opportunity of hearing to the

`Stakeholders', this `Tribunal' unhesitatingly holds that the `Appellants'

in Comptn. Appeal (AT) Nos. 2 and 3 of 2022 (`AICPDF' and `CAIT')

do have the `Locus' to prefer these `Two Appeals' and as such, the said

`Appeals' are `maintainable in Law' and answered accordingly. 371. Although, the `Appellant' (`AICPDF') in Comptn. App (AT) No.

02 of 2022, has prayed for setting aside the `Approval Order' dated

28.11.2019 to the limited extent stating that the `1st Respondent/CCI'

cannot examine a `Transaction' which is an `illegality' and further that

the `1st Respondent/CCI' cannot approve a `Transaction' which is in

`negation to law' and as such, the `Commission' should have revoked the

`Approval Order' dated 28.11.2019, all the more, when there was no

valid `Notice' at all, in the `eye of law', there was blatant suppression

and misrepresentation and moreover, in the absence of a valid `Notice',

the Appellant/Amazon's `Proposed Combination' could not at all take

effect or exist, in the `eye of law' and is `void ab initio' and that apart,

the `1st Respondent/CCI' should not have `kept on hold' the `Approval

Order' dated 28.11.2019, etc., it is pertinently pointed out by this

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 300 of 310 `Tribunal' that the `1st Respondent/CCI' (as a `Statutory Regulator'),

keeping in tune with the objectives of `Competition Law' in our Country,

to reach the highest sustainable level of economic growth,

entrepreneurship, to promote sustainable and economic development,

support good governance, etc., has wide powers to keep the `Approval'

granted by it `on Hold' / `Abeyance', etc., as per Section 45 (2) of the

Competition Act, 2002, when the `Commission', earlier, came to a

conclusion that Section 44 of the Competition Act, 2002, was breached

vis-à-vis `Combination Approval' by the `Appellant/Amazon'. Suffice it

for this `Tribunal', to point out that the `Power given to the `1st

Respondent/CCI' to even annul an `Approval Order', takes within its

purview to `keep on hold, the `Approval Order' dated 28.11.2019 in

`Abeyance', when it provided an opportunity to the `Appellant/Amazon'

to present `Form II' afresh. Looking at from any angle, the Comptn. App

(AT) No. 02 of 2022 sans merits. Conclusion (Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022): Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 301 of 310 Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022: 2019/09/688 (`impugned order') to the limited extent of findings

rendered in paragraph 80 of the said order, wherein the `1 st

Respondent/CCI', although had categorically held that the `2nd

Respondent/Amazon.com NV Investments Holdings LLC had by

deliberate design made `false statement' and `suppressed' and

`misrepresented' material information to the `1st Respondent/CCI', failed

to revoke the `Approval' and only directed that the `Approval Order'

dated 28.11.2019, be kept in abeyance. 374. The `1st Respondent/Competition Commission of India', while

passing the `impugned order' dated 17.12.2021 (in respect of

proceedings) against the `2nd Respondent/Amazon.com NV Investment

Holdings LLC (Appellant in Competition App (AT) No. 01 of 2022)

(under Sections 43A , 44 and 45 of the Competition Act, 2002), at

paragraph nos. 74 to 84, had observed the following: and that FCPL SSA and FCPL SHA are the only two agreements
 entered into between the parties in relation to the Combination.
 The manner and extent of assertions regarding FRL SHA is that
 the same was a pre-existing arrangement amongst the
 shareholders of FRL, executed pursuant to the Warrants
 Transaction, and it was negotiated independent of Transaction III
 i.e., acquisition of 49% stake in FCPL by Amazon. The inter-
 connection between FRL SHA and the Combination was

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 303 of 310 suppressed. Similarly, the BCAs, although disclosed, were claimed
 as neither inter-connected with, nor a part of the Combination.
 However, the Internal Correspondence brings out that BCAs and
 acquisition of strategic rights over FRL, through the acquisition of
 shares in FCPL, had been considered together as parts of one
 composite package, viz., 'Project Taj [Future Group] - Investment
 in National Multi-category Copperfield Seller'. FCPL was merely
 a vehicle for Amazon to acquire interest over FRL, and such
 interest was considered necessary to implement strategic
 alignments between the business activities of Future and Amazon
 groups in India. 76. The learned counsel appearing for Amazon argued that it had
 disclosed FRL as a material entity, the object of attention and that
 its businesses were essential consideration for Amazon to pursue
 the Combination. This does not meet the requirement of
 notification in Form I read with Regulation 5(2) of the
 Combination Regulations and Section 6(2) of the Act. It is true that
 Amazon had disclosed several materials relating to the
 overlapping business activities of the parties to the Combination,
 FRL and other affiliates. However, such disclosures relating to the
 overlapping activities of Amazon group and FRL were claimed to
 be by way of abundant caution as FCPL held warrants issued by
 FRL38 (. Amazon has not provided any details in the context of the
 actual combination, including FRL SHA and BCAs, being pursued
 for strategic alignments between the business activities of Amazon
 group and FRL / its affiliates. In the letter dated 24th October,
 2019 of the Commission, the following specific query was posed to
 Amazon: '2.9 According to the notice, in certain overlapping
 segments of the areas of the operations of the parties, the combined
 market shares are exceeding the thresholds given in regulation 5
 (3) of the Combination regulations, you are required to provide
 justification for filing the notice in Form I'. In response, Amazon
 had inter alia submitted that: 77. The Commission notes that the details of overlap between FRL
 and Amazon Group, provided in the Notice, and subsequent
 submissions of Amazon as well as the competition assessment
 conducted in the Approval Order are in the context of FCPL
 holding warrants in FRL. However, the said assessment is
 definitely not from the perspective of strategic alignments between
 FRL and Amazon Group. This is obvious from the Approval Order
 as it does not make any reference to FRL SHA or the BCAs. The
 Commission observes that the effect of commercial contracts
 entered into between FRL and Amazon Group entities, in their
 normal course of business, would be considerably different from
 parties contemplating strategic alignments between their business
 through strategic investments. The regulatory process of
 notification by the parties that would follow an admission of the
 commercial contracts being part of the combination and also the
 purpose of the strategic acquisition of shares and rights would
 entail consequential presentation of facts, representations,
 clarifications and undertakings, if any, which would not be present
 when such contracts are independent of the combination. The
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 305 of 310 nature of inquiry by the Commission in these cases would also be
 necessarily with due regard to the acquisition and contracts being
 part of one single understanding to establish a strategic
 partnership. This regulatory process, in itself, makes the notifying
 party to furnish true, correct and complete information regarding
 the actual combination pursued by the parties and thus, meet the
 requirements of the Act and the Regulations framed thereunder.
 Concurrently, such process would enable the Commission to
 appreciate the combination in its actual sense, and accordingly,
 discharge its functions in terms of the Act. If one were to argue
 otherwise, it would be sufficient that the notice filed with the
 Commission merely describes the name of the parties and their
 business activities and there would be no need to give any other
 detail as required in Form I or Form II, including the scope of
 arrangements, their purposes and context of the combination. This
 is ex facie contrary to the scheme and intendment of the Act and
 Combination Regulations. 78. The above discussed omissions, false statements and
 misrepresentations have the effect of influencing the line of inquiry
 in assessing the Combination. Irrespective of what would have
 been the outcome of a notice with true, correct and complete
 disclosures, the misleading submissions, false statements,
 omission and suppression of material particulars, facts and
 documents discussed above, have denied and disabled the
 Commission an opportunity to assess the effects of the actual
 Combination, with specific focus to the actual intended objectives.
 Condonation of such lapses would effectively mean that a notifying
 party could disclose its legal contracts in a distorted and elongated
 manner of its convenience and engage in suppressions and
 misrepresentations of the actual scope and purpose of the
 Combination. This makes all details sought in Form I and purpose
 of regulation of combination under the Act, otiose, besides
 stultifying the very legislative intent for merger review process. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 306 of 310 79. In sum, Amazon ought to have notified the combination, inter
 alia, consisting of the following inter-connected steps: (a)
 Transaction I; (b) Transaction II; (c) Transaction III; (d) FRL
 SHA for the purpose of acquisition of strategic rights over FRL
 through FCPL SHA; and (e) commercial agreements between
 Amazon and Future groups, for the purpose of establishing
 strategic alignment and partnership between Amazon Group and
 FRL as well as have a 'foot-in-the-door' in the India retail sector.
 Amazon failed to notify FRL SHA and the commercial
 arrangements, as parts of the combination between the parties,
 and supressed the actual purpose and particulars of the
 combination, as discussed above, in contravention of the
 obligation contained in subsection (2) of Section 6 of the Act read
 with Regulation 5 and sub-regulations (4) and (5) of Regulation 9
 of the Combination Regulations. 80. Given that the Combination is between players who are known
 in the online marketplace and offline retailing and they have
 contemplated strategic alignment between their businesses, the
 Commission considers it necessary to examine the combination
 afresh based on a notice to be given in Form II with true, correct
 and complete information, as required therein. Accordingly, in
 exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (2) of Section
 45 of the Act, the Commission hereby directs Amazon to give notice
 in Form II within a period of 60 days from the receipt of this order,
 and, till disposal of such notice, the approval granted vide Order
 dated 28th November, 2019, in Combination Registration No. C-
 2019/09/688, shall remain in abeyance. 81. In terms of Section 43A of the Act, if any person or enterprise
 fails to give notice under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act,
 the Commission shall impose on such person or enterprise a
 penalty which may extend to one percent of the total turnover or
 the assets, whichever is higher, of such a combination. In case of
 a contravention under Sections 44 and 45 of the Act, each of the
 said provision renders the contravening person liable, inter alia,
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 307 of 310 to a penalty, as provided therein. Though the penalty under Sections 43A , 44 and 45 of the Act can be to the extent mentioned
 therein, the Commission has sufficient discretion to consider the
 conduct of the parties and the circumstances of the case to arrive
 at an appropriate amount of penalty. 82. In the instant case, all the contraventions discussed above arise
 from a deliberate design on the part of Amazon to suppress the
 actual scope and purpose of the Combination, and the Commission
 finds no mitigating factor. Resultantly, the Commission considers
 it appropriate to levy the maximum penalty of INR One Crore each
 under the provisions of Section 44 and Section 45 of Act.
 Accordingly, Amazon is directed to pay a penalty of INR Two
 Crore. 83. As regards failure to notify combination in terms of the
 obligation cast under Section 6(2) of the Act, Section 43A of the
 Act enables the Commission to impose a penalty, which may
 extend to one percent of the total turnover or the assets, whichever
 is higher, of such a combination. Accordingly, for the above
 mentioned reasons, the Commission hereby imposes a penalty of
 INR Two Hundred Crore upon Amazon. 84. Amazon is directed to pay monetary penalty as imposed vide
 paras 82 and 83 above, within a period of 60 days from the receipt
 of this order." 375. In the instant `Appeal' (Comptn. App (AT) No. 03 of 2022
notwithstanding the fact that the `Appellant/CAIT' has prayed for setting
the `impugned order' dated 17.12.2021 passed by the `1 st
Respondent/CCI' (to a limited extent), to set aside the `Approval Order'
dated 28.11.2019, passed by the `1st Respondent/CCI' in `Notice' dated
23.09.2019 (Registration No.C-2019/09/688) filed by the

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 308 of 310 `Appellant/Amazon', among other grounds that a `Party' cannot get away
from the consequences of `suppression', `false statements' and
`misrepresentations', and that the direction of the `1st Respondent/CCI'
in permitting a `Notification' is in effect, condoning the serious offences
of the `Appellant/Amazon', etc. 376. This `Tribunal' taking note of the fact that the `1 st
Respondent/CCI' has wide powers (including the residuary powers) as
per Section 45 (2) of the Competition Act, 2002, besides, the `inherent
implied powers' as a `Statutory Regulator', to satisfy the aim and
objective of the Competition Act, 2002 , is of the cock sure opinion that
the power of the `1st Respondent/CCI' to grant an `Approval' includes
the power to keep its `Order' in `Abeyance', when the
`Appellant/Amazon' had breached vis-à-vis `Combination Approval'
and as such, even though the `Appellant' as a `Stakeholder' / `Aggrieved'
has filed the instant Comptn. App (AT) No. 03 of 2002, the same being
maintainable, is not entitled to the `Reliefs' prayed for in the subject
matter in issue, in the present `Appeal'. Consequently, the Comptn. App
(AT) No. 03 of 2022 is devoid of merits. Result (Competition App (AT) No. 03 of 2022): 377. In fine, the Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 is dismissed. No costs. IA Nos. 140, 141 and 142 of 2022 in Competition Appeal (AT)

No. 03 of 2022 are closed. Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 309 of 310 The `Office of the Registry' is directed to send copy of this

`Judgment' to the `Parties' in Comptn. App (AT) No. 1, Comptn. App

(AT) No. 2 and Comptn. App (AT) No. 3 of 2022, accordingly. [Justice M. Venugopal]
 Member (Judicial)

 [Dr. Ashok Kumar Mishra]
 Member (Technical)

13/06/2022
SR/GC

Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 02 of 2022
Competition Appeal (AT) No. 03 of 2022 Page 310 of 310