INDEX TO THE JUDGMENT
 BACKGROUND OF THE CASE ................................................................... 3
 I. Facts of the Case ...................................................................................................... 3
 II. The Investigation ..................................................................................................... 5
 ARGUMENTS ADDRESSED BEFORE THIS COURT .............................. 7
 QUASHING OF FIR ON THE BASIS OF SETTLEMENT: PRINCIPLES
 TO BE FOLLOWED ....................................................................................... 8
 I. General Principles .................................................................................................... 9
 II. Can FIR registered under Section 376 of IPC be Quashed on the Basis of
 Compromise? .......................................................................................................... 12
 ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS ........................................................................ 13 Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 1 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 I. Circumstances Leading To Execution Of Settlement Agreement Between
 The Accused And The Victim In the Present Case .......................................... 13
 Contents of Settlement Agreement .............................................................. 14
 II. Beyond Bargain: Can Monetary Consideration Become Ground for
 Quashing FIR Registered under Section 376 of IPC? ...................................... 15
 III. The Role of Learned Trial Court ......................................................................... 18
 CONCLUSION...............................................................................................20

 SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. 1. At the threshold of adjudication in the present case lies an
 important question for consideration: Should this Court invoke its
 inherent powers to quash an FIR alleging commission of offence of
 rape, on the ground of matter having been compromised between the
 accused and the victim? What increases this dilemma is the
 revelation that the very suggestion to explore such a compromise
 emanated not from the disputing parties, but from the learned Trial
 Judge itself. 2. The petitioner has approached this Court, by way of present
 petition filed under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
 1973 („ Cr.P.C .‟), seeking quashing of FIR bearing no. 389/2020,
 registered against the petitioner at Police Station Vasant Kunj North,
 Delhi, for the offence punishable under Section 376 of the Indian
 Penal Code, 1860 („ IPC ‟) and all consequential proceedings
 emanating therefrom, on the ground that the matter has been settled
 and compromised between the parties. 3. On, 15.10.2020, a complaint was received by the police against
 the accused i.e. petitioner, regarding commission of rape and
 blackmailing the victim i.e. respondent no. 2 by extending threats of
 making her photographs viral on social media. The victim had
 mentioned in her complaint that her husband used to remain out of
 station most of the time, and in the month of April, she had
 befriended the accused/petitioner on Facebook, who had
 impersonated himself as a traffic policeman, who was a bachelor and
 deployed on duty in Tughlaqabad, Delhi. The victim had sent a
 message to him and thereafter, she had also disclosed her address to
 him. As alleged, the accused had visited her at 6:00 AM on
 23.08.2020 when her husband had gone out, and he had also brought
 some snacks and cold drinks. The accused had asked the victim to
 bring a glass and had poured the cold drink into that glass and had
 offered the same to her. It is alleged that the victim had become
 unconscious immediately after drinking the cold drink and when she
 had regained consciousness, she had found herself in bed, without
 any clothes, and the accused was also sitting on the bed. The accused
 had then shown her some nude photographs and had told her that
 from now onwards, she will have to follow the commands of the
 accused, or else, he would upload her inappropriate photographs on
 social media. It is further alleged that the accused had also told her
 that he will send a boy in the evening and she should come along Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 3 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 with him. At about 7:30 PM on the same day, a boy had come outside
 her house in a white colour Santro Car, and he had taken her in the
 said vehicle to a hotel. The accused had met the victim there and had
 taken her to a hotel located in front of Gurgaon Bus Stand and had
 committed rape upon her at 12:30 AM including unnatural sex with
 her forcibly, and had thereafter dropped her at her house on the next
 day morning. He had also allegedly extended threats to her that if she
 disclosed the details of these incidents to anyone, he would post her
 photographs on social media and also show the same to her parents
 and her husband. The accused had also told her that whenever he
 would call, she would have to come, or else, he would kill her
 husband. On 02.09.2020, the accused had visited the victim's house
 and had again established physical relations forcibly against her wish
 by extending the same threats to her. She had not disclosed anything
 to anyone or to the police as she was scared. The accused had also
 taken her to a hotel in Tughalqabad, Delhi many times and had
 committed rape upon her, and had also administered medicines to her
 on several occasions. Allegedly, the accused had also threatened her
 that since he was in Police, she could do no harm to him even by
 lodging a complaint, and rather, he would be able to defame her in
 the society. The accused had also shown photographs of several girls
 in his mobile phone to the victim, who were in naked condition and
 had told her that he had indulged in wrongful acts with all of them
 but no one was able to make any complaint against him due to his
 contacts and approach. Thereafter, the accused had kept on
 committing rape upon the victim by blackmailing her on several Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 4 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 occasions. On 01.10.2020, the accused had come to the house of
 victim when she was alone, and had established physical relations
 against her wish and had told her that he had been transferred to
 Bihar and that she should accompany him to Bihar. When she had
 refused to do so, he had told her neighbours that she was his wife and
 she was married to him and he had also shown photographs of hers
 with him and had told her that if she did not accompany him to Bihar,
 he would kill her husband. On 04.10.2019 at about 6:00 AM in the
 morning, she had received a phone call that she should come to Bihar
 as early as possible or else, he would get his husband killed. In these
 circumstances, the victim had then made a complaint to the police.
 When she had told the accused that she would lodge a complaint with
 the police, he had sent Rs.27,000/- through PhonePe to her at about
 3:30 PM on 05.10.2020, which she had given back to him at the same
 time. The victim alleged that the accused had committed rape upon
 her, prepared her inappropriate photographs and had extended threats
 to her and her family members and therefore, legal action should be
 taken against him. II. The Investigation 4. During the course of investigation, the victim was medically
 examined, and her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was also
 recorded before the learned Magistrate. The mobile phone of the
 victim was also taken into possession by the police. During
 investigation, the account details of the complainant and the accused Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 5 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 were also obtained, which revealed several entries of exchange of
 money. The same reads as under: 5. The accused was granted interim protection by the learned
 Sessions Court on 06.11.2020 with direction to join the investigation.
 Mobile phone of the accused was also seized. The accused had
 informed the police that he was in a consensual relationship with the
 victim, and he even used to help her monetarily. 6. Notices under Section 91 of Cr.P.C. were also served upon
 some Hotels in question, and details of the accused and victim in the
 entry registers were obtained. CDR analysis and phone location Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 6 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 analysis was also carried out. After conclusion of investigation,
 chargesheet was filed for commission of offence under Sections
 376 / 377 / 328 / 506 of IPC. 7. Thereafter, first supplementary chargesheet was filed
 alongwith the FSL reports received qua the voice samples of the
 victim. Second supplementary chargesheet was also filed containing
 the FSL report and analysis of the mobile phone of the
 accused/petitioner. ARGUMENTS ADDRESSED BEFORE THIS COURT 8. Learned counsel for the petitioner has argued that the victim
 and the accused were in a consensual relationship for a very long
 period of time, and the petitioner was falsely implicated in this case.
 It is submitted by the learned counsel that on 08.12.2023, the learned
 Trial Court had put a specific query to the victim i.e. respondent no. 2
 regarding settlement of the case, to which she had agreed to settle the
 matter. Consequently, the parties have arrived at a compromise and
 have entered into a Settlement Agreement dated 06.01.2024. It is
 stated that as per the said Settlement Agreement, the petitioner has
 agreed to pay a sum of Rs.3,50,000/- to the victim/ respondent no. 2,
 and the victim has admitted that whatever had happened between her
 and the petitioner, was out of her free will and they were in a
 consensual relationship. It is further pointed out that the Agreement
 mentions that the respondent no. 2 has also accepted that she has
 deposed against the petitioner in her statement recorded under Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 7 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 Sections 161 and 164 of Cr.P.C. and during her examination-in-chief
 before the learned Trial Court, due to misunderstanding. Therefore, it
 is prayed that the FIR in question be quashed, since the matter has
 been settled between the parties. 9. Learned APP for the State, on the other hand, argues that the
 allegations against the petitioner/accused are serious and grave in
 nature, and the victim has supported the case of prosecution in her
 statements recorded under Section 161 and 164 of Cr.P.C. as well as
 before the learned Trial Court. It is prayed that since the settlement
 agreement in this case clearly reveals that the accused is paying
 money to the victim to get the FIR in question quashed, the present
 petition therefore should be dismissed. 10. This Court has heard arguments advanced on behalf of both the
 parties, and has gone through the material that is available on record. QUASHING OF FIR ON THE BASIS OF SETTLEMENT: 11. The petitioner and respondent no. 2 have approached this
 Court, seeking quashing of FIR registered for offence under Section
 376 of IPC. In such circumstances, this Court has to remain guided
 by the principles propounded by the Hon'ble Apex Court, which
 govern the Constitutional Courts while adjudicating petitions seeking
 quashing of criminal proceedings on the basis of settlement/
 compromise. I. General Principles 12. The Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Narinder Singh v. State of
 Punjab (2014) 6 SCC 466, after taking note of its earlier decision in
 case of Gian Singh v. State of Punjab (2012) 10 SCC 303, had laid
 down the following principles which would guide High Courts in
 adjudicating cases relating to quashing of criminal proceedings on the
 basis of settlement: (Emphasis supplied) 13. In Parbatbhai Aahir Alias Parbathbhai Bhimsinhbhai
 Karmur v. State of Gujrat (2017) 9 SCC 641, three-Judge Bench of
 the Hon'ble Apex Court, after referring to several judicial precedents,
 had summarized the following principles: While compounding an offence, the power of the court is
 governed by the provisions of Section 320 of the Criminal
 Procedure Code, 1973. The power to quash under Section
 482 is attracted even if the offence is non-compoundable. 16.3. In forming an opinion whether a criminal proceeding or
 complaint should be quashed in exercise of its jurisdiction
 under Section 482, the High Court must evaluate whether the
 ends of justice would justify the exercise of the inherent
 power. 16.4. While the inherent power of the High Court has a wide
 ambit and plenitude it has to be exercised (i) to secure the
 ends of justice, or (ii) to prevent an abuse of the process of
 any court. 16.5. The decision as to whether a complaint or first
 information report should be quashed on the ground that the
 offender and victim have settled the dispute, revolves
 ultimately on the facts and circumstances of each case and no
 exhaustive elaboration of principles can be formulated.
 16.6. In the exercise of the power under Section 482 and
 while dealing with a plea that the dispute has been settled,
 the High Court must have due regard to the nature and
 gravity of the offence. Heinous and serious offences
 involving mental depravity or offences such as murder,
 rape and dacoity cannot appropriately be quashed though
 the victim or the family of the victim have settled the
 dispute. Such offences are, truly speaking, not private in
 nature but have a serious impact upon society. The
 decision to continue with the trial in such cases is founded
 on the overriding element of public interest in punishing
 persons for serious offences. 16.7. As distinguished from serious offences, there may be
 criminal cases which have an overwhelming or predominant
 element of a civil dispute. They stand on a distinct footing
 insofar as the exercise of the inherent power to quash is
 concerned. 16.8. Criminal cases involving offences which arise from
 commercial, financial, mercantile, partnership or similar
 transactions with an essentially civil flavour may in
 appropriate situations fall for quashing where parties have
 settled the dispute. 16.9. In such a case, the High Court may quash the criminal
 proceeding if in view of the compromise between the
 disputants, the possibility of a conviction is remote and the
 continuation of a criminal proceeding would cause
 oppression and prejudice; and Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 11 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 16.10. There is yet an exception to the principle set out in
 propositions 16.8. and 16.9. above. Economic offences
 involving the financial and economic well-being of the State
 have implications which lie beyond the domain of a mere
 dispute between private disputants. The High Court would be
 justified in declining to quash where the offender is involved
 in an activity akin to a financial or economic fraud or
 misdemeanour. The consequences of the act complained of
 upon the financial or economic system will weigh in the
 balance." (Emphasis supplied)

 II. Can FIR registered under Section 376 of IPC be Quashed
 on the Basis of Compromise? 14. If one takes note of the above-referred precedents, it would
 emerge that the consistent view that has been expressed by the
 Hon'ble Apex Court in catena of judgments is that an FIR which has
 been registered for commission of serious offences, including offence
 of rape, should not be quashed on the basis of settlement or
 compromise arrived at between the victim and the accused. 15. In State of M.P. v. Madanlal (2015) 7 SCC 681, the Hon'ble
 Apex Court had expressed that: 16. At the same time, it is also true that the Hon'ble Apex Court
 has also expressed that it is not an absolute rule that the FIR
 registered for offence under Section 376 of IPC cannot be quashed on
 the basis of compromise in any case. However, it is important to note
 that such cases adjudicated by the Constitutional Courts, including
 the Hon'ble Apex Court and the High Courts, often relate to those Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 12 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 situations where the victim and the accused are in relationship for a
 long period of time and FIR is registered owing to some
 misunderstanding, and they later get married to each other and start
 living together. Such intervention may also be made in cases where
 prosecution for offence under Section 376 of IPC has been an
 offshoot of some matrimonial dispute, in larger interest and for
 ensuring justice. 17. Needless to say, while adjudicating quashing petitions in such
 cases, the Courts will have to analyse all the facts and circumstances
 of a case including the contents of the FIR, statement of the victim
 recorded before the Magistrate, testimony recorded before the Trial
 Court, terms of settlement, et al.

 ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS

 I. Circumstances Leading To Execution Of Settlement
 Agreement Between The Accused And The Victim In the Present
 Case 18. The proceedings that took place in the present case are crucial
 to be taken note of. It is clearly revealed from the chargesheet, as
 well as from the contents of petition, that the victim/respondent no. 2
 had levelled serious allegations of rape on multiple occasions,
 blackmailing the victim and extending threats to her, unnatural sexual
 intercourse, etc. against the accused/petitioner. She had reiterated her
 version given at the time of registration of FIR, in her statement
 recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. before the learned Magistrate. Charges in this case were framed against the accused, and the trial
 had begun. Thereafter, two supplementary chargesheets were also
 filed before the learned Trial Court. Charge was framed against the
 accused under Sections 376 / 328 / 354C / 506 / 376(2)(n) of IPC vide
 order dated 05.04.2022. 19. This Court further notes that the examination-in-chief of
 respondent no. 2 i.e. the victim in this case had also been recorded
 partly before the learned Trial Court on 17.07.2023, wherein also, she
 had supported the case of prosecution and deposed against the
 present petitioner. There are specific allegations in the testimony
 regarding accused intoxicating the victim at her home and then
 establishing physical relations with her, without her consent, as well
 as of recording inappropriate photographs and videos of the victim
 and thereafter extending threats to her. Thereafter, the accused had
 allegedly established physical relations with the victim forcefully on
 two other occasions also and had extended threats to her. 20. However, as informed to this Court and as mentioned in the
 settlement agreement, the learned Trial Judge had asked the
 victim on 08.12.2023 as to whether she wished to settle the matter
 with the accused. It was on this query put by the learned Trial Judge,
 that the accused and the victim had decided to compromise the
 matter. Contents of Settlement Agreement 21. Since the quashing of FIR has been sought on the strength of a
 Settlement Agreement entered into between the accused and the Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 14 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 victim, the contents of the Agreement dated 06.01.2024, relevant to
 be considered, are reproduced hereunder: II. Beyond Bargain: Can Monetary Consideration Become
 Ground for Quashing FIR Registered under Section 376 of IPC? 22. A bare perusal of the Settlement Agreement entered into
 between the accused and the victim would reveal that the first clause
 of the agreement mentions that the accused would pay Rs. 3.5 lakhs
 to the victim in the present case, if the FIR is quashed by this Court. 23. Money, it seems, is to be exchanged for getting a quietus to
 the present criminal proceedings for offence of rape--a
 proposition that is not only immoral but also strikes at the very
 core of our criminal justice system. 24. In this Court's opinion, the offence of rape is a heinous
 violation of a woman's bodily autonomy and it stands as an offence
 against the society. While the Courts are often tasked with the
 responsibility of ensuring fairness and at times, reconciliation
 between the parties, there are certain areas where compromise is not
 only inappropriate but also fundamentally unjust. 25. To allow a settlement, such as the present one, to crystallize
 would amount to trivializing the sufferings of a rape victim, and
 reducing her anguish to a mere transaction. It would amount to giving
 a message to perpetrators of such offence that heinous act of rape can
 be absolved by paying money to the victim, a notion that is as
 repugnant as it is repulsive. 26. It is also strange to note that on one hand, the Settlement
 Agreement mentions that the accused and the victim were in
 consensual relationship and the victim had deposed against the
 accused before the police, Magistrate, and Trial Court due to
 misunderstanding. However, the same is at odds with the fact that the
 accused is offering to pay a substantial amount of Rs. 3.5 lakhs to the
 victim, as a part and parcel of compromise arrived at between them.
 This raises significant doubts and uncertainties about the claims made
 within the Settlement Agreement. If the victim's prior statements
 given to the police, and to the learned Magistrate and before the Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 16 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 learned Trial Court were indeed based on a misunderstanding arising
 from a consensual relationship, the need for monetary compensation
 to settle the matter becomes questionable. Conversely, if the accused
 is offering money to the victim, it may also imply an
 acknowledgment of guilt on his part, which contradicts the assertion
 of a consensual relationship. 27. Thus, the motives and intentions behind the proposed
 compromise, as well as the credibility of the assertions made by both
 parties are unclear at this stage. The potential manipulation or
 coercion of the victim into accepting the settlement, particularly in
 light of the serious nature of the allegations involved in the case,
 cannot also be ruled out. At the same time, this Court also cannot
 discover as to whether the allegations levelled against the accused by
 the victim were true or not, since this can only determined after a
 full-fledged trial. 28. Though the learned counsel for the petitioner has relied upon
 the decision of Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Kapil Gupta v. State
 of NCT of Delhi Crl.Appeal.No.1217/2022 to contend that FIR for
 offence of rape can be quashed on the basis of compromise, there is
 no gainsaying that every case has to be decided on its own merits as
 well as facts and circumstances. In case of Kapil Gupta (supra), it
 was categorically expressed by the Hon'ble Apex Court that the stage
 of proceedings is a relevant consideration while deciding quashing
 petitions, and in the case before the Hon'ble Apex Court, the
 chargesheets had been filed but the charges had yet not been framed
 and thus, the trial had not begun. Contrary to this, in the case at hand, Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 17 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 the trial has already begun and the victim had also deposed against
 the accused in her partly-recorded examination-in-chief before the
 learned Trial Court. Thus, the decision relied upon by the learned
 counsel for petitioner can be of no help to him. III. The Role of Learned Trial Court 29. This Court is disturbed by the fact that it was the learned Trial
 Court Judge, as stated at bar as well as in the petition which is
 accompanied by an affidavit regarding the truthfulness of averments
 made in the petition, who had enquired from the victim if she wished
 to enter into a compromise with the accused. The Settlement
 Agreement in question also mentions the same, and in fact, the
 Agreement also records that the parties have arrived at an agreement
 "with the aid and assistance of the learned Trial Court". 30. The victim, who was present before this Court, also stated that
 she has entered into a settlement agreement only at the asking of the
 learned Trial Judge and this is mentioned in the Agreement itself,
 which is duly notarized. 31. It was stated at bar, that after the examination-in-chief of the
 victim had been recorded partly, the learned Trial Judge had
 suggested that a certain amount of money be paid to the victim and
 had asked her to settle the matter with the accused. The counsel for
 the accused also submitted before this Court that the counsel was
 present in the Trial Court at the said time, and since they were not Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 18 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 able to pay the said amount, the matter was settled for a lesser
 amount later. 32. The learned Trial Court in this case had framed charges against
 the present petitioner/accused and the prosecution evidence was
 being recorded before it. The victim's examination-in-chief had also
 been recorded partly, in which she had supported the case of
 prosecution, as noted above. Thus, this Court is unable to
 comprehend as to why the learned Trial Court Judge would have
 asked the victim to settle the matter with the accused, which involves
 offences of heinous nature such as Section 376 and 377 of IPC. 33. The role of the judiciary in the criminal justice system is one of
 paramount importance, charged with upholding the basic principles
 of rule of law, and justice, fairness, and impartiality. In cases of
 heinous offences especially such as sexual assault or rape, the Courts
 are tasked with the responsibility of conducting trials that are
 transparent and as per law. Moreover, in cases involving commission
 of offence of rape, the trial must be conducted with utmost sensitivity
 and diligence. 34. The victim, as a key witness, deserves to be treated with
 compassion and respect, and her testimony has to be given due
 weight and consideration. Any suggestion of compromise with the
 accused, particularly coming from the learned Trial Court itself,
 would run counter to the very basic principles of our justice system
 and fair trial. 35. Furthermore, the very notion of suggesting a compromise in a
 case such as the present one reflects a fundamental misunderstanding Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 19 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 of the nature and gravity of offences like rape. These are not matters
 which can be resolved through payment of money or out-of-court
 settlements; they are crimes committed against the individual as well
 as society as a whole, for which accountability has to be fixed,
 perpetrators are to be punished and justice is to be delivered to the
 victims through the judicial process. It goes without saying that it is
 incumbent upon the judiciary to uphold the dignity and rights of
 victims of sexual assault, to ensure that they are afforded full
 protection of the law. 36. Therefore, this Court expresses concern over the conduct of the
 learned Trial Court Judge, if it is true, that the Trial Judge had
 suggested and assisted the accused and the victim, in a case under Section 376 of IPC, to settle the matter, while the same Court was
 recording the prosecution evidence. CONCLUSION 37. Time and again, the Hon'ble Apex Court as well as this Court
 has held that criminal proceedings arising out of heinous offence
 such as rape cannot be quashed, merely on the basis of some
 settlement agreement executed between the accused and the victim,
 except in cases where there may be extraordinary circumstances to
 show that continuation of criminal proceedings in a case of serious
 nature would in fact result in abuse of process of law or miscarriage
 of justice. As expressed in case of State of M.P. v. Madanlal (supra), Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 20 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 under no circumstance can one even think of compromise in a case of
 rape. 38. In the present case, the victim had levelled serious allegations
 of sexual assault against the accused i.e. petitioner herein in her
 initial complaint, and the same were supported in the statement
 recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. as well as in her party-
 recorded testimony before the learned Trial Court. The prosecution
 evidence is being recorded in the present case, and the allegations
 against the accused are serious in nature of establishing physical
 relations without consent, blackmailing, and threat of killing the
 family members of the victim and posting her objectionable
 photographs on social media. Whether the relationship was
 consensual or non-consensual is a matter of trial and in case it would
 have been found at a later stage that the victim had leveled false
 allegations against the accused, the Court was at liberty to take
 appropriate action against her. 39. However, this Court is concerned that in case, the learned Trial
 Court Judge had suggested to the victim that she should enter into a
 compromise with the accused, as stated at bar by the learned counsel
 for the petitioner who was present in the Court at that time and the
 victim in the interaction with this Court, for a certain sum of money,
 which if true, is not acceptable and the Trial Courts need to be
 sensitized in this regard. 40. Be that as it may, this Court is not delving deeper into the issue
 of the compromise being suggested by the learned Trial Court Judge,
 as the petitioners are ultimately seeking quashing based on the Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 21 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15 settlement, which cannot be allowed even on merit sans the
 compromise. 41. Moreover, the Settlement Agreement does not reflect as to why
 the parties have settled the case, except the fact that the victim had
 agreed to settle the case upon being asked by the learned Trial Court
 Judge and that the accused is willing to pay Rs. 3.5 lakhs to the
 victim in exchange of his exoneration in the present case. 42. Thus, having regard to the overall facts and circumstances of
 the case, and the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the
 judicial precedents, this Court is of the considered opinion that the
 present petition for quashing of FIR, on the basis of compromise,
 cannot be allowed. 43. Since this Court has rejected the present petition and the trial is
 to take place before the learned Trial Judge, it will be appropriate and
 in interest of justice, that the case is tried by another judge, lest
 during trial any aspersion is cast regarding fair trial as averments
 were made regarding the conduct of the trial judge in this petition.
 This Court has passed this direction to ensure that justice should not
 only be done but also seem to be done. 44. The judgment be circulated through the learned Registrar
 General, Delhi High Court to all the learned Judges of District Courts
 of Delhi. The covering letter of such circulation will not mention the
 name of the judge of the Trial Court. A copy of the judgment be also
 sent to the Director (Academics), Delhi Judicial Academy for taking
 note of its contents. 45. In view thereof, the present petition stands dismissed. 46. It is however clarified that the observations made hereinabove
 are solely for the purpose of deciding present petition and the same
 shall not affect the merits of the case during the course of trial. 47. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 MARCH 7, 2024/zp Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 753/2024 Page 23 of 23 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:07.03.2024 17:56:15