1.1 These appeals, filed against a common Order-in Appeal No. BR/07 to 08/m-IV/2005 dated 25.1.2005 passed by the Commissioner of Central Excise (Appeals), Mumbai - IV are being disposed by this common order. By the impugned Order, the Commissioner (Appeals) upheld the demand of Service Tax, on the amounts received for activities undertaken for the principals. (who are broadcasting agencies not having office in India) as an 'advertising agency' service provider. 1.2 The details of the impugned order are tabulated below: Rs. 7,66,13,907/- demanded
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Penalty
 
 
 

Rs. 14,75,89,500 + Rs. 500
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

+Rs. 1,000 + (Rs. 200 for
 
 
 

Rs. 7,66,13,907/- + Rs. every day of delay till the
 
 
 

500+ Rs. 1,000+
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

date of payment of service
 
 
 

(Rs. 200 for every day of
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

tax)
 
 
 

delay till the date of
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

payment of service tax)
 
 
 
 
 

Interest
 
 
 

Under Section 75 - not
 
 
 

Under Section 75 - not
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

quantified
 
 
 

quantified. 2.1 Activities undertaken by M/s. Star India Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter also referred to as the appellants) are recorded in Para 13 of the impugned order-in-appeal & the relevant portion is extracted below: b. The representative shall provide STAR with ready to broadcast advertising materials to be included in the programme in a manner which meets the technical specification established by STAR. c. To deliver the invoice raised by STAR TV for the advertisements telecast, collect payments from the advertising agencies/ clients remit the same to STAR TV with necessary permission from Reserve Bank of India. d. Submit periodical report to STAR TV on the market and representative advice with regard to the market. e. Conducting credit investigations of advertisers. f. Render such information, advisory and supervisory services in matters of research and promotion as may be practicable and reasonable for representative or its research and promotion organization. g. Co-operate fully with STAR TV in promoting and advancing its standing as television advertising medium; h. Assisting representative in acting as an advertising representative for STAR for discharging the aforesaid responsibilities, the representative should be paid commission of 15% of "Net Billed Advertising", actually collected by it or recovered by STAR for advertisements solicited by the representative during the term of agreement. 2.2 Nature of activities undertaken by Zee Telefilms (hereinafter also referred to as ZTL) for Asian Broadcasting (hereinafter referred also as ATL). The activities undertaken by the appellants are recorded in Para 13 of the impugned, order-in-appeal (Star India). The relevant portion is extracted below: b. Programming shall be either produced by ZTL or purchased by ZTL or the rights thereto otherwise licensed by ZTL. c. ZTL shall identify ATL against all claims, liabilities or losses arising in relation to any alleged infringement of copyrights, broadcasting or other rights, in relation to the programming. d. ZTL shall retain the copyrights and all broadcasting and other intellectual property rights. e. ZTL will be solely responsible for providing the programming and dubbed programming and if any their party provide any sponsored programme. f. ZTL shall deliver programming and dubbed programming to ATL, CIF Hong Kong. g. ZTL shall maintain records relating to performance of the agreement which may be reviewed and audited by ATL or its professional accountants on reasonable notice and at all reasonable times. h. ZTL shall obtain any required registration and approvals from Government of India's various departments and Associations for production, development and acquiring rights of programme software including feature films, serials, music and entertainment programmes and for export thereof. i. ATL shall pay to ZTL all costs plus an amount equal to 10% of the total amount of the cost for the 1st five years of the agreement and thereafter 15% of the total amount of the costs. [Costs shall include all amounts expended by ZTL in producing and delivering programming and dubbed programming.] 
 

 j. ZTL shall collect information relating to the advertisers wanting to advertise their products and services on any of the channels and ZTL shall convey such details and information forthwith to ATL to enable them to sell advertisements and sponsorship on the channels and collect advertisements from advertisers in India and dispatch the same to ATL. k. ZTL shall potential advertisers with information regarding advertising on any of the channels. I. In case of the advertisers holding Exchange Earners Foreign Currency Accounts, ZTL will ensure that, all advertisement materials, video tapes, cassette with respect to such advertisements on any channels are directly dispatches by the advertisers to ATL. ZTL will follow up and assist such advertisers in complying with any formalities required under the India Laws, and obtaining any applicable consents necessary to enable the advertisers to dispatch the advertisement material directly to ATL and to directly remit the due advertising revenue to ATL. m. In case of advertisers other than those opting to pay from EEFC Account, ZTL shall collect the advertisement materials, video tapes, cassettes, etc and dispatch the same to ATL. In case of such advertisers ZTL shall collect and hold advertisement revenue in trust and remit the due amount after obtaining RPI permission. II. By M/s. Zee Telefilms Ltd. as per the agreement entered into between M/s. Expand Fast Holdings Ltd and M/s. Zee Telefilms Ltd [the Appellant No. 1]. a. ZTL shall collect information relating to advertisers wanting to advertise their products and services on the channels and ZTL shall convey such details and information forthwith to EXPAND. b. ZTL shall provide potential advertisers with information regarding advertising on MUSIC ASIA, ALPHA TV MARATHI, ALPHA TV GUJARAT, ALPHA TV BANGLA 7 & ALPHA TV PUNJABI channels. c. ZTL shall ensure that all advertisement materials, video tapes, cassettes with respect to such advertisements on the channels are directly dispatches by the advertisers to EXPAND in Singapore. d. ZTL shall be paid a fee equal to 8.5% of the sum equivalent to the advertisement tariff otherwise payable by the advertisers calculated by reference to the appropriate rate card. 2.3 Extract of the relevant statutory provision of Chapter V of Finance Act, 1994 relating to advertising agency service, as they exist, at the material time are: 3.1 On considering the matter on record and the submissions, it is found: Therefore, the definition of 'advertising agency' cannot be read literally and out of context, if done so then every person some way connected with an advertisement will be advertising agency. That cannot be and is not the coverage of the Service Tax envisaged. In the present case, one cannot ignore term being defined i.e. 'advertising agency' and proceed to levy service tax on (i) any commercial concern (ii) providing service connected with making, preparation, display or exhibition of advertisements. If the definition is read in isolation and in an all encompassing manner out of context, then any person/company employing cameraman connected with shooting of advertisement film will become an advertising agency. A caterer supplying tea and biscuits during the production of advertising film will also become a person connected with preparation of advertisement and became an advertising agency. Similarly, a lawyer advising whether advertising film will be violating copyright law or other laws relating to obscenity etc would be treated as advertising agent. Similarly a broadcaster (on radio or television) of an advertisement will become an advertising agency, or a cinema hall flashing an advertisement or newspaper/magazine publishing an advertisement will become an advertising agency. Such absurdities, from an interpretation have to be avoided, the term 'service connected with' used in the definition of "Advertising Agency" is to be understood in context of and in a restrictive manner. (b) Circular No. F.No. 341/43/96-TRU dated 31.10.1996 by Board, issued simultaneously with the introduction of Service Tax on 'advertising agency' by Finance Act, 1996 explains the scope of advertising agency services as under: Therefore, advertiser being a person who wants to advertise his goods or service alone can be treated as client. In the present case, the appellants have no contract or agreement with an advertiser. The appellants agreement is with foreign broadcasters/agencies. The appellants render service to such foreigners and get paid by them. They can never be said to be rendering a service to producer of goods or services. (c) Such "Broadcasting service" became a Taxable Service, when specifically levied, by Finance Act, 2001 , with effect from 16.7.2001. Boards Circular dated 9.7.2001, issued clarified this position as under: Finance Act,2002 carried out a retrospective amendment effective from 16.07.2001 by amending the definition of broadcasting agency or organisation as under: That the appellants have been registered as 'Broadcasting Agency' and are paying service tax on the amount received net of commission paid to advertising agency such as Lintas, Ulka, Hindustan Thompson etc. Therefore in the facts herein, & relying upon in Glaxo Smithkline Pharmaceuticals Ltd. reported at 2005 (188) ELT 171 (Tri-Mum) when it was held as under: 4.... However, the amount paid excluding their commission, by the advertising agency for space and time in getting the advertisement published in the print media (i.e. newspapers, periodicals etc.) or the electronic media ) Doordarshan, Private TV channels, AIR etc.) will not be includible in the value of taxable service for the purpose of levy or service tax. Relevant extract from the Circular F.No.345/4/97-TRU dated 16.8.1999 is reproduced below: As also the CESTAT in the following decisions has repeatedly held that the display of advertisement as such is not liable to service tax under the heading of "taxable service"; ( i) CCE v. Azad Publications ( ii) CCE v. The Incoda ( iii) CCE v. Team UPD 2005 (179) ELT 469 (iv) CCE v. Team UPD (v) The Madras High Court in Advertising Club V. CBEC reported at , noted as under: (iii) If it is viewed that the Google's decision lays down that display of advertisement itself is service as an advertisement agency, then that view is not correct & consistent with circulars of CBEC referred to in the earlier; in the conclusion or decision in Google's case, the above circulars of CBEC as relied by us, do not appear to be considered. Also the legal position that circulars are binding on the department was not argued or considered in Google's case. (iv) The decision in the case of Google does not deal with the crucial aspect of who would be a client for an advertising agency. (v) Advance Ruling Authorities ruling in Google's case is binding only on the parties to the said ruling. Therefore, by virtue of such a stipulation of law it cannot be or act as a binding precedent, in deciding the present case of the appellants who were not parties in that case. Rather, the decision of Madras High Court in Advertising Club v. UOI and the decision of CESTAT referred to in para 2 of circular dated 28.10.2003 would be binding precedents on this Bench. In the above view, we are not able to follow the Google's decision arrived at by the Advance Ruling Authority. (I) (i) Circular dated 28.10.2003 issued by Central Board for Excise and Customs clarifies as under: (Emphasis supplied)
 

 Para 2, of this circular, is relevant to the facts of the present case. It recognizes an agent merely procuring an order for advertisement for a principal namely print media is not an advertising agency. The appellants' activity being only this and nothing more, therefore, cannot bring them & classify them to be an Advertising Agency. (ii) This circular dated 28.10.2003 only clarifies that if the canvassing agency also draft the text of the advertisement or prepares the layout for the advertisement etc. he would be liable to service tax, and may be applicable to bring in actors like Google under the levy on an 'Advertising Agency' but not the appellants herein who do not draft/design the texts or proved to have indulged in such activity. Preparation of an advertisement for television broadcast is a very sophisticated and specialized job, involving huge cost as also lots of efforts as compared to making of classified advertisements for newspapers and as a practice the advertisers appoint the export advertising agency to make advertisement films. (j) (i) Vide para 13 of the impugned order of the Commissioner (Appeals) has summarized the activities of Zee Telefilms. Clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (h), (i) relied upon by the department, to prove that the appellants carried on the activities over and above selling of time slots are considered. These clauses relate to the procurement/production of television programmes such as serials, daily soaps, films etc. for broadcasting on television channels owned by the foreign broadcasting agencies. Zee Telefilms also thus act as an agency/representative for procurement/production of television programme for foreign broadcasting agencies as procurer is another side of a canvasser. The activity referred to in Clause (j) of the said agreement only talks about the activity of gathering the information of the potential advertisers so that the time slots can be sold to then. Such activities could be data/or Management Information Systems & could be business Auxiliary Service or Marketing Service or other relevant Commercial Services, it can not be an Advertising Agency Service which is the subject of levy herein. An information provided to principal broadcaster about its potential market has nothing to do with advertising. Activity referred to in Clause (k) of the said agreement is making the sales pitch to the potential customer and providing the potential advertisers about the type of programmes shown on the channels, their TRPs etc. This only informs prospective advertisers/ad agency's about the programme and thus explains the Broadcast programme of the principal to the customer. Activities referred to in Clause (I)&(m) of the agreement relate only to physical activity of transportation/dispatch of media containing "ready advertisements". It only provides, that, if the advertiser chooses to pay out of EEFC account, the advertiser should directly dispatch the media containing advertisement, as also amount directly to the foreign broadcasting agency and Zee Telefilms would guide them for such dispatch. Such activity surely has nothing to do with making, preparation or display of the advertisements at best it is providing Transport Assistance'. Thus, we do not find any reason to arrive at, that any clause of the agreement enjoins preparation of Advertisements or Advertising Material in any manner to being in the levy of Service Tax in this case. (k) It has been contended, by the department, that Star had authority to reject the advertising material if it does not meet with the technical specifications, stipulated by the foreign broadcasting agency. The Broadcaster to ensure that the advertisement does not contain any objectionable/obscene material etc. has to ensure that it should also be technically not deficient i.e. having defective picture and sound quality etc. Star India would refuse to send such Advertisement film to the principal. Evidently, in ensuring such quality, Star India is not rendering any extraordinary service, which an Broadcasters Agent would not be normally performing for these very services, These services are connected with Broad Casting Service which were not subject to levy of Service Tax during the period under dispute. Revenue has accepted the appellant to be Broad Casting Service provider. Revenue cannot now be permitted to call such activity by another name for an earlier period to 16.7.2001. The appellants receive from advertising agencies or advertiser the advertisement duly recorded on the media. The appellants do not make or prepare the advertisement. In fact, they neither have expertise nor skill required in this regard. This is done by the advertising agency appointed by the advertiser. The advertising agency already pays service tax under the heading 'advertising agency' in connection with concerned flashing advertisement by broadcaster. Provisions of law that there can be a second levy or double levy for the same service again as an advertising agency has not been shown to us. (l) (i) The Commissioner (Appeals) upheld the order of the adjudicating authority demanding Service Tax for extended period of limitation on the ground that the appellants failed to take registration despite repeated reminders. In view of the circulars issued by Central Board for Excise and Customs from time to time, the appellants could entertain legitimately a bona fide belief that the activities of selling time slots, obtaining sponsorship etc. was & is not liable to Service Tax under the category of 'advertising agency' therefore, they were not required to take Service Tax registration and to pay service tax. Hence, the demand of Service Tax beyond the period of six months to be held to be barred by limitations. In particular, the very first circular dated 31 10.1996, issued along with the levy of service tax on advertising agency, in para 8, clarified that the client is the advertiser. The appellants could therefore never imagine that service to their principal who is not an advertiser, would or could be taxed as 'advertising agency'. Also as per para 4 of circular dated 31.10.1996, flashing in electronic media is not to be considered service in connection with display of advertisement. The reason arrived by Commissioner (Appeals), that the appellants have not registered themselves, was indeed the decision of CESTAT in Padmini Products v. CCE to uphold extended period. The relevant extract of the same is reproduced below: The Supreme Courts decision in the case of Padmini Products would squarely cover this case & the conclusion that the demands beyond the normal period of limitation are not sustainable. (ii) Supreme Court in Baidyanath Ayurved Bhavan Ltd. v. CCE reported at , held as under: 3.2 In view of the findings arrived, we would set aside the duty demands as arrived, along with interest liability as also the penalties imposed. The appeals are to be allowed after setting aside the orders. 3.3 Ordered accordingly. (Pronounced in court. 21/07/2006)