This Criminal Petition is filed aggrieved by the order dated

16.09.2023 in Crl.M.P.No.4009 of 2023 in Cr.No.181 of 2023 of

P.S.CCS, DD, Hyderabad. 2. The petitioners herein are accused Nos.1, 2 and 6 (A.1, 2

and 6). The 1st petitioner is a registered company, 2nd petitioner

is the Managing Director of A.1-company at the relevant time

and 3rd petitioner is the wife of 2nd petitioner. For the sake of

convenience the petitioners hereinafter referred to as A.1, A.2

and A.6. 3. A.1 is a Pharmaceutical Drug Design and Development

company. A complaint was filed by the 3rd respondent/defacto

complainant with the Station House Officer, Central Crime

Station, Basheerbagh, Hyderabad against six accused including

the petitioners, which was registered as Cr.No.181 of 2022

under Sections 406 and 420 r/w. Section 34 of Indian Penal

Code (for short ' I.P.C '). 4. The brief facts of the case are that the 3rd respondent is

the founder of U.S. based company and in the year 2018, A.2

approached him seeking investment in A.1-Company at

Hyderabad for developing various medical solutions for various

diseases. Accordingly, the 3rd respondent invested

Rs.45,01,60,000/- in A.1-company. In the said process, A.2

introduced A.3, A.4 and A.5 as partners to the 3rd respondent.

The 3rd respondent felt that the petitioners and other accused

were not being honest as they did not allow him to inspect the

financials and on suspicion A.2 issued two cheques for an

amount of Rs.2,50,00,000/- to the 3rd respondent and when the

said cheques were presented, they were bounced. Later A.2

paid the cheque amount. Basing on the above facts, complaint

was lodged and after thorough investigation, police filed final

report closing the case as civil in nature. It is also stated that

no documentary evidence was furnished by the complainant to

the police. 5. Aggrieved by filing the final report, the 3rd respondent filed

a protest petition before the XII-Additional Chief Metropolitan

Magistrate, Hyderabad, which was taken on file as Protest

Petition No.4009 of 2023. The 3rd respondent requested the 3 Court to direct further investigation in Cr.No.181 of 2022. By

order 16.09.2023, the trial Court allowed the petition and

ordered for further investigation observing that the material on

record was insufficient to take cognizance, and directed the

same police who filed final report to investigate and to file

report. 6. Heard Sri V.Pattabhi, learned Senior Counsel appearing

for Sri Ch.Jagannatha Chary, learned counsel for the

petitioners, Sri S.Ganesh, learned Assistant Public Prosecutor

appearing for respondents 1 and 2 and Sri K.Satish Srinivas,

learned counsel appearing for respondent No.3. 7. The contention of learned counsel for the petitioners is

that a Magistrate acting under Section 190 Cr.P.C, having taken

cognizance on a complaint of an offence, then proceeds to have

power under XV of the Code dealing with complaints to

Magistrate, which is having under Sections 200 to 203 . Section

200 Cr.P.C, deals with examination of the complainant and

under this section, the Magistrate shall examine both the

complainant and the witnesses present which is compulsory

and after acting under Section 200 Cr.P.C, if in his opinion

there is sufficient ground for proceeding, by virtue of the 4 provisions of Section 204 Cr.P.C, he will issue process summons

or warrants as the case may be. But in cases where the

accused stays beyond the area which he exercises his

jurisdiction, Section 202 Cr.P.C, comes into picture. Section

202 of Cr.P.C, is a post-cognizance provision and only

examination of complainant and witnesses on oath under Section 200 Cr.P.C, then the question of Section 202 arises. 8. The scope or power of a Magistrate to give a direction to

the police under Section 202 of Cr.P.C, to investigate is only for

limited purpose of deciding whether or not there is sufficient

ground for proceeding, but the trial Court totally misunderstood

the scope and reach of Section 202 of Cr.P.C. On one hand,

having stated that the trial Judge has not taken cognizance,

grossly erred in using his powers and directed the police to

investigate the case under Section 202 of Cr.P.C. There is no

discussion about final report filed by the police and no

discussion about any material on record for him to come to

conclusion that the final report is not proper for him to take

cognizance of the case. 9. The further contention of learned counsel for the

petitioners is that based on the order of Magistrate, A.2 was

summoned by ACP, CCS, Hyderabad and he was confronted

with the complainant for hours together and inspite of A.2

explaining and demonstrating by material and facts as to how

there is no justification for the allegations of the 3rd respondent,

the 2nd respondent failed to listen what A.2 was pleading and

took action. It is further contended that on 22.12.2023 when

A.1-Company organized its Annual General Meeting, the

constables of CCS picked up A.2 to the police station where, the

concerned ACP by name Uma Maheshwar Rao (2nd respondent)

started abusing him in filthy language, ill-treated him and

humiliated A.2 and he was thrown into a cell in CCS and he was

put in lock up, where he was made to stay overnight. On the

next day morning A.2 was rudely pulled out of the cell and he

was taken to the office of 2nd respondent where again he was

abused in filthy language. When a Habeas Corpus petition was

about to file, A.2 was released and after his release A.2 was

served with Section 41-A Cr.P.C., notice. It is further contended

that the Court acting under Section 202 Cr.P.C, can direct the

police to investigate only for the limited purpose of deciding

whether or not there is sufficient ground for proceeding and 6 police cannot take the role of investigating officer under Section

156 and 157 of Cr.P.C. 10. The further contention of learned counsel for the

petitioners is that initially case is registered before the police

and police filed final report stating that it is civil in nature, on

filing of protest petition, instead of taking cognizance by the

Magistrate, he directed the police to conduct further

investigation which is not in accordance with law and without

discussing anything about the final report filed by the police and

without any material on record, the Magistrate cannot order for

further investigation in a complaint filed under Section 200 of

Cr.P.C. In usual course the Magistrate has to record the

statement of complainant and any other witnesses, and if he is

satisfied, he will take cognizance and directs for investigation

under Section 156 (3) of Cr.P.C. In the present case, without

examining any witnesses or complainant, the Magistrate

straight away directed police for further investigation which is

not in accordance with law. It is further contended that for no

fault of A.2, he was abused by the police from the top to ACP

levels at CCS, Hyderabad, as if he was a hard core criminal and

as the Magistrate is not having any power to direct further 7 investigation under Section 204 of Cr.P.C, the order of the trial

Court is liable to be set aside. 11. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the 3rd

respondent would submit that there is no illegality in the order

of trial Court. The trial Court thoroughly discussed about the

report filed by the police and relied on the judgment of Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Sakiri Vasu Vs State of U.P and others 1

wherein it was held that the Magistrate can direct the Police for

further investigation. As such, there is no illegality in the order

and there are no merits in the petition and requested this Court

to dismiss this petition. 12. Having regard to the rival submissions made by both the

counsel and the material on record, the first contention of

learned counsel for the petitioners is that the trial Court without

discussing about final report filed by the police ordered for

investigation. As seen from the record, the order of trial Court

does not show any discussion about the final report filed by the

police. The trial Court relied on the judgment in Sakiri Vasu's

case (supra) wherein it is observed that the power of the 1 (2008) 2 SCC 409 8 Magistrate to order further investigation under Section 156 (3) of Cr.P.C, is an independent power and does not affect the

power of the investigating officer to further investigate the case

even after submission of his report vide Section 173 (8) of Cr.P.C

and the Magistrate can order re-opening of investigation, even

after the police submits the final report. 13. The trial Court also relied on the judgment of Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Abhinandan Jha and others Vs Dinesh

Mishra 2 held that the Magistrate will have ample jurisdiction to

give directions to the police under Section 156 (3) of Cr.P.C, to

make a further investigation. That is, if the Magistrate feels,

after considering the final report, that the investigation is

unsatisfactory, or incomplete, or that there is scope for further

investigation, it will be open to the Magistrate to decline to

accept the final report and direct the police to make further

investigation, under Section 156(3) of Cr.P.C. 14. The trial Court after going through the contents of

complaint, found prima-facie case in respect of inducement and

committed cheated by causing wrongful loss to the complainant 2 1967 SCC online SC 107 9 in Crores of rupees. The trial Court also observed that the final

report does not disclose any reason for coming to the conclusion

as civil in nature, as such directed for further investigation.

Except stating that the final report does not disclose the reasons

for closing the case, there are no observations in the order on

which aspect further investigation was necessary. As seen from

the final report, the police collected some documentary evidence,

and it is also mentioned that no documentary evidence is

produced regarding allegation No.1 leveled against Kandula

Sridevi. Further, neither she is a Director nor share holder of

the company nor involved in financial transactions with

M/s.Cellix Bio Private Limited Company; with regard to

allegation No.2, as per the Board resolution shares were allotted

to the complainant @ Rs.610/- per share and further with

regard to allegation Nos.3 and 4 it is observed that there is an

arbitration clause for settlement which was not resorted for

non-realization of cheques for Rs.2.50 Crores, and the

complaint itself shows that the accused already paid the

amounts and for allegation No.5, no documentary evidence was

submitted. The closure report shows the reasons for filing

report. But the trial Court without going through the final

report, directed the police for further investigation under Section 10 202 of Cr.P.C, whereas, Section 202 of Cr.P.C, is a post

cognizance provision. Proviso in Section 202 of Cr.P.C, says

that complainant and the witnesses have to be examined on

oath under Section 200 of Cr.P.C. There is no such

examination on record. The trial Court ordered for further

investigation without following the procedure. Hence, the order

of the trial Court is liable to be set aside and the matter has to

be remanded to the trial Court to decide afresh. 15. Accordingly, the Criminal Petition is allowed and the

matter is remanded back to the trial Court to decide the matter

afresh by following the procedure. Miscellaneous petitions, pending, if any, shall stand

closed. _______________
 K. SUJANA, J
Date :11.09.2024
Rds