% 05.02.2024
 I.A. 2542/2024(seeking exemption from advance service to Defendant No. 1) 1. For the grounds and reasons stated therein, the application is allowed
 and disposed of. The Plaintiffs allege that Defendant No. 1 is perpetrating
 fraud on the general public by creating a false association with the Plaintiff,
 resulting in grave financial losses to the public. Considering the nature of
 controversy involved in the present suit as well as the peculiar facts and
 circumstances of the case, exemption from effecting advance service on CS(COMM) 103/2024 Page 1 of 16 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:00
 Defendant No. 1 is allowed. 2. Disposed of. I.A. 2539/2024(seeking exemption from pre-institution mediation) 3. As the present suit contemplates urgent interim relief, in light of the
 judgment of Supreme Court in Yamini Manohar v. T.K.D. Krithi,1 exemption from attempting pre-institution mediation is granted. 4. Disposed of. I.A. 2540/2024(seeking to file additional documents) 5. This is an application seeking leave to file additional documents under
 the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 . 6. If Plaintiffs wish to file additional documents at a later stage, they
 shall do so strictly as per the provisions of the said Act. 7. Disposed of. I.A. 2541/2024(seeking exemption) 8. Exemption is granted, subject to all just exceptions. 9. Plaintiffs shall file legible and clearer copies of exempted documents,
 compliant with practice rules, before the next date of hearing. 10. Disposed of. CS(COMM) 103/2024 11. Let the plaint be registered as a suit. 12. Issue summons. Counsel mentioned in appearance above accept
 summons on behalf of Defendants No. 4, 6 and 7. They confirm receipt of CS(COMM) 103/2024 Page 2 of 16 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:00
 the suit paper-book, and waive the requirement for Registry to issue formal
 summons. Written statement(s) shall be filed within thirty days from today.
 Issue summons to remaining Defendants, upon payment of process fee, by
 all permissible modes. Summons shall state that the written statement(s)
 shall be filed by the Defendants within thirty days from the date of receipt of
 summons. Along with the written statement(s), the Defendants shall also file
 affidavit(s) of admission/denial of the documents of the Plaintiff, without
 which the written statement(s) shall not be taken on record. 13. Liberty is given to the Plaintiffs to file replication(s) within 15 days of
 the receipt of the written statement(s). Along with the replication(s), if any,
 filed by the Plaintiffs, affidavit(s) of admission/denial of documents of the
 Defendants be filed by the Plaintiffs, without which the replication(s) shall
 not be taken on record. If any of the parties wish to seek inspection of any
 documents, the same shall be sought and given within the timelines. 14. List before the Joint Registrar for marking of exhibits on 05th April,
 2024. It is made clear that any party unjustifiably denying documents would
 be liable to be burdened with costs. 15. List before Court for framing of issues thereafter. I.A. 2538/2024(under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of CPC ) 16. Ms. Shwetasree Majumder, counsel for Plaintiff No. 1, and Mr.
 Saikrishna Rajagopal, counsel for Plaintiffs No. 2 and 3, have presented the
 following facts and contentions: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:01
 CAPITAL", " ", " " etc. and passing off of
 Plaintiff No. 2 and 3s' trademarks "PEAK XV", "PEAK XV PARTNERS",

 " "," " and " " by Defendant No.1, who
 is operating a fraudulent trading and investment business through the
 websites www.sequoiacapital.club, www.sequoiacapital.top and
 www.sequoiainvestment.in, also the mobile application named 'SEQUOIA'.
 16.2 Additionally, Imposters are impersonating themselves as Mr.
 Chinmaya Golecha, who in fact is an Investment Professional at Plaintiff
 No. 3 and claiming to be a part of SEQUOIA CAPITAL. They are allegedly
 operating a stock market investment learning platform 'SEQUOIA
 CAPITAL BUSINESS SCHOOL' through webinars, wherein they share
 apparently fake and fraudulent stock trading and investment information,
 using the SEQUOIA trademarks. Plaintiff No. 1/ Sequoia Capital Operations, LLC
 16.3 Plaintiff No. 1 is a venture capital firm, having its headquarters
 at California, United States of America, who offers a range of investment
 services in various sectors, such as artificial intelligence, machine learning,
 cryptocurrency, healthcare, fintech, e-commerce, edtech, telecom etc., under
 the brand name "SEQUOIA". Plaintiff No. 1 aims to aid founders in
 building their companies, and has successfully assisted several renowned
 entities in expanding their businesses. 16.4 The mark "SEQUOIA" was first adopted in 1972 by Plaintiff
 No. 1's founder, Mr. Donald T. Valentine, being inspired from the CS(COMM) 103/2024 Page 4 of 16 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:01
 "SEQUOIA" tree that lives for thousands of years. The trademarks

 "SEQUOIA", " " and their formative variants have been registered in
 Plaintiff No. 1's favour in various countries and have now become an
 essential aspect of Plaintiff No. 1's trading activities.
 16.5 In India, the Plaintiff No. 1 has various trademark registrations
 in different classes, with the first registration dating back to 29th July, 2005.2
 Their commercial activities in India commenced in 2006 when Plaintiff
 authorized an Indian venture capital firm by the name of Westbridge Capital
 Partners to use the mark "SEQUOIA CAPITAL". Pursuant to this
 authorization, 'Westbridge Capital Partners' was later rebranded as 'Sequoia
 Capital India'. In 2006 itself, Sequoia Capital India (now known as PEAK
 XV PARTNERS) raised $400 million, followed by another $300 million in
 2007, becoming the first Silicon Valley venture capital firm to have an
 exposure of more than $1 billion in India. 16.6 Plaintiff No. 1 has been regularly featured in Indian print and
 digital media and also has a significant online presence on social media
 platforms, which are indicative of Plaintiff's goodwill and reputation in the
 Indian market. The "SEQUOIA" trademarks are exclusively associated with
 the Plaintiff and any unwarranted use thereof in relation to capital market
 would cause customer confusion and result in loss of business and goodwill
 to the Plaintiff. Plaintiff No. 2/ Peak XV Partners Operations LLC and Plaintiff No. 3/
 Peak XV Partners Advisors India LLP 2 Particulars of registration are mentioned at Paragraph No. 23 of the plaint. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:01
 16.7 The brand 'PEAK XV' of Plaintiff Nos. 2 and 3 is inspired
 from the moniker given to Mount Everest back in the 1850s by the British
 Survey before it came to be officially known as Mount Everest.
 16.8 Plaintiff No. 3 has been operating a website www.peakxv.com
 on the internet, which prominently displays its trademarks 'PEAK XV',

 , and the device as its website icon. The website prominently calls out that PEAK XV PARTNERS was
 formerly known as Sequoia India and SEA and inter-alia provides
 information of PEAK XV PARTNERS' team, programmes (like Surge,
 Spark, PitStop, etc.), the companies that it has invested in, etc. Blog posts
 featuring details of Plaintiff No. 3's services under the PEAK XV
 PARTNERS trademark are also published regularly on the said website.
 16.9 Plaintiff No. 2 has filed trademark applications for the word

 and device marks, i.e. ' ' which are also used by the Plaintiff
 No. 3 as an authorized user of Plaintiff No. 2. These applications are
 currently pending before the Trade Marks Registry3. Details of the Dispute
 16.10 Due to the long-standing and extensive use and registrations,
 the SEQUOIA and PEAK XV PARTNERS trademarks are associated with
 Plaintiffs so much so that any reference to the names SEQUOIA/SEQUOIA
 CAPITAL/ SEQUOIA GROUP, PEAX XV, PEAK XV PARTNERS draws
 an immediate connection with Plaintiffs. Any unwarranted and unjustified 3 Particulars of applications are mentioned at Paragraph No. 24 of the plaint. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:01
 reference to the SEQUOIA and PEAK XV PARTNERS brand in the context
 of the capital market may cause customer confusion and deception and
 would be detrimental to Plaintiffs brand business, entrenched goodwill and
 brand reputation. 16.11 On 30th November, 2023, some officials of Plaintiff No. 3
 received an email from a potential investor/informant, seeking a clarification
 if 'Sequoia Capital Business School' is a part of the Plaintiff No. 1's
 company or associated with it in any other way. The said informant
 communicated that the aforementioned business school is providing
 investment tips for trading on a specific trading platform and a mobile
 application, which claim to be approved by SEBI and which enable users to
 make 500% profit based on their learning and recommendation.
 16.12 Since the afore-mentioned business school was not connected
 with the Plaintiffs, Plaintiff No. 1 hired an investigator to look into the
 matter, which revealed extensive misuse of SEQUOIA and PEAK XV
 PARTNERS trademarks and the fraud being perpetuated by the said
 Imposters in the course of its highly dubious investment and trading
 business, which is detailed below: Screenshot of the infringing Mobile application is as under: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:01
 several lakhs of India Rupees, from the innocent investors under the guise of
 investment and trading with the Plaintiffs, in the bank account maintained
 with Defendant Nos. 8, 9 and 10, details of which are mentioned in
 DOCUMENT-C annexed to the plaint. (viii) The money is collected from the victims in an illusionary wallet, and
 once the money is transferred, it cannot be withdrawn, and as per the
 information received from the investors/victims, their wallets are blocked,
 and they are removed from the WhatsApp and Telegram groups by the
 Imposters. (ix) The Plaintiffs state that most of the participants/members of these
 WhatsApp groups are also Imposters who are using the name of Mr.
 Chinmaya Golecha, as well as other recurring names including, inter alia,
 Ms. Lucia Chatterjee, Ms. Ananya Patel, Ms. Mamta. (x) Further, emphasis is placed on several WhatsApp Chats, wherein one
 of the victims of this investment scam sent individual messages to all the
 participants of one of those groups, trying to make them aware of the
 fraudulent activity. However, in response, all the participants replied to him
 on individual chat stating that they all are Imposters "Lucia", who is one of
 the admins in the impugned WhatsApp group. Screenshot of two such
 conversations are copied below: 16.13 The modus operandi of these Imposters is ex facie to dupe the
 potential investors by misusing the Plaintiffs' SEQUOIA and PEAK XV CS(COMM) 103/2024 Page 11 of 16 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:01
 PARTNERS trademarks, and to use the WhatsApp accounts solely and
 primarily for the purpose of fraudulent activities.
 16.14 One of the victims of the Defendant No. 1's illegal activities,
 who has been cheated to the tune of INR 2,50,00,000/- has filed a complaint
 against Plaintiff No. 3's senior official Mr. Chinmaya Golecha, whom the
 Imposters have impersonated on their respective WhatsApp groups, pursuant
 to which an FIR has also been registered against Mr. Golecha in the Wakad
 Police Station, Pune. The said news has been reported by the media and is
 affecting the Plaintiff No. 3's goodwill and reputation, as it has been
 recently rebranded to PEAK XV Partners. 16.15 In view of the aforenoted controversy, given the erosion of the
 goodwill and reputation of the Plaintiffs and the grievous financial harm
 being caused to the public, the instant application is filed seeking urgent
 interim reliefs. 17. The Court has considered the aforenoted submisisons. The afore-
 noted screenshots and other material placed on record clearly depict that
 Defendant No. 1 is attracting unsuspecting consumers using the Plaintiff No.
 1's reputation connected with their registered "SEQUOIA" trademarks. The
 operators/ group admins of various WhatsApp and Telegram
 groups/Communities/ Channels have not been authorized by the Plaintiffs to
 offer any financial trading and investment advice and platform for entering
 into monetary transactions and are misrepresenting themselves to the public
 to that effect. It is ex-facie apparent that the activities of Defendant No. 1 are
 illegitimate and fraudulent, intended to be used as a ploy to induce the
 unwary users to "invest" substantial sums of money, which is detrimental to
 public interest. This also affects the Plaintiffs' standing in the market, as the CS(COMM) 103/2024 Page 12 of 16 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:01
 consumers are initially drawn by the use of the "SEQUOIA" and 'PEAK
 XV PARTNERS" trademarks. 18. In view of the foregoing and considering the public interest involved
 in the matter, the Court is of the opinion that Plaintiffs have demonstrated a
 strong prima facie case in their favour and in case an ex-parte ad-interim
 injunction is not granted, Plaintiffs will suffer an irreparable loss. Balance of
 convenience also lies in the favour of Plaintiffs, and against Defendant No.1.
 Accordingly, the following directions are issued: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:01
 maintain status quo regarding the ownership of the said domain names.
 They shall further file in a sealed cover the necessary information pertaining
 to the identity of the registrants of the aforesaid domain names, as is
 available with them, within a period of four weeks from today.
 18.4 Defendant No. 3, Meta Platforms Inc., is directed to
 block/remove access to the said profiles/accounts as mentioned in
 DOCUMENT-A annexed to the plaint. Further, they shall disclose, by filing
 in a sealed cover, the mobile nos., email ids and IP addresses used to open
 the fake Facebook profiles/accounts, before this Court within four weeks
 from today. 18.5 Defendant No. 3 is also directed to remove/block the WhatsApp
 groups/communities as well as WhatsApp accounts of the mobile numbers
 as mentioned in DOCUMENT-B annexed to the plaint, and/or any other
 groups/ community groups created/administered by the phone numbers of
 the group admins of the aforesaid group that are misusing the Plaintiff's
 trademarks in their communications. 18.6 Defendant No. 4, Telegram FZ-LLC, is directed to remove/
 block Telegram channel https://t.me/+OQF6yvz0C445M2E1 as also the
 accounts with the usernames '@alonzo0708033162' and
 '@SarahPrice3481'. 18.7 Defendant No. 4 is also directed to file an affidavit on the steps
 it can take, within its capacity as an intermediary platform, to ensure that no
 new groups are formed in the name of "Senee Trader" by the same/ new
 administrators. The said affidavit should specifically outline whether it is
 technologically possible for Defendant No. 3 to ascertain the existence of
 any other groups utilising "SENEE TRADER", "SEQUOIA" or "PEAK CS(COMM) 103/2024 Page 14 of 16 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:01
 XV" in their group names or group descriptions. Let the same be filed
 within four weeks from today. 18.8 Defendant No. 5, X Corp. (formerly Twitter), is directed to
 delete the 'X' Account of Juhi Nisha, i.e. @MaXiao35474.
 18.9 Defendant No. 6, Ministry of Electronics and Information
 Technology, Union of India and Defendant No. 7, Department of
 Telecommunications, Ministry of Communications, Union of India, shall
 issue necessary notifications/ directions to all telecom and internet service
 providers, Domain Name Registrars, social media platforms and messaging
 apps in India, to permanently block/ delete/ remove access to all the
 telephone numbers, websites, domain names, accounts on social media and
 messaging platforms etc., which are subject matter of the present suit, and
 specifically mentioned in DOCUMENTS A, B and C.
 18.10 Defendants No. 8, 9 and 10 are directed to immediately freeze
 all the bank accounts of the Defendant No. 1 as mentioned in DOCUMENT-
 C annexed with the plaint. 18.11 Defendants No. 8, 9 and 10 are also directed to file in a sealed
 cover the complete KYC documents of the owners/beneficiaries of the
 impugned bank accounts as mentioned in DOCUMENT-C annexed to the
 plaint, along with their account opening/nomination forms and bank
 statements from the date of opening of bank accounts till the date of their
 compliance of the instant order. Let the same be filed one week prior to the
 next date of hearing. 19. Compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure , 1908 shall be done within fifteen days from today. 20. Issue notice. Reply, if any, be filed within four weeks from CS(COMM) 103/2024 Page 15 of 16 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:02
 today. Rejoinder thereto, if any, be filed within two weeks thereafter. 21. Re-notify on 10th July, 2024. SANJEEV NARULA, J
 FEBRUARY 5, 2024
 d.negi CS(COMM) 103/2024 Page 16 of 16 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 07/02/2024 at 21:17:02