DATE : 26th AUGUST, 2019
 P.C.: 2. By this Petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the

 Petitioner has assailed the order dated 22nd July, 2019 passed by the

 Scheduled Tribe Caste Certificate Scrutiny Committee, Aurangabad

 (Respondent No.2) in short "the Committee" whereby the Petitioner's

 claim for Tribe validation as belonging to 'Naikda', Scheduled Tribe, has

 been rejected. 3. The grievance of the Petitioner is, though Caste Validity

 Certificates granted on 11th January 2011 and 13 th April 2011 by the

 Committee in favour of her father Vijaysing Bhimrao Rabde and uncle ::: Uploaded on - 26/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2019 02:57:50 ::: 2 8-wp 9363-19

Vinod Bhimrao Rabde respectively were relied upon, the Committee has

discarded the same on the ground that the same would not be

conclusive proof and would not absolve the Petitioner from discharging

the burden of the production of the relevant evidence. The Committee

also took a view that the validity certificates have been granted to

Vijaysing Bhimrao Rabde and Vinod Bhimrao Rabde without taking

into account the interpolations/adverse entries in the documents, on

which reliance was placed at the time of issuance of the validity

certificates by its holders. It is stated by the Respondents-State that

appropriate show cause notices have already been issued to the caste

validity certificate holders. 4. According to the learned counsel appearing for Petitioner, the

decision of the Committee runs contrary to the Division Bench judgment

of this Court in the case of Apoorva Vinay Nichale v/s Divisional Caste

Certificate Scrutiny Committee No.1 and others 1, which was based

upon the Supreme Court judgment passed in the case of Raju Ramsing

Vasave v/s Mahesh Deorao Bhivapurkar and others 2. So also the in

the case of Anand vs. Committee for Scrutiny and Verification of

Tribe Claims and Others3. 5. The Division Bench in the case of Apoorva Vinay Nichale (supra)
1 2010(6) Mh. L.J. 401
2 (2008) 9 SCC 54
3 (2012) 1 SCC 113 ::: Uploaded on - 26/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2019 02:57:50 ::: 3 8-wp 9363-19

in Paragraph Nos.7 and 9 observed thus : 4 8-wp 9363-19

 that the earlier certificate is obtained by fraud it would not be
 bound to follow the earlier caste validity certificate
 and is entitled to refuse the caste claim and also in addition
 initiate proceedings for cancellation of the earlier order.
 In this view of the matter, we are of the view that the
 petition must succeed. Rule is made absolute in
 above terms. The Caste Scrutiny Committee is
 directed to furnish the caste validity certificate to the
 Petitioner." 6. The learned Government Pleader submits that since some

interpolation is noticed in the school record of Petitioner's father

Vijaysing Bhimrao Rabde and uncle Vinod Bhimrao Rabde, the

Committee has issued show cause notices to them. We find that the

Committee has not recorded specific findings as regard possibility of

some interpolation. Be that as it may, we have noticed that the

Petitioner's father Vijaysing Bhimrao Rabde and uncle Vinod Bhimrao

Rabde have already been granted caste validity certificates. Thus in our

considered view, the reason assigned by the Committee for rejection of

the Petitioner's claim cannot be sustained as it runs contrary to the view

taken by the Division Bench of this Court in the case of Apoorva Vinay

Nichale (supra). 7. In the circumstances, in the light of the law laid down by the

judgments in Apoorva Nichale, Anand vs. Committee and Raju

Ramsing Vasave (supra), the Petitioner is entitled to be granted caste

validity certificate forthwith. However, the issuance of the certificate

shall be subject to the outcome of the show cause notices which have ::: Uploaded on - 26/08/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2019 02:57:50 ::: 5 8-wp 9363-19

been issued against the father Vijaysing Bhimrao Rabde and uncle Vinod

Bhimrao Rabde by the Committee as the caste validity certificates issued

are found to be based on interpolation/ adverse entries. 8. In view of above, the Committee is directed to issue Tribe validity

certificate to the Petitioner forthwith. As the Committee has already

initiated proceedings for cancellation of validity issued to the blood

relations of the Petitioner, in response to the Courts query, it is assured

by the Committee that the Committee will conclude those proceedings

within a period of six months from the date of receipt of copy of this

order. If the proceedings for cancellation of caste validity are answered

against such certificate holders, it shall be open for the Respondent

Committee to issue show cause notice to the Petitioner as to why the

validity certificate granted to petitioner should not be cancelled and it

will be open for the Committee to take those proceedings to its logical

end. Needless to say that the certificate issued to the Petitioner is

subject to the outcome of the proceedings for cancellation of validity

issued in favour of her blood relations. 9. With the aforesaid observation, the Petition is allowed to the

extent indicated above.