S.J. VAZIFDAR, ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE: 2. There is no doubt that the disputes and differences
 between the parties are arbitrable. The claims arise under and in
 terms of the underlying contract. The only question is whether the
 reference to arbitration ought to be refused in view of the
 allegations of fraud made by the respondent against the petitioner.
 I have come to the conclusion that the authorities essentially hold
 that a reference to arbitration may be resisted by the party
 against whom the allegations of fraud have been made and not PARKASH CHAND 2015.10.21 17:54 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document ARB-224-2014 - 2 - normally at least at the instance of the party making the
 allegations of fraud. I have, therefore, allowed the petition and
 appointed an arbitrator. 3. In the year 2009, the respondent invited tenders for
 collecting bills from its consumers. The respondent accepted the
 petitioner's bid and issued a work order dated 06.08.2009 for
 collection of energy bills through retail outlets set up by the
 petitioner. Clause 2(b) provided that at the start the firm should
 collect payment in Hisar as a pilot project and that, on
 satisfactory performance, the firm would be allowed to roll out its
 operations in other areas. Faridabad was also included
 subsequently. Clauses 3, 4, 5 and 22 read as under:- 4. Obligation of the party:- ii. Facilitate the installation, ownership and
 operation of the Retail outlets at the cost
 of agencies appointed by Suvidhaa; iii) Suitably monitor the maintenance and service
 at the Retail outlet; iv. Maintain and bear the expense of all
 required insurance coverage in relation to
 the CIT service provided, through agencies
 appointed by it; v. Ensure the provision CIT services; vi. Agree to a rollout schedule with DHBVN and
 coordinate rollout; vii. Formulate and execute the publicity plan and
 schedule along with DHBVN on a mutually
 agreeable and case by case basis. viii. Maintain details of transaction volumes
 within its System; ix. Provide electronic transaction services,
 including, without limitation, transaction
 settlement and connectivity to the DHBVN
 payments network; x. Co-ordinate the testing, installation and
 application of Retail outlets which it
 agrees to connect to the DHBVN Network; xi. Provide supervisors where appropriate; xii. Provide daily settlement of cash and cheques
 deposited into the Retail outlets on the
 following working day. Should Suvidhaa fail
 to do so it will pay DHBVN without question
 any interest loss that DHBVN would have
 received; xiii. Provide weekly settlement reports to DHBVN
 in an appropriate format; xiv. Provide additional support services that are
 agreed in writing with DHBVN from time to
 time. These services shall be reflected in
 the Statements of Work which are signed off
 by both DHBVN and Suvidhaa. (b) DHBVN must: As per Annexure-A, the distributors were to provide a variety of
 services including managing collections from retailers and
 depositing the same in designated bank accounts, collecting
 documents, cheques, forms, etc. from retailers on a daily basis and
 processing the same as per business process requirements. Clauses
 11 and 12 of Annexure-A read as under:- 5. The petitioner's case is as follows: 6. Upon the petitioner's work being found to be
 satisfactory, the respondent by a letter dated 09.02.2011 extended
 the period of work order as well as the area of operation to
 include certain divisions of Faridabad. This work order also
 specified that on satisfactory performance, the petitioner would be
 allowed to roll out its operations in other areas. 7. By a letter dated 16.04.2013, the respondent informed
 the petitioner that there were differences in the cash and online
 scrolls. The petitioner claims to have replied to the letter. The
 petitioner also conducted an enquiry and found that some of its
 retailers and distributors were involved in these discrepancies.
 The petitioner accordingly filed a complaint dated 09.07.2014 with
 the Commissioner of Police alleging offence of criminal
 misappropriation of public money and entrusted money, cheating,
 criminal conspiracy, forgery and fraud in collusion with others.
 The subject of the complaint itself alleges that the
 retailers/distributors had committed fraud and that one of the
 allegations in the complaint was that there was a "misappropriation
 of funds, fraud, cheating, etc." The petitioner stated in the
 complaint that the respondent's enquiry up to 27.04.2013 indicated
 an embezzlement of Rs.65.07 lacs which the petitioner had to
 deposit with the respondent; that by the respondent's letter dated
 13.09.2013 misappropriation of funds through cheques was also PARKASH CHAND 2015.10.21 17:54 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document ARB-224-2014 - 8 - revealed; that by 31.08.2013, the amount of misappropriation i.e.
 the amount received but not deposited in the respondent's account
 increased to Rs.3.24 crores and that the petitioner made payment of
 Rs.2.59 crores to the respondent under protest pending a full
 investigation. The complaint further states that thereafter, the
 petitioner conducted detailed enquiry and investigation as to who
 were the real culprits "who had committed this big fraud of
 misappropriation of consumer money" for which the petitioner was
 penalised. In paragraph-7 of the complaint, the petitioner stated
 that the result of the enquiry indicated that there were retailers
 and distributors who were involved in cheating, misappropriation,
 tampering with the online software/application system, inserting
 fake entries in the system, misusing and affixing fake seal and
 stamp of the petitioner on the bills and in playing the whole
 financial fraud. Some of the alleged culprits were named. The tenor
 of the complaint throughout indicates, prima facie at least, that
 the petitioner acknowledged that there was a fraud on various
 accounts including misappropriation of the money and tampering with
 the software system. The petitioner acknowledged that the extent of
 the fraud may increase upon further investigation. The fraud, even
 according to the petitioner, was committed in more ways than one.
 The complaint also alleges criminal misappropriation and criminal
 breach of trust on part of the distributors and their employees. 8. It is also important to note that in paragraph 2N of
 this petition, the petitioner states that it continued with the
 enquiry and found that the distributors and retailers had defrauded
 and cheated the petitioner and the respondent. It is not necessary PARKASH CHAND 2015.10.21 17:54 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document ARB-224-2014 - 9 - to set out the modus operandi stated by the petitioner in this
 regard. 9. The respondent filed an FIR against the petitioner. The
 petitioner states that upon payment of the said sum of Rs.65.13
 lacs to the respondent a cancellation report dated 17.09.2013 was
 filed before the Court. 10. The petitioner then refers to the negotiations and the
 alleged settlements arrived at between the parties. According to
 the petitioner, it had deposited the amount of Rs.65.13 lacs under
 pressure and without prejudice only as an act of goodwill and to
 foster its relationship with the respondent. The respondent
 thereafter alleged that the extent of the fraud had increased and
 demanded a sum of Rs.3.24 crores on account thereof from the
 petitioner. Thereafter, several meetings were held between the
 parties and the accounts maintained by each of them were exchanged. On 31.03.2014, a meeting was held between the parties to
 discuss and settle the outstanding issues relating to the
 collection of bills by the petitioner on behalf the respondent in
 Faridabad and Hisar distribution circles. The minutes of the

 meeting record the agreement arrived at between the parties. The
 Minutes which were signed by both the parties comprise of only the
 following clauses:- The parties have set their hands on the minutes at
 Hisar on this day 31st March, 2014." ARB-224-2014 - 11 - The amount of Rs.1.74 crores was deposited by the petitioner in the
 respondent's bank account. The terms of the settlement were to come
 into force only after the amount was credited. Admittedly, the
 amount was credited. 11. The respondent, however, by a letter dated 31.05.2014
 alleged that certain cases of fraud/embezzlement of public money
 had come to its notice recently and were under investigation by the
 appropriate authorities and that in view thereof it had decided to
 review the entire transactions made by the external collection
 agencies including the petitioner. The respondent, therefore,
 revoked and rescinded the said minutes of the meeting held on
 31.03.2014. The respondent requested the petitioner to associate it
 and its bankers in the investigation process to ascertain the exact
 quantum of loss caused to the public utility on account of
 fraudulent transactions routed through the petitioner in public
 interest. 12. Correspondence thereafter ensued between the parties in
 the course of which the petitioner contended that the revocation of
 the settlement was illegal and improper. The respondent, on the
 other hand, contended that after its letter of revocation dated
 31.05.2014, the petitioner sent a team on 12.06.2014 to the
 respondent who collected the relevant records with an assurance
 that the data matching from the records shared with the respondent
 would be carried out and the outcome would be shared with the
 respondent within 15 days. The respondent stated that the
 petitioner was liable for and was bound to indemnify it against all
 losses/claims due to fraud/embezzlement/misappropriation or any PARKASH CHAND 2015.10.21 17:54 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document ARB-224-2014 - 12 - other unlawful activity by the employees/persons employed by the
 petitioner for the assigned job. The letter concluded as follows:- This indicates not an allegation of fraud against the petitioner
 but against the petitioner's franchisees. If the allegation was
 that the petitioner was guilty of the fraud, the respondent would
 never have called upon the petitioner to investigate/reconcile the
 process. 13. However, by a further letter dated 06.08.2014, the
 respondent alleged that the petitioner and its staff/employees were
 guilty of the fraud and had embezzled the amounts. Further the
 respondent addressed a letter dated 11.09.2014 in reply to the
 petitioner's Advocate's notice dated 27.08.2014 invoking the
 arbitration agreement. In this letter, the respondent expressly
 alleged that the petitioner was involved in the fraud. The
 respondent stated that it was established that the petitioner, in
 collusion with its various dealers, had embezzled the said amounts
 and that the petitioner had paid the amounts as stated by it
 earlier by admitting its guilt. The respondent further stated that
 the extent of the fraud/embezzlement became known to it only in
 stages and that the matter was still being investigated. ARB-224-2014 - 13 - The respondent filed a complaint which was registered as
 FIR No.629 dated 11.09.2014 under Sections 406 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code. The allegations of fraud are repeated in the
 respondent's written statement. 14. The petitioner's application for anticipatory bail in
 CRM-M No.33055 of 2014 was dismissed as withdrawn as recorded in
 the order dated 13.11.2014. By an order dated 21.11.2014, the
 Additional Sessions Judge dismissed the subsequent application for
 bail. A petition under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code
 for quashing the FIR is pending. The petitioner's application
 under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, was
 dismissed by an order and judgment dated 15.09.2014 of the
 Additional District Judge, Hisar. 15. The petitioner had filed the application under Section 9 inter alia for an injunction restraining the respondent from giving
 effect to the letters dated 31.05.2014 revoking the settlement and
 the letters dated 23.07.2014 and 06.08.2014 and from initiating any
 coercive action till the disposal of the arbitration proceedings.
 It is not necessary to make any observation on the tenability of
 such an application for interim relief. The learned Judge noted the
 submissions on behalf of the respondent, inter alia, to the effect
 that the petitioner was guilty of cheating and criminal
 misappropriation of huge amount of public money. The learned Judge
 noted that it was admitted that a huge amount of public money had
 been embezzled but that the petitioner denies any role in the same.
 The petitioner places blame for the same upon its distributors and
 retailers. ARB-224-2014 - 14 - 16. There is no doubt that the disputes raised fall within
 the ambit of the arbitration agreement. The petitioner, on the one
 hand, seeks recovery of the amounts due to it under the agreement.
 The respondent, on the other hand, seeks recovery of the amounts
 that ought to have been paid by the petitioner/petitioner's
 franchisees under and in terms of the agreement. It sought to
 recover earlier and even now seeks to recover the amounts payable
 by the petitioner to it under the agreement. These disputes,
 undoubtedly, are arbitrable. The petitioner claims that a full and
 final settlement was arrived at between the parties in terms of the
 agreement dated 31.03.2014. The respondent, however, admittedly,
 rescinded the same contending that it discovered later that further
 amounts had been embezzled and that it is entitled to the payment
 in respect thereof as well. Such payments are also demanded under
 and in terms of the agreement and fall within the ambit of the
 arbitration agreement. 17. The only question is whether the parties are bound to
 refer such disputes to arbitration. Mr. Bedi, the learned counsel
 appearing on behalf of the respondent, contended that such issues
 of fraud ought to be decided by a public forum in a Civil Court and
 not by a private forum, namely, the arbitral tribunal. 18. In support of this contention, Mr. Bedi relied upon a
 judgment of the Supreme Court in N. Radhakrishnan vs. Maestro
 Engineers and others, (2010) 1 Supreme Court Cases 72. I would
 preface a reference to this judgment by noting that it was the
 party seeking the reference in that case that made the allegations
 of fraud. In that case, the appellant had entered into a
 partnership with the respondents. Differences arose between the PARKASH CHAND 2015.10.21 17:54 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document ARB-224-2014 - 15 - partners. The appellant addressed a notice to the respondents
 alleging malpractices on their part as also collusion among them to
 drive the appellant out of the firm. The appellant also alleged
 that the respondents had forged the accounts. The appellant offered
 to retire from the firm and asked for his share of the profit. The
 appellant also alleged collusion between respondents in order to
 siphon the money from the firm for their personal gain. The
 respondents denied the allegations. The appellant, therefore, by a
 further notice reiterated the allegations and invoked the
 arbitration agreement. The Supreme Court held that the disputes
 fell within the ambit of the arbitration agreement. The Supreme
 Court, however, upheld the respondents contention that the case
 involved substantial questions involving detailed material evidence
 documentary and oral and that allegations such as those made by the
 appellant ought to be tried in Court and not in arbitration. The
 Supreme Court upheld the contention "in view of the facts and
 circumstances of the case". The Supreme Court followed an earlier
 decision in the case of Abdul Kadir Shamsuddin Bubere vs. Madhav
 Prabhakar Oak and another , AIR 1962 Supreme Court 406. The
 Supreme Court also noted the judgment of a learned single Judge
 of the Madras High Court in H.G. Oomor Sait and another vs. O.
 Aslam Sait , (2001) 3 CTC 269. It is important to note that in N. Radhakrishnan's case
 (supra) and in Abdul Kadir 's case (supra) the allegations of fraud
 were made by the party who had sought the reference to arbitration.
 In the case before me it is not so - it is the party opposing the
 reference to arbitration i.e. the respondent who has made the
 allegations of fraud. ARB-224-2014 - 16 - 19. In Abdul Kadir 's case (supra), eventually, on 27.2.1953,
 an agreement was entered into between the appellant and the two
 respondents under which certain disputes with one of the
 respondents were settled and it was agreed that the forest be cut
 in accordance with an earlier agreement dated 27.10.1948. This
 agreement of 27.02.1953 also contained an arbitration agreement.
 Disputes, however, arose between the parties to this agreement of
 27.02.1953. The respondents, therefore, filed an application under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act, 1940, to have the disputes
 referred to arbitration. The appellant opposed reference to
 arbitration inter alia on the ground that the respondents had made
 allegations of fraud against him in their application. Thus, it was
 the respondents who sought a reference to arbitration, who had made
 the allegations of fraud against the appellant. In respect of this
 contention, the Supreme Court held:- That was a case of partnership between two brothers
 containing an arbitration clause. One of the brothers
 gave notice to the other for dissolving the partnership.
 The other brother thereupon brought an action alleging
 various charges of fraud and claiming that the notice
 should be declared void and no announcement of the
 dissolution of partnership should be allowed. Thereupon
 the brother who was charged with fraud moved that the
 matter be referred to arbitration under the arbitration
 clause. That was resisted and the court held that "in a
 case where fraud is charged, the court will in general
 refuse to send the dispute to arbitration if the party
 charged with the fraud desires a public inquiry. But
 where the objection to arbitration is by the party
 charging the fraud, the court will not necessarily
 accede to it, and will never do so unless a prima facie
 case of fraud is proved". (14) This case certainly lays down that where
 allegations of fraud are made, the party against whom
 such allegations are made may successfully resist the
 reference to arbitration. ARB-224-2014 - 17 - (15) The principle of this case was followed in Osenton and Company v. Johnston , 1942 AC 130. In that
 case a firm of estate agents and surveyors resisted the
 reference to an official referee under Section 89 of the
 Judicature Act of 1925. The decision of an official
 referee could not be called in question by appeal or
 otherwise except, on a point of law as provided by
 Section 1 of the Administration of Justice Act, 1932.
 The firm therefore contended that as their professional
 reputation was involved the matter should not be
 referred to the official referee and the House of Lords
 held that as the professional reputation of the
 appellants was involved, that question should not be
 left to the final decision without appeal of an official
 referee but should be tried before the normal tribunal
 of a High Court with a jury. (16) The principle of these cases has also been
 followed in India with reference to cases coming under Sections 20 and 34 of the Act. (See, Manindra Chandra
 Nandy v. H.V. Low & Co. Ltd., AIR 1924 Cal 796, Narsingh
 Prasad v. Dhanraj Mills, ILR 21 Pat 544 : (AIR 1943 pat 53), Union of India v. Firm Vishydha Ghee Vyopar Mandal,
 ILR (1953) 1 All 423 : ( AIR 1951 All 541) Sudhangsu
 Bhattacharjee v. Ruplekha Pictures , AIR 1954 Cal 281. (17) There is no doubt that where serious
 allegations of fraud are made against a party and the
 party who is charged with fraud desires that the matter
 should be tried in open court,that would be a sufficient
 cause for the court not to order an arbitration
 agreement to be filed and not to make the reference. But
 it is not every allegation imputing some kind of
 dishonesty, particularly in matters of accounts, which
 would be enough to dispose a court to take the matter
 out of the forum which the parties themselves have
 chosen. This to our mind is clear even from the decision
 in Russell's case (1880) 14 Ch D 471. In that case there
 were allegations of constructive and actual fraud by one
 brother against the other and it was in those
 circumstances that the court made the observations to
 which we have referred above. Even so, the learned
 Master of the Rolls also observed in the course of the
 judgment at p. 476 as follows:- In the facts of the present case, I do not find the respondent's
 allegations of fraud having been proved prima facie. The petitioner
 has indeed itself alleged fraud against its franchisees. The
 petitioner may well be liable to indemnify the respondent for the
 loss caused to it on account of the fraud on the part of its
 franchisees. The financial liability of the petitioner on account
 of the fraud of the third party is an entirely different thing from
 saying that the petitioner is guilty of the fraud. Such a situation
 does not warrant refusal of a reference to arbitration. Further, it
 is not clear as to whether the respondent is clearly of the view
 that the petitioner is also guilty of fraud or whether the
 petitioner is merely liable to the respondent on account of the
 fraud committed by its franchisees. An FIR has been filed against
 the petitioner. Though it is possible that the respondent believes PARKASH CHAND 2015.10.21 17:54 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document ARB-224-2014 - 20 - that the petitioner has committed a fraud in collusion with its
 franchisees, it appears that the respondent is not absolutely clear
 itself regarding the role played by the petitioner. Further
 investigations are on. Moreover, one of the main issues to be tried
 is the effect of the settlement dated 31.03.2014. 25. In this view of the matter, it is not necessary for me
 to consider the effect of the order passed in Swiss Timing Limited
 vs. Commonwealth Games 2010 Organising Committee,(2014) 6 SCC 677
 where the Supreme Court observed that the judgment of the Supreme
 Court in N. Radhakrishnan vs. Maestro Engineers and others (supra)
 is per incurium. 26. The petition is, therefore, disposed of by appointing
 Justice Mukul Mudgal, former Chief Justice of the Punjab & Haryana
 High Court, as the sole Arbitrator.