1. The legal question in the instant case, inter alia, is, whether, on the 

demise of a tenant, his heirs can inter se seek to partition the tenanted 

premises and pray for declaration of their separate shares therein. 2. Facts, as set out in the plaint, may be recounted. Late Birbal Singh was 

a tenant in shop no. 267, Bara Bazar, Shahdara, Delhi at monthly rental of 

Rs. 03.64/­ under the landlordship of Sh. Bhagwat Pershad and Sh. Durga CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 2 of 34 Pershad for more than six decades. Presently, defendant no. 5 Gian Chand is 

stated to be the landlord. Late Birbal Singh was a goldsmith and used the 

tenanted shop as such. On personal front, he had two spouses. Children from 

his first marriage, who are not parties to the instant suit, lived separately and, 

it is stated, had got their share during their father's lifetime and they thus have 

no concern with the dispute vis­a­vis the tenanted shop. From the second 

marriage, it appears from the plaint, he was blessed with three sons, namely, 

Bhagat Ram (plaintiff's late husband), Ram Kishan Verma (D­2) and Bhim 

Sain (D­1). In November, 1988, Birbal Singh left, in Shakespeare's words, for 

the undiscover'd country, from whose bourn no traveller returns. 3. Plaintiff, widow of late Bhagat Ram, avers that her father­in­law late 

Birbal Singh used to be assisted by all his three sons in running the shop. 

Besides assisting their father, they also used to look after their separate 

businesses. Bhagat Ram, plaintiff's husband, left for his heavenly abode on 

10.04.2000. 4. During his lifetime, late Birbal Singh is stated to have permitted his 

grandson Sushil Kr. Verma (D­4), a legal practitioner, to run his office from 

rear portion of the tenanted shop. Bhim Sain (D­1), however, allegedly used 

to harass and threaten Sushil (D­4) to dispossess him from the tenanted shop. 

Sushil (D­4) then lodged a police complaint, whereupon a case under section 

145 , Criminal Procedure Code ( CrPC ) came to be registered. During 

'investigation' plaintiff's late husband is stated to have given statement to the CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 3 of 34 police on 24.07.1992 to the effect that the tenanted shop was being used by 

Sushil (D­4) in terms of permission granted by late Birbal Singh and that all 

the three brothers were entitled to it and further that they would settle the 

matter amicably on return of Ram Kishan Verma (D­2), who was serving in 

UP Police at Moradabad. Plaintiff's late husband, it is stated, in his statement 

to the police also accused Bhim Sain (D­1) of wanting to usurp the tenanted 

shop all to himself. During the 'investigation', it is stated, the tenanted shop 

was locked and its keys remained with plaintiff's late husband with the 

consent of all the defendants. Plaintiff goes on to state that this was done so 

that there could be an amicable resolution of the disputes qua the shop upon 

return of Ram Kishan Verma from his place of posting. However, that 

occasion never came during plaintiff's husband's lifetime. 5. D­4 Sushil also filed a criminal complaint under sections 420 , 467 , 471 , 474 read with section 120B of Indian Penal Code, 1860 against Bhim 

Sain (D­1) and his associates. In his criminal complaint, Sushil (D­4) alleged 

that Bhim Sain (D­1) had forged and fabricated a Will purportedly executed 

by late Balbir Singh on 11.11.1987 qua the tenanted shop. 6. He also instituted a civil suit for permanent and mandatory injunctions 

bearing no. 534/92 titled as 'S. K. Verma Vs. Bhim Sain & Anr.' Plaintiff 

avers that her husband, being a brain TB patient, was bed­ridden under 

constant medical treatment for 2 ½ years and that he never ever appeared 

before the Court of Sh. A. K. Kuhar, Ld. Civil Judge. She states that Bhim CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 4 of 34 Sain (D­1) obtained vakalatnama from her husband to engage a lawyer on his 

behalf, but he 'controlled' all the proceedings, drafting etc. She goes on to 

state that her husband was mentally and physically incapacitated and was 

surviving only on medicines which lasted up to 10.04.2000, when he 

breathed his last. 7. At the time of plaintiff's husband's death ceremony, all the relatives, 

including the defendants, gathered at her residence and are stated to have 

assured her that she would be given her due share in the tenanted shop and 

that her son, then aged 16 years, would be adjusted in the shop's business. 

They further assured to help the plaintiff in marriages of her three daughters. 

However, all these assurances, it is alleged, turned out to be hollow. Plaintiff 

avers that after her husband's demise she was in a great shock as she had to 

shoulder the responsibilities of her grown­up children with no income. She 

also avers that after her husband's demise Bhim Sain (D­1) and his children 

used to initially visit her house and that everything in her house was open to 

them as usual. 8. In July, 2000 plaintiff visited the market and to her surprise saw D­3 

Manoj (son of D­1 Bhim Sain) sitting at the tenanted shop and operating the 

shop's business. On inquiry, she came to know that Bhim Sain (D­1) and 

Manoj (D­3) had entered into a settlement with D­2 Ram Kishan Verma and 

D­4 Sushil and that pursuant to the settlement Bhim Sain (D­1) and Manoj 

(D­3) became the 'sole owner/tenant' of the shop in question. She then CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 5 of 34 inspected the judicial file of civil suit bearing no. 534/92 titled as 'S.K. 

Verma Vs. Bhim Sain & Anr.' and came to know that the same had been 

withdrawn on 12.05.2000 and that one H.L. Kapoor, Advocate had given 

statement on her husband's behalf despite the fact that he was no more in this 

world. She thus accuses the defendants of having played a fraud upon her and 

states that she has been deprived of her legitimate rights in the shop and its 

business. Plaintiff's claim is that she is entitled to 1/3rd share in the tenanted 

shop. She alleges that despite her entitlement to a share in the shop, Bhim 

Sain (D­1) and Manoj (D­3) did not let her son sit at the shop. On these 

averments, plaintiff seeks the following reliefs: 9. Bhim Sain (D­1) and Manoj (D­3) entered the contest by filing their 

written statement on 24.12.2003. They admit that late Birbal Singh was the 

original tenant of the shop and that he used to do goldsmith business therein. 

However, according to them, after late Birbal Singh's demise, it is Bhim Sain 

(D­1) alone who has been in actual physical possession of the shop in his 

capacity as a tenant and paying rentals thereof to defendant no. 5. They assert 

that except for Bhim Sain, late Birbal Singh was not assisted either by Ram 

Kishan Verma (D­2) or by plaintiff's late husband in the goldsmith business. 

They thus take the stand that Bhagat Ram (plaintiff's late husband) and Ram 

Kishan Verma (D­2), by their implied conduct, surrendered their tenancy 

rights in favour of Bhim Sain (D­1). 10. Bhagat Ram, it is pointed out, on the contrary, had categorically 

admitted that Bhim Sain (D­1) was in actual physical possession of the shop 

as a tenant of defendant no. 5 and that he (D­1) was doing goldsmith business 

therein with the assistance of his son Manoj (D­3) after his father's demise. 

They state that in fact Bhagat Ram from the very beginning was doing an 

independent business of his own as a fruit and vegetable broker in Subzi 

Mandi, near Radhu Cinema, Shahdara, Delhi. They aver that one shop 

bearing no. 26 was allotted to the plaintiff and her late husband. They submit 

that plaintiff's late husband never paid any rent to the landlord. They go on to CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 7 of 34 submit that Bhagat Ram had been given his due share and had been separated 

by late Birbal Singh during his lifetime. They thus urge that Bhagat Ram, by 

his implied conduct, surrendered his tenancy rights in favour of Bhim Sain 

(D­1). They also urge that on the basis of principle of estoppel, the plaintiff 

now cannot claim any right in the shop. 11. As regards Ram Kishan Verma (D­2), they submit that he, being in 

U.P. Police, used to always remain at his place of posting and as such never 

had any time to assist his father at the shop. Ram Kishan Verma (D­2) too, it 

is stated, had admitted that after his father's demise, Bhim Sain (D­1) was the 

only tenant of the shop. They point out that even Ram Kishan Verma (D­2) 

never claimed and asserted his tenancy right in the shop and never paid any 

rent to the landlord. They thus submit that he too had impliedly surrendered 

his tenancy right qua the shop in favour of Bhim Sain (D­1). 12. Defendants Bhim Sain and Manoj go on to deny that late Birbal Singh 

permitted Sushil (D­4) to run his office from the shop. They state that the suit 

filed by Sushil (D­4) was a false one, which was later on withdrawn as 

compromised at the instance of plaintiff's late husband who had categorically 

admitted that Bhim Sain (D­1) was the only tenant. They aver that Bhagat 

Ram had appointed and given vakalatnama to his advocate and that, prior to 

his death, he had given his consent to the compromise in the civil suit. 

According to them, plaintiff's late husband in the civil suit filed by D­4 had 

admitted that defendant no. 1 was the only tenant. As regards, the criminal CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 8 of 34 complaint filed by Sushil (D­4), they submit that 'as a matter of fact, there 

was no alleged such Will as alleged by defendant no. 4 in the alleged 

complaint'. Initiation of proceedings under section 145 , CrPC at the instance 

Sushil (D­4) is not specifically denied. 13. Aside from the above, D­1 and D­3 have taken few legal objections. 

They state that the suit is hit by the law of limitation, barred under the 

principles of law of estoppel and without any cause of action. They also state 

that the plaintiff, being out of possession of the tenanted premises, ought to 

have valued the suit for the purpose of court fees as per its market value. It is 

also pointed out that the tenanted shop is an impartible estate. They seek 

dismissal of the suit. 14. Defendant no. 4 Sushil, as per report of the process server, was served 

on 11.12.2001 through someone else. He was again served on 20.03.2002. 

Defendant Sushil was personally served on 17.12.2003 and on 13.01.2004. 

Process was issued to defendant no. 5 Gian Chand on numerous occasions, 

however he remained unserved with the report that his premises was locked. 

On 27.03.2002 process server visited his house where his servant met who 

informed that Gian Chand was available at his shop. Defendant Gian Chand 

was thereafter served through affixation on 05.09.2002. Insofar as D­2 Ram 

Kishan Verma (father of D­4 Sushil), who was resident of Ghaziabad, is 

concerned, he remained unserved with a report dt. 14.01.2003 of the process 

server to the effect that he does not reside at the given address. The record CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 9 of 34 reveals that D­4 Sushil suffered the proceeding ex parte on 04.03.2004. D­5 

Gian Chand suffered the proceeding ex parte on 18.03.2004. Order dt. 

07.04.2004 reflects that D­2 Ram Kishan Verma is 'already ex parte'. I must 

note that on the demise of D­2 Ram Kishan Verma his legal heirs were 

served through publication in the newspaper, 'Rashtriya Sahara' dt. 

24.01.2014. In any event, D­2 Ram Kishan would have had the knowledge of 

the pendency of the present case inasmuch as his son (D­4 Sushil) stood 

served on numerous occasions. For the present purpose, I shall take that D­2 

Ram Kishan Verma, D­4 Sushil and D­5 Gian Chand are ex parte. 15. The issues, struck on 09.08.2007, are as follows: OPP 3) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a decree of possession, if such 

 preliminary decree is passed? OPP 4) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a decree of permanent injunction 

 restraining the defendants from parting with possession, alienating, 

 transferring or creating third party interest in the suit property? OPP CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 10 of 34 5) Whether the present suit is barred by the reason of improper valuation 

 for the purpose of court fee and jurisdiction? OPD 6) Relief. 16. Plaintiff Smt. Krishna Devi entered the witness box as PW1. Her 

examination­in­chief is entirely along the same lines as averred in the body of 

the plaint. She exhibited the site plan as Ex. PW1/1. Mahesh Verma 

(plaintiff's younger sister's husband) and Umesh Chand Verma (father­in­law 

of plaintiff's daughter) were examined as PW2 and PW3 respectively. 17. In defendants' evidence, defendant Bhim Sain examined himself as 

DW1. He exhibited his affidavit and supplementary affidavit as Ex. DW1/1 

and Ex. DW1/2 respectively. He relied upon large number of documents, 

which are as follows: 18. One A.M. Kukreti, Mandi Supervisor, was examined as DW3. He 

exhibited copy of an application submitted by plaintiff Krishna Devi for 

renewal of license for the year 2008­2009 qua Gazipur Subzi Mandi shop as 

Ex. DW3/1. He also proved on record the aforesaid document Ex. DW1/O. 

As regards the aforenoted document Ex. Mark A, he stated that the same, 

being a licence given in original to the trader, was not available in the office 

record of the Mandi. 19. Mehar Singh, LDC, Record Room (Sessions), Tis Hazari Courts was 

examined as DW4. He stated that judicial file of civil suit no. 710/93 

(decided on 22.01.1993) had been destroyed on 14.06.2006. He exhibited the 

certificate in this regard as Ex. DW4/A. 20. DW5 was one Sh. Yogesh Raj, Inspector, Weight and Measurement. 

He exhibited a letter dt. 23.11.2009 under the signatures of Zonal Officer CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 13 of 34 (East Zone), Weights and Measures Department, Delhi addressed to the 

Court as Ex. DW5/A. Copy of a cash book is Ex. DW5/B. Copy of Weight 

and Measures Verification Certificate dt. 07.04.1992 in the name of Bhim 

Sain is Mark DW5/C (Original of this document is Ex. DW1/ZF). 21. Kamal Kishore, LDC, Copying Agency (Civil), Tis Hazari Courts, 

Delhi stepped into the witness box as DW6. He stated that documents Ex. 

DW1/A and Ex. DW1/B were issued by Copying Agency (Civil), Tis Hazari 

Courts. Copy of the relevant page of the copying agency register containing 

the relevant entry in this regard is Ex. DW6/1. 22. DW7 was one Inderjeet, UDC, Record Room, Tis Hazari Courts, 

Delhi. He appeared with the judicial file of the CS no. 534/92 and proved 

documents Ex. DW1/A and DW1/B. 23. Deepak son of Gian Chand was examined as DW8. He stated that he 

owned shop no. 267, Bada Bazar, Shahdara, Delhi and that he had issued rent 

receipts Ex. DW1/Y to DW1/ZE under his signatures to Bhim Sain Verma. 

He also stated that rent receipts Ex. DW1/U to Ex. DW1/X had been issued 

by his father. Copy of rent receipt counter foil dt. 01.01.2001 is Ex. DW8/A. 24. DW9 was one Rajesh Kumar, LDC, Copying Agency, Tis Hazari 

Court. He proved no document as the summoned record had been destroyed. 

In this regard, he placed on record copy of a letter dt. 19.12.2009 {Ex. 

DW9/A (colly)} addressed by Officer­In­Charge, Copying Agency Branch, 

Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi to Ld. District & Sessions Judge, Delhi. CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 14 of 34 25. I have heard the arguments at Bar and perused the record. 26. Issuewise findings are as follows. 27. Issue no. 2 ­ The issue is whether the plaintiff proves that she is 

entitled to a preliminary decree of partition qua the tenanted shop in question. 

This issue can be dealt with from a purely legal perspective. The law is well 

settled that on the death of a tenant, it is a single indivisible tenancy that 

devolves upon his heirs. No amount of evidence and astute drafting of 

pleadings would suffice to overwhelm this settled legal position. If any 

citation is needed, then the decision reported as Delhi Cloth Market Trust 

Committee Vs. Sheila Devi, 2001 Rajdhani Law Reporter 63 can be referred 

to in this regard. In this case, Delhi High Court, relying on an Apex Court 

decision of Harish Tandon Vs. Addl . D.M., AIR 1995 SC 676, held that a 

deceased tenant's legal heirs inherit a single, indivisible tenancy. The relevant 

observations in this regard are as follows: She was, at best, one of the joint owners of a single indivisible 
 tenancy. It was not and could not be a case of Babu Ram's tenancy 
 converting upon his death in 1972 into eight separate tenancies. 28. The bottomline, therefore, is that in the face of this settled legal 

position plaintiff Smt. Krishna Devi cannot seek partition of the tenanted 

shop, of which her father­in­law late Birbal Singh was the original tenant. 

And any amount of evidence from her side will not be enough to surmount 

this law of the land. The tenancy that devolved upon the heirs of late Birbal 

Singh, upon his demise, was single and indivisible. The tenancy, being single 

and indivisible, therefore couldn't and cannot be subjected to divisions. 

Consequently, the relief of partition of the tenanted shop, as sought for by 

plaintiff Smt. Krishna Devi, cannot be granted. This issue thus stands decided 

against the plaintiff. 29. Issue no. 3 ­ The issue is whether the plaintiff proves that she is 

entitled to a decree of possession, if such preliminary decree is passed. 

Plaintiff Smt. Krishna Devi seeks possession of 1/3rd portion of the tenanted 

shop consequent to its partition by metes and bounds. But, as already held 

hereinabove, she cannot, under the law, seek partition of the tenanted shop. In CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 16 of 34 this view of the matter, this Court cannot grant possession of any portion of 

the tenanted shop to her; and that too by dispossessing defendant Bhim Sain 

who is admittedly in occupation thereof. This issue too goes against the 

plaintiff. 30. Issue no. 1 ­ The issue is whether the plaintiff proves that she is 

entitled to a decree of declaration to the effect that she is entitled to 1/3 rd 

share in the joint property bearing no. 267, Bara Bazar, Shahdara, Delhi and 

that she is a joint tenant in the joint property. 31. In view of the decision on issue no. 2, this Court cannot issue a 

declaratory decree to the effect that plaintiff Smt. Krishna Devi is entitled to 

a fraction (1/3rd) of the tenanted shop. A deceased tenant's legal heir or 

his/her spouse cannot, under the extant law, be granted a declaratory decree 

to the effect that he/she is entitled to a certain fraction of the tenanted shop. 

This is simply impermissible. 32. The second limb of this issue is whether the plaintiff is entitled to a 

declaration that she is a 'joint tenant' in the tenanted shop. At the outset, I 

must state that declaratory relief is a discretionary one and this is quite 

evident from a bare reading of section 34 , Specific Relief Act, 1963. 33. This Court is conscious of the Apex Court verdict as to heritability of 

a non­residential tenancy (Gian Devi Anand Vs. Jeevan Kaur, AIR 1985 

SC 796). And therefore, on the demise of Birbal Singh in November, 1988, 

the tenancy right in the shop would have devolved upon all his legal heirs. CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 17 of 34 But, it ought to be also borne in mind that the law also provides for implied 

surrender of tenancy { Section 111 (f) , Transfer of Property Act}. The Apex 

Court in Pushpa Rani Vs. Bhagwanti Devi , AIR 1994 SC 774 accepted a 

contention based on implied surrender and also, inter alia, held that this 

principle does not clash with the principle of heritability of non­residential 

tenancy. The relevant observations are as under: 34. Therefore, in order to ascertain whether plaintiff Smt. Krishna Devi is 

entitled to a declaratory decree that she is a 'joint tenant' in the tenanted shop, 

it is necessary to determine as to whether or not there is/was an implied 

surrender of the tenancy right on her or her husband's part. In the context of CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 18 of 34 implied surrender of tenancy, in Delhi Cloth Market (supra) it was observed 

as under: For instance, if one of the joint tenants ceases to participate in the 
 joint business and goes away to another town, does not return for 
 some time and settles down there, an implied surrender by him 
 would be inferred. 24. The period here is a very long one. For as many as 13 years 
 there was no assertion of that right by plaintiff Shiela Devi. With 
 no assertion, even half of that period would have sufficed to raise 
 an inference of implied surrender. After all, if a person has a right, 
 not only exercise but assertion of that right is expected. 25. If the plaintiff had placed material of record which would have 
 persuaded the court to hold that it was she and not the others who 
 were in actual possession and running the business in the 
 premises, the position would have been quite different. In the 
 absence of any material on record, it must be held that there was 
 an implied surrender of the rights by Shiela Devi. CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 19 of 34 35. In the case at hand, ever since November, 1988 till year August, 2000 

(when the instant suit was filed), there was never an assertion of the tenancy 

right by plaintiff's husband or any of his legal heirs, including the plaintiff. 

DW8 Deepak son of Gian Chand in his evidence categorically stated that 

ever since 1983, it is Bhim Sain who has been paying the rentals. He also 

stated that rent receipts Ex. DW1/Y to Ex. DW1/ZE were issued by him to 

Bhim Sain. The counterfoils of these rent receipts, DW8 Deepak stated, bear 

the signatures of Bhim Sain. That apart, DW1 Bhim Sain produced large 

number of original rent receipts starting from 1979 till the year 2003 from his 

possession and exhibited them on record. DW8 Deepak in his evidence also 

stated, "No other person never tried to pay the rent of the disputed property 

except Sh. Bhim Sain Verma." This clinching evidence regarding payment of 

rentals by none else, except for Bhim Sain, is ipso facto sufficient to hold that 

it was Bhim Sain who had all along been asserting his tenancy right. The fact 

that no other person except for Bhim Sain, ever tried to pay the rent only goes 

to show that the other heirs of Birbal Singh were not interested to assert their 

tenancy right. It is one thing to say that a person has a right, but an entirely 

different thing to say that such a right is asserted. 36. Plaintiff in her evidence deposed that the rent used to be alway paid by 

her husband. This evidence of the plaintiff is not backed by any material on 

record. There is no document whatsoever on record to even remotely suggest 

that late Bhagat Ram had paid the rent even on one occasion. The mere self CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 20 of 34 serving ipse dixit of PW1 Krishna Devi in this regard would not suffice. This 

would also not suffice to set at naught large number of rent receipts that 

Bhim Sain produced from his possession and the deposition of DW8 Deepak 

as noted hereinabove. 37. It was further the plaintiff's stand that her husband used to deliver the 

rent to the landlord and receive rent receipt(s) in favour of Birbal Singh. 

However, this averment remains only an averment without anything to 

substantiate it. The question to be asked is if at all late Bhagat Ram used to 

deliver the rent to the landlord and take rent receipt(s), then why is it that 

counterfoil of not even one rent receipt bear his signatures. That apart, if late 

Bhagat Ram used to obtain the rent receipts, then why is that plaintiff has not 

been able to produce even a single rent receipt from her possession. Lastly, 

this portion of evidence of the plaintiff is in stark contrast with that of DW8 

Deepak when he states that no other person, other than Bhim Sain, ever tried 

to pay rent to me. For very obvious reasons, on this score, I cannot accept the 

self serving ipse dixit of the plaintiff and discard that of DW8 Deepak and 

more so when there is absolutely no material on record to back up this claim 

of hers. 38. Plaintiff alleges that rent receipts in favour of Bhim Sain are forged. 

However, it is not stated as to how and in what manner such rent receipts of 

Bhim Sain are forged. Secondly, what is very striking is that there was not a 

single suggestion put to DW8 Deepak to the effect that rent receipts of Bhim CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 21 of 34 Sain are forged. What is, therefore, absolutely clear is that plaintiff's 

allegation regarding the forgery of rent receipts of Bhim Sain are perfunctory 

at best. 39. Great stress was laid by plaintiff on the fact that DW8 Deepak in his 

examination­in­chief stated, "Bhim Sain Verma is not my tenant. Birbal is my 

tenant". Plaintiff also drew Court's attention to the following statements of 

DW8 Deepak in his cross­examination, "It is correct that the receipt issued 

by me even after the death of Birbal was in favour of Birbal as tenant. All the 

receipts were issued in the name of Birbal Singh as my tenant. The receipt 

Ex. DW1/U to to ZE (colly) bears the name of Birbal as my tenant. No rent 

receipt were issued to Bhim Sain Verma as tenant. It is correct that the rent 

receipt were not issued to Bhim Sain verma as he was not my tenant. Sh. 

Birbal was my tenant. It is correct that I have not issued the rent receipt to 

Sh. Bhim Sen as tenant." Riding on this portion of deposition of DW8 

Deepak it was strongly urged that Bhim Sain Verma cannot be considered to 

be the tenant. However, this line of argument of the plaintiff is seriously 

flawed for the following reasons. (a) The issue here is not whether the defendant Bhim Sain is the 

 tenant or not; but the issue is whether the plaintiff proves that she is the 

 co­tenant. Therefore, the fact that DW8 Deepak in his evidence stated, 

 "Bhim Sain Verma is not my tenant. Birbal is my tenant" cannot in any 

 manner be inferred to say that it was Bhagat Ram who was actually the CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 22 of 34 tenant and that he had asserted his tenancy rights all along ever since his 

 father's demise. To the negative averment that, 'Bhim Sain Verma is not 

 my tenant', a positive spin cannot be put that 'Bhagat Ram or his legal 

 heirs are the tenant(s) and that they had all along asserted their tenancy 

 rights'. (b) It should not be forgotten that DW8, in the same breath, also 

 stated in categorical terms that it was Bhim Sain who had been paying 

 the rentals since 1983 and that no person other than him ever tried to 

 pay the rentals. (c) DW8 Deepak states that Birbal is my tenant and that rent receipts 

 are being issued in his name even after his demise. The question to be 

 asked is whether a dead person can be a tenant. The answer has to be 

 emphatically in the negative. DW8 Deepak errs on the side of caution 

 when he states that Birbal, who is no more in this world, is his tenant 

 and that rent receipts are still being issued in his name. DW8 Deepak is 

 not a legally trained mind. He does not know the intricacies of law. He 

 is perhaps unmindful of the legal principle of surrender of tenancy 

 rights as contained in section 111 (f) , Transfer of Property Act. It is just 

 like a layman not being as aware of medical science as a medical 

 practitioner would be. To him, upon the demise of a tenant, all his heirs 

 succeed to the tenancy, little realising that one who makes no assertion 

 of the tenancy right over a long period of time is said to surrender it. CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 23 of 34 Whether a particular legal heir of a deceased tenant asserts his tenancy 

 right or not, would not make much of an impression upon a landlord. To 

 him all the legal heirs are the co­tenants, irrespective of whether any 

 legal heir asserts his tenancy right or not. Secondly, the landlord would 

 not like himself to be seen in the crossfire between the legal heirs and it 

 would be in his interest to maintain neutrality. And for this reason, it is 

 safe for him to continue to issue rent receipt in the name of a dead 

 person and assume that the dead person continues to be his tenant. And 

 thirdly, landlord would not in a position to return a verdict as to whether 

 a particular heir has surrendered his tenancy right, and if so, from what 

 point of time. It is for the Court to delve into this issue. So long as the 

 Court does not return a finding on this aspect, the landlord Deepak may 

 blissfully believe that the dead man continues to be his tenant. To my 

 mind, it is in this light that this statement of DW8 Depak has to be read. 

 And therefore, when he says that Birbal is his tenant, it should not be 

 taken as an assertion of the fact that Bhagat Ram or his legal heirs had 

 asserted his tenancy right after Birbal Singh's demise. (d) Lastly, even if the landlord were to say that a particular heir is 

 his tenant, notwithstanding the fact that he did nothing at all to assert his 

 tenancy right upon his father's demise, and it comes on record that in 

 fact it was some other heir who had been paying the rentals and taking 

 all other steps for continuation of the tenancy and the business; yet the CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 24 of 34 word of the landlord would not be the final word and the Court would 

 not sail along with what he says in the face of overwhelming evidence 

 that it was some other heir who was actually doing all that was required 

 to continue the tenancy and the business. 40. The point therefore is that DW8 Deepak's statement to the effect that 

dead man continues to be his tenant and that rent receipts are being issued in 

his name, even after he reached death's door, will not take the plaintiff out of 

the woods. There is another perspective of this issue. At no point of time did 

Bhagat Ram ever write or correspond with his landlord regarding any matter 

concerning the tenancy. He never ever wrote to the landlord, after his father's 

demise, that it is from him (Bhagat Ram) from whom he (landlord) must 

accept the rent. At least, there is not a single averment to this effect in the 

entire plaint and plaintiff's evidence. Leave aside ever writing to the landlord 

about payment of the rentals, Bhagat Ram perhaps never ever met the 

landlord with with the purpose of conveying to the latter his intention to pay 

the rentals. The plaint is absolutely silent in this regard. Further, Bhagat Ram 

never took recourse to section 27 , Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958. What is 

therefore clear is that the desire to carry forward the tenancy and the business 

from the tenanted shop was not there in plaintiff's late husband. 41. The fact that Bhagat Ram had no desire to carry forward the tenancy 

and the business from the tenanted shop in question is fortified by another 

circumstance. There is positive evidence on record to establish that Bhagat CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 25 of 34 Ram was carrying on a separate business from Subji Mandi, Shahdara. There 

is copy of an application dt. 15.02.1985 addressed by Bhagat Ram to the 

Secretary, Agricultural Produce Market Committee, Azadpur, Delhi­33. This 

application (Ex. DW1/O) is for renewal of licence for trade in vegetables and 

fruits. This document, which stands proved by DW3 A.M. Kukreti, Mandi 

Supervisor, concerns a shop bearing no. 26, Subzi Mandi, Shahdara. Written 

text of this document reveals that the licence was sought for in the name of 

'M/s Birbal Singh Bhagat Ram Verma'. Now the question is whether Bhagat 

Ram was continuing with the business of fruits and vegetables even after the 

demise of Birbal Singh from his shop at the Subzi Mandi. Material on record 

strongly suggests that Bhagat Ram had not discontinued his separate business 

at the Subzi Mandi. Going by testimonies of DW3 and DW1, this very Subzi 

Mandi was later on shifted to Gazipur, Delhi to facilitate construction of 

Shahdara Metro station. DW3 A.M. Kukreti states, "In our record the 

 renewal form
 in the name of Smt. Krishna Devi as proprietor of M/s 
 Birbal
 

Bhagat Ram is available. The renewal form is dated 8/9/2008 and it also 

bears the photographs of Smt. Krishna Devi. The licence is now being issued 

in the name of the firm which is being operated by Smt. Krishna Devi as 

proprietor and the said firm
 is doing business of
 vegetables and fruits
 . At 

present Smt. Krishna Devi is depositing licence fee. The photocopy of licence 

renewal form dated 8/9/2008 is Ex. DW3/1." The fact that a 'renewal' form in 

the name of 'M/s Birbal Bhagat Ram' was furnished and that the business is CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 26 of 34 that of 'vegetables and fruits' continued by none other than the spouse of 

Bhagat Ram is a strong indicator of the fact that the separate business in 

fruits and vegetables was not discontinued after the demise of Birbal Singh. 

Howsoever much the plaintiff (PW1) may refute her husband carrying on a 

separate business and PW2 and PW3 feign ignorance about it, fact of the 

matter would remain that there is positive evidence on record to prove that 

Bhagat Ram was carrying on a separate business of fruits and vegetables at 

Subzi Mandi. I must also mention here that at one place in her cross­

examination plaintiff (PW1) does admit that there is a shop at Gazipur in her 

name since the very beginning and that the photograph Ex. Mark A (in the 

affidavit of DW1 this photograph is referred to as Ex. Mark B) is of this very 

shop. 42. Next, Bhagat Ram, at no point of time after his father's demise, was in 

occupation of the shop with the avowed purpose of doing business. Going by 

plaintiff's averments in the plaint and her testimony, in the early 1990s (circa 

1992) the tenanted shop was locked and its keys remained with her late 

husband with the consent of all the defendants. And this was done, plaintiff 

states, pursuant to onset of litigations by Sushil (D­4) against Bhim Sain 

Verma (D­1). Plaintiff goes on to state that the idea behind this was that there 

could be an amicable resolution of disputes qua the shop upon return of Ram 

Kishan Verma from his place of posting. However, the fact that keys of the 

shop remained with Bhagat Ram at a certain point of time in the early 1990s CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 27 of 34 would not be suggestive of the fact that he retained so with the avowed 

purpose of doing business therefrom. On the contrary, plaintiff's own 

deposition is to the effect that keys of the shop were kept with her husband 

merely as a stopgap arrangement, on the commencement of litigations, so that 

the disputes could be resolved upon return of Ram Kishan Verma (D­2) from 

his place of posting. Now, going by plaintiff's own stand, her husband did not 

have keys of the shop with the understanding that he would start a business of 

his own therefrom; but he had the keys because disputes had cropped up 

between Bhim Sain (D­1) and Sushil (D­4) and that the disputes were to be 

resolved upon return of Ram Kishan Verma (D­2). 43. In any event of the matter, there is no evidence on record to even 

remotely suggest that Bhagat Ram ever did any business from the tenanted 

shop. Plaintiff's evidence on this aspect is woefully inadequate. All that the 

plaintiff has to say is that her husband used to assist his father in the business. 

But whether he used to assist his father during his lifetime or not would not 

be in any manner a decisive factor. The point is whether after his father's 

demise he asserted his tenancy rights. Rendering assistance to father during 

his lifetime would not mean that the son/daughter has also started asserting 

his tenancy right. This is for the reason that so along as the father is alive, it 

is he who would remain the tenant irrespective of the fact that his 

son/daughter renders him great assistance in the business. And logically 

speaking, there can be no assertion of tenancy right by any one heir so long CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 28 of 34 as the original tenant is alive. An assertion of tenancy on the part of the 

son/daughter would have to be seen from the point of time after original 

tenant's demise. 44. In the case at hand, on the contrary, there is some evidence to prove 

that Bhagat Ram in fact did not carry out any business from the shop after his 

father's demise. And this evidence is offered by DW5 Yogesh Raj (Inspector, 

Weight and Measurement), who proved on record Weight and Measures 

Verification Certificate dt. 07.04.1992 (Mark DW5/C) in the name of Bhim 

Sain. The original of this document was exhibited by DW1 Bhim Sain as Ex. 

DW1/ZF. As is evident, this document is in defendant Bhim Sain's name and 

bears the date 07.04.1992, which is much after Birbal Singh's demise. 

Written text of this document reflects that it pertains to the shop 267, Bara 

Bazar, Shahdara, Delhi, which is the tenanted shop in question. To this 

document, there is no explanation at all from plaintiff's side. 45. Now I shall come to the civil suit bearing no. 534/92 titled as 'S. K. 

Verma Vs. Bhim Sain & Anr.'. It is an admitted fact that brothers Bhim Sain 

and Bhagat Ram were defendants in this case. There is certified copy of an 

affidavit dt. 11.01.1993 of Bhagat Ram filed in the aforesaid civil suit no. 

534/92. This affidavit of Bhagat Ram is Ex. DW1/B. DW7 Inderjeet (UDC, 

Record Room, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi) proved this affidavit from the 

original judicial file itself. In addition thereto, DW6 (Kamal Kishore, LDC, 

Copying Agency (Civil), Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi) proved on record that the CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 29 of 34 certified copy of the affidavit Ex. DW1/B had been issued by Copying 

Agency (Civil), Tis Hazari Courts. This affidavit reveals something very 

vital. And this is that Bhagat Ram had 'adopted the facts, averments and 

defence as taken by defendant no. 1 (Bhim Sain) in the written statement as 

well as in the reply to application under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 read with 

Sect. 151 CPC .' What is clear is that Bhagat Ram did not toe an independent 

line of his own vis­a­vis the shop in question. He was happy 'adopting the 

facts, defence and averments' as set up by his brother Bhim Sain. This 

circumstance, when taken in conjunction with the fact that Bhagat Ram had a 

separate business of his own, does imply that he was in fact not interested in 

asserting his own tenancy right in the shop. 46. Plaintiff attacked the proceedings of the civil suit on the ground that 

defendant Bhim Sain in fact 'controlled' all the proceedings, drafting etc. She 

also states that her husband was mentally and physically incapacitated for the 

last 2 ½ years of his life and that he never ever appeared before the Court of 

Sh. A. K. Kuhar, Ld. Civil Judge. Now, even if an allowance is given to the 

plaintiff for the last 2 ½ years of her husband's life; yet the result would not 

be any different. This is for the reason that the affidavit dates back to 

11.01.1993 and plaintiff's husband passed away more than 7 years later on 

10.04.2000. His medical troubles, as per plaintiff's statement, would have 

started in late 1997. The plaintiff does at all say that her husband did not sign 

and swear the affidavit in 1993. Further, I cannot believe that Bhim Sain CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 30 of 34 'controlled' all the proceedings, drafting etc. The fact of the matter, however, 

is that Bhagat Ram did not really desire to continue the tenancy in the 

tenanted shop and therefore he did not evince much of an interest in the 

litigation. Bhim Sain had much at stake in the shop and therefore he took 

active interest in the litigation. If taking active interest in a litigation by a 

litigant is termed as 'controlling' the proceedings, drafting etc. then I can only 

add that such an averment can certainly not be appreciated. 47. Plaintiff further attacks the civil proceedings on the ground that H.L. 

Kapoor, Advocate on 12.05.2000 gave a statement on behalf of her husband 

notwithstanding the fact that he had passed away on 10.04.2000. But, this 

would not in any manner detract from plaintiff's husband's conduct vis­a­vis 

the tenanted shop, as reflected in the umpteen circumstances noted 

hereinabove, and the affidavit dt. 11.01.1993 (Ex. DW1/B). I can only say 

that the plaintiff may resort to the remedies available to her under the law 

against H.L. Kapoor, Advocate. There is on record 'true copy' of the 

proceedings dt. 12.05.2000, but not proved. If this is any indication as to the 

proceedings that had taken place on 12.05.2000 then it must be noted that no 

terms of compromise were recorded on that day. Sushil (D­4) had merely 

stated that he had withdrawn a case before the High Court and that he 

wanted to withdraw the suit as well for the matter had been amicable settled. 

This statement in no manner states that Bhagat Ram shall have no right in the 

tenanted shop. And a plaintiff may, at his own peril, very well decide not to CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 31 of 34 pursue a civil case. For these reasons, it is my view that this sole 

circumstance does not suffice for this Court to take a different view of the 

matter. 48. Having considered the second limb of this issue from all possible 

perspectives, I find that Bhagat Ram had, by his conduct reflected over a long 

period of time, surrendered his tenancy right in the tenanted shop. It is one 

thing to say that a co­tenant has a tenancy right, but it is a different thing to 

say that such a right is asserted and claimed. And when such a right is not 

asserted and claimed over a long period of time, then under the law such 

tenancy right is said to have been impliedly surrendered. Plaintiff's claim to 

the tenanted shop is derived from that of her husband and in the event of her 

husband having impliedly surrendered his tenancy right, there can be no 

question of any right vis­a­vis the shop flowing to his spouse Krishna Devi. 

Consequently, for the aforesaid multiple reasons I answer the second limb of 

this issue by holding that plaintiff is not entitled to be declared that she is a 

'joint tenant' in the tenanted shop. 49. Both the limbs of this issue go against the plaintiff. This issue (Issue 

no. 1) therefore stands decided against the plaintiff. 50. Issue no. 4 ­ The issue is whether the plaintiff proves that she is 

entitled to a decree of permanent injunction to restrain the defendants from 

parting with possession, alienating, transferring or creating third party 

interest qua the shop. The relief of possession and partition stands declined. CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 32 of 34 The relief of declaration of the plaintiff being a 'joint tenant' and to a certain 

share in the tenanted shop also stands declined. Consequently, defendant 

Bhim Sain, or for that matter any of the defendants including the landlord, 

are under no legal obligation to the plaintiff qua the tenanted shop. A 

perpetual injunction can be issued, in terms of section 38 , Specific Relief Act, 

1963 to prevent breach of an obligation existing in plaintiff's favour. When 

the defendants are under no legal obligation to the plaintiff qua the tenanted 

shop, there can never arise any question of its breach. In any event of the 

matter, this relief of injunction suffers from laches. Bhagat Ram, at no point 

of time, after his father's demise in 1988, asserted his right in the tenanted 

shop. It was only in year 2000 that for the first time such a right came to be 

asserted. For these reasons the relief of permanent injunction, as sought for 

by the plaintiff, cannot be granted. This issue also goes against the plaintiff. 51. Issue no. 5 ­ This issue concerns valuation of the suit for the purposes 

of court fees and jurisdiction. The relief for partition of tenanted premises is 

an unusual one. The Court­fees Act makes no provision for such a suit. 

Under Court­fees Act, provisions are there for partition of partible properties, 

but no provision for partition of tenanted shop which is inherently impartible 

and which in any case cannot be granted under the law. Therefore, given the 

circumstances, the valuation put on the relief of partition by the plaintiff has 

to be taken as correct ( Article 17 (vi) , Schedule II, Court­fees Act, 1870). 

Reliefs of declaration and injunction are valued by the plaintiff at Rs. 200/­ CS no. 256/06 Krishna Devi Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. Page 33 of 34 and Rs. 130/­ respectively. Court fees valuation for the reliefs of injunction 

and declaration with consequential relief is governed by section 7 (iv) , Court­

fees Act and the plaintiff is given a right to place any valuation for the 

purposes of court fees. On the relief of declaration with consequential relief, 

plaintiff is required to pay ad valorem court fees subject to minimum of Rs. 

13/­. On the relief of simplicitor injunction, plaintiff is required to pay ad 

valorem court fees subject to minimum of Rs. 13/­. On the relief of only 

declaration, plaintiff is required to pay fixed court fees of Rs. 15. {see Delhi 

High Court Rules Chapter 3 Part C & D, Volume I}. Plaintiff affixed total 

court fees of Rs. 51 in her plaint which is sufficient. In terms of section 8 , 

Suits Valuation Act the valuation put by plaintiff for court fees would be the 

valuation of reliefs under Suits Valuation Act as well. Consequently, I 

answer this issue by holding that the suit is valued properly for court fees and 

jurisdiction. 52. Relief ­ In the light of findings upon the foregoing issues, this suit 

stands dismissed. No order as to costs. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 

File be consigned to record room.