The appellants who were defendants No.1 and 2 before the trial

court have filed the present appeal challenging the judgment and decree of

the lower appellate court whereby appeal of the plaintiff-respondent was

accepted and suit filed by her for joint possession of half share of the suit

land, was decreed. As per the averments in the suit, one Kishna s/o Rama Nand

was the husband of the plaintiff-respondent who died on 10.4.1972. The

said Kishna was the owner in possession of the suit land to the extent of half

share. After the death of Kishna his share was inherited by her. The

defendants No.1 to 3 were the real nephews of the husband of the plaintiff

who succeeded in obtaining a consent decree dated 3.5.1989 passed in civil

suit No.264 of 26.4.1989 from the court of Shri M.L. Bansal, the then Sub

Judge First Class, Narwana by misrepresentation and by playing fraud upon RSA No.864 of 2010 -: 2 :- the plaintiff and the court. The aforesaid judgment and decree dated

3.5.1989 was null and void. It was further averred that after the death of her

husband, defendants No.1 to 3 took the land on batai from plaintiff who was

having full faith and confidence in them because of their near relationship.

However, in the month of March 2002, defendant No.1 refused to pay any

batai to the plaintiff by saying that she was no more owner of the suit land.

Then she came to know that defendants had played fraud upon her by

obtaining the aforesaid judgment and decree. It is further averred that

plaintiff never appeared in the court nor engaged any counsel and did not

make any statement admitting the claim of defendants No.1 to 3 and it

appears that some other lady was produced by the defendants in the civil

suit No.264 of 1989 instead of the plaintiff. It is her further case that she

never filed any written statement nor engaged Shri Bhim Singh as her

counsel for the aforesaid suit. Neither any family settlement ever took place

between the parties. There was no question of the defendants having any

pre-existing right in the property of the plaintiff as by virtue of Section 14 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, she was the absolute owner of her

property and in fact the judgment and decree dated 3.5.1989 was a devise to

frustrate the law. Hence, the suit. Upon notice, defendants No.1, 2 and 4 to 8 filed their joint

written statement raising various preliminary objections. It was further

submitted that plaintiff was being looked after and served by the defendants

No.1 to 3 and because of that family settlement admitting the claim of

defendants No.1 to 3 took place and plaintiff herself went to the civil court

at Narwana and engaged counsel and filed written statement and gave

statement in the court admitting the family settlement and the decree was RSA No.864 of 2010 -: 3 :- passed accordingly. It was also submitted that the defendants have become

owner in possession of the suit property on the basis of the adverse

possession. Other averments were denied. The parties led oral and documentary evidence in support of

their rival claims and after hearing learned counsel for the parties and going

through the records of the case, the trial court under issues No.1 to 5 held

that the judgment and decree dated 3.5.1989 passed in civil suit no.264 of

1989 was valid and it could not be proved by the plaintiff-respondent that

some impostor was produced in the court in her place. It was also held that

decree was not compulsorily registrable and the suit was barred by

limitation. However, plea of adverse possession taken by the appellants was

also rejected. Consequent to these findings, the suit of the plaintiff was

dismissed. The aforesaid judgment and decree of the trial court was

challenged by the plaintiff-respondent before the lower appellate court. It may also be relevant to mention that during the course of

arguments before the lower appellate court vide order dated 25.9.2006, it

was observed that controversy in hand could be completely and effectively

decided if the exhaustive report regarding thumb impressions was obtained.

Thereafter, the matter was sent again to the trial court for comparison of

thumb impressions of the plaintiff-respondent in the present litigation and

upon the statement allegedly made by her in the previous litigation in which

judgment and decree dated 3.5.1989 was passed. The plaintiff-respondent

then examined Shri Shamsher Singh Malik. Opportunity was also afforded

to the appellants who examined their expert Shri N.K. Jain and thereafter on

the basis of the report of Shri Malik and on re-appraisal of the evidence on RSA No.864 of 2010 -: 4 :- record, passed the impugned judgment and decree dated 12.1.2010,

accepted the appeal with costs and set aside the judgment and decree of the

trial court and decreed the suit of the plaintiff-respondent for joint

possession of the suit land. Not satisfied with the judgment and decree of the lower

appellate court, defendants No.1 and 2 have filed the instant appeal

challenging the aforesaid decree. Learned counsel for the appellants has vehemently argued that

the opinion of the expert which is contrary to the opinion of the other expert

as also to the evidence on record cannot be made the basis for allowing the

appeal of the plaintiff-respondent and thus judgment of the lower appellate

court is perverse and is based upon misreading of the pleadings, evidence

and is liable to be set aside. On the basis of the aforesaid argument, learned

counsel for the appellants has submitted that the following substantial

questions of law arise in this appeal for consideration of this Court:- I have heard learned counsel for the appellants and perused the RSA No.864 of 2010 -: 5 :- impugned judgment and decree. The parties are not on issue that at one stage suit land was

owned by Kishna husband of the plaintiff-respondent and that after his

death the suit land was inherited by her. The sole question which was to be

decided by the courts below was whether the judgment and decree dated

3.5.1989 was actually suffered by the plaintiff-respondent in favour of the

appellants and respondent No.2. On perusal of the impugned decree Ex.D1, the lower appellate

court found that the plaint was filed on behalf of appellants and respondent

No.2 but it was signed only by appellant No.1, i.e., Hawa Singh and two

others i.e., defendants No.2 and 3 did not sign the same. It was averred in

the aforesaid plaint that due to dispute inter se between the respondents

No.1 to 3 and the plaintiff a family arrangement had been arrived at

declaring defendants No.1 to 3 as the owners of the suit property. However,

there was absolutely no date, month or year of the family settlement given in

the plaint. The written statement filed by the plaintiff-respondent in the

aforesaid case was placed on record as Ex.P3 which reveals that Kartari

Devi filed an admitted written statement. However, the grouse of the

plaintiff-respondent in the suit is that the fraud was committed upon her and

some impostor was produced before the trial court. To prove her assertion, she stepped into the witness box herself

and also examined Shri Shamsher Singh Malik, hand-writing and finger-

print expert who compared the thumb impression of Kartari Devi in the

earlier litigation, i.e., civil suit No.264 of 1989 with the thumb impression

of plaintiff-respondent in the present litigation, appearing on vakalatnama

and plaint etc. Shri Malik testified before the court on 9.12.2009 that he RSA No.864 of 2010 -: 6 :- compared the disputed thumb impression of plaintiff-respondent with the

standard thumb impressions and found that the disputed thumb impressions

were not affixed by the same lady who affixed her thumb impression, i.e.,

the standard thumb impression in the present case. The report was proved

on record as Ex.CW5/A in which he concluded that disputed thumb

impressions were not of the plaintiff-respondent. To rebut the aforesaid evidence, appellant examined Shri N.K.

Jain, document expert as DW6 on 19.12.2009 who deposed that the

disputed thumb impressions and the standard thumb impressions have been

of the same person. Faced with this situation, the lower appellate court

preferred the report of Shri Malik which was more logical and more

reasoned and ignored the report of Shri N.K. Jain which was not supported

by sound reasoning. While doing so, the lower appellate court also

observed that Shri N.K. Jain was not believed by the courts in many case.

This Court in Balwinder Kaur v. Bawa Singh and others , 2002(3) Civil

Court Cases 215 has held that where divergent opinion of the expert are

available on the record of the case then court can prefer one which is more

logical and well reasoned and ignore the other not supported by sound

reasoning and not appealing to it. Even in the case of Kumar Sales

Corporatin New Delhi v. Ajit Singh and others , 2000(3) Civil Court Cases

429 it has been laid down that where one of the experts had been held to be

not competent to speak about the handwriting or the finger prints by court to

an earlier, opinion of his report is liable to be rejected. Not only this, while

relying upon the report in favour of the plaintiff-respondent, the lower

appellate court has also taken into consideration the falsity of the pleas

taken by the appellants (that they have become owners in possession by way RSA No.864 of 2010 -: 7 :- of adverse possession) found the claim of the appellants as false. Even

otherwise, the question whether the impugned decree dated 3.5.1989 was

the result of fraud, is a question of fact which has been answered by the

lower appellate court on reappraisal of evidence. On the basis of the evidence on record, it cannot be held that

the findings of the lower appellate court are not supported by the evidence

on record or it was a case of no evidence and therefore, the findings are

perverse. Thus, I find no reason to interfere in the finding of fact

recorded by the lower appellate court. No substantial question of law arises in this appeal. Dismissed.