1. The present petition has been filed under Section 482 of the

Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short 'BNSS') by the

petitioner seeking grant of anticipatory bail in case bearing FIR No. 13 dated

19.10.2025 registered under Sections 316(2) and 318(4) of Bharatiya Nyaya

Sanhita, 2023 (for short 'BNS') and Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information

and Technology Act, 2008 at Police Station Cyber Crime, District Fazilka. 2. The aforementioned FIR was registered on the basis of a

complaint submitted by complainant Vinod Kumar Mehta, proprietor of

Murad Gas Station, Sulemanki Road, Fazilka, regarding freezing/holding of

 1 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 19-02-2026 00:24:26 ::: CRM-M-2222-2026 (O&M) -2-

Account No. 41463841511 maintained with State Bank of India, Branch DC

Complex, Fazilka. He alleged that the said account was used exclusively for

transactions relating to purchase of fuel from Indian Oil Corporation,

Bathinda and that 70-80% of payments from customers were received through

online modes such as Paytm, PhonePe, credit/debit cards, etc. A few days prior

to the complaint, when the complainant attempted to transfer money from the

said account to the oil company, the transaction failed. On approaching the

bank, he was informed that certain amounts had been put on hold by the Cyber

Cell, Fazilka. Upon inquiry and obtaining records, the complainant alleged

that entries shown as payments in the bank records did not actually reflect

credit of corresponding amounts in the account and that the account statement

did not tally with the amounts put on hold. He pleaded that the account was

not used for any illegal transactions. 3. As per the further allegations, during the course of investigation,

the complainant disclosed that one Abhishek Kumar was working as a

supervisor at his petrol pump and was handling financial transactions. In

February, 2024, Abhishek informed the complainant that the present petitioner

intended to purchase fuel in bulk. The petitioner, thereafter, frequently visited

the petrol pump with vehicles carrying drums, took diesel on several

occasions, sometimes on credit and made payments through card/UPI modes,

which were noted by the supervisor. Over the time, the complainant became

acquainted with the petitioner. In June, 2025, when the complainant again

faced difficulty in operating the account, he discovered alleged fraudulent

entries, leading to freezing/holding of payments. Bank records indicated that

 2 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 19-02-2026 00:24:27 ::: CRM-M-2222-2026 (O&M) -3-

payments purportedly made by the petitioner through various credit/debit

cards were shown as transactions but the corresponding amounts were put on

hold. After the account was frozen, the petitioner allegedly stopped visiting

the petrol pump. It was further alleged that the petitioner used scanner/card

devices to show payments to the pump's account, though such payments were

subsequently held. It was also revealed during investigation that the amounts

of money from multiple bank accounts, purportedly in the name of one Beeru,

were routed into the complainant's account. Beeru, when examined, disclosed

that in 2024, his brother Sohan Lal @ Sonu had informed him that the

petitioner required bank accounts to receive payments and avoid tax, in return

for which Beeru would be paid ₹3,000. Beeru allegedly provided four bank

accounts in his name and two accounts in the name of his wife, which were

operated by the petitioner, with mobile numbers registered under the

petitioner's control. It was alleged that these accounts were used for illegal

activities without the account holders' knowledge. On the basis of these

allegations, it was alleged that the petitioner and co-accused committed fraud

involving about 12 bank accounts, thereby causing wrongful loss to the

complainant and that the matter also involved aspects of money laundering.

Investigation proceedings are underway. Apprehending his arrest, the

petitioner moved an application for grant of pre-arrest bail before the learned

Additional Sessions Judge, Fazilka which was dismissed vide order dated

22.12.2025. 4. It is argued by learned counsel for the petitioner that he has been

falsely implicated in this case. There is nothing on record to show that the

 3 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 19-02-2026 00:24:27 ::: CRM-M-2222-2026 (O&M) -4-

transactions made by the petitioner have been put on hold by the cyber cell.

As per the allegations, total ₹12 Lakhs has been transferred in the account of

the complainant but there is nothing on record to show that those transactions

were done by the petitioner. In fact, when the account of the complainant-firm

was put on hold, the complainant has concocted a story levelling false

allegations against the petitioner. He is ready to join the investigation. His

custodial interrogation is not required. No recovery is to be effected from him.

Therefore, it is urged that the petition deserves to be allowed and the petitioner

deserves to be granted concession of anticipatory bail. 5. Status report has been filed by the respondent-State. Learned

State counsel has argued that there are serious and specific allegations against

the petitioner, which show a deliberate scheme in which multiple bank

accounts were procured and operated by the petitioner to create an illusion of

genuine digital payments, while the actual amounts were placed on hold,

causing financial loss to the complainant. Given the technical nature of the

offence and the involvement of electronic devices, bank accounts and digital

trails, the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is essential to uncover the

full extent of the fraud and identify other persons involved in subject crime.

No exceptional or extraordinary case has been made out in favour of the

petitioner for grant of anticipatory bail. It is, thus, argued that the petition is

liable to be dismissed. 6. This Court has heard the rival submissions. 7. The petitioner is alleged to have played an active and central role

in a cyber fraud wherein multiple bank accounts were procured and operated

 4 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 19-02-2026 00:24:27 ::: CRM-M-2222-2026 (O&M) -5-

to show fictitious digital payments for fuel purchases, resulting in wrongful

loss to the complainant. The allegations indicate a planned and technical

modus operandi involving electronic transactions and money routing through

several accounts. The investigation is at a nascent stage. Custodial

interrogation of the petitioner is required to trace the money trail and uncover

the larger conspiracy. No exceptional circumstances are made out for grant of

anticipatory bail. In case his custodial interrogation is denied to the

investigating agency, the same will leave many glaring loopholes and gaps

adversely affecting the investigation. The powers under Section 482 of BNSS

are extraordinary and the same are to be exercised sparingly in exceptional

circumstances. The judicial discretion conferred upon the Court has to be

properly exercised after application of mind as to the nature and gravity of the

accusation, possibility of applicant fleeing from justice and other factors to

decide whether it is a fit case for grant of anticipatory bail as such grant to

some extent interferes in the sphere of investigation of an offence. The Court

has also to see that an order of anticipatory bail should not operate as inroad

in the normal legal procedure of criminal cases by the trial Court. The Court

must be circumspect while exercising such power for grant of anticipatory bail

and it should not be granted as a matter of rule and has to be granted only

when the Court is convinced that exceptional circumstances exist to resort to

that extra ordinary remedy. In the present case, no such exceptional

circumstances warranting exercise of the powers for grant of anticipatory bail

by this Court are existing. Moreso, the crimes of this nature are on the rise and

have become a growing menace in today's digital age. Cyber criminals are

 5 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 19-02-2026 00:24:27 ::: CRM-M-2222-2026 (O&M) -6-

using sophisticated methods to target public persons and institutions. A

stringent approach for deterring offender is required. The gamut of above

discussed circumstances does not call for grant of benefit of pre-arrest bail to

the petitioner which even otherwise is an extraordinary remedy to be exercised

in exceptional circumstances which do not exist in this case. Accordingly, the

petition does not deserve to be allowed. Hence, the same is dismissed. 8. It is, however, clarified that the observations made hereinabove

shall not be construed as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. [MANISHA BATRA]
 JUDGE
17.02.2026
Waseem Ansari 1. Whether speaking/ reasoned : Yes / No 2. Whether reportable : Yes / No

 6 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 19-02-2026 00:24:27 :::