­ 1. By this order, I shall decide an application under Order 39 
 Rule 1 & 2 CPC filed by the plaintiff praying that the 
 defendant no­1 be restrained from selling, mortgaging, 
 leasing, transferring or disposing of the plots no. A­145 and 
 A­146, Bhalswa Dairy (Jahangir Puri), Delhi (hereinafter 
 referred to as 'suit plots') and from running any business 
 therefrom till the final disposal of the case. 2. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for declaration, 
 permanent and mandatory injunction averring that his 
 father Late Shri Bhim Singh S/o Shri Rumal Singh was 
 alloted the suit plots and physical possession of the plots was 
 handed over to him vide certificate no. 23 issued by MCD in 
 the year 1975. Shri Bhim Singh expired on 31.01.2001 leaving 
 behind the plaintiff as his sole legal heir and thus the 
 defendant no­4/MCD was under a legal obligation to 
 transfer the suit plots in his name. Since the original 
 documents regarding allotment of suit plots had been 
 misplaced, the plaintiff lodged a complaint with P.S­ Ashok 
 Vihar on 26.11.2009. He also informed the defendant 2 no­4/MCD on 21.12.2009 about the missing of the 
 documents. When the plaintiff visited the suit plots on 
 30.01.2010 for the first time, he found that the defendant 
 no­1 had illegally and unauthorizedly occupied the same 
 without any right, title or interest and had also obtained an 
 electricity connection in his name on the basis of forged and 
 false affidavit alleged to have been executed by Late Shri 
 Bhim Singh on 12.08.1985 and witnessed by the plaintiff 
 thereby transferring the suit plots in his favour. Upon 
 discovering the fraud committed by the defendant no­1, the 
 plaintiff requested the defendant no­1 to hand over the 
 vacant possession of the suit plots back to him but to no 
 avail. The plaintiff thus lodged a complaint with P.S Bhalswa 
 Dairy on 30.01.2010. Since no action was taken by police, the 
 plaintiff was constrained to file the present suit. 3. In his written statement, the defendant no­1 has averred that 
 he alongwith Late Shri Bhim Singh was doing dairy business 
 from the suit plots and that Late Shri Bhim Singh had 
 transferred his right, title and interest in the suit plots in his 
 favour vide affidavit dated 12.08.1985 for consideration and 
 had also handed over original documents of the suit plots to 
 him. It has been averred that the plaintiff was a witness to 
 the above transfer and the transfer was neither challenged 
 by Late Shri Bhim Singh duirng his life time nor by the 
 plaintiff after the death of Shri Bhim Singh in the year 2001. 
 According to the defendant no­1, he is in settled possession 3 of the suit plots since 1985 and therefore, the suit filed by the 
 plaintiff is barred by limitation. 4. I have heard the counsel for the parties and perused the 
 record. 5. Admittedly, as on date, the defendant no­1 is in possession 
 of the suit plots. While the plaintiff has averred that on 
 30.01.2010 when he visited the suit plots for the first time, he 
 found that the defendant no­1 had trespassed into the same, 
 the defendant no­1 has averred that vide affidavit dated 
 12.08.1985, Late Shri Bhim Singh had transferred the suit 
 plots in his favour and that he is in possession thereof since 
 1985. Though the genuineness of the affidavit dated 
 12.08.1985 as well as his signature on the same have been 
 disputed by the plaintiff but needless to say, the rival 
 contentions of the parties is a matter of evidence. However, 
 the defendant no­1 has placed on record the copy of show 
 cause notice received by his father on 30.09.2004 from 
 defendant no­4 MCD in respect of unauthorized occupation 
 of the suit plots which shows that he was in possession of the 
 suit plots even prior to the year 2004. The counsel for the 
 defendant no­4 has also placed on record the terms and 
 condition of allotment of Dairy Plots according to which the 
 plots could not have been sold, mortgaged or given on rent 
 by the allottees and in the event of violation of the said term, 
 the defendant no­4/MCD is entitled to take appropriate 
 action including taking back the possession of the allotted 4 land/plot. The counsel for the defendant no­4 has submitted 
 that since Late Shri Bhim Singh had transferred/parted with 
 possession of the suit plots during his lifetime in violation of 
 the terms and conditions of the allotment, neither the 
 plaintiff being the LR of Late Shri Bhim Singh nor the 
 defendant no­1 are entitled to the suit plots and that 
 appropriate action for eviction is being contemplated by the 
 defendant no­4/MCD against the defendant no­1, who is an 
 unauthorized occupant. Keeping in view the overall facts 
 and circumstances of the case, no prima facie case is found 
 in favour of the plaintiff. The application under Order 39 
 Rule 1 & 2 CPC filed by the plaintiff is accordingly dismissed. 
 Nothing stated herein above shall tantamount to expression 
 of any opinion on the merits of the case. Defendant no­3 has already been dropped from the array of defts. Vide separate order, application under Order 39 Rule 1 & 2 CPC filed by the plaintiff has been dismissed. Put up for admission/denial and framing of issues on 16.01.2012. JSCC/ASCJ(NW)
 Delhi:05.11.11