(Judgment of the Court was delivered by
P.KALAIYARASAN, J)

	This Original Side Appeal is directed against Judgment and Decree, dated 12.12.2008 of the learned single Judge in C.S.No.650 of 1999, decreeing the suit for recovery of money and also damages of Rs.1,00,000/-. 2. The plaint averments are as follows : 3. The averments of the written statement are as follows : 4. The learned single Judge framed necessary issues and after analysing both oral and documentary evidence of both sides, decreed the suit. Aggrieved against the Judgment and Decree, the first defendant Bank has come forward with this appeal. 5. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant contends that as far as irrevocable Letter of Credit is concerned, the Bank is bound to honour the payment; that the objections raised by the plaintiff as to the breach of terms of contract are untenable under the Uniform Practice for Documentary Credit, 1993 Revision No.500 (UCPDC); that the proforma invoice was not integral part of the Letter of Credit, as per the uniform practice adopted in International transactions and that the suit itself is barred by limitation. 6. The learned counsel appearing for the first respondent per contra contends that the purchaser having deviated from the terms of contract not only in date of shipment of the goods by manipulating documents but also the nature of goods and therefore, the first respondent / plaintiff cancelled the purchase order and informed the appellant / first defendant Bank about the cancellation with instruction not to honour payment under Letter of Credit. It is further contended that even as per the terms of UCPDC 500, if the documents appears not to be in compliance with the terms and conditions of the credit, the Bank may refuse to take up those documents. It is also contended that the learned single Judge, after elaborately analysing the evidence of both sides, has rightly decreed the suit and therefore, this appeal has to be dismissed. 7. There is no dispute that the plaintiff placed orders for the supply of numbering machines and spare parts with the foreign company, D3. The plaintiff made application for Letter of Credit with the first defendant Bank on 26.05.1999 indicating the nature of the goods as per proforma invoice. The last date of expiry for the purpose of shipment was also stipulated as 06.07.1999. Letter of Credit was opened on 27.05.1999 and the same was made subject to UCPDC, 1993 (Revision ICC No 500). 8. Before analysing the factual aspects, it would be useful to refer the citations pressed into service by both sides. 12. It is equally well settled in law that bank guarantee is an independent contract between bank and the beneficiary thereof. The bank is always obliged to honour its guarantee as long as it is an unconditional and irrevocable one. The dispute between the beneficiary and the party at whose instance the bank has given the guarantee is immaterial and of no consequence. In BSES Ltd., v. Fenner India Ltd , (2006) 2 SCC 728, this court held : (SCC pp. 733-34, para 10)
" 10. There are, however, two exceptions to this Rule. The first is when there is a clear fraud of which the Bank has notice and a fraud of the beneficiary from which it seeks to benefit. The fraud must be of an egregious nature as to vitiate the entire underlying transaction. The second exception to the general rule of non- intervention is when there are special equities in favour of injunction, such as when irretrievable injury or irretrievable injustice would occur if such an injunction were not granted. The general rule and its exceptions has been reiterated in so many judgments of this court, that in U.P.State Sugar Corpn. v. Sumac International Ltd. , (1997) 1 SCC 568 (hereinafter U.P. State Sugar Corpn) this Court, correctly declare that the law was settled." (ii) The second Judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court referred to was Federal Bank Ltd., v. V.M.Jog Engineering Ltd. , reported in (2001) 1 SCC 663, for the proposition that it is not permissible for the bank to refuse payment on the ground that the buyer is claiming that there is a breach of contract. In this Judgment, it has been further held as follows : (iii) The third citation referred to is National Bank Ltd., v. Ghanshyam Das Agarwal , reported in (2015) 4 SCC 228 is with respect to interdiction by Court of law. In this Judgment, it has been held thus : (iv) The learned counsel appearing for the first respondent cited BSES Ltd., (Now Reliance Energy Ltd.,) v. Fener India Ltd. , reported in (2006) 2 SCC 728, wherein, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as follows : 9. The learned counsel appearing for the first respondent/ plaintiff also cited the Division Bench ruling of the Delhi High Court in Roshan Lal Anand and another vs. Mercantile Bank Limited (DB) (Delhi ), reported in [1975] Vol.75 Company Cases 519, in which the Court has extracted the principle as found in "The Law of Bankers' Commercial Credits by Gutteridge, fourth edition, page 90, which is as follows:- 10. From the above decisions, it is clear that so long as the documents accompanying the Letter of Credit are presented, the Letter of Credit must be honoured on its terms. The exception to this, of course is a fraud of an egregious nature and such fraud should be by the beneficiaries. The duty of the banker is only to examine all documents with reasonable care to ascertain that they appear on their face to be in accordance with the terms and conditions of the credit. 11. Bearing the above propositions in mind, the factual aspect as to whether the Bank was satisfied on the face of the documents, that they are in confirmity with the list of documents mentioned in the Letter of Credit is to be looked into. If there is no discrepancy grave in nature, the Bank is bound to make payment as per the Letter of Credit. 12. The short point that is to be decided in this case is whether the appellant / first defendant Bank made the payment under Letter of Credit, in spite of the documents received being not in confirmity with the terms of the contract. For this, as already pointed out, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant contends that the proforma invoice does not form part of the Letter of Credit. Ex.P.7 is the Letter of Credit. Ex.P.4 is the proforma invoice. In Ex.P.7, the Letter of Credit, class 45A reads thus : 13. The Manager of the first defendant Bank who was looking after the credit department was examined as D.W.1. He has deposed during cross-examination with respect to proforma invoice as follows : 14. Therefore, from Ex.P.7 and the evidence of D.W.1, it is clear that proforma invoice, Ex.P.4 forms integral part of the Letter of Credit. As per Ex.P.7, clause 72 reads thus : As already pointed out, there is no dispute that the Letter of Credit is subject to UCPDC 1993 ( Revision ICC No.500). 15. Article 14 of UCPDC 1993 (Revision ICC No.500) is extracted below : 16. As already found, the proforma invoice, Ex.P.4 is part of the Letter of Credit, Ex.P.7. In the proforma invoice, in the description of goods, it has been specifically mentioned as "LEIBINGER - special rotary numbering machines, model 420 SF." Ex.P.23 is the letter written by the appellant / first defendant Bank to the plaintiff, dated 12.08.1999. In this, the discrepancy as to the description of the goods has not been denied and the appellant replied that proforma invoice was not an integral part of the Letter of Credit. Ex.P.16 is the letter of the appellant to the first respondent / plaintiff, dated 21.07.1999. The letter reads thus : 17. From the above documents, it is clear there are discrepancies as to the description of goods between the proforma invoice, which is integral part of Letter of Credit and the documents received. According to the first respondent / plaintiff, the above discrepancy in the description of goods is alone suffice to show that the documents received are not in confirmity with the terms of the contract, which is egregious nature. 18. Another breach canvassed on the side of the first respondent / plaintiff is that the shipment was not made on or before 06.07.1999 as stipulated under the Letter of Credit and the documents received by the Bank are manipulated so as to project as if the shipment was made in time and even as per those documents, the shipment took place only on 07.07.1999, i.e., beyond the last date specified in the Letter of Credit. Ex.P.12, dated 12.07.1999 is the cargo arrival notice. This indicates that Master Airwal Bill and House Airwal Bill, dated 07.07.1999 and the shipment dated is 11.07.1999. Ex.P.13 is the Airway Bill issued by the ALITALIA flight. In this flight date is given as 10.07.1999 and further, airport departure is noted as Frankfurt where as in the LOC, departure airport is stated as Stuttgart. 19. D.W.1 during his cross-examination admits that Ex.D.6 MSAS Airway Bill does not contains the seal. He also admits that in Ex.P.12, cargo arrival notice, against the column Master Airway Bill, the date mentioned is 07.07.1999 and against the column house Air Way Bill, the date mentioned as 07.07.1999. There is discrepancy even with respect to the weight of the goods between Airway Bill, Ex.P.13 and packing list, Ex.D.3. Cumulative perusal of the above facts will lead to infer that the purchaser made an attempt to project as if the shipment was made on 06.07.1999 itself, though the shipment was actually done at a latter date with many discrepancies even as to the description of goods. Therefore, the documents received are not in confirmity with the terms of the Letter of Credit. Even as per the terms of "UCP 500", cursory perusal of the documents appear on their face to be not in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Letter of Credit. It is also pertinent to note that though appellant Bank mentioned that Negotiating Bank rejected the objections of the plaintiff as untenable as per the terms of UCP 500, no correspondence between the Appellant Bank and Negotiating Bank in this regard has been marked. 20. The first respondent / plaintiff communicated to the appellant Bank by several letters under Ex.P.10, Ex.P.14, Ex.P.15, Ex.P.18, Ex.P.19, Ex.P.21, Ex.P.22 about the deviations and informing not to pay under the Letter of Credit. In spite of the specific intimations and notice about the filing of the suit, the appellant Bank made the payment under the Letter of Credit, disregarding the alleged fraud committed by the beneficiary. 21. Another contention raised by the appellant is with respect to limitation. According to the appellant, the first respondent / plaintiff originally filed the suit for declaration and permanent injunction and subsequently amended the plaint seeking relief of recovery of money and damages and therefore, on the date of amendment, the claim for recovery of money is not sustainable, as time barred. 22. Admittedly, the appellant Bank has been debiting the interest regularly from the account of the first respondent / plaintiff and if such debit is taken into account, it cannot be said that the claim is time barred one. Further, once amendment is ordered, it relates back to the date of the plaint. Therefore, the contention of the learned counsel appearing for the appellant with respect to the limitation is not sustainable. 23. The learned single Judge having considered that the appellant Bank effected the payment by debiting the open cash credit account of the plaintiff, in spite of several communications of the plaintiff not to make the payment, has rightly awarded damages. 24. For the aforesaid reasons, this Court is of the considered view that the learned single Judge has rightly decreed the suit considering the entire facts and circumstances of the case and this Court do not see any reason to interfere with the findings of the learned single Judge. In fine, this Original Side Appeal is dismissed with costs, confirming the Judgment and Decree of the learned single Judge, dated 12.12.2008 made in C.S.No.650 of 1999. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petition is also dismissed. (A.S.,J.) (P.K.,J)
					 01-09-2016

Index	: Yes 

tsvn

A.SELVAM,J. AND
P.KALAIYARASAN,J.