K.M. JOSEPH, J. 1. The appellant is the second accused in criminal

 complaint filed by the first respondent (hereinafter

 referred to as ‘complainant’, for short). The appellant

 filed a Petition under Section 482 The Code of Criminal

 Procedure , 1973 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Cr.PC ’, for short), seeking to quash the order passed Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by GULSHAN KUMAR ARORA Date: 2019.12.10 17:15:00 IST by the Magistrate summoning the appellant pursuant to
Reason: 1 2. The complainant is a public limited company engaged

in the business of manufacturing and selling asbestos

cement sheets with seven manufacturing plants and more

than twenty-five marketing offices all over India. It

is further, inter alia, stated that the product is

manufactured in all its plants in an environment

friendly manner. The first accused is alleged to be the

Coordinator of Ban Asbestos India, a group hosted by

the appellant. Articles are regularly published in the

said group. On 21.11.2008, an article was published. It

was captioned “Poisoning the system: Hindustan Times”.

The complaint targeted renowned politicians of the

country who were named and who had nothing to do with

the ownership and management of the company.

Complainant pleads shock on seeing the article dated 2 31.07.2008 captioned “Visaka Asbestos Industries making

gains”. It is stated that asbestos cement sheets have

been manufactured for more than 70 years in India.

First accused singled out the complainant though there

are other groups manufacturing asbestos cement

products. The relevant part, which is pertinent to the

appellant is contained in paragraph-11: “11. Complainant most humbly and
 respectfully submits that the Accused
 No.1’s statement in the articles in
 the above mentioned group hosted by
 the Accused No.2 is filled with
 hatred towards Complainant which is
 defamatory in nature, and which a
 person of ordinary intelligence in
 society would believe the said
 statements. Indeed the said statement
 injured the reputation of
 Complainant. The act of the accused
 in posting certain defamatory
 articles in the cyber space, which is
 visited by innumerable internet
 surfers which has vide usage all over
 the world in who’s mind the
 complainant company is being caused
 with such defamatory false
 statements. The service provider like
 Accused No.2 has made it easier than
 ever before to disseminate defamatory
 statements to the world wide audience
 without taking any due care and 3 diligence to prevent it. The Accused
 No.2 has abused the services provided
 by it, because both the articles in
 the group hosted by it was targeted
 towards a particular company which is
 well within the knowledge of the
 Accused No.2.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 3. Cause of action is mentioned at paragraph-15 and it

reads as follows: 4. Jurisdiction is indicated in paragraph-16 of the

complaint and it read as follows: 5. Deputy Manager (Legal) of the complainant made his

statement. Thereafter, the appellant came to be

summoned. The summoning order read as follows: Magistrate” 6. It is the said order which came to be challenged

before the High Court. 7. By the impugned judgment, the High Court has

dismissed the petition. FINDINGS OF THE HIGH COURT 8. Section 79 of The Information Technology Act, 2000

(hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act’, for short),

which appears to have been relied on by the appellant

was found to not exempt a network service provider from

liability much less criminal liability for the offences 6 under other laws or, more particularly, under the IPC .

It was further found that the above provision exempted

Network Service Provider from liability only on proving

that the offence or contravention was committed without

its knowledge or that he had exercised all due

diligence to prevent the commission of such offence or

contravention. Proof, in that regard, can be let in by

leading evidence by the accused. This is a question of

fact which the High Court may not go into in the

petition under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.. The Court

later notices the amended Section 79 of the Act which

came into being with effect from 27.10.2009. It was

noted that it is only under the said amendment that a

non obstante clause was incorporated keeping the

application of other laws outside the purview in a fact

situation covered by the said provision. Under the

amended Section 79 , in case the intermediary enters

into any conspiracy, the exemption under Section 79 of

the Act could not be claimed. So also, the intermediary

could not claim exemption in case he fails to 7 expeditiously remove or disable access to the

objectionable material or unlawful activity, even after

receiving actual knowledge thereof. 9. The appellant, it was found, did not move its

little finger to block the material or to stop

dissemination of the unlawful and objectionable

material in spite of the complainant issuing notice

about the dissemination of defamatory material and

unlawful activity on the part of the first accused.

Therefore, it was found that the appellant could not

claim any exemption under Section 79 of the Act, prior

to its substitution, or Section 79 of the Act, after

its substitution, which took effect from 27.10.2009. 10. The complaint was instituted in January, 2009. It

related to an offence which was being perpetuated from

31.07.2008 onwards, i.e., since long before prior to

the amendment of the said provision. It was finally

found that there was no exemption of any criminal law

in respect of a company which is a juristic person and

which has no body that can be damned or condemned, in 8 case found guilty. Appellant can be awarded with

appropriate punishment though not corporal punishment.

Finding no merit, the petition was dismissed. 11. We heard Shri Sajan Poovayya, learned senior

counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, Shri

Sridhar Potaraju the learned Counsel for the

complainant/first respondent-M/s. Visakha Industries

and Ms. Madhavi Divan, learned Additional Solicitor

General appearing on behalf of the respondents. 12. Shri Sajan Poovayya would contend that services on

google groups is not provided by the appellant. In

other words, the basis of the complainant that

appellant is the intermediary, is completely erroneous.

The legal notice sent by the complainant, did not make

reference to any specific URL. The expansion of URL is

Unique Reference Locator which is the address of the

content on web to identify or locate the objectionable

post. Therefore, the notice was invalid. The appellant,

however, as a gesture, made over the said notice dated

09.12.2008 to its parent entity, i.e., Google Inc. 9 presently Google LLC. It is Google LLC which owns the

Google Group platforms. Google LLC replied to the legal

notice and requested the complainant to provide

specific URLs. It is without responding to the same

that the complaint came to be filed. It is contended

that the complaint proceeds on a mistaken premise that

the appellant hosts and provides services on Google

Groups. A further fallacious basis is that the

intermediary and hosting service provider is expected

to monitor and pre-censor publication of content on its

platform. Error is alleged to underlie the assumption

that hosting of services involves the fact that the

intermediary host has knowledge of the content posted

on a hosting platform. An independent publication by an

author of any content by itself again demonstrates

absence of any connivance between the author and the

intermediary host. There is no case for the complainant

that the appellant is the author or publisher of the

allegedly defamatory articles. On the other hand, the 10 complaint itself proceeds on the basis that it is the

first accused who is the author of the articles. 13. The appellant lay store by the parallel civil

proceedings between the parties. Following the legal

notice issue to the appellant and to Google LLC on

21.01.2009, a civil suit was instituted against the

first accused, Google LLC and the appellant. 14. The suit filed by the complainant came to be

dismissed by judgment dated 17.02.2014. The complainant

succeeded in the first appeal and the court decreed the

suit on 29.01.2016. The appellants preferred a second

appeal. The appeal came to be allowed by the High Court

on 18.01.2016 by which the suit came to be dismissed

against the appellant which was the second defendant.

It is pointed out that the appellant has filed a review

confined in nature against the same. The complainant

has also filed a review. 15. Google LLC is a company incorporated under the laws

of United States of America. Google LLC owns and 11 operates the Google Groups Platforms. The appellant is

the subsidiary of the Google LLC Group. Appellant has

its own separate legal identity. The High Court has

ignored that control over the Google Group platform was

of Google LLC. 16. The learned senior counsel for the appellant drew

our attention to the primary terms upon which service

is rendered by Google LLC. An agreement is contemplated

between a user and Google LLC. Appellant is a company

registered under the Indian Companies Act having its

office at Bangalore. Appellant is appointed as a non-

exclusive reseller of Google LLC Ads program in India

on a principal to principal basis. The appellant is

engaged in business development and promotional

activity for certain limited products and does not play

any role in providing or administering services as

regards Google Groups. It is contended that appellant

is not an agent of Google LLC and it enjoys autonomy in

its functions. 12 17. The terms of service regarding Google Groups

clearly indicate that the services are provided by

Google LLC and not by the appellant. It is contended

that publicly available documents of an unimpeachable

character or any incontrovertible evidence may be

considered by the High Court in deciding a matter under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.. The Google Groups terms of

service is pressed as one such document. Reliance is

placed on decisions of this Court including Rajiv

Thapar and others v. Madan Lal Kapoor1 and HMT Watches

Limited v. M.A. Abida and another2. Such judicial notice

has been taken in the civil proceedings, it is pointed

out. 18. Next, it contended that the ingredients of the

offence of defamation under Section 499 of the IPC have

not been made out. The first ingredient being

publication of an imputation has not been satisfied qua

the appellant but only as against the first accused. An

intermediary is neither a publisher of third-party 1 (2013) 3 SCC 330 2 (2015) 11 SCC 776 13 content nor does it have knowledge of any content

unless it is notified through an order of an

appropriate court or a Government agency. No provision

of the Act has been invoked. Relying on Sharat Babu

Digumarti v. Government (NCT of Delhi )3 and Shreya

Singhal v. Union of India4 , it is sought to be contended

that since no provisions of the Act are invoked, the

complaint is vitiated. It is still further contended

that there is no complaint against the actual

intermediary, viz., Google LLC. It is further contended

that in the context of digital platform, where millions

of posts are made, no editorial control of any sort is

exercised by an intermediary in the publication of any

content on such platforms. 19. It is contended that mere hosting of content would

be insufficient to attribute knowledge, and if does not

amount to publication of content. Appellant cannot be

attributed with actual knowledge to ascribe a mental

element. The role is passive. The author originates the 3 (2017) 2 SCC 18 4 (2015) 5 SCC 1 14 material and the author is the originator and not the

intermediary. The person who accesses or reads the

content again is not an intermediary but the addressee.

Unless the content is brought to the actual knowledge

of the intermediary, taking down the material, cannot

be imposed upon the intermediary. Actual knowledge must

be that which is conveyed through a court order or

through an appropriate Government agency. The

intermediary cannot become a private censor or arbiter

of content. The appellant seeks to emphasise upon the

adverse impact it would have on freedom of Online

Speech and Expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(A) of the Constitution of India. 20. The appellant also makes the point that the

mandatory inquiry under Section 202 of the Cr.PC has

not been made. The appellant stood arrayed as an

accused denoting its office at Hyderabad, Bengaluru and

Gurugram whereas the ACJM, whose territorial

jurisdiction is limited to Secunderabad, is the court

where the complaint was filed. Section 202 of the 15 Cr.PC , has been observed, in its breach by the

Magistrate. The decision in Abhijit Pawar v. Hemant

Madhukar Nimbalkar and another5, has been enlisted in

support in this regard. 21. A subsidiary does not become liable for the acts of

its parent company, is another contention. It is also

contended that a person cannot be compelled to perform

an impossible act. CONTENTIONS OF THE COMPLAINANT 22. It is not open to the appellants to have invoked

powers under Section 482 of the Cr.PC. The matter

involves investigation of allegations relating to

facts. It is pointed out as to whether the appellant is

hosting the google group wherein the first accused has

published defamatory articles is a question of fact.

The question as to whether the appellant is or not an

intermediary, is a question of fact. As to whether the

appellant and Google LLC are managed by different

entities or the same entity, is another question of 5 (2017) 3 SCC 528 16 fact. The respondent would dispute the contention that

the documents produced by the appellant are of an

unimpeachable character. The documents are sought to be

relied on without complying with the mandate of Section

65B of The Indian Evidence Act, 1872. Reliance in this

regard Anvar P.V. v. P.K. Basheer and others6. 23. It is further submitted that the Magistrate has a

judicial discretion upon examining the complainant to

proceed without recourse to the procedure under Section

202 of Cr.PC. There is no pleading of any prejudice by

the appellant nor proof adduced about the same.

Regarding this, reliance is placed on judgment of this

Court in Shivjee Singh v. Nagendra Tiwari and others7. 24. Google hosts the Google Groups. The only question

of fact is whether the appellant is in control of the

said Group or it is, as claimed, controlled by its

Parent Company. Hence, the issue is limited as to the

role of appellant and its participation in the business

of providing Google Groups platform and raising 6 (2014) 10 SCC 473 7 (2010) 7 SCC 578 17 revenues for the same through advertisements, etc.

apart from marketing it. The appellant, it is

contended, cannot be allowed to disown its role in

Google Groups. The appellant has withheld the actual

nature of the activities it is carrying on in India. A

party must come to court with clean hands. The

Memorandum of Association itself, prima facie, shows

that their main objects include providing internet

related projects and/or services and applications.

There is a common economic entity wherein the users are

provided digital space purportedly free but are made to

part with their personal data as consideration. The

said data is used for generating advertisement revenues

which are targeted as user profile and geographical

location. 25. The role of appellant is a question of fact. Once

it is put on notice, Google cannot be heard to say that

it is not aware of the content. If it chooses to

perpetuate the content as publisher of defamatory

content, consequences under law must follow. Appellant 18 plays a very active role in controlling advertisement.

Google is an active publisher as it provides various

tools to users for enabling them to create content

online. STAND OF THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 26. Internet is an important means of expression and

communication. Internet offers information on a

mindboggling variety of subjects. Right to Information

is part of Article 19(1)(A) of the Constitution of

India. Internet has come to be recognised as a

genuinely democratic medium. Communication takes place

at virtually no cost. Internet also is a market place

for commodities and services. The United Nations Human

Rights Council passed a non-binding Resolution in June,

2016 recognizing internet as a basic Human Right. It is

pointed out that Finland became the first country in

2010 which made broadband a legal right for every

citizen. 19 27. There is distinction between publication on the

internet and publication in the print media. Reference

was made to the judgment of this Court in Shreya

Singhal v. Union of India8 , which has recognised this

distinction. It is contended that there are infinite

challenges that internet poses. The high speed and the

high volumes render pre-censorship highly difficult.

There is automatic uploading without any application of

mind on the part of the website/platform. 28. In the year 2015, there were 3.5 billion people in

the world who accessed the internet. On Facebook, there

were three million photographs updated per day. In

every minute, 510 comments and 293000 statuses are

posted. In 2013, there were 200 billion tweets on

Twitter. In the traditional television programmes,

films and newspapers, the content is pushed to the

viewer or the reader. The choice of the reader or the

viewer is limited to viewing the content or reading the

same. Internet, it is pointed out, works on the pull

principle where it is the viewer who has complete 8 (2015) 5 SCC 1 20 control and he exercises his choice as to what content

he would wish to view or read. 29. The internet uses public spectrum and airwaves to

transmit signal. In Secretary, Ministry of Information

and Broadcasting, Government of India and others v.

Cricket Association of Bengal and others9, this Court

took the view that the right of the listeners and the

viewers and not the broadcasters, is paramount.

Airwaves and frequencies are public property. Monopoly

by either Government or anyone else would not square

with the free speech interest of citizens. 30. The distinction between the pre-amendment and the

after-amendment versions of Section 79 of the Act is

highlighted. It is contended that the very definition

of intermediary would reveal that it is not an editor

or a publisher as understood in the context of the

print media. What flows from the definition points to

the role being that of a facilitator or conduit rather

than a selector or editor of information. Light is

sought to be sourced from the views of this Court in 9 (1995) 2 SCC 161 21 the decision in Gambhirsinh R. Dekare v. Falgunbhai

Chimabhai Patel and another10: 31. The aforesaid discussion was in the context of an

editor under the Press and Registration of Books Act,

1867 . 32. Still further, reference is made about the role

attributable to the service provider of internet

platforms and that of an originator in the judgment of

this Court in Sharat Babu Digumarti v. Government

N.C.T. of Delhi11 in Criminal Appeal No. 1222 of 2016. 11 (2017) 2 SCC 18 23 33. Internet is a free platform. This is on account of

free open democratic nature of the internet. 34. It is contended that there will be a chilling

effect on free speech if one were to allow

intermediaries to intervene merely on complaints by

individuals about being defamed or being at the

receiving end of the unfair reporting. If permitted,

such intervention would result in privatisation of

censorship which would be hazardous for free expression

of ideas. 35. Regarding the extent of the liability of an

intermediary, it is contended that after the amendment

in 2008, intermediary’s role as a mere facilitator of

exchanging information or sales, is recognised.

According to Government of India, the pre-amendment

situation is exemplified by the subject matter of the

decision of the Delhi High Court in Avnish Bajaj v.

State (N.C.T. of Delhi )12. 12 116 (2005) DLT 427 24 36. Anybody aggrieved by the posting of any defamatory

matter on the internet can make a takedown reference

under Section 79 of the Act. Section 69A of the Act is

relied on. Section 69A gives power to the Central

Government to block access by giving directions to any

intermediary on being satisfied of there being need to

do so in the interest of sovereignty among other

factors. The matter is governed under the Information

Technology (Procedures and Safeguards for Blocking for

Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009. 37. As far as the stand of the Union regarding the

liability of the subsidiary of a foreign intermediary

is concerned, reliance is placed on the decision of the

Court of Justice of the European Union (ECJ). 38. The case of In Google Spain SL, Google Inc. v.

Agencia Espanola de Proteccion de Datos (AEPD), Mario

Costeja Gonzalez13, Case C-131/12, Court of Justice of

European Union (ECJ), is important in this regard. In

Google Spain, the ECJ recognized an individual’s right

to be forgotten, enabling a person to obtain removal of 13 ECLI:EU:C:2014:317 25 search results which violated his/her privacy

 interests. The case has geographical implications: 39. The ECJ therefore considered that the activities of

the search engine operator and those of its

establishment are “inextricably linked”, as Google’s

search engine service is closely related to the

activity of selling advertisement space (paragraph 56).

Specifically, the Court reasoned that, “the activities

relating to the advertising space constitute the means

of rendering the search engine at issue economically

profitable and engine is, at the same time, the means

enabling those activities to be performed.”(paragraph 56). The Court in paragraphs 53 and 54 noted that, the

EU’s Data Protection Directive 95/46 “sought to prevent

individuals from being deprived of the protection

guaranteed by the directive and that protection from

being circumvented, by prescribing a particularly broad

territorial scope.” Based on these observations, the 27 ECJ concluded that the processing relating to the

search engine service should be viewed as taking place

“in the context of the activities of an establishment”

located on EU territory (see paragraphs 53, 54). This

case recognizes that the domestic subsidiary

responsible for advertising and attracting a user base

could be held liable for the acts of the parent. 40. Our attention is also drawn to the decision in

Richardson v. Facebook14. It is contended that however

given that the foreign body may not have Indian

presence, the corporate veil may be lifted to fix

liability on the subsidiary, if it is established that

the latter is an alter ego of the foreign company and

support is sought to be drawn from the judgments of

this Court in New Horizons Limited and another v. Union

of India and others15 and State of U.P. and others v.

Renusagar Power Company and others16. 14 (2015) EWHC 3154 (QB) 15 (1995) 1 SCC 478 16 (1988) 4 SCC 59 28 CONTOURS OF THE JURISDICTION OF THE HIGH COURT UNDER
SECTION 482 OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CODE , 1973 41. The contours of the jurisdiction of the High Court

under Section 482 is no longer res integra. We would

think that it is sufficient if we only advert to the

judgment of this Court in State of Haryana and others

v. Bhajan Lal and others17. This Court held as follows: “102. In the backdrop of the
 interpretation of the various relevant
 provisions of the Code under Chapter XIV
 and of the principles of law enunciated by
 this Court in a series of decisions
 relating to the exercise of the
 extraordinary power under Article 226 or
 the inherent powers under Section 482 of
 the Code which we have extracted and
 reproduced above, we give the following
 categories of cases by way of illustration
 wherein such power could be exercised
 either to prevent abuse of the process of
 any court or otherwise to secure the ends
 of justice, though it may not be possible
 to lay down any precise, clearly defined
 and sufficiently channelised and
 inflexible guidelines or rigid formulae
 and to give an exhaustive list of myriad
 kinds of cases wherein such power should
 be exercised. 17 (1992) Supp (1) SCC 335 29 (1) Where the allegations made in the
 first information report or the
 complaint, even if they are taken
 at their face value and accepted
 in their entirety do not prima
 facie constitute any offence or
 make out a case against the
 accused. (2) Where the allegations in the
 first information report and
 other materials, if any,
 accompanying the FIR do not
 disclose a cognizable offence,
 justifying an investigation by
 police officers under Section
 156(1) of the Code except under
 an order of a Magistrate within
 the purview of Section 155(2) of
 the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted
 allegations made in the FIR or
 complaint and the evidence
 collected in support of the same
 do not disclose the commission of
 any offence and make out a case
 against the accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR
 do not constitute a cognizable
 offence but constitute only a
 non-cognizable offence, no
 investigation is permitted by a
 police officer without an order
 of a Magistrate as contemplated
 under Section 155(2) of the Code. 30 (5) Where the allegations made in the
 FIR or complaint are so absurd
 and inherently improbable on the
 basis of which no prudent person
 can ever reach a just conclusion
 that there is sufficient ground
 for proceeding against the
 accused. (6) Where there is an express legal
 bar engrafted in any of the
 provisions of the Code or the
 concerned Act (under which a
 criminal proceeding is
 instituted) to the institution
 and continuance of the
 proceedings and/or where there is
 a specific provision in the Code
 or the concerned Act, providing
 efficacious redress for the
 grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is
 manifestly attended with mala
 fide and/or where the proceeding
 is maliciously instituted with an
 ulterior motive for wreaking
 vengeance on the accused and with
 a view to spite him due to
 private and personal grudge. 103. We also give a note of caution
to the effect that the power of quashing a
criminal proceeding should be exercised
very sparingly and with circumspection and
that too in the rarest of rare cases; that
the court will not be justified in 31 embarking upon an enquiry as to the
 reliability or genuineness or otherwise of
 the allegations made in the FIR or the
 complaint and that the extraordinary or
 inherent powers do not confer an arbitrary
 jurisdiction on the court to act according
 to its whim or caprice.” 42. As to what is the scope of the expression “rarest

of rare cases” indicated in paragraph 103, we may only

refer to the judgment of this Court in Jeffrey J.

Diermeier and another v. State of West Bengal and

another18 wherein the law laid down by a Bench of three

Judges in Som Mittal v. Govt. of Karnataka19 has been

referred to: 43. Applying the principles, the question would be

whether the appellant had made out a case for granting

relief in proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.

As far as the offence of defamation is concerned, even

though the offence under Section 500 is non-cognizable

under the First Schedule to the Cr.PC , the matter would 33 not be governed by paragraph 2 of the judgment of this

Court in Bhajan Lal (supra) as the it

is the case of a complaint and not of a Police Report. Equally, paragraph 4 of Bhajan Lal (supra) is for the same reason inapplicable. We do not

think that it is a case where we could hold that

proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide and/or

where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an

ulterior motive for wrecking vengeance on the appellant

with a view to spite him due to private and personal

grudge. 44. Next, we must consider whether there is any express

legal bar engrafted in any provisions of the Code or

the Act governing the field to the institution and

continuance of the proceedings. It is here that

provisions of Section 79 of Information Technology Act,

2000 would assume significance. 45. Section 79 of the Information Technology Act, as it

was enacted originally, read as follows: 46. The said provision was substituted by the Information Technology (Amendment) Act of 2008. It came

into force on 27.10.2009. It reads as follows: “79 Exemption from liability of
 intermediary in certain cases: (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in
 any law for the time being in force
 but subject to the provisions of sub- 35 sections (2) and (3), an intermediary
 shall not be liable for any third
 party information, data, or
 communication link hosted by him. (2) The provisions of sub-section (1)
 shall apply if- (a) the function of the intermediary
 is limited to providing access to
 a communication system over which
 information made available by
 third parties is transmitted or
 temporarily stored; or (b) the intermediary does not- (i) initiate the transmission, (ii) select the receiver of the
 transmission, and (iii) select or modify the
 information contained in the
 transmission (c) the intermediary observes due
 diligence while discharging his
 duties under this Act and also
 observes such other guidelines as
 the Central Government may
 prescribe in this behalf
 (Inserted Vide ITAA 2008)

(3) The provisions of sub-section (1)
shall not apply if- (a) the intermediary has conspired or
 abetted or aided or induced
 whether by threats or promise or
 otherwise in the commission of
 the unlawful act (ITAA 2008) (b) upon receiving actual knowledge,
 or on being notified by the
 appropriate Government or its
 agency that any information, data
 or communication link residing in 36 or connected to a computer
 resource controlled by the
 intermediary is being used to
 commit the unlawful act, the
 intermediary fails to
 expeditiously remove or disable
 access to that material on that
 resource without vitiating the
 evidence in any manner. Explanation:- For the purpose of
 this section, the expression "third
 party information" means any
 information dealt with by an
 intermediary in his capacity as an
 intermediary.” 47. The High Court has contrasted the earlier avtar of Section 79 with the newly inserted provisions and held

as follows: 48. The discussion of the High Court regarding Section

79 reveals the following findings: b. Intermediary under the extant provisions of Section

 79 cannot seek refuge in Section 79 if it failed to

 expeditiously remove or disable access to the

 objectionable material or unlawful activity even

 after receiving actual knowledge thereof.

c. In the case, it is found that in spite of the first

 respondent complaint issuing notice about

 dissemination of defamatory information on the part

 of A1-accused no.1-appellant did not move its little

 finger to block the material or to stop dissemination

 of unlawful and objectionable material. This conduct 38 of the appellant disentitles it from claiming

 protection either under the provisions of the

 unamended Section 79 or under Section 79 after

 substitution. The offence in this case was

 perpetuated from 31.07.2008 onwards since long prior

 to the substitution. 49. At this juncture, it is apposite that we took a

deeper look at what the Government of India has to say

about Section 79 . 50. Section 79 is a safe harbour provision. Internet

intermediaries give access to host, disseminate and

index content, products and services originated by

third parties on the internet. There are different

kinds of intermediaries. They include: ii. Data Processing and Web Hosting Providers.

 Examples include Godaddy and Bigrock; 39 iii. Internet Search Engines and Portals like

 Google, Yahoo and Binge; iv. E-mail hosts like gmail (Google) and

 yahoomail; v. Then there are instant messaging platforms

 such as Whatsapp, Facebook Messenger,

 Skype, etc.; vi. E-commerce intermediaries where the

 platforms do not take title to the goods

 being sold like Amazon India, Flipkart,

 etc.; vii. Internet Payment Systems and Mobile

 Walleters like Paytm, etc.; viii. There are also participative internet

 platforms. 51. The 2008 amendment introduced Chapter XII to the

Information Technology Act . The amendment was in the 40 background of the decision of the Delhi High Court in

Avinash Bajaj v. State (NCT of Delhi)20. 52. Intermediaries stand on a different footing being

only facilitators of exchanges of information or sales.

Prior to the amendment, the exemption provision under Section 79 did not exist and, therefore, an

intermediary would have been liable for any third-party

information or data made available by him as seen in

the Bazeed (supra). After the amendment, intermediary

is not liable under any Act if it satisfied certain

requirements as detailed in Section 79 . 53. After referring to the decision in Shreya

Singhal (supra), the Government of India has understood

the position at law to be that Section 79 stands read

down to mean that an intermediary would need to

takedown information only upon receiving actual

knowledge that a court order has been passed to remove

or disable certain material and not otherwise. The

further stand of the Government of India is thus there

is a recognition that intermediaries and neutral 20 116/2005 DLT 427 41 platforms are only facilitating information. It is

further pointed out on behalf of the Government of

India that the interpretation placed by this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra) was not available to the High

Court when it passed the impugned order in this case.

Shreya Singhal makes it clear that an intermediary’s

liability will not arise unless it failed to take down

material upon there being actual knowledge by court

order or government communication. This safeguard has

been put in place to avoid chilling affect on free

speech. The intermediaries would, if a contrary view is

taken, stand elevated to the status of super censors

and denude the internet of it unique feature of a

democratic medium for all to publish, access and read

any and all kinds of information. 54. Owing to the special unique characteristic of the

internet, intermediaries are not in a position to know

about a content which is posted on its platforms by

itself and, therefore, the strict liability principle

cannot be made applicable to internet intermediaries. 42 It is the specific stand of the Government of India

that even pre-amendment, an intermediary could not know

the contents of what is posted on its website and,

therefore, be held liable in the absence of a takedown

order by a court or Governmental Agency. 55. The Government of India, it is also noticed, has

perceived a distinction between blocking under Section

69A of the Information Technology Act and takedown

under Section 79 of the Information Technology Act. Section 69A reads as follows: sections (2) for reasons to be recorded in
 writing, by order direct any agency of the
 Government or intermediary to block access 43 by the public or cause to be blocked for
 access by public any information
 generated, transmitted, received, stored
 or hosted in any computer resource. (2) The procedure and safeguards subject
 to which such blocking for access by the
 public may be carried out shall be such as
 may be prescribed. 3) The intermediary who fails to comply
 with the direction issued under sub- section (1) shall be punished with an
 imprisonment for a term which may extend
 to seven years and also be liable to
 fine.” 56. It is pointed out that the grounds under which

Government issues directions for blocking information

are limited and confined to matters relating to

national security, public order and the like. The power

does not expand to blocking any case of defamation,

contempt of court, etc. A blocking order under Section

69A cannot be passed for criminal defamation as it does

not fall under the scope of Section 69A . Therefore, if

a party is aggrieved by posting of a defamatory content

on website, he must seek recourse to the court process

for adjudication. The matter can be directed to be 44 removed or access disabled under Section 79(3) of the

Information Technology Act. Since, the Court process

can be long drawn, the aggrieved party may seek an

interim order before a competent court. 57. In fact, the learned Senior Counsel for the

appellant did not, as such, canvass the matter on the

basis of Section 79 before it was substituted. However,

we deem it proper to delineate its scope in view of the

fact that if there is an express legal bar to attach

criminal liability upon the appellant under the Act, it

would become a matter of jurisdiction. It is also the

stand taken by the Government of India that there be no

liability on the intermediary under Section 79 of the

Act prior to the substitution as we have set out herein

before. 58. It must be noted that stand of the appellant

primarily has been that the appellant is not the

intermediary in this case and the intermediary in this

case is Google LLC. The arguments have been otherwise

addressed by the appellant on the basis though that 45 even proceeding on the basis that the appellant is

treated as an intermediary, the complaint against the

appellant, cannot be allowed to proceed. 59. On the question as to whether Section 79 , as it

stood prior to the substitution, would provide a shield

to an intermediary, we would enter the following

findings. 60. In our view, Section 79 , before its substitution,

exempted the Network Service Provider, which is defined

as an intermediary, from liability under the Act, Rules

or Regulations made thereunder in regard to any third-

party information or data made available by him

provided the Service Provider: 61. This provision may be contrasted with the later

avtar of Section 79 of the Act consequent upon 46 substitution with effect from 27.10.2009. Sub-Section

(1) of Section 79 , in unambiguous words, declares by

way of a non-obstante clause that in spite of anything

contained in any law which is in force, though subject

to the provisions of sub-Sections (2) and (3), an

intermediary would not be liable for any third-party

information, data or communication link hosted by him.

The conditions are set out in sub-Section (2). 62. As we have noticed, the scope of Section 79 , before

its substitution, was confined to confer immunity from

liability in regard to an offence under the Act or the

Rules or Regulations qua third-party action or data

made available. In this regard, it must be noticed that Chapter XI of the Act deals with the offences. Sections

65 to 67B deals with various offences under the Act.

This is besides Sections 71 , 72A , 73 and 74 of the Act. Section 79 falls under Chapter XII. Therefore, the

scheme of the Act would also indicate that Section 79 ,

as it was prior to the substitution, was indeed 47 confined to the liability of the Network Service

Provider arising out of the provisions of the Act

besides, no doubt, Rules and Regulations, and it was

not, in short, a bar to the complaint under Section

500 of the IPC being launched or prosecuted. 63. The complaint relates, in short, to a period, much

prior to the substitution of Section 79 of the Act,

which ultimately took place only with effect from

27.10.2009. The court, in Shreya Singhal (supra), was

not considering the provisions of Section 79 as it

stood before the substitution on 27.10.2009 which is

what the High Court has focussed on to find that it was

not open to the appellant to seek shelter under Section 79. No doubt, there are certain observations which have

been made by the High Court regarding notice to the

petitioner, which we will dwell upon. 64. We may, in fact, notice another aspect of the

matter. Even, proceeding on the basis that Section 79 should engage us any further, we cannot be oblivious to

an integral feature of Section 79 prior to its 48 substitution. As we have noted, the Law Giver has given

protection from liability not unconditionally. It is

for the Service Provider to prove that the offence or

contravention was committed without his knowledge. He

is also to prove that he has exercised all due

diligence to prevent the commission of such offence or

contravention. We will, for the purpose of argument,

assume that the offence or contravention could relate

to even Section 500 of the IPC. Even then, for the

protection given by the provisions, as it stood at the

time when the offence alleged against the appellant was

allegedly committed by it, to apply, it would become

incumbent upon the appellant to prove that the offence

or the contravention was committed without its

knowledge and that it had taken all due diligence to

prevent the commission of such offence or

contravention. It may be at once noticed that in

reality the scope of Section 79 of the Act, prior to

the substitution, was limited to granting exemption to

the Network Service Provider from any liability under 49 the Act, Rules or Regulations made thereunder, no

doubt, in regard to third-party information or data

available by him. The commission of an offence under Section 500 of the IPC, would not be a liability under

the Act or a Rules, or Regulations made under the Act.

However, it is undoubtedly true that the scope of the

protection afforded to the intermediary stands

remarkably expanded with the substituted provisions of Section 79 coming into force, no doubt, subject to the

conditions attached thereunder and as explained by this

Court in Shreya Singhal (supra). 65. The Government of India, no doubt, has contended

that the High Court did not have the benefit of

judgment of this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra). We

may notice that what is considered in Shreya Singhal (supra) was Section 79 after substitution. There was a

challenge mounted to the constitutionality of Section 79. This Court held as follows, inter alia: Being an exemption provision, it is
closely related to provisions which
provide for offences including Section 69- A. We have seen how under Section 69-A blocking can take place only by a reasoned
order after complying with several
procedural safeguards including a hearing
to the originator and intermediary. We
have also seen how there are only two ways
in which a blocking order can be passed—
one by the Designated Officer after
complying with the 2009 Rules and the
other by the Designated Officer when he
has to follow an order passed by a
competent court. The intermediary applying
its own mind to whether information should
or should not be blocked is noticeably
absent in Section 69-A read with the 2009
Rules. 122. Section 79(3)(b) has to be read
down to mean that the intermediary upon
receiving actual knowledge that a court
order has been passed asking it to
expeditiously remove or disable access to
certain material must then fail to
expeditiously remove or disable access to 51 that material. This is for the reason that
otherwise it would be very difficult for
intermediaries like Google, Facebook, etc.
to act when millions of requests are made
and the intermediary is then to judge as
to which of such requests are legitimate
and which are not. We have been informed
that in other countries worldwide this
view has gained acceptance, Argentina
being in the forefront. Also, the Court
order and/or the notification by the
appropriate Government or its agency must
strictly conform to the subject-matters laid down in Article 19(2). Unlawful acts
beyond what is laid down in Article 19(2) obviously cannot form any part of Section 79. With these two caveats, we refrain
from striking down Section 79(3)(b) . 123. The learned Additional Solicitor
General informed us that it is a common
practice worldwide for intermediaries to
have user agreements containing what is
stated in Rule 3(2). However, Rule 3(4)
needs to be read down in the same manner
as Section 79(3)(b) . The knowledge spoken
of in the said sub-rule must only be
through the medium of a court order. 124.3. Section 79 is valid subject to Section 79(3)(b) being read down to mean
that an intermediary upon receiving actual 52 knowledge from a court order or on being
 notified by the appropriate government or
 its agency that unlawful acts relatable to Article 19(2) are going to be committed
 then fails to expeditiously remove or
 disable access to such material. Similarly, the Information Technology
 “Intermediary Guidelines” Rules, 2011 are
 valid subject to Rule 3 sub-rule (4) being
 read down in the same manner as indicated
 in the judgment.” 66. The Court also was considering the challenge to the

provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediaries

Guidelines) Rules, 2011 (hereinafter referred to as

‘the Rules’ for short). The Rules were brought into

force after 2011. It was made under Section 87 of the

Act. Rule 3 provides for due diligence to be observed

by the intermediary. It is obliged to publish the Rules

and Regulations and the Privacy Policy and User

Agreement. The intermediary is to intimate the user not

to use certain matter which include defamatory matter.

Rule 3(3) of the Rules provided that the intermediary

was not to knowingly host or publish any information,

inter alia, contained, as specified in sub-Rule (2). 53 Thus, under the Rules, the intermediary could not

knowingly host or publish information which was, inter

alia, defamatory. Rule 3(4) of the Rules, read as

follows: 67. It is clear that the entire discussion came to be

made in the context of the challenge to the provisions

of Section 79 after substitution. No doubt, there are 54 observations, which have been made, the effect of which

we shall deal with to the extent that is relevant to

this case. What is relevant is, for the purpose of

deciding this case, we are of the view that this may

not be the case where there is an express legal bar in

the form of Section 79 of the Act prior to its

substitution. We cannot be unmindful of the fact that

we are dealing with a criminal complaint and the

question to be considered is whether the offence, as

alleged in the complaint, was committed or not.

WHETHER “RAJIV THAPAR AND OTHERS V. MADAN LAL KAPOOR”
WOULD APPLY? 68. The next question, which we must address is,

whether the appellant can persuade us to decide the

question as to whether the appellant is an intermediary

and it is Google LLC which is the intermediary. 69. “Intermediary” has been defined in the Act in Section 2(1)(ua)(w) , which reads as follows: 70. Section 2(1)(ua)(za) defines the word “originator”: 71. Section 2(1)(b) defines the word ‘addressee’ and it

reads as follows: 72. According to the appellant, this is a case where

the High Court erred in not considering and answering

the question as to whether the appellant is an 56 intermediary or not. It is the case of the appellant

that the appellant is only the subsidiary of Google LLC

which is its parent company. It is his further

submission that the High Court ought to have permitted

the appellant to draw support from terms of service

regarding Google Groups which convincingly establishes

that the services were provided by Google LLC and not

the appellant. In this regard, reliance is placed on

judgments of this Court in Rajiv Thapar and others v.

Madan Lal Kapoor21 and HMT Watches Ltd. v. M.A. Abida and another22. It is contended that Google Groups terms

of service is a document of sterling value being of

indisputable character. What is produced before us is

last update seen dated 10.12.2010. Under the same,

there was reference to responsibilities of the

originator under the head ‘content’ your

responsibilities. It is submitted that the originator,

not Google, which will be liable for the content that

will be uploaded, posted, disseminated, etc., which is 21 (2013) 3 SCC 330 22 (2015) 11 SCC 776 57 collectively said to be posted via the service. Under

appropriate conduct, it is stated as follows: 73. We may also notice, under the head “Propriety

Rights”, “Google’s Rights”, it is mentioned as follows: 74. We may also notice the following under head

“Advertisements”: 75. Also, we noticed the conditions under the heading

“Disclaimer of Warranties”: 76. It is further submitted that the terms of service

would constitute the entire agreement between the party

and Google. Under the “Google Groups Content Policy”,

it was brought to our notice by the learned Counsel for

the appellant that Google has a zero-tolerance policy

towards the content that exploits children. Google

retains the power to remove hate speech which is

explained as content that promotes hate or violence

towards groups based on race, ethnicity, religion,

disability, gender, age, veteran status, or sexual

orientation/gender identity. There is an exhortation

against threatening, harassing or bullying other people

using Groups. There is again the condition that groups

cannot be used to encourage any illegal activities or

to promote dangerous and illegal activities. 62 77. As far as decision in Rajiv Thapar (supra), relied

upon by appellant, is concerned, it involved the

following facts. The appellant therein was married to

the deceased. The deceased fell ill and was admitted in

the hospital. She was diagnosed with as suffering from

malaria. After she was discharged, she again fell ill.

The Echocardiography confirmed presence of a large hole

in her heart. She succumbed to a massive heart attack.

Suspecting poisoning, father of the deceased filed the

complaint. The Medical Board found death due to cardiac

decompensation. The CFSL Report also indicated no

common poison. The Metropolitan Magistrate, who was

approached by the father of the deceased, committed the

case to the Sessions Court who discharged the

appellant-accused. The High Court, however, set aside

the order. It was in these circumstances, this Court

took the following view in regard to the manner in

which the matter must be approached when a party

approaches High Court under Section 482 of the Cr.PC: 63 and/or the material is such that it cannot
be justifiably refuted by the prosecution/
complainant? 65 30.4.Step four: whether proceeding with
 the trial would result in an abuse of
 process of the court, and would not serve
 the ends of justice? 30.5. If the answer to all the steps is
 in the affirmative, the judicial
 conscience of the High Court should
 persuade it to quash such criminal
 proceedings in exercise of power vested in
 it under Section 482 CrPC. Such exercise
 of power, besides doing justice to the
 accused, would save precious court time,
 which would otherwise be wasted in holding
 such a trial (as well as proceedings
 arising therefrom) specially when it is
 clear that the same would not conclude in
 the conviction of the accused.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 78. The court also declared that the High Court must be

fully satisfied about the material and that material

produced by the accused must be such that the defence

is based on sound, reasonable and indisputable facts. 79. In HMT Watches (supra), the complaint was one under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. In

the said case, this Court faulted the High Court in

having expressed its view on disputed questions of fact 66 in a petition under Section 482 to conclude that an

offence was not made out. Factual matters which were

not admitted between the parties could not form the

basis for the High Court to interfere. 80. In regard to the attempt, on the part of the

appellant, to persuade us to follow the judgment of

this Court in Rajiv Thapar (supra), we felt dissuaded

from undertaking the said course on the following

reasoning. It is true that a perusal of the petition

before the High Court reveals that appellant has

purported to take up the contention that the website is

the service offered by the Google Inc, the parent

company of the appellant and that the services are

provided by the parent company directly to the users.

It is also the case of the appellant that service

provided on the website is free and the end user can

post a blog without making any payment. The terms of

service and content policy on the website is also seen

produced. Impugned order of the High Court, however, 67 reveals that the court understood the arguments

apparently of the appellant as follows: 81. The defence raised by the appellant, which,

according to him, consisted of documents in the form of

the conditions stipulated by the parent company in its

conditions, are disputed. To expatiate, according to

the respondent, the said contention is factual. There

is a case also that they are produced without complying

with the mandate of Section 65B of the Indian Evidence

Act, 1872. In this regard, reliance is placed on Anvar

P.V. v. P.K. Basheer and others23. There is also 23 (2014) 10 SCC 473 68 definite case for the respondent that appellant cannot

be allowed to disown its role in the Google Groups

being part of the common economic entity. It is

contended by the complainant that the appellant did not

clarify by way of answer to the query by the court as

to what activities they indulge in India. The

Memorandum of Association is referred to contend that

the main objects include providing network related

products or services and applications. It is the case

of the complainant further that in fact the entire

operations of Google Economic Entity, the users are

provided digital space purportedly free but are made to

part with their personal data as consideration. The

said data is used for generating advertisement

revenues. The onus would be on the appellant if it

seeks to dispel this fact to lead evidence to show that

the appellant does not have any role to plea in the

activities of Google. As to whether, it is Google INC,

which is responsible for the Google Groups and the

appellant is not, it is contended by the complainant, 69 is a matter for evidence. It cannot be determined on

the basis of photocopies of documents filed with the

paper books before this Court. 82. We have noticed that the appellant appears to have

produced the Google Groups conditions even before the

High Court. It is also appeared to have taken the

contention that it is Google Groups which is an

intermediary. 83. In this connection, it is our view that this is not

a case where the High Court could be invited

particularly in the light of the stand of the

complainant, as noticed, to decide in favour of the

appellant by holding that it is the parent company

which is the actual intermediary and not appellant. We

are not inclined in this regard to borrow any findings

from the Civil Court in proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.PC. We must remind ourselves also that the

proceedings are at the stage where the High Court

appear to have entered a finding in favour of the

appellant in the Second Appeal filed under Section 100 70 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter

referred to as ‘ the CPC ’, for short). However, it is

common case that both parties have filed Review

Petitions. In other words, the matter has not yet

attained finality. 84. In this regard, the question, however, arises

whether the complainant accepts this version of the

appellant or disputes it. We would think that the

complainant does not accepts the actual role of the

appellant. The nature of operations of the appellant,

according to the appellant, is not clear. What is the

actual relationship between the Parent Company and

appellant, is, according to the complainant, a matter

for decision on evidence being taken. In other words,

the contention of the appellant that appellant is not

an intermediary and, hence, cannot be fastened, at any

rate, with criminal liability, is subject matter of

dispute. WHETHER “SHARAT BABU DIGUMARTI V. GOVERNMENT (NCT OF
DELHI )” COMES TO THE RESCUE OF THE APPELLANT? 71 85. There is need to also address an argument based on

the decision of this Court in Sharat Babu Digumarti v.

Government (NCT of Delhi )24. 86. Section 81 of the Act reads as follows: 87. This Court, in Sharat Babu (supra), was dealing

with a complaint under Sections 292 and 294 of the IPC

and Section 67 of the Act. The central issue which

arose for consideration was, whether the appellant

therein, who stood discharged under Section 67 of the

Act, could be proceeded under Section 292 of the IPC.

Section 292 of the Code makes it an offence to sell,

hire, distribute, etc., any obscene object, whatsoever.

Other offences relating to dealing in obscene objects,

also form the subject matter of the Section. The court 24 (2017) 2 SCC 18 72 referred to the definition of “electronic record” under Section 2(1)(t) of the Act and found it was a question

relating to electronic record. Thereafter, the court

referred to Section 67 of the Act which penalises

publishing or transmitting obscene material in

electronic form. Section 67B punishes and penalises

publishing or transmitting of material depicting

children in sexually explicit act, etc., in electronic

form. 88. The argument of the appellant, thus, is seen noted

as hereunder: “29. We have referred to the
 aforesaid aspect as it has been argued by
 Dr Singhvi that the appellant is protected
 under the said provision, even if the
 entire allegations are accepted. According
 to him, once the factum of electronic
 record is admitted, Section 79 of the IT
 Act must apply ipso facto and ipso jure.
 The learned Senior Counsel has urged Section 79 , as the language would suggest
 and keeping in view the paradigm of
 internet world where service providers of
 platforms do not control and indeed cannot
 control the acts/omissions of primary,
 secondary and tertiary users of such
 internet platforms, protects the 73 intermediary till he has the actual
 knowledge. He would contend that the Act
 has created a separate and distinct
 category called “originator” in terms of Section 2(1)(z)(a) under the IT Act to
 which the protection under Section 79 of
 the IT Act has been consciously not
 extended. Relying on the decision
 in Shreya Singhal [Shreya
 Singhal v. Union of India , (2015) 5 SCC
 1 : (2015) 2 SCC (Cri) 449] , he has urged
 that the horizon has been expanded and the
 effect of Section 79 of the IT Act
 provides protection to the individual
 since the provision has been read down
 emphasising on the conception of actual
 knowledge. Relying on the said provision,
 it is further canvassed by him that Section 79 of the IT Act gets
 automatically attracted to electronic
 forms of publication and transmission by
 intermediaries, since it explicitly uses
 the non obstante clauses and has an
 overriding effect on any other law in
 force. Thus, the emphasis is on the three
 provisions, namely, Sections 67 , 79 and 81 , and the three provisions, according to
 Dr Singhvi, constitute a holistic
 trinity.” 89. Thereafter, the court referred to Section 81 which

we have extracted, and finally, the court held as

follows: 90. We are not inclined to accept this argument based

on the dicta laid down in Sharat Babu (supra). It is

true that the offences were alleged to have been

committed at a time when Section 79 had not been

substituted, as we notice that cognizance was taken on

14.02.2006. We may notice the reasoning in paragraph

37, which reads as follows: 75 ASSUMING APPELLANT IS AN INTERMEDIARY: A BRIEF OVERVIEW
OF THE LAW OF DEFAMATION 97. The next question is proceeding on the basis that

it is the appellant which is the intermediary within

the meaning of the Act whether the appellant could be

foisted with liability in a case where appellant is

being proceeded against in a criminal case for having

committed the offence under Section 500 read with Section 120B of the IPC. In this regard, let us

consider the contentions of the complainant. It is

first contended that the appellant’s role in the

control of Google Groups as publisher is a question of

fact. It is pointed out that Google has control on the

content being uploaded by the authors. It has full

freedom to remove any content without reference to

anyone much less court orders. Google itself recognizes

that defamation is not an accepted conduct and takes an

undertaking from its users. Google cannot claim to be 81 mere passive technology service provider which is

promoting free speech. It provides various tools to

create/edit/modify the content apart from uploading the

content. It is contended that for the purpose of

defamation, Google may have some defence till such time

till they are not aware of the defamatory content.

However, once they are made aware of the defamatory

content, then, by allowing the same to continue,

refusing to exercise control as platform provider, it

becomes fully liable for the consequences of publishing

defamatory material. Being a technology giant, is not a

license to break laws. It does not provide immunity

from the liability under the IPC . 98. There is an attempt by the appellant before us to

contend that even taking the averments in the posts

which have been uploaded by the first accused, it would

not amount to defamation. The essence of the offence of

defamation, as defined in Section 499, would consist of

words either spoken or intended to be read or by signs

or by visible representations making or publishing any 82 imputation concerning any person with the intention to

harm or knowing or having reason to believe that such

imputation will harm the reputation of that person

subject to the Exceptions and Explanations which follow

the main provision. Explanation II declares that it may

amount to defamation to make an imputation concerning a

company or an association or collection of persons as

such. Explanation IV reads as follows: 99. It is undoubtedly true that the first Exception

exempts from criminal liability, statements which are

true and which are required for public good. It reads

as follows: 100. The 9th Exception may be relevant. It reads as

follows: State of Andhra Pradesh, (1997) 7 Supreme
 Today 127.” 101. We would not think that it would be appropriate,

proper or legal for the court to accept the submission

of the appellant that the post in question do not

constitute defamation. This is for the reason that such

an exercise would be out of bounds in the facts of this

case, in particular, in a petition filed under Section

482 of the Cr.PC. As to whether it constitute

defamation and as to whether it falls in any of the

Explanations/Exceptions, would be all matters to be

decided by the court. 102. The question which remains is everything being

assumed in favour of the complainant, viz., that the

first accused has posted defamatory material by 85 uploading it on the platform and the appellant is an

intermediary providing the said platform, the argument

of the appellant is that even then, the appellant is

not liable. We have noticed the stand of the Government

of India also. An intermediary provides a platform.

Millions of posts are uploaded every day. We have

noticed the definition of words “originator” and

“addressee”. The case of the appellant is that the

originator in this case, the first accused, is the

author of the alleged defamatory material. Unlike an

article which is written by person ‘A’ and which is got

published in a newspaper or publication which is

brought out by a person ‘B’, the case of the appellant

is that the first accused is both the originator, and

therefore, the author and he is also the publisher.

Assuming everything against the appellant as aforesaid,

the offence if at all has been committed, may have been

committed by the first accused. The appellant seeks to

wash its hands off the contents of the article as also

the publication. The responsibility for authoring the 86 material and publishing(uploading) lies at the doorstep

of the fist accused. The appellant has no role at all

in this matter. In such circumstances, it is the case

of the appellant that having regard to the role played

by the appellant, again assuming that it is the

intermediary, involved in this case, it cannot be made

liable. It is the further case of the appellant that at

the most, liability may arise, if a party aggrieved by

material, which can be understood as electronic record

under the Act, approaches the appellant armed with a

court order or an authority directing it to remove the

offending posts. Till then, the appellant is not

liable, in law, to take steps against the material.

This is apart from pointing out that it is incumbent

upon the complaining party to assist the intermediary

by providing it with the URL so that the matter could

be located and action taken. In fact, in this case, it

is pointed out that the appellant, as a good gesture,

upon receipt of complaint, written to parent company,

which, in fact, is the intermediary and the parent 87 company wrote back seeking URL. The actions of the

appellant have been bonafide. It has no role to play in

the commission of the alleged offence. It is in this

context that appellant would contend that in law an

intermediary cannot and should not be designated as the

Competent Authority to decide upon the question as to

whether any material falls foul of the law of

defamation leading to the unilateral interference with

the free exchange of ideas though the internet.

Internet, it is pointed out, is universal, and in the

words of the Government of India, which supports the

appellant in this Court, a democratic medium for the

free exchange of ideas. Any conferment of unilateral

power upon the intermediary would introduce what is

called the chilling effect. SECTION 499 OF THE IPC : “MAKES OR PUBLISHES”: 103. It is important that we notice the indispensable

ingredients of the offence under Section 499 of the

IPC. Section 499 reads as follows: 104. Under the said provision, the Law Giver has made

the making or publishing of any imputation with a

requisite intention or knowledge or reason to believe,

as provided therein, that the imputation will harm the

reputation of any person, the essential ingredients of

the offence of defamation. What is the meaning to be

attached to the words “making of an imputation” and

“publishing of an imputation”? This question has been

set out with clarity in a recent judgment which is 89 reported in Mohd. Abdulla Khan v. Prakash K.25 . It was

held as follows: The difference between making of an
 imputation and publishing the same
 is: 105. We may incidentally also notice an earlier judgment

of this Court in this context reported in M.C. Verghese

v. T.J. Poonan and another26. The daughter of the

appellant therein, who was married to the respondent

(T.J. Poonan), received certain letters from her

husband which the appellant-father-in-law complained as

containing defamatory statements against him. The

Magistrate took the view that being a communication

between husband and wife, it did not amount to

defamation as there was no publication since in the eye

of law, as the husband and wife are one. He also took

the view that the communication between the spouses was 26 (1969) 1 SCC 37 91 privileged under Section 122 of the Indian Evidence

Act, 1872. This Court reversed the view taken by the

High Court which had upheld the view of the Magistrate

though in the interregnum the Magistrate’s view did not

find favour with the learned Sessions Judge. This Court

took the view that the principle, the husband and wife

are one in the eye of law, has not been adopted in its

full force under our system and certainly not in our

criminal jurisprudence (see paragraph 7). It is,

thereafter, that the Court made following observations: 106. No doubt, the Court did not express a final

opinion. 107. In the light of this discussion, we may only

reiterate that the criminal offence of defamation under Section 499 of the IPC is committed when a person makes

a defamatory imputation which, as explained in Mohd.

Abdulla Khan (supra), would consist of the imputation

being conveyed to the person about whom the imputation

is made. A publication, on the other hand, is made when

the imputation is communicated to persons other than

the persons about whom the defamatory imputation is 93 conveyed. A person, who makes the defamatory

imputation, could also publish the imputation and thus

could be the maker and the publisher of a defamatory

imputation. On the other hand, a person may be liable

though he may not have made the statement but he

publishes it. 108. In this case, the case of the appellant appears to

be that it is indisputable that it is the first

defendant who has not only authored the statements

containing imputations which are allegedly defamatory

but it is he who has also published it. In this regard,

the parties before us have drawn our attention to case

law emanating from courts other than in India.

THE DEFAMATION ACTS IN ENGLAND: A LOOK AT SOME
DECISIONS UNDER THE SAME 109. Before we proceed to consider the case law, a

bird’s overview of the law of defamation, as contained

in United Kingdom, may be appreciated. The Defamation

Act of 1952, as contained in Sections 4 , 7 , 8 , 9(2) and 9(3) and Sections 16(2) and 16(3) came to be repealed 94 by the Defamation Act of 1996. The Defamation Act of

2013 further amended the law by declaring that a

statement is not defamatory unless its publication has

caused or is likely to cause serious harm to the

reputation of the claimant which, in the case of body

that trades for profit, it was made clear that the

serious harm would not arise unless there is caused

serious financial loss or likelihood of such loss.

Truth was declared as a defence. Certain defences were

introduced. Considerations of public interest was

introduced in regard to operators of website. Section 5 was enacted, which reads as follows: 110. There are other provisions which need not detain

us. We may, no doubt, also notice the meaning of the

word “publish”, inter alia, as contained in Section 15

of the Defamation Act, 2013: 111. The Act was to apply only to England and Wales.

Certain provisions were to apply to Scotland also. 98 112. It may be noticed, however, that the Defamation

Act, 1996, as indeed the Defamation Act, 1952, provided

as follows: 113. In Section 20(2) of the Defamation Act, 1996, it is

stated that nothing in the said Act affected the law

relating to criminal libel. There is a similar

provision in the Defamation Act, 1952. Section 17(2) of

the Defamation Act, 1952 also declared that nothing in

the Act affected the law relating to criminal libel. 114. Criminal libel, however, came to be repealed by the

Coroners and Justice Act, 2009. 115. The complainant would refer to judgment in Byrne v.

Deane27 as also Payam Tamiz v. Google Inc.28. The

appellant, on the other hand, relied upon the judgment

of the Queens Bench in Bunt v. Tilley29. There is also

reference by the respondent to the judgment in Godfrey

v. Demon Internet Limited30. Let us now take these cases 27 (1937) 1 KB 818 28 (2013) EWCA CB 68 29 (2006) EWHC 407 30 (2001) QB 201 99 in the chronological order and the context in which the

matter arose and was decided. 116. In Byrne (supra), the facts may be noticed. The

complainant was a member of a Golf Club. The defendants

were the proprietors and the female defendant was also

the Secretary. The rules of the Club, inter alia,

prohibited posting of any notice or placard in the Club

premises without the consent of the Secretary. There

were certain automatic gambling machines kept by the

defendants for the use of the members of the Club. On a

complaint, the machines were removed from the Club

premises. Alleging that a defamatory verse was put up

on the wall of the Club, the plaintiff brought an

action in libel alleging publication by the defendants

of matter defamatory to him. In short, it was his case

that the words were meant to convey that it was the

plaintiff who reported the matter to the Police which

undermined his loyalty to the members of the Club. The

learned Judge, who heard the civil action for damages,

gave judgement to the plaintiff. He came to the 100 conclusion that the matter complained of was

defamatory. He further found that since the defendants

allowed the notice to remain on the walls of the Club,

over which the defendants have complete control, the

publication of it was made with their approval and they

had, therefore, published that libel. As regards the

question whether there was publication by the

defendants, the Court, by a majority, took the view

that there was publication. Greer L.J. held as follows: 117. Slesser L.J. wrote a separate opinion wherein he

took the view that complainant had failed to show

publication against the male defendant. With regard to

the female defendant, it was held as follows: 102 118. Greer L.J., further held as follows: 119. Greene L.J., took the view that there was evidence

of publication by both the defendants. It was held as

follows: 103 120. In Godfrey (supra), the case was a civil action.

The complainant was a Lecturer in Physics, Mathematics

and Computer Science resident in England. The defendant

was an internet service provider. On the 13 th of 105 January, 1997, some unknown person made a post in the

U.S.A. in news group soc.culture.thai and stores which

was carried on by the defendant. For about a fortnight,

the posting was available to be read by its customers.

According to the complainant, it was defamatory, inter

alia, to him. It purported to emanate from the

complainant though his name was misspelt. Complainant

claimed it to be a forgery. He sent a letter to the

Managing Director of the defendant-company about the

posting being a forgery and disowning responsibility of

the same, he requested removal of the same from the

server. It was not disputed by the defendant that it

could have obliterated the post after receiving the

request. The court examined the matter thereafter, on

the basis of the governing law, viz., Defamation Act,

1996. The following discussion is relevant: 121. The court purported to follow the judgment in Byrne

(supra) and held as follows: 122. The court finally concluded that the plaintiffs

summons to strike out parts of the defence as

disclosing no sustainable defence which was to the

effect that in common law, they were not publishers of

the internet posting. The plaintiff’s summons was

allowed to strike out the defence. 123. Now, we may turn to Bunt (supra) decided on

10.03.2006 by the Queen’s Bench Division of the High

Court. Defendants 4 to 6 in the civil proceeding were

internet service providers. The service providers

applied under Civil Procedure Rules (CPR) 3.4(2) and

(CPR) 24 for an order to the High Court. The claim of

the plaintiff was based on the allegation that the

individual defendants published the offending words

through the services provided by the internet service

providers. In paragraph 7, the Court considered it

necessary to consider the defence relied upon by the

parties which, in fact, was admissible for the purpose

of CPR Part 24. The court referred to the decision in 110 Godfrey (supra). The court also held, inter alia, as

follows: Still further, the Court referred in detail to the

witness statement of the Director (Technical and

Operations) in AOL: 114 (b) that the statement of case is an
 abuse of the court’s process or is
 otherwise likely to obstruct the just
 disposal of the proceedings; or (c) that there has been a failure to
 comply with a rule, practice
 direction or court order.” 126. In Richardson (supra), decided on 02.11.2015, the

claimant sought damages in respect of publication on a

Facebook profile and a blog post on the Google blogger

service. The profile and the blog post were purportedly

created by that claimant but the claimant complained

that they were fake being created by an imposter. She

claimed that both were defamatory and violated her 117 right to respect for her private life under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Proceedings

were commenced against Facebook U.K. in respect of the

profile they described as the Facebook action and

against Google U.K. Limited in respect of the blog

post, shown as the Google action. The action came to be

dismissed. The principle ground was that the suit was

against the company which was not responsible for the

publication which meant that she had prosecuted the

case against the wrong defendant. In appeal, she cited

certain issues to be referred to the Court of Justice

of the European Union. The Court referred to Bunt

(supra), Godfrey (supra) and Byrne (supra). The Court

held as follows: 127. Thereafter, the Court went on to notice that the

Defamation Act, 1996, mitigated the rigor of the common

law principles by providing a defence for those who by

application of those principles were publishers of

common law. Court further went on to hold that internet

service providers and others are not responsible for

publication according to the common law principles

discussed, that is to say, who were not publishers at

common law, had no need to take resort under the

Defamation Act. The court went on to refer to

Defamation Act, 2013 which came into force on

01.01.2014. Further, the court held as follows: EFFECT OF SUBSTITUTION OF SECTION 79 OF THE ACT 123 133. Section 79 of the Act came to be substituted with

effect from 27.10.2009. In fact, the effect of

substitution of a provision has been dealt with by this

Court in the decision in State of Rajasthan v. Mangilal

Pindwal31 : “10. Similarly in Crawford's
 Interpretation of Laws it has been said: 134. In this case, the complaint itself is dated

21.01.2009. The sworn statement of Deputy Manager

(Legal) of the complainant is recorded on 27.02.2009.

The sworn statement reads as follows: WHETHER APPELLANT NOT LIABLE AS IT IS ONLY A SUBSIDIARY 136. As far as the question whether being a subsidiary

of Google LLC, the appellant is an independent body

which is not to be mulcted with liability, we would

think it is not a matter to be gone into in Section 482 127 of the Cr.PC. We have noticed the stand of the

Government of India also as also of the complainant.

FINDINGS OF HIGH COURT REGARDING COMPLAINANT’S NOTICE
AND CONDUCT OF THE APPELLANT 137. In the impugned judgment, the learned Judge has

proceeded to refer to the notices, which was, according

to the complaint, issued, calling upon the appellant to

remove the objectionable post. It is found that the

appellant did not move its little finger to stop

dissemination of the unlawful and objectionable

material. Therefore, the appellant cannot claim

exemption under either Section 79 of the Act, as it

stood originally, or Section 79 of the Act, after the

amendment which took effect from 27.10.2009. It was

further found that as per Section 79(3) , as amended,

the exemption cannot be applied by any court and

claimed by an intermediary in case an intermediary

entered into any conspiracy in respect thereof. It is

in this regard that we may notice that there is a

definite case for the complainant that there was a

conspiracy between the appellant and the first accused 128 as it is alleged in the complaint that the accused, in

connivance with each other, have disseminated the

information with malafide intention. There is also

reference to Section 120B of the IPC besides Sections

500, 501 read with Section 34 of the IPC. As far as the

view expressed in the impugned order that the appellant

cannot claim any exemption under Section 79 of the Act

after the amendment, is concerned, we are of the view

that it appears to be in the teeth of the pronouncement

of this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra). Section 79 , as

substituted, came to be read down to mean that it is

not sufficient if a notice is given to delete a post to

the intermediary. The applicant, who seeks a removal,

must be armed with a court order. In this case, there

is no case for the complainant that when the removal

was sought of the objectionable post, there was any

decision of any competent court or that there was any

directive of a competent authority to remove the post. Therefore, in the light of Shreya Singhal (supra), the 129 finding, clearly of the High Court, in this regard,

appears to be unsustainable and we hold so. 138. The finding by the High Court that in the case on

hand, in spite of the complainant issuing notice,

bringing it to the notice of the appellant about the

dissemination of defamatory matter on the part of the

first accused through the medium of appellant,

appellant did not move its little finger to block the

said material to stop dissemination and, therefore,

cannot claim exemption under Section 79 of the Act, as

it originally stood, is afflicted with two flaws. In

the first place, the High Court itself has found that Section 79 , as it originally was enacted, had nothing

to do with offences with laws other than the Act. We

have also found that Section 79 , as originally enacted,

did not deal with the effect of other laws. In short,

since defamation is an offence under Section 499 of the

IPC, Section 79 , as it stood before substitution, had

nothing to do with freeing of the appellant from

liability under the said provision. Secondly, there is 130 a case for the appellant that on receipt of notice, the

appellant, as a gesture, forwarded its complaint to its

Parent Company Google LLC which called for the details

by its letter dated 06.01.2009. The complaint came to

be filed on 21.01.2009. We do not think that the High

Court was justified, therefore, in entering findings in

the manner it was done. Further, the High Court has not

taken into consideration the distinction between

blocking and a takedown. 139. Even Section 79 , as substituted with effect from

27.10.2009, denies the benefit of the exemption in a

case where there is a conspiracy between the

intermediary or abetting or aiding or inducing or

otherwise in the commission of the unlawful act. Again,

we notice that the case in the complaint is that there

was connivance between the accused. This is not a

matter which we feel could be considered to be

proceeded under Section 482 of the Cr.PC. 140. We may also notice that in the Civil Suit also, the

complainant maintains that the appellant is the service 131 provider and it has abused the services provided by it

(see paragraph 11 of the plaint). Appellant is,

undoubtedly, the second defendant whereas Google Inc.

has also been made a party as third defendant. We say

this as appellant has a case that in the Civil Suit,

the complainant has set up a case that it is Google LLC

which was the actual service provider.

PUBLICATION 141. If defamatory matter is published as to who

published it, is a question of fact. As already noted,

publication involves bringing defamatory matter to the

knowledge of a person or persons other than the one who

is defamed. We would approve of the principles laid

down by Greene L.J. in Byrne (supra) that “in some

circumstances, a person by refraining from removing or

obliterating the defamatory matter, is not committing

any publication at all. In other circumstances, he may

be doing so. The test, it appears to me is this: having

regard to all the facts of the case, is the proper

inference that by not removing the defamatory matter, 132 the defendant really made himself responsible for its

continued presence in the place where it has been put?”

Whether there is publication, indeed involves asking

the question also as noted by the learned Judge, as to

whether there was power and the right to remove any

such matter. If despite such power, and also, ability

to remove the matter, if the person does not respond,

it would amount to publication. The said principle, in

our view, would hold good even to determine whether

there is publication under Section 499 of the IPC. The

further requirement, no doubt, is indispensable, i.e.,

it must contain imputations with the intention to harm

or with knowledge or having reasons to believe that it

will harm the reputation of the person concerned. 142. In this case, the substantial complaint of the

complainant appears to be based on the refusal by the

appellant to remove the matter after being notified.

Publication would be the result even in the context of

a medium like the internet by the intermediary if it

defies a court order and refuses to takedown the 133 matter. This, undoubtedly, is the position even under

the decision in Shreya Singhal (supra) which has read

down Section 79(3)(b) and the Intermediary Rules

already noted. 143. In this regard, we may notice the following

statement in the complaint: - 144. As noted by us, in answering the question whether

there has been publication for the purpose of criminal

libel also on the basis that despite the defamatory

matter being notified, it is not removed, the analogy

of the wall of a club or notice board of a club may not

be as such available when it comes to medium like the 135 internet. We have noticed that in Byrne (supra), the

test would also be whether the party having the power

to remove the allegedly defamatory matter and also the

right to remove it and being able to do it without any

difficulty defies and rejects the request. The example

of the notice board or a wall of a club, as was the

case in Byrne (supra), is not strictly available when

we are asked to apply it as such in the case of medium

like internet. 145. As was noted in Bunt (supra), in Godfrey (supra),

the receipt of the letter requesting for obliterating

the post was not in dispute and more importantly that

it could have obliterated the post, was again not in

controversy. For deciding whether there is publication,

we see merit in the exposition of law made by the

English Courts as aforesaid. 146. We have noticed that what is declared a crime in Section 499 of the IPC is the making or publishing of

matter which defames, as described in the Section. The

making or publication must be also accompanied with the 136 intention or knowledge requisite as mentioned in the

Section to constitute that act a crime. 147. There was a notice, admittedly received from the

complainant by the appellant, dated 09.12.2008, calling

upon the appellant to, inter alia, remove the

controversial post (See paragraph 9 of the Petition

under Section 482 of the Cr.PC). It is the appellant’s

case that since it did not control the services and as

the notice did not concern its activities, the

appellant forwarded the legal notice to its Parent

Company for its response. Appellant further contended

before the High Court that the Parent Company, in turn,

responded to the complainant on 06.01.2009. Since, the

notice issued by the complainant did not denote the

space and services which allegedly host the defamatory

articles, the complainant was asked to provide the

exact details. 148. It is again the appellant’s case that the

complainant, however, proceeded to file the complaint

on 21.01.2009. We will take the appellant’s case as it 137 is projected. Thereafter, we will test it with

reference to the jurisdiction under Section 482 of the

Cr.PC as to whether this is a matter which can be gone

into under Section 482. To elaborate, we hold: 149. As to whether there is justification for the Parent

Company in requiring the complainant to provide the URL

so that the offending post could be identified and

dealt with and dehors it whether it could remove the

post, is again a matter, which in our view, it may not

be possible for the appellant to persuade us to hold,

could be gone into the proceedings under Section 482 of 139 the Cr.PC . This also is on the basis that the Parent

Company is the intermediary. To make matters even more

clear, even proceeding on the basis that the first

accused is the originator, as defined in the Act, of

the allegedly defamatory matter, and the first accused

is not only the author but is also the publisher of

allegedly defamatory matter, and again proceeding on

the basis that it is the appellant, who is the

intermediary and not its Parent Company, the refusal on

the part of the appellant to remove the post, may

amount to publication on the basis of the principle

enunciated in Bryne (supra) and as applied to medium of

internet in Godfrey (supra), as later explained,

however, in Bunt (supra). In other words, there may be

publication within the meaning of Section 499 of the

IPC even in the case of an internet operator, if having

the power and the right and the ability to remove a

matter, upon being called upon to do so, there is a

refusal to do so. This is, no doubt, subject to Shreya

Singhal (supra)where it applies. It is also clear that 140 to constitute the offence under Section 500 of the IPC,

mere publication would not suffice. As we have noted,

we cannot go into that aspect on the basis of the

notice sent on 09.12.2008 by the complainant on account

of the obstacles which we have pointed out earlier. In

other words, the disowning of the liability to remove

the post is inextricably intertwined with the

appellant’s denial of it being the intermediary. Also,

the question as to whether the demand for the URL and

justification for not removing, based on the same being

questions essentially relating to the facts, cannot be

gone into in Section 482 proceedings. 150. The only aspect, which really remains, is the

aspect that even accepting that the appellant is an

intermediary and it had the power otherwise to accede

to the request of the appellant to remove the offending

material, the so-called right or power of the appellant

is really not a power and the right, but is nothing but

a mere illusion as assuming such powers or exercising

such a right would involve conferring of unilateral and 141 impermissible adjudicatory power, contrary to the

regime of fundamental right of free expression so

indispensable to the continued efficacy of the internet

as an open democratic medium. In other words,

proceeding on the basis of the assumption that the

appellant is the intermediary and that it stood alerted

by the complainant by letter dated 09.12.2008, the

appellant has not removed the offensive posts though it

could technically remove it, therefore, it amounted to

publication and this publication attracts Section 499 of the IPC. The argument, however, is even in Section

482 of the Cr.PC, the court must qualify the right and

the power of the appellant even assuming to be the

intermediary to act freely as it would opposed to the

principles which have been evolved in regard to the

internet service provider that it is not open to it to

unilaterally decide as to what matter should be removed

and it can act so as to remove on the basis of the

request only if there is a court order. Any other view 142 would make it a despot strangling the free flow of

ideas which is what the internet is all about. 151. The problem arises in this way however. It is while

considering a challenge to Section 79 of the Act, after

it was substituted with effect from 27.10.2009 and

considering the Rules made in the year 2011 also, and a

challenge to the same also, that in Shreya Singhal (supra), the provisions were read down to mean that Section 79(3)(b) of the Act and Rule 3(4) of the Rules,

would require an internet service operator to takedown

third-party information not on mere knowledge of

objection to its continuance but after there has been

an impartial adjudication as it were by a court. To

focus more on the problem, it must be pointed out that

in the facts of this case, the acts constituting the

alleged offence under Section 499 of the IPC, were done

not when Section 79 , after its substitution, was in

place. The Rules were enacted in the year 2011. In such

circumstances, what we are asked to do is to import in

the principles into the factual matrix when Section 79 143 was differently worded and in proceedings under Section

482 of the Cr.PC. It is, undoubtedly, true that Article

19(1)(a) and Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India

were very much available in 2008 and 2009 though Section 79 was in its erstwhile avtar. In other words,

will it not be open to the appellant, assuming it to be

the intermediary, to contend that it cannot be called

upon to remove, defamatory matter comprised in any

third-party information without there being a court

order? 152. It is here that we would remind ourselves that we

are called upon in this case to decide the correctness

and legality of the order of the High Court passed in

the proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.PC. This

contention, as such, has not been raised. We notice, in

fact, that in the very first ground, however, before

the High Court, it is contended that the appellant has

no role. It has no control over the services provided

on the website. Thereafter, it is contended that even

the employees of the Parent Company do not have the 144 ability to remove the content posted on the blog

without an order from a court of competent

jurisdiction. It is the further case before the High

Court that under the law of United States of America

which governed the functioning of the Parent Company,

it is not obliged or required to remove any allegedly

defamatory content without the court order. There was

no contention taken that on the basis that even if

appellant is assumed to be the intermediary, the

continuance of the articles after a request by the

complainant to remove it, would not constitute

publication at the hands of the appellant for the

reason that it will not constitute publication as there

is no court order in India. It was also, no doubt, true

that the decision of this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra) was rendered nearly five years after the

impugned judgment of the High Court. As already

noticed, what was laid down in Shreya Singhal (supra)

was premised upon the challenge to Section 79(3)(b) which replaced the erstwhile avtar of Section 79 and 145 also a challenge to the Intermediary Rules of 2011,

both of which provisions came to be read down by the

court. 153. What appellant is asking this Court to do is to

decide the point which is not even raised as such

before the High Court. Having noticed the exact ground

taken before the High Court, it relates to the

inability of the Parent Company to remove the post

without the court order. However, we feel that this is

a question which can be, independent of the non-

availability of the protection under Section 79 of the

Act in its erstwhile avtar, pursued by the appellant.

This is a matter which we leave it open to the

appellant to urge before the Court. 154. There is a complaint by the appellant that the

Magistrate did not have territorial jurisdiction over

the appellant and the procedure under Section 203 of

the Cr.PC should have been followed. We noticed that

this contention was not raised before the High Court.

We further noticed that on this ground alone, in the 146 facts of this case, after nearly a decade of the matter

pending in this Court, it would be unjust to remand the

matter back to the Magistrate, which we must indeed

note, was one of the submissions of the appellant. 155. The upshot of the above discussion is as follows: 156. We leave open the contentions of the parties except

those which we have finally pronounced upon. Subject to

the above, the Magistrate shall proceed with the

complaint. The appeal stands disposed of as aforesaid. ……………………………….J.
 (Ashok Bhushan)

 …………………………………J.
 (K.M. Joseph)
New Delhi; December 10, 2019. 148