Mrs. Kiran Sibal, Member

Present:- 2 jointly and severally liable to comply with this order." 2. It would be apposite to mention that hereinafter the parties

will be referred, as have been arrayed before the District Commission. 3. Brief facts for the disposal of the appeal are that the

complainant was having a saving bank account No.04321050044277

with OP No.1 and had been availing its ATM/Debit Card facility. The

complainant alleged that on 17.09.2019, after noon, OP No.1 debited a

total amount of Rs.99,000/- through 9 debit entries in complainant's

account. This amount was neither withdrawn by complainant nor

remitted to anyone. The complainant had not used his ATM for

shopping or any other purpose. Neither had he shared password of his FA No. 511 of 2022 3 bank account login nor any OTP was received on his mobile

phone/email Id. The complainant never handed over his mobile phone

to anyone else and even on the said date i.e. 17.09.2019, he was

sleeping at his home. The complainant noticed the bank messages at

about 3:00 PM and was shocked to see that an amount of Rs.99,000/-

was shown to be withdrawn from his account, whereas, no such

withdrawal was made by the complainant. The complainant informed

OP No.1 on the same day regarding the debit entries, but it did not

reverse the said debit entries. The complainant also submitted a

cardholder dispute form dated 18.09.2019 with OP No.1, who informed

the complainant that the debit entries were made through 'Lakshmi

Vilas Bank UPI App', whereas the complainant never used this UPI

App and he had not shared any OTP of this App with anyone.

Moreover, the complainant had never ever downloaded the said app

on his mobile set. The account statement provided by OP No.1

revealed that online payment bank of Paytm was used to withdraw

money from the bank account of the complainant. Despite request

made by the complainant through email, OP No.3 did not provide

details i.e. name, address, mobile number, PAN etc. of the account

holder of OP No.3, who used its platform. OP No.3 remained negligent

and allowed its platform to carry out unauthorized transactions. OPs

did not take suitable action nor they coordinated with each other to

refund the amount to the complainant. No tangible efforts have been

made by OP No.1 to track down the culprit and to ensure refund of

money in the account of the complainant. Alleging deficiency in service

on the part of the OPs, the complainant filed the complaint before FA No. 511 of 2022 4 District Commission and sought refund of Rs.99,000/- on account of

original amount of claim along with interest at the rate of 12%,

Rs.2,00,000/- as compensation for harassment, mental agony and

helplessness and Rs.20,000/- as litigation expenses. 4. Upon notice, OPs No.1 & 2 appeared through counsel and

filed written version raising preliminary objections, which are not

required to be reproduced here for the sake of brevity. On merits,

OPs No.1 & 2 stated that the complainant had a saving account with it

and it provided ATM/Debit Card facility to the complainant. However,

the password of the account of the complainant was only known to him

and no one could use or withdraw the amount from the account of the

complainant without sharing the password by him to anyone. OPs

further stated that complainant approached OP No.1 on 18.09.2019

and the employee of the OP bank duly attended and informed the

complainant that the amounts were deducted from his account through

UPI App to Lakshmi Vilas Bank. The complainant himself was a

negligent person, who shared his password and the said person after

using the password, withdrew the alleged amount. There was no fault

on the part of the OPs No.1 & 2. After denying the other averments

made in the complaint, the OPs No.1 & 2 prayed for dismissal of the

complaint. 5. OP No.3 also filed written version taking preliminary

objections. It was stated that the issues raised were in relation to

Paytm Bank/Wallet account maintained by Paytm Payments Bank

Limited and the grievance of the complainant was against OPs No.1 & FA No. 511 of 2022 5 2, where the account of the complainant had been maintained. The

complainant neither availed any sort of service from OP No.3 nor he

came under the ambit of the definition of "Consumer". OP No.3

received an email from Cyber Investigation & Technical Support Units,

Barnala dated 18.09.2019 regarding the said transaction and in

compliance thereof, it shared transaction details with the police. The

complainant had also approached OP No.3 on 21.09.2019 and it also

shared the transaction statement. It was also informed to the

complainant that amount utilized in the said transactions could not be

refunded as the same had been consumed by Beneficiary Bank

accounts of OP No.3. The transactions reported by the complainant

were UPI transactions whereby money had been transferred to several

Paytm Bank account numbers from UPI linked bank account of the

complainant maintained with OPs No.1 & 2. There was no deficiency

in service on the part of OP No.3. After denying the other averments

made in the complaint, OP No.3 prayed for dismissal of the complaint

qua it. 6. The parties led evidence before the District Commission in

support of their respective contentions and the District Commission

after going through the record and hearing learned counsel for the

parties, allowed the complaint of the complainant, vide impugned order

as above. Aggrieved with the same this appeal has been filed by the

appellants /OPs No. 1 & 2. 7. We have heard learned counsel for the appellants and

respondent No.2 and gone through the written arguments submitted by

the parties as well as record on the file. 8. The learned counsel for the appellants has vehemently

contended that the District Commission has not appreciated the facts

and circumstances of the case in right perspective and the findings

recorded by it are based on mere surmises, conjectures and

assumptions and thus are not tenable in the eyes of law. The District

Commission has failed to appreciate the fact that the complaint was

pre-mature and not maintainable as the complainant himself admitted

that he has been cheated by unknown persons and moved an

application before SSP, Barnala, which is still pending. The

transactions under dispute were carried out through the channel of

'Unified Payments Interface'(UPI), which is an instant payment system

developed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), an

RBI regulated entity. UPI is built over the IMPS infrastructure and

allows to instantly transfer money between any two parties' bank

accounts. A customer needs to register with a Payment Service

Provider (PSP) in order to use UPI to transfer funds and if any

transaction had occurred due to breach of system, it would mean that

there was breach of the largest payment interface in the country, which

is run by NPCI and also that of the PSP, which is 'Luxmi Vilas Bank'.

The PSP bank is entirely accountable for loss of respondent No.1, but

he himself failed to implead the said Bank as a party to the present

complaint. The learned counsel further argued that the District

Commission has failed to observe that a customer, who wishes to FA No. 511 of 2022 7 initiate any transaction through UPI, can put in request for fund

transfers from their UPI linked bank accounts using their unique VPA

handle and entering UPI PIN, which is generated and fixed by

customer himself. The transactions done through UPI can only be

performed by person who is aware of UPI credentials as well as the

UPI PIN, which shall purportedly be personalized and fixed by the

respondent No.1/complainant himself. He must have shared the UPI

PIN with someone else and thereafter the amount was withdrawn from

his account. The UPI fund can be transferred by entering the self-

generated UPI PIN without the requirement of OTP. The allegation of

the appellant that he had not received OTP with respect to the

disputed transactions and the same being fault of OPs' banking

system is therefore a mere conjecture and made to mislead this

Commission. Without access to mobile phone having the SIM, which

is registered with the bank account of the appellant, it is not possible to

link his account to any UPI App of any PSP. Alleging no deficiency on

the part of OPs No.1 & 2, the Ld. Counsel prayed for acceptance of

the present appeal by setting aside the impugned order. 9. On the other hand, the respondent No.1/complainant, in its

written arguments has stated that the District Commission has

appreciated the facts and circumstances of the present case in right

perspective and has applied and interpreted the law on the points

involved correctly. The impugned order is well reasoned and is liable

to be upheld. He further stated that the unauthorized transactions took

place due to breach of security system of the appellants and it is the

foremost duty of appellants to keep its system safe and secure. The FA No. 511 of 2022 8 complainant neither shared password of his bank account login nor

any OTP received on his mobile phone/email. Alleging deficiency in

service on the part of the appellants/OPs, the complainant prayed for

dismissal of the present appeal. 10. The learned counsel for the respondent No.2 argued that

the grievance of the appellants categorically lies with respondent

No.1/complainant, who is having his bank account with them. The said

transactions reported by respondent No.1/complainant were UPI

transactions, whereby money had been transferred to several Paytm

Bank accounts numbers from UPI linked bank account of the

complainant maintained with appellants. It provided UPI facility to its

customers in accordance with the UPI guidelines, circulars and/or

regulations issued by the RBI and/or NPCI from time to time. The role

of respondent No.2 in UPI facility being provided, is limited to providing

a platform to perform UPI transactions. It has no role whatsoever in

performance of transactions done through UPI facility. The learned

counsel further argued on the similar lines as stated in the written reply

and prayed for dismissal of the present appeal qua respondent No.2. 11. We have given thoughtful consideration to the contentions

raised by the parties. 12. The admitted facts of the case are that respondent

No.1/complainant is having his saving account with OP No.1 and it is

also proved on record that Rs.99,000/- had been debited from the

saving account on 17.09.2019 (Ex.C-2) by way of UPI transactions.

The complainant alleged that he informed OP No.1 on the same day FA No. 511 of 2022 9 regarding debit entries and also submitted Cardholder Dispute Form

dated 18.09.2019 (Ex.C-4) before HDFC Bank. The complainant

alleged that debit entries were made through Lakshmi Vilas Bank UPI

App and he sent email to OP No.3 (Ex.C-6), seeking name, address,

mobile number and PAN etc. of the account holders, who had used

their platform for deducting the said amount but it did not respond. The

OPs did not take any suitable action nor coordinated with each other to

refund the amount to the complainant. Alleging deficiency in service

on the part of the OPs, the complainant filed consumer complaint

before the District Commission, which was allowed against OPs No.1

& 2 vide impugned order, as above. Aggrieved with the same, present

appeal has been preferred by appellants/OP No.1 & 2. 13. The grievance of the appellants is that the District

Commission has wrongly accepted the complaint against them, on the

basis of mere conjectures and surmises, whereas there is no fault or

negligence on the part of the appellants. On the other hand, the case

of the complainant is that the unauthorized transactions took place due

to breach of security system of the appellants/OPs and it is the

foremost duty of appellants/OPs to keep its system safe and secure. 14. The present appeal revolves around determination of

negligence; whether the appellants/OPs No.1 & 2 (Bank); respondent

No.1/complainant or respondent No.2/OP No.3(Paytm payment bank),

were responsible for the alleged negligence on account of the said UPI

transactions because of which there have been debit entries from the

saving bank account of respondent No.1/complainant. FA No. 511 of 2022 10 15. At the outset, we would like to place reliance on the

Circular DBR.No.Leg.BC. 78/09.07.005/2017-18 dated 06.07.2017

issued by the Reserve Bank of India regarding limiting liability of

Customers in Unauthorized Electric Banking Transactions. The

relevant part of the said circular is reproduced as under:- Any loss occurring after the reporting of the
 unauthorised transaction shall be borne by the bank. (ii) In cases where the responsibility for the
 unauthorised electronic banking transaction lies
 neither with the bank nor with the customer, but lies
 elsewhere in the system and when there is a delay (of
 four to seven working days after receiving the
 communication from the bank) on the RBI,DBR,CO - 4 -
 continuation sheet part of the customer in notifying
 the bank of such a transaction, the per transaction FA No. 511 of 2022 11 liability of the customer shall be limited to the
 transaction value or the amount mentioned in Table 1,
 whichever is lower." It is not in dispute that an amount of Rs.99,000/- has been withdrawn

from the saving bank account of respondent No.1/complainant through

UPI transactions on 17.09.2019. The same had been duly informed to

the appellants through Cardholder Dispute Form dated 18.09.2019

(Ex.C-4) and email (Ex.C-5) as well as respondent No.2 through email

(Ex.C-6) within the specified time period. The version of the

appellants/Bank is that there is no deficiency in service on their part as

the said transactions have taken place by using the mobile payment

application through a Unified Payment Interface (UPI) i.e. Paytm app.

Respondent No.1/complainant has already impleaded Paytm Bank in

his complaint as OP No.3 and allegations of negligence have also

been levelled against it. In this regard, we are of the opinion that any

user, using the UPI through its applications, such as Google pay,

Amazon pay, Phone pay and Paytm etc. has to first complete the KYC

(Know your Customer) and then only he is allowed the use of UPI,

which is registered with his mobile number. The UPI can be used only

if the user is using the same mobile number that has been registered

in the bank with which he is able to access his bank account. After

registering the UPI with the said mobile number, only then the user

can use the mobile applications for transferring money, making the

payment or doing any kind of shopping, both physically or on-line. The

authentication process is only under the control of the user and no one

else, unless it has been accessed by an unauthorized third party. In

the light of the said facts, we have no hesitation to conclude that use of FA No. 511 of 2022 12 UPI mobile application is fortified by multilayer protection and the

appellants/Bank have no role to play in such a transaction done

through registered mobile number. The Bank can only swing into

action by blocking the said account when it has been brought to its

notice and it is to cooperate and help the customer as well as police

authorities for tracing the unauthorized transactions. It is not the case

of respondent No.1/complainant that the appellants/Bank failed to do

its duty when he informed it regarding the alleged transactions.

Accordingly, we are of the considered view that there is no

negligence/deficiency in service on the part of the appellants-Bank.

The District Commission has failed to consider the said aspect, as

such, the impugned order is liable to be set aside against the

appellants. 16. This leads us to the next step i.e. to fix the accountability

for the alleged transactions. In the present case, it is not in dispute that

respondent No.1/complainant had lost his money through UPI

transactions on Paytm app. The respondent No.1/complainant has

also reported the matter to the police authorities, who investigated the

matter and registered an FIR, which is duly placed on record by

respondent No.1/complainant along with the written arguments. From

the perusal of said FIR, it reveals that after inquiry conducted by the

police authorities, a prima facie offence has been made out against

some persons/actual beneficiaries of the fraudulent transactions;

namely, Manira Khatun and Samit Das, who belong to the state of

West Bengal. Accordingly, it is safe to conclude that respondent

No.1/complainant's phone was hacked by some third party and it is FA No. 511 of 2022 13 beyond the control of the bank to protect the account. The perpetrators

had gained access to the complainant's account through Paytm App-

OP No.3. Whatever might be the modus operandi adopted by the

fraudsters, the fact remains that it was not the complainant who had

revealed the details of his PIN number or other details to the fraudsters

either knowingly or unknowingly. It is pertinent to mention here that the

RBI has also issued a circular dated 04.01.2019 vide

No.DPSS.CO.PD.No.1417/02.14.006/2018-19 and it is applicable to all

Authorized Non Bank Prepaid Payments Instrument Issuers for

Customer Protection/limiting the liability of customers in unauthorized

Electronic Payment Transactions through Prepaid Payment

Instruments(PPIs) issued by Authorized Non-banks. The relevant

portion of the said circular is reproduced as under:- Customers must also have 24´7 access via website, SMS, e-
 mail, or a dedicated toll-free helpline number. 2. Customers must be advised by the PPI issuers to notify
 the PPI issuer of any unauthorized electronic payment
 transaction at the earliest, and that the longer the customer
 takes to notify the PPI issuer, the higher will be liability of the
 customer. A direct link for lodging complaints, with a specific option to
 report unauthorized transactions, must be provided by PPI issuers
 on their mobile app, home page of website, or any other evolving
 acceptance mode. PPI issuers must ensure to resolve the
 complaint within 90 days from the receipt of the complaint. FA No. 511 of 2022 14 1. PPI issuers should have in place a loss/ fraud reporting
 system to send immediate response (including auto-response)
 to customers acknowledging the complaint. All the relevant
 data pertaining to time and date of deliveries and receipt of
 customer response must also be recorded within the PPI
 issuers' systems. 2. Limited Liability of a customer: b) Respondent No.2/OP No.3 is further directed to
 pay composite amount of Rs.15,000/- to the
 complainant as compensation for mental tension
 and harassment as well as litigation expenses FA No. 511 of 2022 18 21. The compliance of the order shall be made by respondent

No.2/OP No.3 within a period of two months from the date of receipt of

certified copy of the order. 22. The appellants had deposited a sum of Rs.69,410/- at the

time of filing of the appeal. This amount alongwith interest, which has

accrued thereon, if any, shall be remitted by the registry to the

appellants/OP No.1 & 2 by way of crossed cheque/demand draft after

the expiry of limitation period in accordance with law. 23. The appeal could not be decided within the stipulated

period due to heavy pendency of Court cases. (H.P.S. MAHAL)
 PRESIDING JUDICIAL MEMBER

 (KIRAN SIBAL)
 MEMBER
November 06, 2024
(Dv)