DATED : NOVEMBER 26, 2025

 PER COURT : When Anil Bhaskar Padgalmal introduced us to him, Santosh

Chandrakant Katare checked my daughter's xerox documents and got

his son Bharat a job in the Forest Department and got his daughter

Gatika a job in the Railway Department. I told them to come here on

21.08.2025 to the forms for both of them. After that, on 21.08.2025

at around 12.30 p.m., I, my son Bharat, daughter Gatika and Anil

Bhaskar Padghalmal went to Sher-e-Punjab Hotel in VT Station area

in Mumbai. After some time, Santosh Chandrakant Katare came there

and asked me to go to the reservation department in the Railway
 910-aba-1716-2025.odt (3) Department Training Center building along with my daughter Gatika.

An unknown person came there and filled the job form of my

daughter and took a Xerox copy of the document. After that, Santosh

Chandrakant Katare asked me to go to the reservation department in

The Railway Department Training Center building along with my

daughter Gatika. Daughter Gatika was asked to go to St. George's Hospital

for medical examination and there an unknown person filled out a

form from her and asked her to bring urine and smoke in a bottle for

medical examination and after that, he said that he will get the

medical examination done now you go back to Sher-e-Punjab Hotel.

After that, at around 5.00 p.m., I discussed with Santosh Chandrakant

Katare and sent Rs.1,80,000/- from my sister-in-law Renuka

Vishwanath Jadhav's Google Pay No. 1870034071 to Santosh

Chandrakant Katare's Google Pay No. 9011579169 and daughter

Gatika sent Rs. 20,000/- from her Mobile No. 8830711852. Santosh

Chandrakant Kátare gave us a cheque of Rs. 2,00,000/- from ICICI

Bank for trust. After that, on 26.08.2025 at 2.00 p.m. around 10:00

a.m., my daughter Gatika and I arrived at the gate of St. George

Hospital. Anil Bhaskar Padgalmal, Sukumar Pawar and Santosh

Chandrakant Katare arrived there. After that, an unknown person said

to my daughter that the work of ordering the job of Railway

Commercial Clerk Class 3 is going on. I will give you the order in 1
 910-aba-1716-2025.odt (4) hour. Now you give the remaining money. At that time, I gave Rs.

8,00,000/- in cash to Santosh Chandrakant Katare at the gate of St.

George Hospital. After that, I gave Rs. 3,00,000/-in cash to Santosh

Chandrakant Katare at the gate of Mantralaya to do the medical and

order work of my son Bharat. After that Santosh Chandrakant Katare

gave the job of Railway Commercial Clerk Class 3 to my daughter

Gatika. After that, when we examined the order, the officer's signature

was not seen on the said order. Therefore, when we took the said

order to the railway office at VT station, we came to know from the

office staff that the said order was fake. After that, when we cashed

the ICICI Bank cheque given by Santosh Chandrakant Katare on

29.08.2025, the said cheque bounced. Therefore, I became convinced

that the persons named 1) Anil Bhaskar Padghalmal 2) Santosh

Chandrakant Katare 3) Sukumar Pawar (full name not known) and

three unknown persons have gained my trust and cheated me by

giving my daughter a fake appointment letter of Commercial Clerk

Class 3 of the Railway Department. So I have come to Kotwali Police

Station today to file a complaint. 4. It is the submission of the learned counsel for the

applicant that in so far as the amount deposited in the account is

concerned, the applicant is ready to hand over back the amount and

as such custodial interrogation of the applicant may not be necessary.

It is his further submission that the amount of giving cash is merely a
 910-aba-1716-2025.odt (5) false allegation without there being any proof of the same being

handed over to the applicant. He further submits that though the

entire transaction has allegedly taken place in Mumbai, the

complainant has registered the F.I.R. at Ahilyanagar. The allegations

are only made to harass the applicant. One of the co-accused has

been released on bail. He states that the applicant is having no

criminal antecedents and he is ready to abide by any conditions that

may be imposed by this Court. The applicant may therefore be

released on bail. 5. As against this, the learned APP Mr. Ingole submits that

there are direct allegations in the name of the present applicant. The

applicant appears to be a prime accused in the job scams being run.

Out of Rs.18,00,000/- amount paid by the complainant to all the

accused persons, a huge amount of Rs.13,00,000/- is paid to the

present applicant by the complainant. The amount of Rs.2,00,000/- is

paid by way of UPI payment by the complainant in the account of the

present applicant. He, therefore, submits that in view of such job

scams emerging regularly in the State, the custodial interrogation of

the applicant is necessary to unearthed the entire conspiracy and also

to find out whether there are other persons involved in the scam. He,

therefore, submits that the applicant may not be released on

anticipatory bail. 910-aba-1716-2025.odt (6) 6. Mr. Kalyane, learned counsel appearing for the

complainant adopts the argument of the learned APP. Learned

counsel for the complainant submits that some cheques were given to

the complainant in lieu of the amounts which are already being taken

by the applicant. The cheques were presented at ICICI Bank, the

same were dishonored for insufficiency of funds. He, therefore,

submits that the applicant is a fraud and if released on bail, may

again indulge into identical offence and thereby dupe the citizens,

who are seeking government jobs. He prays that the application may

be rejected. 7. I have gone through the investigation papers made

available by the learned APP. There are statements recorded of the

complainant as well as his son and daughter, who have also

substantiated the allegations made in the F.I.R. by the complainant.

There are UPI transactions to substantiate the allegations made in the

F.I.R., which shows that Rs.1,80,000/- is paid through UPI by the

sister-in-law of the complainant and Rs.20,000/- is paid by his

daughter. There are direct allegations in the F.I.R. that the applicant

along with other co-accused have duped the complainant on the

promise of getting them a government job. The complainant falling

into the trap of promise made by the applicant for getting a job, paid

a huge amount to the applicant. In my opinion, custodial

interrogation of the applicant would be necessary to complete the
 910-aba-1716-2025.odt (7) investigation in all aspects, as one of the accused Anil Padgalmal has

induced the complainant. Hence, the application is rejected. 8. In so far as the submission made by the learned counsel

for the applicant that the entire transaction took place in Mumbai and

the F.I.R. is filed at Ahilyanagar is concerned, it is almost a settled law

that a criminal law can be set into motion at any of the place where

some of the cause of action arose. A careful reading of the F.I.R.

shows that some cause of action arose in the jurisdiction of

Ahilyanagar and therefore, in my opinion, the F.I.R. filed at

Ahilyanagar cannot be faulted with. However, these are prima facie

observations made to decide anticipatory bail application and the

same may not affect another proceedings. 9. Criminal Application No.3946 of 2025 filed for assist to

prosecution stands allowed and disposed of. (MEHROZ K. PATHAN, J.)

Mujaheed//