% 02.04.2024 1. This suit was filed by the plaintiff seeking a decree of permanent
 injunction against the defendants and all those acting for or on their behalf
 from manufacturing, selling, advertising, dealing in any manner with goods
 bearing registered trademarks of the plaintiff. All the defendants have been
 proceeded ex parte. Settlements have been arrived between plaintiff and
 defendant Nos.1-4. A decree is, therefore, sought by the plaintiff against
 defendant Nos.5-8. 2. The plaintiff is a company incorporated and existing under the laws of
 Netherlands, founded in 1997 and is wholly owned subsidiary of the Tommy
 Hilfiger Group. Plaintiff is engaged in designing and manufacturing high
 end apparels for men, women and children and other licensed products
 including accessories and footwear under the trademark 'TOMMY
 HILFIGER', named after the founder of the company and one of the world's
 leading designers for lifestyle brands. Sales figures which were claimed in

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/04/2024 at 02:01:19
 the plaint, in the year 2015, were in the range of 6.5 Billion USD. The
 plaintiff entered India in 2003, with a strategic licensing agreement with the
 Ahmedabad based Arvind Group, thereafter, their reach in India expanded. 3. The plaintiff has various registered trademarks in India including

 'TOMMY HILFIGER', 'TOMMY', 'TOMMY SPORT' and
 (the Flag Logo). The tabulation provided by the plaintiff and supported by
 evidence of certificates filed in that regard has been perused. The said
 registered trademarks in favour of the plaintiff are as under: 4. The plaintiff's concern was the use of their flag logo trademark
 represented as under which has acquired a long and continuous reputation in
 favour of the plaintiff and is identified as a source of the products as that of
 the plaintiff: 5. Counsel for the plaintiff has also pointed out to various orders passed
 by this Court to protect the trademarks of the plaintiff. These orders have
 been perused as well, by this Court. 6. The grievance was against various defendants who were discovered

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/04/2024 at 02:01:19
 through market surveys and independent investigators, found to be selling
 counterfeit products of the plaintiff. An ex parte ad interim injunction was
 granted in favour of the plaintiff and against defendants by this Court vide
 order dated 15th February, 2017 in the following terms: 7. Local Commissioners were also appointed by this Court to visit the
 premises of defendant Nos.1, 3, 4 and 5. Considering that defendant Nos.1-
 4 have already settled the matter with the plaintiff vide settlement agreements
 dated 19th January, 2018 and 20th March, 2019, the residual issue is only with
 relation to defendant Nos.5 -8. 8. Report of the Local Commissioner dated 23rd February, 2017 in relation
 to defendant No.5 has been perused. As per the report of the Local
 Commissioner, he visited the premises of defendant No.5 M/s Rajan Knitwear
 (Defendant no. 5) at G-37/38, Dadar Manish Market, Senapati Bapat Marg,
 Dadar West, Mumbai - 400028, which was a shop selling garments. As per
 the Local Commissioner's report, about 180 +25 of pieces of the counterfeit
 items were sealed and were handed on superdari to defendant No.5. No
 further detail was available in relation to stocks or the stocks registered.
 Further, no disclosure was also made by defendant No.5 as to the source of
 getting the said products. 9. It is noted that no Local Commission was executed for defendant

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/04/2024 at 02:01:19
 Nos.6-8. As regards defendant Nos.6-8, counsel for the plaintiff points out
 to the investigator's affidavit which states that defendant Nos.6-8 were
 engaged in wholesale business and were found to infringe the registered
 trademarks of the plaintiff and other international brands as well. However,
 as part of the suit documents, there is nothing on record to prove the said
 statement of the investigator. 10. In any event, taking holistic perspective in the matter, and considering
 these facts and circumstances stated above, the plaintiff shall be entitled to a
 decree in their favour in terms of Para 52(i), (ii) and (iii) against defendant
 Nos.5-8: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/04/2024 at 02:01:19
 distributors, and all others acting for and on their behalf from using
 trademarks, patterns, labels, logos or devices, which are identical or
 deceptively or confusingly similar to the Plaintiffs trademarks as
 mentioned in paragraph 16 of the Plaint or any similar trademark so
 as to misrepresent the quality/ origin of their goods and from taking
 unfair advantage of the Plaintiffs reputation and goodwill in the said
 trademarks or any similar trademark thereby causing dilution and
 tarnishment of the Plaintiffs abovementioned trademarks;" 11. In terms of damages and costs, counsel for the plaintiff has placed the
 statement of costs in the range of Rs.16.36 Lacs and has calculated damages
 towards amount of sale and loss of profit to the plaintiff at about
 Rs.59,04,000/- in respect of defendant No.5 on the basis of the 205 counterfeit
 products which were seized. Using this estimate, the same claim for
 damages is made against defendant Nos.6-8. 12. Counsel for the plaintiff also points out to the obstructive attitude
 adopted by defendant No.5 at the time of the execution of the Local
 Commission to press for his claim for damages. 13. In this view, two aspects need to be taken into account in respect of
 costs and damages which have been enunciated by this Court in Koninlijke
 Philips N.V. v. Amazestore , 2019 SCC OnLine Del 8198 as also in the
 decision in Inter Ikea Systems BV v. Sham Murari , 2018 SCC OnLine Del
 11221. 14. In Koninlijke Phillips (supra), this Court has stated as under: to the Plaintiff (v) Infringement which was Injunction + Costs + Aggravated damages
 deliberate and calculated (Compensatory + additional damages)
 (Gangster/scam/mafia) +
 wilful contempt of court. 42. It is clarified that the above chart is illustrative and is not to be read
 as a statutory provision. The Courts are free to deviate from the same
 for good reason." 15. The said decision was cited with approval also in Puma SE v. Ashok
 Kumar 2023 SCC OnLine Del 6764. 16. In Inter Ikea Systems BV (supra), the issue of damages has been dealt
 with inter alia in para 20 wherein reference to Hindustan Unilever Limited
 v. Reckitt Benckiser India Limited, ILR (2014) 2 Del 1288 was made. It has
 been noted that the Courts have upheld the procedure of using rough and ready
 calculation for award of damages. 17. Reference was also made to the Delhi High Court Intellectual Property
 Rights Division Rules, 2022 in particular Rule 20 which provides a basis for
 assessment of damages, as under: In the computation of damages, the Court may take the assistance of an
 expert as provided for under Rule 31 of these Rules." 18. Taking a holistic perspective keeping in account the facts and
 circumstances as noted above, the following points may be necessary to
 appreciate as regard these defendants: Counsel for the plaintiff states that he was not an innocent
 infringer but also there is no evidence on record that he was a
 repeated-knowing infringer. Using the tabulation of Koninlijke
 Phillips (supra), at best the defendant No.5 will be considered as
 a 'first-time knowing infringer' and the proportionate award in
 that regard in view would be of injunction and partial costs. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/04/2024 at 02:01:20 (ii) As regards defendant Nos.6-8, there is no evidence on record to
 state as to what the nature of quantity of goods were available
 with them and in what capacity. However, even taking the
 investigator's affidavit on face value, they would have to be
 burdened with an injunction, as well as, partial costs considering
 they have not appeared before the Court at any stage despite
 notice. 19. Accordingly, considering these circumstances and that the costs of
 Rs.16.36 Lacs approximately have been stated by the plaintiff, it would be
 appropriate if the defendants are burdened with certain costs. The
 settlements with defendant Nos.1-4 were settled for amounts of Rs.1.5 Lacs
 with defendant Nos.3 and 4, and Rs.25,000/- with defendant No.1. 20. In this view of the matter, partial costs are awarded in favour of the
 plaintiff to be paid by defendant Nos.5-8, of Rs.2.5 Lacs each, to the plaintiff. 21. Accordingly, the decree be passed in terms of the injunction, as directed
 above, as well as, in regard to the costs as determined above by the Court. 22. Decree-sheet be drawn up accordingly. 23. Suit is disposed of. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed
 of. 24. Order be uploaded on the website of this Court. ANISH DAYAL, J
 APRIL 2, 2024/MK/ig

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/04/2024 at 02:01:20