1. The petitioner seeks grant of regular bail in a case registered vide FIR No.

 30 dated 13.3.2021 under Sections 406 , 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 / 120-B IPC

 at Police Station Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) Ludhiana, District

 Ludhiana. 2. The FIR was registered at the instance of Principal Commissioner, Goods

 and Services Tax Commissionerate, Ludhiana wherein it is alleged that three

 firms namely M/s La Mode Fashions, M/s Decent Fashions and M/s Murari

 Enterprises indulged in preparing fake invoices and availed Input Tax Credit

 (ITC) and its monetization through refunds. Accordingly, the office of the

 complainant conducted an investigation and found that Tarun Kumar

 (petitioner), Ankur Garg- Chartered Accountant, Rakesh Arora and Partners

 of the firms i.e. Rajesh Kumar, Mrs. Shreya Aggarwal and Rakesh Kumar

 who are partners of M/s La Mode Fashions, M/s Decent Fashions and M/s

 1 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 14-02-2022 21:46:50 ::: 2 CRM-M-42142-2021 (O&M)

 Murari Enterprises, conspired with each other for committing the fraud. It

 was alleged that Tarun Kumar (petitioner) in connivance with his said co-

 accused, prepared fake invoices of the said firm amounting to ` 158 crores

 and fradulently availed Input Tax Credit of ` 21.60 crores from the Govt. It

 was further revealed that Tarun Kumar (petitioner) was a Computer Operator

 and he in connivance with his co-accused, forged the identity of the persons;

 forged PAN Cards, Aadhar Cards etc. in order to create fake firms. 3. It is further the case of prosecution that dummy identity of co-accused

 Rajesh Kumar was prepared by Tarun Kumar (petitioner) as fake Ajay Gupta

 son of Naresh Gupta and fake PAN Card and Aadhaar Card of fake Ajay

 Gupta was prepared and then Rajesh Kumar impersonated as Ajay Gupta.

 Similarly fake identity of one Shreya was created by the petitioner in the

 name of Shreya Aggarwal C/o Atul Kumar, Advocate and fake Aadhaar Card

 in the name of Shreya Aggarwal containing fake address was prepared and

 thereafter submitted those fake documents with the department for obtaining

 GST Registration. It was further revealed that Rakesh Arora in connivance

 with Ankur Garg- Chartered Accountant played an active role in creating the

 fake firms and forging fake identities, getting those fake firms registered

 with the GST Department, filing fake GST returns and availing Input Tax

 Credit of ` 21.60 crores from the government. 4. The learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that lodging of the

 present FIR is an absolute misuse of process of law and also constitutes

 double jeopardy inasmuch as a verbatim same complaint has already been

 filed by the Inspector (Preventive) CGST Commissionerate, Ludhiana in

 which the petitioner was granted bail vide order dated 18.5.2021 passed by

 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 14-02-2022 21:46:50 ::: 3 CRM-M-42142-2021 (O&M)

 the Court of learned Additional Sessions Judge, Ludhiana (Annexure P-1).

 It has been submitted that the petitioner remained in custody for about 6

 months in the aforesaid complaint and after grant of bail, the present FIR

 was lodged on absolutely identical allegations in which he has been in

 custody now since the last about 8 months. The learned counsel has further

 submitted that in any case he cannot be said to be a beneficiary of the

 alleged refund of ` 21.60 crores availed as Input Tax Credit and was not part

 of the alleged scam. It has been submitted that he had been running a cyber

 cafe and had been extending services of internet connectivity, photocopying,

 scanning, printing etc. to all its customers and was not expected to make

 enquiry from each and every customer pertaining to the documents sought to

 be photocopied, scanned etc. 5. Opposing the petition, the learned State counsel has submitted that the

 petitioner was part and parcel of the larger conspiracy and that it was only

 with his active participation that the entire fraud could be committed as he

 had been making forged identities of PAN card, Aadhar Cards for the

 accused and other persons involved. The learned State counsel has,

 however, not disputed that complaint pertaining to similar allegations is also

 pending against the petitioner. He has, however, submitted that a complaint

 under provisions of CGST and an FIR pertaining to offences under Sections

 406 , 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 / 120-B IPC can continue simultaneously though

 the forgery etc. may be part of the larger scam of refund of Input Tax Credit.

 The learned State counsel has, however, informed that apart from the present

 case and the complaint under GST, the petitioner is not involved in any other

 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 14-02-2022 21:46:50 ::: 4 CRM-M-42142-2021 (O&M)

 case and the petitioner has been behind bars since the last about 8 months in

 the present case. 6. I have considered rival submissions addressed before this Court. 7. It may be debatable as to whether the role of the petitioner is confined to

 preparing forged documents at the instance of the co-accused or as to

 whether he was part and parcel of the larger conspiracy pursuant to which a

 loss of ` 21.60 crores was caused to the government on account of availing

 Input Tax Credit on the basis of forged documents. Without commenting

 any further on the merits of the case and while noticing that the petitioner

 has been behind bars since the last about 8 months and otherwise has a clean

 record, the petition is accepted and the petitioner is ordered to be released on

 regular bail on his furnishing bail bonds/surety bonds to the satisfaction of

 learned trial Court/Chief Judicial Magistrate/Duty Magistrate concerned.