V. KAMESWAR RAO, J

 I.As. 2460/2018 and 14173/2018 1. By this order I shall decide two applications bearing I.A.
 2460/2018 filed by the plaintiff under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and
 2 read with Section 151 of CPC as well as I.A. 14173/2018 filed
 by the defendant under order XIIIA read with Section 151 of
 CPC seeking a summary judgment against the plaintiff. 2. The suit has been filed by the plaintiff for permanent
 injunction against the defendant and its agents from infringing its
 trade marks, passing off, unfair trade practice, delivery-up of
 materials/products, damages as well as to declare the plaintiff's CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 1 of 63 mark as a well-known trade mark. 3. It is averred that the plaintiff is a non-stock corporation
incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia,
USA having its registered office at 915 East High Street,
Charlottesville, VA 22902 United States of America. It was
established to serve as a global membership organization of
financial analysts, portfolio and investment manager and other
similar investment professionals, educators and supervisors
thereof (hereinafter, "the Investment Professionals"). 4. It is the case of the plaintiff, it first conducted in India the
CFA examination in 1981. It is also stated that the plaintiff is the
successor-in-title and interest to the Institute of Chartered
Financial Analysts (ICFA) that was founded in 1959 by the
Financial Analysts Federation (FAF) that was incorporated in
1962 in Charlottesville, Virginia, USA with the objective of
developing and administering a certification program for
investment professionals, where under qualified candidates who
pass three levels of examinations and meet other experience and
professional standards requirements are awarded the right to use
the Chartered Financial Analyst or CFA designation. Established
in 1986 under the name Financial Analysts Programs, the
plaintiff changed its name to Association for Investment
Management and Research (AIMR) in 1990. In 1990, ICFA and
FAF combined and became subsidiaries of the plaintiff. The
plaintiff then entered into a co-operative operating agreement
with ICFA and FAF, where under the plaintiff was granted the
exclusive license to administer the CFA certification program CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 2 of 63 worldwide, including in India. With effect from June 1, 1999,
ICFA merged with and into the plaintiff and, by virtue of the said
merger, all properties owned by ICFA or any proceedings
pending by or against ICFA were deemed to have been
transferred to, vested in, and to be continued by the plaintiff.
With effect from May 2004, the plaintiff underwent a further
change of name to 'CFA Institute' which is the current name
under which it is known today. 5. It is the case of the plaintiff that the marks 'Chartered
Financial Analyst' and 'CFA' were first coined and used
internationally in 1963. The 'CFA' and 'Chartered Financial
Analyst' designations are recognized worldwide as symbols of
high integrity and professional excellence by investment
professionals, employers, educators, regulators, government
bodies and agencies, and the public. 6. It is averred that candidates who seek the CFA charter
from the plaintiff must pass a series of three six-hour
examinations, covering, inter alia the fields of accounting,
economics, securities analysis and asset portfolio management,
and must have at least four years of acceptable work experience
as a financial analyst. Finally, candidates must demonstrate their
good character and integrity by submitting three character
references, and must comply at all times with the Code of Ethics
and Standards of Professional Conduct of the plaintiff. Upon
successful completion of the plaintiffs' rigorous application and
examination program, candidates are awarded the right to use the
professional designation 'Chartered Financial Analyst' or 'CFA'. The 'CFA' and 'Chartered Financial Analyst' designations are
recognized worldwide as symbols of high integrity and
professional excellence by investment professionals, employers,
educators, regulators, government bodies and agencies, and the
public. Individuals who have been granted the CFA charter and
the right to use the CFA Marks are recognized as having achieved
an unparallel level of education and knowledge in the
fundamental principles of financial analysis. 7. It is the case of the plaintiff that it currently has a
membership of over 146,700 investment professionals in 140
countries (all of which periodically receive materials branded
with the CFA trademarks), including more than 110,000 CFA
charter-holders. Specifically in India, the Plaintiff conducted the
first CFA examination in 1981 in Mumbai. In India the exam is
offered at test centres located in various cities. It is also stated
that the plaintiff has a fast-growing membership and candidate
base outside North America, especially in Asia including India.
Indeed, a June 2017 press clipping indicated that 188,915
candidates worldwide registered for Level I, II and III June 2017
CFA exams in 91 countries. This represents a 9 percent increase
in registrations compared to June 2016.Regionally, the Asia
Pacific region continues to be the largest source of candidates
with 48 percent of the total registered for the June 2017 exam
coming from the Asia Pacific region. In India around 1.87 lacs
students enrolled for the CFA program examination in India for
the period 2006 to 2017. However, due to the rigor of the exams,
only a small percentage of candidate worldwide complete all the CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 4 of 63 requirement to obtain the CFA designation. Currently, there are
2204 charter-holders residing in India. Additionally, plaintiff has
20 societies across Asia, including Indian Association of
Investment Professionals doing business as CFA Society India
with approx. 1,938 members established in April 2005. 8. It is averred that plaintiff today holds all rights, benefits
and interests in connection with an arising out of the CFA
certification program including all intellectual property rights
therein. 9. It is the stand of the plaintiff that it is the exclusive
proprietor of numerous CFA-formative marks, including CFA,
C.F.A., CFA Digest, CFA Institute, CFA Society and Chartered
Financial Analyst. It is also stated that CFA Marks are registered
in the United States and dozens of other countries and most of
these marks have been successfully used in over 200 countries for
a number of years. 10. The plaintiff has also setout details of its trademark
registration for the mark 'CFA' and / or pending applications in
respect of various CFA Marks, including the marks 'CFA
Institute' and 'Chartered Financial Analyst', 'CFA logo' in
various classes of goods and services relevant to its CFA
certification program, in India, as follows: 11. Thus, it is averred by the plaintiff that it is the exclusive
proprietor of numerous CFA formative marks, including CFA,
C.F.A., CFA Digest, CFA Institute, CFA Society and Chartered
Financial Analyst in Classes 9 (videotapes, audiotapes, CDs,
etc.), 16 (publication, printed material, etc.), 35 (association
services), 41 (educational services), 42 (association services). It
is also stated that the earliest registration in India dates back to
February 12, 1998 and the earliest claim of use dates to August
31, 1981. Besides, CFA Marks are registered in several countries
world wide including in UK, USA and EU. 12. To ascertain that it had presence on internet, it is stated
that the plaintiff obtained registration of domain name
<cfainstitute.org> <cfasociety.org> on November 30, 2006 and
has been hosting corresponding websites at www.cfainstitute.org
and www.cfasociety.org carrying updated information on the
history and heritage of the plaintiff as well as requisite
information pertaining to various programs provided by it to
enable users across the world to access the same. 13. It is further averred that it had invested substantial sums
of money in advertisements and sales promotions of its various
products and services under the CFA marks around the world
including India. Its expenses on print media as well as on digital
media internationally for the period 2008 to 2016 was around CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 10 of 63 USD 215 Million (INR 1,525 Crores approx.). It is also stated
that CFA designation is recognized by over 40 governmental
bodies and regulatory agencies throughout the world. In India the
CFA society has organized and continues to organize several
educational sessions, conferences and events involving industry
experts from all across India. 14. It is the case of the plaintiff that the reputation and
goodwill of the CFA Marks worldwide is reflected in the annual
revenues generated by the plaintiff. A tabulated statement for the
period 2012 to 2016 is as follows: 15. It is also the case that the plaintiff has been proactively
enforcing its exclusive rights in CFA Marks against any misuse
of its statutory or common law rights since 1963 (through legal,
actions, cease and desist letters, notices of oppositions before the
Trade Marks Registry etc.). It is also stated that the plaintiff has
been successful in protecting the plaintiff's rights and reputation
in its marks before various Courts and Tribunals in jurisdictions
throughout the world, including in India. It is pointed out in the
plaint that this Court vide its order dated August 04, 2006 noted
that "the marks CFA or CHARTERED FINANCIAL ANALYST CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 11 of 63 are distinctive marks and even though the words CHARTERED,
FINANCIAL and ANALYST are three generic and descriptive
terms, their use in the given sequence and on account of their use
for a long term, have acquired a secondary meaning and have
become a trade mark entitled to protection." 16. It is therefore, the case of the plaintiff that (a) the plaintiff
has exclusive rights in the CFA Marks by virtue of prior adoption
and use thereof; (b) pursuant to the long, continuous and
extensive use of the CFA Marks as aforesaid, high revenues and
the substantial expenditure incurred in the promotion and
advertisement worldwide, the CFA Marks are exclusively
associated with the plaintiff's certification program, apart from
being recognized as 'well-known trade mark' within the meaning
of Section 2(l)(zg) and 11(6) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999
(' Trade Marks Act ', for short). Therefore, no third party may be
allowed to operate use a mark that is confusingly similar so as to
ride upon the goodwill of the plaintiff's CFA Marks. 17. It is the case of the plaintiff that in May 2015, the plaintiff
came across to trademark applications filed by the defendant that
had been advertised in Trade Mark Journals. Details of these
marks as appeared in the Trade Mark Journals are as follows: The defendant also markets its goods and services in the same
trade channels. As such, consumers are likely to mistakenly
believe that the defendant is affiliated or connected with, or
otherwise authorized or sponsored by the plaintiff, thereby
misleading the consumers. It is also stated that the investigation
done by the plaintiff reveals that the defendant is using the mark
'BFA' as its tradename, as well as, as the name of a program
offered by it, including the award of 'BFA' mark as a
professional designation in the field of financial analysis and
investment management to be used in the identical manner as the
CFA designation. It is further stated that the defendant's
brochure also bears reference to the plaintiff's CFA program
while citing the additional subjects covered in the BFA program
as compared to CFA. Therefore, it is the case of the plaintiff that
the defendant is attempting to portray itself as an equivalent of
the plaintiff's CFA program in India and attempting to ride upon
the good will and reputation of the CFA program and the CFA
Marks by confusing the public through the adoption and use of a
confusingly similar designation. 19. The plaintiff thereafter, issued a cease and desist letter to
the defendant on June 02, 2015 and as part of the requisitions in
the notice, the plaintiff cautioned the defendant of the plaintiff's
legal rights and calling upon them to refrain from using the mark
'BFA' and to withdraw the afore mentioned pending trademark
applications. 20. It is averred that the plaintiff received a response dated
June 22, 2015 from the defendant refusing to comply with the
requisition in the cease and desist notice and further putting the
plaintiff to proof of the reputation of the CFA Marks. Owing to
the refusal of the defendant to resolve the matter amicably, the
plaintiff filed notices of opposition on July 20, 2015 to the trade

mark application no. 2657928 for the mark FINANCE FOR LIFE. , and
and trade mark application No.2657929 for the mark 'BFA' filed
by the defendant. The plaintiff further addressed a letter dated
July 24, 2015 offering the defendant to continue the use of

the mark 'BFA' as part of its logo FINANCE FOR LIFE provided that
the word 'BFA' is not used as a standalone mark, in order to
avoid potential confusion when the 'BFA' mark is used as a
designation in the identical manner to the CFA designation. The
defendant vide letter dated September 03, 2015 refused to agree
with the proposal and claimed that the marks 'CFA' and 'BFA'
are phonetically different. Proceedings before the concerned
Trade Mark Registrar are still ongoing. 21. It is alleged by the plaintiff in the suit as well as in this
application that the adoption and use of the mark BFA by the
defendant is deliberate and is calculated to give effect to its mala
fide motive to ride upon the enviable reputation and goodwill of
the plaintiff's well-known CFA Marks. Thus, it is the case of the
plaintiff that these acts are actionable in law as they constitute
infringement, passing off and unfair trade practice apart from
being an office under Sections 101 to 104 of the Trade Marks
Act. 22. To establish trademark infringement, it is the case of the
plaintiff that the mark 'BFA' is confusingly similar to the
plaintiff's CFA Marks, the only difference being the replacement
of the letter 'c' with 'b' (which letter immediately precedes 'c' in
the English language alphabet) in relation to financial education
services that are identical to the services offered by the plaintiff.
It is further stated that the use of the mark 'BFA' is confusingly
similar to the plaintiff's CFA Marks and appearance, sound,
meaning and commercial impression and the use of this mark by
the defendant in relation to services that are identical to those of
the plaintiff is bound to cause confusing or an association
amongst the purchasing public as well as members of trade as to
the origin of the said services, which amounts to intentional and
willful violation of the statutory rights of the plaintiff within the
meaning of Section 29 of the Trade Marks Act. 23. To establish passing off by defendant, it is stated that; (a)
plaintiff has along with its affiliate companies spent substantial
money in the marketing of the well known CFA Marks, resulting CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 16 of 63 in unparalleled goodwill and reputation so that anyone who sees
the CFA Marks, would associate the same with he plaintiff's
CFA program alone; (b) the defendant's use of the mark 'BFA' is
confusingly similar to the plaintiff's well known CFA Marks in
relation to identical services, has inherent in it a
misrepresentation to the consuming public that defendant under
the mark 'BFA' has an association or nexus with the plaintiff,
when it is not the case; and (c) such misrepresentation is not only
calculated to give unfair advantage to the defendant, and is likely
to cause damage to the plaintiff's exclusive propriety rights and
goodwill in the CFA Marks, but is also likely to cause monetary
loss to the plaintiff and plaintiff's business. 24. It is therefore, pleaded by the plaintiff that based on the
facts and circumstances encapsulated in the plaint as well as in
the application under Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2, prima facie
case in favour of the plaintiff exists as there is no plausible
justification for adoption of the mark 'BFA' by the defendant
except to ride upon the inviable and worldwide reputation of the
well known mark 'CFA' and plaintiff being the registered
proprietor of the CFA Marks, balance of convenience also lies in
favour of the plaintiff. It is also stated that plaintiff is likely to
suffer irreparable harm, injury and monetary compensation alone
would not be sufficient to redress the continuing harm resulting
from the acts of infringement being committed by the defendant.
Thus, the plaintiff is entitled to an order of ad-interim ex-parte
injunction to protect goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff as
well as its common law and statutory rights in the well-known CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 17 of 63 CFA Marks and to restrain defendant from deceiving and causing
grave loss and irreparable injury to the public at large. 25. Reply was duly filed by the defendant to I.A. 2460/2018.
It is stated that the defendant is a society-(Non-Profit
Organization) duly registered under the provisions of the Karnataka Societies Registration Act, 1960 , founded by Mr.
Vivek Kulkarni, IAS (Retd.) a former IT Secretary, Government
of Karnataka. The defendant has also been granted approval
under Section 80G (5) (vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, making
donations made to the defendant deductible from the tax liability.
It is stated that the defendant society was established as a not for
profit organization and for providing financial literacy services
through all sections of the society. 26. It is the case of the defendant that the plaintiff's claim
that the mark 'CFA' and the examination was first conducted in
the year 1981 in Mumbai and has been held annually ever since is
false as it is an admitted position that in 2007, the AICTE ('All
India Council For Technical Education', for short), the statutory
body for technical education in the Country, had debarred the
plaintiff from carrying out any such examination as according to
AICTE, the plaintiff had failed to abide by its guidelines. 27. It is averred by the defendant that the mala fide intent of
the plaintiff is demonstrated by the mere fact that the plaintiff has
failed to annex with the plaint or the application, the Counter
statement (TM-6) filed by the defendant dated November 26,
2015 and the reply dated February 09, 2016 to the Examination
Report dated January 19, 2015, with regard to the proceedings CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 18 of 63 pending before Registrar of Trade Marks. 28. It is further averred that the reference made by the
defendant in its brochure about plaintiff's program is a clear and
bona fide attempt on the part of the defendant to highlight the
differences between the two programs as well as the fact that
there is no association of any kind between the programs offered
by the plaintiff and the defendant. It is also stated that the use of
the term 'CFA' to identify the other program is not in the course
of trade but in a descriptive sense, which does not amount to
infringement or passing off. 29. It is the case of the defendant that owing to the
unexplained delay and laches in approaching this Court when
admittedly, the plaintiff has been aware of the defendant's mark
since 2015, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief. 30. It is the case of the defendant that being the proprietor
and the owner of a number of trade marks for its products and
services, including 'BFA', 'BFA' is an acronym used by the
defendant in relation to its nine months program / course, titled
'Banking Financial Analyst'. The acronym was adopted by the
defendant in the year 2009 for its business and has been
continuously used since adoption. The services rendered by the
defendant under the trademark 'BFA' relate to educational
institutions, Business Schools, providing education and training
mainly in finance and other financial affairs including area of
credit, investment and risk management. The defendant tabulated
the difference between the courses offered by it and the plaintiff
as under: of exam fee, training registration per level) Standard fee $
 fee & materials) 950level/US$ 1380 with late
 registration fee per level + $ 75
 Shipping fee + Membership fee
 $275/Annum
Mode of teaching Classroom sessions, Distance Education
 Harvard case studies. 31. It is the case of the defendant that the plaintiff has filed
the suit only to harass the defendant and that there is no similarity
or likelihood of confusion between the marks 'CFA' and 'BFA'
as alleged by the plaintiff. When the marks, compared as a whole
there is similarity neither visually nor phonetically. It is also the
case of the defendant that it is important to take into
consideration the class of the consumers / public towards whom
the relevant goods / services are aimed at. In the present case, the CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 21 of 63 services of the defendant being aimed at people who are highly
educated, there is no scope for confusion as alleged, neither has
the defendant received till date a single report / complaint or even
a query from any prospective applicant or members of public in
this regard. 32. It is the case of the defendant that owing to the quality of
services offered, the mark 'BFA' and its accompanying logo have
acquired significant amount of goodwill and reputation and that
the trade partners and the competitors have associated the mark
'BFA' along with its accompanying logo with the defendant
alone. Moreover, the defendant states that it has spent substantial
amount of money towards advertisement, promotion and
publicity of its mark 'BFA' and the accompanying logo. It is also
stated that clients of defendant have repeatedly acknowledged the
high-quality training and educational services provided by the
defendant. 33. It is the case of the defendant that there is a significant
difference in the courses / programs offered by the plaintiff and
the defendant as defendant's program is focused on Investment
Management, Credit Management and Risk Management
whereas, the program of the plaintiff is aimed at mastery towards
investment analysis and decision making skills which are needed
for a competitive career in global investment management
profession. 34. It is the case of the defendant that the fact that several
customers / students of defendant's BFA program had prior to
enrolling in the BFA program has also completed various levels CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 22 of 63 of plaintiff's CFA course, is further demonstrative of the fact that
there is no likelihood of confusion. Even some of the faculty
members are 'CFA' holders. 35. It is denied by the defendant that the terms
'CHARTERED FINANCIAL ANALYST' and 'CFA' were first
coined by the plaintiff's predecessor-in-interest and that the same
have become well-known marks within the meaning of Section
2(1)(zg) of Trade Marks Act. Moreover, it is stated that 'CFA' is
akin to a title or a professional qualification, such as a CA, LL.B.,
M.B.A etc, over which there can be no monopoly. It is also
stated by the defendant that the course or conduct of
examinations in India by the plaintiff is a very recent
phenomenon perhaps not prior to 2006 and that it is the admitted
case of the plaintiff that number of people actually holding /
carrying the plaintiff's qualification as on date is only 2204 and
in 2006, this number was only 10. 36. It is the case of the defendant that the plaintiff is not the
exclusive proprietor of numerous CFA formative marks including
CFA, C.F.A., CFA Digest, CFA Institute, CFA Society and
Chartered Financial Analyst and that even the accreditation
offered by the plaintiff is aimed at misleading the general public
of an association of some kind between the plaintiff and the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, a statutory authority
which is incorrect and cannot be permitted. It is also the case that
the mention of plaintiff's course in defendant's website as
'candidates with CFA are preferred' is only aimed at drawing a
clear distinction between the plaintiff's 'CFA' mark and the CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 23 of 63 defendant's 'BFA' program. It is further stated that even the
official Facebook page of the defendant claims that its BFA
program is 'similar to the American CFA program' which clears
any kind of confusion. Even the allegation of the plaintiff that
the defendant uses in its brochure, plaintiff's mark 'CFA' to ride
upon plaintiff's reputation is completely misconceived as the bare
perusal of the entire statement and the context thereof
demonstrates that it is bona fide on the part of the defendant to
highlight the differences between the two programs and the fact
that there is no association of any kind between the two. 37. It is the case of the defendant that there is no likelihood of
monetary loss of any kind to the plaintiff or plaintiff's business,
any damage to the plaintiff's rights and goodwill in the CFA
marks owing to the defendant's use of the mark 'BFA'.
Moreover, there is no infringement of the plaintiff's mark within
the meaning of Section 29 of the Trade Marks Act and no valid
cause of action in its claim for trade mark infringement or passing
off. According to the defendant, since there is no prima facie
case in favour of the plaintiff, balance of convenience is also not
in its favour and no irreparable / grave loss or injury would be
caused to the plaintiff or the public at large, plaintiff is not
entitled to an order of injunction restraining the defendant from
using the mark 'BFA' in any manner whatsoever. 38. Rejoinder was also filed on behalf of the plaintiff to the
reply of the defendant, wherein it is stated that even though, the
AICTE vide its order dated May 18, 2007 had directed the
plaintiff to cease all operations in India, this Court vide order CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 24 of 63 dated May 18, 2007 in W.P. (C) 4037/2007 was pleased to stay
the said order issued by AICTE. Even an appeal was preferred
by the plaintiff, being LPA No. 53/2008 against the order by the
learned Single Judge dismissing the writ petition. However,
during the pendency of the appeal, the Division Bench vide
interim orders dated May 2008, April 2009, March 2010 and
August 2011 permitted and allowed the plaintiff to conduct
examinations in India. Subsequently, an Executive Committee
formed by AICTE by its decision taken on March 20, 2012 held
that CFA program need not be regulated by AICTE and based on
this report, the Division Bench of this Court vide order dated
April 17, 2012 made an observation that order dated May 18,
2007 issued by the AICTE would not stand. 39. It is the case of the plaintiff that claim of the defendant
that 'CFA' marks of the plaintiff were not sighted in the
examination report issued by the Trade Mark Office while
examining the 'BFA' applications cannot be the test for the
comparison of marks. 40. It is the case of the plaintiff that defendant's claim of
honest adopter and concurrent user of the mark under Section 12 of the Trade Marks Act is not applicable as there has been blatant
dishonest adoption of the mark. It is the admitted case of the
defendant that it has been using the mark 'BFA' since 2009
subsequent to plaintiff's use of mark 'CFA' from 1963
internationally and 1981 in India and moreover, Section 12 of the
Trade Marks Act is only a provision enabling the Registrar of the
trade marks to permit registration of two or more similar marks CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 25 of 63 on certain conditions and limitations and cannot be construed as a
valid defence against a claim of trade mark infringement. 41. The defendant in its application being IA 14173/2018
filed under Order XIIIA of the CPC seeking summary judgment
has stated out that the expression 'CFA' forming the basis of
plaintiff's claim is not entitled to any trade mark status,
notwithstanding any registration by the Trade Mark registry,
being admittedly intended by the plaintiff to be a 'profession
designation' similar to FRCS, FRCP, MBA, MBBS, CA etc. and
hence, not indicative of any product or services. Defendant relies
upon the orders of this Court from earlier litigations to submit
that 'CFA' is not a trade mark or service mark but a designation
of a qualification that is achieved after partaking in exams
conducted by the plaintiff. In effect, any person who pays the
plaintiff fees and writes their test is entitled to call himself /
herself a CFA or Chartered Financial Analyst describing the
alleged profession qualification they have obtained. It is also
stated that the plaintiff apparently changed their name to CFA
Institute only in May 2004 and prior to this based on its own
admission, were operating under different identities. 42. It is further the case of the defendant that the plaintiff's
use of the expression 'CFA' was not continuous in India as stated
in paragraph 29. It is the case of the defendant that based on
plaintiff's own admission before Judicial authorities, it is not
providing any services mentioned under Class 41. Defendant
relies on the excerpts of submissions made on behalf of the
plaintiff in judgment in W.P.(C) 4037/2007, wherein it was stated CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 26 of 63 that the plaintiff is 'not conducting any program or education,
research and training in India' and claims that the plaintiff made
contrary submissions before the Trade Mark registry to secure
registration under Class 41. 43. It is further the case of the defendant that the trade mark
'BFA' is a recognized and permitted use of an acronym of the
name of the defendant Brickwork Finance Academy and
has been in continuous use since the year 2009 along with its

logo FINANCE FOR LIFE. It is also stated that there is no identity or visual
or phonetic similarity between the trade marks of the defendant
and the expression 'CFA' which is purportedly used as an
accreditation or logo by the plaintiff and relies upon a
comparative table as provided below. 44. Based on the above table, it is contended that there is no
scope or chance for any confusion as the target audience of the
plaintiff's courses are highly skilled professionals with prior
qualifications of graduate degrees in finance or Business CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 27 of 63 Administration or work experience in finance sector of at least
four years. Hence, there is no likelihood of such persons who
seem to have high level of intelligence and technical knowledge
specific to the trade ever being confused between plaintiff's
expression 'CFA' and defendant's mark. It is also stated that
even though both the programs fall under the same class of
services, both the programs differ drastically from each other as
plaintiff provides a certification / qualification, whereas the
defendant does not provide any such certification / qualification,
mode of instruction for defendant's program is class room based
whereas plaintiff's CFA program is conducted online / online
materials, and if a person fails in the 'BFA' exams, the individual
cannot partake in the exam again, which is not the case for
plaintiff's 'CFA' accreditation program. 45. It is also the case of the defendant that the plaintiff has
not made out a case to support its claim of passing off or actual
confusion by the use of defendant's mark apart from averments
regarding 'potential confusion'. 46. Reply to the defendant's application under Order XIIIA
CPC was duly filed by the plaintiff, wherein plaintiff reiterated its
case as laid down in the plaint, application under Order XXXIX
Rule 1 & 2 CPC as well as in the rejoinder and vehemently
objected to the defendant's prayer for a summary judgment under Order XIIIA of the CPC . SUBMISSIONS:- 47. Mr. Sanjeev Sindhwani, Ld. Sr. Counsel appearing for the
plaintiff, at the outset submits that plaintiff would be CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 28 of 63 willing to allow the defendant to use logo FINANCE FOR LIFE. provided
the defendant agrees not to use the standalone word mark 'BFA',
which proposal was declined by the learned counsel appearing for
the defendant. Mr. Sindhwani also agreed not to rely upon
certification trade mark registration under Class 36 as listed at
serial numbers (d) and (i) at paragraph 10. 48. It was submitted by Mr. Sindhwani that the mark 'CFA'
is infringed by the use of the mark 'BFA' by the defendant
under Section 29(2)(b) of the Trade Marks Act, as the mark BFA
was similar to the registered trademark 'CFA' of the plaintiff and
was being used in relation to identical services, being educational
services (which services are specifically covered under the
trademark registrations of the Plaintiff). It was contended by Mr.
Sindhwani that the marks were visually, structurally and
phonetically similar. It was also stated that the plaintiff has
established that the CFA marks are exclusively associated with
plaintiff and have come to be known as well-known marks and in
fact, this Court, upholding the plaintiff's rights in the CFA
Marks, had held that the mark CFA has acquired a secondary
meaning and has become a trade mark entitled to protection. 49. Mr. Sindhwani also stated that defendant on its website
and its brochure clearly makes references to plaintiff and the
CFA program, stating that 'BFA' is similar to 'CFA' and that
candidates with CFA qualification are preferred. It was claimed
by him that by making such references, the defendant CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 29 of 63 acknowledges and admits the reputation of the plaintiff in its
CFA Marks as well as by such references, the defendant
advertises and entices the public into believing that an association
exists between plaintiff and the defendant and their respective
CFA & BFA programs, when none exists. Conduct of the
defendant is thus clearly to trade off on the reputation of
plaintiff's well-known CFA Marks and this form of association is
known as injurious association and has been held to be violative
of plaintiff's right. In support of his submission, he has relied
upon a Division Bench judgment of this Court in B.K.
Engineering Company, Delhi vs. U.B.H.I. Enterprises (Regd.)
Ludhiana and another, AIR 1985 Delhi 210. 50. He further went on to rely upon a Supreme Court
judgment in the case of Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha vs.
Prius Auto Industries 2018 (73) PTC 1 (SC) and Laxmikant V.
Patel vs. Chetanbhat Shah 2002 (24) PTC 1 (SC), to contend
that actual confusion is not required to establish for infringement
or passing off. He has also relied upon the following judgments
to contend that Courts have been consistent in protecting
abbreviated / alphabetical marks from being infringed / passed off
/ diluted. 1. DPS World Foundation vs. Delhi Public School
 Society 2017 (70) PTC 263 (Del); 2. Aktiebolaget SKF vs. Rajesh Engineering
 Corporation 1996 PTC (16) Delhi; 3. Larsen and Toubro Ltd. vs. Lachmi Narain
 Trades 2008 (36) TC 223 (Del); 4. H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB vs. HM Megabrands
 Pvt. Ltd. 2018 (74) PTC 229 (Del); 5. The General Electric Company vs. Pyara Singh &
 Ors.;AIR 1974 PH 14 (DB) 6. Inter IKEA Systems BV vs. Annanya Gautam 2018 IXAD (Delhi) 237; 7. S. Mehar Singh vs. M.L. Gupta & Co. 1997 (17)
 PTC 660 (Del); 8. Hind Cutlery House vs. Malik Bartan Bhandar 2003 (26) PTC 344 (Del); 9. NIIT Ltd. vs. NIT 1996 (16) PTC 217 (Del); 10. Ram Kishan & Sons Charitable Trust vs. ILM
 Consulting Pvt. Ltd. 2017 (70) PTC 529 (Del); 11. Inter IKEA Systems BV vs. AKEA Furniture
 Soln., CS (COMM ) 500/2017, order dated July 31,
 2017. 51. He also submitted that the plaintiff has been conducting
the CFA examinations in India continuously and uninterruptedly,
denying the allegation made by the defendant that AICTE vide
order dated May 18, 2017 directed plaintiff to cease the
operation. In support of his contention, he has drawn the
attention of this Court to orders passed by the Coordinate Bench
in W.P.(C) 4037/2007 as well as orders of the Division Bench in
LPA 53/2008 in particular order dated April 17, 2012, wherein
observation was made by the Division Bench that order dated
May 08, 2007 issued by AICTE would not stand in terms of the
AICTE, Executive Committee order dated March 20, 2012. 52. It was also averred that the stand of the defendant that the
marks were not cited/reported in the examination report of the
defendant's mark by the Registrar, was not a test of comparison
between the both the marks. He further stated that the approval of
defendant's course/program by various other statutory authorities
(eg. SEBI, RBI, authorities under Income Tax Act etc.) for using
the mark 'BFA', were only for the limited purposes as completed
within their ambit, and that the right to use a name or mark was
soley governed by the specialized statute i.e., Trade Marks Act . In support of his submission he has relied on a Coordinate bench
judgment of this Court in Living Media India Limited v. Jitender
V Jain & Anr. , 2002 (25) PTC 61 (Del). 53. Further Mr. Sindhwani, while contesting the argument of
the defendant the stand of its honest adoption of the mark BFA,
stated that the defendant's admitted use of its mark 'BFA' since
2009 is subsequent to the plaintiff adoption /use of its mark
'CFA' since 1963 internationally and since 1981 in India and that
even honest adoption is not a defense to a claim of infringement
or passing off. In support, he has relied upon the Apex Court
judgment in Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhat Shah & Anr., 2002
(supra). 54. He submitted that the present case falls under the ambit
of Section 29(2) of the Trade Marks Act, which stipulates that a
mark which is similar to the registered mark and is used in
respect of identical similar services as that covered under the
registration would amount to infringement if such use is likely to
cause confusion or is likely to create an association with the CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 32 of 63 registered mark, and the test as per Section 29(2) is that of
'confusion' and 'association' and not that of 'deceptive
similarity'. The test of 'confusion' stands at a much lower
pedestal as compared to test of 'deception', as 'deception'
requires misrepresentation or making a false statement whereas
'confusion' could occur even when a person makes a true
statement. Insofar as term 'association' is concerned, Mr.
Sindhwani submitted that the term being not defined in the Trade
Marks Act , one has to go by the dictionary meaning of the word
'association' which means 'any group of people who have joined
together for a particular purpose', and it is his contention that
people/public may make association between CFA and BFA
even if they believe that the two courses are not the same.
Placing reliance on B.K. Engineering Company (supra) and Laxmikant V. Patel (supra), he stated that such injurious association
has been held as unfair by the Courts much prior to the same
receiving statutory recognition under the Trade Marks Act . Thus,
it was his submission that because of the close proximity with the
mark 'CFA', the consumers are likely to be confused or at-least
link an association between the marks 'CFA' and 'BFA',
amounting to infringement under Section 29 (2) of the Trade
Marks Act. To cement his stand, he refers to a Coordinate
Bench judgment of this Court in The Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. v. Sharekhan Ltd., 2015 (61) PTC (Del). He further
submitted that defendant is silent on the test as laid down in Section 29(2) and therefore it amounts to conceding to the
plaintiff's case of infringement under the said Section. 55. It was submitted by Mr. Sindhwani that the defendant's
stand/argument that owing to the educational/professional
qualifications of target audience for the 'CFA' and BFA
programs, they would be able to distinguish between the
respective courses of the parties is concerned, it would not hold
good as the Courts have repeatedly held that the mere fact that
the customers are sophisticated, knowledgeable does not rule out
the element of confusion. He also submitted, because of the
similarity between the two marks, there exists a likelihood of
initial confusion amongst the customers to mislead them into an
initial interest even though they discover at a later stage that the
two entities/marks are different and that this initial interest caused
by the initial confusion owing to the similarity of the marks
amounts to infringement and passing off. Moreover, it may entice
the public/target audience to think that defendant's BFA program
is a customized version for Indian students of the plaintiff's well-
known CFA program. He has relied upon of the Supreme Court
judgment in Baker Hughes v. Hiroo Khushlani , 2004 12 SCC
628, to support his submission. 56. It was contended by Mr. Sindhwani that the defendant's
claim of usage of plaintiff's 'CFA' mark in its website/ brochures
is not in trademark sense but in a descriptive manner to draw a
distinction between the marks as envisaged in Section 30 of the
Trade Marks Act, was never contested in the written statement
and the same is a new plea /stand taken at the stage of arguments. 57. Against the stand taken by the defendant that the
plaintiff's mark came into existence only in 2004 and that its has CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 34 of 63 not filed any document to evidence its goodwill, it was argued by
Mr. Sindhwani that the same was never disputed by the defendant
in its Written Statement nor were any averments made against the
stand taken by the plaintiff that its mark 'CFA' was a well known
mark within the ambit of Section 2(1)(zg) of the Trade Marks Act
and in fact defendant acknowledged the goodwill of the
plaintiff's well-known mark 'CFA' by stating that candidates
with CFA qualifications are preferred in brochures/website.
Moreover, defendant has also admitted that its revenue was
merely a fraction of plaintiff's revenue as well it was argued on
behalf of the defendant that relevant consumers know about CFA
and BFA and would not be confused. In other words, Mr.
Sindhwani argued that the defendant should be estopped from
arguing that the mark 'CFA' does not have any goodwill in India. 58. It was further submitted by Mr. Sindhwani that the
defendant has also applied for registration of the mark 'BFA' in
relation to a program which is similar to the CFA program,
having course content similar to the CFA program and having
attempted to monopolize the mark in relation to a program
similar to that of the plaintiff, the defendant cannot argue or take
a stand to claim that the mark 'CFA' cannot be monopolized. He
has relied on Automatic Electric Limited v. R.K. Dhawan , 77
( 1999) DLT 292, and Procter & Gamble Manufacturing
(Tianjin) Co. Ltd. v. Anchor Health & Beauty Care Pvt. Ltd. ,
2014 (59) PTC 421 (DLI) (DB); to contend that defendant cannot
be allowed to approbate and reprobate. 59. Mr. Sindhwani further submitted that plaintiff's CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 35 of 63 Trademark & Certification registrations for the CFA Marks are
valid and defendant has not challenged the same and that the
defendant's counsel did not even argue that the registrations for
the CFA Marks are invalid. He submitted that Section 31 of the
Trade Marks Act, creates a presumption as to the prima-facie
validity of the registered trademarks. Under Section 124 of the
Trade Marks Act, the validity of a registered trademark is
rebuttable only if the defendant satisfies to the court that the
registration in favour of the plaintiff is prima-facie invalid. If the
Court is satisfied that the plea of invalidity of the plaintiff's
registered mark is tenable, then the Court will frame an issue in
that regard and allow the defendant to approach the IPAB to seek
cancellation of the Plaintiff's registration. It is settled that a civil
court cannot determine the validity of the trademark and that
IPAB's decision regarding the same is binding on the parties
before the civil court. If the defendant does not take steps as
envisaged under Section 124 of the Trade Marks Act, then its
plea regarding invalidity of the plaintiff's registered trademark is
deemed to be abandoned. He anchors his submission on the
Supreme Court judgment in Patel Field Marshal Agencies v.
P.M.Diesels Ltd. , (2018) 2 SCC 112. Thus, he submits that the
defendant has abandoned its plea of invalidity, as the defendant in
the present case has sought for a summary judgment, prior to
framing of issues. 60. It was submitted by Mr. Sindhwani, there was no question
of any delay or laches in the present case as the plaintiff has taken
necessary action as soon as it came to the knowledge of existence CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 36 of 63 of defendant's BFA mark and the proceedings are pending before
the Registrar. Moreover, it was submitted that the Apex Court has
held, in the case of Midas Hygiene Industries Pvt. Ltd, v. Sudhir
Bhatia , (2004) 3 SCC 90; that delay is inconsequential in a case
of infringement/passing off, especially where the adoption is in
bad faith. Further, it was submitted by Mr. Sindhwani that case
laws/precedents relied upon by defendants were not applicable in
the present set of facts, as it was well settled by Supreme Court in Deepak Bajaj v. State of Maharastra , (2008) 16 SCC 14; that a
little difference in facts or additional facts may make a lot of
difference in the precedential value of a decision. 61. On the other hand Mr. J Sai Deepak, learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the defendant at the outset submitted that
the plaintiff's oral request for an 'oral application' under Order
XIIIA for a summary judgment against the defendant is not
permissible under the CPC as modified by the Commercial
Courts Act or under the CPC as modified by the Commercial
Courts Act or under the Delhi High Court Rules for a party to
move an 'oral application' for summary judgment in Commercial
Suits. He submitted that the Court may suo moto take up the
matter for summary judgment, however a party may invoke
Order XIIIA only through an application by complying the
procedure laid down in Order XIIIA. In other words, it was his
submission that the plaintiff cannot on one hand raise procedural
objections to defendant's application under Order XIIIA and at
the same time make an 'oral application' for summary judgment
against the defendant. He also went on to submit that if the CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 37 of 63 defendant's application under Order XIIIA is allowed, it would
automatically render the plaintiff's application under Order
XXXIX Rule 1 & 2 for interim injunction infructuous. 62. Mr. Sai Deepak, submitted that in the light of plaintiff
relinquishing its claim against infringement of its certification
marks as well as its claim of dilution alleged against the
defendant, the only issue which arises for adjudication in respect
of both the applications is whether the defendant's use of 'BFA'
as a trade mark constitutes infringement of plaintiff's registered
non-certification marks within the meaning of any limb of Section 29 of the Trade Marks Act and whether such use amounts
to passing off as well. 63. To demonstrate its case for summary judgment for
dismissal of the suit in so far as the claim of passing off was
concerned, Mr. Sai Deepak contended that: Importantly, there is a recognized distinction in law
 between 'goodwill' and 'reputation'. It is establishment of
 goodwill at the relevant point in time within the jurisdiction
 where passing off is alleged which sustains a claim of
 passing off. The existence of such goodwill in favour of the
 plaintiff prior to the adoption of the mark by the defendant
 must be demonstrated through the extent of sales and
 advertising expenses incurred. This is the law laid down by a Division Bench of this Court in Paragraphs 17-20 of Intex
 Technologies (India) ltd &Anr. v. M/s AZ Tech (India) &
 Anr., 2017 (70) PTC 118 (Del). Applying this to the facts CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 38 of 63 of the instant case, upon a perusal of every document filed
 by the plaintiff in the suit, it becomes evident that the
 plaintiff has not filed a single document relating to either
 sales or advertising expenses which relates to a period prior
 to the adoption of "BFA" by the Defendant i.e. before
 December 2009. (ii) In Intex Technologies (India) Ltd. (supra), it was also
 held that if there is "added matter" which removes the
 scope for confusion between the marks, a case for passing
 of is not made out. Further, the Apex Court in M/s
 Nandhini Deluxe v. M/s Karnataka Cooperative Milk
 Federation, AIR 2018 SC 3516, held that in the
 determination of phonetic and/or visual similarity, added
 factors must be given due regard. Drawing inference from
 theses judgments it was submitted by Mr. Sai Deepak that
 there is sufficient 'added matter' in the defendant's mark
 which clearly precludes any 'likelihood of confusion'
 wherein likelihood refers to a real probability and not
 theoretical possibility. He also relied on the law laid down
 by the Apex Court on comparative referencing in the case
 of Tata Press Limited v. MTNL AIR 1995 SC 2438. In
 support of his contention he has drawn the attention of
 this Court to the table as reproduced below: (iii) The Apex Court in Cadila Health Care Ltd. v.
 Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , AIR 2001 SC 1952, held
 that in an action for passing off, to decide the question of
 deceptive similarity, the following factors must be
 considered: take option. Thus, it was his submission that the two
 programs are evidently different with different target
 audience. (vii) Mr. Sai Deepak submitted that since defendant's
 existence since 2009 and also since the institution of the
 suit, the plaintiff has failed to place before the Court even
 a single instance of confusion as alleged in the
 suit/application. He further submitted that even though
 notices against defendant's mark were issued by the
 plaintiff in 2015, the present suit is filed only in 2018 and
 failed to demonstrate even a single instance of confusion
 in the said period. Moreover, the plaintiff is precluded by
 delay from seeking interim injunction. (viii) He also vehemently contested the plaintiff's
 submission that 'Brick' and 'Work' are two separate
 words and the suggestion that the defendant should have
 chosen 'BWFA' as acronym, by stating that 'Brickwork'
 is single word and he has placed reliance on authoritative
 dictionaries such oxford, Merriam-Webster etc. That
 apart he also submitted that the plaintiff's stand of letting
 defendant use the logo with 'BFA' was befuddling as if
 the plaintiff believed 'BFA' is confusingly similar to
 'CFA', then plaintiff shouldn't be permitting defendant to
 even use it in its logo. 64. Further, Mr. Sai Deepak submitted that, a reading of Section 29(1) makes it abundantly clear that for the provision to CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 43 of 63 be attracted, the defendant must use an identical or deceptively
 similar mark in the course of trade in relation to goods or
 services in respect of which the plaintiff's mark is registered and
 the manner of use by the defendant must constitute use in a
 Trade Mark sense. In the facts of this case, it was his claim that
 the competing marks were neither identical or similar as
 explained by him in the context of passing off, nor was the use
 of CFA program in the defendant's brochure is in a trade mark
 sense and therefore, the conjunctive requirements of Section
 29(1) have not been satisfied by the Plaintiff. He also stated that
 in terms of judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of
 Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v.Navaratna
 Pharmaceutical Laboratories, (1965) I SCR 737, the test of
 deceptive similarity, in particular the class of customers,
 remains the same for infringement and passing off. Reliance is
 also placed on a Co-ordinate Bench judgment of this Court, in
 the case of Godfrey Phillips India Ltd. v. P.T.I. Ltd. & Ors. ,
 2018 (73) PTC 178 (Del), wherein the Court while allowing an
 application for summary judgment against the plaintiff under
 Order XIIIA, held in the context of cigarettes that the class of
 consumers was a relevant factor in determining deceptive
 similarity, to contend that defendant's position with respect to
 class of customers for the purpose of deceptive similarity in the
 context of an action for passing off is equally valid and
 applicable to the plaintiff's claim of trade mark infringement. 65. He also contended that Section 29 (2) of the Trade Marks
 Act does not apply since the trade marks are not identical in CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 44 of 63 terms of Section 29(2)(a) ; trade marks are not similar in terms
 of Section 29 (2)(b) and Section 29(2)(c) does not apply since
 the trade marks are not identical and there is no likelihood of
 confusion or association as contended above. Further, it was
 contended that Section 29(2) clearly envisages use of a mark in
 its trade mark sense, which does not apply to the facts of the
 present case. 66. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, the issue
 which arises for consideration in these applications is whether
 the plaintiff is entitled to injunction in its favour against the
 defendant for the usage of defendant's device mark (logo) with
 BFA and the word mark 'BFA' or the suit of the plaintiff is
 liable to be dismissed by granting the prayer as sought for by
 the defendant in its application under Order XIIIA CPC . 67. To answer these questions, it has to be seen whether the
 defendant's use of BFA mark is infringing the plaintiff's
 registered mark CFA. The submissions of Mr. Sindhwani in
 support of the application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2
 can be summarized as under: (i) The use of mark 'BFA' by the defendant
 constitutes infringement under Section 29(2)(b) of the
 Trade Marks Act as the mark is similar to registered mark
 'CFA' of the plaintiff, which is a prior adoption; (ii) The
 defendant is using the mark 'BFA' in relation to identical
 services being educational services; (iii) The marks are
 visually, structure and phonetically similar; (iv) The
 'CFA' mark of the plaintiff is exclusively associated with CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 45 of 63 plaintiff and is a well-known mark, in other words, the
 mark 'CFA' has acquired a secondary meaning; (v) The
 defendant on its website and brochure clearly makes
 references to plaintiff and CFA program stating BFA is
 similar to CFA and candidates with CFA qualification are
 preferred; (vi) By representing so, the defendant
 acknowledges and admits the reputation of the plaintiff in
 its CFA marks; (vii) It also entices the public into
 believing that an association exists between the plaintiff
 and defendant and their respective CFA and BFA
 programs; (viii) The conduct of the defendant is clearly to
 trade off on the reputation of plaintiff's well-known CFA
 marks; (ix) The actual confusion is not required to be
 established for infringement or passing off; (x) The
 plaintiff has been conducting the CFA examination and
 denied the plea of the defendant that AICTE had directed
 the plaintiff to cease the operation; (xi) the plaintiff
 adoption / use of the mark is since 1963 while that of the
 defendant is from 2009. 68. On the other hand, the submissions of Mr. Sai Deepak for
 the defendant are the following: (i) The action for passing off is based on
 demonstration of goodwill through the extent of sales and
 advertising expenses incurred; (ii) Not a single document
 has been filed relating to sales and advertising expenses
 for the period prior to December 2009; (iii) There is a
 sufficient added matter in the defendants' mark which CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 46 of 63 clearly precludes any likelihood of confusion; wherein
 likelihood refers to real probability and not theoretical
 possibility; (iv)The nature of services provided by both
 parties are sophisticated and they cater to extremely
 educated and presumably intelligent group of Graduates; (v) The competing marks are composite in nature and do
 not resemble each other; (vi) The brochure of the
 defendant clearly speaks of CFA as a program or a
 qualification and not in a trademark sense; (vii) Not even
 a single case of confusion has been placed by the
 plaintiff. 69. Having noted the broad submissions of the counsel for the
 parties, it is noted that the suit filed by the plaintiff is both for
 infringement and passing off of the trade mark 'CFA'. For
 establishing the case of infringement, the plaintiff's mark being
 registered as 'CFA', it has to be proved that the defendant's
 mark is identical with or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's
 registered mark; the defendant's use of the mark is in the course
 of trade in respect of goods and services covered by the
 registered trademark; the use of the mark by the defendant is in
 such a manner so as to render the use of mark likely to be taken
 as being used as a trademark; the defendant use of the mark is
 not by way of "permitted use" and accordingly unauthorized,
 infringing use. 70. Having said that in an action for infringement where the
 defendant's trade mark is identical with plaintiff's mark, it is not
 necessary to enquire whether infringement as such is likely to CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 47 of 63 cause confusion, but where the alleged infringement consists of
 using not the exact mark on the register but something similar to
 it, the test of infringement is same as in an action of passing off.
 In other words, the test as to likelihood of confusion or
 deception arising from similarity of marks is the same both in
 infringement and passing off actions. (Reference: Ruston and
 Hornsby Ltd. v. Zamindara Engineering Company , ( 1969) 2
 SCC 727, Biofarma & Anr. v. Sanjay Medical Store & Ors. ,
 (1997) 66 DLT 705, Saville Perfumery Limited v. June Perfect
 Limited, 1941 (58) RPC 147) 71. In the present case the mark 'CFA' is an abbreviation of
 the word 'Chartered Financial Analyst'. Similarly, 'BFA' is an
 abbreviation of 'Brickwork Finance Academy', the institution
 and 'Banking Financial Analyst', a course conducted by the
 defendant. 72. It is trite law, as held by the Apex Court in Amritdhara
 Pharmacy v. Satyadeo Gupta , AIR 1963 SC 449, inter-alia that
 it should be the overall structural and phonetic similarity that
 needs to be considered in coming to a conclusion whether the
 marks are deceptively similar or not. Having noted the position
 of law and as to what constitutes infringement / passing off, it is
 seen in the case in hand, the mark of the plaintiff is 'CFA'
 whereas the impugned mark is 'BFA'. Apparently, I am of the
 view that the marks are not identical. So, it is not a case of
 infringement of the mark 'CFA'. The marks not being identical,
 the question that arises then would be whether there is
 likelihood of confusion or deception arising from similarity of CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 48 of 63 marks. Section 2(1)(d) of the Trademark Act defines deceptive
 similarity to mean, 'a mark shall be deceptively similar to
 another mark if it is so nearly resemblance that other mark as to
 be likely deceive or cause confusion'. 73. The division Bench of Bombay High Court in Hiralal
 Prabhudas v. Ganesh Trading Co. , AIR 1984 Bom 218, by
 relying upon the Judgments of the Supreme Court in Corn
 Products Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd. , AIR
 1960 SC 142 and Amritdhara Pharmacy (supra), has
 summarized the principles for deceptive similarity as, (a) what
 is the main idea or salient features, (b) marks are remembered
 by general impressions or by some significant detail rather than
 by a photographic recollection of the whole, (c) overall
 similarity is the touchstone, (d) marks must be looked at from
 the view and first impression of a person of average intelligence
 and imperfect recollection, (e) overall structure, phonetic
 similarity and similarity of idea are important and both visual
 and phonetic tests must be applied, (f) the purchaser must not
 be put in a state of wonderment, (g) marks must be compared as
 a whole, microscopic examination being impermissible, (h) the
 broad and salient features must be considered for which the
 marks must not be placed side by side to find out differences in
 design and (I) overall similarity is sufficient. In addition, the
 nature of the commodity, the class of purchasers, the mode of
 purchase and other surrounding circumstances must also be
 taken into consideration. In fact, similar is the test laid down by the Apex Court in Cadila Health Care Ltd. (supra) and the CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 49 of 63 same has been relied upon by Mr. Sai Deepak in his
 submissions. 74. Undisputedly, the essential function of a trademark is to
 guarantee the identity of origin of the mark goods or services to
 the customer or enabling him without any possibility of
 confusion to distinguish the goods or services from others which
 have another origin as inter-alia held by the Court of Justice of
 the European Economic Community in the case of Hoffmann-
 La Roche, (1978) ECR 1139. 75. The Supreme Court in the case of F. Hoffmann-La
 Roche & Co. Ltd. v. Geoffrey Manners & Co. Pvt. Ltd. , AIR
 1970 SC 2062, wherein the marks 'PROTOVIT' and
 'DROPOVIT' of the respective parties therein were held to be
 not deceptively similar even though the last three letters were
 common as there existed sufficient difference in the uncommon
 part of the two marks, 'PROTO' and 'DROPO', both visually
 and phonetically. 76. Similarly, in Ciba Geigy Ltd. v. Sun Pharmaceutical
 Industries , (1992) 2 GLR 1053, the Gujarat High Court has
 held that the marks 'CLOFRANIL' and 'ANAFRANIL' are not
 deceptively similar as the three letters in the beginning of the
 said marks being 'CLO' and 'ANA' are pronounced differently. Likewise is the line of reasoning given by a division bench of
 the Madras High Court in Mount Mettur Pharmaceuticals Ltd.
 vs. Ortha Pharmaceuticals Corporation , AIR 1975 Mad 74,
 while holding the marks 'Ortho-Gynol' and 'Utogynol' to be
 not deceptively similar as the first two syllables of the word are CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 50 of 63 most important in the normal enunciation of words and the
 accentuation would be upon the first word 'Ortho' or 'Uto' and
 not on the second word 'Gynol'. Even it is stated in Kerly's Law
 of Trade Marks and Trade-names; Eleventh Edition, para 17-20
 page 416, that 'the first syllable of word mark is generally the
 most important' as there is a 'tendency of person using the
 English language to slur the termination of words'. 77. In fact, this Court in Biofarma and Anr. v. Sanjay
 Medical Store and Ors. , 1997 SCC Online Delhi 359, while
 dealing with deceptive similarity of the marks 'flavedon' and
 'trivedon', has held the marks to be dissimilar, as the opening
 syllable of the two marks are completely different and distinct in
 appearance as well. The Court has also noted that there are
 several drugs which apparently end with the suffix 'vedon' /
 'vidon'. 78. Moreover, the Supreme Court in Amridhara Pharmacy (supra) as well as in other judgments has also observed that
 every case must depend on its own particular facts, and the
 value of authorities lies not so much in the actual decision as in
 the tests applied for determining what is likely to deceive or
 cause confusion. 79. Applying the above discussed principles to the case in
 hand, I find that the marks 'CFA' and 'BFA' have common
 second and third alphabets but the first alphabet/syllable being
 'C' and 'B', are not similar/common and the marks 'CFA' and
 'BFA' start with distinct dissimilarity. Owing to this
 dissimilarity, I am of the view that the first syllable/alphabet is CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 51 of 63 different/dissimilar, making it visually and phonetically
 dissimilar. Although phonetic and visual similarities are
 disjunctive and not conjunctive tests, I am of the view that the
 both the tests are not satisfied by the impugned mark. 80. That apart the visual similarity of the device mark of the
 defendant is concerned, the mark in its trade mark sense
 describes what BFA stands for i.e. 'Brickwork Finance
 Academy', so as to enable any person of average intelligence
 and imperfect recollection coming across the device mark to
 clearly understand what the defendant means by the
 abbreviation, 'BFA'. Moreover, the remaining part of the
 defendant's logo in the mark is also substantially different from
 the plaintiff's mark. In fact, Mr. Sindhwani, during the course
 of arguments had stated that the plaintiff is willing to allow the
 defendant to use the logo/device mark provided the defendant
 agrees not to use the standalone word mark 'BFA'. 81. Having said that, there is other important aspect that
 cannot be overlooked i.e. the mark 'BFA' is used by the
 defendant along with device mark on its brochure (Reference: 82. He is also right in submitting to counter arguments of Mr.
 Sindhwani that the defendant is referring to the mark 'CFA' to
 contend that it is being used as a separate program which
 qualification is given preference for doing 'BFA'. In other CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 52 of 63 words, according to him, at no place defendant is attempting to
 convey that BFA program is same/similar as CFA program. In
 fact, he highlights the fact that in the brochure itself, it is
 mentioned that candidates with CFA qualification are preferred.
 This according to Mr. Sai Deepak brings out the distinction
 between the CFA and BFA programs. 83. That apart, Mr. Sai Deepak is also justified in contending
 that the nature of service provided by both the parties are to the
 people having at least a graduate qualification and persons
 having that qualification shall be easily in a position to
 differentiate the programs, being conducted by the plaintiff and
 the defendant and also decide that the CFA course is not the
 BFA course as being conducted by the defendant. 84. In fact, a division bench of this Court in Fritco-Lay India
 and Ors. v. Uncle Chipps Private Limited AIR 2000 Delhi 366,
 by relying upon M/s. Hiralal Parbhudas (supra), Amridhara
 Pharmacy (supra), while deciding whether act of the
 respondent therein, distributing a free collectible which goes by
 the name 'AMAZO' as compared to the free patented collectible
 'TAZO' distributed by the appellant with their products
 respectively amounts to passing off of the appellant's products,
 inter-alia held that the promotional campaign being aimed at a
 certain class of customers (middle class and upper middle class
 children) who are capable of distinguishing between the
 'TAZO' and 'AMAZO', there was no likelihood of confusion.
 The relevant portion of the judgment reads as under: It was further held that: 30. Applying the above principles it is clear that one
 of the important factors to be considered, is the class
 of purchasers. Mere look at the promotional campaign
 reveals that both names i.e., TAZO or AMAZZO are
 written in English. Thus, the promotional campaign is
 meant to attract urban elite children of middle class or
 upper middle class families. The children who are well
 versed in English and can certainly distinguish
 between TAZO and AMAZZO and as such there is no
 likelihood of confusion. In this regard we are also
 fortified by the observations made by a division bench
 of this Court reported as Kellogs and company Vs.
 Praveen Kumar 1996 2 AD 465. The court after
 considering several cases, rejected the plea of
 similarity or likelihood of confusion or plea of fraud
 based on imperfect memory and declined to interfere
 with the order of the learned Single Judge. In fact, in
 Amritdhara's cases (supra) relied upon by the
 appellants. Supreme Court considered the persons
 who were likely to purchase that Ayurvedic Medicine
 would be both villagers town folk, literate as well as
 illiterate and observed as under :- 31. In the present case, persons who would go to
 purchase the snacks are not likely to be illiterate or
 badly educated persons. They would be those who CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 55 of 63 belong to a class, who are fairly educated in English
 and would be table to distinguish between TAZO and
 AMAZZO, there are several other dissimilarities. As
 noticed above the characters printed on each of the
 discs are different. Discs are contained inside the
 product packets which are admittedly different. " 98. The tests which are, therefore, required to be applied
 in each case would be different. Each word must be taken
 separately. They should be judged by their look and by
 their sound. Must consider the goods to which they are to
 be applied. Nature and kind of customers who would
 likely to buy goods must also be considered. Surrounding
 circumstances play an important factor. What would
 likely to happen if each of those trade marks is used in a
 normal way as a trade mark of the goods of the respective
 owners of the marks would also be a relevant factor. [See
 Pianotist Co.' Application, Re, (1906) 23 RPC 774]. 99. Thus, when and how a person would likely to be
 confused is a very relevant consideration." (Emphasis supplied) 87. Drawing inference from the above-mentioned judgments,
as well as table reproduced at paragraph 30 above, courses
offered by the plaintiff and the defendant as CFA and BFA
program are certification courses, aimed at candidates interested
in financial/investment services, who have at least completed
their under-graduation, both with a different course structure.
Insofar as the CFA program is concerned, it is the conceded case
of the plaintiff that after completion of the course/program,
successful candidates can even use the 'CFA' as part of their
professional designation. The plaintiff has also pointed out in the
plaint that numerous industries and scholarly publications
describe the rigorous pre-requisites to earn the CFA designation
and urge potential investors to look for and rely upon the CFA
designation in choosing an investment advisor and that the CFA CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 58 of 63 designation is recognized by over 40 governmental bodies and
regulatory agencies throughout the world. If that be so, any
prospective candidate who seeks to pursue CFA program, owing
to the difference in curriculum/course structure, professional
designation, acceptance at various organizations etc., in normal
course will not confuse the same with the course offered as
'BFA' by the defendant. Moreover, the defendant's program
BFA is not a substitute for the course offered by the plaintiff.
Even though in similar/identical areas, the curriculum as admitted
by the parties are not the same. Similarly, the assessment
pattern/examination patterns of both the programs are also
different. The defendant has, in that regard has
differentiated/pointed out in its brochure that the courses
provided by the parties are different. Therefore, prima-facie I am
of the view that the class of customers who are likely to
avail/pursue the courses of the either the plaintiff or the defendant
will be capable of differentiating between the two programs
before enrolling for their preferred course. 88. That apart, I agree with the submission made by Mr. Sai
Deepak that 'Finance Academy' being a generic combination and
there may be number of institutions with the appellation Finance
Academy or containing its abbreviation 'FA', any injunction
granted shall have a bearing on those usages/institutions. In this
regard I may state that during the preparation of this Judgment, I
did an organic online search in Google, being a popular search
engine, with the keywords 'Finance Academies', to find out
finance academies, if any, conducting educational/certification CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 59 of 63 programs/exams. The organic search returned the names of two
academies specifically containing the combination 'Finance
Academy' namely IFA-Indian Finance Academy and Pioneer
House Finance Academy along with various other institutions.
The abbreviation of the former being IFA, surely any finding that
'BFA' is deceptively similar to 'CFA' shall have a bearing on
'IFA' as well. In fact, it shall have a bearing on every mark with
suffix 'FA'. Similarly, I also note that there are other courses
such as Bachelor of Fine Arts which goes by the abbreviation
'BFA' in common parlance. 89. Mr. Sindhwani has relied upon a division bench judgment
of this Court in B.K. Engineering (supra) in support of his
contention that the use of mark BFA by the defendant is a
deliberate attempt to entice the public into believing that an
association exists between the plaintiff and defendant. However,
the said judgment is clearly distinguishable in facts as 'B.K' and
'B.K. 81' were the house mark and trade mark respectively of the
plaintiff and defendant therein, who were engaged in the
manufacture of cycle bells, the Court held the defendant's mark
to be deceptively similar as the product being the same (cycle
bell) and there was a likelihood of the purchasing public to
believe the product to be of plaintiff company. The Court also
held that the owing to 'common field of activity' public could be
deceived of that there could be some association with the two
parties. In the present case, the marks are not deceptively similar
and more over the class of customers as against the class in B.K.
Engineering(supra) is capable of differentiating between the CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 60 of 63 programmes offered by the parties herein. 90. He has relied upon the Apex Court judgments in Toyota
Jidosha Kabushiki Kasiha (supra) and Laxmikant V. Patel (supra) to contend that actual confusion is not required to
establish infringement or passing off. Reliance was also placed
on a Coordinate Bench judgment of this Court in The Royal
Bank of Scotland Group PLC (supra) wherein it was inter-alia
held that what needs to looked into by Court under Section 29(2) is whether confusion is likely to be caused or not. These
judgments are also clearly not applicable in the facts of the
present case, in view of my conclusion above that there is no
scope for confusion between the two marks owing the
dissimilarity and class of customers who would be enrolling for
the respective programmes. 91. In so far as the judgments relied upon by Mr. Sindhwani
viz. Aktiebolaget SKF (supra), Larsen and Toubro Ltd. (supra), H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB & Anr. (supra), DPS World
Foundation (supra), The General Electric Company (supra), Inter IKEA Systems BV (supra), S. Mehar Singh (supra), Hind
Cutlery (supra), NIIT (supra), Ram Kishan & Sons Charitable
Trust (supra) and Inter Ikea System B.V v. Akea Systems (supra) ; I have considered them and find that all these judgments
are on the line of the impugned marks, abbreviations, therein
being deceptively similar, which is not the case in the present
matter in view of my above conclusion and hence misplaced. 92. Further, reliance has been placed on Living Media India
Ltd (supra) by Mr. Sindhwani, wherein a coordinate Bench of CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 61 of 63 this Court has held that any kind of prefix or suffix would not
make any difference so far as the trade name is concerned. I find
the reliance is misplaced as the trade name or registered mark of
the plaintiff is 'CFA' and the mark of the defendant is altogether
different as 'BFA' and defendant is not using any pre-fix or
suffix to the trade name/ trade mark of the plaintiff. 93. Anchorage made by Mr. Sindhwani on Baker Hughes (supra) of this Court and Baker Hughes (supra) (Supreme
Court) is clearly weak in the facts of the present case, as in those
matters there was a question involved of revocation of an
agreement between the parties whereby consent was given for the
use of the name 'Baker', subject to certain conditions (such as
share holding pattern of the plaintiff/appellant to not go down
below 40%). It was on the continued use of the said name/mark
(foreign registered) after the alleged violation of the agreement
that the plaintiff approached of this Court which granted interim
injunction on a prima facie view and same was upheld by the
Apex Court facie, without prejudice to the trial in the matter. 94. Insofar so a coordinate Bench judgment of this Court in
Association for Investment Management and Research and
Ors. v. The Institute of Chartered Financial Analysts of India
and Ors. , 2006 (33) PTC352, is concerned I have carefully
perused this judgment as well, only to find, the issue involved
therein was whether using of the mark CFA and ICFA by the
defendants even after revocation of the agreement by which
plaintiff granted them license amounted to passing off or not and
the Court granted injunction is said context. 95. I also note that a plea of dilution under Section 29(4) of
the Trade Mark Act taken by the plaintiff in the Suit/application
was not pressed by Mr. Sindhwani during the course of the
arguments. Even otherwise, the said plea will not hold good in
view of my conclusion above. 96. Since the plaintiff has pleaded distinctiveness and
secondary meaning to its mark 'CFA' which is a disputed fact
and mandates adducing of evidence and also to find out what is
the effect thereof on the impugned mark, I dismiss the application
under Order XIIIA read with Section 151 of the CPC, being I.A.
No. 14173/2018, seeking summary judgment. I may also state, in
fact an 'oral prayer' was made by Mr. Sindhwani under Order
XIIIA of the CPC for summary judgment in the facts and
pleadings put forth by him. Suffice it to say that in view of the
judgment of a Division Bench of this Court in Bright Enterprises
Private Ltd. v. MJ Bizcraft LLP , 2017 (69) PTC 596 (Del)., an
oral prayer being not maintainable under Order XIIIA, I reject the
same. 97. In view of my above conclusion, I dismiss the application
under Order XXXIX Rule 1 & 2, bearing I.A. No. 2460/2018.
CS (COMM) 619/2018
 List before the Joint Registrar for marking of exhibits on
November 12, 2020. V. KAMESWAR RAO, J
OCTOBER 06, 2020/jg CS (COMM) 619/2018 Page 63 of 63