1. Heard Sri Sharad Pathak and Sri Gaurav Shukla, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Alok Kumar Tiwari, learned A.G.A. for the State and perused the record. 2. 	The present application has been filed seeking following main relief(s):- 3. Vide impugned order dated 15.03.2023 passed in the case registered as CNR No. UPBB 040149722021 (State Versus Kalawati and Others), arising out of Crime No. 186 of 2020 under Sections 420 IPC, Police Station Dariabad, District Barabanki, the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Room No.4, Barabanki (in short 'Magistrate'), rejected the application of the applicant seeking discharge preferred under Section 239 Cr.P.C. The order dated 15.03.2023 is extracted hereinunder:- 4. Being aggrieved by the order dated 15.03.2023 passed by the Magistrate, the applicant filed the revision registered as CNR No. UPBB010046682023. 5. The Additional District and Sessions Judge, Court No.5, Barabanki (in short 'Revisional Court') vide impugned order dated 23.11.2024 dismissed the revision and affirmed the order of Magistrate dated 15.03.2023. The relevant portion of order dated 23.11.2024 reads as under:- 6. Impeaching the impugned order(s) it is stated that the case of prosecution against the applicant, in nutshell, is to the effect that the applicant being Gram Pradhan of Village Jethauti Kurmiyan, District Barabanki verified the contents of affidavit of one Chandra Prakash Vishwakarma r/o Ranepur hamlet of Village-Jethauti, Kurmiyan, Police Station-Dariyabad, District- Barabanki, which he filed to get the benefit of the scheme known as "Pradhanmantri Awas Yojna', indicating therein that he has no 'iDdk edku/Pakka Makan' i.e. 'Brick House' in the Village, which in fact was correct as in enquiry/investigation, it was found that Chandra Prakash Vishwakarma is having a house in Village Mathura Nagar and considering these facts of the case the applicant ought to have been discharged as offence under Section 420 IPC against the applicant is not made but without recording reasons after considering the facts of the case in the light of the law settled, the Magistrate as also the Revisional Court passed the impugned order(s) and being so the same are liable to be interfered by this Court. 7. In support of his submissions reliance has been placed on the judgments indicated hereinafter. 8. Referred paragraphs of judgment passed in the case of Anil Kumar Bose v. State of Bihar , (1974) 4 SCC 616, are as under:- 14. The learned Judge of the High Court made a significant observation in the following terms: 15. Even on the finding of the High Court, there was nothing in the Duty Chart that the duty of the Cashier was to see that the payment was made to the correct or right person. There is further no evidence that these three Doctors were known to the Cashier. On the other hand, the High Court has not absolutely repelled the argument advanced on his behalf that it was not possible for him to know all the Housemen. The High Court has come to an adverse conclusion against him on account of his not properly "ascertaining who was the real recipient" of the money before he disbursed the same. The material before the High Court together with the significant observation against the Superintendent and the Deputy Superintendent do make out a case for giving benefit of reasonable doubt to the Cashier as well. On the evidence which the High Court has relied upon against him, it is not possible to hold that the requisite mens rea has been established against this accused. As observed in the case of the Accountant, it may be at the highest a case of an error of judgment or breach of performance of duty which, per se, cannot be equated with dishonest intention to establish the charge under Section 420IPC In the result, the appeals are allowed. The judgment of the High Court so far as these two appellants are concerned is set aside. The two appellants herein are acquitted of the charge and shall be discharged from their bail bonds." 9. Referred paragraphs of judgment passed in the case of Mohd. Ibrahim v. State of Bihar , (2009) 8 SCC 751, are as under:- 19. To constitute an offence under Section 420 , there should not only be cheating, but as a consequence of such cheating, the accused should have dishonestly induced the person deceived (i) to deliver any property to any person, or (ii) to make, alter or destroy wholly or in part a valuable security (or anything signed or sealed and which is capable of being converted into a valuable security). 20. When a sale deed is executed conveying a property claiming ownership thereto, it may be possible for the purchaser under such sale deed to allege that the vendor has cheated him by making a false representation of ownership and fraudulently induced him to part with the sale consideration. But in this case the complaint is not by the purchaser. On the other hand, the purchaser is made a co-accused. 21. It is not the case of the complainant that any of the accused tried to deceive him either by making a false or misleading representation or by any other action or omission, nor is it his case that they offered him any fraudulent or dishonest inducement to deliver any property or to consent to the retention thereof by any person or to intentionally induce him to do or omit to do anything which he would not do or omit if he were not so deceived. Nor did the complainant allege that the first appellant pretended to be the complainant while executing the sale deeds. Therefore, it cannot be said that the first accused by the act of executing sale deeds in favour of the second accused or the second accused by reason of being the purchaser, or the third, fourth and fifth accused, by reason of being the witness, scribe and stamp vendor in regard to the sale deeds, deceived the complainant in any manner. 22. As the ingredients of cheating as stated in Section 415 are not found, it cannot be said that there was an offence punishable under Sections 417 , 418 , 419 or 420 of the Code." 10. Referred paragraphs of judgment passed in the case of Samir Sahay v. State of U.P. , (2018) 14 SCC 233, are as under:- 11. After lodging the first information report, Respondent 2 and his wife had also filed Petition No. 318 of 1998 before the District Consumer Forum, Fatehpur against Inderjeet Aneja, Proprietor of Aneja Consultancy, President and Managing Director of Aneja Financial Services Ltd. and Aneja Group of Companies. In the complaint filed before the District Consumer Forum neither the appellant nor his father was arrayed and no allegation was made against the appellant and his father in the complaint. It is also relevant to note that the said complaint filed by Respondent 2 and his wife ultimately was allowed by the District Consumer Forum on 27-12-2006. The District Consumer Forum directed the amount as claimed to be paid within 15 days after receiving the copy of the order. 12. It is also relevant to note that the appellant had also filed a complaint being No. 111 of 1999 along with his wife, son, father and other family members alleging that the applicants had deposited an amount of Rs 3,49,415 in the Company which has not been returned back. The District Consumer Forum allowed the complaint filed by the appellant vide order dated 16-8-2001 directing payment with interest @ 9% per annum. 13. In the statement made before the police under Section 161 CrPC both Respondent 2 and his wife have repeated the same allegations which were made in the first information report. In the statement which has been brought on record under Section 161 CrPC, Respondent 2 and his wife had alleged that Major P.C. Sahay (Retd.) who was known to Respondent 2 contacted Respondent 2 and assured him that if any amount was deposited with the Company, he would take the entire responsibility. It was further stated that the appellant accompanied his father Major P.C. Sahay (Retd.) who was known to Respondent 2. 14. The application was filed by the appellant seeking discharge on the ground that there is no evidence to frame charge under Section 420 IPC. The learned Chief Judicial Magistrate while rejecting the application filed by the appellant for discharge has observed that on the assurance of both Major P.C. Sahay (Retd.) and the appellant, the complainant and his wife deposited Rs 86,000. The learned Chief Judicial Magistrate has given the following reasons for rejecting the application: 15. The order passed by the Chief Judicial Magistrate was challenged. The High Court by brief order has dismissed the revision observing that the counsel for the revisionist could not point out any manifest error or otherwise illegality so as to warrant interference. 16. Before we proceed further to examine the contentions of the learned counsel for the parties, it is necessary to notice the ingredients for establishing a charge under Section 420 IPC. Section 415 IPC defines "cheating" which is to the following effect: 17. Section 420 IPC is with regard to the cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property which is to the following effect: 18. According to Section 415 IPC, the inducement must be fraudulent and dishonest which depends upon the intention of the accused at the time of inducement. This Court had occasion to consider Sections 415 and 420 IPC in Hridaya Ranjan Prasad Vermav.State of Bihar[Hridaya Ranjan Prasad Vermav.State of Bihar, (2000) 4 SCC 168 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 786] . This Court after noticing the provisions of Sections 415 and 420 IPC stated the following in paras 14 and 15: (SCC pp. 176-77)
 
 "14. On a reading of the section it is manifest that in the definition there are set forth two separate classes of acts which the person deceived may be induced to do. In the first place he may be induced fraudulently or dishonestly to deliver any property to any person. The second class of acts set forth in the section is the doing or omitting to do anything which the person deceived would not do or omit to do if he were not so deceived. In the first class of cases the inducing must be fraudulent or dishonest. In the second class of acts, the inducing must be intentional but not fraudulent or dishonest. 15. In determining the question it has to be kept in mind that the distinction between mere breach of contract and the offence of cheating is a fine one. It depends upon the intention of the accused at the time of inducement which may be judged by his subsequent conduct but for this subsequent conduct is not the sole test. Mere breach of contract cannot give rise to criminal prosecution for cheating unless fraudulent or dishonest intention is shown right at the beginning of the transaction, that is the time when the offence is said to have been committed. Therefore it is the intention which is the gist of the offence. To hold a person guilty of cheating it is necessary to show that he had fraudulent or dishonest intention at the time of making the promise. From his mere failure to keep up promise subsequently such a culpable intention right at the beginning, that is, when he made the promise cannot be presumed." xxxxxxxxx 22. The Chief Judicial Magistrate while rejecting the application of the appellant for seeking discharge has not even referred to any allegation or evidence on the basis of which it can be said that ingredients of Section 420 IPC were made out in the facts of the present case. 23. We are, thus, of the considered opinion that in the present case ingredients of Section 420 IPC were not made out so as to frame any charge under Section 420 IPC against the appellant. 24. In the result, the appeal is allowed, the order of the Chief Judicial Magistrate dated 28-2-2007 and the judgment of the High Court dated 21-10-2016 [Sameer Sahayv.State of U.P., 2016 SCC OnLine All 2373] are set aside. The appellant shall stand discharged from the charges under Section 420 IPC in Case No. 545 of 2002." 11. Referred paragraphs of judgment passed in the case of R.K. Vijayasarathy v. Sudha Seetharam , (2019) 16 SCC 739, are as under:-. "12.*** (i) A complaint can be quashed where the allegations made in the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety, do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out the case alleged against the accused. For this purpose, the complaint has to be examined as a whole, but without examining the merits of the allegations. Neither a detailed inquiry nor a meticulous analysis of the material nor an assessment of the reliability or genuineness of the allegations in the complaint, is warranted while examining prayer for quashing of a complaint. (ii) A complaint may also be quashed where it is a clear abuse of the process of the court, as when the criminal proceeding is found to have been initiated with mala fides/malice for wreaking vengeance or to cause harm, or where the allegations are absurd and inherently improbable. (iii) The power to quash shall not, however, be used to stifle or scuttle a legitimate prosecution. The power should be used sparingly and with abundant caution. (iv) The complaint is not required to verbatim reproduce the legal ingredients of the offence alleged. If the necessary factual foundation is laid in the complaint, merely on the ground that a few ingredients have not been stated in detail, the proceedings should not be quashed. Quashing of the complaint is warranted only where the complaint is so bereft of even the basic facts which are absolutely necessary for making out the offence." 10. The High Court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, is required to examine whether the averments in the complaint constitute the ingredients necessary for an offence alleged under the Penal Code. If the averments taken on their face do not constitute the ingredients necessary for the offence, the criminal proceedings may be quashed under Section 482 . A criminal proceeding can be quashed where the allegations made in the complaint do not disclose the commission of an offence under the Penal Code. The complaint must be examined as a whole, without evaluating the merits of the allegations. Though the law does not require that the complaint reproduce the legal ingredients of the offence verbatim, the complaint must contain the basic facts necessary for making out an offence under the Penal Code. 11. The first respondent has alleged in the complaint that the appellants have committed offences under Sections 405 , 406 , 415 and 420 read with Section 34 of the Penal Code. It would thus be necessary to examine the ingredients of the above offences and whether the allegations made in the complaint, read on their face, attract those offences under the Penal Code. 12. Section 405 of the Penal Code reads thus: 13. A careful reading of Section 405 shows that the ingredients of a criminal breach of trust are as follows: 16. The ingredients to constitute an offence of cheating are as follows: (emphasis supplied) 22. The condition necessary for an act to constitute an offence under Section 405 of the Penal Code is that the accused was entrusted with some property or has dominion over property. The first respondent has stated that the disputed sum was transferred by the son of the appellants of his own volition to her. The complaint clearly states that the amount was transferred for the benefit of the son of the appellants and that the first respondent was to hold the amount "in trust" for him. The complaint alleges that the money was transferred to the appellants "as per the dicta" of the son of the appellants. There is on the face of the complaint, no entrustment of the appellants with any property. 23. The condition necessary for an act to constitute an offence under Section 415 of the Penal Code is that there was dishonest inducement by the accused. The first respondent admitted that the disputed sum was transferred by the son of the appellants to her bank account on 17-2-2010. She alleges that she transferred the money belonging to the son of the appellants at his behest. No act on part of the appellants has been alleged that discloses an intention to induce the delivery of any property to the appellants by the first respondent. There is thus nothing on the face of the complaint to indicate that the appellants dishonestly induced the first respondent to deliver any property to them. Cheating is an essential ingredient to an offence under Section 420 of the Penal Code. The ingredient necessary to constitute the offence of cheating is not made out from the face of the complaint and consequently, no offence under Section 420 is made out. 24. In Binod Kumar v. State of Bihar [Binod Kumar v. State of Bihar, (2014) 10 SCC 663 : (2015) 1 SCC (Cri) 203] certain amounts were due and payable to a contract worker. When the amount due was not paid due to a termination of the contract, the worker filed a criminal case against the appellant for criminal breach of trust. The appellants' petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for quashing was dismissed [ Binod Kumar v. State of Bihar , 2011 SCC OnLine Pat 595] by the High Court. A two-Judge Bench of this Court examined the ingredients of the offence and whether the complaint on its face disclosed the commission of any offence. This Court quashed the criminal proceedings holding thus : (SCC pp. 671-72, paras 14 & 18-19)
 
 "14. At this stage, we are only concerned with the question whether the averments in the complaint taken at their face value make out the ingredients of criminal offence or not. ... *** 18. In the present case, looking at the allegations in the complaint on the face of it, we find that no allegations are made attracting the ingredients of Section 405 IPC. Likewise, there are no allegations as to cheating or the dishonest intention of the appellants in retaining the money in order to have wrongful gain to themselves or causing wrongful loss to the complainant. Excepting the bald allegations that the appellants did not make payment to the second respondent and that the appellants utilised the amounts either by themselves or for some other work, there is no iota of allegation as to the dishonest intention in misappropriating the property. ... 19. Even if all the allegations in the complaint taken at the face value are true, in our view, the basic essential ingredients of dishonest misappropriation and cheating are missing. Criminal proceedings are not a shortcut for other remedies. Since no case of criminal breach of trust or dishonest intention of inducement is made out and the essential ingredients of Sections 405 / 420 IPC are missing, the prosecution of the appellants under Sections 406 / 120-B IPC, is liable to be quashed." xxxxxxxxxxx 30. For the above reasons, the appeal is allowed. The judgment [ R.K. Vijayasarthy v. Sudha Seetharam , 2016 SCC OnLine Kar 8478] of the High Court is set aside and the criminal proceedings arising from PCR 2116 of 2016 instituted by the first respondent against the appellants are quashed. We however clarify, that no opinion has been expressed on the merits of the pending civil suit filed by the son of the appellants for the recovery of money. The pending suit shall be disposed of in accordance with the law." 12. Referred paragraphs of judgment passed in the case of Deepak Gaba v. State of U.P. , (2023) 3 SCC 423, are as under:- 13. Referred paragraphs of judgment passed in the case of Vipin Sahni v. CBI , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 511, are as under:- Explanation.- A dishonest concealment of facts is a deception within the meaning of this section.' Section 420 IPC, the provision we are concerned with presently, reads as under:-- xxxxxxxxxx 19. In Ram Jas v. State of U.P. (1970) 2 SCC 740, the ingredients required to constitute an offence of cheating were succinctly summed up thus:-- 20. In V.P. Shrivastava v. Indian Explosives Limited (2010) 10 SCC 361 , this Court observed that in order to constitute an offence of cheating, it must be shown that the accused had a fraudulent or dishonest intention at the time of making the representation or promise and such a culpable intention should be there at the time of entering into the agreement. On facts, it was found that the party alleged to have been cheated was fully conscious of the situation at the time it decided to enter into the contract and there was no dishonest inducement. 21. In the case on hand, there was disclosure of the fact that the subject land was mortgaged to secure the bank loan but despite the same, the AICTE granted approval for the 'Business School of Delhi' and it never complained that it was under any misinformation in that regard. Thus, the essential requisite to make out an offence of cheating is lacking. Mere carelessness on the part of the appellants in filling up the second and third applications and a part of the first application also cannot be taken to be motivated by deliberate deception, on the admitted factual position, so as to invite criminal charges. 22. Further, there is no evidence of the appellants consciously agreeing or conspiring to deliberately furnish false information to the AICTE so as to garner its approval for their colleges. As already noted, appellant No. 1 filed the first application, divulging the relevant details of the bank loan and the mortgage over the leased land, but he failed to do so in the third application filed by him. Appellant No. 2 filed the second application with the same non-disclosure but there is no evidence whatsoever of the appellants resorting to deception in that regard willfully and in connivance with each other. Therefore, the charge under Section 120B IPC also does not withstand judicial scrutiny. xxxxxx 26. On the above analysis we are of the opinion that the learned Magistrate was fully justified in exercising power under Section 239 Cr.P.C.and discharging the appellants from criminal proceedings in relation to Case No. 456 of 2012. The High Court adopted a rather technical approach and practically concluded that the appellants were guilty of deliberately withholding relevant information so as to secure the approvals by deceitful means. This finding of the High Court is not supported by the admitted facts, which indicate disclosure of the mortgage at the outset when the first application was made and, therefore, there is no possibility of inferring that the appellants conspired in terms of Section120A IPC to commit an illegal act of suppression so as to secure the approvals. Further, the AICTE itself never claimed that it was dishonestly induced to grant such approvals and that essential link is altogether missing, whereby any such criminal charge of cheating can be sustained against the appellants. The impugned order dated 20.01.2023 passed by the Allahabad High Court in Application u/s 482 Cr.P.C. No. 11426 of 2021 is, therefore, set aside and the order of discharge passed by the learned Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI Court, Ghaziabad, in Case No. 456 of 2012 is restored. In consequence, the appellants shall stand discharged of the alleged offence under Sections 420 and 120B IPC in Case Crime No. 219 of 2011 (E) 0016." 14. Referred paragraphs of judgment passed in the case of Ramandeep Singh v. State of U.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine All 7500, are as under:- 42. On a reading of the aforesaid section, it is manifest that in the definition there are two separate classes of acts which the person deceived may be induced to do. In the first class of acts he may be induced fraudulently or dishonestly to deliver property to any person. The second class of acts is the doing or omitting to do anything which the person deceived would not do or omit to do if he were not so deceived. In the first class of cases, the inducing must be fraudulent or dishonest. In the second class of acts, the inducing must be intentional but need not be fraudulent or dishonest. Therefore, it is the intention which is the gist of the offence. To hold a person guilty of cheating it is necessary to show that he had a fraudulent or dishonest intention at the time of making the promise. From his mere failure to subsequently keep a promise, one cannot presume that he all along had a culpable intention to break the promise from the beginning." xxxxxxx 27. Moreover, as laid down in Inder Mohan Goswami case (2007) 12 SCC 1:(2008) 1 SCC (Cri) 259, to constitute the offence of cheating, the intention to deceive should remain present from the very beginning of the transaction. In the present case, M/s S.K. Associates purchased the property in the year 2003, and sold it in 2021/2022, after nearly 18 years. When it purchased the property, the name of the successors/legal heirs of the erstwhile tenure-holders was duly recorded in the Revenue records; M/s S.K. Associates had no reason to suspect that it was purchasing land in which its vendors did not have title. It was after M/s S.K. Associates had entered into the sale transaction in 2021/2022 that for the first time, it was accused of conveying land that belonged to the Bareilly Development Authority. xxxxxxxx 95. The Supreme Court in R.K. Vijayasarathy v. Sudha Seetharam (2019) 16 SCC 739:(2020) 2 SCC (Cri) 454: 2019 INSC 216 has culled out the ingredients to constitute the offence under Sections 415 IPC are as follows : (SCC pp. 745-746, paras 16-17 and 19-20)
 
 "16.The ingredients to constitute an offence of cheating are as follows: SUBMISSIONS 4. The learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant stated that the appellant is the constituted attorney of Vidhya Natekar and Sanjay Natekar, the vendors under the sale deeds subject matter of the impugned FIR. He submitted that the 4th respondent in his complaint had accepted co-ownership of the vendors in respect of the subject property under the sale deeds. Learned senior counsel submitted that a complaint was filed by the 4th respondent more than two years after the date of institution of the civil suit. Learned senior counsel pointed out how Sacarama Sadassiva Natecar became the owner of the subject property based on documents executed in the years 1928 and 1929. He submitted that Vidhya Natekar and Sanjay Natekar are the legal representatives of Sacarama Sadassiva Natecar. He submitted that both claimed a half share in the subject property in view of the regime of the communion of assets applicable in the State of Goa. He pointed out that, on 10th May 2013, the appellant had published a public notice calling for objections from any interested party concerning the subject property. xxxxxxxxx
 
 CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 8.We have carefully perused one of the sale deeds, which is the subject matter of the impugned FIR. The sale deeds are similar. The appellant signed the sale deed as the constituted attorney of Vidhya Natekar and Sanjay Natekar and also in his capacity as a confirming party. The said power of attorney executed by Vidhya Natekar and Sanjay Natekar in favour of the appellant contains a recital that the executants, i.e., Vidhya Natekar and Sanjay Natekar, are the co-owners of the subject property. The legal effect of the sale deeds which are the subject matters of the impugned FIR is that the ownership rights of Vidhya Natekar and Sanjay Natekar were transferred to the purchasers. 9. It is pertinent to note that civil suits were filed by the 4th respondent in October 2018. In the suits, he claims to be a co-owner or person with an undivided share in the subject property. Two years after the institution of the said suits, the constituted attorney of the 4th respondent filed a complaint with the Superintendent of Police on 23rd October 2020. In the complaint, she stated that the subject property was originally owned by the predecessor of the 4th respondent and Sadashiv Natekar. In paragraph 5 of the complaint, the constituted attorney of the 4th respondent stated thus: (emphasis added)
 
 It is pertinent to note that the constituted attorney of the 4th respondent has omitted to mention in the complaint that two years before the filing of the complaint, declaratory suits were filed by the 4th respondent, which were pending. Interestingly, two years after the registration of the FIR, on 13th October 2022, the 4th respondent filed a supplementary complaint with the police alleging that even the said Vidhya Natekar and Sanjay Natekar had also committed an offence. 10. Thus, in short, the grievance of the 4th respondent is that the vendors under the sale deeds had only an undivided share in the subject property, and they could not have sold the entire subject property under the sale deeds. The contention of the appellant is that what is sold is the right, title and interest of Vidhya Natekar and Sanjay Natekar. Thus, the dispute between the parties is predominantly a civil dispute. 11. Section 415 , which defines cheating, reads thus: Explanation.--A dishonest concealment of facts is a deception within the meaning of this section." 12. It is pertinent to note that the purchasers under the sale deeds have not made any grievance about the sale deeds. In the case of Mohd. Ibrahim v. State of Bihar , in paragraphs 20 to 23, this Court held thus: (emphasis added)
 
 12.1In this case, it is impossible to understand how the appellant deceived the 4th respondent and how the act of execution of sale deeds by the appellant caused or was likely to cause damage or harm to the 4th respondent in body, mind, reputation or property. The appellant has not purported to execute the sale deeds on behalf of the 4th respondent. He has not purported to transfer the rights of the 4th respondent. There is no allegation that the appellant deceived the 4th respondent to transfer or deliver the subject property. 13.Taking the complaint as correct, the offence of cheating under Section 415 of IPC was not made out against the appellant. Moreover, the complaint was filed by the 4th respondent for the first time after a time gap of two years from the date of institution of the civil suits. In the complaint, he suppressed the fact that civil suits were already filed in which applications for temporary injunction were made. When there was a dispute over the title, the act of the 4th respondent of setting in motion criminal law two years after the date of filing of the suits amounts to nothing but abuse of the process of law. 14. Considering the above, the appeal succeeds. The impugned judgment and order dated 1st March 2023 is set aside, and FIR No. 177 of 2020 initially registered with Pernem Police Station, Pernem in the State of Goa, and now transferred to the Special Investigation Team of the Economic Offences Cell, and proceedings based thereon are hereby quashed and set aside only as against the appellant. Accordingly, the appeal is allowed on the above terms. We clarify that we have made no adjudication on the merits of the pending civil dispute between the parties." 16. Considered the aforesaid and perused the record. 17. From the documents available on record including the case diary, this Court finds that allegations, in nutshell, against the applicant are to the effect that being Gram Pradhan the applicant verified the contents of the affidavit of co-accused Chandra Prakash Vishwakarma whose intention was to get benefit of scheme known as 'Pradhanmantri Gramin Awas Yojana', which was provided to him and subsequently he returned the same. In this regard relevant portion(s) of the case diary is extracted hereinunder:- 18. Taking note of the aforesaid as also the essential ingredients to attract the offence under Section 420 IPC and observations made by the Hon'ble Apex Court in this regard in the various pronouncements, indicated above, as also the impugned order(s) this Court finds that neither the Magistrate nor the Revisional Court has taken note of the aforesaid facts of the case in its true spirit and further these courts for coming to the conclusion that applicant is not liable to discharge have not recorded reasons after considering the facts of the case and law on the subject despite the settled principle of law that reasons being heart beat of an order are required to be recorded. 19. The recording of reasons are necessary. It is well known that "conclusions" and "reasons" are two different things and reasons must show mental exercise of authorities in arriving at a particular conclusion. 20. Reasons substitute subjectivity by objectivity. The emphasis on recording reasons is that if the decision reveals the 'inscrutable face of the sphinx', it can be its silence, render it virtually impossible for the Courts to perform their appellate function or exercise the power of judicial review in adjudging the validity of the decision. Right to reason is an indispensable part of a sound judicial system, reasons at least sufficient to indicate an application of mind to the later before Court. Another rationale is that the affected party can know why the decision has gone against him. One of the salutary requirements of natural justice is spelling out reasons for the order made. In other worlds, a speaking out. The inscrutable face of the sphinx' is ordinarily incongruous with a judicial or quasi-judicial performance. 21. In Breen Vs. Amalgamated Engg. Union, reported in 1971(1) AIIER 1148, it was held that the giving of reasons is one of the fundamentals of good administration. 22. In Alexander Machinery (Dudley) Ltd.Vs. Crabtress, reported in 1974(4) IRC 120 (NIRC) it was observed that "failure to give reasons amounts to denial of justice. Reasons are live links between the mind of the decision taker to the controversy in question and the decision or conclusion arrived at. 23. In Union of India Vs. Mohan Lal Kapoor (1973) 2 SCC 836, as under: 24. The Apex Court in the case of Uma Charan Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh & Anr. AIR 1981 SC 1915 said: 25. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of S.N. Mukherjee v. Union of India , AIR 1990 SC 1984, has explained that reasons are necessary links between the facts and the findings recorded in the administrative orders, which visit a party with evil civil consequences. In absence of reasons such an order cannot be permitted to stand. 26. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Raj Kishore Jha v. State of Bihar and others , (2003) 11 SCC 519, has held that reasons are the heartbeat of every conclusion and without the same, it becomes lifeless. 27. The Supreme Court in State of Orissa v. Dhaniram Luhar (2004) 5 SCC 568 while dealing with the criminal appeal, insisted that the reasons in support of the decision was a cardinal principle and the High Court should record its reasons while disposing of the matter. The Court held as under: 28. In Mc Dermott International Inc. Vs. Burn Standard Co. Ltd. & Ors. (2006) 11 SCC 181 Apex Court referring to Bachawat's Law of Arbitration and Conciliation, 4th Edn., pp. 855-56 in para 56 said: 29. In State of Rajasthan v. Rajendra Prasad Jain , (2008)15 SSC 711 stated that 'reason is the heartbeat of every conclusion, and without the same it becomes lifeless.' 30. The Apex Court in Kranti Associates Private Limited & Anr. Vs. Masood Ahmed Khan & Ors. (2010) 9 SCC 496 referring to the judgment in Mohan Lal Capoor (supra) in para(s) 23 and 47 said: 31. The Apex Court also in Competition Commission of India Vs. Steel Authority of India Ltd. & Anr. JT 2010 (10) SC 26 in para 68 referring to the judgment in the case of Gurdial Singh Fijji (supra) said: 32. It is well settled that an order without valid reasons cannot be sustained. To give reasons is the rule of natural justice. Highlighting this rule, Hon'ble Supreme Court held in the case of The Secretary & Curator, Victoria Memorial v. Howrah Ganatantrik Nagrik Samity and ors., JT 2010(2)SC 566 para 31 to 33 as under : 33. Non recording of reasons, non consideration of admissible evidence or consideration of inadmissible evidence renders the order to be unsustainable. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Chandana Impex Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi , 2011(269)E.L.T. 433 (S.C.), held as under : 34. Considering the facts and the reasons indicated in paragraph(s) 17 and 18 , respectively, of this judgment as also the law related to Section 420 IPC and principle settled on the issue of recording of reasons in the order, this Court is of the view that the present application is liable to be allowed. Accordingly, allowed. The order dated 15.03.2023 passed by the Magistrate and the order dated 23.11.2024 passed by the Revisional Court, are hereby set aside. 35. The matter is remanded back to the Magistrate, who shall consider and decide the application of the applicant seeking discharge a fresh. Order Date :- 31.01.2025
 
Jyoti/-