This suo motu Bench has been constituted after

 taking judicial notice of the print and social media publications

 of the content of an order dated 28th of August, 2019 passed in

 Cr. Misc. No.4117 of 2018 by a learned Single Judge after

 having got it listed as per his oral directions under the heading
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 2/23 "To Be Mentioned" on 28th of August, 2019. The Chief Justice on the administrative side upon

 having noticed the circulation of the news on the internet and

 social media had on the basis of information received and

 concerns expressed by fellow members of the Bench had

 issued the following notice:- By order of the Hon'ble
 the Chief Justice
 Patna High Court,
 The 28th August, 2019

 We had commenced the hearing at 10:30 A.M.

 when after half an hour we were informed that the order has

 been uploaded on the High Court website from the office of

 the Hon'ble Judge. We accordingly, summoned the file of Cr.

 Misc. No. 4117 of 2018 that has been placed before us. The Court Master concerned Mr. Braj Bhushan

 Kumar was summoned by us in person, who has stated in

 writing upon an explanation called upon from him on the

 administrative side, which is to the following effect, and was

 transcribed by him during the proceedings of the Court before

 this Bench. The same is extracted hereinunder:- He has also handed over a photostat copy of the

 Bench slip said to have been issued by him and was

 reportedly sent to the Listing Department through Mr. Sumit

 Kumar, Peon, and was entertained in the Listing Department

 either by Mr. Binod Kumar or Mr. Satya Prakash, who are in-

 charge of listing of such matters on directions given by Court

 Masters on the instructions of an Hon'ble Judge. The Court

 Master also stated that the Hon'ble Judge had summoned the

 file for perusal a couple of days ago and had studied the same.

 It is, therefore, evident that the preparation appears to have

 commenced a couple of days prior to the passing of the order. There is no written order nor any application nor

 any proceeding on the strength whereof the said listing was

 directed, and as is evident from the opening paragraph of the

 order dated 28th of August, 2019, the aforesaid statement made

 by the concerned Court Master stands confirmed that the

 entire exercise of getting the case listed before the learned
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 5/23 Judge was on his oral directions, without there being any

 proceeding pending in this regard in the case concerned which

 had been finally disposed off on 23rd of March, 2018. We have heard the learned Advocate General Shri

 Lalit Kishore, the learned A.S.G.I. Shri S.D. Sanjay, learned

 Senior Counsel Shri Y.V. Giri, Shri Yogesh Chandra Verma,

 learned Senior Counsel and Chairman of the Coordination

 Committee of the three Bar Associations, as well as Shri Anjani

 Kumar, learned Additional Advocate General, who fortunately

 was present during the dictation of the order by the learned

 Single Judge yesterday. They all have expressed their concern

 and anguish about the passing of this order and have prayed

 that the order dated 28.8.2019 does not deserve to be sustained.

 They have also informed that none of them were heard and

 Shri Anjani Kumar, learned Additional Advocate General had

 only tendered an information about the bail having been

 granted to the applicant on the same day. No counsel either on

 behalf of the bail applicant was informed and most surprisingly

 no one represented anyone against whom sweeping comments

 have been made in the entire order. The Cr. Misc. case which has been disposed off

 was a matter relating to an anticipatory bail under Section 438
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 6/23 Cr. P. C. This was, therefore, a pure anticipatory bail

 proceeding which stood terminated with the passing of the final

 order on 23rd of March, 2018. Some facts relating to the criminal case appears to

 have been noticed by a learned Single Judge while deciding a

 writ petition wherein certain directions were issued. Against

 the orders passed by the learned Single Judge in respect of the

 applicant of the bail application, L.P.A. No.438 read with 439

 of 2019 was filed before a Division Bench of this Court.

 During the pendency of the appeals, the said applicant had also

 approached the Apex Court seeking relief of bail at that very

 stage which ultimately culminated in the passing of the order

 by a Division Bench of this Court in the aforesaid Letters

 Patent Appeals on 22nd of April, 2019 that stands reported in

 2019 (3) P.L.J.R. 357. We are mentioning this fact for the reason that

 after the passing of the final order on 23rd of March, 2018

 rejecting the anticipatory bail, the matter had moved much

 further and had culminated into the passing of the orders by the

 Apex Court and the Division Bench, and then subsequently a

 bail order by the Court below with regard to which an anguish

 has been expressed by the learned Judge in the order dated 28 th
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 7/23 of August, 2019. We are mentioning these facts in order to

 gather the status of jurisdiction of the learned Single Judge to

 have proceeded in the matter after the proceedings had been

 terminated on 23rd of March, 2018. We find that the learned Single Judge committed

 the gravest of error by assuming a jurisdiction which was not

 available to him under any law for the time being in force, not

 even by any administrative order of the Chief Justice. In the

 absence of any judicial proceeding pending or otherwise, there

 was no occasion for the learned Single Judge to have assumed

 an authority which he otherwise did not possess on the subject

 matter either under the Patna High Court Rules or even under

 the Code of Criminal Procedure . This very assumption of

 jurisdiction, therefore, stands explained with the facts on record

 that the learned Single Judge got the case listed suo motu

 before him and has thereafter passed the order dated 28 th of

 August, 2019 which is under consideration before this Bench. After the order was passed and even before the

 order was uploaded, the news print, the social media as well as

 the entire world had been informed of the passing of the order

 of the learned Single Judge with almost its exact content, and

 which stood published in no uncertain terms in several Dailies,
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 8/23 including the Times of India, Dainik Jagaran, Dainik Bhaskar

 and other Newspapers. We have placed the same on record

 while taking cognizance of this matter. A perusal of the order

 which has been uploaded during the course of the hearing of

 this matter, we find that the same does not materially differ

 from the news item and contains more details which deserves

 to be dealt with immediately for reasons hereinafter. Howsoever unpleasant a task may be, and to

 whatever extent we may feel that this should never have

 happened, what brings us together to assemble and deliberate,

 is the cause for upholding the rule of law and smooth

 administration of justice. We should not in the least be

 misunderstood to be insensitive or averse to the concerns

 expressed by the learned Single Judge (Hon'ble Mr. Justice

 Rakesh Kumar) in his order reported to have been pronounced

 in open Court on 28th of August, 2019, as we believe that in the

 discharge of our onerous duty to live and stand by the oath that

 we have taken, we should not hesitate in taking prompt action

 and allow the recurrence of any such irreparable damaging

 judicial acts so as to undermine the whole judicial system on

 the strength of an individual's private prejudices founded on

 his perception of past history and relentless obsessions that
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 9/23 appear to have been expressed in a language that is not only

 brine, but is malicious, contumacious, demeaning and

 completely insensitive to the living and dead alike. The atmosphere of the Court is engulfed in a pall

 of gloom as if this bench is dictating its own reference, but then

 that is a compulsion, as extraordinary situations require

 extraordinary remedies. We, therefore, prima facie, find this

 case both of a miscellaneous nature which deserves to be

 entertained in the exercise of special extraordinary jurisdiction

 of this Court that is traceable to Article 226 of the Constitution

 of India read with Clause 10 of the Letters Patent of the Patna

 High Court Rules whereunder an order without jurisdiction and

 which is completely coram non judice as in the present case

 could be appealed against as it entails serious civil and evil

 consequences. We, therefore, direct the office to register this

 case as a Miscellaneous M.J.C. before the Special Bench of 11

 Judges. The facts that appear to have been unmindfully

 unfolded as reported, casts aspersions on the Institution and

 Judges in particular that can be imagined in a free society these

 days, but certainly not from a Judge of the same Court through

 an unwarranted judicial order in a finally disposed off matter
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 10/23 where the learned Single Judge, in our humble opinion had

 become functus officio, as would be evident from the facts

 narrated in this order, and appears to have acted completely

 coram non judice. The order passed by the learned Single

 Judge, therefore, in our view, is a total nullity in the eyes of

 law. The learned Single Judge has stepped out far ahead and

 has set an inglorious bench mark in the history of the Patna

 High Court by wielding his pen like an unmerciful sword as

 that of a committed revolutionary, who has set out to change

 the course of history by flouting settled standards of judicial

 propriety and the sobriety expected of a High Court Judge. The

 language of the news that has spread like wild fire, is clearly

 instigating, enough to pollute the readers mind and disrupt

 healthy social thinking. The tenor and terminology of the

 expression may not be literally abusive, but are certainly

 defamatory, uncouth and uncivil. We may gainfully extract the offending portions

 of the judgment giving rise to this Special Bench, whereunder

 the learned Single Judge has made comments far beyond the

 scope of an anticipatory bail application. In Paragraph 6 of the

 judgment, the Hon'ble Judge observed that in normal course

 he would not have passed such order. It is thereafter that he
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 11/23 begins to express his dissent about an incident in the Patna

 Judgeship without even disclosing the contents of the

 resolutions passed by the Standing Committee. To the

 contrary, he has reproduced the contents of an allegation

 petition which is already subject matter of a Public Interest

 Litigation filed by the same person and is being continuously

 listed before a Division Bench of this Court. It is surprising

 that in spite of the fact that the said case is still being listed

 and is again to come up in the next week, the learned Judge is

 insisting upon his own point of view and has issued directions

 for an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation. We may

 put on record that the learned Single Judge without even

 examining the ratio of the various judgments of the Apex

 Court including the latest judgment in the case of Shree Shree

 Ram Janki Ji Asthan Tapovan Mandir and another Vs.

 State of Jharkhand and others , reported in (2019) 6 SCC

 777 has himself issued a direction in spite of the fact that he

 had no jurisdiction to deal with a subject matter which was

 totally alien in the Anticipatory Bail in which he had

 proceeded to pass the order. He has then in Paragraph 12 of the order

 described an incident of his experience as Standing Counsel
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 12/23 of the Central Bureau of Investigation. Paragraph 12 of the

 order is extracted hereinunder:- We fail to understand as to what had that incident

 anything to do with the matter in which this order has been

 passed and as to the nature of the jurisdiction that the Judge

 wanted to exercise to express himself. The learned Judge has

 made references to former Judges some of whom are no more

 in this world. The reference to the Allahabad High Court had

 absolutely no nexus with the subject matter before the learned

 Single Judge. Then again, the learned Single Judge describes

 himself to be self righteous and then has assumed that he can

 write anything and everything about the entire system

 including his colleagues, former or sitting, if it crosses his

 self- defined boundaries of righteousness. Thereafter, the learned Single Judge in the name

 of corruption has mentioned that on the judicial side he had

 gone through a number of Cr. Appeals in which judgments

 were reserved by an Hon'ble Judge who was transferred from

 Patna and who did not pronounce the judgments even though

 it had been reserved in the year 2017. We fail to understand
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 15/23 the connection of this disclosure with the subject matter in

 dispute. We have come across orders on the judicial side of

 the learned Single Judge (Hon'ble Mr. Justice Rakesh Kumar)

 who reserved judgment in Misc. Appeal No. 755 of 2009 on

 22nd of September, 2014 and then after almost one year the

 same was released on 1st of October, 2015. The said orders

 which are available on the website of the High Court are

 extracted hereinunder:- Judgment reserved. (Rakesh Kumar, J.)

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA
 Miscellaneous Appeal No.755 of 2009
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 16/23 ====================================================
 Geeta Devi & Ors. ... ... Appellant/s
 Versus
 Most. Asha @ Indu Devi & Ors. ... ... Respondent/s
 ===================================================
 Appearance : (Rakesh Kumar, J.)

 We can only observe that when one kindles fire

 then the smoke usually enters his nose first. He has then

 mentioned about a complaint in a Sub Divisional Court which

 he had come to know about. We again are surprised as to how

 the said complaint had got anything to do with the subject

 matter of the case in which this suo motu action was being

 taken by him. The learned Judge then has proceeded to talk

 about allotment of bungalows in Paragraph 18 of the

 impugned judgment. Surprisingly enough as per the
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 17/23 administrative record of the High Court, the learned Single

 Judge himself had got a bungalow allotted with expenditures

 made during his stay between 2010 to 2017. Apart from this, the learned Single Judge himself

 was given the mantle of the Chairman of the Purchase

 Committee who has time and again in the administrative files

 of the High Court sanctioned and approved such expenditures

 which are undertaken by the State Government and not by the

 High Court. The bungalows are maintained by the State

 Government out of its own exchequer and it is for the State

 Government to prepare the budget and spend money thereon.

 If the learned Single Judge had any complaint about any

 expenditure being made by the Government, there could have

 been any such expression, but we have been unable to locate

 any such material that may have been mentioned in the order

 to substantiate the same. The reference to such matters is

 reckless and nowhere concerned with the subject matter of

 this dispute. He has then in Paragraph 19 mentioned about the

 ward of some Judge having taken classes in the Bihar Judicial

 Academy for which he was paid honorarium. The learned

 Judge has nowhere indicated that the said ward had thrust
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 18/23 himself or had forcibly entered the Bihar Judicial Academy

 for taking classes. The learned Judge himself was the

 Chairman of the Bihar Judicial Academy till 17 th of August,

 2019. We are surprised at such sweeping comments having

 been made which are totally out of context. He has then mentioned about the conduct of

 administrative proceedings in disciplinary matters in

 Paragraph 20 of the judgement which is subject matter of

 consideration by the Hon'ble Standing Committee of which

 the learned Judge himself is a member. His own personal

 views are something totally against the collective opinion of a

 responsible body of the High Court headed by the Chief

 Justice. We have not been able to understand as to how the

 administrative functioning of the High Court in disciplinary

 matters had anything to do with the subject matter of an

 Anticipatory Bail Application. By a strange reason or logic he has drawn an

 inference about protection being given to the officers of the

 Subordinate Judiciary by the High Court. The comment is

 preposterous and with no basis. In Paragraph 22 of his order he has made

 scathing remarks against his colleague Judges who fortunately
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 19/23 had passed together in the year 1986 from the Law College.

 This has absolutely no relevance to the controversy and then

 by taking a leap he has also commented upon the association

 of the Chief Justice with some Judges in a thoroughly

 indecent language which has no foundation. This is the

 illustrative rainbow depiction of the order that has compelled

 us to proceed in the matter. Unfortunately those who have been castigated, if

 they are alive, have not been heard, and those who are dead, by

 providence and nature stand precluded from defending

 themselves. Such uncharity unleashed appears to be definitely

 an outcome of some personal prejudice that may have its

 genesis in a personal background as the utterances and

 overtures, as recorded and reported already in the print and

 social media, are full of anguish tending towards vengeance

 and not real reform. A sudden leap in the sky through an

 approach of gaining yellow page fame appears to be one of the

 motives behind the pronouncement. This, however, in our opinion is not akin to

 judicial conduct of a constitutional functionary to go to the

 extent of imputing personal motives and casting insinuations
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 20/23 on all those who are past or even the present. That too even in a

 matter in which the learned Single Judge had no jurisdiction.

 The mention of some Judges, who either adorned the office as

 occupied by the learned Judge himself, at Patna or even in a

 neighbouring State, and some of whom are no longer in this

 world, did not deserve the oblations that have been offered to

 them. This sort of determined judicial oratory, which is more in

 the nature of street- sloganeering and high pitched rhetoric is

 not meant to sound a judicial reform, but to belittle others with

 whom the learned Single Judge appears to have some personal

 grudge or prejudice- may be for reasons of professional envy in

 the past, caste prejudice or on account of some idiosyncrasies

 which the learned Judge may himself be aware of. Personal carping and unceremonious comments on

 all and sundry alike seems to be drowned in some sort of

 personal belief of the learned Judge that whatever he has

 perceived from his experience is all 24 carat truth, and the rest

 of the world, except himself, has created all the misery around.

 The description is to malign which ought not to have been

 expressed while occupying a judicial seat with a specified

 limited jurisdiction, that too in a matter in which for the time

 being he had no jurisdiction at all. The learned Judge has
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 21/23 ventilated himself on the belief that but for him, the sky is the

 limit, little remembering that there are many more destinations

 beyond the horizon. The entire order is a burning example of

 the violations of principles of natural justice, judicial

 impropriety and a malicious tirade in the name of some crusade

 in the opinion of the Judge. The learned Judge has ordained

 himself to be the only mentor of all his perceptions about

 different forms of infamy without having the courtesy of the

 view point of others. The thoughts that pervade the

 pronouncement seem to believe that the personal impressions

 of the learned Judge are the only truth, and that the rest of the

 world is oblivious of the ills of society. This may have impelled

 the learned Judge to trumpet his voice, but in our humble

 opinion, from a totally inappropriate altar through somewhat

 besmirching gossip. This is designed to shake the confidence of

 the public in the judiciary and to lower its esteem to levels that

 may amount contemptuous. A Judge functioning at any level has dignity in the

 eyes of public and credibility of the entire system is dependent

 on the use of dignified language, sustained restraint,

 moderation and sobriety. Independence of judiciary has been

 an insegregable and inseparable link with its credibility.
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 22/23 To cast a slur and to figuratively assassinate your

 own brethren should be avoided in all judicial pronouncements

 but the pride of the learned single Judge has manifested itself

 so profusely, forgetting the Bible that who judges others,

 condemns himself and a word spoken is an arrow let fly. Having said so, the Bench finds this to be a painful

 task to perform, but, nonetheless, it deserves to be performed in

 the circumstances given above. When we have to take a just

 stand to uphold the majesty of the Institution, an individual

 Judge's identity is inconsequential. We are, therefore, left with

 no other option but to suspend the entire order dated 28th of

 August, 2019 with a further direction that the file of the case

 shall not be placed before the learned Single Judge nor any

 such directions given by him which as explained above are

 coram non judice shall be implemented by any authority nor

 shall be dispatched as desired by him. We, therefore, part with

 this case at the moment for a date to be fixed in future and for

 further directions in the matter. The order may be brought to the notice of the Chief

 Justice for taking appropriate steps on the administrative side. (Amreshwar Pratap Sahi, CJ)
 Patna High Court MJC No.3659 of 2019(2) dt.29-08-2019 23/23 ( Vikash Jain, J)

 ( Chakradhari Sharan Singh, J)

 ( Prabhat Kumar Jha, J)

 ( Anjana Mishra, J)

 ( Ashutosh Kumar, J)

 ( Birendra Kumar, J)

 ( Vinod Kumar Sinha, J)

 ( Anil Kumar Upadhyay, J)

 ( Rajeev Ranjan Prasad, J)

 ( Sanjay Kumar, J)

 AFR
Sunil/K.C.Jha/P.K.P.
 U