TEJINDER SINGH DHINDSA.J (Oral)

 Plaintiff Smt. Chameli widow of Tara Chand through her L.Rs

filed a suit for declaration to the effect that they are owners in possession of

agricultural land total measuring 80 kanals 10 marlas and as detailed in the

plaint situated in the revenue estate of Village Manheri, Tehsil & District

Bhiwani and that mutation no.3154 sanctioned on 18.4.1994 in favour of

defendant no.1 Bhim Singh and subsequent revenue record including all

Jamabandis and Khasra Girdawaris on the basis of said mutation no.3154

as also sale deed no.6298 dated 8.9.2006 executed by defendant no.1 Bhim

Singh in favour of defendants no.2 to 4 namely Ved Parkash, Sat Parkash

and Sunil Kumar registered on 8.9.2006 are null, void, based on fraud and

misrepresentation and were not binding on the rights of the plaintiffs.

Further relief of injunction was sought restraining the defendants from

interfering into the peaceful, actual and cultivating possession of the

plaintiff over the suit land. Suit was dismissed by the Trial Court vide order

dated 22.5.2014 and the counter claim on behalf of the defendants to the

extent that they were in possession of 57 kanals 9 marlas of suit land and the

plaintiffs are restrained from creating any disturbance in possession thereof,

 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 12-08-2018 15:29:45 ::: RSA-4267-2017 (O&M) -2-

was allowed. Civil appeal having been preferred, the learned Additional

District Judge, Bhiwani in terms of judgement dated 3.2.2017 has set aside

the judgement of the Trial Court and the suit filed by the plaintiff has been

decreed. Resultantly, defendant Bhim Singh is in second appeal before

this Court. Mr. Anurag Jain, counsel representing the appellant, at the very

outset, submits that as regards ownership of the suit property he would not

have much to argue. However, with regard to possession thereof it is

contended that the Lower Appellate Court has erred in overlooking the

evidence adduced on record and which would reflect that the appellant had

been shown in cultivating possession of the land in question. It is argued

that in the Jamabandi for the year 2001-2002 Ex. P-5 as well as Khasra

Girdwari Ex.P-8 crop Kharif 2002 to Rabi 2006 appellant was recorded in

possession of 80 kanals 10 marlas and such documents carried presumption

of truth being documents of record of rights. It is contended that the entry

of possession in such records could not have been brushed aside by the

Lower Appellate Court. Reliance has also been placed upon the judgements

of the Apex Court in Mehar Chand Das Vs. Lal Babu Siddique and others,

2007( 2) R.C.R (Civil) 628 and Vinay Krishna Vs. Keshav Chandra and

others , AIR 1993 S.C, 957 to contend that if a plaintiff is not in possession,

then, a suit for mere declaration would not be maintainable. Having heard counsel for the appellant at length and having

perused the case paper book, I am of the considered view that the instant

appeal is without merit and deserves to be dismissed. A brief factual matrix and which is not in dispute may be

noticed. Mangal Singh son of Sheo Bax was owner in possession of land

measuring 82 kanals 13 marlas as per Jamabandi for the year 1986-1987

Ex. P-2. In his life time he sold land measuring 1 kanal 1 marla and as such

at the time of his death he remained owner in possession of 81 kanals 12

marlas i.e. the suit land whose mutation of inheritance Ex. P-1 was entered

and sanctioned in the name of his widow Amar Bai as he had died issueless. Counsel does not controvert that upon death of Amar Bai,

appellant herein Bhim Singh had filed civil suit no.840 of 1991 titled as

"Bhim Singh Vs. Phoolpati and others" and wherein he had sought a

declaratory decree of ownership over the suit land on the basis of a Will

dated 16.6.1990. The suit was dismissed vide judgement and decree dated

11.5.1998 by the then Civil Judge (Jr. Divn.), Bhiwani and findings were

returned that after the death of Amar Bai the property was inherited by Tara

Chand and since Tara Chand died during the pendency of the suit, hence,

his wife Chameli Devi was entitled to inherit the suit land. Bhim Singh

(appellant herein) filed a civil appeal against the judgement and decree

dated 11.5.1998 passed by the Trial Court but the same was dismissed on

29.11.2001 by the District Judge, Bhiwani. Even the Regular Second

Appeal preferred by Bhim Singh was dismissed by this Court on 24.9.2004.

The judgements passed by the Trial Court, Lower Appellate Court and this

Court in Regular Second Appeal were duly placed on record and exhibited

as Ex.P-11 to P-14. It would be apposite to take note that in the previous round of

litigation Bhim Singh/present appellant had also sought relief of permanent

injunction to restrain Phoolpati, Chameli Devi and others from alienating

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 12-08-2018 15:29:45 ::: RSA-4267-2017 (O&M) -4-

the suit land in any manner and from creating any interference in his

possession over the suit land. Even such relief had been denied and the

findings pertaining to possession were also returned against Bhim Singh and

which have since attained finality. Even though, counsel would lay much stress on Jamabandi

Ex.P-5 and Khasra Girdawari Ex.P-8 which were subsequent to the

judgement and decree passed by the Trial Court against Bhim Singh and

would urge that the same reflected possession of the appellant over the suit

property, yet, the Lower Appellate Court has rightfully rejected such plea by

observing that no evidence had been adduced on record to reflect as to on

what basis he had been delivered physical and cultivating possession of the

suit land after death of Amar Bai. It has been conceded by the counsel that

Nehri Girdawari or Abyana Receipt had not been produced inspite of the

ownership being in favour of the plaintiffs/respondents. Under such circumstances there would have no warrant for

interference in the impugned judgement dated 3.2.2017 passed by the Lower

Appellate Court and whereby the judgement of the Trial Court has been set

aside and suit of the plaintiffs/respondents has been decreed. Even the reliance placed by counsel upon the judgements in

Mehar Chand Das and Vinay Krishna's cases (supra), is wholly misplaced

and would have no applicability to the facts of the present case. Suffice it to

observe that if in a given set of facts and circumstances the plaintiff filed a

suit showing himself to be in possession, then a suit for mere declaration

would be maintainable. In the present case findings with regard to

possession of the suit land had been recorded by the competent court in the

previous lis between the parties and such findings had attained finality. The instant appeal is without merit. No question of law much

less a substantial question of law is involved in the present appeal. The appeal is dismissed.