1. The present petition has been filed by the petitioner under

Section 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (For short

"BNSS") seeking regular bail in the FIR mentioned below:- 2. As per the prosecution case, the complainant Daljit Singh

lodged a complaint alleging therein that he was owner of Global Travels

which was engaged in the business of selling Air Tickets. From past few

months, he had been buying air tickets for his customers from accused

 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 15-12-2024 04:31:42 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:166602 CRM-M No.56367 of 2024 -2- Amit Kumar i.e. the present petitioner and co-accused Harpreet Singh. Air

tickets worth Rs. 1,50,00,000/- had been purchased by him from the present

petitioner and above accused and the amount due was deposited in their

respective bank accounts. The complainant alleged that fifty of such air

tickets which had been purchased by him for his customers, from the present

petitioner-Amit Kumar and accused Harpreet Singh, were found to have

been got cancelled by them subsequently. The customers came to know

about this fact when they reached at the airport and it was revealed that

whole of refund amount of those tickets had been taken on the day of

purchase itself. His customers were compelled to purchase tickets at much

higher prices and the complainant was made to give refund of the amount

paid by the customers, from his own pocket. The complainant contacted the

present petitioner and accused Harpreet Singh who while admitting their

wrong, promised to make good the loss by returning the amount given to

them for purchase of tickets but subsequently refused to do the same, while

extending threats. The complainant suffered loss to the tune of Rs.

60,00,000/- and his business reputation had also been lowered down due to

act and conduct of the present petitioner-Amit Kumar and accused Harpreet

Singh. 3. As per the allegations, FIR was registered. Investigation was

initiated and it was revealed that the present petitioner-Amit Kumar and

accused Harpreet Singh @ Gurwinder in connivance with each other, had

sold 120-125 tickets to the complainant. The amount of those tickets which

 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 15-12-2024 04:31:43 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:166602 CRM-M No.56367 of 2024 -3- was Rs. 1,17,20,000/- had been deposited by the complainant in the bank

account of 'World Wide Travels' run by accused Harpreet Singh @

Gurwinder. These accused subsequently got cancelled tickets worth Rs.

46,00,000/- and also forged some air tickets and had not given twenty seven

air tickets thereby causing huge loss of money to the complainant. It was

also revealed that the accused Harpreet Singh was also conniving with the

accused Kulwinder Singh and an amount of Rs. 1,30,000/- had been

deposited in the joint bank account of accused Harpreet Singh and

Kulwinder Singh, out of the amount paid by the customers of the

complainant/complainant. The petitioner had moved an application for grant

of regular bail, which was dismissed by the Court of learned Additional

Sessions Judge, Malerkotla vide order dated 24.10.2024. 4. It is argued by learned counsel for the petitioner that he has

been falsely implicated in this case. He has never worked with any of the

firms which have been named by the complainant nor he has remained office

holder of any such firm. He has no association whatsoever with these firms.

Neither his phone number nor his bank account have been used for the

purpose of making any payment by the complainant or any other person. The

mobile phone number with which transactions of money have been allegedly

made in favour of the petitioner, has not been connected with him at any

point of time. Rather the said number shows the name of one Gagandeep

Singh/Gagandeep Saini on "G-Pay". The allegations as levelled in the FIR,

even if considered to be correct, do not make out any case for commission of

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 15-12-2024 04:31:43 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:166602 CRM-M No.56367 of 2024 -4- offences of cheating, forgery or criminal breach of trust as against the

petitioner. His custodial interrogation is no more required. Challan has been

presented. Trial is likely to take time. His further detention would not serve

any useful purpose. The co-accused has been extended benefit of bail. With

these broad submissions, it is urged that the petition deserves to be allowed. 5. Status report has already been filed by the respondent-State. In

terms thereof, the learned Assistant Advocate General, Punjab assisted by

learned counsel for the complainant has argued that there are serious and

specific allegations against the petitioner who in connivance with the co-

accused was actively involved in commission of subject offences and had

cheated not only the complainant but several other persons by selling them

air tickets at the first instance but getting them cancelled subsequently and

misappropriated the amount received by way of refund and converted the

same to his own use. He is a habitual offender since as many as four other

cases of similar nature, have been registered against him. There are chances

of his absconding or committing similar offences, if extended benefit of bail.

The trial is going on at a proper pace. Gravity of the allegations is an

important factor for not extending benefit of bail to the petitioner. Therefore,

it is urged that the petition does not deserve to be allowed. 6. I have heard learned counsel for the parties at considerable

length and have gone through the record. 7. As per the allegations, the complainant Daljit Singh who

himself is running a travel agency and was engaged in the business of selling

 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 15-12-2024 04:31:43 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:166602 CRM-M No.56367 of 2024 -5- air tickets, used to purchase air tickets from the petitioner and had purchased

such tickets of the value of Rs.1,50,00,000/- from him during the period of

two months prior to lodging of the FIR. Subsequently, it was revealed that

50 fake air tickets had been issued by the petitioner. It was also found that

the petitioner had got the tickets purchased on behalf of the complainant,

cancelled subsequently and misappropriated the refund amount. Sufficient

evidence has been collected during the course of investigation to show that

the Google Pay account through which payments were made was connected

with a phone number which was used by the petitioner. The petitioner has

criminal antecedents. Investigation is still going on. He is kingpin of the

conspiracy hatched with the co-accused to cheat the complainant and other

public persons and to commit fraud. Keeping in view the nature of the

allegations as levelled against him, the quantum of sentence which the

conviction may entail and the attendant facts and circumstances but without

meaning to make any comment on the merits of the case, this Court is of the

considered opinion that the petitioner does not deserve to be extended

benefit of bail. Accordingly, the petition stands dismissed.