Present:- GB space Grey) to the complainant at `60/- only and further to pay

a consolidated amount of compensation and litigation expenses to

the tune of `2,000/- only. 2. It would be apposite to mention that hereinafter the

parties will be referred to, as have been arrayed before the District

Forum. Facts of the Complaint 3. The factual matrix of the matter in brief, as averred in

the complaint, are that the complainant placed an order of Apple

iphone 6 (16 GB -space Grey) with the OP No.1 on 09.03.2016

vide order number 1590099476 under the offer of the OP No.1.

The cost of the mobile set in question was `52,000/- and there

was a discount of `51,965/- on the same, as such, he was to pay

an amount of `35/- only with other charges in this way, he had to

pay an amount of `60/- only. It was further stated that the OP No.1

assured that they will dispatch the product on 9.3.2016 and the First Appeal No.905 of 2016 3 same would be delivered within 8/9 days. It was further stated that

the said amount was paid by him from the account of his cousin

brother Rakesh son of Tarsem Chand bearing account number

30764486101. It was further stated that he received an email

dated 10.09.2016 from the OP No.1 vide which his order was

cancelled. He requested OP No.1 number of times to deliver the

product, but all in vain. He also alleged that OP No.2 as the

merchant was equally liable for the negligence and unfair trade

practice. Thus, alleging deficiency in service and unfair trade

practice on the part of the OPs, the complainant prayed that the

OPs be directed to provide the mobile phone in question i.e. Apple

iphone 6 (16 GB) to him; to pay `50,000/- on account of mental

agony and physical harassment; and to pay `5,500/- as litigation

expenses. Defence of the Opposite Parties 4. Upon notice, OP No.1 filed its written reply and stated

that the OP No.1 neither sells nor offers to sell any products. It

merely provides a technology platform where independent third

party seller can list their products for sale. OP No.1 was neither

responsible for the products that were listed on the website nor

Paytm intervened or influenced any customer in any manner. It

was further stated that the OP No.1 was not a warrantor of the

product, nor was liable for any manufacturing defect. It was further

alleged that the complainant was not a consumer. There might be First Appeal No.905 of 2016 4 certain orders that Paytm Merchant partners were unable to

accept and service and these need to be cancelled. The

complainant had no cause of action to file the complaint and the

territorial jurisdiction of this Forum was also disputed. On merits, it

was stated that there was no privity of contract between the

complainant and Paytm. It was stated further that the OP duly

replied to the emails written by the complainant and informed the

complainant about the real picture and was informed that the order

of the complainant had been cancelled and the amount of `60/-

was refunded to the complainant. OP No.1 prayed for dismissal of

the complaint filed by the complainant. 5. Despite service, OP No.2 did not appear before the

District Forum, hence OP No.2 was proceeded ex-parte on

08.08.2016. Finding of the District Forum 6. Both the sides produced evidence in support of their

respective averments before the District Forum, which after going

through the same and hearing learned counsel on their behalf,

allowed the complaint against opposite parties, vide impugned

order. Hence, this appeal. Contentions of the Parties 7. We have heard learned counsel for the appellant as

respondent No.1 was proceeded ex-parte on 31.10.2017 and the

service of respondent No.2 was dispensed with vide order dated First Appeal No.905 of 2016 5 07.07.2017. We have carefully gone through the records of the

case. 8. Learned counsel for the appellant/opposite party No.1

vehemently contended that appellant, being the owner of the

website www.paytm.com and the Mobile Application 'Paytm',

which acts as a platform for different sellers like respondent No.2

to sell their products and for different buyers like respondent No.1

to access and purchase amongst variety of goods offered by

various sellers on the terms and conditions as enumerated by

them on the website of appellant/Paytm. Appellant/Paytm neither

sells nor offers to sell any products. It merely provides a

technology platform (an online marketplace) where independent

third party sellers i.e. respondent No.2) can list their products for

sale. The sellers themselves (and not Paytm) manage display of

their (sellers/merchants) goods, its pricing, its catalogue and

orders placed by customers online and are responsible for the

sale/purchase of their products on the website. Appellant is

neither responsible for the products that are listed on the website

by various third party sellers, nor does Paytm intervene or

influence any customers in any manner about its pricing etc.

Appellant/Paytm is not directly involved in the sale transaction

between the customer (respondent No.1) and seller (Respondent

No.2), which is exclusive domain of Merchant and customers.

Appellant has contended that District Forum has wrongly stated in

the impugned order at page 5 that the contract of purchase of First Appeal No.905 of 2016 6 Apple iPhone was concluded at the time when payment of `60/-

was made by the respondent No.1 and accepted by appellant.

The District Forum has also wrongly observed that it was not open

for OP No.1 (appellant) to cancel the order of its own without the

consent of the respondent No.1. The fact of the matter is that the

appellant is an intermediary as defined in the Section 79 of the

Information Technology Act, 2000, and exempted from liability for

third party information, data or communication link made available

or hosted by it, which is reproduced below :- Explanation- for the purpose of this section,
 the expression "third party information" means
 any information dealt with by an intermediary
 in his capacity as an intermediary. As stated
 above, being an intermediary. In view of the above, it is contended that the appellant/OP No.1

herein cannot be held liable for the act of Merchant i.e.

Respondent No.2, who has inadvertently, entered `35/- in the

column of MRP instead of quantity and entered `36,899/- in the

place of quantity instead of MRP. Learned counsel for the appellant relied upon the case

reported as " Harnam Singh and Ors. Vs. Smt. Purbi Devi and

Ors ", AIR 2000 HP 108, wherein it has been held as under :- It has been also agitated that the District Forum has failed to

consider the fact that the Merchant i.e. respondent No.2 in the

present appeal is solely responsible and liable for any complaints

and queries of Buyers with respect to the products booked. Hence

for any liability with respect to the ordered product lies with

respondent No.2. It is impossible for any intermediary like the

appellant herein to monitor millions of products being displayed on

its portal. The intermediary, upon receipt of a specific knowledge,

can only take actions of disabling the product in question from its

portal as per provisions contained in Information Technology

(Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules 2011 and as an extra caution,

though not bound by law to terminate the contractual relationship First Appeal No.905 of 2016 9 with the concerned merchant. It is further submitted that the

appellant has also, as a policy of fair play, blocked the merchant

from using the online platform provided by the appellant and has

also taken stringent action of delisting of concerned products of

the respondent No.2. Passing the judgment against the appellant

and ignoring such a vital fact is not judicious and is contrary to law.

It has been further alleged that the District Forum has allowed the

complaint and has directed both the opposite parties to provide the

ordered Apple i-phone 6 (16 GB) to the complainant at a price of

`60/- only along with the consolidated litigation cost and

compensation of `2,000/-. The fact of the matter is that,

admittedly, the amount of `60/- paid by the complainant at the time

of booking the order for purchasing the alleged product already

stands refunded vide transaction id.1688095602 on dated

10.03.2016 by the appellant and the same has also been

consumed by the complainant. Further the product booked was to

be supplied by the Merchant to the complainant as per the order

placed by the complainant. The appellant being merely an online

market place platform does not have any control or ownership of

the product under contention nor have any privity to contract and

the products are listed, packed and delivered by the sellers like

respondent No.2 themselves. Hence, it would not be in the

interest of justice to direct the appellant to supply the alleged

product for `60/- that too with no fault on the part of the appellant.

Even otherwise, the consumer complaint bearing no.340/2016 was First Appeal No.905 of 2016 10 not maintainable as respondent no.1 under the grab of claiming

deficiency of service against OP No.1 has prayed for specific

performance as follows which is not permissible in light of the

various judgments of the Apex Court. Appellant had specifically

made it clear to the respondent No.1 that certain orders booked on

the platform of appellant (Paytm), the seller are unable to accept

and service and these may need to be cancelled as per "Clause 6" It is pertinent to mention here that the appellant has simply stated

"unavoidable circumstances", as the reason for cancellation of the

order that too of their own without seeking the consent of the

complainant before cancelling the same. They have not produced

any evidence on the record to show that the seller i.e. Infinity

Infomatics P. Ltd. was responsible for the cancellation of the order.

It is assumed that there must have been some privity of contract First Appeal No.905 of 2016 16 between the seller and the appellant company due to which the

services of the appellant company were hired on payment basis by

the appellant company who being an online portal, were displaying

the products of the seller. We are of the view that the appellant

company cannot cancel the order of their own on vague grounds

as stated in the e-mail. 12. Appellant has interalia specifically raised certain

preliminary objections with regard to the maintainability of the

complaint, mis-joinder or non-joinder of necessary parties and the

law of governing the rule of intermediary that has been contended

by the counsel for the appellant. During the course of arguments,

the appellant has also referred to the section 79 of the Information

Technology Act and Intermediary Rules pleading that the

directions cannot be issued to the appellant being an Intermediary

between the consumer and the seller and also that it is not a

manufacturer. 13. No doubt, the role of the appellant is that of

intermediary in the present case but it cannot be said that they

have no role to play, as the harassment has been caused to the

complainant, due to the cancellation of the said ordered product.

It is general observation that the consumers are attracted by the

offers and displays of various products on the website of such kind

of appellant company and place their order on good faith. Online

market place company earn revenue each time a consumer click

and visit on their website. Moreover, the same is being done as First Appeal No.905 of 2016 17 per the terms and conditions between the online portal company

and the sellers for a consideration. Hence, if appellant company

can accept an order and subsequent cancellation also makes him

equally responsible and being deficient in rendering the services.

Therefore, the plea that the intermediary should not be held liable

for the acts of deficiency in service and unfair trade practice does

not find merit with us. 14. We have also gone through clause 6 of the terms and

conditions related to the cancellation policy of the appellant

company. It is our interpretation that the clause specifically also

states that the order may be cancelled due to "non-availability of

the product or quantities ordered, non-availability of the delivery

services in the address to which product is required to be shipped,

inaccuracies or errors in pricing information specified by merchant

partners or problems identified by Paytm's credit and fraud

avoidance department". An inference can be drawn that the said

order was cancelled without giving any specific reason and no

evidence has been placed on record to show the accountability of

the merchant seller in this case. The contention that complainant

has booked the order from an independent third party seller selling

its product on the website operated by the appellant, does not find

merit to infer that no harassment has been caused to the

complainant. 15. In view of the above discussions, the order dated

21.10.2016 passed by the District Forum, Sangrur is modified and

following directions are issued to OP No.1 :- and ii) to pay `2,000/- as litigation cost before this Commission

 and District Forum. Liberty is granted to OP No.1 to recover the said amount

from OP No.2 in accordance with law. 16. The appellant had deposited a sum of `1,030/- at the

time of filing of the appeal. This amount, along with interest, which

has accrued thereon, if any, be remitted by the registry to the

District Forum, after the expiry of 45 days of the sending of

certified copy of the order to them. The respondent No.1 may

approach the District Forum for the release of the above amount

and the District Forum may pass the appropriate order in this

regard, in accordance with law. 17. The case could not be decided within the statutory

period due to heavy pendency of Court cases. (JUSTICE PARAMJEET SINGH DHALIWAL)
 PRESIDENT

 (KIRAN SIBAL)
December 06, 2017. MEMBER
Lb/-