This first application has been filed by applicant under Section 483 of
 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for grant of bail in connection
 with Crime No. 655/2024 registered at Police Station-Mahakal District
 Ujjain (M.P.) for offence punishable under Section 318(4), 316(2) of
 Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023. Applicant is in judicial custody since

 27.12.2024. As per the case of prosecution, Moolchand Junval, Deputy
 Administrator of Mahakal Mandir Ujjain and Executive Magistrate, Ujjain,
 submitted a written complaint to SHO PS Mahakal inter-alia alleging fraud
 and criminal misappropriation by the employees of Mahakal Mandir Samiti. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:7583

 2 MCRC-1016-2025
 It is sated that in furtherance of earlier FIR dated 19.12.2024, the Sanitary
 Inspector Vinod Chouksey and the incharge of Nandi Hall Rakesh
 Shrivastava were apprehended. On search of their mobile phones certain
 online transaction through phone-pe and google pay were revealed. It was
 found that Vinod Chouksey and Rakesh Shrivastava were receiving illegal
 payment from the pilgrims and visitors on the pretext of Mahakal Darshan
 and Jal-abhishek. On such allegations, P.S. Mahakal registered FIR at crime
 No. 655/2024 for offence punishable under Sections 318(4), 316(2) of
 Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, against Vinod Chouksey and Rakesh Shrivastava.
 The mobile phones of Vinod Chouksey and Rakesh Shrivastava were seized.
 They informed that I.T. Incharge Raj Kumar Singh, Bhasma-Aarti Incharge
 Ritesh Sharma, Protocol Officer Abhishek Bhargav, Darshan Incharge

 Rajendra Sisodiya and security guard of Crystal Company Jitendra Panwar(
 applicant) and Omprakash Mali are their associates in facilitating the visitors
 and the pilgrims priority Darshan at Nandi Hall, after receiving the payment.
 Accordingly, Jitendra Panwar was arrested on 27.12.2024. He is in custody
 ever since. Ritesh Sharma was apprehended on 31.12.2024. His mobile
 phone was seized. Ritesh Sharma informed that Umesh Pandya, Incharge of
 Nandi Hall, Ashish Sharma operator of Bhasma-Aarti, Karan Singh Panwar,
 Guard Supervisor, Pankaj Sharma and Vijendra, journalist and Deepak Mittal
 former member of the Samiti are his associates. He facilitates Darshan to the
 pilgrims and visitors on recommendation of these persons on payment of
 money. The whatsapp chat messages and online payment messages were
 extracted and retrieved from mobile phones of the accused. On completion Signature Not Verified Signed by: BHUNESHWAR DATT Signing time: 24-03-2025 10:24:28 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:7583

 3 MCRC-1016-2025
 of investigation final report was submitted pending the investigation against
 other absconding accused. Learned Counsel for the applicant, in addition to the grounds
 mentioned in the application, submits that the applicant is falsely implicated
 in the matter merely on the basis of information given by co-accused in
 police custody and recovery of certain whatsapp chat messages and online
 money transactions. None of the visitors or pilgrims had made any complaint
 against the applicant that he has received money to facilitate priority Darshan
 at the temple. No offence, as alleged, is committed by the applicant. No
 criminal antecedent is reported against him. He had never been involved in
 any criminal activity. The trial would take time to conclude. Therefore, the
 applicant may be extended the benefit of bail. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent/State opposes the bail
 application on the ground of gravity of alleged offence. Learned counsel
 submits that the mobile data recovered from mobile phone of applicant
 shows transaction of money. Therefore, applicant may not be extended
 benefit of bail. However, after going through the case diary, he fairly states
 that no criminal antecedent is reported against the applicant. Heard the arguments, perused the grounds for grant of bail stated in
 the application and the case diary. Allegedly, the applicant, while working as Security Guard, facilitated

 priority Darshan to the visitors and pilgrims at Mahakal Temple on payment
 of convenience fees which was not accounted to the Mahakaleshwar Mandir Signature Not Verified Signed by: BHUNESHWAR DATT Signing time: 24-03-2025 10:24:28 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:7583

 4 MCRC-1016-2025
 Samiti. He is implicated on the basis of statement of co-accused in police
 custody and certain mobile chats and online transactions. The veracity of the
 prosecution will be determined after evidence in trial. Further custodial
 interrogation of the applicant is not needed in the matter. Considering the
 number of witnesses and the online transaction evidence, the trial would take
 substantiate time to conclude. As informed, the applicant is aged around 36
 years. He is working as Security Guard of private company at the Mahakal
 Temple. The applicant is sole bread earner of the family and has
 responsibility of the family. Considering these aspects, there appears to be
 no possibility of fleeing from justice. In absence of criminal
 antecedents, considering the socio-economic status of the applicant, there
 appears to be no likelihood of tampering with evidence or influencing the
 witnesses by the applicant or repeating the offence. The trial would take time
 to conclude. There appears to be no compelling reason to continue
 incarceration of the applicant. However, the observations, herein-above, are
 recorded for present application only. Considering the rival contentions and overall circumstances of the
 case, in the light of aforesaid facts, but without commenting on the merits,
 this Court is inclined to release the applicant on bail. Thus, present
 application is allowed. Accordingly, it is directed that applicant -Jitendra shall be released on
 bail in connection with the crime as stated in para-1 of this order, upon
 furnishing personal bond and surety bond of amount, as may be considered Signature Not Verified Signed by: BHUNESHWAR DATT Signing time: 24-03-2025 10:24:28 NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:7583

 5 MCRC-1016-2025
 appropriate by the Trial Court for compliance with conditions, as may be
 imposed by such Court under Section 437(3) of Cr.P.C. 1973/ Section 480(3) of BNSS, 2023, to secure presence of the applicant for the trial. This order shall be effective till the end of trial. However, in case of
 breach of any of the preconditions of bail, the Trial Court may consider, on
 merit, cancellation of bail without any impediment of this order. The concerned Court shall get the conditions reproduced on the
 personal bond by the accused and on surety bond by the surety concerned. If
 any of them is unable to write, the scribe shall certify that he had explained
 the conditions to the concerned accused or the surety. C.C. as per rules. (SANJEEV S KALGAONKAR)
 JUDGE
 BDJ Signature Not Verified Signed by: BHUNESHWAR DATT Signing time: 24-03-2025 10:24:28