This petition is filed under Section 438 of Cr.P.C., praying

to enlarge the petitioner on bail in the event of his arrest in

respect of Crime No.544/2021 registered by Central CEN Crime

Police Station, Bengaluru City, for the offences punishable under Sections 66C and 66D of the Information Technology Act, 2008

and Sections 419 and 420 of IPC. 2. Heard the learned counsel appearing for the

petitioner and the learned High Court Government Pleader

appearing for the respondent/ State. 3. This is the case of the complainant that he has

received the Whats'app message from one Jerry and she has

stated to follow her instructions. Hence, he filled the required

information and his account was generated in the website. The

User ID and password were given and he opened an account in

Binance. Then he deposited money to do trading, he transferred

an amount of Rs.50 Lakhs on 17.09.2021, then Nexcoin account 3 was opened again he transferred Rs.7,00,000 INR to different

account holders. Similarly he paid amount to different account

holders in Binance through Paytm and Google pay on various

dates. Through his Binance account the said USD have been

transferred to Nexcoin account which is maintained in Binance.

He acted as per the instructions. Later he came to know that

they have blocked his Nexcoin account, when he try to enter into

his account to see whether he can able to login, thereafter he

realized that there is something fishy and they were playing

fraud on him. Apart from him his group members have also

faced the same problem. When he came to know that he was

cheated from them, he lodged a complaint and the matter is

under investigation. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner

would submit that he is an innocent and he is also one of the

victim of this transaction and a notice was given under Section

41A of Cr.P.C., dated 03.03.2022 and he is unable to comply

with the notice. The learned counsel also would submit that this

petitioner is an innocent person and not indulged in any such 4 acts of fraud or cheating and this petitioner is ready to co-

operate with the Investigating Officer. Hence, he may be

enlarged on bail. 5. Per contra, learned High Court Government Pleader

appearing for the State would submit that an amount of

Rs.17,81,000/- is transferred to the account of this petitioner

and not only the complainant was cheated and his colleagues

were also cheated and it is a chain in cheating the public and the

matter requires to be probed. In order to recover the amount

and also effectively probed the matter, the presence of this

petitioner is required. 6. Having heard the respective counsel and on perusal

of the material available on record, the specific allegations are

made that the amount has been transferred in favour of this

petitioner to the tune of Rs.17,81,000/- and also the allegation

of cheating the general public by opening an account by sending

message in whats'app, persuaded and instructed to visit website

called Nexcoin and now, the same is not in force. Having taken

note of the specific allegations and the amount has been 5 transferred in favour of petitioner's account to the tune of

Rs.17,81,000/- and the serious allegations are made, it is not a

fit case to exercise the discretion under Section 438 of Cr.P.C.,

to enlarge the petitioner on bail. 7. In view of the discussions made above, I pass the

following: