This Criminal Original Petition has been filed seeking to

 quash the proceedings in C.C.No.4670 of 2006, pending on the file of

 the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore. 2.The case of the prosecution is that Alwarpet Benefit Fund

 Limited, which was a Company engaged in the business of receiving

 fixed deposits, failed to repay the deposits even after maturity. An FIR

 was registered based on the complaint given by one of the depositor. In the course of investigation, it was found that 46,000 depositors were

 defrauded to the tune of Rs.118 crores. The investigation was

 completed, and a Final Report was filed against 14 accused persons and

 the petitioner is ranked as A-4. Even though, the Final Report was

 taken cognizance in the year 2006, the principal accused persons viz; A-1 to A-3 have absconded and are said to be living in a foreign country

 and are yet to be brought back to India, and therefore there is

 absolutely no progress in the case for the last 13 years. http://www.judis.nic.in 2/32 3 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 3.The petitioner who has been arrayed as A-4, was working

 as a Director of the Company during the period from 27.02.1997 to

 04.07.1999. 4.Mr.V.P.Raman, learned Senior Counsel appearing on

 behalf of the petitioner submitted that the petitioner is a Chartered

 Accountant by profession, and he was made as an accused in this case

 only on the ground that he was one of the Directors in the Company. The learned Senior Counsel submitted that no overt act, has been

 attributed against the petitioner and the respondent Police have added

 the petitioner as an accused by merely applying the principle of

 vicarious liability. The learned Senior Counsel further submitted that

 the concept of vicarious liability will not apply for IPC offences. The

 learned Senior Counsel concluded his arguments by submitting that the

 main accused persons have escaped from the clutches of law, and the

 petitioner who was a Non-Executive Director and a Chartered

 Accountant by profession, has been going through the ordeal of facing

 criminal proceedings without there being any material available against

 him and the criminal proceeding is an abuse of process of Court, insofar

 as the petitioner is concerned. http://www.judis.nic.in 3/32 4 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 5.The respondent Police have filed a counter affidavit in

 this case. The relevant portions of the counter affidavit is extracted

 hereunder: The Retd.Justice Tr.Taman was appointed as
 Administrator in this Company for recovery of dues to
 the company and for settlements to the depositors. 5.It is submitted that the averments made in
 Para 3 & 4 are dennied that A4 Magesh was appointed
 as one of the Director in Alwarpet Benefit Fund Ltd., on

http://www.judis.nic.in 4/32 5 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 27.02.1997. During the period A-4 acted as a director
 and attended the Board of Directors meeting and signed
 in the Minutes and continued as a director till
 04.07.1999. As per the Article Association of the
 company the management shall vested with the Board
 of Directors. The Board of Directors shall have been
 sole discretion regarding utilization of the companies
 fund. The Board of Directors shall empowered to frame
 rules with the respect various scheme of loans and
 advances of the company such as those relating to
 mode of application, the rate of interest or loans,
 Principle or interest, nature of repayment etc. The
 Board of Directors shall have powers to frame rules
 governing the schemes of various deposit accounts such
 as rate of interest, minimum balance etc. 6.It is submitted that the averments made in
 Para 5 concerned that, since the investigation revealed
 that the petitioner was during that period 1997 to 1999,
 deposits are collected in the name of the company were
 to the tune of rs.23 Crores and defaulted in returning
 the same to depositors. There is a prima facie case
 against the petitioner/accused and therefore he was
 included as A4 in the Final Report which was taken on
 file by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore and
 C.C.No.4670/2006 was assigned. 11.It is submitted that the averments made in
 Para.10,11,12 & 13 are totally false. There is a
 sufficient direct and oral as well as documentary
 evidence to substantiate the offences against
 petitioner/accused. The petitioner/accused name was
http://www.judis.nic.in 5/32 6 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 mentioned in the pamphlet issued by the Alwarpet
 Benefit Fund Ltd., with regard to deposit scheme. The
 petitioner/accused has also to attended the Board of
 Directors meeting and signed in the minutes of the
 meeting. Further the petitioner/accused had signed in
 the Balance Sheet for the period 1996-97, 1997-98.
 The above facts disclosed the petitioner was involved in
 the management of the affairs of the company. The
 petitioner/accused along with the other accused issued
 pamphlet with the promise to pay 20% interest per
 annum for the deposit and there by induced depositors
 to invest their money with the company. The
 petitioner/accused along with the other accused entered
 into the conspiracy and deceived the depositors to the
 tune of Rs.118 Crores to 46,000 depositors. The
 statements and documentary evidence categorical
 revealed all the ingredients of sections
 406 , 409 , 420 , 506(ii) r/w 34 IPC . Therefore a Final
 Report is liable to be quashed in this ground. 16.It is submitted that the averments made in
 Para 21,22,23 & 24 are denied. The petitioner/accused
 had attended the Board of Directors meeting during the
 period from 1996-97, 1997-98 and also signed in the
 minutes. The petitioner/accused had also signed in the
 Balance Sheet for the above said periods. Since, there
 is a prima facie case against the petitioner/accused,
 based on the statements and documents the Hon'ble
 CMM Court has taken cognizance of the offences
 U/s.120(B), r/w 420, r/w 34 and 409, r/w 34, 109 IPC .
 Therefore there is a no question of non application of
http://www.judis.nic.in 6/32 7 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 mind in taking the cognizance of the case. 6.Mr.C.Ragavan, learned Government Advocate appearing

 on behalf of the respondent Police, apart from reiterating the facts

 stated in the counter affidavit, also submitted that the petitioner had

 attended the meeting of the Board of Directors and also signed in the

 Balance Sheets during the period 1997-1999, and therefore the

 petitioner was involved in the management of the affairs of the

 Company. The learned counsel further submitted that the petitioner by

 not interfering with the illegal acts committed by A-1 to A-3, had

 committed breach of his obligation and thereby abetted the crime

 committed by A-1 to A-3. 7.The learned counsel further submitted that there are

 prima facie materials available against the petitioner in order to frame

 charges, and therefore this Court should not interfere with the

 proceedings at this stage, more particularly due to the fact that it

 involves the interest of thousands of depositors, who were defrauded

 by the Company. http://www.judis.nic.in 7/32 8 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 8.This Court has carefully considered the submissions made

 on either side and the materials available on record. 9.This case became a very huge scam in the year 1999,

 wherein thousands of depositors lost their hard earned money, which

 they had deposited in fixed deposits at Alwarpet Benefit Fund. The

 counter affidavit filed by the respondent Police shows that 46,000

 depositors were defrauded to the tune of Rs.118 crores. In this case,

 an administrator was appointed by this Court, and as a result of the

 same, several properties belonging to the Company was brought for

 sale and several depositors were settled. Unfortunately, in this case the

 prime accused persons [A-1 to A-3] escaped from India and they were

 declared as proclaimed offenders. Till today, they have not been

 brought back to India. 10.At this juncture, it is necessary to find out if there are

 any materials available against the petitioner, who was functioning as a

 Director of the Company from 27.02.1997 to 04.07.1999. 11.A reading of the Final Report along with the statement

 of witnesses and other materials collected by the prosecution, shows
http://www.judis.nic.in 8/32 9 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 various overt acts against [A-1 to A-3] and certain other accused

 persons. Originally, the petitioner was ranked as A-5 and due to the

 death of A-4, during the course of investigation, the petitioner was

 made as A-4 in the case. The petitioner has not been roped in for any

 individual offences attributed against the other accused persons. The

 petitioner has been roped in only for the offence of criminal conspiracy

 under Section 120B of IPC and for the offence of abetment under Section 109 IPC. 12.The specific averment that was made against the

 petitioner in the Final Report is extracted hereunder: 13.In the counter affidavit, it has been stated that the

 petitioner had attended the meeting of the Board of Directors and had
http://www.judis.nic.in 9/32 10 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 also signed in the Balance Sheet of the Company for the period from

 1997 to 1999. Therefore, the prosecution has come to a conclusion

 that the petitioner is involved in the day-to-day affairs of the Company,

 and therefore he is also a link in the chain of conspiracy, along with the

 other accused persons. 14.It is important to note that the Final Report has been

 filed for IPC offences against the accused persons. The Penal Code

 does not contemplate any vicarious liability on a party, who is not

 charged directly for the commission of an offence. The concept of

 vicarious liability is created by legal fiction only where it is specifically

 provided under a statute. Useful reference can be made in this regard,

 to the Judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sunil Bharti Mittal

 .Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation reported in (2015) 1 MLJ (Crl)

 231 (SC). The relevant portions of the judgment is extracted

 hereunder: agent" principle. He submitted that it has never been a
 case where for the act of the company, an individual is
 made accused, unless there is a categorical provision in
 the statute making such a person vicariously liable or
 there is enough material to attribute the alleged acts of
 criminality to the said person. For his aforesaid
 submissions, he placed heavy reliance upon the decision
 of this Court in Iridium India Telecom Ltd. v. Motorola
 Inc [2]. He further submitted that merely on the basis of
 the appellant's status in the company, it could not be
 presumed that it is the appellant who became a party to
 the alleged conspiracy, as was held in Maharashtra
 State Electricity Distribution Co. Ltd. v. Datar Switchgear
 Ltd. [3] in the following manner: Mr. Salve also referred to the following observations in S.K. Alagh v. State of U.P. Air 2008 SC 1731 : (2008) 5
 SCC 662 : LNIND 2008 SC 368: (2008) 1 MLJ (Crl) 1360
 “12. The short question which arises for
 consideration is as to whether the complaint petition,
 even if given face value and taken to be correct in its
 entirety, disclosed an offence as against the appellant
 under Section 406 of the Penal Code. xx xx xx 19. As, admittedly, drafts were drawn in the name of
 the Company, even if the appellant was its Managing
 Director, he cannot be said to have committed an
 offence under Section 406 of the Penal Code. If and
 when a statute contemplates creation of such a legal
 fiction, it provides specifically therefor. In absence of
 any provision laid down under the statute, a Director of
 a Company or an employee cannot be held to be
 vicariously liable for any offence committed by the
 Company itself. (See Sabitha Ramamurthy v. R.B.S.
 Channabasavaradhya , (2006) 10 SCC 581." Reliance was also placed on the decision in the case of Aneeta Hada v. Godfather Travels & Tours (P) Ltd. AIR
 2012 SC 2795: (2012) 5 SCC 661: LNIND 2012 SC 260,
 with particular emphasis on the following passage: 32.The moot question is whether the
 aforesaid proposition, to proceed against the appellants
 is backed by law? In order to find the answer, let us
 scan through the case law that was cited during the
 arguments. 33. First case which needs to be
 discussed is Iridium India (supra). Before we discuss
 the facts of this case, it would be relevant to point out
 that the question as to whether a company could be
 prosecuted for an offence which requires mens rea had
 been earlier referred to in a Constitution Bench of five
 Judges in the case of Standard Chartered Bank v.
 Directorate of Enforcement [11]. The Constitution Bench
 had held that a company can be prosecuted and
 convicted for an offence which requires a minimum
 sentence of imprisonment. In para 8 of the judgment,
 the Constitution Bench clarified that the Bench is not
 expressing any opinion on the question whether a
 corporation could be attributed with requisite mens rea
 to prove the guilt. Para 8 reads as under: But as we are not concerned with this question in these
 proceedings, we do not express any opinion on that
 issue." 34.In Iridium India (supra), the aforesaid
 question fell directly for consideration, namely, whether
 a company could be prosecuted for an offence which
 requires mens rea and discussed this aspect at length,
 taking note of the law that prevails in America and
 England on this issue. For our benefit, we will reproduce
 paras 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 and 64 herein: 61. The principle has been reiterated by Lord
 Denning in Bolton (H.L.) (Engg.) Co. Ltd. v. T.J. Graham
 & Sons Ltd. in the following words: (AC p. 172): 62. The aforesaid principle has been firmly
 established in England since the decision of the House
 of Lords in Tesco Supermarkets Ltd. v. Nattrass. In
 stating the principle of corporate liability for criminal
 offences, Lord Reid made the following statement of
 law: (AC p. 170 E-G)
 "I must start by considering the nature of the
 personality which by a fiction the law attributes to a
 corporation. A living person has a mind which can have
 knowledge or intention or be negligent and he has
 hands to carry out his intentions. A corporation has
 none of these: it must act through living persons,
 though not always one or the same person. Then the
 person who acts is not speaking or acting for the
 company. He is acting as the company and his mind
 which directs his acts is the mind of the company.
 There is no question of the company being vicariously
 liable. He is not acting as a servant, representative,
 agent or delegate. He is an embodiment of the
 company or, one could say, he hears and speaks
http://www.judis.nic.in 17/32 18 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 through the persona of the company, within his
 appropriate sphere, and his mind is the mind of the
 company. If it is a guilty mind then that guilt is the guilt
 of the company. It must be a question of law whether,
 once the facts have been ascertained, a person in doing
 particular things is to be regarded as the company or
 merely as the company's servant or agent. In that case
 any liability of the company can only be a statutory or
 vicarious liability." 63.From the above it becomes evident that a
 corporation is virtually in the same position as any
 individual and may be convicted of common law as well
 as statutory offences including those requiring mens
 rea. The criminal liability of a corporation would arise
 when an offence is committed in relation to the
 business of the corporation by a person or body of
 persons in control of its affairs. In such circumstances,
 it would be necessary to ascertain that the degree and
 control of the person or body of persons is so intense
 that a corporation may be said to think and act through
 the person or the body of persons. The position of law
 on this issue in Canada is almost the same. Mens rea is
 attributed to corporations on the principle of "alter ego" 64. So far as India is concerned, the legal
 position has been clearly stated by the Constitution
 Bench judgment of this Court in Standard Chartered
 Bank v. Directorate of Enforcement (2005) 4 SCC 530 .
 On a detailed consideration of the entire body of case
 laws in this country as well as other jurisdictions, it has
http://www.judis.nic.in 18/32 19 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 been observed as follows: (SCC p. 541, para 6) "6.
 There is no dispute that a company is liable to be
 prosecuted and punished for criminal offences.
 Although there are earlier authorities to the effect that
 corporations cannot commit a crime, the generally
 accepted modern rule is that except for such crimes as
 a corporation is held incapable of committing by reason
 of the fact that they involve personal malicious intent, a
 corporation may be subject to indictment or other
 criminal process, although the criminal act is committed
 through its agents." 35.It is abundantly clear from the above that the
 principle which is laid down is to the effect that the
 criminal intent of the "alter ego" of the company, that is
 the personal group of persons that guide the business
 of the company, would be imputed to the
 company/corporation. The legal proposition that is laid
 down in the aforesaid judgment is that if the person or
 group of persons who control the affairs of the company
 commit an offence with a criminal intent, their
 criminality can be imputed to the company as well as
 they are "alter ego" of the company. 36.In the present case, however, this principle is
 applied in an exactly reverse scenario. Here, company is
 the accused person and the learned Special Magistrate
 has observed in the impugned order that since the
 appellants represent the directing mind and will of each
 company, their state of mind is the state of mind of the
 company and, therefore, on this premise, acts of the
http://www.judis.nic.in 19/32 20 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 company is attributed and imputed to the appellants. It
 is difficult to accept it as the correct principle of law. As
 demonstrated hereinafter, this proposition would run
 contrary to the principle of vicarious liability detailing
 the circumstances under which a direction of a company
 can be held liable. (iii) Circumstances when Director/Person in charge of
 the affairs of the company can also be prosecuted,
 when the company is an accused person: 37.No doubt, a corporate entity is an artificial
 person which acts through its officers, directors,
 managing director, chairman etc. If such a company
 commits an offence involving mens rea, it would
 normally be the intent and action of that individual who
 would act on behalf of the company. It would be more
 so, when the criminal act is that of conspiracy.
 However, at the same time, it is the cardinal principle of
 criminal jurisprudence that there is no vicarious liability
 unless the statute specifically provides so. 38.Thus, an individual who has perpetrated the
 commission of an offence on behalf of a company can
 be made accused, along with the company, if there is
 sufficient evidence of his active role coupled with
 criminal intent. Second situation in which he can be
 implicated is in those cases where the statutory regime
 itself attracts the doctrine of vicarious liability, by
 specifically incorporating such a provision. 39.When the company is the offendor, vicarious
 liability of the Directors cannot be imputed
 automatically, in the absence of any statutory provision
http://www.judis.nic.in 20/32 21 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 to this effect. One such example is Section 141 of the
 Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. In Aneeta Hada (supra), the Court noted that if a group of persons that
 guide the business of the company have the criminal
 intent, that would be imputed to the body corporate and
 it is in this backdrop, Section 141 of the Negotiable
 Instruments Act has to be understood. Such a position
 is, therefore, because of statutory intendment making it
 a deeming fiction. Here also, the principle of "alter ego",
 was applied only in one direction namely where a group
 of persons that guide the business had criminal intent,
 that is to be imputed to the body corporate and not the
 vice versa. Otherwise, there has to be a specific act
 attributed to the Director or any other person allegedly
 in control and management of the company, to the
 effect that such a person was responsible for the acts
 committed by or on behalf of the company. This very
 principle is elaborated in various other judgments. We
 have already taken note of Maharashtra State Electricity
 Distribution Co. Ltd. (supra) and S.K. Alagh (supra).
 Few other judgments reiterating this principle are the
 following: Executive Director of the Company. At this juncture, it will be useful to

 take note of the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
http://www.judis.nic.in 21/32 22 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 Chintalapati Srinivasa Raju and Others .Vs. Securities and Exchange

 Board of India, reported in (2018 5 MLJ 857). The relevant portions

 of the judgment is extracted hereunder: 16.From the above judgments, it is clear that even though

 the corporate entity is an artificial person which acts through its

 Officers, Directors, Chairman etc., if such a Company commits an

 offence involving mens rea, it would normally be the intent and action

 of that individual, who acted on behalf of the Company. A person, who

 has perpetrated the commission of an offence on behalf of a Company

 can be made as an accused, along with the Company, if there is

 sufficient evidence of his active role coupled with criminal intent

 [emphasis supplied]. This is the cardinal principle of criminal

 jurisprudence, unless the statute specifically provides for the
http://www.judis.nic.in 27/32 28 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 applicability of the doctrine of vicarious liability like in the case of Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 , Employees Provident Fund Act,

 1952 , Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 , etc. 17.In case of a Non-Executive Director, they cannot be

 presumed to be involved in the day-to-day affairs of the running of the

 Company and they cannot be made liable just because they have

 attended Board Meetings or signed Balance Sheets. 18.In the instant case, the only allegation that is found

 against the petitioner in the Final Report and in the materials collected

 by the prosecution during the course of investigation, is that the

 petitioner did not interfere with the illegal act committed by A-1 to A-3,

 and thereby he has abetted the commission of crime under Section 109 of IPC. Therefore, the prosecution has proceeded against the petitioner

 more on an assumption and by applying the principle of vicarious

 liability, without there being any material to show that the petitioner

 had perpetrated the commission of the offence, by playing an active

 role coupled with criminal intent. Unless, this minimum requirement is

 satisfied, the petitioner cannot be made as an accused in this case. http://www.judis.nic.in 28/32 29 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 19.Even to rope in the petitioner under Section 109 of IPC,

 the prosecution must establish the element of mens rea and a positive

 act on the part of the petitioner. Negligence or carelessness or even

 facilitation cannot be termed to be abetment and abetment is not a

 matter of mere suspicion or surmises. Therefore, even if the entire

 materials are taken as it is, along with the allegations made in the Final

 Report, this Court does not find even an iota of evidence against the

 petitioner to rope him for the offence of abetment. 20.In the considered view of this Court, there are no

 materials available against the petitioner to proceed further against him

 before the Court below. It is true that even a strong suspicion is

 enough to frame charges against an accused person. If material is

 available, this Court cannot go into it and analyse such materials at this

 stage. However, such a suspicion must be based on some material and

 not on mere assumptions or surmises. In this case, no material is

 available against the petitioner. 21.In view of the above, the continuation of the
http://www.judis.nic.in 29/32 30 Crl.O.P.No.7580 of 2019 proceedings against the petitioner is an abuse of process of Court and

 in the considered view of this Court, the petitioner should not be made

 to face the ordeal of trial before the Court below. This Court has no

 hesitation to quash the proceedings insofar as the petitioner is

 concerned. 22.In the result, the proceedings in C.C.No.4670 of 2006,

 on the file of the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore,

 Chennai, is hereby quashed insofar as the petitioner is concerned. Accordingly, this Criminal Original Petition is allowed. Consequently,

 connected miscellaneous petitions are closed.