Heard on this repeat second application for bail under section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure filed on behalf
of applicant Gajendra Singh in Crime No.129/2019 registered
by Cyber Zone, District Jabalpur under Sections 419 , 420 , 468 of IPC and 66- D of the Information Technology Act . The case of the prosecution in short is that applicant
with the connivance of another co-accused Brijmohan
fraudulently floated an advertisement of selling a car on OLX
and fraudulently received the amount from other person.
Akshay Kumar Jain also deposited the amount in the Paytm
account of the applicant and had a chat on mobile
nos.7231868461, 7689079867 and 7891294068. The applicant
with the connivance with co-accused person Brijmohan
fraudulently received the amount from Akshay Jain. Akshay
Jain made a complaint to that effect in the State Cyber police.
Cyber police during investigation found that above mentioned
mobile numbers belonged to Gajendra Singh and he is the
user of those mobile numbers. Perused the memorandum of applicant recorded under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. No doubt that there is a prima
facie case appeared against the applicant. The applicant
belonged to District Jaipur (Rajasthan). After perusal of the
documents, it is reflected that the applicant committed a fraud (2) HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH:JABALPUR M.Cr.C No.40216/2019 Gajendra Singh vs. State of Madhya Pradesh

 and received the amounts from different different consumers.
 Another case is registered against the applicant for the same
 nature of offence. During investigation, it has also been found
 that the amount deposited by the complainant are credited in
 the Paytm account linked with phone numbers which were
 used by the applicant. On the basis of above discussion, this Court is not
 inclined to allow this second bail application only on the
 ground that after investigation, charge has been filed. There is
 no need of applicant in any type of investigation. Consequently, this second application for bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure filed on behalf
 of petitioner Gajendra Singh, is dismissed.