Heard Sri Gaurav Kumar Singh, learned counsel for the applicant and Dr. S.B. Maurya, learned AGA-I for the State. The instant bail application has been filed seeking release of the applicant on bail in Case Crime No. 13 of 2022, under Sections 420 , 120B , 34 IPC and 66-D IT Act, Police Station Cyber Crime, District Agra during pendency of the trial. FIR of the present case was lodged on 25.04.2022 under Section 420 IPC against unknown persons and as per allegation by playing fraud three unknown boys changed the ATM card of the informant and anyhow procured her password and thereafter from 12.02.2022 to 17.02.2022 i.e. within a week Rs. 4,45,000/- were withdrawn from her account. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that applicant was not named in the FIR and during investigation Investigating Officer came to know that applicant has been detained with regard to some other offence of similar nature and thereafter he came to conclusion that applicant is the person, who committed the present offence and thereafter it is alleged that he recorded the confessional statement of the applicant and on the basis of confessional statement of the applicant, he has been made accused in the present matter. He further submits that except the confessional statement of the applicant there is no other evidence on record against him. He further submits that applicant has been implicated in two other cases of similar nature but in both the cases he has been made accused on the basis of confessional statement and in the present matter he is in jail since 08.12.2022. Per contra, learned AGA opposed the prayer for bail and submitted that applicant is employee of Paytm Company and it was his job to complete KYC of the customers of the company and under the pretext to complete KYC he used to play fraud with the customers and he misused his position and fraudulently managed to get password of the customers and thereafter by Swapping the ATM of the informant withdrew total Rs. 4,45,000/- but learned AGA could not dispute the fact that except the confessional statement of applicant there is no other admissible evidence on record against the applicant and no recovery was made from the possession of applicant and entire story with regard to swapping has been narrated by the Investigating Officer in the case diary on the basis of confessional statement and there is no separate evidence in this regard on record. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record of the case. Although, as per allegation within two weeks Rs. 4,45,000/- has been withdrawn from the account of the informant and during investigation applicant was made accused but it appears that only evidence against the applicant is his confessional statement and there is no evidence on record that applicant was the person who swiped the card of the informant and withdrew the amount of the informant and no recovery was made from the possession of applicant and in the present matter he is in jail since 08.12.2022. Therefore, from the discussion made above, in view of this Court, it is a fit case to release the applicant on bail. In the light of discussions made above, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the instant bail application is allowed. Let the applicant - Satish Kumar be released on bail in the aforesaid case on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions:- In case of breach of any of the above condition, the prosecution will be at liberty to move an application before this Court for cancellation of the bail of the applicant. Order Date :- 22.2.2023
 
AK Pandey