1. Heard Sri Rishabh Agarwal, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Rahul Sahai, learned counsel for the respondent. 2. Present petition has been filed for setting aside the order dated 1.3.2025 passed by the ADJ, Court No.26, Agra in SCCR No.47 of 2024. 3. Brief facts of the case are that earlier SCC Suit No. 61 of 2021 was instituted by the respondent/plaintiff seeking decree of eviction and recovery of arrears of rent. Thereafter, written Statement has also been filed by the petitioner-defendant with the specific plea about the execution of lease deed dated 23.2.2011 in favour of Shri S.K. Agarwal and two others. Petitioner-defendant has filed application under Order 1 Rule 10 of CPC on 14.12.2021 to implead the lessee of the respondent-plaintiff, which was allowed vide order dated 6.4.2024. Against that, plaintiff-respondent has preferred SCC Revision No. 47 of 2024, which was allowed vide order dated 1.3.2025 and matter was remanded back to decide the matter afresh. Hence the present petition. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that between the petitioner-defendant and respondent-plaintiff, SCC Suit No. 61 of 2021 is pending. Petitioner-defendant is tenant and prior to institution of suit, lease deed dated 23.2.2011 was executed by the plaintiff-respondent in favour of the certain persons, having no right for cancellation of lease and further all powers are given to lessee, transferees with regard to construction, repairing etc. In paragraph 3 of the lease deed dated 23.2.2011, it is stated that the property in question is very old and dilapidated condition, therefore, repairing/reconstruction is necessary. Lessee-second party has right to reconstruct all the buildings on his own expenses and also obtain all necessary permission for sanction of map from concerned Departments. They have also given right to deposit and receive any amount on behalf of lessor-first party. In paragraph 4 of the lease deed, it is further stated that after reconstruction, rent will be payable at the rate of Rs.3 per square foot per month and further the first party will execute another long term lease (more than 90 years) in favour of second party or any other persons nominated by him. Right to take possession from all tenant have also given to lessee-second party. Lessee-second party will be liable to pay all Government, Semi Government taxes, Future Taxes and may also obtain electricity connection in their name. In fact, this lease deed is only for the sake of name, otherwise it is transfer of property by misusing the process of law and this lease deed may be termed as sale deed. Therefore, lessees are necessary party and must have been impleaded in original suit as defendant. 5. He next submitted that to implead them, petitioner defendant has moved an application under 1 Rule 10 of CPC dated 14.12.2021, which was allowed vide order dated 6.4.2024. Against that plaintiff-defendant respondent no.1 preferred SCC Revision No. 47 of 2024, which was allowed vide order dated 1.3.2025 and further matter was remanded back to Original Court to decide the matter afresh in light of observation made by the Revisional Court. 6. He further submitted that without appreciating the facts of the case, remand order has been passed, which is absolutely bad in law. In fact once the right has been transferred to lesse-second party, they became necessary party. In support of his contention, he has placed reliance upon the judgment of this Court as well as Apex Court in the cases State of U.P. vs. 14th Addl. District Judge, Agra and others reported in 2001 AIHC 3396 and Ambica Prasad vs. Mohd Alam and another reported in (2015) 13 SCC 13. 7. He next submitted that once the lessee became the actual title holder, they are necessary party to be heard while deciding the SCC Suit. In support of his contention, he has placed reliance upon judgment of this Court in the matter of of Prakash Chand vs. Arjun Das and another reported in 2011 AIR CC 561. 8. He further argued that law is settled that once the interest of a party is in question, he must have been made party and heard prior to passing of order. In support of his contention, he has placed reliance upon the judgment of this Court in the case of Bhim Sen Wadhwa vs. Om Prakash Barra and others reported in 2010 SCC Online AII 980 and Dr. Shyam Chandra Srivastava vs. Estate of Padmasri Smt. Savitri Sahni reported in 2010 SCC Online AII 855. 9. Sri Rahul Sahai, learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the crux of the argument of learned counsel for the petitioner is totally based upon the judgment of State of U.P. vs. 14th Addl. District Judge, Agra and others (Supra) and in that case , lease was perpetual lease with transferees along with each and every right where in the present case lease deed is conditional. He further pointed that paragraph 1 of the lease deed clearly says that it is for 29 years & 11 months meaning thereby that it is time bound lease. In case, same is not extended, first party shall regain all the rights. Further, paragraph 7 of the lease deed says that for any legal action, responsibility lies upon the first party trust and only expenses is entrusted upon the second party. It clarifies that to sue right rest with the first party that confirms that ownership has not been transferred. Apart that in paragraph 8 of the lease deed, there is instruction for second party not to sell the property till the reconstruction and vice versa also. Here again absolute restriction has been imposed upon the second party. He firmly submitted that lease deed in question in the State of U.P., (Supra) is entirely different from present lease, therefore, it cannot said to be sale deed in light of so many conditions imposed therein and would only be a lease deed. Therefore, this judgment would not come in the rescue of the petitioner. 10. He next submitted that Court may not proceed to test the title of the parties in a dispute between the landlord and tenant in SCC Suit. In support of his contention, he has placed reliance upon the judgment of this Court in the case of Shobhit Nigam Vs. Smt. Batulan reported in 2017 (1) AWC 1082. 11. He further submitted that in his written statement, petitioner-defendant has accepted that he is tenant, therefore, SCC Court may confine to tenancy dispute and petitioner is having no right to raise any title dispute and issue of impleadment of any person coupled with this fact that alleged aggrieved person have never came up before the Court for filing impleadment application under Order 1 Rule 10 of CPC . He reiterated that in case any right of lessees is affected, they are at liberty to approach the Court at any time for that neither applicant is having right nor authorized to file the impleadment application. In support of this contention, he has placed reliance upon the judgment of this Court in the case of Jeet Kaur and others vs. Balalji Builders and others reported in 2001(2) ARC 98 and followed in Kanak Lata Das and others vs. Naba Kumar Das and others reported in AIR 2018 SC 682. 12. He further submitted that judgment of this Court in the matter of Prakash Chandra (Supra) relied by the petitioner is based upon the peculiar facts and further Court has observed that tenant had colluded with the third party and not laid down any law, therefore, it is not applicable in the present case. 13. Further, he distinguished the judgment of Bhimsen Wadhwa (supra) and submitted that there in lease deed, right to prosecute the suit and right to recover the arrears of rent etc has been transferred and interest of second party was involved, which is missing in the present case as the first party is having full right for prosecution. Therefore, this judgment would also not come into the rescue of learned counsel for the petitioner. 14. He submitted that petitioner has relied the upon judgment of Apex Court in the case Dr. Shyam Chandra Srivastava (Supra), which is arisen out of a re gular suit with regard to dispute pertaining to will deed, therefore, this judgment is not applicable in the present case. 15. In the judgment of Ambica Prasad (Supra), he submitted that Section 109 of T.P. Act itself clear that this would be applicable in the absence of a contract to the contrary, shall possess all the rights, but so far as present lease is concerned, there is specific contract that all rights of prosecution lies with first party, therefore, this judgment would not be applicable in the present case. 16. In the rejoinder argument, learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that in paragraph 3 & 6 of the lease, it is apparently clear that sale deed is in the shape of lease deed for the reason that all construction right has been given to the second party. Except the part of office, possession is with the old tenants for which second party is given right to obtain physical possession from the legal heirs and tenants. 17. He also pointed out that judgment of Kanak Lata Das and Jeet Kaur (Supra) relied by learned counsel for the respondent is about the title dispute, therefore, this would not be applicable in the present matter. 18. I have considered the rival submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the parties and perused the record as well as judgments relied upon. 19. The main crux of the argument of learned counsel for the petitioner is based upon the judgment of Apex Court in the case of State of U.P. vs. 14th Additional District Judge (Supra), therefore, relevant paragraph of the said judgment are quoted hereinbelow:- 20. I have perused the lease deed as well as judgement relied hereinabove. The contents of the lease deed is not supporting the case of petitioner in light of judgment. In fact, in that case, lease deed is perpetual lease deed having no right of repatriation whereas in the present case, there is no such unfettered right of transfer in the lease deed dated 23.2.2011 and only limited rights are contained in Clause 9 of lease deed with prior consent of landlord. Secondly, lease deed dated 23.2.2011 was time bound of 29 years & 11 months subject to further renewal and right to file/pursue suits for ejectment was also rest with the first party and no right of transfer was given to lessee-second party, therefore, contention so raised here cannot be accepted and judgment of State of U.P (Supra) will not come into the rescue of petitioner. 21. I have also perused the judgment relied by the learned counsel for the petitioner in the matter of Ambica Prasad (Supra). Relevant paragraph of the said judgment are quoted hereinbelow:- 22. From perusal of the aforesaid judgment, it is clear that after the transfer of lessor's right in favour of the transferee, the latter gets all rights and liabilities of the lessor in respect of subsisting tenancy. Section 109 of T.P. Act itself clear that this would be applicable in the absence of a contract to the contrary, shall possess all the rights, but so far as present lease is concerned, there is specific contract that all rights of prosecution lies with first party and limited rights have been given to the second party, therefore, this judgment would not be applicable in the present case. 23. Learned counsel for the applicant placed reliance upon judgment of this Court in the case of Prakash Chand (Supra) and submitted that lessee i.e. owner is the necessary party, therefore, relevant paragraph of the said judgment are quoted hereinbelow:- 24. From perusal of the aforesaid judgment, it is apparently clear that tenant and landlord are colluded, therefore, to save the right of actual owner, direction was issued to implead the third party. In fact, Court itself has held that in SCC Suit, rights to implead the third party is not required to be adjudicated, but only considering the element of fraud and collusion, order was passed. In the present case, tenancy is admitted by the petitioner/defendant in written submission and there is no allegation upon the contesting parties. Therefore, this judgment would also not applicable in the present case. 25. Learned counsel for the applicant has also placed reliance upon the judgment of this Court in the matter of Bhim Sen Wadhwa (Supra). Relevant paragraph of the said judgment is quoted hereinbelow:- ?4. During its pendency, the respondent sold the disputed shop to Ankur Bharadwaj through registered sale deed dated 21.4.2008 together with the right to prosecute the suit and right to recover the arrears of rent etc. whereupon, Ankur Bhardwaj moved an application no. 42Ga for impleadment as plaintiff while the respondent moved application no. 45Ga for amending the array of parties on identical grounds. Both the applications have been allowed by the courts below giving an opportunity to the petitioner to file any additional written statement. 7 There is another aspect of the matter. Though both the impugned orders have been passed in favour of Ankur Bhardwaj, the subsequent purchaser, but curiously he has not been impleaded as a party. It is settled principle of law and requirement of fair play that where the interest of a party is in question, he has to be impleaded and heard and no orders against his interest can be passed without hearing him. Therefore, on this ground alone the writ petition is liable to be dismissed. The respondents have unnecessarily been dragged to this court even though the petitioner has no stateable right, therefore he is liable to pay cost.? 26. From perusal of the same, it is apparently clear that through registered sale deed dated 21.4.2008 together with the right to prosecute the suit and right to recover the arrears of rent etc has been transferred and interest of second party was involved, but in the present case, all elements are missing neither it is sale deed nor right to prosecution was transferred through lease deed. Therefore, this judgment is also of no use in present controversy. 27. He also placed reliance upon the judgment of this Court in the case of Dr. Shyam Chandra Srivastava (Supra) with the argument that transferees is necessary party. Relevant paragraph of the said judgment are quoted hereinbelow:- 22 In the case reported Committee of Management, Ratan Muni Jain Inter College and another. Vs. III Additional Civil Judge, Agra and others) as well as in AIR 1995 298 (Hridaya NarainSingh. Vs. Lal and another), this Court while interpreting the Order I Rule 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure , held that it is the discretion of the court to add certain persons as party keeping in view the facts and circumstances of a particular case. For convenience, relevant portion of the Committee of Management, Ratan Muni Jain Inter College and another 's case is reproduced as under:- 28. From perusal of the aforesaid paragraphs, it is apparently clear that present dispute was arisen out of a regular suit with regard to a dispute of will deed and taking into account relevant provisions of the Succession Act , judgment has been given. So far as present SCC Suit is concerned, it is summary in nature and only pertaining to a tenancy dispute between the landlord and tenant, therefore, this judgment would also not be applicable in the present case. 29. I have also perused the judgment of this Court in the case of Shobhit Nigam (Supra) relied by the learned counsel for the opposite party. Relevant paragraph of the said judgment are quoted hereinbelow:- ?38. In view of the aforesaid discussion with efffect from 7th December 2015 the jurisdiction to try all suits between the lessor and lessee for rent & eviction under Section 15 of the Act as applicable to the State of U.P., upto the valuation of Rs. 1 Lakh irrespective of the date of their institution would lie before the Small Causes Court presided over by the Civil Judge (Senior Division) and the District Judge/Additional District Judge would not have jurisdiction to decide them except those having the valuation of over 1 lakh/" 30. From perusal of the same, it is apparently clear that filing of proceedings under the PSCC 1887 are contained under Section 15 of the PSCC Act read with the II Schedule and interpretation thereof would lead to a conclusion that it is primarily limited to disputes between lessor and lessee for rent and eviction beyound that nothing can be seen and same has also been concluded in paragraph 38 of the judgment, therefore, this Court is of the view that such impleadment application in light of facts hereinabove cannot be entertained in SCC Suit. 31. I have also perused the judgment of this Court in the case of Jeet Kaur and Ors. (Supra) relied by the learned counsel for the opposite party. Relevant paragraph of the said judgment are quoted hereinbelow:- 32. The same ratio of law was also followed by the Apex Court in the matter of Kanak Lata Das (Supra). Relevant paragraph of the said judgment are quoted hereinbelow:- 33. In the present case, written statement was filed by the petitioner-defendant in which tenancy is admitted without any dispute, therefore, in light of such facts as well as law laid down by the Court, there is no scope to entertain the impleadment application to implead the subsequent lessees/transferees with limited rights under the lease. Therefore, this judgment would also not applicable in the present case. 34. It is undisputed that SCC suit has been filed by the landlord against the tenant in which tenancy is admitted in written submission without any dispute. Further lease deed dated 23.2.2011 is executed, which is time bound lease subject to further renewal and only limited rights have been given to lessee, therefore, in title dispute lessee would not be necessary party. In SCC Suit rights of third party is affected in tenancy dispute. Further in case right of any third party is affected, they are having full right to file any application under Order I Rule 10 CPC for which there is no legal obligation upon the petitioner-defendant to file such application on their behalf. 35. In light of facts as well as judgment referred hereinabove, application filed under Order 1 Rule 10 cannot be entertained, therefore, I found no illegality or infirmity in the impugned order. 36. Accordingly, the petition is dismissed. No order as to costs. (Neeraj Tiwari,J.) 
 
October 15, 2025 
 
Junaid