% 20.01.2023 1. As per the previous order dated 29th November, 2022 of this Court, it
 was noted that the matter had been settled between the parties before the
 Delhi Mediation Centre, Karkardooma Courts and in terms of the settlement
 a sum of Rs.75,000/- had already been paid to respondent Nos.3 to 6 and the
 remaining amount of Rs.75,000/- had been handed over as well. However,
 since the Ld. Addl. Standing Counsel opposes the quashing of the petition,
 time was given to file a status report. 2. As per the status report which is being put forward by the Ld. ASC,
 the complaint arose on a scam which was being run to lure young persons
 seeking jobs in government agencies on basis of a payment and thereafter
 giving the ruse of a training, these moneys were received and fake
 employment certificates were issued. It has now transpired by further Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR Signing Date:21.01.2023 17:05:38 investigation that the main mastermind in this scam may be a person by the
 name of Azad Sharma whose address has been identified as House No.106,
 Khasra No.47/25, Gali No.3, Singhu Border Road, Krishna Nagar, Narela
 and notices have been served to him. However, it was discovered that he is
 already arrested by the Jharkhand Police in FIR No.118/2014 under Sections
 406 / 420 / 120 B IPC and is presently lodged in Godda Jail, Jharkhand. 3. The petitioners in this matter are young boys of about 25 years of age
 who, as per them, apparently unknowingly agreed to assist this Azad Sharma
 who came into touch with them through internet chat and agreed to assist
 him in order to invite people for seeking placements. As per the learned
 counsel for the petitioner and the petitioners themselves who are present in
 Court, the moneys that they had received from the so-called candidates was
 duly transferred to them to the said Azad Sharma. However, when they
 came to know that this is a fraudulent process pursuant to the complaint
 filed, they agreed to at least settle the amounts paid by the said respondents
 from their own money in order to exonerate themselves. 4. In view of these facts and circumstances and since it is an offence
 involving Section 420 IPC, it would be prudent if the FIR stands quashed
 qua these petitioners, however, the FIR shall be sustained as regards the
 other accused, if any, including Mr. Azad Sharma. 5. The Ld. ASC for the State states that investigation will be continued
 against Mr. Azad Sharma to find out the extent of the scam and as to how
 many innocent people have been either roped in as victims or as innocent
 agents of the scam. The petitioners have fairly stated in Court that they will
 assist the further investigation in whatever manner required by the State. 6. In view of the same, the FIR stands quashed qua the petitioners. 7. Status report may be e-filed by the State. 8. Order be uploaded on the website of this Court. ANISH DAYAL, J
 JANUARY 20, 2023/MK Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR Signing Date:21.01.2023 17:05:38