The brief factual background leading to initiation of

present regular second appeal by the unsuccessful plaintiffs Karan Singh

and Prem Singh both brothers is to the effect that they filed civil suit against

Smt Razia (now deceased) and another for possession by way of specific

performance of an oral agreement to sell dated 20.2.2001 in respect of share

of 9 marlas being 3/7 share in one kanal plot No.2305 for total sum of

Rs.22,000/- which amount was paid. It is alleged that defendants undertook

to get the sale deed registered in favour of plaintiffs by 3.4.2001 and the

possession of plot was handed over to the plaintiffs. It is alleged that as per

this agreement, the defendants refused to get executed the sale deed and,

hence, the suit in question. It is worthwhile to refer here that suit against

defendant No.1 Razia and defendant No.2 Bhim Singh stood dismissed on

15.9.2006 under the provisions of Order 9 Rule 2 CPC . Defendant No.3. 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 11-03-2018 04:48:54 ::: RSA No.5251 of 2012 -2- Dharampal, brother of defendant No.2 Bhim Singh appeared and filed

written statement denying each and every contentions of the plaintiffs

regarding agreement and undertaking for having transacted any money as

alleged. Claiming that plaintiffs have committed fraud and

misrepresentation and, therefore, no cause for specific performance of any

such agreement dated 20.3.2001 was made out. Replication was filed. On

17.7.2009 the trial Court framed the following issues:- Heard, learned counsel for the parties. Learned counsel for the appellant at the very onset

accepts the fact that orders dated 15.9.2006 under order IX Rule II CPC since then have attained finality as the plaintiffs have neither filed any fresh

suit or any application for restoration qua these defendants so Dharampal is

the lone contesting defendant. Since it is a suit which has been preferred by

the plaintiffs, the onus rests heavily upon plaintiffs to prove their case to the

hilt. More so, onus of principal issue No.1 was placed upon the plaintiffs.

The lone contention canvassed before this Court is regarding the finding on

issue No.1. The plaintiffs in their stand by way of pleadings have claimed

that agreement was written on 30.4.2001, however, in subsequent part of the

plaint it is pleaded that all the parties went to the office of Sub-Registrar and

also went to Deed Writer to get the sale deed written and which is

reproduced in the testimony of plaintiff by way of affidavit Ex.PW1/A,

when in the cross-examination of DW1 it has been specifically brought

about denying that any agreement was ever executed on 03.4.2001 as

claimed by the plaintiffs. The material contradiction has come about as to

when this agreement was got executed. As is there in the arguments put

forth by the counsel for the two sides, the cross-examination of PW2 Ram

Singh, Deed Writer is quite material, who has shrugged off his shoulder that

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 11-03-2018 04:48:55 ::: RSA No.5251 of 2012 -4- he never knew any of the parties, who all are illiterate and have thumb

marked, when on the other hand, plaintiff in his cross-examination accepts

that though others are illiterate but Bhim Singh was 4-5 class passed. The

stand of the defendants right at the inception of their case is that under the

garb of widow pension, plaintiff has procured thumb impression of Razia

and got thumb impression of his son as witness to it and subsequently had

tried to take undue advantage of the same. As is there in the arguments of

the two sides, learned counsel for the respondents has brought it out that

PW1 in his cross-examination had admitted that he procured the widow

pension of Razia, who is 80 years old rather are matters of serious concern

which corroborates and pushes forward the stand of the defence. On one

hand as is there in the submissions, the plaintiffs claim that they are in

possession of property in question but PW1 in his cross-examination

accepts that possession of the plot is with the defendants. Since a material

controversy over the very execution of agreement has come about but the

plaintiffs have failed to seek any relief about that very document which

certainly debars in terms of Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act. The Court

below has rightly held it so that on account of admission by the plaintiff that

the defendants were in possession the plaintiff must have sought relief for

declaration with possession and mere possession by way of specific

performance does not lies. The Court below has strongly observed that it is

the stand of the defendants that plaintiff was in habit of filing complaint

against poor harijans and has highlighted cross-examination of PW1

regarding suit filed against one Subhash in respect of plot, wherein,

compromise has taken place and he had received money from the poor

 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 11-03-2018 04:48:55 ::: RSA No.5251 of 2012 -5- person. The Court has examined threadbare the evidence of the plaintiffs

and has concluded that PW1 happens to be plaintiff and his evidence is not

of much relevance to forward the case rather name of other PW Ram Singh

was nowhere there in the pleadings regarding execution of the alleged

agreement and even one of the witness PW2 Ram Singh has shown

agreement to have been written on 03.4.2001 in sharp contradiction to the

stand of the plaintiffs. More so, most material lacuna in the case of the

plaintiffs comes about by the denial of the defendants as to their thumb

impressions but to the very query of the Court, learned counsel for the

appellants could not show by what means thumb impressions of the

defendants on the alleged document have been proved through an Expert or

otherwise in evidence. In the totality of fact the onus lay heavily upon

plaintiffs to prove principal issue No.1, who have miserably fail to prove the

same. Learned counsel for the two sides did not address any

other point before this Court. The Courts below have rightly and materially

appreciated the evidence and law and have come to a justifiable conclusion

and there is no perversity or illegality in the impugned findings. Thus, the

present appeal being hopelessly without any merits stands dismissed with

costs. (FATEH DEEP SINGH)
 JUDGE
February 02, 2018
aarti

 Whether speaking/reasoned : Yes/No
 Whether reportable : Yes/No

 5 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 11-03-2018 04:48:55 :::