Present: On the onset of monsoon in the month of June, when the water begins to drain into

river Pampa, a large number of fishes migrate upwards against the paddy fields and

wetlands which serve as a nursery and hatchery for the fish species. The EIA report

had not considered these aspects and the 1st respondent erred in granting the

impugned clearance when the very eco system of the area was incorrectly assessed

by the EIA report based on which the impugned EC was granted. The EIA did not

attempt to characterize the ecology of the area including wildlife inhabited in forest

land to locate the runway at the proposed project location. The EIA stated that very

limited field studies were made on the ecology of the area and the information

allegedly collected from the field studies referred to in the EIA report is lacking in all

requisite details. It is impossible to identify and understand the potential impact of the

proposed airport without knowing the identity of a single mammal or bird species

inhabiting that land for giving clearance to the proposed project. The EIA report relied

on by the 1st respondent/MoEF while granting the impugned EC did not even conform

to the MoEF's EIA Guidance Manual for Air Ports which states inter alia as follows

and none of the criteria was met by the EIA prepared in the instant case based on

which the 1st respondent granted the impugned EC. 9 13. In the light of the above judgment describing the importance of the public

hearing in the clearance process and the facts of the present case make it evident

that the entire process was farce and the 1st respondent has not considered any of

these facts while granting the impugned clearance. 14. According to EIA Notification, airports are Category-A projects and only

duly accredited EIA consultants can appear before the EAC or prepare the EIA

report. The present agency is found in Serial No. 47 of the QCI list (in Annexure-A-5)

and as per the accreditation, M/s. Enviro Care India Private Limited is authorized

only to carry out EIA preparation for Category B projects and the 1st respondent has

not considered even this aspect while granting the impugned clearance. The 4 th

respondent has submitted false information in the application in Form I submitted to

the 1st respondent for the purpose of obtaining clearance. The 4th respondent has

provided false data about the ecology in the area, the resources to be used for the

project and overall impact on the environment, including the location of protected

nearby area and the presence of wetlands or forests. The 4th respondent has

provided false data even about the basic information of the project in many of the

items in the application form and the 1 st respondent has not considered these

aspects while granting the impugned EC. Instead, additional "terms of reference" 15. In accordance with the draft policy of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, no

green field airport is permitted within the aerial distance of 150 km of an existing

airport without studying the impact of the new airport on the existing airport.

However, no such study has been conducted in the instant case. The proposed

airport is located between two international airports at Trivandrum and Cochin and

the distance between these two international airports and the proposed airport is less

than 150 km. The proposed airport is also located at a distance of 44 km from the

INS Garuda airfield. The communication from the Ministry of Defence dated

05.04.2010 clearly states that the ministry objected to the setting up of the proposed

airport as it would severely restrict the airspace available for military flying

operations. . The communication further states that the UAV operations would not

only hamper flight operations but also compromise safety. 16. The EAC has recommended the present project for clearance during the

115th meeting held during 16th and 17th August, 2012. It can be seen from the

minutes of the meeting that the EAC has discussed a total of 50 items on its agenda.

The EAC could not have discussed in detail the various aspects relating to the

project as observed in the matter of Utkarsh Mandal Vs. Union of India and others (W.P. (C).No. 9340 of 2009 by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in paragraph 45. The

bare perusal of the minutes of the EAC meeting would indicate that none of the

issues raised was considered by it. 17. The Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010 of the State of

Kerala clearly includes in rule 2 (g) "creeks" within the definition of wetlands. The 18 Kozhithodu which faces obliteration due to the proposed construction is a creek and

is protected under these rules. The classification of lands as 'industrial area' was

done without following the due process of law. There are no industries in the area

and the present classification has been made with the sole reason of facilitating the

4th respondent's project. The conditions contained in the impugned clearance have

no bearing on the factual matrix of the situation and show the non application of mind

on the part of the 1st respondent. The respondents have not seen that the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India has held in the matter of Karnataka Industrial Areas

Development Board Vs. Sri C. Kenchappa and others in Appeal (Civil) No. 7405 of

2000 dated 12.05.2006, wherein it was held that in future, before acquisition of lands

for development, the consequence and adverse impact of development on

environment must be properly comprehended and the lands be acquired for

development only if the project does not impair the ecology and environment. The

action of the respondents is in direct violation of the above orders. The 1st

respondent's clearance is contrary to the Precautionary Principle and Principles of

Sustainable Development vide also reaffirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of

India in Research Foundation for Science, Technology and Natural Resources Policy

Vs. Union of India (AIR 2007 SC (Supp) 852 prescribing the 'precautionary principle'

and ' sustainable development' in Vellore Citizens' Forum Vs. Union of India and Andhra Pradesh State Pollution Control Board Vs. Prof. M.V. Naidu reported in

(1999) 1SCR 235. 18. The 4th respondent has commenced the airport construction work even

prior to the EC being granted in violation of the EIA Notification, 2006 and the letter

dated 12.04.2010 of the 4th respondent stands as evidence for which the 4th

respondent is liable to be prosecuted. On 13.07.2013, more than 70 Members of the 19 Legislative Assembly of the State of Kerala submitted a representation to the Prime

Minister of India opposing the project. The 1st respondent has not considered the

impact of pollution from the airport and the impact of noise on animal and avian lives

nor the pollution during combustion of fuel. 19. Hence, the appellant herein seeks to quash the EC granted by the 1st

respondent in the impugned order dated 18.11.2013, to remove all constructions

made and to restore the area to its original pristine state, initiate and direct the 1 st

respondent to initiate appropriate action against the 4th respondent, EIA consultant

as per law for providing false and misleading data in the EIA report and to direct the

4th respondent to pay compensation for the damages caused to the area and restore

the ecology of the region. Appeal No. 173 of 2014 (SZ) 20. This appeal has been filed by the appellant herein in his capacity as a

social worker as well as a political activist in Pathanamthitta District in Kerala State.

He is an ex-Member of Legislative Assembly, Kerala representing Konni

Constituency. He is a native of Aranmula in Pathanamthitta District. He is the

Secretariat Member of the Patthanamthitta District Committee of Communist Party of

India (Marxist) which is a recognized political party in India. This appeal has been

filed aggrieved by the EC granted by the 1st respondent/MoEF to the 2nd respondent,

the Managing Director, M/s. KGS Limited, Chennai-20 in Tamil Nadu. Only two

respondents have been arrayed by the appellant in this appeal. The facts of the

cases that could be made out from the averments of the appeal grounds can be

stated as follows: 20 21. An application was submitted by the 2nd respondent to the 1st respondent

seeking EC under section 3 of the Environmental Protection Act in Form I for

developing an international airport on a stretch of land in Kozhencherry Taluk. The

proposal involves development of airport at Mallapuzhasserry Aranmula,

Kindangannur villages in Kozhencherry Taluk in Patthanamthitta District of Kerala

State on a plot area of 500 acres to cater Airbus A-300 aircraft. The airport is

proposed to be constructed on land mentioned in Annexure A2 herein which

contains paddy land and wetland acquired by the K.J. Abraham, Kozhencherry in the

name of a charitable society by name Mt. Zion Charitable Society and reclaimed by

him in violation of Kerala Land Utilisation Order, 1967, Kerala Conservation of Paddy

Land and Wetland Act, 2008 and Kerala Land Conservancy Act, 1957 . The land also

comprises of 8.87 acres of Government land encroached upon by the said K.J.

Abraham. He had also illegally filled up a natural water course locally known as

Valiyathodu which is also known as for some distance as Kozhithode and which is a

tributary to River Pampa. The total length of Kozhithode is 12 km. extending from

Prakkanam near Pathanamthitta town to River Pampa at Aranmula. The paddy land

filled and reclaimed unauthorized by K.J. Abraham is part of a large extent of puncha

paddy land (Padashekharam) which are in low lying land that get water logged

during monsoon, where paddy is cultivated and drained after monsoon. During the

season of cultivation the field will be marshy. Puncha paddy fields are thus wetlands

and they also serve as flood plains of nearby river and provide to maintain waterbed

for the locality as in the case of wetland which is not used for paddy cultivation. The

stretch of paddy field proposed to be reclaimed for the said purpose serve for natural

flood control in the area when the river Pampa overflows in monsoon seasons. Even

without any cultivation in the said land, maintenance of the said lands in its nature as 21 low lying wetland is essential for controlling the flush of water in river Pampa during

monsoon as the river hits the plains at the area mentioned above. Protection of the

said area of low lying wetland is essential to maintain water bed so as to provide

water in wells of the nearby villages. 22. The revenue authorities have already initiated proceedings against the

unauthorized reclamation of paddy land and wetland, as also the encroachment of

Government land and for filling natural water streams vide Annexure-A3(a) and

Annexure -A4 filed herein which would prove that K. J. Abraham had acquired the

land and reclaimed it violating the law of the land. When application dated

28.06.2010 was submitted by the 2nd respondent, no land was in their possession or

ownership. The land reclaimed by K. J. Abraham in the name of Mt. Zion Charitable

Society is said to have been transferred in favour of the 2 nd respondent on

20.12.2010. Annexures-A3 and A4, however, go to show that no mutation with

regard to the said land has been so far effected in favour of the 2nd respondent. On

submitting the application for EC, the EAC it its 91 st meeting held on 21st-23rd

September 2010 finalized the Terms of Reference ( for short 'ToR') for the proposed

airport and also decided to conduct a public hearing as per the provisions of EIA

Notification, 2006. Advertisements regarding the public hearing for the comments on

the proposed project were published in 'Malayala Manorama' and Mathrubhoomi,

Malayalam dailies and in 'The Hindu' English daily. The hearing as notified in the

said dailies did not take place on the date thus notified and the same was postponed

to 29.04.2011 and on this day also the hearing was not held. The hearing took place

on 10.05.2011. The dates of postponement of the hearing were not published in any

newspaper after 06.02.2011 and hence, the public at large had no information of the

hearing scheduled on 10.05.2011. As there was no proper notice for the hearing, 22 only a few persons and organizations took part in the hearing. The views of the

public at large were, therefore, not reflected in the so called public hearing

purportedly held on 10.05.2011 23. The EAC in its 107th meeting held on 15th-16th December, 2011 without

any detailed discussion and without proper consideration of the facts and

circumstances recommended the grant of EC for the proposed airport at Aranmula.

Meanwhile, 'Salim Ali Foundation' a registered charitable trust with a mission 'Bio-

diversity Conservation and Food Security' conducted a thorough study on the

impacts of the proposed airport on the bio-diversity and ecology of the wetlands and

paddy lands in Aranmula and its adjoining villages along with analyses of the

tangible and intangible benefits of the ecosystem. It analyzed (i) EIA conducted by

Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd., for KGS Aranmula Airport Ltd., who proposed the airport, (ii) the need for an airport at Aranmula, and (iii) the inevitable need for restoring the

paddy land. The Legislative Committee for Environment of the Kerala Legislature

had unanimously recommended against establishing an airport at Aranmula

considering the adverse impact it would cause to the environment and ecology of the

State. The 1st respondent has not considered the findings of the Salim Ali Foundation

and has consciously avoided answers the aspects pointed out therein which are

major concerns of the public and are most relevant while deciding upon granting EC

to a major project like constructing an airport. While issuing the EC, the 1st

respondent has failed to take into account the need for an airport at Aranmula at the

cost of environment and ecology of more than three agrarian villages in Kerala,

which are having great traditions. The 1st respondent failed to see that Aranmula is

located almost at the middle of the International Airports at Cochin and at

Trivandrum with a distance of 128 km, 135 km, respectively. If the proposed airport 23 at Aranmula is expected to serve Pathanamthitta, Kottyam, Idukki and Alappuzha

districts, the people from every part of the said districts can reach either the

international at Cochin or at Trivandrum within not more than 2 hours by road and

roads are made available to have easy access to the international airports to cater

the needs of the people from the districts to whom the proposed airport is expected

to serve. 24. The 1st respondent has not taken into account the need of the land

necessary to be acquired for providing infrastructural facilities such as roads leading

to the airport from various places. It has also not considered the competitive impact

of the new international airport at Aranmula upon the existing international airports

causing its impacts upon the environment and ecology of the State including the

natural resources already invested to construct them. A localized impact assessment

on the environment and ecology while implementing the project is insufficient while

granting EC for a major project like the one in hand. The negative externality that

would be caused to the society as whole while implementing the proposed airport

project was not assessed by the 1st respondent. The EC has been granted on the

assumption that only a minimum extent of 500 acres of land is required for runway,

apron, taxiway etc., and the remaining area will be preserved in its natural form.

However, the report of feasibility study conducted by the Airports Authority of India

has noted that the developers aim for an ultimate operation of wide bodied aircraft

which requires more extent of land and with the present availability of land, the

proposed airport can cater only to smaller aircrafts and only for daytime operations. It

also mentions the necessity to level the hillocks around the airport site so as to

enable the safe landing of aircrafts. Leveling of hillocks is further necessitated when

capacity of the airport is required to be increased in future. While EC has been 24 granted by the 1st respondent for establishing the present airport at Aranmula, it has

not taken into account the future requirements for expansion of the airport and

impacts of such requirements on the environment and ecosystem. The number of

families who will be displaced from their abode is much more than what has been

stated by the 2nd respondent in the application for EC as well as in the subsequent

statements. 25. Hence, the appellant herein seeks the indulgence of this Tribunal to set

aside the EC granted to the proposed international airport at Aranmula and for

directing the 1st respondent not to grant EC to the proposed international airport at

Aranmula. Appeal No. 174 of 2013 (SZ) 26. This appeal has been filed by the appellant herein, an action council

formulated by the Aranmula, Mallapuzhassery and Kidangannoor villages of

Kozhenchery Taluk of Pathanamthitta District. The action council has been

formulated for resisting the illegal move of the respondents in setting up an airport

and other construction by reclaiming the paddy land which will cause serious

environmental damage to the entire area and also the residents of the locality. The

17th respondent arrayed in this appeal is the Ministry of Environment and Forests

(MoEF) of the Central Government. The 18th respondent arrayed in this appeal is

M/s. KGS Aranmula International Airport Ltd., having its registered office at Chennai

in Tamil Nadu and the 19th respondent is K. J. Abraham of Kozhenchery village in

Patthanamthitta District in the State of Kerala. The 20 th respondent arrayed in this

appeal is the Expert Appraisal Committee, MoEF, New Delhi. This appeal has been

filed seeking the indulgence of the Tribunal to set aside the EC granted by the 17 th 25 respondent, directions for 17th and 20th respondents to conduct a proper public

hearing as prescribed in the matter of granting EC to 18th respondent and for

directions to the Government of Kerala to complete the proceedings initiated against

the 19th respondent for restoring 49.725 acres of paddy land reclaimed to its original

form. The brief statement of facts as could be seen from the appeal grounds can be

stated as follows: 27. From the reading of the discussions of facts by the 17 th respondent which

led to the granting of the clearance would clearly show that the 17th respondent

proceeded on the precincts that the entire land in question is either the land already

reclaimed or partly developed. This impression was made on the 17 th respondent by

the State Government as well as the 18th respondent by twisting and suppressing the

material facts. In the application submitted before the 17th respondent, the 18th

respondent has made a false assertion stating that no reclamation is required for the

construction of the proposed Aranmula Airport which is a false statement. As per the

documents produced by the appellant, in which it can be seen that an extent of 211

acres out of the total 248 acres of land which has been purchased by the 18 th

respondent and earmarked for the construction of the airport is either paddy land or

wetland. This fact is supported by the revenue as well as agriculture officers of that

are, who are officers of the Government. The Government, instead of submitting

these facts before the 17th respondent has actually suppressed the facts and has

taken an illegal stand to the effect that the properties placed before the 17 th

respondent as the site for the airport has already been reclaimed and reclamations

cannot have any legal implication as it was done prior to 2008, in which year the Act

had not come into force. This is an illegal stand taken by the State. It is so because,

even prior to 2008 which year the Act was promulgated, Kerala Land Utilization 26 Order was in force and any change in the nature of the land can be made only with

the prior permission from the Government. It is an admitted fact that it is under this

Land Utilization Order, the 19th respondent has submitted necessary application for

getting permission to fill paddy field in an extent of 8 acres and it was suppressed

before the 17th respondent that the authorities have permitted the 19 th respondent to

reclaim the paddy land for construction of an airstrip as part of the Aeronautical

College of the 19th respondent under this order. It was by misusing the permission;

the 19th respondent instead of filling 8 acres of land has filled an extent of 49.72

acres of paddy fields. The Revenue Officers of the State Government have initiated

legal action against the 19th respondent for restoring the above paddy fields to its

original form under the Land Utilization Order. In such circumstances, when the

officers of the Government have initiated proceedings which are still pending under

the Land Utilization Order against the illegal filling and reclamation of the paddy

fields by the 19th respondent, the Government cannot take a stand that since the

reclamation has been made by the 19th respondent prior to 2008 and there is no

illegality committed. 28. Though the 18th respondent has submitted before the 17th respondent that

altogether they are in possession of 350 acres of land earmarked for the purpose of

the airport, the revenue officials have informed the appellant that only 248.37 acres

of lands stand mutated in the name of the 18th respondent and out of the total 248.37

acres of land (99.35.20 ha), 85.74.02 ha of land is paddy field/wetland and only

13.61.00 ha is dry land. In effect, the application which was considered by the 17 th

respondent is for a proposal to construct an airport in the paddy field and which can

be done only by reclaiming the land. The proposed airport cannot be set up in 33.7

acres of dry land and the airport can be set up only by reclaiming the remaining 27 portion of the paddy land converting the same as dry land. The application submitted

by the 18th respondent states that the area in which airport is proposed to be set up

is 16, 250 M2 which comes around 41 acres and even for constructing the terminal

building the available dry land will not suffice. The 17 th respondent was misled by

the 18th respondent and also the Government in granting permission to the 18 th

respondent to construct an airport in a paddy field. From the stipulation in Clause (iii) of the EC granted to the 18th respondent, the contention of this appellant that the

17th respondent has proceeded with the assumption that the proposed airport site is

a dry land stands proved. Moreover, in this stipulation, it is clearly stated that only

the area required for the runway with 1000 m x 150 m (37.07 acres) shall be filled

within the site itself and that almost 80% of the soil from the only elevated area has

already been utilized for illegal reclamation done by the 19 th respondent against

which action was already been initiated by the revenue officials for restoring the

same to its original form of paddy field. The requirement of filling 37 acres at a height

of one meter cannot be completed utilizing the remaining soil in the elevated area of

14.5 acres mentioned in the stipulation. From the stipulation, it is very clear that the

intention of the 17th respondent is only to permit the 18th respondent to fill the dry

land at a height of one meter to make it an elevated portion for the construction of

the runway and all these stipulations were made on the assumption that the entire

land is a dry land. 29. Moreover, in the stipulation, it has been stated that necessary permission

for leveling should be taken as drawn from Kerala Paddy and Wetland Act into the

operation as the filling of paddy land can be made only after obtaining

exemption/permission from the Government of Kerala under Section 10 of Act

subject to regulation by imposing conditions and on recommendations from the 28 monitoring committees as constituted under the Act. The officers of the Government

have informed the appellant that the local or state level committee has not made any

such recommendation to the Government till date for converting the paddy land

which forms part of the land earmarked for setting up the airport. The State

Legislative Committee on Environment has also observed in the report that the

reclamation which was already made by the 19 th respondent has adversely affected

the cultivation of that locality and came to a standstill because of the illegal

reclamation of 49.725 acres of land by the 19th respondent. Besides that, the

appellant has also filed a writ petition in W.P.(C) .No. 8794 of 2013 before the

Hon'ble High Court of Kerala for directions to the State Government to take action

against the 18th and 19th respondents under the Kerala Wetland and Paddy Act,

2008 and thereby restoring the land to its original form. Matters being so, the State

Government will not be able to grant permission to the 18 th respondent to fill up the

land for reclaiming the paddy field for the construction of the airport. In such

circumstances, the permission of the Government is a pre-requisite for the 18th

respondent to submit an application for EC before the 17 th respondent. The

application submitted without the necessary exemption/permission from the State

Government under the Kerala Paddy and Wetland Act, 2008 is defective and

therefore, the grant of clearance made by the 17th respondent on this defective

application itself is illegal. The permission of the Government under the Kerala

Paddy and Wetland Act, 2008 is a pre-requisite for the consideration of the applicant

by the 17th respondent for the grant of EC is evident from the fact that Column No.

22 of the Form I is concerning the existence of a Government order/policy relevant

relating to the site in question. So, the application submitted without exemption from

the State Government permitting the 18th respondent to fill paddy land should not 29 have been considered by the 17th respondent as 211 acres of land out of the total

extent of 248 acres which is in the possession of the 18th respondent and projected

as the site of the proposed airport remains as a paddy field and airport cannot be

constructed in 37 acres of land which includes the illegally filled land. In such

circumstances, the 18th respondent has falsely stated that no Act or order or policy is

applicable in the case of the site in hand. The Government has also supported this

suppression made by the 18th respondent in the application submitted before the 17th

respondent. In the application submitted before the 17th respondent, the 18th

respondent has made a false statement that no reclamation is required and the 18 th

respondent has presented the property before the 17th respondent as

developed/semi developed property. This stand taken by the State Government

contending that the reclamations have already been made prior to 2008 and

therefore, there is no illegality in the reclamation done by the 19 th respondent since it

was prior to the promulgation of the Act, 2008 cannot be accepted since the Land

Utilization Order was in force and it was by this order several actions have already

been initiated against the 19th respondent by the officials of the Government against

the reclamation of 49.725 acres of land. The orders passed by the revenue officials

directing the reclaimed land of 49.725 acres to be restored to its original form have

not been subjected to legal scrutiny till this date. This legal situation is applicable to

the 18th respondent also and in such circumstance, the 17 th respondent ought not to

have granted EC. 30. The 18th respondent has suppressed the fact that Kerala Land Reforms

Act is applicable to the case in hand. As per this Act, no person is entitled to hold

any land in excess of the ceiling limit prescribed under this Act and the permission

from the Government is required to hold any land in excess of the ceiling limit which 30 can be granted under section 81(3) of the Act in public interest. The appellant has

already filed an application before the Government requesting the Government to

conduct a public hearing to ascertain the public interest before granting exemption to

the 18th respondent and the appellant herein has also filed a writ petition in W.P. (C )

No. 14220 of 2013 for a direction to Government to conduct a public hearing with

due notice to the residents of the 13 Grama Panchayat and Pathanamthitta

Municipality before granting exemption to the 18th and 19th respondents which is the

subject matter before the Land Board. It is an admitted fact that the application

submitted by the 18th respondent before the Government for exemption is not yet

allowed by the Government. Hence, the holding of the land by the 18 th respondent is

illegal even now. The 18th respondent was holding the land which is projected as the

site for the proposed airport at the time of making an application before the 17 th

respondent and in effect, the 17th respondent was granted EC to the 18th respondent

for setting up an airport in the property which is illegally held by the 18 th respondent.

In such circumstance, the proposed land cannot be treated as land owned by the

18th respondent and the clearance by the 17th respondent permitting the 18th

respondent to set up an airport is illegal and without jurisdiction. 31. From the clearance issued by the 17th respondent, it is clear that the 17th

respondent has not independently assessed the veracity of the claims made by the

18th respondent and the State Government. The reports of the Legislative Committee

for Environment and the Salim Ali Foundation were not properly analyzed. There is

no independent assessment or appraisal of the various contentions and submissions

made by the 18th respondent and the State Government. The 17th respondent has

simply reiterated the various contentions and submissions of the 18 th respondent and

the State Government and simply accepted the report of the EAC and granted 31 license. The 17th respondent is, therefore, not justified in granting EC especially

when the Writ Petition (C) No. 8794 of 2013 are pending before the Hon'ble High

Court of Kerala filed by the appellant herein in this behalf. 32. Hence, based on the above averments the appellant in this appeal has

sought for the indulgence of the Tribunal to set aside the impugned EC dated

18.11.2013 granted to the 17th respondent, the MoEF, to direct the 17th and 20th

respondents to conduct a proper public hearing as prescribed in the matter of

granting EC to the 18th respondent for setting up an airport and to direct the

Government of Kerala to complete the proceedings initiated against the 19th

respondent for restoring 49.725 acres of paddy land reclaimed to its original form. Appeal No. 1 of 2014 33. This appeal has been filed by the appellant herein challenging the EC

granted to the 3rd respondent namely M/s. KGS Aranmula International Airport

Limited, Chennai by the 1st and 2nd respondents, namely the MoEF dated

18.11.2013. The Kerala State Pollution Control Board and the Secretary to

Government, Department of Revenue of the State of Kerala are arrayed as 4 th and

6th respondents, respectively. The 5th respondent, Chairman, Committee of

Environment, Kerala Legislature, Kerala is deleted. The facts of the case of this

appellant as averred in the appeal grounds raised can be briefly stated thus: Aranmula is home to the famous ancient "Parthasarathy" temple which is a protected

monument by the Archeological Survey of India and which attracts lakhs of devotees

across the country. The temple apart from the ancient architecture marvel is also

home to 18th century murals that are well preserved and is recognized by the United

Nations Development Program (UNDP). The temple by itself is surrounded by

wetlands and the customs and traditions associated with the temple and its

surrounding areas mirror the upkeep of the ecology of the wetland therein. The 3 rd

respondent has continued to refill the wetland more specifically the water body,

Karimaram channel which an effective water reservoir is collecting all the excess

water during flooding of the river Pampa and this is running through the specified

area. In consequence, the entire area has become prone to frequent flooding due to 33 the unnatural filling up of the land and has resulted in serious ecological imbalance.

Till the enactment of the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act, 2008 as

aforesaid, the filling up of paddy lands in the State of Kerala was regulated by the

Kerala Land Utilization Order 1967, which was enacted under the Essential

Commodities Act . As per the said order, for converting a paddy land for any other

purpose, previous sanction from the District Collector was necessary as can be seen

from clause VI of the Kerala Land Utilization Order. As per clause VII of the Kerala

Land Utilization Order the District Collector has power to ensure that the illegal

conversion of the paddy land is restored to paddy cultivate paddy in the area.

Likewise, under the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act there is total

prohibition of conversion or reclamation of any paddy land and Sec.13 enables the

District Collector to restore the land, illegally reclaimed or converted. The

Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act as the name suggests was enacted seeing

the urgent need to put in place legislation that would restrict the rampant conversion

of wetlands and paddy lands resulting in widespread loss of ecological balance . The

aims and objects of the Act state clearly that the legislation is enacted primarily to

promote growth in agricultural sector and preserve the ecological balance of the

State of Kerala. The conservation and preservation of wetlands and paddy fields are

hand in glove with maintenance of ecological balance. India is a signatory to the

Ramsar Convention on Wetlands and the Ashtamudi wetland which is a designated

wetland under the Convention comes within the vicinity of the area proposed for this

illegal airport by the 3rd Respondent. The 1st and 2nd respondents are bound to follow

the conditions under the Convention which includes detailed studies to be conducted

and measures to be undertaken to conserve the biodiversity of the wetland. The 1 st

and 2nd respondents have very clearly ignored this fact while giving the impugned 34 clearance to the 3rd respondent. The fact that the land in which the proposed

Aranmula Airport is to be established is a paddy land and there is total prohibition of

converting any paddy land in the State of Kerala except for governmental public

purposes. This aspect is totally suppressed in the proposal for EC made by the 3rd

respondent. Though these aspects were clearly and unambiguously brought to the

notice of respondents 1 and 2, these aspects which are of critical importance for

considering the environmental clearance is seen ignored (Annexure AI). 35. The land measuring an extent of more than 350 acres, which is now

proposed by the 3rd respondent for establishing the airport, was originally owned by

one K.J.Abraham @ Kalamannil Abraham, Kalamannil House, Kozhenchery,

Pathanamthitta. He had purchased about 350 acres of land in the name of two

registered societies in which he was the Chairman and his family members are the

office bearers. The aforesaid K.J. Abraham acquired vast extent of paddy field in

Aranmula, Mallapuzhassery and Kidangannur village right from 2004 onwards. At

that time the land purchased by K.J. Abraham was coming under the provisions of

the Kerala Land Utilization Order 1967. The aforesaid K.J.Abraham proposed to the

local Panchayat that he is intending to start an Aeronautical College and sought

permission from the local Panchayat to reclaim 8 acres of paddy land. The local

Panchayat without any authority whatsoever under any provision of law, arbitrarily

issued permission for the reclamation of paddy land. On the basis of the alleged

illegal permission granted by the local Panchayat, Shri.K. J. Abraham illegally filled

up an extent of 49.725 acres of paddy land. This act prima facie was done in

violation of the Kerala Land Utilization Order and Kerala Conservation of Paddy and

Wetland Act 2008. This paddy land reclamation resulted in mass public protest by

the local people. The illegal land filling by the said person also resulted in filling up of 35 irrigation canals which in turn caused flooding and other adverse effects to the

nearby paddy fields. Vide letter dated 26.10.07 the Revenue Divisional Officer in his

letter to the Tahsildar has explicitly stated that the aforesaid K.J. Abraham had

illegally reclaimed 3.56 hectares of land and has also trespassed into 8.87 acres of

Government land. It is further stated in the above letter that the reclamation of the

Nilams/paddy fields is done by mining ordinary earth which is a minor mineral from

his 5.92 Acres of land in Sy.No. 392/2. No sanction for mining ordinary earth is also

obtained by the said K.J. Abraham. The letter dated 03.05.2008 of the Revenue

Divisional Officer to the Circle Inspector of Police Aranmula and true copy of letter

dated 09.02.2009 of the Assistant Engineer, Minor Irrigation Department to K.J.

Abraham is evidencing the above fact. As can be seen from the letter, the Revenue

Divisional Officer had directed the Sub Inspector of Police to ensure that there is no

illegal filling up of paddy land. By another letter from the Irrigation Department, the

said K.J. Abraham was directed to restore the land and the report of the Agricultural

Officer would show that paddy cultivation has become impossible in large extent of

paddy land because of the illegal filling and encroachment into government land. The

above facts will show that there has been widespread illegal filling up of paddy land

by the said K.J. Abraham and also encroachment in the irrigation canal. This will

show that there is illegal filling up of a big canal to 800 m and the encroachment in

the government land by the said K. J. Abraham. This will also show that an estimate

of Rs. 19 lakhs as on 19.11.2009 is required for restoring the irrigation canal. 36. It is also clear from the letter dated 03.08.2008 that proceedings under the

Kerala Land Utilization Order was initiated by the District Collector for restoring the

illegally filled up paddy land. As per letter dated 22.10.2012, the Assistant Director,

Agriculture also informed the Principal Agricultural Officer, Pathanamthitta of the 36 above illegality of filling up of paddy land. This also shows that out of the 315 acres

of land possessed by the said Shri K.J. Abraham, about 70 acres are partially and

illegally filled up, adversely affecting the irrigation facilities to the rest of the paddy

lands. It is also reported that during the rainy season, when the holy river 'Pampa'

starting from Sabarimala flows with full capacity, the flood like situation is prevented

because the water flows to the paddy fields at Aranmula. Since the free flow of water

through Kozhithodu is obstructed, the flood like situation in the area cannot be ruled

out. It is also reported that because of the reclamation of paddy land, the ground

water table in the area will be lowered and there is possibility of natural disaster as

well as drinking water scarcity. Thus, it is clear that there has been illegal filling up of

paddy land resulting in environmental degradation. The Joint Land Revenue

Commissioner, State of Kerala,in his report dated 25.08.2012 has highlighted the

illegalities in filling up of paddy land and has recommended a vigilance enquiry into

the entire incident. Thus, it is absolutely clear that the major portion of the land now

proposed by the 3rd respondent for establishing the Aranmula airport is still paddy

land, and the balance portion is wetland. These are illegally filled up in violation of

the Kerala Land Utilization Order as well as Kerala Conservation of Paddy and

Wetland Act, 2008 . It is clear that the revenue authorities are taking action to restore

the paddy land, illegally filled up, to its original state. The fact that if the actions

against illegal conversion of the paddy land are brought to logical conclusion by

revenue authorities, the already filled up lands will become paddy fields again was

not even considered. This vital aspect is suppressed by the 3 rd respondent while

submitting an application for EC before the MoEF. As a matter of fact, the District

Collector Pathanamthitta has informed the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of

Industries by letter dated 23.7.2012 that almost the entire land possessed by the 3 rd 37 respondent which was obtained from aforesaid K.J. Abraham are paddy lands. The

Legislative Committee on Environment of the Kerala Legislature Assembly in its

report has clearly and in unambiguous terms found that major portion of land held by

the 3rd respondent is paddy land and that the committee cannot agree with the

development activity that would destroy water resources, acres of paddy fields which

are cultivated for centuries and also would destroy the biodiversity of the area. The

legislative committee has also observed that action for the illegally converting paddy

land under the Land Utilization Order and Kerala Conservation of Paddy and

Wetland Act should be taken. The Environment Committee of the Kerala Legislative

Assembly had filed the report after eliciting views of at least 3000 people in the

locality whereas the alleged public hearing held for obtaining the EC was attended

by just about 80 persons including the officials. Moreover, the entire aspect

regarding the illegal filling up of paddy land was enquired by the Joint Land Revenue

Commissioner, State of Kerala who filed a report on the land issues connected with

Aranmula Airport. This will show that there has been illegal conversion of paddy land

as well as illegal filling up of poramboke/government 'thodu'. The Land Revenue

Commissioner has recommended a vigilance inquiry into the whole issue. The

Government of Kerala has filed a report before the MoEF. As can be seen from 2 nd

page of Annexure A XIV, the government has reported that the allegations made

regarding the illegal filling up of paddy land etc., if true, is very grave and that could

erode the validity of the environment impact assessment study. However, in spite of

Annexure A XIV, not even an enquiry is made regarding the alleged illegal filling up

of paddy land and also the proposal for filling up of about 350 acres of paddy land,

before issuing EC. In fact, the Government of Kerala has itself brought to the notice

of the Union of India that a portion of paddy land has been filled up, and this can 38 have adverse environmental impact. It is not known whether the agency which

conducted the EIA considered this aspect. It is proven that filling up of wetland can

adversely affect ground water recharge which would in turn disturb the agricultural

activities of the nearby areas. Further, it is true that earth is required for filling up of

wetlands to make it suitable for the project. This ought to have been identified before

hand and EIA should have looked into that aspect also. However, these aspects

were totally ignored while passing EC order. 37. The Kerala State Assembly has got 140 elected members of legislature.

Majority of the MLAs of Kerala Legislative Assembly cutting across political

affiliations i.e. 72 MLAs have addressed a letter to the Hon'ble Prime Minister of

India, stating that there has been illegal filling up of wetland, paddy field as well as

canals and that the majority of the MLAs of Kerala Legislature has submitted to the

Hon'ble Prime Minister that the project has no moral, legal or scientific ground for

existence and it is an impractical project which would cause irreversible damage to

the environment. Hence the majority of the MLAs of Kerala Legislative Assembly as

well as retired Judges of Hon'ble Supreme Court and High Court of Kerala, religious

leaders of all faiths, political leaders of all political parties as well as former diplomats

had requested for rejecting the proposal of the airport. These documents will clearly

show that the land in which the proposed airport is to be established is a paddy land.

These are ignored while granting the impugned EC. In the State of Kerala filling up

of paddy land for governmental public purpose is illegal. Annexure A I in the

impugned EC mentions that the paddy fields have to be filled for run way, apron, taxi

way etc. The Chief Operating Officer of the 3 rd respondent admits that about 350

acres of uncultivated paddy land is to be filled up for providing public utility service as

part of the project. In the feasibility study conducted by the Airport Authority of India, 39 New Delhi (AAI) it is clearly mentioned that on the date of visit of the Expert

Committee i.e., on 15.10.2009, filling up of land for the purpose of runway is going

on. Admittedly, the aforesaid filling up activity is done in paddy land, which was

prohibited under Sec.3 of the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act. The

photographs attached to Annexure A XVII feasibility study would show the illegality

perpetuated even after Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act 2008 has

come into force. As per the copy of the letter dated 10.06.2009 issued by KITCO

Limited to the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Kerala, it is necessary to convert 350 acres

of paddy land to cater the requirement of the proposed project. Thus, it is absolutely

clear that the land proposed is a paddy field and under the present enactment

namely Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act 2008, there is an absolute

and total prohibition of conversion or reclamation of paddy land. Sec.2 (xii) defines

paddy land as all types of land situated in the State where paddy is cultivated at least

once in a year or suitable for paddy cultivation but uncultivated and left fallow. Thus,

the entire land proposed for the project is a paddy land as defined under Sec.2 (xii) of the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act. Sec.3 prohibits reclamation or

conversion of paddy land except under Sec.10 which provides for grant of

exemption. However, Sec.10 does not enable the government to grant exemption

from the provisions of the Act except for any public purpose. Public purposes defined

under Sec.2 (xiv) is that the schemes undertaken or financed by the State or Central

Governments or statutory bodies or other schemes specified by the government.

Thus, only if the project is financed or undertaken by the State Government, the

exemption can be granted. In Annexure A I, in order to overcome the Kerala

Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act , the State Government has observed that

since approximately 100 acres of land is notified as industrial area and since the 40 reclamation was before 2008, the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act 2008 is not applicable. Both these grounds do not stand scrutiny of law. The

notification SRO.No.185/2011 declaring that the area is an industrial area has

absolutely no relevance vis-a-vis the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act 2008. Once it is found that the land is a paddy land as defined under Sec.2 (xii) of

the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act, there is no escape from the

provisions of the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act . The 2 nd reason

stated is that reclamation was done prior to the coming into force of Kerala

Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act 2008. This itself is not correct in view of the

report of the KITCO (Annexure A XVIII), feasibility study of the AAI as well as the

letter of the 3rd respondent Annexure A XVI, which will show that even after

commencement of the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act , the paddy

lands need to be converted or reclaimed and are being reclaimed as can be seen in

the photographs of Annexure A XVII report of the AAI. Apart from that, even if the

reclamation of paddy land is made prior to 2008, the law that is applicable is the

Kerala Land Utilization Order 1967. It is abundantly clear from documents contained

in Annexure A II to X that actions are being initiated by revenue authorities against

illegal reclamation of the paddy land both under the Kerala Land Utilization Order as

well as under the Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land Act . Hence, the observation

made in EC (Annexure A I) that since the area is declared as an industrial area and

the reclamation if done before the commencement of the 2008 Act, is not legally

sustainable is not tenable. Even in the said observation of the State Government, in

Annexure A I paragraph VII (1), it is admitted that paddy field is left fallow and natural

irrigation facilities have been encroached upon and blocked at several places by

K.J.Abraham who had allegedly sold the property to the 3 rd respondent. Hence, the 41 observation in Annexure A I that the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act will not be applicable is not correct. 38. The proposal involves development of an airport in Pathanamthitta district

in a plot of area 500 acres. It is revealed that in the meeting held on 21 to 23

September 2010, the ToR was finalized. In the said ToR, the issue regarding filling

up of paddy land was not one of the points to be noted. When there was newspaper

report and complaints, the project was again reconsidered by the EAC in September

2011. Thereafter, the EAC noticed that there is allegation of inclusion of wetlands

and conversion of paddy lands in the project. This was put to the proponent as well

as the government. On the basis of the reply filed by the government as well as the

proponent it was found that there is no paddy cultivation for past 10 years which is

not factually correct. Moreover, even if there is no cultivation of paddy for ten years,

it does not take the land out of the purview of Kerala Conservation of Paddy and

Wetland Act . As can be seen from relevant pages of the note file of the Government

of Kerala (Annexure A XX) in reply to the enquiry made by the MoEF, based on the

article in 'The Hindu', the Additional Secretary has given his observation. As can be

seen from Annexure A XX it was mentioned that the enquiry report of the Directorate

of Environment and Climate Change does not reveal reclamation of wetland. As for

the reclamation of the land where paddy cultivation was there ten years also it

requires statutory clearance, it is for the proponent to get the clearance. All these

should be examined as a part of EIA Process. However, as can be seen from EC

(Annexure A I) none of these aspects was examined. In para 52 of the Annexure A

XX, it is admitted that the promoters without obtaining clearance have filled up

wetland. It is also reported that commencement of the work without getting clearance

from the MoEF is illegal. It is also admitted that filling up of wetland has 42 environmental impact and that the agency which conducted the environmental study

has not considered this aspect. The MoEF was requested to consider this aspect.

Further in paragraph 54, it is also admitted that ordinary earth is required for further

frilling up of wetland to make it suitable for the project and the EIA should have

considered that aspect also. This was also not considered while issuing EC.

Moreover, the fact that there is no paddy cultivation and the paddy land is left fallow

and uncultivated does not mean that the land goes out of the definition of the paddy

land under the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act and also looses the

character of natural paddy land except that there is no cultivation of paddy, a paddy

land even if left uncultivated for 10 years, serves all other ecological purposes

including serving the upkeep of the ground water table, breeding ground and fauna

and the balancing factor of the local environment. However, as can be seen from

Annexure A XIX, the EAC has brushed aside these allegations even though it is

clearly found that filling is required for development of runway, taxi way etc., and the

details of area required to be filled, were not addressed in the EIA. However,

accepting a vague reply from the 3rd respondent, the EAC recommended the

proposal for EC. Thus, it is clear that the ToR, was finalized without including the

question regarding the existence of paddy fields and filling up of the same. 39. As can be seen from the feasibility study prepared by the AAI, in the

suggestion and recommendation in clause VI, it is clearly stated that as the possible

approach would be from 34 N, the hillocks situated near the area can be obstruction

for navigation aids. Hence, action to acquire and level the hillocks should be initiated.

However, in the ToR as well as in EC, the environment impact of removing of these

hillocks is clearly omitted. 43 40. The proposal made by the 3rd respondent in Form No.1 would show that

there is no necessity for making any new roads or other transportation facility for the

purpose. However, as can be clearly seen from the report of the AAI, there is not

even an approach road to the site in question where the airport is proposed. The

documents produced before the Central Government would show that there is

necessity to provide four lane road from the proposed site of airport to a distance of

more than 8 km in two directions. Thus, the proposal of the airport and the

construction of at least four lane new roads to a distance of 16 km is an integral part

of the project. Without roads or other transport facilities, functioning of an airport is

impossible. For construction of the aforesaid roads, large extent of paddy fields and

wetlands haves to be reclaimed and filled up. Apart from causing environmental

disaster in the area, the filling up of paddy land needs ordinary earth. Thus, the

social impact of the establishment of the airport by the 3 rd respondent especially the

necessity of road connectivity should have been a critical item of ToR, which is not

included in ToR, nor is this aspect considered in the EC. 41. The MoEF, as per Notification No. SO 1533 dated 14.09.2006, has issued

the notification, prescribing the procedure for getting EC. As a part of the screening,

scoping and appraisal of the project, there is a procedure called "public consultation".

As can be seen from clause III (ii), the public consultation shall ordinary have two

parts. (i) Public hearing at the site and (ii) responses in writing from other concerned

persons having stake in the environment. Appendix 4 of the said notification

prescribes the procedure for public hearing. As can be seen from clause 2.3 and 2.4,

on receipt of the draft EIA report, the authority shall arrange wide publicity of the

report to elicit the views of the public. The State Pollution Control Board has also a

duty to conduct a public hearing. Clause 3 of the appendix to the notification shows 44 that the Pollution Control Board has to advertise in two daily news papers, the exact

date, time and venue of the conduct of public hearing and minimum notice period of

30 days shall be provided for furnishing the responses. Clause 3.2 shows that the

advertisement shall inform the public about the place where the public could access

the report before the public hearing. Clause 3.3 provides that no postponement of

the date or time or venue of the public hearing shall be undertaken unless the

emergency contingencies mentioned in the clause happen. Clause 3.4 provides that,

if the public hearing is adjourned, the procedure prescribed under clause 3.1 has to

be again undertaken. 42. In the present case, there had been hasty attempts to conduct the alleged

public hearing with the sole purpose of ensuring that the procedure is complied with

in a mechanical manner, without holding on to the spirit of the necessity of public

hearing. This is clear from the following facts: On 02.02.2011, the 3rd respondent

requested the Kerala State Pollution Control Board to arrange public hearing on the

basis of the EIA report. The next day, in the Pollution Control Board letter dated on

03.02.2011, the Secretary of the Kerala State Pollution Control Board wrote to the

District Collector for arranging a public hearing on behalf of the Board. The District

Collector immediately made arrangements for public hearing to be held on

10.03.2011 at Collectorate Conference Hall, Pathanamthitta. I. As can be seen from Annexure A XXI the public hearing is

 related to the environmental issues of water, air and sound

 pollution by construction of the airport in 347 acres of land. No

 agenda on reclamation of paddy lands or use of illegally filled up

 paddy lands. 45 II. The public hearing notice does not make any mention of the

conversion of paddy land for the purpose of construction as well

as leveling of hillocks and using of ordinary earth, a minor mineral,

for filling purpose. It does not mention the issue relating to

construction of four lane roads for 16 km. III. On 04.03.2013, the Pollution Control Board in its attempt to

ensure hasty public hearing, requested the Chief Electoral Officer

to permit conduct of the public hearing on 10.03.2011 itself. The

Chief Electoral Officer informed the Pollution Control Board that

the public hearing has to be deferred till the election process is

over. The said information is issued as per letter dated 07.03.2011

of the Electoral Officer to the Secretary of the Pollution Control

Board. IV. The Pollution Control Board by letter dated 24.03.2011 in its

anxiety to hold public hearing at the earliest again wrote to the

District Collector to conduct the public hearing immediately after

the election was over i.e., on 13.04.2011, though the election

process would be over only after counting and declaration of

result. V. The 3rd respondent met the Chief Electoral Officer and

obtained permission to conduct the public hearing after the poll

process was over on 13.4.2011. VI. The Pollution Control Board requested the District Collector

to convene the Public Hearing on 29.04.2011 at 11 am in the

Office of the District Collector. The newspaper publication was 46 made in 'The Hindu' daily on 27.03.2011 that the Public Hearing

for construction of new airport at Aranmula would be held on

29.4.2011. As can be seen from newspaper report dated

27.03.2011 in Annexure A XXII, the advertisement did not reveal

whether it was an advertisement in accordance with the prescribed

procedure for public hearing for the purpose of EC. In contrast to

Annexure A XXI newspaper advertisement did not reveal the

purpose of public hearing. It only said the postponed public

hearing for construction of airport will be held on 29.4.2011. The

said advertisement itself is faulty. VII. However, no public hearing was held on 29.04.2011 also

because of inconvenience of the District Collector. The local land

owners have, in the meanwhile, filed objection before the District

Collector regarding the aforesaid project. As per the document in

Annexure A XXIII, the paddy land is proposed to be filled up for

the purpose of airport is not mentioned. VIII. Since the Public Hearing on 29.04.2011 was not held, the

Pollution Control Board by letter dated 06.05.2011 informed the

District Collector that the Public Hearing should be held on

10.05.2011 at 11 am in the conference hall of the Collectorate and

the details regarding the public hearing should be published.

However, to the knowledge of the Appellant, no newspaper

advertisement regarding the public hearing scheduled to be held

on 10.5.2011 as mandated in the notification of the Union Ministry

was published. 47 43. The appellant is an environmentalist who campaigns against illegal and

disastrous exploitation of environment and is in the forefront of the people's agitation

against Aranmula Airport and also a member of Wildlife Board constituted by the

State Government. In Pathanamthitta District the contest between the rival political

fronts was very intense and one of the major issues was the proposed Aranmula

airport. The election process in the State of Kerala started on the first week of March

2011 the polling was held on 13.04.2011. The counting of votes was posted on

11.05.2011. This means that on 10.05.2013 - the penultimate day of counting many

of the persons who are involved in political activities like the appellant were in the

midst of arranging the party workers as the counting agents and other work in the

connection of election process. Apart from that, the politically conscious Kerala

people were all eagerly waiting for the election results. It is at the midst of this highly

contested election, an excuse of public hearing was conducted in order to complete

the formalities prescribed without complying with the spirit of the purpose of public

hearing. As a matter of fact, the appellant was present for the public hearing on

10.3.2011 as well as 29.04.2011. On both these days the public hearing was

adjourned. There was no newspaper advertisement regarding the public hearing on

10.05.2011. The conduct of the public hearing on the penultimate day of counting of

votes in the ballot boxes in a politically conscious state is solely for the purpose of

avoiding public participation in the public hearing. This is abundantly clear from the

fact that in the alleged public hearing held on 10.05.2011 the total number of

participants was only 80 persons, whereas in the public hearing conducted by the

Environment committee of the Kerala Legislative Assembly on the same issue more

than 3000 persons participated. 48 44. The illegality of public hearing without proper newspaper advertisement

can be seen from the copy of the minutes prepared by the Pollution Control Board as

per the document in Annexure A XXV. As can be seen from Annexure A XXV, there

is no mention regarding the newspaper advertisement of the public hearing held on

10.05.2011. It also shows that only 80 persons including officials participated.

Even the copy of minutes of the proceedings would show that many of the

participants had raised the issue of illegal reclamation of paddy land though it was

ignored as not part of agenda. Hence, it is absolutely clear that the public hearing

held on 05.10.2011 is a farce and without proper notice. 45. A reading Annexure A I of EC would show that the proponent had got

ownership and title over 350 acres of land in the aforesaid area. This is the

impression one gathers from the list of survey number and lands given as annexure

to Form No. I. However, this list is the list of lands notified as industrial zone. It has

nothing to do with ownership of 3rd respondent. In fact, the majority of land

mentioned in annexure to Form No. I belong to other persons. Moreover, (i) the claim

of the proponent/3rd respondent is that they purchased the land as aforesaid from

one K.J.Abraham. It is pertinent to note that under Sec.83 of the Kerala Land

Reforms Act, no person can hold any property in excess of the ceiling area. Sec.82 of the Kerala Land Reforms Act provides that the maximum land that can be held is

15 acres and the balance excess land automatically vest with the government by

fiction of law. In the present case the person who allegedly sold the subject matter of

land to the 3rd respondent was holding land far above the ceiling area. The land

board has booked a ceiling case under the Kerala Land Reforms Act against the

aforesaid person. Under Sec.84 of the Kerala Land Reforms Act, any voluntary

transfer of property, by any person holding excess land, is invalid. Hence, the 3 rd 49 respondent who claims to be the transferee from the aforesaid K.J.Abraham cannot

have even title or ownership over the property. Thus Annexure A I and the entire

process is based on a wrong factual assumption that the 3 rd respondent has title to

the aforesaid property. This made abundantly clear by the letter issued by the

government to the Department of Environment. Annexure A XXVII admits that the

land is excess land under the Land Reforms Act . However, it says that exemption

can be granted under the Land Reforms Act regarding the ceiling area. It is brought

to the notice of the tribunal that no such exemption can be granted under Sec.81(3) of the Land Reforms Act for various reasons especially in favour of 3 rd respondent

who is not even an owner of the land. 46. The details given by the 3rd respondent in Form I are misleading and

incorrect and for that reason alone the grant of EC is liable to be rejected. As can be

seen from the details mentioned in Annexure A XXVII they are either absolutely false

or half true. The details are given below. I. In column 3 of clause 1.0, it is stated that the proposed area is only 16,250

 square meters, which is absolutely false. The area covers at least 10 times

 the area mentioned in the said entry. In clause 22 of the same table, it is

 wrongly mentioned that there is no government order or relevant policy

 relating to the site. As can be seen from Annexure A II to XIV there are

 various reports of the government and government officials regarding the

 illegal reclamation of paddy land. II. Entry in clause 24(c) that there is no order or direction of the court is

 absolutely false. 50 III. In clause II serial No.1.1 it is wrongly stated that no permanent

or temporary change in land use, land cover or topography including

increase in the intensity of land use will be there by construction of

the proposed airport. This is absolutely false since large areas of

paddy land and wetland will be converted and used and there will be

total change in the land use pattern, the land cover and the

topography of the land. This will also cause increase in the intensity

of land use. Likewise, the documents produced in the above

application would show that there is thick vegetation and also there

will be threat to the biodiversity in the entire paddy land. Clause 1.2

sways that the vegetation and buildings will be relocated. Likewise,

clause 1.3 falsely says that there is no creation of new land uses.

Clause 1.10, falsely says that no reclamation work in the project is

necessary. This is only to mislead the authority, especially to show

that there is no paddy land in the area, which is factually incorrect. IV. Clause 1.17 wrongly says that no new road for traffic is

necessary and already roads exist. This is factually incorrect. There

is not even a approach road to the site. Moreover when the operation

of the airport commences there will be at least two four lane roads

having 8 kilometers length each. V. The answer to clause 1.24 that there will be no change in the

water bodies or land surface affecting drainage or runoff is wrong. VI. Clause 2.1 falsely says that there is no undeveloped or

agricultural land in the project site. The last page of Form No. 1 deals

with the pattern of land. It is wrongly stated in serial No. 1 that the 51 land in which the project is proposed is not covered by any local

 legislation for ecological, land scale and other related value. As a

 matter of fact, the land is clearly covered by the Kerala Conservation

 of Paddy and Wetland Act , the Kerala Land Utilization Order as well

 as the wetlands under the RAMSAR convention. It is also wrongly

 stated that the Pampa River is 2 kilometers away from the project.

 Pampa River is laying very adjacent to the project. VII. Answer to clause No.8, 9 and 10 are also false. Hence it is

 absolutely clear that application has been filed by the 3 rd respondent

 suppressing material facts. The resultant ToR prepared by the EAC

 and Annexure AI ecological clearance is also illegal. 47. The objections of Salim Ali Foundation were totally ignored. Salim Ali

Foundation, Ayyappankavu Road, Kanimangalam, Thrissur, which is an

organization functioning for the protection of ecology has filed a detailed report

regarding the potential ecological, social and economic impacts of the proposed

project. The Salim Ali Foundation has pointed out various environment disasters

that may occur in the area if the aforesaid project is implemented. This includes the

loss of intangible values of wetlands and paddy lands in the proposed site as well

as adjoining area. It also points out in paragraph 37 to 42 the net physical value of

the land which will be lost by the starting of the proposed project. The total benefits

of the paddy fields and wetlands from the proposed airport area will be about Rs.

335 to 440 crore per year because of loss and damage. It also points out the total

lack of application of mind in preparation of the Environment Impact Assessment

report. However, in the EC, nothing is mentioned about the findings of the report. It

brushed aside the said report, on the basis of an observation by the State 52 Government that there is no wetland as mentioned in the report. In the observation

 of the government extracted from EC, it is wrongly stated that report has confused

 paddy land and wetland. At any rate, since the land which is proposed to be used

 for the said project is a paddy land which not only serves as a food production area

 but also serves for the recharge of ground water level and upkeep of the local

 ecology, the question regarding NPV at least have been addressed. 48. It is clear from the various reports and documents produced as Annexure

A II to VI that the tributary of Pampa River, ValiyaThodu as well as Kozhithode which

serve as the irrigation water source to the entire paddy fields have been encroached

and filled up by the proponent and his predecessor in interest. Steps have been

taken under the Kerala Land Conservancy Act for recovering the aforesaid

Government land. However, the Environment Impact Assessment Report ignores

these allegations also. 1. As a matter of fact, the appellant herein has filed W.P. (c).No.15101/2013

before the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala seeking direction to restore the illegally filled

up paddy land, now in possession of 3rd respondent and which is proposed for the

construction of airport. 49. Hence, the appellant herein has sought for the indulgence of the Tribunal

to: 50. The appellant herein is a social worker and a resident of Kozhencherry

Taluk of Pathanamthitta District in the State of Kerala, where the proposed Aranmula

Airport Project is to be located. He earlier served as the President of the

Pathanamthitta District Panchayat and is a Member of Kerala Pradesh Congress

Committee at present. The appellant is an activist for protection of environment and

promoting paddy cultivation in the Aranmula locality. He is deeply aggrieved by the

EC issued to the proposed airport and its allied activities as it will seriously affect the

life and livelihood of the people living in Kozhencherry Taluk in particular and

Pathanamthitta district in general as it will result in environmental degradation,

stoppage of paddy cultivation in puncha padashekharam (paddy fields) in Aranmula

and depletion of ground water. He files this appeal challenging the EC granted to the 54 Aranmula Air Port Project as a person affected by the project and the negative

impact on paddy land, depletion of ground water and environmental degradation will

directly affect him as also a committed social and political worker, several other

persons affected by the project are also complaining to him about the ill

consequences of the project. The appellant has arrayed the MoEF as the 1 st

respondent, State of Kerala as the 2nd respondent, M/s. K.G.S. Aranmula Airport

Ltd., as the 3rd respondent, Kozhencherry Charitable Education Society as the 4 th

respondent, who was subsequently given up during the proceedings of the appeal

before this Tribunal, M/s. Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd., as the 5 th respondent, Kerala

State Pollution Control Board as the 6th respondent and the District Collector,

Pathanamthitta District in Kerala State as the 7th respondent. The short facts of the

case leading to the filing of this appeal as could be gathered from the grounds of the

appeal filed herein can be stated thus: 51. The impugned EC is issued without considering several environmental,

ecological and social aspects. Conversion of puncha (paddy fields), it consequences

etc., were not even adverted to by the 1st respondent/MoEF. Similarly, the aspects

relating to leveling of neighboring hills and the development of airport , allied

buildings, construction of road etc., etc., were not addressed. The 3 rd

respondent/K.G.S. Aranmula Airport Pvt. Ltd., suppressed several vital details in the

application made seeking EC. The EIA report prepared by the 5th respondent/Enviro

Care Pvt. Ltd., is legally defective and is factually inadequate. The EIA report was

not prepared by the competent persons and ex facie, the impugned EC is bad for

non consideration of relevant aspects and irrelevant considerations. The details

given in the application form in Form I seeking EC did not reveal that the proposed

construction of the project is going to be made in paddy land and that the land use is 55 to be changed or that there will be reclamation of paddy land. Suppression of this

vital aspect has resulted in fundamental error of EC as at no point of time, the

respondents considered the fact of reclamation of paddy land and its consequential

impact on the ecology and environment in its proper perspective. There was also no

impact assessment study relating to conversion of paddy lands. Rice is a major

wetland crop and paddy fields in Kerala are typical wetland eco-systems that serve

numerous important ecological and environmental functions and conversion of paddy

fields involves irreversible transformation of the wetland agro-ecosystems. The

Aranmula puncha and other paddy fields in adjacent villages from the flood plains of

river Pampa and they serve as natural flood control mechanism. None of these

aspects was considered by the 1st respondent/MoEF while issuing the impugned EC. 52. In a letter dated 01.06.2013, (Annexure A14), the 2 nd respondent/State of

Kerala specifically brought to the notice of the 1st respondent/MoEF about some

grave issues raised in the report of the Salim Ali Foundation (Annexure A2), which if

true, will erode the validity of the EIA study and requested to examine those issues

before granting EC and none of these issues was addressed in the impugned EC by

the 1st respondent/MoEF due to non application of mind. While the letter dated

01.06.2013 of the 2nd respondent was referring to the impugned EC for extracting the

views of the 2nd respondent/State of Kerala the land in question as wetlands, instead

of adverting to the expression used in that latter, the 1 st respondent/MoEF ought to

have considered the true nature and significance of the land in question. The 1 st

respondent/MoEF proceeded on the wrong premise that the reclamation of paddy

land by the prior owner, the 4th respondent/Kozhancherry Educational Charitable

Trust is legal and valid. Till the date of judgment dated 24.02.2005 in W.P.(C ).No.

3917 of 2005 of the Hon'ble Kerala High Court, (Annexure A3), the 4 th respondent 56 namely the Kozhencherry Education Trust, the previous owner had no permission to

reclaim the paddy land and even subsequent to that date also, no permission was

issued by any competent authority to the 4 th respondent to reclaim the paddy land in

controversy and contrarily, the competent authorities found that the reclamation of

paddy land by the 4th respondent was illegal and ordered to be restored. The legal

effect and consequences of those proceedings were not enquired into by the 1 st

respondent/MoEF. The observations of the AAI (Annexure A16) following the

inspection held on 02.07.2012 would show that there are obstacles to the proposed

runway approach due to location of a hill and rubber plantation and require to be

removed after obtaining environmental clearances and these aspects have not been

considered by the MoEF/1st respondent while issuing EC. The issues relating to

leveling of the nearby hills were not made a subject matter for enquiry. 53. There is total non application of mind while permitting reclamation of

paddy land for the purpose of runway as the length, orientation etc., were not

finalized. As per the paragraphs 2.2.1 in Annexure A 6 and Annexure A 20, the

proposed length of the runway is 2800 m in Phase I. In Annexure A 11, the 3 rd

respondent/Aranmula Airport Pvt. Ltd., claimed that the construction of runway to a

distance of 1500 m has been already completed and in addition to the existing

runway to extend it to another 1000 m. Whereas, after quoting the letter from the 3 rd

respondent/Aranmula Airport Pvt. Ltd., the 1 st respondent/MoEF has recorded in

paragraph 6(iii) of the EC that the previous owner had filled the runway of 1000 x

150 m for airstrip and the only area required for runway 1000 x 150 m will be filed

and accorded permission to reclaim 1000 x 150 m. According to the impugned EC,

the length of the runway is 2000 m and it is all the more relevant to state that

according to the original project report prepared by the Consultant (KITCO), the 57 proposed length of runway is 3100 m. Going by the documents on record, there is no

certainty on the actual length of the runway and the required area of paddy land to

be reclaimed. But, as per the observations made by the AAI (Annexure A 16) it is

recommended for displacing the threshold of runway by 285 m in view of the

obstacle reported due to the existence of temple mast. As such, the 1st respondent

ought not to have given any permission to reclaim paddy land before finalization of

runway orientation and ascertaining its actual length. The issuance of clearance to fill

the paddy land at 1000 m and therefore, issuance of piecemeal EC without taking

the proposed project as a whole or considering cumulative effect of the project are

illegal. 54. Majority of the Members of the Kerala Legislative Assembly and Assembly

Committee for Environment pointed out that the proposed airport project that is going

to be established in the paddy land to be reclaimed would cause severe

environmental degradation. But, none of the aspects pointed out therein were

considered in its proper perspective by the 1st respondent/MoEF while issuing the

impugned EC. 55. The issuance of SRO No. 185/2011 dated 24.02.2011 referred to in

paragraph 7(i) of the EC itself is illegal as the EC is not preceded by the EC as

required in paragraph 7(c) of the Schedule to the EIA Notification dated 14.09.2006.

Moreover, no specific permission is granted to reclaim any paddy land by any of the

competent authorities and the reclamation already made by the 4 th respondent is

illegal. Even assuming that the SRO No. 185/2011 dated 24.0.2011 whereby certain

areas are declared as industrial area is valid, still permission under Kerala

Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act, 2008 is required for filling up any 58 paddy land. In the instant case, no such permission is given to 3 rd respondent for

filling up paddy land. On this count also, the EC given for filling up the paddy land is

illegal and unsustainable. 56. The public hearing that preceded the grant of EC was not conducted in

accordance with law. As per the minutes with covering letter dated 13.05.2011

(Annexure A7), initially the public notice of hearing was published in the newspapers

on 06.02.2011 after scheduling the date of hearing as 10.03.2011. Later, it was

postponed to 29.04.2011 and was ultimately held on 10.05.2011. No notice was

issued for the public hearing as required in paragraph 3 of the Appendix IV of EIA

Notification, 2006 for the public hearing held on 10.05.2011. Since no proper notice

was given, the participation of project affected people in the public hearing was very

low and the entire proceedings were concluded within 120 minutes. The appellant

was denied the opportunity to participate in the public hearing for want of proper

information/notice while hundreds of people participated in the public hearing

conducted by the Kerala State Legislative Assembly Committee on Environment. 57. From the reading of the application made by the 3 rd respondent seeking

EC in Form I dated 28.06.2010 (Annexure A4) and the copy of the ToR finalized by

the EAC on 13.10.2010 (Annexure A5) with regard to the proposed airport project of

the 3rd respondent, there was complete suppression of the fact of the establishment

of the proposed airport project required filling of paddy land. The report of the Salim

Ali Foundation (Annexure A2), report of the Kerala State Legislative Assembly

Committee on Environment regarding Aranmula Greenfield International Airport

(Annexure A17) and the letter dated 13.07.2013 submitted by the 72 Members of the

Kerala State Legislative Assembly to the Hon'ble Prime Minister of India would show 59 that the issue of paddy land reclamation is very vital to the aspects relating to the EC

and is the root cause of public opposition to the project. In the circumstances, the 1 st

respondent/MoEF ought to have ascertained the ground situation by obtaining a

proper local inspection report before according any clearance which would have

revealed the significance of Aranmula paddy land and the hollowness of the claim by

the 3rd respondent. 58. By the letter dated 26.06.2012 of the State of Kerala/2 nd respondent

addressed to the 1st respondent/MoEF, it has been categorically informed that the

portion of land which was paddy land and has been filled, which can have

environmental impact. No clearance has been taken for filling up paddy land.

According the Kerala State Paddy and Wetland (Conservation) Act, 2008, prior

sanction of the Committee authorized for filling such areas is required. But, this

crucial aspect was not even probed by the EAC or by the 1 st respondent/MoEF. The

EIA report was not prepared in accordance with "Environmental Impact Assessment

Manual for Airports (Annexure A19) and the EIA Report for the construction of new

airport at Aranmula prepared by the 5th respondent/Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd.,

(Annexure A20) are factually misleading. 59. As per the Office Memorandum of the 1st respondent/MoEF bearing No. F.

No.J-11013/77/2004-IA II (I) dated 30th September 2011 (Annexure A 24), the

application for accreditation submitted by the 5 th respondent/Enviro Care India Pvt.

Ltd., was rejected by the Quality Council of India. But, however, as per Office

Memorandum of the 1st respondent/MoEF bearing F.No.J-11013/77/2004-IA II(I)

dated 30.06.2011(Annexure 23), the Consultants whose application for accreditation

was pending were permitted to submit report/certify documents to appear only upto 60 September 2011. As such, the EAC went wrong in considering the EIA report

prepared by the 5th respondent/Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd., in September 2011,

December 2011 and in August 2012 as per the extract of the minutes of the 105 th,

107th and 115th meetings of EAC (Annexure A8-A9), respectively and the EAC ought

to have rejected the application made by the 3rd respondent seeking EC in Form I

dated 28.06.2010 (Annexure A4) and the EIA report for the construction of new

airport at Aranmula prepared by the 5th respondent/Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd.,

(Annexure A20) as the application of the 5th respondent/Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd.,

seeking accreditation was rejected by the Quality Council of India at the time when

they considered the EIA report. Hence, the 1st respondent/MoEF was completely

wrong in issuing the EC based on the EIA report prepared by an incompetent

agency. 60. The validity of the EIA report prepared by a Consultant is subject to and is

dependent on its accreditation/recognition by the Quality Council India. Pursuant to

the Office Memorandum of the 1st respondent/MoEF bearing No. F. J-

11013/77/2004-IA II (I) dated 02.12.2009 (Annexure 21) and subsequent office

memorandums, applications seeking accreditation of Quality Control of India were

submitted in early 2010. In view of elaborate procedure for processing the

applications, the application submitted by the 5 th respondent/Enviro Care India Pvt.

Ltd., was processed only between June-September 2011 and this would not mean

that EIA report prepared by the 5th respondent/Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd., is valid

irrespective of accreditation. If the 5th respondent/Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd., is

incompetent to submit a report after September 2011, then it is only to be found that

they were incompetent throughout. In complete violation of Chapter 12 of

Environmental Impact Assessment Manual for Airports (Annexure A19) and 61 Appendix III of the EIA Notification, 2006, the 5 th respondent/Enviro Care India Pvt.

Ltd., refused to disclose the names of the consultants with their brief resume in the

copy of the summary of EIA report circulated by the 3 rd respondent/K.G.S. Aranmula

Airport Ltd., (Annexure A6) as well as the Environmental Impact Assessment Report

for the construction of new airport at Aranmula prepared by the 5th respondent/Enviro

Care India Pvt. Ltd., (Annexure A20) and the persons who prepared the EIA report in

respect of the airport project in question were not experts in the relevant sector.

Even in 2013 as is evident from minutes of the 94th Accreditation Committee Meeting

of the Quality Council of India, dated 8th January 2013 (Annexure A25), the 5th

respondent/Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd., is neither competent to prepare an EIA report

for Category A projects nor having any experts in its roll to conduct study in the

airport sector and on this count of incompetency/want of expertise of persons who

prepared the report also, the same is liable to be set aside. 61. No final report as required under the relevant law was prepared by the 3rd

and 5th respondents (M/s. K.G. S. Aranmula Airport Ltd., and Enviro Care India Pvt.

Ltd., respectively). In view of total absence of details of paddy land for reclamation

for the proposed airport project, the 1st respondent/MoEF ought to have ordered to

conduct a final EIA study with special reference to the paddy land reclamation and

other allied aspects. The 1st respondent/MoEF has therefore went wrong in clearing

the project without a final EIA report that covers all relevant environmental aspects. 62. As is evident from the reply made by the representative of the 3 rd

respondent/K. G. S. Aranmula Airport Ltd., (referred to in Annexure A7 'Notes of

Public Hearing') they already committed to undertake a comprehensive

environmental impact assessment study in continuation of EIA report for the 62 construction of new airport at Aranmula prepared by the 5th respondent/Enviro Care

India Pvt. Ltd., (Annexure A20). The 3rd respondent/K.G.S. Aranmula Airport Ltd.,).

The 1st respondent/MoEF was wrong in issuing the impugned EC without obtaining

the final EIA report. The terms of reference are insufficient and inadequate. The

same went wrong in identifying the significance of puncha land where the proposed

project was sought to be established. Similarly, the significance of environmental and

biological etc., of the area were not even adverted to. The same is vitiated by

complete non application of mind. 63. Hence, the appellant herein seeks the intervention the Tribunal: seeking EC in Form I dated 28.06.2010 (Annexure A4) and the copy

 of the Terms of Reference finalized by the EAC on 13.10.2010

 (Annexure A5); and the Environmental Impact Assessment Report

 for the construction of new airport at Aranmula prepared by the 5 th

 respondent/Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd., (Annexure A20); iii) To direct the respondents to conduct the public hearing for the

 proposed Aranmula Airport Project in accordance with law after

 finalizing fresh terms of reference. 64. The 1st respondent, namely the MoEF, per contra, stated in the reply

affidavit and which can be treated as reply to the other appeals also, as follows: 63 65. According to Form I and EIA report submitted by the project proponent,

the site is situate almost 2 km from Pampa River. There is a small rivulet namely

Kozhithodu passing through the project site which starts from uphill areas and joins

the Pampa River. Due to poor maintenance over the years, it is blocked at various

points creating small water bodies in different parts of the project site. The proponent

informed that there is no wetland and due to blockage of the rivulet water logging

occurs and forms a few shallow water bodies in the project area. The Minor Irrigation

Department of Kerala was entrusted to study and streamline the flow of rivulet and

the department has studied and has suggested measures to maintain the rivulet.

Conditions have been stipulated in the clearance to implement the measures

suggested by the Minor Irrigation Department in letter and spirit. Based on the

complaints against the inclusion of wetland and paddy fields in the project and public

objections for conversion, a factual report was sought from the Environment

Department of Government of Kerala and the project proponent. In the reply dated

01.03.2012, the proponent has stated that the Government has notified 500 acres of

land for development of the airport. There is no paddy cultivation for the past ten

years. Further, according to the letter dated 26.06.2012 of the State Government,

500 acres of land was declared as an industrial area vides notification in SRO. No.

185/2011 dated 24.02.2011. 66. The Government of Kerala, in its letter dated 01.06.2013, has stated that

some factual mistakes in the report of Salim Ali Foundation are worth noting and the

report says that there are extensive wetlands in the village. However, there is no

identified wetland in Aranmula village as per the report of the Centre for Earth

Science Studies which prepared the list of wetlands in Kerala. As per the definition of 64 the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetlands Act, 2008, paddy land is not

wetland and the provisions of the Central Wetland Act are also similar. 67. The averment that the EIA study has not covered flora and fauna is

denied. The 1st respondent/MoEF states that the same is covered under Chapter-III

of EIA report. The location of the site with respect to Vembanad Kol, Ramsar site

and Silent Valley were sought and the Proponent has informed that the site is not

located in the upstream of Vembanad and neither silent valley nor ecological

diversity areas are located anywhere near the site. The proponent had informed that

only minimum area required for runway, apron, taxiway etc., would be filled and the

remaining area would be preserved in its natural form. The previous owner had filled

the runway of 1000 x 150 m for airstrip and hence only the area required for runway

1000 x 150 m would be filled with 1 m height and the soil required for land filling

would be met from elevated area of about 14.5 acres available within the site itself.

When a contour map was called for confirming the availability of source for soil within

the site, as per the contour map submitted, the level of elevated area varies from 3 m

to 11.5 m with average height of 3.5 m. The soil available in 14.5 acres is 205375 m 3

as against the 1,50,000 m3 . Further, the EAC has suggested the following condition

in the above EC: 68. Denying the allegation with regard to the rehabilitation and resettlement,

the 1st respondent/MoEF would state that as per letter dated 26.06.2012 of the State

Government; the project proponent has stated that seven houses in the proposed

area may require rehabilitation, which they have already purchased. The approach

road is proposed from Aikkara junction to the terminal building of KGS Aranmula

Airport for which the land is to be acquired. Similarly, the road from Parumoottupadi

junction to Aikkara junction is also to be widened for smooth vehicular traffic to the

proposed airport. 69. The ministry brought the accreditation for the consultants to ensure the

quality of EIA report and Environment Management Plans (EMP). According to Office

Memorandum dated 30.12.2010, 265 consultants including M/s. Enviro Care India

Pvt. Ltd., were permitted to certify various documents as consultants such as

EIA/EMP and appear before the State Level Expert Appraisal Committee/ State

Environment Impact Assessment Authority for Category- B projects and the EAC for

Category-A projects till 30.06.2011. The ToR for the project was accorded on

13.10.2010. Public hearing was conducted on 10.05.2011 and the proponent has

submitted the final EIA on 26.06.2011 after incorporating the issues raised during the

public hearing within 30.06.2011. 70. The project was considered by the EAC in its meeting held from 21 st-23rd

September, 2010 and the ToR was finalised including the conduct of public hearing.

The ToR for the project was accorded on 13.10.2010. Public hearing was held on

10.05.2011 at Pathanamthitta District Collectorate. Major issues raised during the 66 public hearing were regarding filling up of paddy fields, restoration of Kozhithodu, the

tributary of Pampa River etc. The project proponent has committed that minimum

area required for runway, apron, taxiway etc., will be filled and the remaining area will

be preserved in its natural form while Kozhithodu will be maintained in consultation

with the Minor Irrigation Department of the State of Kerala. The proposal along with

the final EIA report and the minutes of the public hearing were examined by the EAC

in its meeting held on 21st-23rd September, 2011. After deliberation, the EAC sought

additional information viz., Noise level modeling impact analysis especially on traffic,

waste water treatment and disposal, energy conservation risk management, EMP

etc. The details submitted by the project proponent were examined by the EAC in the

meeting held on 15th -16th December, 2011 and the EAC recommended the proposal

for grant of EC subject to certain environmental safeguards. While processing the

proposal for EC, news items alleging inclusion of wetlands and conversion of paddy

fields in the project area had come to the notice and a report in this regard was

sought from the State Government and the project proponent. The project proponent

submitted reply in letter dated 01.03.2012 according to which the Government has

notified 500 acres of land for development of airport and there is no paddy cultivation

in the area for the past ten years. However, the project proponent was asked to

submit the details of wetlands/water bodies or land having the characteristics of

wetlands at or in the vicinity of project site along with their conservation plan and the

project required soil filling which was not properly addressed in the EIA report to

submit supplementary information reading the details of area requiring filling, source

of filling material, it's likely impacts of environment and drainage system, the project

proponent submitted the details and the proposal was again referred to the EAC to

examine the details submitted by the project proponent. The EAC in the meeting held 67 on 16th -17th August, 2012 after deliberations stipulated conditions. As regards the

commencement of land filling work even before the grant of EC as alleged in the

news reports, there were no developmental works at that site by then. However, the

original owner of the site had carried out minor developmental works. 71. All issues have been considered by EAC and MoEF and there have been

representations, news items, joint petitions from MLAs and a report from the Salim

Ali Foundation against the project. Major allegations are inclusion of wetlands and

conversion of paddy fields, filling up of wetlands and paddy fields that will disturb the

ecosystems and environmental balance of the area, the project proponent facing

criminal and vigilance cases, violation of Central and State Acts like Kerala Land

Reforms Act, 1963 ( in regard to the land ceiling provision), Kerala Conservation of

Paddy Land and Wetland Act, 2008 , findings of the Legislative Committee,

commencement of the land filling work at the site prior to EC, non-obtaining of no

objection certificate from the Defence, competition to existing airports, inadequate

EIA, non-inclusion of source of earth for filling the land, 212 species of plants

including 27 that are endemic and 110 that are economically important have been

recorded in the area and these are said to have been affected. The comments on the

above representations/issues were sought from the project proponent and the State

Government of Kerala. The project proponent replied in the letters dated 20.06.2011,

01.03.2012 and 23.08.2012. The comments were also received from the Principal

Secretary, Environment Department, Government of Kerala vide letters dated

26.06.2012, 01.06.2013, and 21.08.2013 and from the Additional Chief Secretary,

Environment Department, Government of Kerala vide letter dated 13.09.2013. The

following issues are noted from the letter of the project proponent: 68 (i) There are no developmental works at this site by them. However, the original owner of the site had carried out minor

developmental works. The semi-developed site was purchased from

Mt. Zion Educational Trust. (ii) Ministry of Defence has granted NOC vide letter No.

19(79)/11(DN-11Ops) (669) dated 24.08.2011. (iii) There is a small rivulet Kozhithodu passing through the project

site. This rivulet collects water from uphill areas and joins with

Pampa River. Due to poor maintenance over the years, it is blocked

at various points causing small water bodies in different parts of the

project site. The Minor Irrigation Department of the Kerala was

entrusted with the study to streamline the flow of rivulet and the

Department has studied and suggested measures to maintain the

rivulet. It is noted from the report of the Minor Irrigation Department

of Kerala that after due alterations that are suggested and carried out

in the Kozhithodu, the water logging in the upstream paddy fields will

not occur. (iv) Only minimum area required for the runway, apron, taxiway

etc., would be filled and the remaining area will be preserved in its

natural form. The previous owner had filled the runway of 1000 x 150

m for airstrip. Therefore, only the area required for runway 1000 x

150 m will be filled to a height of one meter and the soil required for

land filling will be met from the elevated area of 14.5 acres available

within the site itself. When a contour map was called for confirming

the availability of source for soil within the site, as per the contour 69 map submitted, the level of elevated area varies from 3 m to 11.5 m

 with average height of 3.5 m. The soil available in 14.5 acres is

 205375 m3 as against the 1,50,000 m3 (v) Aranmula is declared by the UNDP as a 'heritage village' due to

 Uthirattadhi Boat Race and Aranmula mirror which are unique to this

 village and not based on environmental or physical features. This

 airport once commissioned will showcase these unique cultural

 aspects globally and will ensure international visibility ensuring tourist

 flow. 72. The following are noted from the letters of the Government of Kerala: The paddy field is left fallow and the natural irrigation facilities have

 been encroached upon or blocked at several places. 70 (ii) No instance or details of the criminal/vigilance cases referred to

have been furnished. Further in the order dated 29.03.2012 in Writ

Petition ( C) No. 3407 of 2012 filed before the Hon'ble High Court of

Kerala by the Project Proponent, it has been directed that the Police

Department shall maintain law and order at the work site, if

disturbance of any nature is caused for any of the works done by the

petitioner. Moreover, the Application No. 38 of 2013 (SZ) filed by

Aranmula Heritage Village Action Council represented by its Patron

Shri Kummanam Rajasekharan, who is also the signatory in the

instant petition was withdrawn and the Tribunal awarded a cost of

Rs. 25,000/- payable by the applicant to the respondent's side. (iii) The Legislative Committee on Environment has not

categorically expressed any reservation against the project as such,

but also on the other hand, it has recommended that the excess land

notified in industrial area except the land under the process of KGS

Group may be denotified urgently and orders issued. (iv) The report of Salim Ali Foundation says that there are extensive

wetlands in the village, but there is no identified wetland in Aranmula

Village as per the report of the Centre for Earth Science Studies

which prepared the wetlands in Kerala. As per the definition of the

Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetlands Act, 2008, paddy land is

not wetland. The provisions of the Central Wetland Act are also

similar. (v) The State Government would like to have modern infrastructure

facilities in the State with least disturbance to environment and as 71 such the State Government is in favour of the project. The objections

 against the vital infrastructure and employment generating

 development projects, which would be a boon to the educated

 unemployed in the State and such employment generating projects in

 a State like Kerala with its teeming educated unemployed cannot but

 be welcomed in the larger public interest and the economic interest

 of the country, of course, subject to all environmental protection

 measures as per law. The State Government has decided to take

 10% equity in this project vide G.O. (Ms).No. 4/2013/Trans dated

 16.01.2013. 73. As regards the allegation by the Salim Ali Foundation that the EIA report is

inadequate, did not recognize the fertile, wetlands on the flood plains of River Pampa

and presence of endemic and economically important species in the area, non-

inclusion of source for filling the land, the EAC has suggested ToRs and the EIA has

been prepared as per the ToRs. The EAC has sought additional information on noise

level modeling, analysis of impact, traffic management, NOC from Civil Aviation etc.,

before recommending the project. The ministry has also called for additional

information on the details of the area required to be filled, source of material, likely

impact and referred back to EAC. The EAC again in August 2012 examined and

recommended. The EIA study covered the flora and fauna under Chapter III of the

EIA report. 74. The 1st respondent, therefore, concludes that the EAC after due

consideration of the relevant documents submitted by the Project Proponent and

additional clarifications furnished in response to its observations, recommended for 72 the grant of EC to the project and accordingly, the MoEF granted necessary EC for

the project as per the provisions of the EIA Notification, 2006 and its subsequent

amendments subject to strict compliance of the terms and conditions. 75. At the outset the 2nd respondent/Secretary to Government, Environment

Department, Kerala Government took preliminary objection with regard to the

maintainability of the appeal on the grounds of jurisdiction and locus standi and

submits that the above appeal is not maintainable either in law or on the facts and

circumstances of the case. The appellant has no locus standi to file the above

appeal and the tribunal has no jurisdiction to decide the same in an application filed

by the Appellant. 76. The interim order has been passed not in accordance with the procedure

established by law. The appellant herein is a total stranger to the EC proceedings

and does not have any right under the statute to challenge the same. In the present

appeal, the appellant has not revealed complete facts, suppressed material facts and

therefore the appeal itself is liable to be dismissed at the threshold itself. The issue

regarding the construction of Airport at Aranmula by the 4th respondent and the allied

issues are already pending consideration of the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala in

W.P.(C)No.6004/2013 filed by the appellant along with others and also in

W.P.(C)No.8794/2013, W.P.(C)No.14220/2013, W.P.(C)No.15101/2013 as well as

D.B.P No.145/2013 pending before the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala. The grounds

raised and the reliefs sought for in the above Writ Petitions and the present appeal

relates to the same and the identical matter. 77. The EIA is the important management tool for integrating environmental

concerns in development process and for improved decision making. The very EIA

notification issued by MoEF on 14.09.2006 as S.O. 1533 purports to impose certain 73 restrictions and prohibitions on new projects or activities or on the expansion of the

existing projects or activities based on their potential environmental impacts as

indicated in the schedule to the notification, and as per the procedure specified

therein. Environment Impact Assessment Notification of 2006 has categorized the

developmental projects in two categories, i.e., Category A and Category B. The

'Category A' projects are appraised at national level by EAC. The MoEF has

constituted the State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) and

State Level Expert Appraisal Committee (SEAC) to decentralize the environmental

clearance process. These institutions are responsible for appraising certain

categories of projects, termed as 'Category B' projects, which are below a prescribed

threshold level. 'Scoping' is the primary essential element of consideration of the

application for prior EIA clearance by which the EAC determine detailed and

comprehensive Terms of Reference (ToR) addressing all relevant environmental

concerns for preparation of the EIA report in respect of the project for which

environmental clearance is sought. Approved ToR shall be displayed in the website

of the MoEF. Therefore, the State Government has no role in the environmental

clearance regime. 78. The policy understood as declared by MoEF is that the infrastructure

shortages of one country has impeded its investment flow and constrained economic

growth. Therefore, for ensuring sustainability of the growth process, it is imperative

to remove the infrastructure constraints particularly in energy, roads, ports, airports

and urban and rural infrastructure. Thus, projects such as airports are possible and

necessary as sustainable development projects in the economic interest of the

country. In the case of Kerala such development projects compatible to 74 environmental protection are warranted in consideration of the growing

unemployment as well. 79. The Environment Policy of the State (2009) unequivocally declares the

matter of environmental considerations in the development process of the State as

follows: 80. Thus, the environmental fall out, if any, of the airport project at Aranmula

can be minimised or prevented by appropriate interventions by the measures

depicted in EC granted by the MoEF. In the EC itself several measures are

prescribed for mitigation and minimising the probable environmental fallouts. There

are well settled substantive and procedural guidelines for environmental clearance. It

is understood that the application for EC was processed by the 1st respondent as per

the usual procedure for clearance. The EC will not be accorded to development

projects that may result in irredeemable environmental degradation. So also, the 75 developmental activities facilitating employment generation in the State having high

educated unemployed and unlikely to create large scale environmental impacts or

which could be mitigated cannot but be implemented. The MoEF has notified the EIA

Notification 2006, under the Environmental (Protection) Act 1986 encompassing

environmental conservation, sustainable development, generational equity etc. It is

the Expert Advisory Committee constituted as per the provisions of the above

notification recommended to the Ministry as early as on 16.12.2011 that the

application for prior EC for the Aranmula Airport project is eligible for clearance

subject to certain conditions. The recommendation of Expert Advisory Committee

was after consideration of the duly prepared EIA report and following the due

procedure. 81. The EIA study which is a part of the proceedings can be undertaken only

by an accredited agency of the MoEF. It is for the project proponent themselves to

arrange for the EIA study through an accredited agency and to submit the report to

the Ministry. The public hearing and eliciting the response of the general public are

integral parts of the proceedings before the report is submitted for clearance. It was

after strictly adhering to all the statutory requirements that the report was prepared

and decided upon by the statutory agencies. It is the decision of the EAC what

matters. It was 24 months after the EAC report; the decision was taken on

environment clearance to the project. The Ministry took the final decision in further

consultation with the EAC on all aspects including the petitions received and reports

in media against the project. The EAC had as early as on 15/16.12.2011 had taken

the decision based on the EIA study Report, which duly considered the

environmental / ecological aspects as per the ToR. The EIA report is the sine qua

non in EIA clearance procedure. It is understood that the MoEF has taken the 76 decision only on objective, statutory and policy considerations, and not overwhelmed

by any extraneous considerations. The environmental and ecological considerations

to be apprised in such projects are a function of the EAC. This project appraisal was

duly and repeatedly complied with. Thereafter, decision favourable to the project

was taken but with conditions what was intimated much earlier. In the appraisal of

airport projects the EAC is required to consider the required general information at

the outset. All the required environmental and ecological aspects of the project will

be duly appraised by the EAC. The EIA was on the basis of probable impacts

assessed on in situ spatial and temporal considerations and not on what the site was

a few decades back. In the case of this project the EIA report which is the statutory

material on the environmental / ecological status of the location had been considered

by the EAC of MoEF and decision communicated to the Ministry. The MoEF has

accorded final clearance to the project after religiously following the procedure

contemplated. It is worthwhile to extract a portion of the same for reference: 82. As regards the contentions of the appellant based on report of Salim Ali

Foundation, the circumstances under which such a study was commissioned and the

agency to which it is submitted etc., are conspicuously not disclosed in the appeal. It

is not an accredited agency to conduct EIA study for environmental clearance. The

appellant is estopped from producing or relying on the Salim Ali Foundation report in

impugning the EC granted by the MoEF, In so far as his main objection to EC is that

the agency that prepared the EIA is not an accredited one by the Ministry of

Environment & Forests. The Salim Ali Foundation (Annexure A2) report is prepared

only in just 4 days. More importantly, the very report the appellant relies to bring

home and to prove his allegations against the EC is seen to have been prepared

with the active involvement of the appellant himself as is duly acknowledged in the

Salim Ali Foundation Report (at page no. 12 of Annexure. A2). In page No. 5 of

Annexure A 2 also, it is stated that 'the map was prepared by Shri. Sreeranganathan

of Aranmula' (appellant). Annexure A 2 has no evidentiary value and cannot be

relied on Annexure A 2 may be rejected outright as biased. The EC (Annexure A 1)

would reveal that the apprehensions and the allegations are unfounded. Those not

covered by the actual project particulars as given in Annexure A 1 need not be taken

for consideration, for whatever works and activities not categorically cleared at the

site as per EC have not been considered for EC and cannot be implemented. It is

after a detailed study in which environmental and ecological considerations were duly

considered and appraised and that the representations against the project were duly

examined that the MoEF has accorded final EC to the project. The date of receipt of

application for EC was 27.06.2011. It is seen that the EAC had recommended the 78 project for EC on 16.12.2011 itself. Thereafter, the case has again been

recommended on 17.08.2012. It is only after 2 years of the date of receipt for

clearance, i.e., on 18.11.2013 that the final clearance was given by the Ministry. It is

to be pointed out that the environmental and ecological considerations have been

duly taken care of in the EIA in all the matters related to the environmental aspects of

the project, what holds the field is the EC. 83. The project site was a paddy land years ago and now waterlogged. A

portion thereof has been reclaimed during the pre 2008 periods when the Kerala

Paddy land and Wetland Conservation Act, 2008 was not there. The Principal

Agricultural Officer Pathanamthitta has reported that due to the increased seepage

from the Pampa Irrigation Canal there is permanent water logging in the paddy fields

of Aranmula, Kidangannoor and Mezhuveli villages which resulted in a situation

where paddy fields became unfit for cultivation. The biodiversity of the area is typical

of the middle stream of river Pampa. There are no endemic species in Aranmula

puncha (fields). It is due to the environmental degradation of Pampa river and

encroachment of canals and streams that connected the paddy fields which were

spawning grounds of fishes, to the river that the native aquatic biodiversity dwindled.

It is submitted that all the relevant environmental concerns expressed in the EIA

report and the petitions filed against granting clearance have been duly taken care of

and remedies were stipulated in the final Environmental Clearance. The MoEF has

consented the project with 20 specific conditions, ensuring mitigation of the

environmental concerns so far raised, with other 7 conditions on maintenance of the

rivulet, (Kozhithodu), passing through the site. The rivulet portion coming under

runway is directed to be constructed with three spans of 15 m x 3.2 m vent. As for

biodiversity, the condition is as follows: 84. Thus, the project has been environmentally cleared only with stringent

impact minimisation conditions, and makes those justifiable in the context of the

verifiable ground situations. The clearance stipulations take due care of the

environmental and ecological implications if any that may manifest. Whatever

environmental concerns now being raised against the project had been flagged in the

public hearing and duly recorded. Initially there was not much opposition at the local

level and it is subsequent to the public hearing that the opposition to the project was

orchestrated. All the aspects that had to be appraised have been duly considered

and mitigation or remedial actions stipulated in Annexure A1. It may be seen from

Annexure A1 that all the objections and media reports against the project subsequent

to the public hearing on environmental matters had been duly examined by the

Ministry in consultation with the EAC and appropriate impact minimisation measures

suggested to be implemented. 85. The statement that the proposed airport area is 'mainly paddy land and

wetland,' which essentially is the flood plains of river Pampa' is not fully correct and

hence denied. Wetlands cannot be reclaimed, whereas paddy lands may be filled up 80 for public purpose in accordance with the procedure in the 2008 Act. A place cannot

be paddy land and wetland at the same time. Due to the ecological damages

already set in, in river Pampa nearby now there is no regular flooding of the plains as

earlier, as the flood water confines to the river channel itself, and such paddy fields

are unable to function in such situations as flood plains of the river. As regards loss

of ecosystem services, the site is now a degraded land. That the fallow land by its

ecosystem services would sustain a larger section of the people than 'the meager

benefits of a few people for their comforts' is only an unduly speculative and biased

approach. It may be noted that it is the owners of the paddy fields (who apparently

had no benefits out of the land) that sold it by their own for non- agricultural activities. 86. The contention that the airport being set up at Aranmula for which EC is

given is on the banks of river pampa is not fully correct. It is true that the river is near

to the site. The Aranmula Parthasarathy temple referred in the memorandum comes

in between the site and the river . The site has no special significance than any other

similar paddy fields in the surrounding areas left fallow. The further contention that

the project site is a 'pristine environmental area' is not correct. It was a fallow paddy

land now abandoned and waterlogged. It is not a paddy field where paddy cultivation

is going on. Paddy cultivation had been discontinued in the entire area for years due

to various reasons. It is on consideration that it is a project that does not create

irreparable environmental damages that the EAC of the MoEF has recommended the

project with conditions and all necessary conditions incorporated in the EC. The

appellant has no case that the conditions and mitigation measures enumerated in the

EC are ineffective or insufficient to remediate the probable environmental impacts at

the site. 81 87. The Kerala State Biodiversity Board has reported that there are no

endemic species in this area. The Board also has proposed mitigatory measures

which could take care of the probable ecosystem impacts. The repeated reference

to 'wetlands' in the Salim Ali Foundation Report (Annexure A2) report might be with

reference to the rivulet. Wetland does not include paddy land and river. No such

wetlands have been identified here in the wetland map specially prepared for the

purpose of the Wetland Conservation Rules 2010. As per Section 2 (xii) of the

Kerala Conservation of Paddy land and wetlands Act, 2008, 'Paddy land' means all

types of land situated in the State where paddy is cultivated at least once in a year or

suitable for paddy cultivation but uncultivated and left fallow, and includes its allied

constructions like bunds, drainage channels, ponds and canals. It may be the ponds

(Chaal, Thalakkulam etc.,) in the vast paddy fields which are natural or constructed

water storage and drainage structures forming part of the paddy land that is being

mistaken as 'wetlands'. The intangible ecosystem services of wetlands as mentioned

in Annexure A2 report seem wholly irrelevant at the site. The contention that the

project area could fetch fish worth Rs.335 - 440 Crore per year from paddy fields

which would be dry at some spells (if the drainage system functions) and flooded at

other by the river waters are not correct and hence denied. The other statements on

dislocation of families, loss and damage to ancestral heritage, etc are not borne out

by facts and cannot refute a scientifically prepared EIA report following the ToR. 88. The environmental safeguards stipulated by the MoEF in the EC would

enable the proposed project with the least disturbance to the ecology and providing

more tangible social and economic benefits than leaving the land fallow. The airport

projects get EC, on being assessed by experts and decided by the Ministry of

Environment and that the impacts as identified that will not cause grave 82 environmental problems could be mitigated. The comparative benefits are what

matters in such cases. The State Government would like to have modern

infrastructure facilities in the state having appreciable employment generation

opportunities with least disturbance to environment and as such the state

Government has recommended the project. In this context, it is relevant to point out

that the Ministry has already granted EC to the Greenfield Airport at Kannur. The

objection against the vital infrastructure and employment generating development

project which would be a boon the educated unemployed in the state, on arbitrary

environmental considerations is ill-advised and baseless. Such employment

generating projects in a state like Kerala with its teeming educated unemployed

cannot but be welcomed also in the larger public interest and the economic interest

of the country, subject of course to all environmental protection measures as per law.

While recognizing that environmentally disagreeable activities in ecologically pristine

locations shall not be permitted, the environmental fall out of this project, if at all any,

can be duly mitigated, through balanced and nuanced measures, creating an

enabling process to promote the environmentally sound development project that

benefit local livelihoods and economy, than leaving the once fertile paddy lands

fallow and abandoned causing more grave environmental problems. The

comparative gains of the proposed project would favour its establishment for which

the central Government has already consented under the relevant statutes with

necessary conditions. 89. In consonance with the avowed policy of State Government for Care and

Development, State Government is keen to ensure that the development needs of

the State are complimentary to the appurtenant environmental considerations. There

cannot be development ignoring environment and State cannot develop until it grows 83 sustainably incorporating environmental concerns in developmental aspects.

Towards this end, greater scientific rigour has been incorporated into environment

impact assessment of projects. A project environmentally cleared following all the

statutory proceedings and extra examination in further consultation with the EAC of

the MoEF may not be assailed on biased, arbitrary and speculative considerations.

The second respondent is of the stand that the project could be allowed at the site

complying with all the environmental and other conditions stipulated in the EC.

Hence, the 2nd respondent herein prays that the impugned EC may be upheld and to

dismiss appeal. 90. The 6th respondent, namely the Secretary to Government, Environment

Department of the State of Kerala would state in reply to Appeal No. 174 of 2014

(SZ) and adopted in other appeals as well as below: 91. By virtue of Annexure A 1 order, the 18th respondent/MoEF accorded EC

for the Airport project as per the provisions of EIA Notification, 2006. The Appellant

also further seeks for a direction against respondents 17 and 20 to conduct a public

hearing. The appellant also seeks for a direction directing the State Government to

complete the proceedings initiated against 19th respondent, namely K.J. Abraham of

Kozhencherry Village in Pathanamthitta District in the State of Kerala for restoring

the reclaimed paddy land. All the allegations raised in the memorandum of appeal

are denied except to the extent to which they are admitted hereunder. 92. At the outset the 6th respondent/Secretary to Government, Environment

Department, Kerala Government took preliminary objection with regard to the

maintainability of the appeal on the grounds of jurisdiction and locus standi and

submits that the above appeal is not maintainable either in law or on the facts and 84 circumstances of the case. The appellant has no locus standi to file the above

appeal and the tribunal has no jurisdiction to decide the same in an application filed

by the Appellant. The appellant herein is a total stranger to Annexure A 1

proceedings and does not have any right under the statute to challenge the same. In

the present appeal, the appellant has not revealed complete facts, suppressed

material facts and therefore the appeal itself is liable to be dismissed at the threshold

itself. The issue regarding the construction of airport at Aranmula by the 18th

respondent is already pending consideration of the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala in

W.P.(C)No. 8794/2013 and W.P.(C)No. 14220/2013 filed by the appellant herein

before the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala and also in W.P.(C)No. 6004/2013,

W.P.(C)No. 15101/2013 as well as D.B.P No.145/2013 pending before the Hon'ble

High Court of Kerala. The grounds raised and the reliefs sought for in the above Writ

Petitions and the present appeal relates to the same and identical matter. 93. Moreover, the appellant herein has already filed an application in

Application No. 38 of 2013 (SZ) before this Tribunal to stop all construction activities

in Aranmula in which contentions regarding filling up of wetland, proceedings under Land Reforms Act etc were advanced. However, after hearing the State, the

appellant withdrawn the application in which he was directed to pay cost of Rs.

25,000/- to the respondents. The appellant has also filed writ petition Nos.

8794/2013 and 14220/2013 before the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala raising various

contentions including direction against Government of India not to grant EC also the

State Government to resume excess land. It is submitted that appellant is abusing

the process of the Court under the garb of a public spirited person before this

Tribunal which is the creation of a Statute. Primarily, the appellant has no locus

standi to challenge the present order. Secondly, the prayers raised in the appeal 85 cannot be brought under the jurisdiction of this Tribunal as per Section 16 of the

National Green Tribunal Act. 94. The impugned EC has been issued by Government of India after

analyzing the pros and cons of the project. The EIA report, which is in fact the

primary requirement for obtaining EC, had been placed before the Government of

India on 16.12.2011. However, the final clearance was issued by the Ministry only

on 18.11.2013. i.e., only after two years of the date of receipt of EIA that the final

clearance was given by the Ministry. Therefore, the challenge raised against

Annexure A 1 on the grounds like non-application of mind is absolutely false and

hence denied. 95. The EC is self-explanatory. In the opening paragraph itself, it is stated

that the proposal has been appraised as per the prescribed procedure in the light of

the provisions of the EIA Notification, 2006 on the basis of mandatory documents.

As per Annexure A1, the EAC met on 21st to 23rd September 2011, 15th to 16th

December 2011 and 15th to 16th August 2011. It was also explained in Annexure A1

that the project was considered by the EAC in its meeting held on 21st to 23rd

September 2011 and the ToR was finalized including the public hearing. It was also

stated in Annexure A1 that ToR for the project was accorded on 13.10.2010 and

public hearing was conducted on 10.05.2011 at District Collectorate, Pathanamthitta.

It is stated in the EC that major issues in public hearing were about filling up of

paddy field, restoration of Kozhythodu a tributary of Pampa River etc. As per the

EC, the Project Proponent committed the minimum area required for runway, apron,

taxi way etc., and the remaining area will be preserved in its natural form while

Kozhythodu will be maintained in consultation with the Minor Irrigation Department,

Government of Kerala. It was stated in the EC that representations, news items, 86 joint petition from MLAs and also a report from Salim Ali Foundation against the

project were considered and comments on the issues projected in the

representations were sought from the project proponent and Government of Kerala.

Comments were provided promptly by Government of Kerala and the issues raised

in the representations were considered by Government of India before issuing the

EC. The EC was issued only after considering the various objections raised against

the project. Therefore, the primary argument of the appellant that the EC was issued

without considering the various allegations against the project is not correct. 96. The Government of India has issued the EC considering the fact that the

EAC after due consideration of the relevant documents submitted by the project

proponent have recommended for the grant of EC for the project. The EC was

issued subject to the strict compliance of the terms and conditions set forth therein.

Accordingly, the EC depicts in paragraph 10, twenty specific conditions and in

paragraph 11, thirty one general conditions. Among the specific conditions,

Government of India has directed conditions to prevent any degradation to

environment. The specific conditions stipulated as per paragraph 10 of EC are as

follows: (Area required for runway = 1000x150 metres at 1 metre height).

Soil required for filling shall be met from the elevated area within the

site itself and necessary permission for leveling should be taken. 'Legislative Committee on Environment' about de-notification of

excess land except land under the possession of the KGS Group and

appraise the Ministry. (vi) Project proponent shall have a master plan for the

project and other related facilities. Other facilities shall be considered

by the competent authority after a cumulative Environment Impact

Assessment is carried out. (vii) Commitments like Maintenance of Kozhithodu, minimum

filling of site etc. made through public hearing shall be strictly

complied with. (viii) Sewage and other liquid flow generated from the airport

should be treated as per the norms laid down from the Pollution 88 Control Board and recycled. Auto conservation fixtures shall be

provided. (ix) Solid waste generated shall be properly collected,

segregated and disposed as per the provisions of Solid Waste

Management and Handling Rules 2000. variation and hence the timer should be used as sensitive to season

variations and on the basis of actual length of day/night. (xv) All cooling equipments should meet the minimum

efficiency requirements as specified in Energy Conservation Building

Code 2007. (xvi) Terminal building shall incorporate features of local

architecture in and around area as well as special measures to

highlight the Indian antiquity through a museum like corner depicting

the same. 89 (xvii) Land use around the airport complex shall be recollected

 though a plan to control unauthorized development, which may

 create problems in the operation of the airport. (xviii) Necessary permission shall be obtained for flowing of

 ground water from competent authority prior to the construction or

 operation of the project. (xix) Legal action shall be initiated against the project

 proponent if it was found that construction was started without

 obtaining Environmental Clearance. (xx) Project proponent will set up separate environmental

 management cell for effective implementation of the stipulated

 environmental safeguards under the supervision of a senior

 executive. 97. Therefore, the EC was issued after considering the entire objections

raised from various quarters and after incorporating preventive and mitigating

measures to ensure least environmental degradation. 98. As per Section 16 of the National Green Tribunal Act, the Tribunal can

exercise its appellate jurisdiction only in the circumstances enumerated under Sections 16(a) to 16(j) of the Act. The prayers sought by the appellant as prayers b

and c at paragraph 7 of page 32 of the memorandum of appeal cannot be

considered in an appeal filed under Section 16 exercising the appellate jurisdiction of

the Hon'ble National Green Tribunal. As regards prayer (a) sought by the appellant,

such prayer cannot be raised by a person like the appellant as per Section 18 of the

NGT Act, 2010. The appellant has not sustained any injury by virtue of Annexure A1.

No damage has been caused to appellant's property, no death has been resulted 90 from damage if any, appellant is not an agent duly authorized by any owner of such

property or any of the legal representatives of the deceased, appellant is not at all a

person aggrieved. Though the appellant purports to challenge the order granting

environmental clearance, majority of the averments pertains to disputes relating to

the nature of the land, filling of the land, application of Conservation of Paddy Land

and Wet Land Act, 2008 , invocation of Kerala Land Reforms Act , nature of public

hearing etc. None of the grounds raised on the basis of nature of land, application of

various state statutes like Conservation of Paddy Land and Wet Land Act, 2008 ,

application Kerala Land Reforms Act etc cannot be agitated and maintained in the

present appeal since such matters are not covered under the NGT Act, 2010 .

Moreover, all the allegations pertaining to the state statues and nature of land etc.,

are repeatedly alleged and agitated by the appellant before the Hon'ble High Court

of Kerala in W.A. No. 8794/2013 as well as in W.P.(C) No. 14220/2013. 99. As per Bhopal Gas Peedith Mahila Sangathan Vs. Union of India , 2012(8)

SCC 326, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has declared that only those environmental

issues and matters covered under the National Green Tribunal Act , Schedule-1

should be instituted and litigated before the National Green Tribunal. It has been

declared that such approach is necessary to avoid likelihood of conflict of orders

between the High Courts and NGT. However the Hon'ble Supreme Court did not

transfer a case which required administrative supervision connected to Bhopal Gas

tragedy to the NGT in the above case . Therefore, the issues raised in the appeal

need not be considered by this Tribunal since the appellant has already invoked the

Hon'ble High Court of Kerala on the same and similar set of facts regarding

allegation of operation of State statutes. As already pointed out appellant cannot 91 agitate any contentions against the EC since he is not a person aggrieved as per the

Act. 100. The appellant has not raised any grounds against the conditions on

which EC has been given. On the other hand, the allegations raised by the appellant

revolves around factors regarding reclamation of land, application of Kerala Land

Utilization order, finding regarding non existence of any wetland, application of

Conservation of Paddy Land and Wet Land Act, actual extent of land possessed by

the proponent, exemption under the Kerala Land Reforms Act etc. Primarily, in the

matter of grant of EC, the pivotal issue is the report of the EAC. The report of the

committee cannot be assailed on the basis of any authority or organization who are

not competent to comment on ecological matters. It is pertinent to point out that the

EAC has already been apprised of the fact that the project site was in paddy land,

which required reclamation. The aspect that the proposed site is a paddy land is

already intimated to EAC as reflected in EC. Further, the 6 th respondent/Department

of Environment, State of Kerala had corresponded with EAC, the 17 th respondent

i.e., Department of Environment of Forest, Government of India. By the letter dated

26.06.2012, the 6th respondent had categorically informed that it is to be examined

by the Government of India that whether the mitigative measures, if any suggested

would be sufficient. Apart from the above, as regards the alleged depletion of ground

water level due to filling it was reported that there were water recharge methods.

These factors have been duly included in the final environmental clearance issued

and the EC permits reclamation of paddy land with necessary permission to the

extent of 1000 x 150 meter x 1 meter (height) in addition to the land already filled up

and sold by the 19th respondent. Therefore, the Government of India has duly

considered the representations, petitions, comments etc, received for and against 92 the project, and the important environmental concerns were addressed as reflected

in the EC. The appellant has no case that the specific conditions as per paragraph

10 and general conditions as per paragraph 11 thereto are not sufficient or relevant

so as to mitigate the probable environmental degradation. 101. The allegation raised by the appellant that Government of India has

proceeded on the assumption that the proposed site is a dry land is not correct and

hence stoutly denied. The allegation that the word 'wet land' is used opposite to the

word dry land is misconceived. It is submitted that the term 'wet land' is defined

under the (Wet Land Conservation and Management) Rules 2010 as per Rule 2(g).

According to Section 2(g) Wet Land means ......"an area of marsh, fen, peat land or

water; natural or artificial, permanent or temporary, with water that is static or

flowing, fresh brackish or salt, including areas of marine water, the depth of which at

low tide does not exceed 6 metres and includes all inland waters such as lakes,

reservoir, tanks, backwaters, lagoon, creeks, estuaries and manmade wet land and

zone of direct influence on wet lands that is to say the drainage area or catchment

region of the wet lands as determined by the authority, but does not include many

river channels, paddy fields and the coastal wet land covered under the notification

of the Government of India in the Ministry of Environment and Forest, S.O. number

114(E) dated the 19th February 1991 published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary,

Part II, Section 3 , Sub Section (ii) dated the 20th February 1991." 102. The Wet Land Conservation Management Rules has been notified by the

Central Government as per the Gazatte Notification No. GSR 951(F) dated

04.12.2010 to enhance the wetland conservation and management efforts in the

country. These rules have beeen issued in exercise of powers conferred by 93 Environment (Protection) Act 1986. As per Rule 8(2) of the Rules, the State

Government had designated the Department of Environment and Climate Change

as the nodal agency for regulating the use of wetlands in the State as per GO (Rt)

No. 51/11/Envt. Dated 30.05.2011. As per Rule 6(2) of the Wet Land Conservation

Management Rules, the State Government shall prepare within a period of one year

from commencement of rules, a 'brief document' identifying and clarifying the

wetlands within their respective territories in accordance with the crieteria specified

under Rule 3. Rule 3 stipulates those wetlands which shall be regulated under the

rules and their classifications. Therefore, by virtue of notification dated 30.05.2011,

the Department of Environment and Climate Change has prepared an inventory by

incorporating the guidelines such as geographical dealiation of wetlands,

demarcation on the basis of the zone of influence along with proper maps, calculated

the size of the wetland and given an account of preexisting rights and previleges

consistent or not consistent with the ecological health of the wetland. It is worthwhile

to mention that proposed project site for which the EC clarfication has been granted

under the Annexure A1 is not a wetland as per the inventory prepared under the

Wetland Conservation Management Rules, 2010. The project site is only a paddy

land which is now waterlogged and degraded and which was lying as unfit for paddy

cultivation for the past so many years. It is also stated that the EC has been issued

after considering all the relevant facts and circumstances of the environmental

issues and for issuance of EC, no orders and consent of the State Government other

than those required as per the notification dated 14.09.2006 on enviormental

clearence is necessary. It is submitted that the EIA proceedigns are completed and

de novo hearing is not requried. The aspects of public hearing narrated by the

petitoner were already considered for the EC and Governemnt of India has 94 considered not only the report of the enviornmental assessment committee but also

the objection raised from various quarters by sending representaitons, petitons etc.,

to various departments of the Government of India. The EC also reflects

consideration of the same. 103. As per the instructions from the Kerala State Pollution Control Board,

public hearing was fixed for 10.03.2011 by the KSPCB after consulting with the

District Collector of Pathanamthitta. Wide publicity was given on 06.02.2011, in a

national and two regional vernacular dailies, in the manner and within the time

specified in the Notification. More than 30 days' time was given between the date of

publication and the date of hearing and the notice was published in the dailies.

However, due to the declaration on 01.03.2011 about the forthcoming Elections to

the Kerala State Legislative Assembly on 13.04.2011, the date of public hearing was

postponed to 29.04.2011 by the answering respondent after consulting the District

Collector. Wide publicity was again given through the same national and regional

vernacular dailies on 27.03.2011. More than 30 days time was again given between

the date of publication and the date of hearing. The date of public hearing had to be

again postponed to 10.05.2011 due to a hartal call at Pathanamthitta on 29.04.2011.

This postponement was also given wide publicity through the same National and

Regional vernacular dailies. This publication was made on 28.04.2011. 104. The soft copies of the draft EIA report and the Malayalam and English

versions of its executive summary were made available for public scrutiny in the

State Pollution Control Board's website www.keralapcb.org and its hard copies were

made available at the following offices:- 105. The Draft EIA report and the Malayalam and English versions of its

executive summary were made available for public scrutiny at the above places for

more than eighty days from 06.02.2011 to 10.05.2011. Thus, the documents were

made available for more than the mandatory 30 days for the public to furnish their

responses. The Public Hearing as announced was held at 11.00 AM on 10.05.2011

at the Conference Hall of the Pathanamthitta District Collectorate. The venue was

selected considering its proximity to the project site and the facilities available at the

Conference Hall to conduct the hearing. The distance from the project site to the

venue was only 15 km. There were 80 participants in the public hearing and most of

them were from Aranmula and adjoining areas. The hearing was presided over by

the District Collector. The proceedings of the public hearing, representations in

original received before and during the hearing and video recording of the hearing

were forwarded to the MoEF as required under the EIA Notification, 2006. The

proceedings of the public hearing were prominently displayed at the Head Office and

Pathanamthitta District Office of the State Pollution Control Board and action was

also taken to similarly display the Proceedings at the offices listed above. Thus, it is 96 submitted that the allegation that the public hearing was not conducted in

accordance with rules is not correct and hence denied. 106. Hence, the 6th respondent in this appeal, namely the Secretary to

Government, Department of Environment, Government of Kerala states that the EC

has been issued after following the procedure established by law and seeks to

dismiss the appeal. 107. M/s. K.G.S. Aranmula International Airports Ltd., has filed a common

reply affidavit in respect of all the appeals referred to above and the gist of the reply

of this respondent can be stated thus: 108. The State of Kerala is internationally renowned for its lush, green

vegetation, its untouched and pristine forests as well as its ancient temples and

hoary tradition. The state lies along the coastline, to the extreme south west of the

Indian peninsula, flanked by the Arabian Sea on the west and the mountains of the

Western Ghats on the east. The Western Ghats, bordering the eastern boundary of

the state, form an almost continuous mountain wall, and as such, almost the entire

state is characterized by hilly terrain. The backbone of the economy of this densely

populated state has always been tourism, and the emphasis on the same has only

intensified over the recent past. 109. The above unique features of the state have made better transport

facilities fundamental to the sustained growth and development of Kerala. The hilly

terrain of the state means that undulating and winding roads are a feature of road

travel in Kerala, frequently traversing steep and narrow sections of ghat roads. The

roads are also frequently subject to monsoonal storms, and as a result, travelling on 97 these roads takes far longer than similar distances elsewhere and is also far more

dangerous and strenuous for passengers. In the Pathanamthitta District of Kerala

lies the temple of Lord Ayyappa in Sabarimala, which is one of the most important

and 2nd most visited religious centre in the world. The annual pilgrimage to

Sabarimala undertaken by devotees has been estimated as the largest in the world.

Hence, the need and demand for improved connectivity and accessibility to the area

is not merely a state priority, but also assumes national and international

significance. The location of an airport near the town of Sabarimala is therefore, not

only a necessity in the context of the needs of devotees, the spurt to the local

economy and the convenience for every stakeholder. The development of the area

immediately surrounding the Ayyappa temple is impossible as the entire hill and

indeed, the surrounding areas are of immense religious, cultural and historical

significance as well as being densely forested. In fact, a significant extent of the

entire district is covered by forest. As such, there remain very few locations which

can even be considered for the construction of an airport. Moreover, the region is

also home to a large population of emigrant Keralites who have settled in foreign

lands and hence, the need for an international airport in the area is widely felt in the

local as well as nonresident communities. The need for the present project and the

objections that have been raised against the same have to be considered in the

above context. The fundamental principle of environmental law in general is that of

sustainable development. It is submitted that the law of environmental protection

does not insist that man ought not to change the surroundings he lives in to his

advantage. It is only necessary that the same is tempered with and balanced by due

regard to protecting vitally important aspects of the environment. 98 110. In the state of Kerala, which as explained above, is a small but fertile

region, an insistence on an extent of 500 acres of contiguous lands without

vegetation as a precondition for any large development, however necessary, is

unreasonable and impracticable. The project is one of national importance as

evinced by the announcement of approval for the Aranmula Airport Project by His

Excellency, the President of India in his address of the joint session of both the

Houses of Parliament on 21.02.2013. The land for the proposed project has been

carefully selected as one where there is no irreparable damage caused to the

environment. The land required for the project was bought from the land owners

directly by this Respondent by paying the market price without involving any eviction

or compulsory acquisition or displacement of any houses, commercial areas or

places of worship. The proposed international airport will generate direct

employment to 1500 and indirect employment to more than 6000 people. The project

will provide a boost to the State of Kerala in the field of tourism, pilgrimage, trade

and industry and other spheres, thereby bringing sizable sum of revenue to the State

and local Government departments, and shall be advantageous to the numerous

expatriates who are hailing from the Central Travancore. The airport location is close

to multiple tourist destinations such as Kumarakom, the backwaters of Alappuzha

and high ranges. This proposed Airport is only one hour drive from Sabarimala, the

second largest pilgrim centre in India and fourth largest in the world with annual

pilgrims of around 4.5 crore. This airport facility will considerably reduce the traffic

and related pollution during the peak season. The majority of non-resident Indians

(NRI) passengers and non-resident Keralites (NRK) passengers of Trivandrum and

Kochi Airport originate within 50 km radius of this site. 40% of the Kerala air traffic is 99 hailing from the influential zone of the airport. It is expected to serve four districts in

Kerala State namely Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki and Alappuzha. 111. This airport will considerably reduce the road traffic to Kochi and

Thiruvananthapuram. The consequential benefits of the airport will extend to poorer

devotees and pilgrims to Sabarimala as well in as much as the demand for and

traffic in other forms of public transport such as rail and road transport will reduce.

The airports play a vital role in the development of industry and commercial trade as

they offer crucial services for transportation of goods and passengers from one place

to another. They are also essential for domestic and international tourism, where

limitation of time is the key factor. While airports play catalyst to economic

development, the economic developments in turn generate demand for the former.

As a result, the aircraft fleets of airlines are growing at a rapid speed with improved

technology, better speed, time, capacity, etc., to cater to ever-increasing demand.

Thus, continuous improvement of airports needs airport management for planning,

developing and operating efficiently and profitability to meet the present and future

need of air travel; both, domestic and international. It is submitted that the people of

Kerala would like to have modern infrastructure facilities in the State with least

disturbance to environment and as such the State Government, representing the

public interest, is in favour of this project. The objections against the vital

infrastructure and employment generating development projects, which would be a

boon to the educated unemployed in the State, are baseless. Such employment

generating projects in a State like Kerala, with its teeming educated unemployed,

cannot but be welcomed in the larger public interest, and in the economic interest of

the Country as a whole and the respondent is following the guidelines and procedure

for setting up of this Greenfield Airport. There is phenomenal growth in air traffic that 100 has been enabled by liberalized policies of the Government of India. The growth rate

of passenger traffic has steadily increased. This rapid growth in passenger traffic has

put enormous pressure on airport infrastructure causing severe congestion at major

airports. The anticipated investment in airport development during the Eleventh Plan

is over Rs 40,000/- crore, both from public and private sources, including for

Greenfield airports according to Greenfield Airports Policy adopted by the Central

Government. The project is supported by an overwhelming majority of persons living

in and around Aranmula and that only a few persons with vested interests are

opposed to the same. The present appeals under reply are not maintainable either

on law or on facts. The appellants have no locus standi to file the present appeals.

Smt. Sugathakumari, Shri. Sreerenganathan and Shri. Induchoodan have already

approached the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala in WP (C) No. 6004/2012 challenging

the same matter, wherein this Appellant (in Appeal No. 172/2013) is the 2 nd

Petitioner in the said case. In the Relief Portion, the Relief No. 2 Prayer "to declare

9th Respondent (this Respondent herein) or others have no authority to establish a

Green Field Airport at Aranmula in the land covered by the notification declaring the

project area as industrial area and environmental clearance if any, obtained by the

9th Respondent (this Respondent herein) is neither legal nor valid or sufficient

raising almost the same environmental issues raised in this Appeal. The said matter

is an issue pending consideration by the Hon'ble High Court which had arisen

directly and substantially between the parties or their privies. This is a clear abuse of

the process of law. The filing of this case itself is oppressive. These appeals lack

bona fides and are frivolous, vexatious & oppressive and will result in miscarriage of

justice. This Appellant (in Appeal No. 172/2013) is sub silentio regarding the 2nd

Relief sought in WP (C) No. 6004/2012 pending before the Honourable High Court of 101 Kerala. The Proposed Airport as stated by the Appellants is not on the banks of

River Pampa. The said Airport is situated almost 2 Kms from the Pampa River as

can be clearly seen in the EIA Report and will be located at Aranmula, Kidanganoor

and Mallapuzhassery Villages, Kozhencherry Taluk, Pathanamthitta District.

Aranmula was declared by the UNDP as a "Heritage Village" due to Uthirattathi Boat

Race and Aranmula Mirror which are unique of this Village and not based on

environmental or physical features. This Airport project once commenced will

showcase these unique cultural aspects globally and will ensure international

visibility, ensuring tourist flow. This respondent will definitely preserve the rich

heritage of the area and the sanctity of Sree Aranmula Parthasarathy Temple.

Further, it is submitted that the fears of damage to the structure of the temple are

completely unfounded and speculative. These allegations have been made even

though they fall outside the scope of the enquiry of this Hon'ble Tribunal in a

mischievous attempt to prejudice this Hon'ble Tribunal. This Respondent has

purchased the fully developed land where no agricultural operation was being

conducted. The statement to the effect that Mallapuzhassery, Aranmula and

Kidangannur Villages where the airport is to be set up are agricultural villages with

paddy being the crop is incorrect and misleading. The property was purchased by

this respondent as completely reclaimed with no agricultural operation, for the last 3

decades, as is certified by the Agricultural Officer, besides the dry land and Rubber

Plantations. A portion of the water logged land might have been filled about ten

years back by the prior owner. Therefore, any legal action ought to be taken only

against the prior owner and the present respondent cannot be punished for the

same. The appellants were aware of the said situation at that time but were silent

regarding the said conversion at that time and did not raise any objection regarding 102 the said conversion before any authority. The State of Kerala vide GO (MS) No.

30/12/Agri dated 16/02/2012 granted permission for filling up an area of 429.28 ares

(10.62 acres) in the adjoining "Aranmula Punja", declaring the so called wetland as

not cultivatable. This was because the character of the land had been permanently

altered and no agricultural activities were done for several years and permission was

therefore granted for the purpose of starting Cape Engineering College and it is also

learnt that District level Committee has also recommended for filling an area of 10

acres for Aranmula Vasthu Vidya Gurukulam in the same Aranmula Punja. The

Agricultural Officer, Pathanamthitta by its letter dated 29/02/2012 certified that the

said 429.28 ares of land is not cultivatable and without any agricultural activities

whatsoever for the last so many years. The present proposal involves development

of the airport at Mallapuzhassery, Aranmula and Kidanganoor Villages,

Kozhencherry Taluk, Pathanamthitta District, Kerala on a plot area of 500 Acres

which includes certain water logged fallow land, dry land and Rubber Plantations.

After purchasing the land, this respondent had not converted or reclaimed any part of

land in its possession or made any attempt to fill up the land. M/s Enviro Care India

Pvt Ltd is an ISO Certified company approved by the MoEF. At the time of

presentation, there was no QCI implemented accredited Scheme (NABET) and all

the consultants enlisted and approved by the first respondent were eligible for

conducting EIA. The Office Memorandum issued by Government of India, MoEF

clearly provides accreditation of the EIA Consultants and after the review of the

accreditation progress by the QCI/NABET, the competent authority has approved a

list of 265 consultants, wherein said Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd., is arrayed as Sl.No.

73 and they are permitted to appear before State Level Expert Appraisal

Committee/State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEAC/SEIAA) for 103 Category "B" Projects and the EAC for Category "A" Projects till 30th June 2011.

These 265 Consultants will also be permitted to certify various documents, as

consultants, such as EIA/EMP. The MoEF after evaluating the EIA Report submitted

by Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd is completely aware that the said agency is competent

to prepare an EIA report since the said agency already submitted EIA reports for

Chennai, Raipur and Vadodara Airports. Hence the statement to the effect that EIA

has not been prepared by an accredited agency and the EIA submitted by the

present Respondent is inadequate, misleading and is a fraud perpetrated by this

Respondent, is totally false, misleading and is denied in toto. 112. The Kerala State Pollution Control Board conducted public consultation

as provided in Clause 111 stage 3. As provided thereunder a public hearing was

conducted by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board with the District Collector,

Pathanamthitta in Chair. The Kerala State Pollution Control Board issued public

notices in vernacular dailies Malayala Manorama dated 06.02.2011, Mathrubhumi

daily dated 06.02.2011 and Kerala Kaumudi dated 06.02.2011 about the hearing to

be held on 10.03.2011 at Collectorate Conference Hall, Pathanamthitta. The notice

was published in English daily as well. The notice was also published in the website

of the Kerala State Pollution Control Board. On 10.03.2011, the public hearing has

been adjourned and the same has been published in the daily dated 09.03.2011.

Since the General Election to Kerala Legislative Assembly 2011 was declared, public

hearing was adjourned to 29.04.2011 (because a harthal has been declared on that

day by the Left Parties) and again to 10.05.2011 on the basis of the direction of

Election Commission, since the Model Code of Conduct is enforced from the date of

announcement of election schedule by the Election Commission and only on the

basis of the directions given by the Election Commission, Public hearing was 104 conducted on 10.05.2011. For the adjourned hearing also public notices were

published in news papers dated 28.04.2011. The notice of hearing was affixed in all

public places like Village Office, Panchayat Office, Collectorate and so on. The

notices were published at public places by hoardings and banners. The public

hearing was conducted on 10.05.2011 at Conference Hall, Collectorate,

Pathanamthitta with the District Collector in chair. In the meeting, representatives of

the people and public were present. Hence the statement to the effect that the Public

Hearing conducted for the purposes of the Airport in a clandestine undemocratic

manner in violation of the EIA Notification, 2006 is absolutely false and denied in

toto. The appellants were aware of the entire proceedings and did not raise any

objection regarding the non participation in public hearing before any authority or in

the Writ Petition pending before High Court of Kerala in WP (c) No. 6004/2012. The

date of public hearings and its adjourned hearings are clearly notified in news

papers. The Order of the Taluk Land Board declaring 232 acres of land purchased

from the previous owner as excess land has been set aside by the Hon'ble High

Court in CRP (LR) No. 187/2013 on 27.11.2013 and the Hon'ble Court has directed

the Taluk Land Board to hear the matter afresh. Since the appeal is pending before

Government of Kerala to exempt the land required for the airport project under Section 81 (3) of KLR Act, the Hon'ble High Court has directed this respondent not to

construct in 232 acres, which form part of a larger extent, till the decision of TLB is

taken within six months or otherwise terminated. The statement to the effect that we

have not disclosed about the cases pending before the High Court is absolutely false

and denied. The Aranmula Heritage Village Action Council in page No. 10 of their

Appeal have admitted that whatever litigations stated to have been filed against this

Respondent were not pending at the time of submitting the application on 105 28.06.2010. As per the impugned order, only the minimum area is required for filling.

Moreover, all the cases mentioned in the Writ Petitions are not admitted so far and

also no interim order also passed against this Respondent. Moreover in paragraph 5

of the Appeal filed by the Aranmula Heritage Village Action Council, they have also

admitted that only the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala has got jurisdiction to entertain

any issue relating to the State Acts. For the proposed project, the EIA Report was

prepared and ToR finalized on 13th October 2012. The public hearing was held at

District Collectorate, Pathanamthitta on 10th May 2011 and the EAC recommended

the project for clearance on 15.12.2011. This Respondent has also furnished

periodical information called for by the Ministry of Environment & Forests from time

to time and answered all queries raised by the Ministry in this regard. The issues

dealt with are briefly summarized herein under. A. Aranmula, Pathanamthitta District is connected by a good network of State

Highway Roads. These roads have two-line riding surface of minimum 35ft with

adequate space on the sides for future expansion. Following are the four vital

arteries that pass through Aranmula:- B. Good connectivity from Alappuzha, Kottayam and Idukki Districts exists

towards Pathanamthitta District. They further gain importance due to non-resident 106 Malayalies of above four districts, Sabarimala pilgrims during season, Sabarimala

pilgrims proceeding to shrine every month, pilgrims converging at Maramon

Convention every season, tourists (domestic and foreign) and regular traffic. The

Airport will have a proper network of road communication around it. The allegation

that the EIA must also include within its scope roads that may or may not be built in

future by the State or Central Governments, which are completely different entities

and which are governed by different norms and regulations, is clearly unsustainable.

It is submitted that providing roads is a public function which is governed by different

standards and policies and there is no requirement of an EC for such state activities. C. Airport Land is interspersed with a small rivulet 'Kozhithodu' which is

crossing the runway. This rivulet eventually merges with the famous Pampa River. A

cross vent of 20 x 2.5 m underneath the runway is planned to maintain free flow of

water in Kozhithodu. General lay of the land is towards Kozhithodu from South and

North which facilitates free flow of water from both ends of run way towards

Kozhithodu and the proposed drain. D. Energy Conservation methods: E. Land Filling: The MOEF has also called for additional information on the details of the area

required to be filled, source of material, likely impacts and referred back to

the EAC. The EAC, again in August 2012 examined and recommended the

approval of the project. It is noted that the EIA study conducted by Enviro Care

India Pvt., Ltd., covered the methodology of EIA, scope of EIA, study 114 period, air environment, noise environment, water environment, land

environment, eco-system, socio-economic development, project description,

disaster management plan, basic infrastructure required, existing environmental

status, ambient air quality, noise environment, water quality, soil quality, land

environment, biological environment, socio- economic environment, identification

and prediction of impacts, positive environmental impacts, negative environmental

impacts, environmental management plan, environmental impact statement etc.,

by adopting sampling locations, micrometeorology, temperature, rainfall,

relative humidity, wind direction, wind speed, dust fall etc., These were all

dealt with extensively by the report and the attempt of the appellants to contradict

the findings of this extensive study on the basis of flimsy material is clearly

untenable. A habitat or an area comprises of different kinds of Plants and

animals within its boundary. The distribution of flora and fauna in the given

area represents the biological environment. The biological portion of the

environment includes, what is present in the study area, its values,

and its responses to impacts description of community uniqueness, the

dominant species, and an evaluation of rare or endangered species. The

study was conducted by Enviro Care Pvt. Ltd., like the field monitoring

stations were installed in four different locations in 10 km radius area.

The b i o -diversity s t u d i e s w e r e c a r r i e d o u t i n seventeen transacts point

of 10 km radius. Thus, the EIA study covered the flora and fauna under

Chapter-III of the EIA Report. The EAC, after due consideration of the relevant

documents submitted by this respondent and additional clarifications furnished in

response to its observations, have recommended for the grant of EC for the project

as per the provisions of EIA Notification, 2006 and its subsequent amendments, 115 subject to strict compliance of the terms and conditions envisaged in the

impugned order. The impugned order passed by the MOEF is a

speaking order and this respondent declares that it will adhere and follow strictly

the specific conditions laid down in the said order. The said order is not given

overnight, but was granted after a detailed and exhaustive analysis of all the

environmental aspects. The method of assessment of impact including studies

carried out, modeling techniques adopted to assess the impact where pertinent

has been elaborated in the EIA Report. The report details the impact of the

baseline parameters, both during the construction and operational phases and

suggests the mitigation measures to be implemented by this respondent. The report

also covers the planned environmental monitoring program and has provided the

overall justification for implementation of the project and has explained how the

adverse effects will be mitigated. It is submitted that therefore factors such as noise

pollution, which are a natural consequence of any human activity, especially

airports, have been duly considered before granting the impugned E C . All efforts

will be made to mitigate these effects but it is humbly submitted that the principle of

sustainable development governs the decision to permit a project in the public

interest such as the present project and the application of the said principle

by the MoEF in the present case has been most satisfactory. The allegation

that more than 50 items were taken up on the day and that hence, there could be

no application of mind is clearly incorrect in so far as the additional material which

was specifically requested by the MoEF before clearance was granted shows

that the decision was taken over a period of time and that only the formal

approval was finally given on the same day. The decision making process was

carried on over a long period and over elaborate deliberations. The Ministry of 116 Civil Aviation published the Greenfield Airport Policy enabling private

establishments to establish and operate airports in India and accordingly this

respondent had decided to establish an airport at Aranmula, Kozhencherry

Taluk, Pathanamthitta District. By virtue of Clause 2.4 (b) of Greenfield Airport

Policy, a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956 and having its

place of business in India and having the criteria prescribed thereunder is an "Airport

Company" entitled to set up an airport. This respondent satisfies all the

conditions in Clause 2.4 of Greenfield Airport Policy and is an Airport Company

defined thereunder. The appeal for setting up of an a i r p o r t a t Aranmula

under the Greenfield Airport Policy was submitted to the proper authority. The

Airports Authority of India by the letter dated 15.10.2009 recommended the site for

the International Airport. This Respondent then applied to the State of Kerala

for a No Objection Certificate for establishing Airport at Aranmula. This respondent

after cabinet clearance by order dated 08.09.2010 issued No objection

Certificate for establishment of the airport. The respondent State of Kerala

in exercise of powers conferred under Sections 2 and 5 of Kerala Industrial

Single Window Clearance Boards and Industrial Township Development Act,

1999 (Act 5 of 2000) declared the proposed area in which the Airport is to be

established as an Industrial area of the State and constituted a Single Window

Clearance Board for the said area to be known as "Greenfield Airport, Aranmula

Single Window Clearance Board" for the purpose of speedy issue of various

licenses, clearances or certificates required under the various State enactments

and constituted 15 Member Board. The G o v e r n m e n t h a s appointed the

Secretary to Government (Industrial Promotion), Industries Department to be the

Chairman of the Board and the Managing Director, KINFRA as convener. On 117 12/11/2010, Government of Kerala after evaluating the comprehensive

developmental impact which this Airport project will bring to the State of

Kerala were pleased to give direction to the District Collector to initiate every action

to commence the construction of the p roject including the registration of the

land in the name of this Respondent and based on this District Collector has

given direction to the Additional Tahsildar, Kozhencherry for mutating the

property in the company's name. Accordingly this respondent purchased the

land required for the project and mutation was effected in the Company's name,

based on the permission given by the District Collector, Pathanamthitta. The

District Collector also gave direction to the Sub Registrar, Aranmula to effect

registration of properties in the name of this Respondent. 115. The Ministry of Defence, Government of India by its proceedings

dated 24.08.2011 addressed to the MoEF gave NOC for setting up of airport at

Aranmula. Since the proposed airport is within 150 km within the existing airports,

the respondent obtained consent from the MoEF for establishing the Green Field

Airport at Aranmula. It is submitted that if the proposed Airport is beyond 150 km of

an existing Civilian Airport prior approval of the Central Government is not

necessary by virtue of Clause 9.1 of Exhibit R4 (b) Policy. Clause 9.1 of Exhibit

R4 (b) Policy makes it clear that the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is

the competent Authority to give clearance for the setting up of a new Airport

within 150 km from an existing civilian a i rport. Thus, the Exhibit R4 (j) consent

issued by the MoEF satisfies the requirement under Clause 9.3 of Exhibit R 4 (b)

Policy. Kerala Traffic has grown five times in last eight years from two million to 10

million. Kerala economy depends on foreign remittance of Rs 60,000 crores per

year. One out of three Keralite uses Airport facility and out of 3 crore population, 1 118 crore people has travelled by air. Recently, the f irst respondent has given

Environmental Clearance for the Kannur Airport in Kerala, which is situated only

Eighty Five Kilometers from the existing Calicut and Mangalore Airports. This

respondent has purchased the fully developed land where no agricultural

operation was being conducted. The property was purchased by this

Respondent as completely reclaimed with no agricultural operation, for the last 3

decades, as is certified by the Agricultural Officer, besides the dry land and Rubber

Plantations. The State of K e r a l a vide GO (MS) No. 30/12/Agri d a t e d

16/02/2012 granted permission for filling up an area of 429.28 a res (10.62

a cres) in the adjoining "Aranmula Punja", declaring the so called wet

land as not cultivatable. This was because the character of the land had

been permanently altered and no agricultural activities were done for several

years and permission was therefore granted for the purpose of starting Cape

Engineering College and it is also learnt that District level Committee has also

recommended for filling an area of 10 Acres for Aranmula Vasthu Vidya Gurukulam

in the same Aranmula Punja. The Agricultural Officer, Pathanamthitta by its letter

dated 29/02/2012 certified that the said 429.28 Ares of land is not cultivatable

and without any agricultural activities whatsoever for the last so many years.

The statement to the effect that construction of the a irport is in violation of the

provisions of the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wet Land Act, 2008, Kerala

Land Reforms Act, 1963 , Environment Protection Act, 1986 , Land Acquisition Act etc are false and denied in toto. In any event, the present Tribunal is not

concerned with alleged violations of state enactments as they fall beyond the

purview of the Scheduled enactments to the National Green Tribunal Act . This

respondent does not make any representation of facts and it is the 119 appellants which are continuously suppressing material facts and defaming the

image and reputation of this respondent through media and unnecessarily

dragged this respondent into litigation with ulterior motive. This respondent has

purchased the property starting from 27.12.2010 from Kozhencherry

Charitable Educational Society and o thers. In that deed the nature of property

is stated as "dry land". At the time of purchase of the property itself, the nature

of land which was purchased from Kozhencherry Charitable Educational Society

was in a developed state. The major portions of the land are rubber plantations.

After purchasing the land, this respondent had not converted or reclaimed any

part of land in its possession or made any attempt to fill up the land. This

respondent has not done anything whatsoever till this date to fill/reclaim the

purchased land or convert any poramboke thodu or filled any Kozhithodu (rivulet) as

alleged by the appellants. The revenue authorities also confirmed that that this

respondent has not filled any land. The present respondent had purchased

certain lands, which were already converted prior to enactment of Conservation

of Paddy Land and Wet Land Act, 2008 . The Aranmula Grama Panchayat

has passed a resolution dated 22.09.2004 and also issued a letter to the Prior

owner of certain lands supporting conversion of land. The Kozhencherry Charitable

Educational Society owned 232 Acres of land spread over in three villages-

Aranmula, Mallapuzhassery and Kidanganoor Villages in Pathanamthitta District.

This respondent cannot be held liable for the conversion of land by a prior owner

before the enactment of the Act. Hence, the allegation to the effect that this

respondent is continuing the illegal activity of filling paddy and wet lands is

denied in toto. 120 116. This respondent had approached the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala

for granting adequate and sufficient police protection for its employees and workers

in their duties in connection with the establishment of Aranmula airport project. The

Hon'ble High Court vide its order in W.P.( C).No. 3407 of 2012 dated

15.02.2012 has directed the police authorities to give necessary and adequate

protection to proceed with the work, after examining all the documents/sanctions

received from both Central and State Governments and hearing the Advocate

General. In the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble High Court has reiterated that the

very establishment of International Airport at Aranmula is for "public utility".

The Writ Petition filed by this appellant before Hon'ble High Court as

W.P. (C). No.6004/2012 has been tagged together along with W.P. (C).No. No.

3407/2012 and the Hon'ble High Court have again reiterated that sufficient police

protection should be granted for any construction work being done in our property. 117. The present project has received support from all government at

every level as evidenced by the letter of the Government of Kerala dated

26.09.2011 addressed to the Ministry of Civil Aviation expressing its support to

the establishment of the Airport at A ranmula. This respondent who is

implementing the project has purchased the land in a more or less developed

form and we have obtained all clearances as per the Greenfield Airport Policy,

promulgated by the Government of India. Considering the statutory and

constitutional position of the State Committee, this respondent has agreed to carry

out all the recommendations, applicable to this respondent in letter and spirit. This

respondent is committed to do this developmental infrastructure project strictly in

accordance with law, absolute transparency and all out protection to the nature 121 and environment. 118. The Kerala State Pollution Control Board conducted public consultation

as provided in Clause 111 stage 3. The Kerala State Pollution Control Board had

issued the summary of the details of the proposed project and public consultation

including the details of executive summary and EIA Report of the project and

made available for reference in the following offices like District Collector,

Pathanamthitta, District Industries, Kozhencherry, District Panchayat Office,

Pathanamthitta, Elanthoor Block Panchayat Office, Elanthoor, Pathanamthitta,

Aranmula Grama Panchayat Office, Aranmula, Pathanamthitta, Mallapuzhassery

Grama Panchayat Office, Pathanamthitta, Science, Technology & Environment

Department, Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram, District Office, Kerala

State Pollution Control Board, Makkamkunnu, Pathanamthitta and Head Office,

Kerala State Pollution Control Board, Thiruvananthapuram. In the said

notification, it is clearly mentioned that all concerned persons are welcome to

communicate comments on environmental aspects of the project within 30 days

of the date of publication or to participate in Public Consultation. As provided there

under a public hearing was conducted by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board

with the District Collector, Pathanamthitta in the Chair. The Kerala State Pollution

Control Board issued public notices in vernacular dailies Malayala Manorama

dated 0602.2011, Mathrubhumi daily dated 06.02.2011 and Kerala Kaumudi dated

06.02.2011 about the hearing to be held on 10.03.2011 at Collectorate

Conference Hall, Pathanamthitta. The notice was published in English daily as

well. The notice was also published in the website of the Kerala State Pollution

Control Board. The environmental public hearing was scheduled on 10.03.2011. But

due to the announcement of the date for General Election to Kerala Legislative 122 Assembly 2011, the Chief Electoral Officer instructed to defer the public

hearing till the election process was over. In accordance with that, the public

hearing was postponed to 29.4.2011. Since a harthal has been declared on that

day by Left Parties, the Public Hearing has been re-adjourned to 10.05.2011. Since

the General Election to Kerala Legislative Assembly 2011 was declared, public

hearing was adjourned to 29.04.2011 (because of harthal) and again to

10.05.2011 on the basis of the direction of the Election Commission, since the

Model Code of Conduct is enforced from the date of announcement of election

schedule by the Election Commission and only on the basis of the directions

given by the Election Commission, public hearing was conducted on

10.05.2011. The Election Commission is entitled to issue such directions

under Article 324 (1) of the Constitution of India as it thinks fit, for conducting free

and fair elections and for maintaining the purity of election process. Election

Commission is a constitutional authority under Article 324 of the Constitution having

plenary of power and directed to defer till the election process is over. For the

adjourned hearing also public notices were published in newspapers. The

notice of hearing were affixed in all public places and public places like

Village Office, Panchayat Office, Collectorate and so on. The notices were

published at public places by hoardings and banners. The public hearing was

conducted on 10.05.2011 at Conference Hall, Collectorate, Pathanamthitta with

District Collector in the chair. In the meeting representatives of the people and

public were present. This respondent who is implementing the project has

purchased the land in a more or less developed form and we have obtained all

clearances as per the Greenfield Airport Policy, promulgated by the Government

of India. Considering the statutory and constitutional position of the State 123 Committee, this respondent has agreed to carry out all the recommendations,

applicable to this respondent in letter and spirit. This respondent is committed to do

this developmental infrastructure project strictly in accordance with law, absolute

transparency and all out protection to the nature and environment. 119. The entire meeting was video graphed and sent to the MoEF. Amongst

250 people participated in the hearing of whom 80 persons signed in the minutes

book. Moreover, there is no prescribed quorum for the public hearing as

contemplated under the Appendix IV of 6.2 of the procedure for conduct of Public

Hearing. It is submitted that in pursuance of the public hearing held on

10.05.2011 and on the basis of the minutes of the meeting and all relevant records

and the subsequent detailed scrutiny by the EAC recommendations were made to

the MoEF, the first respondent. On the basis on the recommendation made by the

said Board, the EAC, Government of India has recommended the E C for the

airport project. After hearing and perusing documents, video and other

connected records, E A C recommended the project for EC to the first respondent,

MoEF. Thus, the stipulations in Exhibit R 4 (b) have been fully complied with

and also as per Schedule-IV for the Procedure for Public Hearing and since

the Model Code of Conduct is enforced in the State of Kerala by the

Election Commission and only on the basis of their directions only, Public

hearing was conducted on 10.05. 2011. This appellant failed to file any objection

or raise their concerns regarding the said Public Hearing or any environmental

impact, if any to the Kerala State Pollution Control Board within 30 days of the

date of publication of the notice which have been already produced and marked as

Exhibit R 4 (q). The impugned order has been passed by the MoEF after reviewing

the adequacy of the consultation process and examined the procedure followed as 124 per MoEF notification. 120. There will not be any environmental hazard as alleged by the

appellants. M/s Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd., is an ISO certified company approved

by the Airport Authority of India. The said Company conducted detailed impact study

on the establishment of the airport at Aranmula and submitted report. This

respondent made the presentation about the environmental aspects before the

Expert Appraisal Committee of Ministry of Environment and Forests. After

satisfying that the proposed Airport does not have any environmental impact,

recommended to the Government as per Exhibit R 4(O). The procedure adopted is

an elaborate one. There are several stages for obtaining EC. Firstly, we have to

identify an agency approved by Airport Authority of India, who is competent

to study environmental impact assessment and submit an EIA report. M/s Enviro

Care is an ISO Certified Company and approved by Airport Authority of India at that

time. Secondly, the company so engaged will conduct a field study for

one year touching all aspects of nature, climatic conditions, flora and

fauna, water, air, pollution aspects, noise, visibility, rainfall etc. Thirdly, based

on the primary data collected in the year, they will prepare EIA. This will be

submitted to MoEF, the first respondent through Kerala State Pollution Control

Board. The first respondent after examining the EIA report and evaluating our

presentation before them will finalize the ToR. These aspects will be again studied

and report will be submitted to EAC along with t h i s respondent's

presentation. If the report and presentation based on the ToR is approved by EAC,

then they will direct for holding a public hearing at the District Headquarters after

giving wide publicity through print and publishing media including hoardings,

newspaper advertisements etc. During the public hearing, any person of the locality 125 who has any interest whatsoever in the project can come and present his point

of view regarding the project and all such points will be addressed satisfactorily.

Thereafter, the minutes of the meeting prepared by District Collector,

Pathanamthitta, will be read out and was unanimously passed by the Public so

assembled. This minute along with the video recording of the proceedings will

be forwarded to MoEF, the first respondent, by the Kerala State Pollution Control

Board to EAC. The EAC after scrutiny of the minutes and attending the

presentation by us, if satisfied will recommend the project for clearance to the

MoEF. The present respondent has undertaken the whole process satisfactorily

and successfully. The impugned order has been passed by the MoEF after

reviewing the adequacy of the consultation process and examined the procedure

followed as per MoEF notification. 121. The statement to the effect that evacuations of families will take

place as a result of the project are totally baseless, false and far from truth.

Not a single person was evicted so far and this is a deliberate false propaganda to

create fear psychosis among the local people and to provoke them to agitate

against this project, which will definitely bring sustainable development to the

State of Kerala. The statement to the effect that there are more than 1000

families residing in the said region is absolutely false and denied in toto. The major

portions of the land are rubber plantations and fallow lands. The averments that

there are about 700 houses in the proposed airport land are false and hence

denied. There will not be any eviction, acquisition or displacement of any houses.

As directed by the Government, this respondent has negotiated with land owners

and land has been purchased in conformity with the prevailing market value in the

locality. The Google Map produced pertains to the entire locality consisting of 126 more than 3000 Acres. The proposed airport area is limited to 500 Acres. Hence,

the question regarding evacuation of people historically, culturally and

economically connected with the region does not arise and there is no

violation of the right to life as guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of

India. The Government of Kerala after evaluating the project in toto including

connectivity, infrastructure development, employment potential and comprehensive

development to the State were pleased to take 10% equity in the project and

also ordered that Government puramboke land essential for the operations of the

airport shall be given to the Company after levying market price vide G.O (Ms) No.

04/2013/Trans dated 16/01/2013. In fact, the local people are in favour of this

airport. The Governments have given permission to proceed with this airport

project and is a continuing policy of both the Governments. Persons

having vested interest are raising objections. Already employment for several

persons has been given by the Company. Several skilled and unskilled workers

are working for the Company for the purpose of establishing this Airport. The

impugned EC has been issued by the 1st respondent only after a proper study of the

extensive EIA submitted by this respondent. The allegations that the EIA Report

is invalid as M/s Enviro Care Pvt. Ltd., is not a qualified agency is clearly

untenable. True Copies of the Office Memorandum issued by Government of

India, Ministry of Environment and Forest dated 28.06.2010 and dated

31.12.2010 regarding accreditation of EIA consultants is produced. The

allegations regarding the basic information submitted by this respondent

are absolutely false and denied. At the time of giving basic information on

28.06.2010, what all are stated in the information are true and correct. As

already stated, the present respondent has purchased the land in a developed state 127 and most of the lands are lying as water logged fallow land, dry land and Rubber

Plantations. The previous owner Kozhencherry Charitable Educational

Society owned 232 acres of land spread over in three villages- Aranmula,

Mallapuzhassery and Kidanganoor Villages in Pathanamthitta District. As per the

Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010, List of Wetlands in India

Identified as Ramsar Sites under Ramsar Convention on Wet Land, wherein no

portion of the airport project has been identified as "Wet Land" in the appended

Schedule. Moreover, there is no protected Wetland in the Project area as per the

said rules. It is true that there is no pending litigation against this respondent at

the time of submission of information in Form I of the appeal. Hence, the

statement to the effect that this respondent had made false statement

regarding the pending litigation against the Project at the time of submission of

the appeal is absolutely false. There is no local land use plan. Moreover, there is

no zonal classification in the airport area and hence the land will be used only for

the airport purpose with strict adherence to the conditions stipulated in the

impugned order. There is no need for any demolition as there is no structure in the

project area. There is no need for any further reclamation as the project

area has been purchased in a developed state. There is no need for any

reclamation work in this p r o j e c t . Most of the project site is in a developed

form/rubber plantation and dry land. The purpose regarding the sensitive man-

made land uses (like hospitals etc) are to be interpreted as items directly or

indirectly affecting the operation of the airport. It is necessary to identify the

presence of such obstructive structures, for which the present respondent has

separately conducted Obstruction Study before embarking on the project, after the

submission of the basic information. This will complement the appeal. The aerial 128 distance is for the purpose to identify any man- made structures like hospital that

would interfere the operation of the Airport. This study was conducted by a

comprehensive and mandatory obstruction study by M/s. Aero Survey, G-11,

Second Floor, Green Park Extension, and New Delhi, who is a recognized agency

for conducting Obstacle Study for Airport Project by Civil Aviation, Airport

Authority and DGCA. There is no protected monument within the area which will be

affected by the proposed project. Hence, there was no misrepresentation

by the respondent. Kaviyoor temple, Aranmula temple and other monuments

are not affected by the temple and are not monuments officially protected by the

Archeological Survey of India. 122. Challenging the very same grounds raised by the appellants, an

appeal was filed by Aranmula Heritage Action Council represented by its Patron Sri

Kummanam Rajasekharan, who has also challenged the same before the First

Respondent, as Appeal No. 38/2013 before this Tribunal has been withdrawn and

this Tribunal awarded a cost of Rs 25000/- payable to the respondent's side.

Further, the Kerala State Legislative Committee on Environment has not expressed

any reservation against the project as such but on the other hand, it has

recommended that the excess land notified as Industrial Area, except the

land under the possession of this respondent is to be de-notified and orders issued.

The Committee consisting of 8 Members of the Legislative Assembly under the

chairmanship of Shri C.P. Mohammed examined the allegations and submitted their

report on 12.06.2012. The main findings and recommendations of the

Committee have been answered by this respondent to the MoEF, the first

respondent which is as follows:- 129 123. A. The project should be implemented after considering the Topography

environmental study and discussion with the concerned departments:- 124. The Pollution Control Board has recommended this Project after

observing all the formalities and after examining the EIA Report prepared by

the Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd., Madurai. The public response recorded during

the public hearing, after visit to the site and perusal of all the connected records. 125. All these suggestions have been taken on board by the present

respondent and that the proposed project will be constructed strictly in

accordance with the provided by the MoEF and the terms thereof. The project

area has been declared as "Industrial Area" by the Government of Kerala under due

process of Law thereby stipulating all formalities. The appeal period for

challenging the notification is 30 days and nobody till date has challenged the

said notification within the stipulated period. The statement to the effect that the

MOEF had granted the impugned order without application of mind is vague and

totally false and frivolous. There is no acquisition of land as alleged

by the Appellants. 126. The suggestion that the proposed runway cannot possibly be

constructed in the proposed site is plainly absurd which is based upon an early

map of a much smaller extent of land. The proposed project is within a 500 acre

area and the same can easily accommodate a 2800 m runway and the detailed

plans of the proposed project clearly demonstrate the same. 127. The present respondent has not violated the EIA Notification, 2006 as

alleged. The airport has been proposed in an area of 500 acres, of which this 133 Respondent had purchased more than 350 acres as preliminary step.

Simultaneously, this respondent have to work out the orientation of the runway, lay

out for the taxiway, apron, fire and rescue facility etc which are primary aspects

associated with the implementation work. The preliminary work includes feasibility

study, financial viability, hydro graphic study, land survey, budgetary allocation

and identification of suitable site etc. The impugned order passed by the MOEF

is a speaking order and has been passed after considering all relevant

environmental factors, and after due consideration of the relevant

documents submitted by this respondent and additional clarifications

furnished in response to its observations. The EIA has only thereafter

recommended the grant of Environmental Clearance for the p roject as per the

provisions of EIA Notification, 2006 and its subsequent amendments, subject to

strict compliance of the terms and conditions as envisaged in the impugned

order. The present respondent hereby undertakes that it will comply with the

specific conditions envisaged in the impugned order in letter and spirit. 128. On the above grounds, the respondent namely M/s. K.G.S. Aranmula

Airport Projects Pvt. Ltd., seeks to dismiss the appeals. 129. M/s. Enviro Care India Pvt. Ltd., the 5th respondent in Appeal No. 19 of

2014 (SZ) in reply would state as follows: 130. The EIA study conducted by this respondent for the airport project

covered recognized and accepted methodology of EIA, scope of EIA, study period,

study period, air environment, noise environment, water environment, land

environment, eco-system, socio-economic development, project description,

disaster management plan, basic infrastructure required, existing environmental

status, ambient air quality, noise environment, water quality, soil quality, land

environment, biological environment, socio- economic environment, identification

and prediction of impacts, positive environmental impacts, negative environmental

impacts, environmental impact assessment, environmental management plan,

environmental impact statement etc by adopting sampling locations,

micrometeorology, temperature, rainfall, relative humidity, wind direction, wind

speed, dust fall etc., This respondent has already EIA reports for Chennai, Raipur

and Vadodara airports and it was based on these reports the said projects were

successfully completed. 131. At the time of submission of the report and presentation, there was no

QCI implemented accredited scheme (NABET). As per the provisions of law and

other regulations governing the conduct of environmental study and consequent

submission of the EIA report, all consultants enlisted and approved by the MoEF are

eligible for conducting EIA and this respondent is also an enlisted and approved by 135 the MoEF. The Office Memorandum issued by the MoEF clearly provided

accreditation of the EIA consultants listed therein and after the accreditation process

by the QCI/NABET, the competent authority has approved a list of 265 consultants

wherein this respondent is arrayed as serial No. 73. These 265 consultants are also

permitted to certify various documents such as EIA/EMP in their capacity as

recognized and accredited consultants. 132. This respondent has conducted a detailed impact study regarding the

establishment of an airport at Aranmula and submitted a detailed report to the

authorities. The said report is submitted based on the ToR approved by EAC. This

respondent had also attended the public hearing held at the conference hall of the

District Collector, Pathanamthitta. This respondent had done a field study from July

2010 to October 2010 for collection of base line data. After submission of the

application on 02.07.2010 by the Company, this respondent had started the study

from July itself for one season (three months) which is also included in the ToR.

This respondent had conducted field studies touching all the aspects of nature,

climatic conditions, flora and fauna, water and air pollution aspects, noise, visibility

rainfall etc., The EIA study was conducted covering prescribed methodology of EIA

and etc., as aforesaid and adhered to the ToR prescribed by the EAC. A habitat or

an area comprises of different kinds of plants and animals within its boundary. The

distribution of flora and fauna in the given area represents the biological

environment. The biological part of the environment includes, what is present in the

study area, its values, and its responses to impact description of community

uniqueness, the dominant species and an evaluation of rare or endangered species.

During the course of the study conducted by this respondent, field monitoring

stations were installed in four locations in 10 km radius area. The bio diversity 136 studies were carried out in seventeen transacts points of 10 km radius and the EIA

study carried by the respondent covered the flora and fauna under Chapter-III of the

EIA report. The EAC consists of experts in disciplines such as eco system

management, air/water pollution control, water resources management, flora and

fauna conservation and management, land use planning, social

sciences/rehabilitation, project appraisal, ecology, environment health and other

subjects area specialists and other representatives. The said Committee twice

recommended for the EC for this airport project after satisfying themselves after

viewing the presentation and the EIA report of this respondent and after due

consideration of the relevant documents submitted by various parties, agencies and

other authorities and after additional clarifications were furnished in response to the

observations/queries raised by various persons/organizations and authorities as the

case may be. The appellant is trying to give an impression that approval was

granted in a lackadaisical manner which is false. This process is going on for years

and this respondent has done a valid and thorough study of environmental impact of

setting up the said airport at the location to the ecology, environment, flora and

fauna, land etc., and submitted the report which presents the correct position and

the generalities as it exists at the location of the study. 133. The EAC has recommended for the grant of EC for the project as per

the provisions of EIA Notification, 2006 and its subsequent amendments. The EIA

study has been conducted and report submitted based on the ToR pertaining to

Aranmula site. This report covers the planned environmental monitoring programe

and provided overall justification for implementation of the project and it also

explained how the adverse effects can be mitigated. This respondent has

downloaded the Google Map and enclosed in the EIA report to give the actual 137 status of the present condition of the site and to mention the lie of the land and

nature of the site. The entire field study was made during July 2010 to October 2010

and the same covers all the relevant aspects. The water requirement is only 7550

litres/day which is not on a large scale and the present ground water table potential

is sufficient for the water requirement. The area receives plenty of rainfall and the

natural recharge will take care of water replenishment. The designed capacity of the

actual sewage is 7M3 per day and after taking into account the future expansion,

the designed capacity of STP is 50 M3 per day. As per the EIA Notification, 2006,

the study area should be within 10 km radius of the site and the study has been

conducted based on ToR and as per Chapter IV regarding description of EIA

guidelines for airports. The method of assessment of impact includes studies carried

out, modeling techniques adopted to assess the impact which has been elaborated

in the EIA report. The report gives the details of baseline parameters, both during

construction and operational phases and suggests mitigation measures to be

implemented by the airport company. The air sampling equation was done and is

set out in page No. 62 of the report and followed the necessary parameters as set

out in page No. 74. As per clause 3.9.3 of the report, particulate matter-PM 10, PM

25, Sulphur di oxide and oxides of nitrogen are within limits in and around the

project site. Carbon monoxide is very limited in the area and this respondent has

conducted the ambient air quality standards as per the new norms. The

hydrocarbons can be reduced by developing a green belt and air environment and

noise impact have been mentioned at page No. 101 and 102 of the report. The

disposal of hazardous waste and the solid waste generation can be made as per the

guidelines prescribed from time to time. In any case, the airport company has to

obtain necessary consent to establish and consent to operate from the Kerala State 138 Pollution Control Board. The ToR has been prepared for the airport sector after duly

catering to the commonly expected environmental concerns and the identification of

specific issues by the proponent company and the ToR has been prepared the EIA

report upon the approval of the ToR by the EAC and this respondent in the EIA

report has studied various environmental parameters which would occur during

construction and operational phases of the airport project for assessment of the

impact on the surrounding environment. No part of the project area of 500 acres is

wetland and the revenue records would evidence to this effect. There is no need to

reclaim any part of the said area and further no cultivation has taken place in that

area for several years. As per the Wetlands (Conservation and Management Rules),

2010, a list of wetland in India identified as Ramsar Sites under the Ramsar

Convention of Wetland is set out and no portion of the land included in the

Aranmula airport project is found in the identified wetland and the repeated

contention of the appellants that the project site consists of wetland is not supported

by record. 134. The rivulet which was identified as passing through the land was

blocked and clogged and water was not flowing for years and the water was flowing

in the said rivulet now and the same has been and will continue to b safeguarded.

The paddy lands can be reclaimed for public purposes as per Kerala Conservation

of Paddy land and Wetland Act, 2008. The project land is a degraded land with

water logging and invasive plant species affecting native bio diversity and the

project site has no ecological/geographical significance other than the fact that the

said land was paddy land more than 20 years ago and is now a fallow, water logged

land unfit for paddy cultivation as is evident from the report of the Agriculture Officer.

The paddy lands are not wetlands. 135. The area is not a heritage site due to any aspect of the land or the

people and the heritage status has not been granted for any of the environmental

sectors. The heritage status is granted to the area only due to 'Uthirattadhi Boat

Race' and the 'Aranmula Mirror' which are unique to this village and which will not

affected by the establishment of an airport in the project area. There are no

protected monuments in the project area which will be affected by the establishment

of an airport and though the temple and the mast are not monuments protected by

the ASI, they will be protected and will not be affected by the airport project. The

alleged issues raised in the report of the Salim Ali Foundation could erode the

validity of the EIA study are denied by this respondent. 136. The ToR along with the compliance report is clearly mentioned in the

EIA report after examining the following aspects: 137. In view of the above mitigative measures are more than adequate dealt

with and hence, the averments contained in the appeal grounds are nothing but a

figment of the appellant's imagination and this respondent has provided required

Environment Monitoring Programme as required in the Manual. 138. This respondent has dealt with all issues arising out of Chapter 7 of the

Manual. In any case, additional studies have been conducted by the company 141 through various qualified experts qualified to conduct the study such as feasibility

study by KITCO, a comprehensive and mandatory obstruction study by M/s. Aero

Survey, New Delhi which is a recognized agency for conducting obstacle study for

airport project by Civil Aviation, Air Ports Authority and Director General of Civil

Aviation wherein experts have dealt with the steps taken regarding the obstructions

providing adequate remedial measures whereby it was suggested to displace the

threshold of the runway by 285 m. 139. The Office Memorandum dated 1st September 2010 and 30th November

2011, the period for getting accredited has been extended from 30th June 2010 to 1st

October 2011. An anomalous situation occurs if the interpretation given by the

appellant to these office memorandums in that an unqualified person whose

accreditation is rejected and if he gives a report before 1st October 2011, the said

report is valid whereas this respondent who is qualified to do Category A projects,

but chooses not to do them in future and applies for accreditation only for Category

B projects, when they give a report after 30 th June 2010, the same will be

considered invalid. 140. The accreditation memo is not signed by a competent authority and

hence, is not binding on this respondent. In as much as there exists no terms which

provides for accreditation, the same cannot be imposed by way of an office

memorandum. The said memo is not even an executive instruction under Article 73 and Article 162 of the Constitution of India, being issued not by the State or the

Union but by an instrumentality. Even assuming that the office memorandum is

binding on the respondent, it is merely a procedural formality which is directive in

nature and unless the appellant proves that this respondent is incompetent and that 142 hardship has been caused to him by virtue of the lack of accreditation to the

respondent for Category A project. Procedural provisions are directory and it can be

enforced to set aside the order only in the eventuality of hardship being proved by

the party alleging the same. In any case, this project was commenced by this

respondent well before the office memorandum regarding accreditation was issued

and they submitted the report in the month of October 2010. In spite of being

adequately qualified and having satisfactorily submitted reports in the construction

of airports at Chennai, Raipur and Vadodara and various other prestigious projects,

merely because this respondent applied for accreditation for Category B projects,

more particularly for thermal projects for purely techno-commercial reasons, the

same does not disqualify this respondent from giving a valid EIA for a project

assigned to them even before the issuance of the office memorandum introducing

accreditation for the consultants. Hence, denying the averments made in the appeal

that it was incompetent on the part of this respondent to submit EIA report based on

that the impugned EC was made, this respondent, namely Enviro Care India Pvt.,

Ltd., seeks to uphold the EIA report submitted by them for the said project. 141. The Kerala State Pollution Control Board, arrayed as 3 rd respondent in

Appeal No. 172 of 2013 (SZ), 4th respondent in Appeal No. 1 of 2014 (SZ) and 6th

respondent in Appeal No. 19 of 2014 (SZ) states in the reply affidavit as follows: 142. The Project Proponent, the fourth respondent, requested the Kerala

State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to organize the public hearing as part of the

Environmental Clearance process for their project on 02.02.2011 to construct a new

airport at Aranmula in Ptahtanamthitta District of Kerala along with sufficient copies

of the draft EIA and Malayalam and English version of its executive summary. In 143 consultation with the District Collector of Pathanamthitta. The public hearing was

fixed at 11.00 AM on 10.03.2011 at the conference hall of the District Collectorate at

Pathanamthitta. Wide publicity was given on 06.02.2011 in a national and two

regional vernacular dailies in the manner and within the time specified in the

notification. More than 30 days 'time was given between the date of publication and

the date of hearing. 143. However, due to the declaration on 01.3.2011 of elections to the Kerala

State Legislative Assembly on 13.04.2011, the date of public hearing had to be

rescheduled by the District Collector with approval from the Election Commission.

The public hearing was postponed to 29.04.2011 and Wide publicity was again given

through the same national and two regional vernacular dailies on 27.03.2011. More

than 30 days' time was again given between the date of publication and the date of

hearing. On account of a sudden call for hartal in Pathanamthitta on 29.04.2011, the

public hearing had to be postponed further and it was decided to hold it on 10.5.2011

at 11.00 AM at the Conference Hall of District Collectorate, Pathanamthitta. This

postponement was also published on 28.04.2011 in the same dailies. 144. The soft copies of the draft environment impact assessment report and

the Malayalam and English versions of the executive summary were made available

for public scrutiny in the Board's website and its hard copies were made at the

District Collectorate, Pathanamthitta, District Industries Centre, Kozhencherry,

District Panchayat, Pathanamthitta, Elanthoor Block Panchayat, Aranmula Grama

Panchayat, Mezhuveli Grama Panchayat, Mallapuzhasssery Grama Panchayat,

Science, Technology and Environment Department, Thiruvananthapuram. Pollution

Control Board, Pathanamthitta District Office and Pollution Control Board, Head 144 Office, Thiruvananthapuram and the draft environmental report in Malayalam and

English versions of its executive summary were made available for public scrutiny at

the above places for more than eighty days from 06.02.2011 to 10.05.2011. Thus the

documents were made available for more than the mandatory 30 days for the public

to furnish their responses. 145. The public hearing was held at 11 am on 10.05.2011 at the conference

hall of the Pathanamthitta District Collectorate. The venue was selected considering

its proximity to the project site and the facilities available at the conference hall to

conduct the hearing. The distance from the project site to the venue was only 15 km.

There were 80 participants in the public hearing and most of them were from

Aranmula and adjoining areas. The hearing was presided by the District Collector.

The proceedings of the public hearing, representations in original received before

and during the hearing and video recording of the hearing were forwarded to the

MoEF as required under the EIA Notification, 2006. The proceedings of the public

hearing were prominently displayed at the head office and Pathanamthitta District

Office of the Board. Action was also taken to similarly display the proceedings at the

offices listed above. Thus, the KSPCB has faithfully discharged the obligations under

the EIA Notification, 2006. Hence, the KSPCB seeks to dismiss the appeal. 146. As seen above, all these appeals challenge the EC given by the MoEF of

the Union of India dated 18.11.2013 in favour of M/s. K.G.S. Aranmula International

Airport Ltd. and for consequential direction to the authorities. Hence, all the appeals

are taken up jointly. Since the array of the parties varies in each of the appeals, for

the sake of convenience, the array of parties is shown hereafter as found in Appeal

No. 19 of 2014. On the pleadings of the parties, following questions are formulated 145 for consideration by the Tribunal: 147. Elaborate arguments were made by Shri T. Mohan, the learned counsel

appearing for the appellant in Appeal No. 172 of 2013 (SZ), Shri Asok M. Cherian,

learned counsel for the appellant in Appeal No. 173 of 2013 (SZ), Shri R. Krishna

Raj, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant in Appeal No. 174 of 2013 (SZ),

Shrimati Mallika Srinivasan, learned counsel appearing for the appellant in Appeal

No. 1 of 2014 and Shri Harish. V the learned counsel appearing for the appellant in

Appeal No. 19 of 2014 (SZ). Heard also the learned Advocate General of the State

of Kerala Shri K.P. Dhandapani, appearing for the respondent No. 2 and 4, State of

Kerala and the District Collector, Pathanamthitta District, Kerala State , Shrimathi C.

Sangamithirai, learned counsel appearing for the 1st respondent/MoEF, Shri T.R.

Rajaogpalan, the learned Senior Advocate appearing for M/s. Aranmula International 146 Airport Ltd., respondent No. 3, Shri P.S. Raman, learned Senior Advocate appearing

for M/s. Enviro Care India Pvt., Ltd., 5th respondent and Shri M. Ajay, learned

counsel for the Kerala State Pollution Control Board, 6th respondent. The 4th

respondent, namely Kozhencherry Charitable Education Society was given up during

the course of the proceedings. The Tribunal also paid its anxious considerations to

the averments made in the grounds of appeals and the materials made available. 148. Point No. 1: Whether the appeals are not maintainable since the appellants are

neither persons aggrieved nor have any locus standi to prefer the appeals and also

on the grounds of the Tribunal not having the jurisdiction. i) At the outset, Shri K. P. Dhandapani, the learned Advocate General of the

Government of Kerala questioning the maintainability of all the appeals, would

submit that the appeals are not maintainable either in law or on facts. Under the

circumstances of the case, the issues raised by the appellants can be broadly

classified into two broad categories. (i) Challenge is made in the appeals which

would fall under the Kerala Land Reforms Act, Kerala Conservancy of Land Act,

Kerala Conservancy of Paddy Land and Wetland Act , which cannot be raised and

agitated before this Tribunal for lack of jurisdiction, (ii) Challenge made in the

appeals would fall in Appellate Jurisdiction conferred under section 18 of the

National Green Tribunal Act, 2010. The first set of appeals is outside the purview of

the jurisdiction of this Tribunal and hence, they cannot be considered. In so far as

the 2nd set of appeals is concerned, the appeals can be initiated only by a person

aggrieved. But, the appellants are not aggrieved persons and hence, all the appeals

have got to be dismissed. An aggrieved person is a person who has a legal right to

enforce and whose rights are adversely affected or jeopardized. In order to 147 substantiate his contentions, the learned Advocate General relied on the decision of Ayubkhan Noorkhan Pathan Vs. State of Maharashtra , 2013(4) SCC 465. After the

analysis of the various provisions of the Administrative Tribunal Act , the Hon'ble

Apex Court held in Dr. Duryodhan Sahu Vs. Jithendra Kumar Mishra reported in

1997 SCC 273 that a Tribunal can be approached by a person aggrieved by an order

as defined. Placing reliance on the above decision , the learned Advocate General

would state that the appellants are total strangers to the proceedings in issuing the

EC and did not have right under statutes to challenge the same. None of the

appellants own even an inch of land in the present site and hence, all the appeals

have to be got dismissed on that ground. ii) Answering the above contention, the counsel for the appellants would

submit that the appellant in Appeal No. 1 of 2014 (SZ) is Aranmula Heritage Village

Action Committee while the appellants in other appeals though are individuals, all

are working for the protection of natural resources and ecology of Pathanamthitta

district including Aranmula where the proposed airport project is being set up. They

constitute a social and environment group with the objective of working for the

welfare of the local community and small land holders and have been creating

awareness on environmental issues. Hence, the contention putforth by the

respondents that the appellants do not own any land in that area or they did not

participate in the public hearing has to be rejected. When the EC to the project

proponent is likely to affect directly or indirectly, the organization or every citizen can

prefer an appeal since they are aggrieved persons and hence the appellants can

well maintain the appeals. Equally in so far as the contention that the Tribunal has no

jurisdiction to enquire the appeals, each and every averment made in the appeals

would clearly indicate that the EC has been granted for the airport project to the 148 applicant without taking into consideration the ecological impact and environmental

degradation which would be caused by the project and hence, the issues to be

decided in all the appeals would fall squarely within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal.

Hence, the said contention put forth by the respondents' side has to be rejected. iii) As seen above, the 2nd respondent/State of Kerala has raised two

preliminary objections questioning the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to enquire the

appeals apart from stating that the appellants cannot maintain the appeals since they

are not aggrieved persons as envisaged under the provisions of the NGT Act, 2010 .

Speaking on the jurisdiction of the Tribunal, section 14 of the NGT Act, 2010 reads

as follows: iv) A reading of the above would make it clear that this clause confers on the

Tribunal a very wide jurisdiction can cases where a substantial question relating to

environment including enforcement of legal rights relating to environment is involved.

No doubt, such question should arise out of the implementation of enactment

specified in Schedule I of the Act . In Schedule I to the NGT Act, 2010 , 7 enactments

are enumerated which are: 149 It cannot be disputed that the reports may and the proceedings initiated against

those alleged acts are under a number of enactments like the Kerala Land Reforms

Act, Kerala Land Conservation Act , Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and

Wetlands etc. It is pertinent to point out that none of these appeals has been

preferred under any one of these enactments. All these appeals concentrate in

challenging the EC granted in respect of the Aranmula airport project. Basing their

cases on all the environmental impact if the project is allowed to be setup as per the

grant of EC, it leaves no doubt that the appellants have raised substantial question

relating to environment and the issues involved remain to be decided by the Tribunal

and the said questions arise out of the implementation of the enactments specified in Schedule I to the Act and it will be futile to contend that the challenges are made by

appellants with respect to other State laws mentioned above and hence, the

contention putforth by the respondent/State of Kerala that the appeals are not

maintainable before the Tribunal for lack of jurisdiction has to be rejected as devoid

of merits. vi) Equally so is the other contention that the appellants cannot maintain the

appeals since none of the appeals is preferred by a person aggrieved. The NGT Act,

2010 came into force by the repealing the National Environment Appellate Authority

Act, 1997 Under appeals to authority in sections 11(1) and 11(2) the reading is as

follows: By repealing the NEAA Act, 1997, the NGT Act, 2010 came into force.

Speaking of the appellate jurisdiction, Section 16 of the NGTAct, 2010 reads as

follows: Provided that the Tribunal may, if it is satisfied that the appellant was

 not prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal within the

 said period allow it be filed under this section within a further period

 of not exceeding sixty days. 149. Both under Section 11 of the NEAA Act,.1997 and Section 18 of the

NGT Act, 2010 any person aggrieved by the grant of EC as shown above can

maintain an appeal. The 'aggrieved person' as contemplated in the Act came up for

interpretation before the Tribunal in a number of cases. An aggrieved person

contemplated in the above provisions would refer to the substantial grievance as to

denial of some personal, pecuniary or property right or imposing an obligation on a

person. The grievance so ventilated should not be either fanciful or sentimental, but

must be substantial. A person calling himself as an 'aggrieved' must have suffered a

legal grievance that he has been wrongfully deprived of something or refused

wrongfully. The aggrieved person can either be aggrieved either directly or

indirectly. In so far as the environmental matters are concerned, it cannot be stated 154 that the person really aggrieved should alone be permitted to initiate an action. It is

not necessary that the person, who initiates action, is a resident of that particular

area wherein the proposed industrial site is located. It is true that the appellants

have not participated in the proceedings of the public hearing. It is true that it is

necessary to scan the credentials of the appellants as to their intention and motive.

Even assuming that the appellants have not participated in the proceedings of the

public hearing, they would not lose their right to challenge the approval or the EC. If

the appellants come forward with a case apprehending damage and danger to

environment and ecology if the project in question was not properly envisaged and

did not satisfy the Principles of Sustainable Development and Precautionary

Principle, they can maintain the appeal and be allowed to agitate as to the

correctness of the study made in respect of ecology and environment. In the instant

case, nothing substantial has been demonstrated in order to doubt the credentials of

the appellants. What are all stated by the respondents is that the appellants are not

residents of that area or they do not have any piece of land and hence they are not

aggrieved persons. The appellant in Appeal No. 174 of 2014 (SZ), namely the

Aranmula Village Heritage Action Council is an organization while other appellants

are individuals. It is contended by them that they are social activists with the

objective of working for the welfare of the local communities for creating awareness

on environmental issues. While in the matter of ecology and environment everyone

is directly or indirectly affected and also interested person in exercise of his right

can prefer and maintain an appeal ventilating the grievance. It is specifically alleged

that the EC granted to the project proponent is likely to affect either directly or

indirectly and can prefer an appeal ventilating the grievance. Hence, the appellants

are to be termed as aggrieved persons as envisaged under the provisions of the 155 NGT Act, 2010 who can maintain appeal and thus, the question is answered in

favour of the appellants. 150. Hence, for the reasons stated above it is held that the appellants can

well maintain the appeals and this Tribunal has jurisdiction to entertain the appeals. 151. Point No. 2: Whether the EC is to be set aside on the grounds that the EIA is

prepared by an unqualified agency. i) Criticizing strongly the EIA prepared by the 5 th respondent, M/s. Enviro Care

India Pvt. Ltd., Madurai, Shri T. Mohan, counsel would submit that according to the

EIA Notification, 2006, the airport projects would fall under Category A and only a

duly accredited EIA consultant could appear before the EAC or prepare the EIA

report. The present agency is found in Serial No. 47 of the QCI list (Annexure A-5).

As per the accreditation, the 5th respondent was authorized only to conduct an EIA

for Category B projects. This aspect was never considered by the 1 st

respondent/MoEF while granting the impugned EC. The 1st respondent has placed

reliance of the Office Memorandum dated 30.12.2012 to state that the consultants

who had applied including the 5th respondent were permitted to act as consultant

and certify EIA/EMP and appear before the State Level Environment Appraisal

Committee (SEAC) and State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority

(SEIAA) or EAC as the case may be. But, in the instant case, the 5 th

respondent/Consultant did not even apply for certification for airport category, but

has applied only for thermal power projects which fact is admitted by the 5 th

respondent in the reply affidavit. The present EIA report has been prepared by an

organization that was not qualified to do so. In any case, Annexure A-15 filed by the

applicant/consultant made it clear that the application itself was submitted only on 156 21.11.2011. Hence, it would be clear that the 5 th respondent/consultant did not

make the application that resulted in accreditation for Category B projects pending

during the time when the EIA report was prepared and submitted. Even the

application made by the 5th respondent/consultant was also rejected. A person who

has merely applied for certain sectors cannot be said to have blanket power to

prepare EIA reports and appear in respect of all categories and sectors without

reference to the category applied for and the consequent accreditation. Whether the

consultant had prepared the EIA report for those sectors earlier had no relevance

and it is open to the 5th respondent/consultant to challenge the issue as to whether

the accreditation is legal or not in the present petition. It is not correct to state that at

the time of presentation, there was no QCI implemented accreditation scheme.

From 2009, the Ministry has imposed guidelines on preparation of EIA and

presentation to EAC. The fact that the 5th respondent/consultant was found in the

list of 255 applicants would not entitle him to certify the reports pertaining to the

sectors unconnected to their application. It is also evident from the Annexure

submitted along with the appeal memo in Appeal No. 19 of 2014 (SZ) that the

application of the 5th respondent/consultant was rejected and subsequently a new

application was made. Hence, the pendency of the application which was rejected

cannot even be considered as a factor that would qualify the consultant to prepare

the said EIA report. The EIA report prepared by an unqualified consultant cannot

form basis of grant of the impugned EC which the 1 st respondent ought not to have

granted and it liable to be set aside. ii) The learned counsel Shri. Jacob P. Alex appearing for the appellant in

Appeal No. 19 of 2014 (SZ) would submit that the 5th respondent/consultant did not

have the competence or expertise to prepare the EIA report for the airport project. 157 Chapter XII of EIA Guidance Manual for Airports would show that it is mandatory to

disclose the accreditation details of the consultants. But, in this case there was no

disclosure of consultants engaged as mandated. The minutes of the accreditation

committee meeting dated 08.01.2013 would show that the 5 th respondent/consultant

was granted accreditation to Category B projects that too not in airport sector.

Similarly, the list of experts in Annexure A-25 would show that the 5th

respondent/consultant did not employ any expert who is competent to prepare the

EIA report for airport projects. The scheme of accreditation of EIA consultants can

apply only to a maximum of 5 sectors for accreditation. Accordingly, the 5 th

respondent/consultant had already applied for 5 sectors. But, he did not apply for

accreditation in airport sector. iii) Countering the above contention of the appellant's side, the learned Senior

Advocate Shri P.S. Raman would submit that the 5 th respondent/consultant was not

competent to submit EIA report is incorrect and unfounded. The Hon'ble Apex Court

in the judgment of T.N. Godhavarman Thirumalpad Vs. Union of India and others (2014) 4 SCC 61 delivered in the year 2013 has declared that the provision of

compulsory accreditation was prospective. The concept of accreditation was

suggested by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Lafarge Umiam Mining (P) Ltd.,

Vs. Union of India (2011) 7 SCC 388 and the judgment in T.N. Godhavarman

Thirumalpad Vs. Union of India and others (2014) 4 SCC 61 set out the guidelines

for future cases. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India issued directions for

appointment of a regulator. But, the regulator is yet to be appointed. A perusal of the

office memorandum issued subsequently on 01.11.2010, 31.12.2010 and

30.09.2011 would show that the last date of filing of the application for accreditation

was extended till 31.12.2011 and all the applications submitted till then were valid. 158 The 5th respondent/consultant was registered with the QCI as a qualified EIA

consultant and successfully completed two green field airports in the past at Raipur

and Vadodara and they were the consultants for the construction of phase II of the

Chennai airport. Therefore, the 5th respondent/consultant has experience in the field

of airport projects and more particularly in Greenfield Airports. The 5 th

respondent/consultant has expressly stated in the reply that an ISO certified

company who has been actively involved in developing cleaner environment

throughout the country, more particularly in the region since 2004. The 5th

respondent/consultant is an ISO 9001 certified company having BIS accreditation

and having laboratory facilities accredited by NABL and Department of Science and

Technology for chemical and biological testing. The 5th respondent/consultant is

having National Accreditation Board Certification for Education and Training

(NABET) from QCI. It is also doing consultancy services such as EIA, EMP, Risk

Assessment, Detailed Project Reports and Environmental Audit and Training and

has done several turnkey projects. The 5th respondent/consultant though being

adequately qualified and having satisfactorily submitted the reports in the

construction of airports at Chennai, Raipur and Vadodara and various other

prestigious projects, pursued their application for accreditation for Category B

projects alone, more particularly for thermal projects for purely commercial reasons

and it did not meant that the 5th respondent/consultant from giving a valid EIA report

for a project assigned to them even before the issuance of the office memorandum

introducing accreditation for the consultants. It is highly ironic and ridiculous on the

part of the appellant to suggest a party who has filed to secure accreditation in

Category A on merit can issue a valid report for the airport sector till December,

2011. Whereas the 5th respondent/consultant who has ample experience in the 159 airport sector and issued well within December, 2011 was not valid because for the

future the 5th respondent/consultant wanted to restrict themselves to thermal power

sector for purely commercial reasons. iv) When the project proponent enquired with the AAI for guidance for

appointment of an EIA consultant, the AAI for the above reasons recommended the

5th respondent/consultant to the project proponent. Even assuming while denying

that there was a need for compulsory accreditation even prior to the appointment of

the 5th respondent as a consultant for the project, the 5th respondent/consultant

submits that the accreditation memo was not signed by a competent authority and

hence, it was not binding on the 5th respondent/consultant. In as much as there

existed no norms which provided accreditation, the same cannot be imposed by

way of an office memorandum. The said memorandum is not even an executive

instruction under Articles 73 and 161 of the Constitution of India. The office

memorandum is merely a procedural formality which is directory in nature. Unless

the appellant proves that the 5th respondent/consultant was incompetent and that

hardship has been caused to him by virtue of lack of accreditation of the 5 th

respondent/consultant for Category A projects, the contentions put forth by the

appellant have to be rejected. Thus, the report of the 5 th respondent/consultant was

valid and lack of accreditation was a subsequent event which has no consequence

to the EIA report submitted them. Equally the 2 nd argument of the appellant's side

that the EIA report is not valid since ToR was issued on 13.10.2010, the study was

conducted by the 5th respondent/consultant for collecting primary data for the period

July, 2010 to October, 2010 is not correct since as soon as the process for issuance

of the ToR started, the project proponent engaged the 5 th respondent as the

consultant and the 5th respondent started collecting samples as per the usual 160 practice. When the ToR was issued by the authority, the investigation was

underway and the 5th respondent/consultant also took into account the parameters

set out in the ToR prior to preparation of EIA report. Hence, no illegality was

committed in the manner and conduct of investigation and the EIA report cannot be

attacked on that ground. Therefore, the 5th respondent/consultant was competent to

give the EIA report and the same was given by them as per the guidelines and also

in good faith and the EIA report has got to be upheld. v) All the appellants have vehemently attacked the EIA report prepared by

the 5th respondent/consultant as invalid and unsustainable and in view of the same,

the EAC should not have acted upon the same and granted the impugned EC.

Among other grounds, the appellants have challenged the EIA as the one prepared

by an unqualified agency. Admittedly, according to the EIA Notification, 2006, the

airport projects fall under Category-A. From the available materials, it is seen that

the 3rd respondent/project proponent has submitted the application on 02.07.2010

and the same was considered by EAC in the 91 st meeting on 21.09.2010. The ToR

was finalized on 13.10.2010. According to the 5th respondent/consultant the field

study was done during July-October 2010 and the EIA report was submitted as per

the reply of 5th respondent/consultant in October, 2010. While the matter stood thus,

the 1st respondent/MoEF decided only two consultants who had applied for

accreditation till 30.11.2010 be permitted and certify the documents before SEAC,

SEIAA and EAC till 30.11.2011. Office Memoranda were issued on 01.11.2010,

31.12.2010 and 30.09.2011 which would show that the last date of filing the

application for accreditation was extended till 31.12.2011. While it is contended by

the appellants' side that the 5th respondent/consultant was not competent and he

should not be allowed to have the benefit of pendency of the application for 161 accreditation. Contrarily, the 5th respondent/consultant would submit that they were

competent to prepare EIA report in view of the office memoranda of the 1 st

respondent/MoEF extending the date for filing application for accreditation till

31.12.2011 and also the effect of that report till then is valid. In the instant case, the

5th respondent/consultant has prepared the EIA report, participated in the public

hearing and also has appeared before the EAC which recommended the EIA report

given by the 5th respondent/consultant for grant of EC for Aranmula airport project.

The Tribunal is afraid whether it can agree with the contention of the 5 th

respondent/consultant that it was competent to prepare the EIA report. It is not in

controversy that as per the EIA Notification 2006, the airport projects would come

under Category A. Needless to say that placing the projects and categorizing them

as A and B should have importance and significance. Expectation of accreditation

for the consultant with a view to ensure that the EIA coordinator and functional area

expert is a person with sufficient skill and experience in the relevant field. It is not

the case of the 5th respondent/consultant is found in serial No. 47 of the QCI list. As

per the accreditation, the 5th respondent/consultant was authorized to prepare EIA

reports only for Category B projects. It is true that the 1 st respondent/MoEF 255

consultants who applied for accreditation till 30.09.2011 to appear or certify

documents to SEAC, SEIAA and EAC till 30.09.2011. It is also true that the last of

the submission of the said applications was extended to 31.12.2011. The 5 th

respondent/consultant cannot be permitted to take advantage of this permission

granted by the 1st respondent/MoEF for the simple reason that the application made

by the 5th respondent/consultant for accreditation was rejected on 30.09.2011 and

the EAC recommended for EC on 16.08.2012. It is true that the 5 th

respondent/consultant made another application on 15.12.2011 after the first 162 application for accreditation was rejected. Under the said application, the 5 th

respondent/consultant sought for accreditation and was granted the same for

Category B project which did not include the airport sector. vi) As per the scheme of accreditation of EIA consultants, an EIA consultant

can apply to a maximum of 5 sectors for accreditation. It is candidly admitted by the

5th respondent/consultant that though he applied for the 5 sectors, his application

did not include airport projects. The only explanation tendered by the 5th

respondent/consultant is that in view of commercial reasons he did not apply for

accreditation for airport sector though he has sufficient experience in the field. This

explanation cannot be accepted even for a moment. Admittedly, the 5 th

respondent/consultant has not applied for accreditation for airport projects falling

under Category A. Mere pendency of an application for accreditation for Category B

projects would not cloth him with a right to make a study, field survey and

preparation of EIA reports in respect of the airport projects which according to

notification is categorized as Category A. If this contention has to be accepted, the

very purpose of importance and significance of placing airport projects under

Category A itself would be defeated. It is contended by the 5th

respondent/consultant that the guidelines manual is only recommendatory and not

mandatory. But that is not the case in so far as EIA Notification, 2006 is concerned.

Much was contended by the 5th respondent/consultant that he has completed

studies on two green field airports at Raipur and Vadodara and he was the

consultant for the construction in phase II of Chennai airport and his experience in

the field would speak volumes of his competence. This contention has to be

rejected for two reasons. Firstly, the competence of the 5 th respondent/consultant

has to be tested from the view point of EIA Notification, 2006 which governs the 163 field. While airport project is categorized as A to which neither the 5 th

respondent/consultant has applied for nor was granted any projects under Category

A and in particular the airport projects. On the contrary, he applied twice and

obtained accreditation only for the projects under Category B. Hence, he is

incompetent. Secondly, in so far as the alleged experience of the 5th

respondent/consultant is concerned, there are no materials placed before the

Tribunal to indicate the nature of works that was undertaken by the 5 th

respondent/consultant in respect of the three airport projects. Even assuming that

the 5th respondent/consultant had experience, that would not qualify him as a

competent consultancy agency in view of the mandatory provisions of the EIA

Notification, 2006. Hence, it has got to be held that the 5 th respondent/consultant

was not competent to make a study and prepare an EIA report for the airport

project. As rightly pointed out by the appellants, the EAC at the time of meeting

never considered this vital aspect of the matter, but has recommended for the

issuance of EC. This would certainly shake the very bottom of the recommendation

made by the EAC since it was based on the EIA report given by the 5 th

respondent/consultant, an incompetent agency. 152. For the discussions made above, it is held that the 5 th respondent/consultant

was not competent to prepare the EIA or appear before the EAC in respect of the

Aranmula airport project. 153. Point No. 3: Whether the Form I submitted by the 3rd respondent/project

proponent suffers due to inadequacy and false statements. i) The contentions put forth by the appellants' side that the proposed site for

Aranmula airport is a wetland is not correct both factually and legally. According to 164 Section 2(g) of the Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010 'wet land'

means ......"an area of marsh, fen, peat land or water; natural or artificial, permanent

or temporary, with water that is static or flowing, fresh brackish or salt, including

areas of marine water, the depth of which at low tide does not exceed 6 meters and

includes all inland waters such as lakes, reservoir, tanks, backwaters, lagoon,

creeks, estuaries and manmade wet land and zone of direct influence on wet lands

that is to say the drainage area or catchment region of the wet lands as determined

by the authority, but does not include many river channels, paddy fields and the

coastal wet land covered under the notification of the Government of India in the

Ministry of Environment and Forest, S.O. number 114(E) dated the 19 th February

1991 published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3 , Sub Section (ii) of dated the 20th February 1991." . The Wet Land Conservation Management

Rules has been notified by the Central Government as per the Gazatte Notification

No. GSR 951(F) dated 04.12.2010 to enhance the wetland conservation and

management efforts in the country. These rules have beeen issued in exercise of

powers conferred by Environment (Protection) Act 1986. As per Rule 8(2) of the

Rules, the State Government had designated the department of environment and

climate change as the nodal agency for regulating the use of wetlands in the State

as per GO (Rt) No. 51/11/Envt. Dated 30.05.2011. As per Rule 6(2) of the Wet Land

(Conservation Management) Rules, the State Government shall prepare within a

period of one year from commencement of rules, a 'brief document' identifying and

clarifying the wetlands within their respective territories in accordance with the

crieteria specified under Rule 3. Rule 3 stipulates those wetlands which shall be

regulated under the rules and their classifications. Therefore, by virtue of notification

dated 30.05.2011, the department of Environment and Climate Change has 165 prepared an inventory by incorporating the guidelines such as geographical

dealiation of wetlands, demarcation on the basis of the zone of influence along with

proper maps, calculated the size of the wetland and given an account of preexisting

rights and previleges consistent or not consistent with the ecological health of the

wetland. It is worthwhile to mention that proposed project site for which the

environmental clarfication has granted is not a wetland as per the inventory prepared

under the Wetland Conservation Management Rules 2010. The Project site is only a

paddy land which is now waterlogged and degraded and which is lying as unfit for

paddy cultivation for the past so many years. It is also worthwhile to point out that

EC has been issued after considering all the relevant facts and circumstances of the

environmental issues. It was further contended by the learned Advocate General that

in as much as the Appellants contented that the site is wet land they tried to mislead

the Hon'ble Tribunal. Concealment of material facts amounts to suppression of facts

which is actually abuse of process of the Tribunal. In such an event, as held by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in K.D. Sharma v. SAIL, 2008(12) SCC 481, that if there is

no candid disclosure of relevant and material facts or the Petitioner is guilty of

misleading the Court , his petition may be dismissed at the threshold. ii) State of Kerala supports the Project for several reasons including the job

opportunities it can provide. Therefore, the State Government as a policy supports

the project and wanted the project to be finished in a time phased manner. A balance

has to be struck down between public opinion, national policy, economic growth and

apprehension. A balance has to be struck down between public opinion, national

policy, economic growth and apprehension, however legitimate it cannot override the

justification of the project as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in G. Sundarrajan

vs. Union of India , 2013 (6) SCC 620. iii) The Project Proponent has taken every care and caution to protect and

preserve the natural habitat, flora and fauna, rivulets and such other natural features,

in the best possible form, with least interference during the implementation of the

Airport Project. The Government of Kerala after evaluating the whole project in toto,

developmental contribution, employment potential, better connectivity and nature

friendly had taken 10% stake in this Greenfield Airport Project. This by itself speaks

about the essentiality and importance of this Airport to the State of Kerala. Some

factual mistakes in the report of the Salim Ali foundation are worth noting. The report

says that there are extensive wetlands in the village. But there is no identified wet

land in Aranmula Village as per the Report of the Centre for Earth Science Studies

(CESS). As the definition of the Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wet Land Act,

2008, paddy Land is not wet Land. The provisions of Central Wet Land Act are also

similar. Therefore, it seems the authors of the Report of Salim Ali Foundation have

confused Paddy Land with Wet Land. This Respondent had purchased the land in a

developed state and most of the lands are lying as water logged fallow land, dry land

and rubber plantations. The Company has purchased certain lands, which was

already converted prior to enactment of Conservation of Paddy Land and Wet Land

Act, 2008 . The Prior owner Kozhencherry Charitable Educational Society owned 232

Acres of land spread over in three villages- Aranmula, Mallapuzhassery and

Kidanganoor Villages in Pathanamthitta District. If the land was converted prior to

enactment of Act, nature of property cannot be looked into taking into consideration

of ground reality existing. The legal position remains settled through various

decisions of the Honourable High Court of Kerala. As per the Wetlands

(Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010, List of wetlands in India identified as

Ramsar Sites under Ramsar Convention on Wet Land, wherein no portion of the 167 Airport Project has been identified as "wet land" in the appended Schedule.

Moreover, there is no protected Wetland in the Project area as per the said Rules. iv) The project proponent required filling the bare minimum area required for

safe airport operation, leaving the remaining area in its natural form, there will be no

environmental impact due to this activity. The recharge also remains unaffected. The

soil required for this filling is calculated as under; 1000x150x1 = 150000 m 3 of soil.

On the whole, the minimum filling with the local material ensures environmental

homogeneity and produces no impact on environment. Paddy lands can be

reclaimed for public purposes as per the provisions of Kerala Conservation of Paddy

Land and Wetland Act, 2008 . Instead it has become a degraded land with water

logging and invasive plant species affecting native bio diversity. The project site has

no ecological or geographical significance other than it was a paddy field more than

20 years ago, and now a fallow water logged land unfit for paddy cultivation, as is

evident from the report of Principal Agricultural Officer, mentioned in Page Nos. 71- 75. The report shows the tragic situation in the area where not even 5 cents of the

paddy land could be made under paddy cultivation. As per the Act, paddy land does

not include wet land. Certain areas of the paddy field are lying as fallow and certain

fallow land is lying as degraded water logged area. In Annexure A -XXIII, petition of

the Land Owners' Association, the true situation of the project area is stated that "it is

flourishing with mosquitoes, leeches, pythons and in the locality skin affections in the

people have made life very difficult. There are many instances of leeches entering

the nostrils of cattle resulting in their death. If the project complies with the condition

in environment clearance, it could be executed whereby water logging can be

removed, the remaining paddy fields restored, and the rivulet could be rejuvenated.

A paddy land, which is not cultivable, cannot be left unutilized and would not ensure 168 to benefit of either the State, the parties or the public and not at all advance the

avowed objective of preserving the environment and maintaining ecological balance. v) In answer to the above the learned Senior Advocate would submit that the

contentions made by the appellants side relating to the Aranmula Parthasarathy

temple and the mast and rituals thereon are unfounded. The project will not have any

effect in the rituals as contended by the appellants' side. Famous temples such as

the Devi Temple at Sanghumukham and Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple are in

the close vicinity of Thiruvananthapuram Airport. The 'Arattu' Possession of Sree

Padmanabha Swamy Temple is through the Airport. There are many Airports in India

where Temples, Churches, Masjids and other places of worship are located directly

below the flight path (Approach funnel) of airports, and aircraft are regularly flying

over such places of worships. KITCO had conducted feasibility report (project report)

about the Airport Project. This study was supplemented by a comprehensive and

mandatory obstruction study by M/s Aero Survey, G-11, Second Floor, Green Park

Extn, New Delhi who is a recognized agency for conducting Obstacle Study for

Airport Project by Civil Aviation, Airport Authority and DGCA. In page 5 of their

Obstacle Study Report they have also noted the following obstructions with remedial

measures whereby it was suggested to displace the threshold of the runway by 285

meters due to the presence of flag mast of Shree Parthasarathy Temple. Airport

Officials visited the site and had discussions with the Company on the obstacle

Survey and Company agreed to displace the threshold by 285 m so as to protect the

rich heritage and sanctity of the Temple. This project will bring glory to the Temple. vi) Attacking the contentions made by the counsel for the appellants to the

effect that the project proponent has made false statements regarding the site 169 pending litigations against the project, at the time of submission of the application,

the learned counsel for the respondents would submit that they were absolutely

false. The project proponent placed basic information on 26.10.2010. It was clearly

stated that the project proponent has already purchased the land in a developed

state and most of the lands are lying as water logged fallow land, dry land and

Rubber Plantations. The project proponent purchased a part of the lands, which was

already converted prior to enactment of Conservation of Paddy Land and Wet Land

Act, 2008 and hence, they conversion cannot be attacked with the aid of the

provisions of the enactment. It is pertinent to point out that no portion of the airport

project was identified as wetland. Moreover, there was no protected wetland in the

project area as per the rules. It cannot be disputed for the pending litigation against

the project proponent/3rd respondent at the time of submission of the application in

Form I. There was no local land use plan and there was no zonal classification in the

airport area and hence, the land could be used only for airport project with strict

adherence to the conditions attached to EC. This airport project area has been

declared as an industrial area by the Government of Kerala. Hence, the statement

made by the project proponent/3rd respondent is falsely interpreted by the appellants

to suit to their convenience. There is no need for any further reclamation as the

Project area has been purchased in a developed state. There was no need for any

reclamation work in this Project. Most of the Project sites were in a developed

form/Rubber Plantation and dry Land. Aranmula, Pathanamthitta District is

connected by a good network of State highway roads. These roads have two-line

riding surface of minimum 35 ft with adequate space for future expansion on the

sides. Good connectivity from Alappuzha, Kottayam and Idukki Districts exists

towards Pathanamthitta District. It was more clear that minimum number of vehicles 170 for transporting raw materials. The same would not affect the existing traffic

movement and hence, there is no need for any new road or other transport

infrastructure during construction or operation or widening of the existing roads. vii) There was no need for any impoundment, damming or culverting,

realignment or other changes to the hydrology of water course or aquifers. Airport

land is interspersed with a small rivulet 'Kozhithodu" which is crossing the runway.

This rivulet eventually merges with the famous Pampa River. A cross vent of 20 x 2.5

m underneath the runway is planned to maintain free flow of water in Kozhithodu.

General lay of the land is towards Kozhithodu from South and North which facilitates

free flow of water from both ends of run way towards Kozhithodu and the proposed

drain. The project proponent has thoroughly examined all the minor

channels/canals/streams/rivulet in and around the project site and has taken due

precaution to protect and preserve water flow so as to ensure free flow of

accumulated water and preservation of water table in the area. viii) The statement regarding flora and fauna are made according to the

whims and fancies of appellant by which they attempted to false acquisition. The

same is vague and unscientific without mentioning specific flora and fauna probably

to be affected. As per the Tropical Botanical Centre and Zoological Survey of India,

there are no specific studies regarding flora and fauna conducted in Pathanamthitta

District. The EAC would list out a few cases for consideration during its sittings which

were for two to three days continuously and every environmental aspects associated

with the project would be discussed in detail before recommending sanction. The

ToR are based on the actual state of facts and on ground reality and based on

which, EIA was prepared in true sense. After hearing and perusing documents, video 171 and other connected records, EAC of MoEF recommended the project for

environmental clearance to the 1st respondent vides its minutes dated 16.12.2011

and again recommended the project for EC in its minutes dated 17.08.2012. Thus,

the project was cleared twice by the EAC and the matter was referred to the 1 st

respondent/MoEF for final clearance. Thus, the contentions putforth by the

appellants are totally false and frivolous. A reading of the impugned order EC would

indicate that it is a speaking order and considering all the pros and cons of the

environmental impact and after due consideration of the relevant documents

submitted by the 3rd respondent, project proponent and additional clarifications

furnished in response to its observations. Only after doing so, the EAC has

recommended for the grant of EC for the project as per the provisions of EIA

Notification, 2006 and its subsequent amendments, subject to strict compliance of

the terms and conditions as envisaged in the impugned order. The 3 rd

respondent/project proponent undertakes that they would comply with the specific

conditions envisaged in the EC in letter and spirit. The purpose regarding the

sensitive man-made land uses, like hospitals etc., are to be interpreted as items

directly or indirectly affecting the operation of the airport. It is necessary to identify

the presence of such obstructive structures, for which the 3rd respondent/project

proponent has separately conducted obstruction study before embarking on the

project, after the submission of the basic information. This would complement the

application. The aerial distance is for the purpose to identify any man-made

structures like hospital that would interfere with the operation of the airport. This

study was conducted by a comprehensive and mandatory obstruction study by M/s

Aero Survey, New Delhi, who is a recognised agency for conducting the said study. 172 ix) In so far as the vigilance enquiry ordered by the Court of Enquiry

Commissioner & Special Judge (Vigilance), Kottayam is concerned, it has been

stayed by the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala in Crml M.A No. 318/2014 in Crl MC No.

247/2014. x) Answering to the contentions put forth by the appellants in respect of

sustainable development and precautionary principle, the learned counsel would

submit that if both the doctrines are applied to the present factual position of the

case, the EC attached with necessary conditions has to be upheld. The 3 rd

respondent hereby undertakes that he would follow the specific conditions laid down

in the impugned order and will be a touchstone of sustainable development and its

impact on ecology has been taken care of following all national and international

principles. While balancing the benefit of establishing airport, if the 3 rd respondent

strikes a balance, such infrastructure facilities are of extreme importance for the

economic growth of the country, alleviate poverty, generate employment etc. While

setting up of a project of this nature, the 3 rd respondent have taken into account an

overall view of larger public interest rather than unsustainable objections and

allegations raised in this appeal and there is no violation of Article 21 of the

Constitution. The hue and cry raised by the appellants about the possible impact of

environment was fully addressed by the 1 st respondent/MoEF in their impugned

order. This airport project shall be on the concept of welfare and safety for the

purpose of development. The employment of potential-skilled, semi-skilled and

unskilled labour both during construction and operational phases of the project with

specific attention to employment potential of local population is necessary for this

airport Project. Socio-economic benefits of the Project mainly include provision of

additional Revenue generation, triggering growth in the region, provisions of 173 additional employment, development of ancillary industries and trade centres,

improvement in quality of life etc. Needless to say, it has to be totally guided by the

conception of public safety and welfare of the citizens. The term "welfare" is always

related to the living generation and generations to come. Promotion of development

and Protection of development are to be harmonized at the same time. By applying

the principles of sustainable development, the impugned order is a balance between

the developmental needs and the environmental degradation. xi) It is quite evident from the available materials, the 3rd respondent/project

proponent, while making an application for the airport project in Form I has provided

false data about the ecology in the area, resources to be used and overall impact on

the environment and presence of wetland or forests. Along with the feasibility report,

Form I was submitted by the 3rd respondent/project proponent on 28.06.2010. In that

said Form I, the following are noticed: III. NOISE i) Prediction of Noise from aircraft and from traffic going to

 and from airports - modelling studies. Mitigation of effects

 and management. ii) 2. Prediction of noise generated from taxiing aircrafts, the

 application of reverse-thrust (an optional braking aid on

 landing), engine tests and on-site vehicular traffic. Mitigation of effects and management iii) It is true that the ToR issued for the EIA study do not

 include the above. Notwithstanding this fact, the EIA

 consultant who claims long experience and expertise in the

 field should have addressed these issues. Undoubtedly,

 these issues deserve attention and analysis. Such an

 approach would have served the cause of environmental

 management at large. 154. Hence, it is held that the Form I in the application filed by the 3 rd

respondent/project proponent before the 1st respondent/MoEF for the Aranmula

airport project was inchoate and invalid for false and suppression of materials and

for inadequacy. 155. Point No. 4: Whether the impugned EC is liable to be set aside on the ground

that as the public hearing was not conducted as per the mandatory provisions of the

EIA Notification, 2006. i) Advancing the arguments on behalf of the appellants, the learned counsel 178 would submit that the public hearing is mandatory and it should be strictly in

accordance with the procedure specified in EIA Notification, 2006. In the instant

case, the 3rd respondent, the project proponent has neither conducted the public

hearing in accordance with law nor in a proper manner. The access to the site of

public hearing was not facilitated by the project proponent or other stake holders. As

a result, a majority of the people who are likely to be affected due to the setting up of

the project, namely the airport were not provided an opportunity to voice their

grievances. The 4th respondent applied on 02.02.2011 for conducting the public

hearing, but the alleged publication in the dailies did not contain all required

information as mandated by Appendix-VI of the EIA Notification, 2006. Even on that

date, the EIA report was not made available for viewing or posted in the website. The

public hearing was originally scheduled on 10.03.2011 and was rescheduled to

29.04.2011 and again to 10.05.2011. But, the change in the date of public hearing on

29.04.2011 and 10.05.2011 was not publicized. This fact also was borne out from

the minutes of the public hearing conducted on 10.05.2011. This is in clear violation

of EIA Notification, 2006 as the EIA Notification under clause 3.4 of Annexure IV

clearly states that the procedure in clause 3.1 has to be followed in case of

postponement. It is seen that the time difference between the postponed dates was

not 30 days which is the minimum mandatory time provided and the answer given by

the respondents that the period of time between the postponement was less than 30

days and hence, the postponement was not publicized cannot be accepted since this

led to a situation where the public was prevented from participation effectively in the

public hearing process. The minutes of the public hearing would indicate that only 26

persons were able to effectively participate in the hearing which can hardly be called

participative and democratic. The tenor of the serious protests held by the people of 179 the area was not reflected in the public hearing minutes and thus, this is violation of

law by denying effective participation of the people directly affected by the project.

Apart from that the public hearing was neither conducted at the project site nor

anywhere in the close proximity, but a distance of more than 15 km from the project

area and from the villages affected. The fact that only 80 people participated in the

hearing of a project of this magnitude is indicative of both inconvenience caused by

the venue and lack of adequate publicity for the same. In order to substantiate their

contentions, the learned counsel relied on the judgment of Hon'ble Gujarat High

Court reported in (i) Centre for Social Justice Vs. Union of India and others (AIR

2001 Guj.71) and (ii) S. Nandakumar Vs. The Secretary to Government, Tamil Nadu

in W.P. No. 10641 of 2009 and etc., dated 22.04.2010. The above judgments clearly

described the importance of the public hearing in the clearance process and the

facts of the present case makes it evident that the entire process was farce. The 1 st

respondent/MoEF has not considered any of the facts in the impugned clearance in

view of the violation of mandatory provisions in respect of the public hearing; the EC

has got to be set aside. ii) Arguing for the respondents' side on the question of above issue, the

learned counsel for the respondents would submit that the public hearing in respect

of the project in question was convened and conducted in accordance with the EIA

Notification, 2006. As per the EIA Notification, 2006 and as per Annexure IV, the

public hearing should be completed within a period of 45 days from the date of

receipt of complete documents as required in paragraph 1. The total number of days

as per the said schedule is 90 days for completing the Process vide Notification

dated 04.02.2011 and written comments are sought within 30 days of the date of

publication or to participate in public consultation. The date of first public hearing was 180 fixed on 10.03.2011 and by the letter dated 07.03.2011 a direction was issued by the

Chief Electoral Officer to defer the public hearing and by another letter it was

directed to be conducted after 13.04.2011. The date of 2 nd public hearing was

scheduled to 29.04.2011 and adjourned due to hartal. Notice of publicity was made.

The public hearing was actually conducted on 10.05.2011 and 2 copies of the

minutes of the public hearing were addressed to the MoEF by the Kerala State

Pollution Control Board. It is pertinent to note that the time period for completion of

public hearing was 45 days and for the first public hearing, 10 days time was given.

The period of election process has to be excluded to comply with the 45 days period.

The public hearing was conducted on 10.05.2011 and hence there was no violation

in so far as the notice period is concerned. Equally in so far as the place of public

hearing is concerned, the contentions put forth by the appellants side are baseless,

since after giving wide publicity through print and public media including hoardings,

newspaper advertisements etc. The public meeting was conducted at the District

Collectorate, Pathanamthitta district. It cannot be disputed the District Headquarters

(Collectorate) is centrally located at Pathanamthitta, which is about 10 Km from the

Project site and people from the Airport locality can reach the Collectorate within 15

minutes by bus and 10 minutes by car. The public hearing was conducted by the

State authorities in compliance with the requirements of the EIA Notification, 2006

and hence, the contentions put forth by the appellants are devoid of merits. iii) The learned counsel appearing for the 6th respondent, namely the Kerala

State Pollution Control Board would submit that the project proponent, the 3 rd

respondent, requested the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to organize

the public hearing as part of the Environmental Clearance Process for their project

on 02.02.2011 along with sufficient copies of the draft EIA and Malayalam and 181 English version of its executive summary. In consultation with the District Collector,

Pathanamthitta, the public hearing was fixed at 11.00 am on 10.03.2011 at the

conference hall of the District Collectorate at Pathanamthitta. The time and venue

was fixed considering the lack of adequate facilities near the proposed airport and

the convenience, facilities available and ease of travel to the District Collectorate,

Pathanamthitta. The publications regarding the time, date and venue of the public

hearing were made on 06.02.2011. iv) However, due to the declaration on 01.03.2011 of the elections to the

Kerala State Legislative Assembly on 13.04.2011, the date of public hearing had to

be rescheduled by the District Collector with approval from the Election Commission.

The public hearing was postponed to 29.04.2011 and publication was made in the

same dailies on 27.03.2011 about the new date of public hearing at the same time

and at the same venue as earlier notified. On account of a sudden call for hartal in

Pathanamthitta on 29.04.2011, the public hearing had to be postponed further and it

was decided to hold it on 10.05.2011 at 11.00 AM at the Conference Hall of District

Collectorate, Pathanamthitta. This postponement was also published on 28.04.2011

in the same dailies. There have been no complaints made by anyone regarding the

public hearing and its postponements at any time before these appeals have been

filed before this Tribunal. Neither the appellant before this Tribunal nor anyone else

had approached the KSPCB stating that they needed additional time to file their

objections, collect materials etc., Neither were there any complaints made

whatsoever by anyone that the venue fixed for the public hearing was inconvenient,

unsuitable or against the norms prescribed. These allegations have been raised for

the first time at the appellate stage by appellants who had not even participated in

the public hearing process. v) In the EIA Notification, 2006 issued by the Government of India, Clause 7

deals with the stages in the Prior Environmental Clearance Process. Stage III deals

with Public Consultation. A reading of the above would make it clear that one of the

components is that the public hearing should be held in the vicinity of the project for

ascertaining concerns of local affected persons and the other component is obtaining

responses in writing from other concerned persons having a plausible stake in the

environmental aspects of the project. 30 days time is mandated for "other affected

persons" to send in their responses and not for "local affected persons" to attend the

public hearing as argued by the appellants. The provisions under Clause 3.1

stipulates that the Member Secretary of the KSPCB shall finalize the date, time and

venue of the public hearing and advertise the same in one major national leading

and one regional vernacular daily. Thereafter, it is provided that a minimum notice

period of thirty days shall be provided to the public for furnishing their responses.

Clause 3.3 stipulates that the postponements of date, time and venue if necessitated

shall be published in the same national and regional dailies. The provisions under

Clause 3.4 stipulate that the postponements shall be notified afresh as per the

procedure under Clause 3.1. It is therefore clear that what is provided in the

notification of 2006 is that the public hearing shall be conducted for ascertaining the

views of the local affected persons and a minimum time of thirty days shall be given

for other concerned persons to file their responses. Clause 3.4 does not mandate

that in the case of postponement a further period of thirty days has to be granted for

the public hearing. It only stipulates that if there is postponement of time, venue and

date it shall be published in the same manner as provided in Clause 3.1, namely

publication through the same dailies which originally published the notice. In the

instant case a total of 85 days was available for any concerned persons to file their 183 written responses while the Notification only prescribes a minimum period of thirty

days for such objections. The period of thirty days if not remotely intended for

anyone to make travel plans to the venue of the public hearing which in this case

was in the same District at the District Headquarters in Pathanamthitta under fifteen

kilometers from the Project site and very well connected to and from the vicinity of

the Project site and from elsewhere. This is in conformity to Clause III (ii) (a) which

stipulates public hearing at the site or in its close proximity, district wise. In the

instant case, the public hearing was conducted in the same District at its

Headquarters. The KSPCB also factored in the stipulation of time limits to complete

the public hearing as set out in the Notification. If the KSPCB was found wanting, the

Regulatory Authority has ample powers reserved to conduct the public hearing

through any other agency as provided in Clause III. (iv) of the Notification. The fact

that the procedure adopted by the KSPCB was not found fault with by the Regulatory

Authority leads further credence to the legality of the public hearing process adopted

by the KSPCB. Having not complained about the inconvenience or prejudice

suffered by the appellants at any time before, such contentions are raised now and

hence, this contention put forth in respect of the public hearing conducted by the

KSPCB deserves to be dismissed. vi) The issues and concerns raised during the public hearing were actually

noted in the minutes of the meeting and all such issues and concerns were

answered satisfactorily by the project proponent. Only after carefully examining and

after obtaining necessary additional information, final EIA, minutes of the public

hearing and due deliberations, the EAC recommended for the EC and after

considering all parameters, the 1st respondent/MoEF granted EC subject to certain

environmental safeguards. The MoEF, after making a thorough scrutiny of the EAC 184 report and also all the materials made available and satisfied that it was a fit case for

granting EC. Accordingly, the 1st respondent/MoEF issued the EC in favour of the 3 rd

respondent/project proponent for setting up the airport project. Hence, the appeals

have to be rejected as devoid of merits. vii) It is specifically pleaded case of the appellants that the public hearing

conducted in respect of the impugned airport project of the 3 rd respondent/project

proponent was not in accordance with law and hence the EC is liable to be set aside

on that ground. Contrarily, it is contended by the respondents that the public hearing

was conducted strictly in accordance with law. The EIA Notification, 2006 on the

public hearing mandates as follows: Clause 1.0 in Appendix IV of the notification clearly lays down the guidelines

in relation to the conduct of public hearing as follows: Apart from the above, the project proponent should give copies of the draft

EIA report with generic structure given in Appendix III including the summary of EIA

report in English and in the local languages prepared strictly in accordance with the

ToR after scoping. 156. As could be seen from the available materials made available by the 5th

respondent/project proponent, a notice of public hearing was published on

06.02.2011 announcing the date as 10.03.2011. On 10.03.2011, it was informed by

the District Collector, Pathanamthitta that the hearing was adjourned to 29.04.2011.

Even on 29.04.2011 also, the public hearing was not conducted. Admittedly, the

public hearing was conducted on 10.05.2011. 157. A careful scrutiny of the available materials would clearly indicate that

the public hearing conducted on 10.05.2011 was not in accordance with law and has

to be declared as invalid in the eye of law for more reasons than one 158. Appendix IV of the EIA Notification, 2006 as seen above specifically

mandates that the public hearing should be arranged in a systematic, time bound

and transparent manner ensuring widest possible participation. The words 'widest

possible public participation' are of wide import and necessarily include people who

are likely to be affected by the environmental degradation due to the proposed

airport project to be setup at Aranmula. At the very least, the public hearing should

include the people living within the study area. Needless to say, the exclusion of

people within the study area from effective participation is contrary to the EIA

Notification, 2006. This position is emphasized by cardinal judgments of the Hon'ble

Apex Court and other higher Courts speaking on the principles of sustainable

development and precautionary principle. In the instant case, no material is 186 available to indicate the issuance of any notice or information that the public hearing

was to be conducted on 10.05.2011 though it is claimed that it was published in the

newspapers. Materials of the public hearing in the instant case would show that only

80 persons participated in the public hearing and the entire proceedings were

concluded within two hours. Admittedly, the public hearing was conducted at the

Collectorate, Pathanamthitta which is situate at a distance of 15 km from the project

site. Concedely, the public hearing on 29.04.2011 was postponed to 10.05.2011 on

which date the public hearing was conducted. This would clearly indicate that it is in

violation of EIA Notification, 2006 in respect of the mandatory time required to hold

public hearing even in a case of postponement from the original date as per Clause

3.3. of Annexure IV of the EIA Notificaion, 2006 as read above. 159. Thus, from the above position it is clear that the EIA Notification, 2006

mandates even in the case of postponement of the date, the procedure as laid down

in Clause 3(1) has to be followed, which would mean that the time interval between

the announced date and postponed date should be 30 days. Thus, the minimum

mandatory time of 30 days should be provided. But, in the instant case, the date of

public hearing from 29.04.2011 was postponed to 10.05.2011 which is in violation of

the mandatory provisions. Thus, it would be quite clear that instead of taking

measures for the public to participate effectively in the public hearing process, the

public has been prevented from participating in the public hearing process to voice

their concern and place their objections on the environmental issues by not

following the mandatory procedure. It is a case, where there were serious protests

held by the people of that area. The procedure followed in the instant case by not

following the mandatory provisions in respect of place and notice, the public was

denied and deprived of effective participation in the public hearing and the same 187 would vitiate the proceedings and this can also be added as a ground to scrap the

impugned EC. 160. Therefore, it is held that the entire public hearing proceedings is vitiated

in view of violations of mandatory procedure as envisaged in EIA Notification, 2006. 161. Point No. 5: Whether the EC granted to the 4th respondent, M/s. Aranmula

International Airport Private Limited by the 1 st respondent/MoEF is liable to be set

aside for non application of mind of the EAC in making the approval. i) Advancing the arguments on behalf of the appellants Shri T. Mohan, the

learned counsel would submit that the EIA report contained, incorrect, false and

misleading data, but the same were accepted by the 1 st respondent/MoEF which

resulted in granting the impugned EC. The non application of mind and lack of

diligence both on the part of the EAC and the MoEF/1st respondent is clear from the

materials placed by the respondents. The available materials would clearly indicate

that the EAC at all stages during the consideration of the project in question was

overburdened and over extended by having to consider scores of projects during

each of the meetings. During the meeting on 21/22.09.2011, the present project

figured as item No.4.42. The EAC considered 4 old projects, 45 new projects, 5

recommended projects and one other item. On 15/16.10.2011, the present project is

shown as item No. 3.2. In that said meeting, the MoEF considered 4 old projects, 15

new projects, 4 extra items and 12 recommended projects. During the meeting, the

instant project was provisionally cleared subject to compliance of 3 conditions

mentioned therein. In the meeting held on 16-17th August, 2012, the EAC considered

more than 50 proposals. There is nothing to indicate whether any sub committee

was formed to consider this controversial project in teeth of several serious 188 allegations against the project proponent in the interregnum between the EAC

meetings. This would be indicative of the fact that the EAC could not have

considered any project with required diligence since they were functioning under

severe constraints. The EAC has not taken note of the fact the project proponent had

provided different claims even on data collection. At page No. 9 of EIA, it was

claimed that the baseline data was collected during July-October, 2010. But, at page

No. 16, the collection of base line data was shown as October, 2010. At page No.

45, it was claimed that the majority of data on water quality, vegetation, air and noise

quality were collected during field studies in August-October 2010. But, it was

claimed that the AAQ monitoring was carried out during July-October, 2010 at page

No.73. The runway length was shown differently; originally as 2300 m and

subsequently shown as 2800 m. But, an aircraft cannot land and take off with the

runway lengths of 2300 m or 2800 m. Nowhere, there is any mention about what

would be the length of runway in Phase-II. The terminal design in Phase I was stated

to be for 60 incoming and 60 outgoing passengers during peak hours at page 2, 21,

22 of the EIA. But, contrarily at page No. 23, it was shown that design during Phase -I as 50 incoming and 50 outgoing passengers. Table 2.8.2 provided water

requirement at 12 KLD in Phase-I and 58 KLD in Phase-II while Figure 2.3 provided

7.55 KLD in Phase-I and 31KLD in Phase-II. The EIA provided different claim in

respect of STP capacity. Figure 2.2.3 at page No. 24 differs from Figure 2.6.2 at

page No. 29 for parking. ii) Even in respect of the land use, at page No.28 of EIA it is stated that the

lands were unclassified. But, contrarily at page No. 97, it states as an airport zone.

The entire EIA was confined to 10 km radius of the site beginning at page No. 15,

Figure 1.8. But, at page No. 10 in the topographic map it was shown as 15 km. It is 189 pertinent to point out that Chapter IV of the MoEF's Environmental Impact

Assessment Guidance Manual for airports requires that secondary data is to be

collected within 15 km aerial distance for parameters at 9 (III) of Form I of the EIA

Notification. No attempts were made to measure emission from aircraft as required in

page No. 17 (4.4) of the sector manual. The AAQ standards mentioned in Table 3.9

at page No. 73 of EIA were of the year 1998. But, they have been replaced by more

stringent standards on 18.11.2009. A reading of the EIA would indicate that

substantial portions were devoted to sewage treatment, solar lighting, and other

peripheral issues and their likely impacts. Even blank is noticed at page No. 22 in the

EIA report which reads "the city of...................is located ..." There was no

discussion on how the hazardous waste was to be handled and the solid waste

generation was understood to be 27 kg/day. It is clear that the EIA proceeded on the

basis that it was a factory which fact would be clear at page No. 102 (4.4.8) while

discussing 'within the plant building' and at the nearest plant boundary at page No.

102 (4.4.6). The non-application of mind on the part of the MoEF is evident since it

has acted on a EIA which was prepared by the consultant who was neither qualified

to prepare the EIA report for the airport project nor was an accredited consultant and

was also not entitled to either prepare the EIA or represent the project proponent at

the EAC meeting. The EAC has also taken note of the fact that the public hearing

was not proceeded in accordance with the mandate as found the EIA Notification,

2006. The project site was environmentally sensitive and diverse supportive to flora

and fauna and any disturbance to maintain the ecological balance would lead to the

loss of irreplaceable resource. This fact was not taken into consideration by the EIA.

The EIA had no information on animals in the area which was pointed out by the

Salim Ali Foundation report. But, the same has been disregarded by the 1 st 190 respondent/MoEF on flimsy grounds. No attention was paid to rehabilitation and

resettlement though the land acquisition was contemplated in the project. The project

in question would affect the water flow in the area due to blocking of the water

bodies. It is pertinent to point out that the website of the project proponent stated

that the Aranmula airport is an international airport when the EIA report at page No.1

stated as domestic airport. Thus, most of the information on which clearance was

given was relying on self serving assertions made by the project proponent. No

reasoning is given why EAC did not undertake a site visit or required in-depth third

party verification on the claim made by the project proponent when there was a

threat to bio-diversity, wetland area and in particular, when EIA did not provide

adequate information to reach a conclusion on the allegedly benign nature of the

project. The EIA report did not assess the impact of proposed activity on land, water,

area and did not provide details of those as mandated by law. A mere reading of the

EIA would make it apparent that it has not considered or assessed any impact

whatsoever, both during construction and operational phases. In respect of each

parameter of the EIA report, contains not more than 4 sentences, which is

demonstrative of the manner in which the entire exercise has been carried out. This

would clearly speak as to the inadequacy of the EIA report. But, the respondents

have no explanation to offer on all or any of the matters. iii) The learned counsel would further submit that the EIA report contained

many false and misleading data and the entire report was a farce which should have

been rejected by the MoEF. A mere perusal of the Form No. I submitted by the

project proponent would indicate that the project proponent suppressed the material

facts before the MoEF. The facts that were sought to be furnished in the application

as essential for MoEF to come to the conclusion are necessarily to be provided so as 191 to come to an independent conclusion about the environmental impact. In the said

process, the role of the State Government was that of an agency that is expected to

assist the MoEF in coming to a fair and correct decision with regard to the

environment impact. The State Government is expected to provide necessary factual

and legal inputs so that the MoEF could analyse various aspects of the matter to

ascertain whether the claim of the proponent was correct or not. But in the instant

case, the State Government has not pointed out the suppression of material facts by

the project proponent nor submitted actual facts before the MoEF. The project

proponent has suppressed several material facts and has also made false

statements which have direct and serious bearing on the outcome of the

proceedings of the MoEF in granting EC. In the application, the project proponent

has stated that there were no Government orders or policies relevant to the site in

question when it required exemption under Kerala Land Reforms Act and Kerala

Paddy Land and Wetland Act for utilizing the property. The project proponent has

stated in the application that there were no permanent change in the land use, land

cover and topography including increased intensity of land use. But, the instant

project can be implemented only by converting the paddy land and wetland by filling

the same. The project proponent has stated that there was no reclamation work in

the project when he admitted to the reclamation of paddy land and wetlands. The

project proponent has also made a wrong statement that there were absolutely no

changes in the water bodies or the land surface affecting the drainage or runoff.

These false statements were made when the land required reclamation and the

same would seriously affect the water containment of that area affecting the

drainage. The project proponent has falsely stated in the application that there was

absolutely no land undeveloped or agricultural. It is an admitted fact that except the 192 area 42 acres filled illegally by the predecessor of the proponent when the land

remained undeveloped and the same included agricultural land also. In so far as the

environment sensitivity was concerned, the project proponent has stated that there

are no areas to be protected under international convention, national or local

legislation for their ecological landscape, agricultural or other related value. This

false statement was made when the entire area was declared as a heritage site by

the United Nations and there was Kerala Paddy land and Wetland Act as far as the

ecological landscape value of the property was concerned. The project proponent

further stated that the area is not occupied by manmade land uses such as hospitals,

schools, places of worship etc., It is pertinent to point out that Aranmula

Parthasarathy temple is situate within 100 m from the boundary of the proposed site

and less than 400 m from the runway of the proposed airport. There are other

hospitals, schools, etc., situate adjacent to the property in question. The project

proponent has stated that the area does not contain important high quality or scarce

resources such as ground water, surface water source, forestry, agriculture,

fisheries, tourism, minerals etc., and the area is not subjected to pollution or

environmental damage, when the reports of the officials of the State Government

show that the illegal filling of 42 acres of land had already caused damage to the

environment. Thus, not only the project proponent has made false statement but also

the State Government officials have failed to point out the same and instead of

pointing out the above, they have connived with the project proponent before the

MoEF. iv) The counsel would further add that as far as the nature of the land is

concerned, from the materials available and from the stand taken by the project

proponent, as well as the State Government, it can be see that major portion of the 193 land in question is either paddy or wetland. The only contentions put forth by the

project proponent and the State Government is that the paddy land cannot be

considered as the wetland and since there was no cultivation in the land for so many

years, the lands remain shallow. Hence, the question to be considered is that

whether there would be any environmental impact, even assuming that the shallow

land was reclaimed and whether such reclamation would have an adverse impact in

the remaining paddy land of that area. This is the most important criteria fixed by the

Legislature in Kerala Conservation of Paddy land and Wetland Act for granting

permission to fill paddy land or wetland. The officers of the revenue and agricultural

departments of the Government of Kerala categorically stated that the reclamation of

42 acres of land has already caused serious damage to the cultivation in the

adjacent paddy land. When such is the situation, there should have been a proper

study conducted by the MoEF before granting clearance for setting up the airport

with permission to reclaim paddy or wetland or shallow land. From the EC, it could

be seen that the airport cannot be set up without reclaiming the land. There are

disputes regarding the extent of land required to be filled. But, it is an admitted fact

that reclamation was required. Even if the permission is granted by the MoEF for

reclamation of land, the project proponent cannot reclaim the land without getting

permission under the Kerala Paddy Land and Wetland Act . If such permission for

reclamation is to be granted under section 10 of the said Act, recommendation of the

Local Level Monitoring Committee with the report of the State Level Committee

constituted under the Act stating that no alternate land is available and such

conversion or reclamation will not adversely affect the cultivation of paddy in the

adjoining paddy land and also ecological condition in the area. In so far as the

alternative land is concerned, the proponent has admitted in the Application made in 194 Form I that it did not propose for an alternate land. It is pertinent to point out that the

Local Level Monitoring Committee has already reported to the Government that the

illegal reclamation of 42 acres of paddy land has already caused serious damage to

ecological conditions and has adversely affected the paddy cultivation in that area

and has reported further that any further reclamation will have serious adverse

impact on cultivation. Without considering the same, the MoEF has granted the EC,

thereby permitting the project proponent to fill the paddy and wetland. No

independent study was conducted on the nature of the land and environment impact

the reclamation might cause, but permission was granted for reclamation. From the

minutes of the EAC and order of the MoEF granting the EC, it is clear that both the

bodies have not applied their mind independently and have not collected any inputs

so as to arrive at a proper decision. The authorities simply relied on the data

provided by the project proponent and the State Government, but have not taken any

step to independently verify the veracity of the claim. The minutes of the meeting of

the EAC and the order of the MoEF would reveal that they have simply reiterated the

contentions of the project proponent as well as the State Government believing the

entire version as true and thus it would be quite clear that the EC has been granted

without assessing the actual environment impact since sufficient materials were not

placed to ascertain the same. From the report of the 5 th respondent/Enviro Care

India Pvt. Ltd., the agency which was entrusted with the study of environment

impact, it could be seen that that no study whatsoever, was made about the adverse

impact on environment or the reclamation might cause. But, it is admitted that the

main engagement of the people in the locality was paddy cultivation. If the

reclamation affects the paddy cultivation of the locality, the project cannot be allowed

at all. The fact that the temples protected by the Archeological Department of the 195 State Government as well as the Central Government exist nearby the site was

suppressed by the project proponent. No study whatsoever has been conducted to

assess the impact that might have on Aranmula Parthasarathy temple if the

proposed airport is set up. Admittedly, the said temple is 1500 years old and is

situate in less than 400 m from the runway of the proposed airport. High frequency

sound of the aircraft would break vibration that is created while chanting mantras

which creates a molecular ordained system and in consequence it would have

serious impact to the divinity of the temple. The structure of the temple is very

ancient architecture with heritage value and this structure would be damaged due to

the noise created by the aircraft. The temple mast is situated in the flight path and

very near to the runway. If the height of the temple mast is reduced or lighting is

done to the temple mast, it would seriously affect the religious sentiments of

thousands of devotees of the temple and would adversely affect the divinity of the

temple. Thus, there would be absolutely no material available before the MoEF to

come to an independent conclusion about the environmental impact the project

might cause. v) An affidavit has been filed by the Director General of Police/Kerala before

the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala in a petition filed to quash the First Information

Report registered in the vigilance case initiated against the project proponent and the

officials of the State Government, from which it can be seen that serious irregularities

have been committed by the State Government officials and the project proponent

which include suppression of material facts and forgery of documents for obtaining

the EC. It is pertinent to note that the project proponent has not even acquired the

title of the lands in question and the Taluk Land Board has already initiated

proceedings under the Kerala Land Reforms Act to take possession of the lands in 196 question treating the same as excess lands. The documents by which the project

proponent has purchased the land itself is void as per the provisions of the Kerala

Land Reforms Act . Thus, there was absolutely no justification in the action of the

MoEF in granting the EC without properly assessing the environment impact the

project might cause and hence, it is liable to be set aside. Thus, appraisal of the

project carried out by the EAC is vitiated due to non-application of mind to relevant

considerations. The minutes of the EAC recommending the grant of EC is in

complete violation of law. The reading of the minutes would show that there was no

detailed scrutiny of the issues involved. 13 aspects were pointed out during the

public hearings which were not even addressed by EAC in its meetings. The EAC

has blindly approved the explanation of the project proponent. In support of his

contentions the learned counsel placed reliance of the Judgments of this Tribunal in

Samata Vs. Union of India and others in Appeal No. 9 of 2011 and the judgment in

Utkarsh Mandal Vs. Union of India of the Delhi High Court in W.P. (Civil).No.

9340/2009. vi) Advancing the arguments on behalf of the 1st respondent/MoEF, the

learned counsel Smt. C. Sangamithirai would submit that the EIA report submitted by

the project proponent was taken for consideration in three meetings of the EAC and

following all the procedural formalities. The EAC after considering the pros and cons,

recommended for EC and the same has been correct and accepted by the 1st

respondent/MoEF and the impugned EC was granted in favour of the 3 rd

respondent/project proponent. The contentions putforth by the appellants are

unfounded and cannot be accepted both factually and legally. The EIA study has

covered the flora and fauna in Chapter 3 of its report. The case in so far as the

contentions of the appellants that the project site included wetland and paddy fields 197 and also that there are public objection to the conversion of the paddy fields and

wetlands, a factual report was sought for from the Environment Department of the

Kerala Government. The project proponent also sent reply on 01.03.2012 stating that

the Government had notified 500 acres of land for development of the airport. There

was no paddy cultivation for more than 10 years. A letter dated 26.06.2012 sent by

the Government of Kerala and approximately 500 acres of land has been declared

as an industrial area by a notification in S.R.O. No. 185/2011 dated 24.02.2011.

Much reliance was placed by the appellants on a report of Salim Ali Foundation to

the effect that there are extensive wetlands in the village. Contrarily, no wetlands

were identified in Aranmula Village as per the report of the Centre for Earth Sciences

which prepared the report for Kerala. As per the definition of the Kerala Conservation

of Paddy and Wetlands Act, 2008, paddy land is not wetland and it is pertinent to

point out that the provisions of the Central Wetland Act are also similar. The project

proponent has informed that the site is not located in the upstream of Vembanad and

neither silent valley nor ecological diversity areas are located anywhere near the site.

The proponent had informed that only minimum area required for runway, apron,

taxiway etc., would be filled and the remaining area would be preserved in its natural

form. The previous owner had filled the runway of 1000 x 150 m for airstrip and

hence, only the area required for runway would be filled with 1 m height and the soil

required for land filling would be met from elevated area of about 14.5 acres

available within the site itself. In order to confirm the statement, all the available

source of soil and a contour map was called for, the same was submitted and the

statement of the project proponent was found to be correct. In this regard, a specific

condition was imposed in the EC. The contentions putforth in respect of rehabilitation

and resettlement is totally unfounded. In view of the letter dated 26.02.2012 that only 198 7 houses in the proposed area might require rehabilitation. vii) Countering the above contentions put forth by the appellants side, that the

EC has been granted by the MoEF without any application of mind and without any

due diligence, the learned counsel for the respondents would submit that the EC has

been granted by MoEF after being satisfied on the recommendations of the EAC

which was done after due consideration of relevant documents submitted by the

project proponent. It is not a case where EC has been granted without conditions.

The EC was issued subject to strict compliance of the terms set forth therein.

Annexure I depicts in paragraph 10, 20 specific conditions and in paragraph 11, 31

general conditions which would clearly indicate the fact that the EC has been

granted only with proper application of mind and due diligence. viii) Arguing for the project proponent, the 3rd respondent namely, M/s. K.G.S.

Aranmula International Airport Ltd., the learned Senior Advocate Shri T.R.

Rajagopalan, would submit that the appellants have contended that the impugned

order has been passed without adequately considering the environmental issues

that arise in the construction of an airport such as the existence of paddy lands, a

minor rivulet flowing through the airfield and the existence of a temple in the vicinity.

A bare perusal of the impugned order would demonstrate that all the concerns

raised by the appellants have already been addressed by the MoEF in the

impugned order. The EC was granted to this respondent after three meetings of the

EAC. Each meeting involved the discussion of fresh issues and the various

concerns raised both in the report and the public hearing. Finally, a series of special

conditions have been imposed on the respondent and the clearance made subject

to the strict compliance with these conditions. These conditions address every issue 199 that has been raised in the present case. Thus, the impugned order has been

passed after much deliberation and careful consideration and the same has taken

into account and adequately addressed all environmental concerns. It is well settled

that this Tribunal does not sit in appeal over the policy decision of whether an airport

is necessary in the region. The State and Central Governments have decided that

there is a need for such an airport and have adequately addressed environmental

concerns through the conditions imposed on the clearance granted. As such, the

present appeals are liable to dismissed in limine. ix) On scrutiny of the entire records made available by both sides, the

following are noticed by the Tribunal which would clearly adumbrate the non-

application of mind and lack of expected diligence on the part of the EAC which

recommended the proposal for the grant of EC by the MoEF to the 3 rd

respondent/project proponent. x) This Bench of NGT had an occasion to consider the role and responsibility

of EAC while recommending an EIA for grant of EC by MoEF in Samata and

another v. The Union of India and others reported in 2014 ALL(I) NGT Reporter

(1)(SZ)1. The relevant portions of the said judgment are extracted below: 46. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Maharashtra State Board of

Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Vs. K.S. Gandhi (1991) 2 SCC 716 has held as follows: 47. The NGT in Appeal No. 20/2013 in Rudresh Naik Vs. Goa

 State Coastal Zone Management Authority has held as follows: 162. The application filed by the project proponent seeking EC in Form I for

the proposed airport did not reveal the true, correct and complete disclosure of 203 factual details and it also suffered by suppression of facts and with false statements

as detailed infra: Para 5.1.1 reads "... by implementing better technology, the factory

can often take advantage of the dual benefits of reduced waste

generation and a more cost efficient operation." Similarly, paragraph 4.4.5 reads, "The increase in traffic density due

to transportation of raw materials and products will be very low by

means of lorries and truckers 120-180 times per month." No doubt, all the above are out of context and irrelevant and

made without any application of mind. Probably, the same might be a

verbatim copy of some other report for a factory or plant. 205 5. As could be seen from the EIA Notification, 2006, there is a mandate for

 the preparation of a draft EIA report initially and after finalization of ToR

 and summing up of such draft EIA report has to be necessarily placed

 during Public Consultation as required under paragraph 7. III - Stage (3).

 In paragraph 7.III(vii) of the EIA Notification, 2006 reads, " After completion

 of public consultation, the applicant shall address all the material

 environmental concerns expressed during this process and make

 appropriate changes in the draft EIA/EMP. The final EIA report so

 prepared shall be submitted by the applicant to the concerned regulatory

 authority for appraisal." The 5th respondent/consultant has categorically

 admitted in his reply that they submitted the EIA report in October, 2010,

 which is only a draft EIA report. The 3 rd respondent/project proponent has

 filed a report which incorporated the minutes of the public hearing details

 which are not only insufficient, but also cannot be termed as final EIA

 report as envisaged above. Thus, in the instant case, no final EIA report

 was ever prepared or submitted by the applicant before the concerned

 regulatory authority. 6. At the time of the public hearing, as seen from the minutes of the hearing

 the local people who participated in the public hearing voiced their

 concerns and objections to the draft EIA report. But, none of the objections

 was addressed in the EIA report. It is pertinent to point out that when those

 objections and concerns were voiced by the participants during the public

 hearing, the 3rd respondent/project proponent had given clear undertaking

 that a detailed EIA study would be conducted later. But, no material was

 placed to indicate that any detailed EIA study was conducted later. Apart 206 from that, the EIA report would show that no such subsequent study was

 conducted. If the undertaking given by the 3 rd respondent/project

 proponent at the stage of public hearing to conduct a detailed EIA study

 was not done, the EAC should have rejected the EIA report as incomplete

 for want of a detailed EIA study. This would also be indicative of non-

 exercise of due diligence on the part of the EAC. The EAC has thoroughly

 forgotten that it could only appraise a final EIA report and nothing less than

 that, since paragraph 7.IV of the EIA Notification, 2006 requires the EAC

 to scrutinize only a final EIA report. 163. Thus, in the instant case, even without a final EIA report, the other

materials were taken up for appraisal and hence, both the appraisal by EAC and

consequent clearance by MoEF have to be termed as faulty. 164. The EIA report did not assess the impact of the proposed activity of the

3rd respondent/project proponent on land, water air, environment and ecology of the

area and it did not provide the required details in these respect as mandated by law,

thereby enabling the EAC to make a scrutiny and take an independent decision on

the issues of environment. The inadequacy of the EIA report is demonstrated by the

fact that it has not considered details about the flora and fauna. The EIA report did

not provide any details about the flora in the region except stating that there are no

endangered species in the area. A report of the Salim Ali Foundation clearly states

that there are more than 212 species of plants. The report also states that there are

more than 60 species of fishes and more than 80 species of birds. But, the EIA

report did not reflect the same. The EIA has not made any attempt, whatsoever to

characterize the ecology of the area including wildlife that inhabits forested lands 207 which required to be cleared for providing a long runway at the proposed airport. The

crucial aspects relating to filling up of paddy lands and its impact on the environment

were not considered though objections were raised in that regard. 165. The EIA report never cared to consider the environmental impacts of

converting Aranmula paddy lands, in particular, the reclamation of those lands and

its consequences. The EAC has not considered the materials placed in respect of

conversion of part of paddy lands which according to the 3 rd respondent/project

proponent the same was done by his predecessor in his interest. But, admittedly, a

number of proceedings were initiated in both and criminal courts and even by

vigilance department of the State of Kerala which were all pending during the

relevant period. It is admitted by the 3rd respondent/project proponent that the entire

are of 500 acres of land required for the airport project and consists of both paddy

lands and wetlands and it is also added by the 3rd respondent/project proponent that

the lands remained shallow for dacades and hence it can be put into better use of

construction of the airport. It is also true that the conversion of the land - both paddy

lands and wetlands already done and proposed to be done are actually the subject

matter of the proceedings before different fora in Kerala State, which fall outside the

jurisdiction of the Tribunal. But, the pendency of those proceedings does not impede

the Tribunal to consider the impact of such conversion and alleged degradation of

environment. In the instant case, admittedly, a part of the paddy fields/wetlands was

converted while the remaining is to be converted by the 3 rd respondent/project

proponent for the proposed airport. The conversion of paddy fields and wetlands, its

impact on the ground water resources in the area, the impact of the rivulet and

streams, namely, Kozhithodu, and Karumaramchaal were never taken into

consideration by the EAC. 166. The EIA report has not spoken anything about the impact of the project

on the displacement of the people as a result of the present project. The EIA report

does not even mention the number of houses in the area or population that will be

displaced as a result of acquisition of the land for the project and the filling up the

wetlands. 167. In so far as the water requirement is concerned, the EIA report under

'2.8.2 Water' states that the total requirement of raw water for the airport is 7. 55

KLD which will be met from own bore wells and municipal water supply. But, it does

not discuss the impact of extraction of water on the water table in the area. The EIA

mentions under '2.3.7 under 'Approach Road' that a four lane approach road with 23

m width is proposed from Aikkara junction to the terminal building for which land

needs to be acquired. Similarly, road from Parumootumpadi junction to Aikkara

junction is also required to be widened for smooth vehicular traffic to the proposed

airport. But, the EIA has not addressed on environment, socio-economic and other

impacts of the said road construction. The contention of the 3 rd respondent that

these roads do not form the part of the proposed airport is not acceptable. Needless

to state that the roads would not be laid in the absence of the airport project and

therefore, the environmental impact of the road laying must have been included in

the EIA report. The EIA at paragraph '2.6(n) Land Use Classification' states that

Government has recognized the location of this project site as unclassified land. But,

the said statement is falsified by the admission of the fact that part of the paddy land

has been filled up. The EIA has given false statements on archeological and cultural

monuments. The EIA in paragraph 2.6(a) reads thus: "The location does not have

any archeological monuments in nearby 10 km radius" and at 2.6 (c) - Cultural

Monuments- This project does not have any cultural monument within the area of 10 209 km radius. It is pertinent to point out that the Aranmula village itself is a heritage

village and got its name from the centuries old Aranmula Parthasarathy Temple

which is dedicated to Lord Sri Krishna. The said temple on the banks of River Pampa

attracts large devotees throughout from India. Entire region is with temples of

importance. The holy Pampa River is described as the boundary of the project site in

EIA, reported. 168. The practice of collecting data even before the finalization of ToR by the

EAC and the communication of the same to the project proponent is untenable in the

eyes of law and it also sends wrong procedural signals. Accepting such a procedure

is bound to set very unhealthy precedent. Instead of deprecating the practice, the

EAC, in the instant case, has given its seal of approval. We direct the concerned

officials of MoEF to take note of this and initiate procedural reform(s) to discourage

this practice. 169. 'Environmental Clearance document' is certainly not a piece of official

note conveying the decision of the authorities to the Project proponent. It is a

document which reflects the intent and policy of governance vis-a-vis the economic

development and natural resources management of the country. Even a cursory

scrutiny of the impugned EC would reveal the mechanical mindset and total lack of

application of mind on the part of the authorities issuing such an important document

of utmost sanctity. We now cite some glaring examples below: 170. The EC issued in the instant case lists two sets of conditions for strict

compliance by the project proponent. While Paragraph 10 lists 20 "Specific

conditions" Paragraph 11 lists 31 'General conditions'. 210 Specific condition 10 - (vi) reads as follows: 171. The above condition refers to the carrying out of Cumulative

Environment Impact Assessment. The instant project namely the airport project in

the proposed site does not require any Cumulative Environment Impact

Assessment study from any angle of environment. No reference to the need for

such a study has been made in any of the documents produced before the Tribunal

by any of the respondents including the MoEF. We have not come across any

indication and mention of it in the minutes of the EAC also. 172. General Condition 11 - (viii) reads as follows: 173. We are shocked to see the imposition of a condition referred to above, to

say the least. We are at a loss to understand the rationale of expecting 'residential

standards of noise' in the airport area. Amazing indeed! 174. General Condition 11 - (ix) reads as follows: 211 175. We wonder whether any observation on the above condition in the

context of "Airport Project" needs to be made by the Tribunal at all. At best, this is an

example of making a mockery of EC conditions. 176. General Condition 11 - (xvi) reads as follows: 177. We find it difficult to see the relationship between the project in question

and the Uttar Pradesh State Pollution Control Board. In our opinion, the officials

responsible for making a blunder as above owe an explanation to their own selves. 178. We are of the considered view that the "conditions" cited above are

typical examples of the (in)famous "Copy and Paste" from the list of

conditions appended to the EC of some other project(s), without any

application of mind and 'non-verification' of the document before placing the

same for signature by the authorized signatory. We direct the MoEF to take

steps to restore the sanctity of important documents such as the EC. 212 179. We have made a scrutiny of the 'Terms of Reference' and also the

subject coverage in the EIA report. In our view, the ToR for EIA are not as

exhaustive and project specific as they should have been. The EAC, whose role is of

great significance in the decision making process, should have demonstrated its

collective wisdom and professional acumen by being more "Project specific" while

framing the ToR. We hope that the EAC would note this for future reference. 180. The proposal in respect of the airport project of the 3 rd

respondent/project proponent was taken up for consideration by the EAC in its 107 th

meeting held on 15th and 16th of December 2011. The relevant part is found in

paragraph 3.2 which reads as follows: The Committee recommends the proposal for EC after submission of

 the information at (i) to (iii) to Ministry with the above conditions in the

 clearance letter for strict compliance by the project proponent. 181. A reading of the above would make it abundantly clear that it is bereft of

reasons either for negativing the objections and concerns in the public hearing nor

for accepting the response, information and clarifications provided by the project

proponent. What are all stated is the gist of the original application of the project, the

main issues raised at the public hearing and except the above, it was recorded that

there was submission of response by the project proponent to the issues raised and

based on information and clarifications, the Committee recommended the project for

EC subject to the specific conditions stated therein. 182. It is not in controversy that at the time of public hearing many objections

and concerns were raised and the same were also recorded in the minutes of the

public hearing. As rightly pointed out by the learned counsel for the appellants, all

issues raised at the time of public hearing were not even stated in the above

recordings of the minutes. The detailed scrutiny as required by the notification in

order to make an evaluation of the project has not been done since there is nothing

to indicate in the minutes of the meeting that in respect of the issues raised at the

time of public hearing in respect of each issue i.e., objections raised at the public 214 hearing and what was the correspondence and clarification made by Project

Proponent thereon and why and for what reasons those objections were negatived

and the clarifications of the project proponent were accepted. Thus, the Tribunal is

able to notice a thorough failure on the part of the EAC in performing its duty of

proper consideration and evaluation of the project by making a detailed scrutiny

before approving the same. The contentions put forth by the learned counsel for the

respondents that number of specific condition were stipulated by the EAC at the

time of recommendation and without proper consideration of both objections and

concerns at the time of providing and proper responses made by the Project

Proponent, those conditions could not have been stipulated cannot be

countenanced. It is true that the EAC while recommending the project for the grant

of EC has stipulated conditions. Mere stipulation of specific conditions ipso facto

cannot be an answer, while the minutes recorded above clearly indicate that there

was no appraisal wherein an evaluation by detailed scrutiny of the project is

required as per the mandatory provisions of EIA Notification, 2006. The Central

Government, in its wisdom thought it fit and necessary and circumstances also

warranted issuance of the EIA Notification, 2006 superseding the earlier

Notification, 1990 whereby EAC has been constituted for all projects in Category A

and SEAC for Category B for the purpose of screening, scoping and appraisal of

the projects.. The EAC is constituted consisting of a Chairman and number of

members who are experts from different fields only with the sole objective of

national interest in order to ensure establishment of new projects or expansion of

already existing activity without affecting the ecological and environmental

conditions. Thus, a duty is cast upon the EAC or SEAC as the case may be to apply

the cardinal and Principle of Sustainable Development and Principle of Precaution 215 while screening, scoping and appraisal of the projects or activities. While so, it is

evident in the instant case that the EAC has miserably failed in the performance of

its duty not only as mandated by the EIA Notification, 2006, but has also

disappointed the legal expectations from the same. For a huge project as the one in

the instant case, the consideration for approval has been done in such a cursory

and arbitrary manner even without taking note of the implication and importance of

environmental issues. On the same day the EAC took for appraisal not only the

airport project in question, but also other projects which would be indicative of the

haste and speedy exercise of its function of appraisal of the project. It castes a

doubt that whether the EAC would have accepted the response made by the Project

Proponent in respect of the objections and concerns raised at the time of public

hearing as a Gospel Truth. Thus, the EAC has not conducted itself as mandated by

the EIA Notification, 2006 since it has not made proper appraisal by considering the

available materials and objections in order to make proper evaluation of the project

before making a recommendation for grant of EC. 183. The EAC is a High Level Committee entrusted with the task of

evaluating the projects, which exercise it has to do with its wisdom, experience and

expertise of the members. Needless to say, while doing that exercise for such

evaluation, the Committee should keep wider interest of the nation as paramount in

its mind. A duty is cast upon the EAC to strike a balance between the development

on one side and ecology and environment on the other, thereby ensuring larger

interest of the society of the State. While such vital and indispensable task is

entrusted with the fervent hope and expectation, shirking of responsibility in a hasty

or evasive manner would not only be against the objective of its constitution, but

also defeats the purpose for which the Committee is functioning. Where a particular 216 point is not decided unanimously, specific noting should be prepared and scientific

reasons for accepting the majority view should be recorded and maintained for

future reference. It should not be forgotten by the EAC that either the acceptance or

rejection of a proposal should be the result of a proper and purposeful exercise on

the recommendations of which the regulatory authority can safely act and take a

correct decision thereon. 184. The learned counsel for the respondents in their final attempt of getting a

support of the Doctrine of Sustainable Development would submit that the Aranmula

airport project is one of the national importance whose approval will lead to a large

development to the State of Kerala directly and indirectly. The airport project, if

allowed to be set up as approved, would play a vital role in industrial development

and commercial trade and it would offer crucial services for transport of goods and

passengers. Apart from that, it would be useful for domestic and international

tourism when limitation of time is a key factor. It would play as catalyst to economic

development. In turn, it would generate demand for the former. The people of

Kerala would like to have modern infrastructure in the State with least disturbance to

environment. The State Government representing the public interest has supported

and lent its full favour for this project. This project would be an employment

generating development which in turn would be a boon to the educated and

unemployed in the State and this would be welcomed in a larger public interest of

Kerala and economic interests of the country as a whole. In the instant case,

environmental issues were fully taken up both by EAC and also MoEF. On being

satisfied with the project and finally MoEF accepting the recommendations made by

the EAC, has granted the EC. Had not the objections and concerns raised by the

public been considered, by the MoEF, number of specific and special conditions in 217 respect of the environmental issued could not have been attached to the EC. This

fact would be indicative of the consideration of all environmental and ecological

issues and hence the EC has got to be upheld. 185. It is not as if the Tribunal is unmindful of its duty that a balance has to be

struck between ecology and development in order to uphold the principles of

sustainable development and precautionary principle as envisaged under section 20 of the NGT Act, 2010. Needless to say, striking a balance between the ecology and

development is a difficult task. But, at the same time, it cannot be forgotten that for

one's sake other should not be sacrificed. A balance has to be struck whereby a

compromise is made in order to achieve the development without causing

environmental degradation and damaging ecology. Ordinarily, the contention

putforth by the learned counsel for the appellants that if not the environmental

issues and concerns were not considered, the conditions specified in respect of the

particular project would not have been attached to the EC. But, in the instant case,

all mandatory principles and guidelines as envisaged by the EIA Notification, 2006

have been violated by (1) Form I along with the application for EC. (2) incompetency

of the consultant who prepared the EIA which is the basis for the grant of EC, (3)

public hearing and public consultation and (4) non-application of mind and lack of

due diligence. 186. In a democracy like ours, all natural resources are wealth of the country

and in the custody of the State as a Trustee. They are all meant for public use and

enjoyment and the public at large is the beneficiary of the same. The State as a

Trustee is under legal obligation to protect them. We hope that the recommending 218 body EAC and the regulatory agency MoEF are aware of the above concept of public

trust and issue clearance for the development projects in tune with this concept. 187. Under such circumstances, the Tribunal is of the considered opinion that

there is no option but to scrap the impugned EC granted by the MoEF to the 3 rd

respondent/project proponent for setting up the Aranmula airport. 188. In the result, the appeal Nos. 172-174 of 2013 (SZ) and 1 and 19 of 2014

(SZ) are allowed granting only the following reliefs. 189. It is declared: 190. In all other respects, the appeals are dismissed and all connected

MAs are closed. The parties to bear their respective cost. Before concluding, the Tribunal feels it fit and necessary to record its

appreciation for the effective and efficacious assistance rendered by M/s. T. Mohan,

A. Yogeshwaran, Ashok M. Cherian, K. Janardhan Shenoy, R. Krishnaraj, Ramesh

Kumar Chopra, Ranjith Thamban, Senior Advocate, Rema Smrithi, Mallika

Srinivasan and Jacob Alex, Advocates appeared for the appellants and M/s. K.P.

Dhandapani, Advocate General, State of Kerala, T.R. Rajagopalan, Senior

Advocate, P.S.Raman, Senior Advocate, Pushpa Menon, C. Sangamithirai,

Standing Counsel for MoEF, Rohan D. Alexander, Government Pleader, State of

Kerala, M. Ajay, Sathish Parasaran, Suvitha. A.S., Special Government Pleader,

State of Kerala appeared for respondents for adjudicating the matters. (Justice M. Chockalingam)
 Judicial Member

 (Prof. Dr. R. Nagendran)
 Expert Member

Chennai,
28th May 2014 220 221