By means of this application the applicant Aryan Bhati @ Firoz Khan has prayed to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 1999 of 2021, u/s 420, 406, 376, 506, 120-B I.P.C ., P.S. Sihani Gate, District Ghaziabad. Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned AGA representing the State. Perused the record. Learned counsel for the applicant argued that the applicant is innocent. He has been falsely implicated in this very case crime number and he is languishing in jail since 10.3.2021. There is no likelihood of applicant's fleeing from course of justice or tempering with evidence in case he is released on bail. Initially, report was got lodged for offence punishable under Section 406 IPC and four persons were accused there. Transfer of money through Paytm in the tune of Rs. 10,80000/-, was there. But subsequently, in the statement recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., it came to be a payment of Rs. 50000/-, only. Rest of the payment of golden rings is to Vishal. The applicant was said to be under friendship since last 2 to 3 years. Subsequently, this relationship could not be continued. This false case got registered. There is no support of accusation in medical report. There is no specific date of payment of money. It is a mere concocted case. Applicant is of no criminal antecedent. Hence bail has been prayed for. Learned counsel for the informant as well as learned AGA has vehemently opposed this bail application with this contention that FIR was got lodged with contention made by victim- informant in her statement recorded under Sections 161 as well as 164 of Cr.P.C . But it was got lodged only for offence punishable under Section 406 IPC. Subsequently, during the investigation, other sections were added. Applicant is Aryan Bhati @ Firoz Khan, whereas in bail rejection, name is only Firoz Khan son of Shokeen, is itself a camouflage. He is Aryan Bhati @ Firoz Khan mentioned his relationship with informant Divyanshi by projecting himself as Aryan Bhati. Later on, he was held to be Rishabh Sharma. Then after, it came to notice that he was Firoz Khan. Meaning thereby, the offence of misrepresentation, under deceit is very well there from the conduct of accused itself. He has moved application in the name of Firoz Khan before Session Judge whereas, this application is as Aryan Bhati @ Firoz Khan, is under deceit and misrepresentation. In case of his release, there is every likelihood that he will not be available because Aryan Bhati may not be Firoz Khan. The name appears to be under deceit and fraud. His other name is Rishabh Sharma. This action is a misdeed, making a camouflage. The accusation of rape is there in the statements recorded under Sections 161 and 164 of Cr.P.C. Snatching of golden rings as well as money, under the threat of blackmailing by applicant through Paytm and bank account, is very well there and evidence regarding it was collected by Investigating Officer. It is not a simple case of criminal breach of trust. Rather, a case, wherein, applicant impersonated himself as Aryan Bhati developed friendship with victim Divyanshi, then after, at different times changed his name and finally it came to notice that he was not of Hindu religion corresponding the name of Aryan Bhati or Rishabh Sharma but Firoz Khan, a Muslim. Hence, under above facts and circumstances and scenario of such type of offences, under corporate planning, there is every likelihood of tampering with evidence and fleeing from the course of justice. Hence, this bail be rejected. Having heard learned counsel for both sides and gone thorough the material placed on record, it is apparent that initial contention of informant Divyanshi was that a friend request was sent by present applicant in the name of Aryan Bhati over facebook and informant got it verified from her friend Pooja, who narrated about the acquaintance with Aryan Bhati. Then after, this friend request was accepted but this Aryan Bhati camouflage and misrepresented himself to be Aryan Bhati. Then after, this all sequence of offences are there on different times. Payment of money through Paytm is there. The offence of rape is there in the statements recorded under Sections 161 and 164 of Cr.P.C. Considering all those facts and circumstances, heinousness of offence of rape, the scenario of present type of offences prevailing wherein, under the religious influence such camouflaging and then after nefarious activities including rape, change of religion are being performed, the different names said at different places like in bail application before the Session Judge and in bail application before this Court, written as above, but without commenting on the merit of case, no ground for bail is there. Accordingly, rejected. This bail application stands disposed of. Order Date :- 8.7.2021
 
Kamarjahan