01 The aforesaid appeal has been filed by Young Indian [ in
 short 'YI'] , appellant-assessee against impugned order
 dated 26.10.2017, passed by the ld. CIT(Exemption), New
 Delhi, cancelling the registration u/s. 12AA(3) of the
 Income-tax Act, 1961[ In short " The Act '] , granted earlier ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 2 to the assessee u/s. 12A r.w.s. 12AA, vide certificate dated
 09.05.2011 w.e.f. assessment year 2011-12.
02 In the grounds of appeal, the appellant assessee has raised
 following grounds: 03 Before us, during the course of marathon hearing, four
 volumes of paper books on behalf of the appellant-assessee
 have been filed, along with two separate sets of paper ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 3 books of additional evidences, one filed during the course
 of arguments and other during the course of rejoinder
 submissions. On behalf of the department, two sets of
 paper books have been filed along with a statement giving
 dates and evident of various stages. Besides this, various
 documents and judgments were also filed from both the
 sides. All the submissions and relevant documents that are
 germane to the issue involved shall be discussed
 hereinafter. Brief facts and background of the case: 04 The appellant, Young Indian was incorporated as a
 company on 23.11.2010 u/s. 25 of the Companies Act,
 1956. It applied for registration u/s. 12A r/w section 12AA on 31.03.2010. It was granted registration by then DIT
 (Exemption), New Delhi vide order/certificate dated
 09.05.2011 w.e.f. assessment year 2011-12. As a prelude,
 certain vital events precursor to grant of registration u/s.
 12AA and antecedent to application for registration us
 12AA need to be elaborated which are germane to the issue
 involved. 05 Assessee had filed an application for incorporation of a
 company u/s. 25 of the Companies Act, 1956 on
 14.10.2010. Memorandum of Association was subscribed
 by two Directors, namely, Mr. Suman Dubey, having 550
 equity shares, and Mr. Satyan Gangaram Pitroda (Sam ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 4 Pitroda) with 550 equity shares. License u/s. 25 of the
Companies Act, 1956 was granted to YI on 23.11.2010.
Later on, both the Directors transferred their shares to Mr.
Oscar Fernandes and Mrs. Sonia Gandhi; and Mr. Sam
Pitroda and Suman Dubey were appointed as Directors of a
company, M/s Associated Journals Limited (herein referred
to as 'AJL') on 21.12.2010. On 13.12.2010, Mr. Rahul
Gandhi was appointed as Director of YI, who acquired 1900
shares resulting in 36% stake in YI; and later on, Mrs.
Sonia Gandhi became the director on 22.01.2011 having
36% of stakes with 1900 shares. Another relevant fact to
this chain of events is that various loans were advanced by
All India Congress Committee [ In short 'The AICC"] to AJL
from time to time and as on 31.03.2010, there was
outstanding of Rs. 88,86,68,976/- . Further loan of Rs.
1,35,000/- was received during the period 01.04.2010 to
16.12.2010. On 16.12.2010, AICC, who had given loan to
AJL over the period of around Rs. 90 crores, transferred
the entire loan of Rs. 90 crores due from AJL in favour of YI
for a consideration of Rs. 50 lakhs. Thus, AICC assigned
loan of Rs. 90 crores outstanding as payable in books of
AJL to YI at Rs. 50 lakhs. Since YI did not had funds to
pay consideration of Rs. 50 lakhs, it took loan of Rs.
1,00,00,000/- (one crore) from M/s. Dotex Merchandise
Pvt. Ltd., Kolkata. Out of said loan, Rs. 50 lakhs were ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 5 paid to AICC on 01.03.2011. However, before the payment
of Rs. 50 lakhs to AICC, AJL had allotted 9,02,16,898
shares (almost 99.99% of the holding) to YI in lieu of loan
of Rs. 90 crores by increasing the share capital from Rs. 1
crore to Rs. 10 crores. Thus, almost entire shareholding of
AJL went to YI. Certain additional shares of AJL were also
purchased by Mrs. Sonia Gandhi, Mr. Rahul Gandhi and
Mrs. Priyanka Gandhi to gain full control of AJL. At the
time of making an application for registration u/s. 12AA,
the assessee company disclosed the list of shareholders
and directors of Young Indian during the assessment year
2011-12 as under: Shri Oscar Fernandes Director since 22.01.2011 - 600 shares
Shri Satyan Director since 23.11.2010
Gangaram Pitroda - Held 550 shares but transferred it
(Sam Pitroda) to Shri Oscar Fernandes

Shri Suman Dubey Director since 23.01.2010 - Held 550 shares but transferred it
 to Mrs. Sonia Gandhi. 06 The Chronology of events right from the date of inception of
 Young Indian u/s. 25 of the Companies Act till the date of
 application of registration u/s. 12AA as available from
 record can be summarized in the following manner: - 13.12.2010 Commencement • 1900 shares held for 36% stake in
 of directorship YI
 of Mr. Rahul
 Gandhi
 Transfer of Loan Within 25 days of incorporation of
 by of Rs 90 Young Indian
 Crores By
16.12.2010 AICC to AJL
 assigned to YI
 by Journal
 Entry
 Mr. Suman • Initially directors of YI, were
21.12.2010 Dubey and Mr. appointed as director of AJL before
 Sam Pitroda allotment of shares; 14.02.2011 Bank Account of • After issue of PAN by IT authorities
 YI opened
15.02.2011 Loan from Dotex Loan of Rs 1 crore was taken from
 Merchandise (P) this company to pay AICC Rs. 50
 Ltd., Kolkata Lakhs for assignment of loan in
 AJL
 • Confirmation letter dated
 24.12.2010
26.02.2011 Allotments of • 9,02,16,898 shares issued in lieu
 shares in AJL of assignment of loan of Rs. 90
 to YI Crore by increasing its authorized
 share capital to 10 crores from 1
 crore. • Mrs Sonia Gandhi, Mr. Rahul
 Gandhi and Ms. Priyanka Gandhi
 purchased additional shares to
 gain full control of AJL
 01.03.2011 Payment of Rs. 07 One of the main objects of Young Indian as enshrined in
 the Memorandum of Association (MOA) and Article of
 Association (AOA)for which is claimed to be of 'charitable'
 in nature, was as under: 08 Since the main object was to inculcate in the minds of
 Indian Youths commitment to the ideal of a democratic and
 secular society in conformity with the ideals of Mahatma ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 11 Gandhiji and Pt. Jawahar Lal Nehru, stated to be of
 charitable in nature in terms of section 2(15) of the Act,
 assessee company applied for registration u/s. 12AA before
 the ld. DIT (E), New Delhi. Along with the application, the
 assessee had filed list and names of founder members,
 Memorandum of Association and Article of Association,
 license granted u/s. 25 of the Companies Act, future
 annual income & expenditure estimates and assets and
 liabilities statements. 09 On 18.04.2011, a show-cause notice was issued to the
 assessee from DIT(E) asking following
 documents/clarifications: 10 In response, the assessee had filed certain documents
 including 'Note on activities' which were as under: 11 Another fact, which may be mentioned here, is that in
 application for registration filed, the address mentioned
 was Herald House, 5A Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New
 Delhi, which was the premises belonging to AJL and in this
 regard, NOC was given from the Chairman of AJL to the ld.
 DIT(E). 12 Thereafter, registration certificate u/s. 12A r/w section
 12AA was granted by the DIT (E) to the assessee company
 vide order dated 09.05.2011 w.e.f. assessment year 2011- 12. Such a registration was subject to the following terms
 and conditions:- [Emphasis in bold is ours]

13 After the grant of registration u/s 12AA in the aforesaid
 manner, assessee company in the 5th year of registration,
 i.e., on 21.03.2016, wrote a letter to CIT(E), that it is suo ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 16 moto surrendering the registration u/s. 12AA granted vide
order dated 09.05.2011. Thus, the benefit of being a
charitable institution and registration was given up. The
letter for surrender of registration reads as under: FINDING GIVEN IN THE IMPUGNED ORDER OF CIT (E)

14 In the impugned order, the ld. CIT(E) in para 3 has noted
 that an intimation was received from ACIT(E), Cir 1(1) vide
 letter dated 16.08.2017 regarding contravention of
 conditions subject to which the assessee was granted
 registration u/s. 12A r/w section 12AA . In the said
 communication, following facts were stated: 15 Thereafter, in para 4, the ld. CIT (E) observes that he has
 examined the annual reports of the assessee as well as of
 AJL for the relevant period and from scrutiny of such
 records and on going through the findings of the Assessing
 Officer and the information given by him, the aforesaid
 allegations gets corroborated with the facts on record of the
 assessee as well as of AJL. He further took note of the fact
 that the assessee vide letter dated 21.03.2016 had
 informed for surrendering of registration without explaining
 the actual reason for such surrender. Further, DIT (Inv.)
 and the Assessing Officer was conducting various enquiries
 with regard to the take-over of AJL by the assessee since
 the year 2014 and the main reason for surrendering the
 registration u/s. 12AA was the finding arrived by the
 Investigation Wing and the Assessing Officer that the
 assessee has not carried out the activities in accordance
 with its objects and these activities were not in conformity
 with the terms and conditions subject to which registration ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 19 u/s. 12AA was granted to the assessee. After taking note of
these facts and records available before him, he reached to
a prima facie conclusion that the assessee had not been
carrying out its activities in accordance with its objects. In
a show cause notice issued on 21.08.2017 to the assessee,
he called for the following information: • You are requested to furnish complete details of source of
 fund/income, of M/S Young Indian and its application
 during Assessment Year 2011-12 to 2016-17."
16 In response to the show cause notice, the assessee had
 submitted a reply, the extract of which has been
 incorporated in para 5 of the impugned order. In sum and
 substance, the assessee's submissions were: - 21.03.2016, it ceases to enjoy the benefit of the
 provisions of exemption of income, if any, accruing to
 it from and after the said date. Accordingly, the
 question of cancelling the registration does not arise.
• Regarding proposal to cancel the registration w.e.f.
 assessment year 2011-12, it was stated that, firstly,
 the payments towards acquisition of shares of AJL
 does not amount to investment because the term
 investment pre-supposes a return and holding these ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 23 shares does not envisage any dividend whether at
 present or expected. In fact, payment towards shares
 of AJL amounts to utilization of funds towards objects
 of Young Indian; and secondly, such surrender cannot
 be construed as admission that any of its activities
 were not in conformity with the terms of registration.
17 The ld. CIT (E) after discussing the provisions of sub-sec. (3) of section 12AA of the Act and considering the written
 submissions filed by the assessee, observed that the
 assessee has not furnished any details or evidences in
 support of the claim that it has carried out any activities in
 accordance with its objects, in response to specific query
 raised to the assessee in this regard in the show cause
 notice given u/s. 12AA (3) . He also examined the Income-
 tax Returns and annual reports of the assessee for the
 relevant period and found that the assessee had shown
 income of Rs. 200 in form of annual fee and has claimed
 expenditure of Rs. 53,21,290/-, out of which expenditure of
 Rs. 50 lakhs were claimed to be incurred on the objects of
 youth commitment of democratic and secular society. The
 income and expenditure account for the period 23.11.2010
 to 31.03.2011, as extracted in the impugned order, is
 reproduced as under: 19 After incorporating aforesaid details, the ld. CIT (E)
 proceeded to analyze the Income & Expenditure Accounts
 for the assessment years 2012-13 to 2014-15 and from the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 25 perusal of the same, he observed that the assessee had not
incurred any expenditure on its objects except for creating
provision for interest payment for loans of Rs. 1.00 crore
taken to acquire AJL, which, according to him, was a Real
Estate Company. He also incorporated the expenditure
incurred by the assessee for the assessment year 2012-13
to 2014-15 which were as under: 20 Thereafter, the ld. CIT(E) dealt with the activities carried
 out by AJL and noted that AJL was a company
 incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 and in earlier
 years engaged in publishing newspaper like 'National
 Herald', 'NavJeevan' and 'Qaumi Awaz' newspapers.
 However, the business of publication of newspapers ceased
 to exist, w.e.f. 02.04.2008 and all the employees of the
 company took VRS w.e.f. 02.04.2008. After the publication
 of newspapers ceased to exist, the income of AJL was
 mainly from real estate business and this company was
 engaged in purchase, construction and sale and renting
 out of its properties. He also took note of important
 properties held by the AJL in various parts of the country,
 the details of which are as under: He also noted that these properties were acquired by AJL
either as free hold or on lease from Central/State
Government solely for the purpose of publication of
newspaper by paying token price and after closure of
newspaper business in the year 2008, AJL started the
business of construction of buildings for commercial
purpose and had let out or sold its existing building on rent
or sale consideration. To corroborate this fact, he also took
note of disclosure of AJL in the annual report, which for
the sake of ready reference is also incorporate hereunder: respectively. During the year Company paid Rs. 2,22,17,743/-
 for buy-back of shops at Lucknow the amount paid has been
 shown as development expenditure. 4. (a) Freehold land includes 2 plots of Land allotted to the
 Company in 1983 by Government of Maharashtra at Bandra,
 Mumbai for Rs. 31,23,054/- on deferred payment basis.
 However, in 1991 the Govt. of Maharashtra on representation
 by the company had agreed to convert the said land from free ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 28 hold to lease hold. Fresh representation has been made to Govt.
of Maharashtra for reversing this decision, converting this land
to Freehold, which is pending. (b) The payment made up to 31.03.2009 to Govt. of
Maharashtra on account of annual lease rent etc. has been
shown under the head "capital work in progress". (c) The Title Deed in respect of land allotted in Mumbai,
Patna and Panchkula is yet to be registered/ executed. 5. (a) Advances/ Security Deposits received from the parties in
earlier years relating to construction activity on company's land
at Lucknow and Mumbai has been grouped under "Other
Liabilities" and "Unsecured Loans" and no provision of interest
has been made thereon. (b) No provision has been made of interest on amount of Rs. 165
lakhs received from parties as advance towards construction
activity at Mumbai, due to non-execution of final agreement." [Extracted from Schedule X - Notes forming part of the Account
for the year ended 31.03.2009 and emphasis supplied]

"4. The Company has no employees as on 31.03.2010 on its
records. 5. In respect of construction activity at Lucknow for sale
of shops and floors, advances made to contractors amount paid
for buy-back of shops and booking money received from
intending purchaser in earlier years, are included under
Schedule IV "Current Assets Loans and Advances" and
Schedule V "Current Liabilities & Provisions" respectively.
During the year Company paid Rs. 9,28,45,160/- (Prev. Year
Rs. 2,22,17,743/-) for buy-back of shops at Lucknow the
amount paid has been shown as development expenditure. 6. (a) Free hold land includes 2 plots of land allotted to
the Company in 1983 by Government of Maharashtra at
Bandra, Mumbai for Rs. 31,23,054/- on deferred payment
basis. However, in 1991 the Govt. of Maharashtra on
representation by the company had agreed to covert the said
land from free hold to lease hold. Fresh representation has
been made to Govt. of Maharashtra for reversing this decision,
converting this land to Freehold, which is pending. (b) The payment made to 31.03.2010 to Govt, of
 Maharashtra, on account of annual lease rent etc. has been
 shown under the head "Capital Work in Progress". (c) The Title Deed in respect of land allotted in Mumbai,
 Patna and Panchkula is yet to registered/ executed. 7. Advances/ Security Deposits received from the parties
 in earlier years relating to construction activity on company's
 land at Lucknow and Mumbai has been grouped under "Other
 Liabilities" and "Unsecured Loans" and no provision of interest
 has been made thereon. 21 Thus, according to ld. CIT (E), AJL had earned substantial
 income from Real Estate business from AY 2012-13 to
 2014-15. He also incorporated the details of such income
 as disclosed in the return of income of AJL.
22 Further, on perusal of financial details of AJL with
 reference to the claim of the assessee that the expenditure
 of Rs. 50 lakhs incurred on acquisition of AJL was in
 accordance with the objects, the ld. CIT(E) held that the
 claim of the assessee was factually incorrect and was not
 tenable for the following reason: 23 Thus, in view of the aforesaid reasons, Ld. CIT (E) held that
 the activities carried out by the assessee were to manage,
 control and engage in business of the AJL and thus, the
 activities were not in accordance with the stated objects of
 the assessee company. 24 The ld. CIT (E) further held that the acquisition of shares of
 AJL was never meant for objects of the assessee, i.e., for
 youth commitment for ideals of democratic and secular
 society for the reason that AJL was engaged solely for
 earning income from real estate business and never carried
 out activities and the objects for which it was granted
 registration. Even the assessee in the notes to account for
 the year ending 31.03.2011, stated that AJL was in the
 process of real estate business to manage the assessee
 company, which was also found to be factually correct. AJL ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 32 had never changed or re-aligned its business with the
 objects of the assessee company and for this reason, the
 expenditure of Rs. 50 lakhs cannot be held to have been
 incurred for the activities as per objects of the assessee
 company. 25 He further held that suo moto surrender of registration u/s. 12A in March, 2016, was in the wake of the fact that the
 investigation was mounted against the assessee by the
 Investigation Wing in the year 2014 and after having
 received the enquiry report from the Investigation Wing, the
 Assessing Officer had started investigation against the
 assessee by way of issue of summons u/s. 131 and
 proceedings u/s. 133(6) in the year 2015. Because of this
 enquiry, the Assessing Officer had issued notice u/s. 148 in January 2017 for reopening the assessment for A.Y.
 2011-12. Thus, the surrender was made by the assessee as
 a sequel to the investigation against the assessee and it
 was not suo moto action by the assessee. He further held
 that there was no provision for surrendering of certification
 of registration u/s. 12A by the assessee under the Act and
 the assessee had made the surrender after having claimed
 the benefit of exemption on the income of Rs. 2 crores
 received by it as contribution during the A.Y. 2016-17 in its
 return of income and suo moto surrendering registration
 will not lead to automatic cancellation of registration. He ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 33 also distinguished the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court
 in CIT vs. Mahindra Mills (supra) as relied upon by the
 assessee. 26 Another important fact noted by the ld. CIT (E) was that the
 assessee was asked to submit the details and evidences to
 show that it has actually carried out any activities during
 the assessment years 2011-12 to 2016-17 in accordance
 with the stated objects. In all the written replies filed, he
 observed, that no evidence, whatsoever, were furnished to
 prove that the assessee company had actually carried out
 any genuine activities in accordance with the stated
 objects. In fact, audited Income & Expenditure accounts
 and disclosure in the annual report prove beyond doubt
 that the assessee had not carried out any activities in
 accordance with its stated objects and claim of assessee
 that the activities were carried out has not been found to
 be genuine. The only activity stated to be carried out was of
 acquiring AJL, which too was not in accordance with the
 objects of the assessee, for which it was granted
 registration. 27 Thereafter, he observed that the judgment of Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the case of Mrs. Bacha F. Guzdar vs. CIT (supra) is not applicable in the facts of the case because
 here the issue is that the nature of activities carried out by
 the assessee through some of its directors who were also ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 34 directors of AJL by managing, controlling and participating
 in real estate business of AJL on behalf of the assessee.
28 After making all these observations and analysis, Ld. CIT(E)
 reached to the following conclusions: • The claim of the assessee that activity of AJL could
 not be held as activity of assessee has been
 examined in detail in paragraph 9 to 12 of this
 order and the claim was found both factually and
 legally untenable for the reason that only activity
 carried on by the assessee was to manage, control
 and engage in the real estate business or the AJL
 after acquiring all the properties of the AJL through
 Directors and shareholders of the assessee
 company as discussed earlier. In this context, the
 disclosure made by the assessee in the annual
 report ending 31.03.2011 as examined in detail
 above may also be referred to. The case law as cited
 by the assessee is not applicable to the peculiar
 facts of the case of the assessee where direct
 evidences are available to prove that the assessee
 was engaged in carrying out commercial business ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 36 of real estate in contravention to stated object of
 the company through its directors/ shareholders. • The contention of the assessee that it had suo moto
 surrendered the registration u/s 12A in the month
 of March 2016 has also been found factually
 incorrect as the surrender of 12A by the assessee
 was as sequel to investigation by the Directorate of
 Investigation and the AO since 2014. • The argument of the assessee that surrender of
 certificate granted to it u/s 12A r.w.s. 12AA in the
 month of March 2016 has automatically cancelled
 the registration granted by the competent authority
 is legally untenable claim as the provisions of
 section 12AA do not stipulate cancellation of
 registration by way of surrender by the assessee. It
 is a different issue that in this case the assessee
 has chosen to surrender the certificate of
 registration after having claimed exemption of
 income of Rs. 2 crores in the return of income for
 AY 2016-17." 29 Accordingly, Ld. CIT(E) held that in view of the aforesaid
 uncontroverted findings, he is satisfied that firstly, the
 activities of the assessee are not genuine; and secondly, are
 not carried out in accordance with its objects. Consequently, he withdrew the registration granted u/s.
 12A r/w sec. 12AA w.e.f. the assessment year 2011-12
 onwards. In other words, he cancelled the registration from
 the date of grant of granting registration itself. Arguments placed by the appellant/assessee: 30 Before us, the ld. counsel Ms. Kavita Jha, who had initially
 appeared before us on behalf of the assessee, vide letter
 dated 05.08.2019 had submitted a petition for admission of
 additional evidences stating that the ld. CIT(E) had given
 various incorrect and factually misleading statements and
 has reached to the conclusion without giving any
 opportunity or making sufficient enquiry. The additional
 evidences paper book filed separately is running into 386
 pages, containing list of 20 documents which are mostly in
 the nature of launch of Commemorative Edition of National
 Herald Publication in the year 2017 and 2018, launch of
 various websites by National Herald and Navjivan
 newspapers, erstwhile newspapers published by AJL,
 registration certificates of National Herald newspaper and
 Sunday Navjivan with Registrar of Newspapers for Indian
 and various kind of reports of Google showing the outreach
 of the online news portals operated by AJL. Further,
 resolution passed by the Board of Directors of AJL to ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 38 resume the publication of newspapers on 26.09.2016 and
 letter of AJL to the Registrar of Newspapers of India to resume newspaper business, copy of Form No. 23 submitted before the ROC with amended MOA to show that
 the amended objects of the AJL were in consonance with
 the objects of Young Indian are placed in the additional
 evidence paper book. Besides this, various presentations,
 photographs showing operation of Young Indian were also
 filed. 31 The reason stated for filing all these additional evidences
 was that these are filed to counter various statements
 made by the CIT(E) which are mainly based on conjectures
 and surmises and the ld. CIT(E) without giving any proper
 opportunity have stated several incorrect facts. It was
 pointed out that the ld. CIT (E) observed that the object of
 AJL was never re-casted to match with the objects of the
 appellant-assessee. However, there was an amended MOA
 of AJL filed before the Registrar of companies [ROC] that
 these objects were re-casted in the year 2011 to align with
 the objects of the assessee. Secondly, relevant observation
 of the ld. CIT (E) that business of publication of Newspaper
 of AJL ceased to exist w.e.f. 02.04.2008 is also incorrect. In
 fact, there was no such closure of business, rather it was a
 suspension of publication of newspapers for temporary
 period and same had been revived in the year 2017-18, for ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 39 which these additional evidences have been filed. Lastly, on
 issue that the ld. CIT (E) has concluded that AJL started
 the business of construction of buildings for the
 commercial purpose in the year 2008 and let out and sold
 the building on rent and for sale consideration, whereas
 the matter of fact is that activity of renting was part and
 parcel of the business of AJL since inception and no
 income has been earned from sale of any property. All
 these findings are based on unilateral reading of certain
 notes on financial statements of AJL without conducting
 any kind of enquiry from AJL. 32 Further, the ld. CIT (E) has mentioned the reasons for
 surrender of registration on account of findings of the
 Investigation Wing, but such observation has been made
 without providing any order or report from the
 Investigation Wing to the assessee. Even, reopening u/s.
 148 was much later in the year 2017, whereas the assessee
 has surrendered the registration in March 2016. In support
 of admission of additional evidences u/r. 29 of ITAT Rules,
 1963, strong reliance was placed on the decision of Hon'ble
 Delhi High Court in the case of Text Hundred India (P) Ltd.
 (2011) 197 Taxman 128. 33 Thereafter, the ld. counsel for the assessee, Sri Yogesh
 Thar gave para-wise submissions of the findings given in
 the impugned order. One of the contentions raised was that ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 40 the order passed by the ld. CIT (E) u/s. 12AA (3) is mostly
 based on the borrowed satisfaction without application of
 mind. This was pointed out from para 2 of the impugned
 order wherein an allegation made by the ACIT vide
 communication dated 16.08.2017 has been made the basis
 by the ld. CIT (E) and based on that he has reached to the
 conclusion that prima facie finding of the Assessing Officer
 was corroborated from the facts on record of the assessee
 as well as AJL. Thus, the ld. CIT (E) has merely relied upon
 the information received from the ACIT and JCIT and had
 not independently and objectively applied his own mind.
 For instance, relevant observation made by the ld. CIT (E)
 at page 13 to 15 was highlighted before us. The ld. counsel
 further submitted that the requirement u/s. 12AA(3) before
 canceling the registration is that the ld. CIT(E) should be
 satisfied that the activities of the assessee are not genuine
 or are not in accordance with the objects. Such satisfaction
 cannot be a borrowed satisfaction based on the finding of
 another officer without application of mind independently.
 In support, reliance was placed on the following two
 decisions: 34 With regard to various observations and allegations of the
 ld. CIT (E), the Ld. Counsel tried to give his point-wise ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 41 rebuttal on various issues raised in the impugned order.
 First of all, with regard to the allegation that the MOA of
 AJL was never re-casted to align with the objects of the
 assessee company during the period relevant to
 assessment years 2011-12 to 2014-15, he submitted that
 the same is not correct because the MOA of AJL was re-
 casted on 13.09.2011 whereby new clause "(u)" was
 inserted to align with the objects of the assessee company.
 In support, amended MOA as passed by the shareholders
 of the company on 13.09.2011, placed on the additional
 paper book page 68 to 80, was referred to and relied upon.
 The new amended objects, Clause "(u)" placed at paper
 book page 224 in additional evidence, read as under: 35 Further, in the year 2016, AJL further amended its objects
 that it is the non-profit making company and it had applied ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 42 u/s. 8 of the Companies Act 2013, for which reference was
 made to pages 281 to 295 of the additional evidence paper
 book. Our attention was drawn to form MGT 14 filed with
 the ROC and the main object of AJL at clause "(i)" was
 inserted, which reads as under: Further, clause (v) of the MOA mentioned that - (i) The profit, if any, or other income and property of the
 Company whenever derived shall be applied solely for the
 promotion of its objects as set forth in this Memorandum. (ii) No portion of the profits, other income or property aforesaid
 shall be paid or transferred, directly or indirectly, by way of
 dividend, bonus or otherwise by way of profit to persons who,
 at any time, are or have been members of the Company or to
 anyone or more of them or to any persons claiming through
 anyone or more of them. (iii) No remuneration or other benefit in money or money's worth
 shall be given by the Company to any of its members, whether
 officers or members of the Company or not, except payment of
 out-of-pocket expenses, reasonable and proper interest on
 money lent, or reasonable and proper rent on premises let to
 the Company." 36 Further clause (x) of the MOA provided that on winding up
 or dissolution of AJL, the surplus, if any, shall not be
 distributed among the members of the company but shall
 be given or transferred to such other section 8 company
 having objects similar to the objects of AJL. Thus, it was
 submitted that the observations of the ld. CIT (E) that the
 objects of the AJL were not re-casted during the years
 2011-12 to 2014-15 is completely baseless and incorrect.
37 Another contention raised to rebut the finding of the ld. CIT
 (E) was that, the publication business was only temporarily
 suspended in the year 2008 and there was no closure of
 the business. It was submitted that publication business of
 the AJL had never ceased to exist and reference to Notes to
 accounts of AJL is not properly appreciated, because it
 nowhere states that the business of publication had been
 suspended. Nowhere, the note speaks about the intention
 to close the publication business. The ld. counsel
 submitted that the AJL is a very old company incorporated
 in the year 1937 as a public company in Lucknow under ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 44 the Indian Companies Act, 1913 , wherein various stalwarts
of freedom movement, such as, Pt. Jawahar Lal Nehru, PD
Tandon, Acharya Narendra Dev, Kailash Nath Katju, Rafi
Ahmad Kidwai were the first subscribers and signatories to
MOA of AJL. The main object of the AJL was to establish a
publication business and to publish newspapers,
magazines in accordance with the policy and principles of
the Indian National Congress. The AJL started publishing
newspapers, i.e., National Herald in English, Navjivan in
Hindi and Qaumi Awaz in Urdu, which served as the voice
of the freedom movement. It was also argued that from
time to time, publication business of AJL was suspended
and again it was revived. In the year 2008, since AJL
started facing financial, operational and labour troubles,
the company had to again temporarily suspend its
publication business. In support, events leading to
temporary suspension of publication business in 2008
were also submitted. These were stated to on account of
labour unrest and strikes, printing machinery had become
obsolete and there was dip in the circulation of its
newspapers and most of its buildings were sealed due to
non-payment of labour dues. Not only that, a fire had
broken out in its Lucknow premises, which destroyed the
printing press. Owing to the said trouble and continuous
losses, the publication was temporarily suspended. The ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 45 publication business was temporarily suspended, is clear
from the fact that on 31.03.2008, AJL informed United
News of India (UNI) about the temporary suspension of
publication business. Even third party newspapers had
published that there was temporary suspension of
publication business by AJL. Thus, there was no closure of
business or business itself had ceased to exist, rather it
was only a temporary suspension. He submitted that, in
fact, the publication had later on re-commenced, which is
evident from the following facts, placed in the paper book of
additional evidences: 38 Further, it was submitted that there were several
 subscribers and readers of AJL publications, for which
 certificate issued by Audit Bureau of Circulations and the
 report of Google showing outreach of the online portals
 operated by AJL since November 2016 till date. It clearly
 shows that the publication business of the assessee
 company had revived and is running. The ld. counsel also ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 47 relied on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
 case of CIT v. Vikram Cotton Mills Ltd. (1988) 169 ITR
 597 (SC), wherein Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that to
 determine whether business was temporarily suspended,
 evidence of the assessee is important. 39 The ld. counsel further submitted that the allegation of the
 ld. CIT (E) that AJL is Real Estate Company is absolutely
 incorrect. It was pointed out that in public interest, State
 Governments, as a policy, had allotted lands/buildings to
 various entities engaged in the newspaper business to
 partly use it for running newspaper business and partly to
 rent it out. The same is done by the Government to ensure
 independence of the press. The newspaper publishing
 business, being capital intensive in nature, is primarily a
 loss making business. In fact, the price at which
 newspapers are sold is very nominal so that it can reach to
 masses and generally, the cost of publishing a newspaper
 is higher than the price at which the same is sold.
 Therefore, in order to promote press and ensure its
 freedom, the Government allots lands/buildings to various
 entities engaged in the newspaper business so that they
 can recoup their losses from publication business and
 survive by commercially exploiting the said allotted
 lands/buildings by renting out the same. The lease deed
 allotting the said lands/buildings specifically permits the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 48 lessees to use the property for renting out. Indeed, said
 practice of renting out the properties by newspaper
 business is permissible in standard newspaper leases and
 allotments of immovable property for newspaper user. The
 aforesaid facts are matter of public knowledge and policy.
 In support, reliance was placed on the judgment of Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the case of Govt. of AP v. Maharshi
 Publishers Pvt. Ltd.(Civil appeal 7152-7157 of 2002),
 wherein Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed as under: 40 The ld. counsel also furnished the list of properties of major
 newspaper companies in India and list of properties
 allotted to AJL. All the newspapers companies have been
 partly renting out their properties to support their
 newspaper business. In support, list of tenants of various
 such companies in Delhi was also handed over to us at the
 time of hearing. Thus, it was submitted that practice of ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 49 allotment of land to newspaper companies and such
newspaper companies using the same for renting purpose
is part and parcel of their publication business is not so
uncommon. Therefore, if AJL has received rental income, it
cannot be held that it is from Real Estate business and if
said logic is applied to all the newspaper companies, all of
them shall be treated as Real Estate Companies.
Highlighting the role of newspaper in the democracy, the
ld. counsel submitted that press is one of the important
pillars of democracy and its freedom is of paramount
importance. Reliance was placed on the judgment of
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Indian Express
Newspaper v. UOI (1986 AIR 515) wherein Hon'ble
Supreme Court has held that Press is the 4thestate of the
country and freedom of speech and expression should,
therefore, be given paramount importance and generous
support and the government should be more cautious
while levying taxes on other matters concerning newspaper
industry. Reliance was also placed on another decision of
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Bennett Coleman &
Co. &Ors. Vs. UOI (1973 AIR 106). Relying on these
judgments, it was submitted by the Ld. Counsel that for
the said freedom of press, lands were allotted to the
companies and permission was granted to partly rent out
the same and therefore, AJL cannot be regarded as ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 50 engaged in the Real Estate business and it is part and
 parcel of publication business of AJL. 41 The ld. counsel further submitted that AJL had never
 purchased or sold any property after year 2008 as alleged
 by the ld. CIT (E). It was submitted that certain land
 parcels were allotted to AJL by the Government from time
 to time between the periods 1962 to 2005. In the year
 1962, the Government of India allotted land to AJL situated
 at 5A, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi for the
 purpose of carrying out newspaper publication. As per
 terms of allotment, AJL was allowed to let out part of the
 building to be constructed on the same. In the year 1983,
 Government of Maharashtra allotted a property to AJL in
 Mumbai for the purpose of carrying out publication of daily
 newspapers and establishing a Nehru Library cum
 Research Institute. Similarly, allotment was made by the
 Government of Bihar in Patna and Government of Haryana
 in Panchkula. Apart from that, AJL also owns freehold land
 in Lucknow purchased in the year 1975. Thus, allotment of
 land by the Government for publication business cannot be
 held that AJL had acquired the properties for any kind of
 Real Estate Business. Certain Annexure were filed by the
 assessee to show that the construction of the Delhi
 property was completed in the year 1967 and the same has
 been given on rent since year 1990. It was pointed out the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 51 Patna property is an encroached land on which no
construction activity has been undertaken ever. Property in
Lucknow is a freehold land comprising of two parts, Nehru
Bhawan and Nehru Manzil. Construction of Nehru Bhawan
was completed in the year 1984 and newspaper activity
was conducted there from. However, a fire broke out in the
year 2002 destroying the printing press, after which the
building was repaired in the FY 2007-08 and given on rent
to a charitable organization. In case of Nehru Manzil,
construction had started in the year 1988, but was never
completed due to financial constraints. In case of
Panchkula property, the construction has been completed
in 2013, from where newspaper activity is being conducted.
In case of Mumbai property, the construction is still in
process, which after completion would be used for
newspaper activity, for establishing a Nehru Library cum
Research Institute and be partly let out as per the
permissible terms of allotment. Hence, it was submitted
that CIT (E)'s observations that AJL started constructions
after year 2008 is also untrue. It was submitted that there
was temporary suspension of publication business in the
year 2008, and to further strengthen and improve liquidity
and to improve the financial position of the company, AJL
substantially renovated two properties, namely Delhi and
Lucknow, in order to earn higher rents from these ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 52 immovable properties so as to be able to use the proceeds
 to resume newspaper and digital publication. It started
 renovation and construction of its properties so as to let
 them out and improve its financial position with the long-
 term view to first stabilize its financial position and then
 revive its publication business. Ld. Counsel pointed out
 that, in the years 2016-17 and 2017-18, the digital and
 print publication activities of AJL respectively have
 recommenced and the company is fully committed to
 continue to conduct its publication activities to their fullest
 potential. In FY 2016-17, the company had restarted its
 digital publication business and in the following financial
 year revived its traditional print newspaper business, thus
 ending the brief "temporary suspension". Thus, renting of
 the properties has revived the financially distressed
 position of AJL and today it is a healthy going concern
 newspaper and digital publishing business run in the
 public interest. Thus, said activity cannot be said to be real
 estate business. 42 Regarding allegation of ld. CIT (E) that AJL had some
 properties which goes to show that it is a real estate
 company, for which reference was made by him to the
 notes on account of AJL as on 31.03.2009, wherein it was
 stated that the company has taken booking amount for
 sale of shops and floors from intended purchasers in ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 53 Lucknow and has paid amount for buy-back of shops. Ld.
 Counsel submitted that the word "buy-back" has been
 loosely used in the said note because it represents
 repayment of the booking amount taken from the intended
 purchasers. In order to construct Nehru Manzil property at
 Lucknow, in the year 1988, AJL had raised fund by taking
 amounts in the form of booking amount towards shops
 that would have been sold in the constructed property.
 However, since AJL was unable to complete the
 construction due to financial constraints, it suspended the
 construction and gradually refunded the booking amount
 to the parties. Not a single property has been sold and all
 the properties remain in dilapidated conditions even today.
 In any case, the transaction, which has taken place in the
 year 1988, for which the booking amount was received, has
 no relevance for the period when the publication business
 was temporarily suspended. The fact that Lucknow
 property was never sold is also evident from the accounts
 of AJL for various years. Thus, when the assessee has not
 earned income from any sale of property then it can never
 be treated as Real Estate Company since 2011-12. AJL
 never stated in its account or its ITR that its income is from
 Real Estate business. 43 Coming on to the point raised by the ld. CIT (E) that, since
 the assessee company (YI) had full control over AJL by ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 54 acquiring 99% of the share holding and the directors being
the same of the two companies, therefore, the assessee was
indulged in the business of Real Estate, which is not in
accordance with the objects of the assessee. The ld.
counsel submitted that the ld. CIT (E) has given no basis to
say so merely because the assessee holds the shares in AJL
and has common directors, the assessee was conducting
the business of AJL. It is trite law that by acquiring the
shares of a company, the shareholder does not become the
owner of the assets of the company. Reliance is placed on
the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
Rustom Cawasjee Cooper and Union of India (40
Company cases 325), wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court
held that the company registered under the Companies Act is a legal person separate and distinct from its individual
members and the property of the company is not the
property of shareholders. Similar view has been taken by
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Mrs. Bacha F. Guzdar (supra)
and catena of other judgments. Thus, it cannot be held
that the assessee company was conducting the duties of
AJL. In any case, the AJL is not into the Real Estate
business but in publication activities. Therefore, the
question of Assessee Company having been engaged in
commercial activities does not arise. In fact, by acquiring
the shares of AJL, it was never intended to make any gain. The assessee being a section 25 company and even if any
 alleged gain would have been derived then it would not
 have been distributed as dividend. Therefore, there could
 not be any motive to undertake any commercial transaction
 to derive any benefit or gain. Further, AJL had passed
 resolution on 21.01.2016 to get the company registered
 under section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013, the effect of
 which is that even AJL is prohibited from declaring
 dividend or distributing any profit amount to the
 shareholders. 44 As far as allegation of the ld. CIT (E) that the assessee
 company did not carry out any genuine activities in
 accordance with its objects, Ld. Counsel submitted that the
 assessee company acquired 99% shareholding in AJL,
 which is a newspaper publishing company with objects
 similar to that of the assessee. The objects of both the
 companies was to reach out to the youth of India in
 pursuance to its charitable objects and accordingly in order
 to promote its objects through the platform of AJL, the
 assessee company approached AJL, whose objects were
 germane to those of the assessee and with infrastructure to
 publish newspapers. Thus, through AJL and its platform,
 the assessee wanted to reach Youth of India and spread
 message of morals as laid down in its objects. Since AJL
 was facing financial and operational troubles due to which ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 56 it had to temporarily suspend its operation in 2008,
therefore, as a part of its effort to revive AJL with an object
to creating platform to achieve its objects, the assessee
company took over loan which AJL was not in a position to
repay from AICC for a sum of Rs. 50 lakhs. Accordingly,
the loan was assigned by AICC to the assessee for
consideration of Rs. 50 lakhs. After assigning of said loan,
AJL step into the shoes of AICC and AJL converted the said
loan into the equity shares by issuing 9.021 crore equity
shares to the assessee company to discharge its liability. As
a result, the assessee became 99% shareholder in AJL.
This transaction was duly disclosed in the audited
accounts of the assessee company in the balance sheet in
the year ending 31.03.2011. It was emphatically reiterated
that the AJL had re-aligned its objects with that of the
assessee company in the year 2011 and further in the year
2016, it had amended its MoA again to achieve its objects
and declared itself as a non-profit company. Thus, AJL
being newspaper publication was an ideal platform to
achieve the objects of the assessee, i.e., to spread the
ideology of democratic and secular society. It was through
AJL that the assessee was spreading its ideology to the
youths. As a sample, the ld. counsel drew our attention
through the Web of National Herald, where there is a
separate tab for "Democracy" and "young India". The said ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 57 Web was launched in November 2016 whereas the show-
 cause notice was issued by the CIT (E) in November 2016.
 The assessee company has been spreading the ideology of
 democratic and secular society through various articles. In
 support, the ld. counsel also handed over a list of Articles
 published under the tab "Young India" on National Herald
 Web. The ld. counsel has also placed several presentations
 and photographs showing operations of the assessee at
 page 301 to 386 of the additional evidence paper book.
 Thus, he submitted that e-medium was the ideal platform
 to reach today's youths as it was available on all electronic
 platforms in the form of mobiles, laptops, tabs etc. Apart
 from that, the ideology of democracy and secularism was
 also being spread through the newspapers of AJL. In
 support, he showed us the Commemorative Edition of
 National Herald. Thus, it was submitted that on the
 platform of AJL, Young Indian had achieved its objects for
 spreading the ideology of democratic and secular society.
 Accordingly, it cannot be held that no genuine activities
 were carried out by the assessee towards its objects.
45 Without prejudice to the submissions made above, the ld. counsel submitted that the cancellation order of the ld.
 CIT(E) is bad in law because before issuance of show cause
 notice, the assessee had suo moto surrendered its
 registration. He submitted that the assessee had already ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 58 filed a letter before the DIT (E) surrendering its registration
 u/s. 12A r.w.s. 12AA and also communicated that
 unanimous resolution was passed on 21.02.2016 to get the
 AJL company registered u/s. 8 of the Companies Act, 2013
 and therefore, the assessee would not have any earned
 income due to the said fact. It was for this reason, the
 registration u/s. 12AA had virtually become academic and
 accordingly, the same was surrendered with immediate
 effect. Once, on the date of issuance of show cause notice,
 the assessee had also surrendered the registration u/s.
 12AA, and then notice itself is bad in law and without
 jurisdiction. 46 As far as the allegation of the ld. CIT (E) that the assessee
 had surrendered its registration as a sequel of investigation
 against the assessee, Ld. Counsel submitted that firstly,
 the entire premise was based on the ground that AJL was
 in Real Estate business, which it was incorrect as per the
 detailed submissions made by him. He pointed out that the
 investigation had started in July 2014 and the assessee
 had replied in August 2015 and thereafter, the assessee
 was never provided any report or order in respect of all
 these investigations and therefore, no adverse allegation
 could have been envisaged against the assessee. Even after
 surrendering of registration on 21.03.2016, no
 communication was received by the assessee from the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 59 department and it was only in January 2017, the assessee
 was visited with notice u/s. 148 for reopening the case for
 the assessment year 2011-12. Thus, surrender of
 registration had no link with the investigation as alleged by
 the ld. CIT (E). When the assessee was not provided any
 adverse order or report, the question of surrendering its
 registration because of investigation, cannot be arise. The
 sole reason for surrender of registration was because of the
 fact that AJL was in the process of converting into section
 8 company, there would have been no income in future,
 and registration held by it would not have served any
 purpose. Besides this, even much before the investigation
 began, full disclosure was made in the annual account of
 the assessee company for F.Y. 2010-11, wherein it was
 categorically stated that the assessee in pursuit of its
 objects required the loan owned by AJL which was
 converted into shares of AJL and since said conversion was
 towards objects of the assessee, the same was not reflected
 as investment in the books. Thus, if cancellation of
 registration is not by any investigation report then how can
 investigation be the reason for surrender of registration by
 the assessee. 47 Lastly, Ld. Counsel submitted that the assessee is entitled
 to surrender the registration u/s. 12AA even though Act
 does not provide any specific provision prohibiting such ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 60 surrender. In support, he has relied upon the judgment of
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mahindra Mills (supra) and also following judgments: 48 Further, when the assessee had surrendered registration in
 March, 2016 and for a long period of 17 months, no action
 was taken, then in absence of any action taken by the
 department, it should be deemed to have been accepted by
 the department. The ld. counsel referred to sub-sec. (2) of
 section 12AA wherein, it has been stated that every order
 granting or rejecting registration, has to be passed within
 six months from the end of the months in which the
 application is filed. In support, he also referred to the
 following decisions: CESTAT)

49 Without prejudice, the Ld. Counsel submitted that
 registration cannot be cancelled retrospectively without
 giving specific opportunity to the assessee and further,
 registration cannot be cancelled with retrospective date.
 Reliance in this regard was placed on the judgment of
 Allahabad High Court in the case of Agra Development
 Authority (2018) 90 taxmann.com 282 and of Madras
 High Court in the case of Auro Lab v. ITO (2019) 102
 taxmann.com 225 (Madras). 50 Again, without prejudice, Ld. Counsel submitted that even
 if it is held that the assessee had acquired shares of a
 commercial entity, it could not be a basis for denial of
 registration. He submitted that till insertion of sub-sec. (4)
 in section 12AA w.e.f. 01.10.2014, the registration could be
 cancelled only if CIT finds that the activities of the trust is
 not genuine or is not in accordance with the objects of the
 trust. Any other basis that the assessee is holding asset
 not permissible u/s. 11(5) or any other reason does not
 permit cancellation of shares. In support, he has relied
 upon the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High court in the case of
 DIT(E) v. Abdul Kalam Azad Islamic Awakening (2013)
 33 taxmann.com 364 and the judgment of ITAT, Pune ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 62 Bench in the case of Prabodhan Shikshan Prasarak
 Sanstha vs. DCIT(2014) 44 taxmann.com 33. Further, the
 reason for cancellation on the ground that holding of
 shares of AJL which was engaged in commercial activities,
 cannot be a ground for cancellation of registration because
 such ground, if at all, would have been under sub-section
 (4) of section 12AA inserted w.e.f. 01.10.2014 by which
 holding impermissible investment u/s. 11(5) can be a
 ground for cancellation of registration w.e.f. 01.10.2014
 and therefore, any cancellation on this ground prior to the
 said date, is not permissible. Submissions on behalf of the Revenue

51 On behalf of the Revenue, Ld. Special Counsel, Shri G. C.
 Srivastava, Advocate, first of all objected for admission of
 additional evidence filed by the assessee on the ground
 that, firstly, they are not relevant for deciding the issue in
 hand; secondly, most of the documents and materials,
 which have been placed in the additional evidence paper
 book-1, are post cancellation order of ld. CIT (E) dated
 26.10.2017, which are placed in the additional evidences.
 For instance, documents placed at item No. 2, 5, 10 and
 12; therefore, these documents should not be admitted;
 and lastly, he questioned the genuineness of the evidences.
52 Thereafter, Mr. Srivastava submitted that in order to
 appreciate entire gamut of facts and background of the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 63 case and to have an over view of entire factual matrix and
 the material available with the Commissioner and the
 records called by him for its perusal as concluded by the
 ld. CIT(E) in para 17 of his impugned order, the facts of the
 case can be divide into four part, namely - i. Facts as existed prior to the incorporation of the
 Assessee Company. ii. Facts evidenced by events happening from the date of
 incorporation till the date of filing the application for
 registration; iii. Facts stated in the application for registration or in the
 course of proceedings relating thereto; iv. Events happening after the grant of registration till the
 date of cancellation of registration. 53 He also submitted a chart of dates and events which gives
 details of: i) events prior to the year 2008; ii) events from
 2008 till incorporation of Young Indian; iii) dates and
 evident from incorporation of Young Indian till filing of
 application for registration; iii) events and facts disclosed
 during the registration process; and v) lastly, the dates and
 events post registration and before cancellation. From
 these charts, he tried to highlight the facts and background
 of the entire case, which has been summarized by him in
 the following manner: b. The registered office of AJL was moved from Lucknow
 to Delhi on 01.09.2010. Prior to that, on 17.06.2010,
 Mr. Oscar Fernandes was appointed director of AJL.
c. Young Indian was incorporated on 23.11.2010. It was
 granted license u/s 25 of the Companies Act, 1956.
 The incorporation was done with Mr. Sam Pitroda
 and Mr. Suman Dubey being Directors, each having
 550 shares in the company (which were later
 transferred to Mr. Oscar Fernandes and Smt. Sonia
 Gandhi). Mr. Sam Pitroda and Mr. Suman Dubey
 were also appointed as directors of AJL on
 21.12.2010. d. Within 25 days of the incorporation of the Assessee
 Company, the AICC transferred loan of Rs. 90.21
 crores which was due to them from AJL in favour of
 the Assessee Company for a consideration of Rs.
 50,00,000/-. He pointed out that the paid-up capital
 of the Assessee Company was only Rs. 5,00,000/-
 and did not even have the funds to pay the meager
 consideration of Rs. 50 lakhs. e. The Assessee Company took a loan of Rs. 1 crore
 from M/s Dotex Merchandise Pvt. Ltd. ('Dotex') The
 Assessee Company paid the said Rs. 50 lakhs out of
 the loan from M/s Dotex to All India Congress
 Committee (AICC) on 01.03.2011. However, much
 before the payment of Rs. 50 lakhs to AICC, AJL had
 already allotted 9,02,16,898 shares in lieu of the loan
 of Rs. 90 crores (approx.) to the Assessee Company
 by increasing its share capital from Rs. 1 Crore to Rs.
 10 Crores. Certain additional shares of AJL were also
 purchased by Smt. Sonia Gandhi, Sh. Rahul Gandhi
 and Smt. Priyanka Gandhi to gain full control of AJL.
 These transactions as appearing in the bank account
 of the Assessee Company were noted as suspicious
 transactions and the Financial Intelligence Unit
 ('FIU') received a note from the concerned agency to
 the effect that the loan transaction as also the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 66 acquisition of shares were suspicious in nature as
 these were not in accordance with the stated objects
 of the Assessee Company. This information was
 received and passed on to the Investigation Wing of
 the Department. Thus, the trigger of inquiry into the
 affairs of the company was the nature of transaction
 as reported to FIU. f. The Assessee Company applied for Registration of
 u/s. 12A r.w.s 12AA by its application dated
 31.03.2010. The Application was accompanied by
 sets of annexure containing Names of Founder
 Members, Names of members of the Managing
 Committee, Memorandum of Association, Articles of
 Association, Certificate of Incorporation, License u/s.
 25 of the Companies Act, 1956. All these documents
 form part of the Paper Book-1 filed by the Revenue
 and appear on pages 9 to 58. Therefore, it needs to
 be highlighted that though the Assessee Company
 had borrowed Rs. 1 crore from Dotex and had also
 invested in the acquisition of AJL through allotment
 of 99.999% shares, the statement in 'Annexure - 5B'
 stated that there are no assets and liabilities 7 days
 prior to the date of filing of application. This
 statement is claimed to have been signed on
 14.10.2010 and the explanation offered by the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 67 assessee was that these documents were filed before
 Ministry of Corporate Affairs ("MCA") for obtaining
 license under Section 25 and these documents,
 though not required to be filed under the Rules,
 slipped into the application. He pointed out that
 these Annexures (5(a) and 5(b)) were filed in response
 to point no. 2, which called for copies of accounts for
 the latest one year. If the document is filed on 31s'
 March 2011, it follows that the facts have not
 undergone any change on the date of filing of the
 document. Revenue's case is that there was a
 deliberate attempt on the part of the Assessee
 Company to place incorrect facts in order to ensure
 that factum of so-called borrowing by the Assessee
 Company and acquisitions of shares of AJL do not
 come to the notice of the Competent Authority.
g. In the course of proceedings before the
 Commissioner, the Assessee Company did submit a
 note on 09.05.2011 giving a brief account of the
 activities of the Assessee Company till that date and
 the said records as under: - h. It has been pointed out by him that the Assessee
 Company never applied for registration u/s 80G and
 not a penny of donation was raised from any agency.
i. Further, in the note dated 09.05.2011, the Assessee
 Company did not even whisper about the activity of
 acquisition of shares of AJL nor made any attempt to
 place on record a full and true account of the
 activities of the Assessee Company from the date of
 its incorporation till the request for grant of
 registration. Thus, he submitted that this fact further
 reinforces the contention that there was deliberate
 attempt to suppress and withhold information about
 the real motive of the activities of the Assessee
 Company during the course of proceedings for grant
 of registration. j. The application for registration was filed with the
 address of the Assessee Company as Herald House,
 New Delhi and when asked by the Revenue, the
 Assessee Company filed no objection certificate from
 the Chairman of AJL granting the use of Herald
 House to the Assessee Company. The registration
 was granted to the Assessee Company on 09.05.2011
 subject to certain conditions. Revenue started
 making inquiries into the activities of the Assessee
 Company alter receiving the information through FIU
 and the Tax Evasion Petition. After the inquiries by
 the Investigation Wing, the AO sought various
 information from YI and also from AICC to reach to
 the correct state of affairs. He had also placed the
 entire correspondence that the AO had with YI and
 AICC and also the manner in which submission of
 information to the AO was resisted on various
 grounds like lack of authority to conduct the
 inquiries, making available the copy of the approval
 of Commissioner for calling information u/s 133(6) ,
 seeking inspection of the tile, etc. No worthwhile
 information was given to the AO. The letters in
 correspondence form part of the paper hook tiled by
 the Revenue. The vital pieces of information called for
 by the AO were not submitted and a general ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 70 statement was made that it is available in accounts
 or in public domain. k. The Assessee Company, faced with the questionnaire
 of the AO and the reopening of assessment for A.Y.
 2011-12, chose to surrender the registration u/s 12A
 on 21.03.2016. The AO reported to the CIT (E) how
 the activities of the Assessee Company were neither
 genuine nor carried out in furtherance of the stated
 objects. Based on the report of the AO and on perusal
 of the relevant records, the CIT (E) issued notice and
 after giving full opportunity to the Assessee Company
 passed order on 26.10.2017, withdrawing the
 registration w.e.f. A.Y. 2011-12 onwards. The primary
 basis on which registration has been withdrawn is
 contained in Para 17 of the order of the CIT (E). In
 substance, the foundation of the CIT(E)'s action is
 based on the fact that the Assessee Company has not
 been able to point out a single activity in furtherance
 of its stated objects for which it was created during
 the said period, and the only activity carried out by
 the Assessee Company was of borrowing the amount
 of Rs. 1Crore, making payment of Rs. 50 lakhs to
 AICC, applying for allotment of shares against
 cancellation of loan of Rs. 90 crores assigned by AICC
 to them, has absolutely nothing to do with the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 71 furtherance of objects of YI. The only move that was
 taken was to acquire AJL that had stopped its
 publication activities but was only holding on to
 certain properties and exploiting these for rental
 income or construction of shops, etc. The CIT (E) also
 pointed out that the surrender of registration after
 the investigation by the Department cannot be used
 as a tool to prevent the rigors of cancellation of
 registration. 54 Mr. Srivastava then drew our attention to another fact that
 while the Income tax and investigation proceedings were
 going on and parallel proceedings were also undertaken by
 Land Development office for taking back the possession of
 land allotted in New Delhi to AJL post cessation of the
 publication activity. Inspections were carried out on
 13.09.2016 and 26.09.2016 that clearly demonstrated that
 there was no press activity at the given premises. Once it
 was realized that AJL was in contravention of the terms of
 lease, it passed a resolution on 26.09.2016 to resume the
 activity of the publication of newspapers. He further
 brought on record that a writ petition was filed by AJL
 before the Hon'ble Delhi High Court against the actions of
 the Land & Development Officer ('LDO'). The petition was
 dismissed by the Writ Court and against that an appeal
 was filed before the Hon'ble Division Bench. A detailed ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 72 order has been passed by the Hon'ble Division Bench
 upholding the actions of the LDO, bringing to public
 domain certain facts that have a direct bearing on this case
 also, which should be followed. The copies of the orders of
 the Hon'ble High Court were placed before us.
55 Further, by way of counter submissions in response to the
 arguments and submissions made by the ld. counsel for
 the assessee, Mr. Srivastava submitted that one of the core
 issues, on which the registration has been cancelled by the
 ld. CIT (A), is that the activities of the assessee company
 were not in accordance with its objects. The main thrust by
 the ld. counsel for the assessee was that the ld. CIT (E) was
 not justified in holding that AJL is Real Estate Company
 and since this is the core reason for cancellation of
 registration, therefore, the order of the ld. CIT (E) cannot be
 sustained. The case of the Revenue for cancellation of
 registration is not only confined to the fact that the AJL is a
 Real Estate company, albeit the assessee company has not
 carried out any activity, whatsoever, in furtherance of the
 stated objects and the only activity carried out in this
 regard was acquisition of AJL which was not in conformity
 with the objects, on the basis of which the registration was
 granted to the assessee. He drew our attention to the
 finding given by the ld. CIT (E) in para 15 and his
 observations summarized in para 17 of the impugned ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 73 order. He further submitted that, from the documents
placed before this Tribunal, which are forming part of the
record, it is clearly shown that - i. Even before the incorporation of the Assessee
 Company, the registered office of AJL was shifted to
 Delhi. ii. Directors managing the affairs of the Assessee
 Company were taken on Board of AJL. iii. The appellant company was permitted to use the
 property of AJL as its head office/registered office. iv. The manner in which a loan of Rs. 90 crores (approx.)
 was assigned by AICC in favour of the Assessee
 Company for a paltry consideration of Rs. 50 Lacs
 speaks volumes of the real intent and motive of the
 transaction. v. The Assessee Company was not having the financial
 capability by way of corpus or the revenue receipts to
 pay even this consideration and had to allegedly
 borrow a sum of Rs. 1 Crore from a company named
 M/s Dotex Merchandise Pvt. Ltd., based out of
 Kolkata. vi. AJL promptly increased its share capital and allotted
 99.99% shares to the appellant company, some of the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 74 directors separately acquired a small number of
 shares to have full control over AJL. vii. These transactions were "questionable" and "speak
 volumes" as observed by the Hon'ble High Court of
 Delhi. (Para 20 of the Hon'ble High Court order in
 W.P. (C.) 12133/2018). 56 The second core argument taken on behalf of the Revenue
 was that, most of these vital facts were suppressed by the
 assessee company from DIT (Exemption) while making the
 application for registration and during the process of said
 registration. For instance, vide point No. 7 of the
 information/clarification dated 18.04.2011 (during the
 process of registration) seeking note on the activities
 carried out since inception with supporting documentary
 evidences was admittedly never supplied to by the assessee
 company. The copy of the said query/clarification sought
 from the assessee vide letter dated 18.04.2011 has been
 placed in the Paper Book-1 filed by the Revenue. Thus, it
 was submitted that there was clear cut suppression of
 information by the assessee company during the process of
 seeking registration u/s. 12AA, which itself vitiates the
 registration as the condition mentioned in the order
 granting registration has been violated. 57 Further, the assessee company could not demonstrate that
 it has performed any single activity in furtherance of its
 objects either before the lower authorities or during the
 course of marathon arguments placed before this Tribunal.
 The contention raised by the assessee that acquisition of
 AJL was in furtherance of the objects of the assessee
 company is patently false as submitted in earlier part. Even
 from the Income-tax Returns, Ld. Spl. Counsel pointed out
 that, it can be seen that no expenditure has been made in
 any of the assessment years in furtherance of any of the
 objects till the cancellation of registration. It is an admitted
 fact that AJL was not publishing any newspaper either in
 print or digital form during the entire period. Hence, it can
 be easily deduced that the only reason to take over AJL
 was to commercially exploit its immovable asset. It cannot
 be held that by taking over the said company, the assessee
 would have been fulfilling its objects. Even after take over,
 no activity was done by the AJL to revive the newspaper
 business for a period of five years, it was only after the
 enquiry by the Revenue, and the proceedings for eviction
 initiated from the Land and Development Officers that the
 steps were taken for revival of business. The
 commencement of resuming the newspaper business in
 September 2016 was done much after the assessee has
 written to the Revenue surrendering its registration. Thus, ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 76 the contention of the assessee that later on the newspaper
 business was started is of no consequence. The entire
 theory of revival of publishing newspaper business was
 after the AJL realized that it was in violation of clause of
 Perpetual Lease Deed of the Property, housed in 5A,
 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi. 58 Another contention raised by the ld. counsel of the
 assessee that AJL had converted itself into section 8 company in January, 2016 as per Companies Act, 2013 ,
 i.e., non-profitable Company, enabling Young Indian, which
 was section 25 company as per Companies Act, 1956 , to
 carry out its objectives. The contention raised was that
 both the companies were not for profit and therefore, any
 profit derived from its activities would have been solely
 applied for the promotion of the objects. In support,
 evidences have been filed in form MGT-14 along with
 amended MoA filed with the additional evidence. He
 pointed out that no such application is available on the
 MCA Website, as having been filed by AJL and most
 importantly, no license has been granted by the Registrar
 of Companies till date so as to establish that AJL had
 become a section 8 Company. Thus, it cannot be said that
 AJL was converted into section 8 Company. Mere
 amending the MoA of AJL does not lead to any inference
 that it is a non-profitable company. Till license is granted ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 77 by ROC u/s. 8 of the Companies Act, 2013, it cannot claim
 that it is a non-profitable company. MoA can be amended
 at the sweet will and at any point of time and therefore,
 mere amendment in MoA will not serve the purpose. Even
 otherwise also, from the year 2011 when so called MoA was
 amended, nothing has been done till 2016 to align the
 functioning of the two companies. It cannot be the
 contention of the ld. counsel that since the company has
 adopted the changes in MoA, it has practically all the
 attributes a section 8 Company, is fallacious because it is
 always open to a company to amend its MoA and become a
 non- sec. 8 company anytime at its choice. Thus, to say
 that acquisition of AJL was to further the objects of the
 assessee company are not supported by such untenable
 propositions. 59 Regarding the contention that the cancellation of
 registration cannot be done retrospectively, Mr. Srivastava
 submitted that the Commissioner had the statutory power
 to cancel the registration u/s. 12A from the year 2004 and
 the same can be cancelled u/s. 12AA (3) where the
 Commissioner finds reason to believe that either the
 activities of the assessee are not in line with its objects or
 activities carried out by the assessee are not genuine.
 Knowledge of breach of conditions laid down in section
 12AA (3) would only come to the notice of CIT after the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 78 breach had been committed and if such a breach is
existing from day one then cancellation would always follow
from the date of breach. The provision of section 12AA(3)
cannot be read to mean that CIT has to disregard the
period during which the breach occurs and he has the
power to cancel the registration only from the future years. Such an argument is untenable and in support, strong
reliance was placed by him on the principle elucidated by
Hon'ble Madras High Court in the case of Prathyusha
Educational Trust vs. Pr. CIT (Tax Case appeal No. 366 to
368 of 2019 and CMP Nos. 12438, 12446, 12447, 12450
and 12452 of 2019 vide judgment dated 27.06.2019, where
their Lordships in para 22 of the judgment has made the
following observations: 60 In so far as the contention of the assessee that AJL is in
 the business of publication of newspapers and is not a Real
 Estate Company, is completely irrelevant in the matter at
 hand, because AJL is performing no activities in
 consonance with the objects of the assessee company. This
 is evident from the material placed on record even by the
 assessee that no activity of publication of newspaper was
 conducted by the AJL from 2008 to 2016 and in fact, it was
 enjoying rental income from properties. Whether there was
 temporary suspension or shut down of the publication
 business is not important and what is important is that
 whether AJL was still in the business of print media during
 the relevant time and was not mainly reaping the rental
 income from its properties. Furthermore, it is not the object ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 80 or goal of the assessee company to run a newspaper
 company or a Real Estate company enjoying rental income.
 Even in the tax audit report for the assessment year 2012-
 13 onwards, the AJL has shown business of newspaper
 publication and business of renting and leasing of
 properties. Accordingly, the entire thrust of the ld. counsel
 that it is not Real Estate Company will not make any
 difference because no publication of newspaper was done
 during the period nor it can be said that the publication of
 newspaper was in furtherance of the objects of the assessee
 company. 61 Another key contention raised by the ld. counsel was that
 Young Indian and AJL are two separate and independent
 companies having a separate legal character from that the
 shareholders. It was contended that the share holders have
 no right in the property vested with the company and can
 only seek dividend and bonus on the shares and therefore,
 change in the ownership of the AJL would not make them
 owners of the said property. In support, strong reliance was
 placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
 case of Mrs. Bacha F. Guzdar (supra). To rebut such a
 pleading, Mr. Srivastava, placed before us two judgments of
 Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court (Delhi) in the case of Associate Journals Ltd. vs. Land & Development Office .
 Drawing our attention to the Division Bench order and ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 81 judgment dated 28.02.2019 (LPA 10 of 2019 and CM No.
 566/2019 and 649/2019), he submitted that identical
 submissions have been considered by the Hon'ble High
 Court and the matter regarding lifting of corporate veil was
 subject matter of detailed consideration by the Hon'ble
 court. After reading various arguments placed by both the
 parties before the Hon'ble Court, he drew our attention to
 para 65 and 66 of the judgment wherein this issue has
 been discussed threadbare. He submitted that if the
 company has been found to evade the obligation under law
 or indulged in any fraudulent activity under law or for the
 purpose of taking undue advantage or indulge in any
 fraudulent activity against the public interest, the doctrine
 of lifting of corporate veil can be invoked. The Hon'ble
 Court after examining this issue at length found that for
 assessing the actual nature of transaction or the modus
 operandi employed in carrying out a particular transaction,
 the theory of lifting of the corporate veil is permissible.
 Here also, in the given facts, this doctrine is squarely
 applicable and it is open for the Tribunal to see what is the
 actual nature of transaction in the backdrop of public
 interest or interest of the Revenue. Thus, the contention of
 the ld. counsel on this point cannot be sustained.
62 Coming to the issue of surrender of registration certificate,
 Mr. Srivastava submitted that the surrender of registration ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 82 was neither genuine nor bona fide. First of all, such an act
of surrender of registration is not permissible under the
law for the reason that the registration granted was not any
kind of award or some gratuitous action on the part of the
government which could be rejected by the recipient or
surrender the same after the receipt. The order of
cancellation of registration is a statutory order passed on
the basis of certain facts leading to the breach of the
conditions of registration and such breach cannot be
undone by voluntary surrender of registration. The
cancellation of registration has to be followed in accordance
with the statute. In so far as reliance placed by the ld.
counsel on the decision in the case of CIT vs. Mahindra
Mills (supra), he submitted that is completely ill founded
for the reason that the decision was rendered in the context
of section 32 . Later on, Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case
of Plastiblends India Ltd. vs. ACIT, 398 ITR 568, have
clearly held that the decision in the case of Mahindra Mills (supra) would not apply in the case of section 80IA, which
was a provision in Chapter VIA and constituted a code by
itself. The decision of Mahindra Mills (supra) would not
have any applicability in these circumstances. The
provisions contained in section 11 to 13 , governing charity
are equally a code itself and therefore, the decision
rendered u/s. 32 would not have any applicability under ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 83 such circumstances. Even otherwise also, the case of the
 Revenue is that the act of surrender was not bona fide as it
 was post enquiries conducted by the Revenue and the
 materials found which clearly showed that the assessee
 was not entitled for registration at all. Further, there was
 clear-cut breach of conditions of investment as provided
 u/s. 13(1) (d). After having realized that the registration
 could be withdrawn both for the breach of the conditions
 as mentioned in sub-section (3) and sub-sec. (4) of section
 12AA, the assessee company has written a letter of so
 called surrender of registration. Thus, said surrender was
 not bona fide and its activities were not in accordance with
 the objects and the real intent and motive and had failed to
 achieve the objectives for which it was created. The
 assessee company did not offer to surrender the
 registration from A.Y. 2011-12 when they acquire AJL, but
 only post year 2016. Thus, after enjoying benefit of
 registration, it was not open to the assessee to make
 voluntary surrender of registration for future years.
 Accordingly, the claim that surrender was bona fide cannot
 be accepted. REJOINDER BY THE APPELLANT

63 In the rejoinder proceedings, the ld. counsel for the
 assessee first of all vehemently objected on the reliance ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 84 placed on the judgments of Delhi High Court in the case of Associate Journals Ltd. (supra) on the ground that the
 same are subjudice. The ld. DR has relied upon various
 additional documents/orders, which were neither
 confronted to the assessee by the ld. CIT (E) nor were
 available at the time of passing the impugned cancellation
 order and, therefore, are wholly irrelevant in the present
 appeal. The ld. DR is trying to make out new case based on
 some additional evidences and the same ought not to be
 considered. 64 Now again in the rejoinder stage Assessee Company has
 filed another set of additional evidences paper book
 (marked as AE P B-2). These additional evidences contain
 list of 34 documents. It has been stated to be because of
 the fact that, department has placed additional papers and
 submissions, which were not discussed in the order of Ld.
 CIT (E) and certain allegations, have been made which are
 not part of cancellation proceedings. 65 As far as placing of heavy reliance on (i) order of the
 Hon'ble Delhi High Court dated Dec. 21, 2018 in the case
 of, i) Associated Journal Ltd. & Anr vs. Land &
 Development Office in WP. (C) 12133/2018 and CM
 47131/2018; and (ii) order of Delhi High court dated
 28.02.2019 in the case of The Associated Journal Lt. &
 Anr. Vs. Land & Development Office in LPA 10/2019 and ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 85 CM Nos. 566/2019 &649/2019, he pointed out that the
 proceedings, pursuant to the said judgment of High Court
 have been stayed by Hon'ble Supreme Court vide order
 dated 05.04.2019 in SLP to Appeal (C) No. 7345/2019 and
 the matter is presently pending for disposal before the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court. Thus, the said order cannot be
 considered for the purpose of deciding the present appeal.
 Once the Apex Court has stayed the operation of Delhi
 High court order, the same became inoperative and
 therefore, inadmissible as on date. In view of such
 submissions, the ld. counsel prayed that this Tribunal
 firstly should not allow the Revenue to place reliance on
 the aforesaid orders and should not take into cognizance
 the points of law applied/ propounded on the said order;
 and secondly, without prejudice in case the judgments are
 to be considered, then it amounts to pre-judge the issue
 which is presently subjudice and therefore, the matter
 should be adjourned till the matter is decided by Hon'ble
 Apex Court. 66 Reacting strongly to the said request made by the ld. counsel for the assessee, Mr. G.C. Srivastava submitted
 that it is completely erroneous to say that the operation of
 order has been stayed, albeit what has been stayed is, the
 further proceedings pursuant to the High Court order, i.e.,
 direction for eviction proceedings of the building and not ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 86 the entire order. Even otherwise also, if any further
 proceedings have been stayed that does not mean the order
 of Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court becomes inoperative
 and in so far as the findings and principles propounded
 therein is a binding judicial precedence to the
 courts/Tribunals under the same jurisdiction.
67 As a rejoinder to various submissions made by the ld. Special Counsel for the Revenue, he submitted that first of
 all it has been accepted by the department before this
 Tribunal that publication business of AJL was suspended
 several times in past and got revived time and again. This
 is evident from the chart of dates and events submitted by
 the Revenue prior to 2008. In so far as the effect of said
 order of Hon'ble Supreme Court on the judgment of Delhi
 High Court order, he submitted that the said order has to
 be treated to be non-operational because it indicates that
 either the order is passed on wrong facts or law has not
 been applied correctly. In support, he relied upon the
 judgment of Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs.
 Bhushan Steels Pvt. Ltd. , 398 ITR 216 wherein the SLP
 filed against the said judgment was admitted by the
 Supreme Court and the order was stayed and on this
 background, the Hon'ble High Court in the case of
 Sunbeam Auto Pvt. Ltd. (WP(C) 8941/2015 decided not
 to follow the earlier decision of Bhushan Steel Pvt. Ltd. (supra) on the ground that the same has been stayed by
 Hon'ble Supreme Court. Similarly, in the judgment of
 Calcutta High Court in the case of Exide Industries Ltd. vs.
 UOI (292 ITR 470)wherein it was held that the provisions of
 section were unconstitutional. However, the said order has
 been stayed by Hon'ble Supreme Court and in background
 of such stay order; various courts have held that the
 decision of Calcutta High Court cannot be followed. In
 support, he has referred to catena of judgments, for
 instance, Dhanlakshmi Bank Ltd. v. CIT (2019) 102
 taxman 442 (Kerala), South Indian bank limited V CIT 45
 taxmann.com 428. 68 In so far as reliance placed by the ld. Special Counsel for
 the Revenue on the judgment of Single Judge of Hon'ble
 High Court in the case of Associate Journal Ltd. which was
 upheld by the Division Bench in LPA No. 10/2019, wherein
 there is an observation that only when relevant authorities
 initiated inspection, the AJL decided to resume his press
 activities so as to save the lease of the properties from
 being cancelled by the Government. In this regard, he
 submitted that way back on 23.01.2014; AJL had filed a
 letter to Registrar for News Papers of India, copy of which
 has been placed at page 267 of the paper book-1 filed by
 the assessee, which clearly indicated the intention to
 resume the newspaper activities. Such an allegation made ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 88 by the ld. Special Counsel that the decision of printing was
an afterthought gets demolished for the reason that this
inspection of LDO had occurred only in September 2016.
He also pointed out following dates and events occurred
prior to first notice of inspection by the LDO: • AJL's plans for construction of printing press at Mumbai
 property was sanctioned by the relevant Authorities in
 2013 and 2016. A copy of the sanctioned plans is set out at
 page 533 to 538 of AE - PB II. The same clearly shows the
 area pertaining to Press is demarcated on those plans;
 • On February 22, 2013, the Board of Directors of AJL noted
 in its meeting that the publication of National Herald would
 be considered on web-site. A copy of the said minutes is
 enclosed at page 539 of AE -- PB II. • On September 12, 2014, the internet / web domain
 name www.nationalherald.com was registered. The
 necessary registration proof is enclosed at page 540 of AE -
 PB II. (However, since the actual commencement took time,
 the said approval expired and a new approval of domain
 name was taken on 03.11.2016). • In the February 24, 2016 Board Meeting, the rough
 estimates of monthly expenditure for publishing the
 newspapers was discussed. The extracts from the minutes
 of the said meeting are enclosed at pg. 541 of AE -PB II. • On July 10, 2016, Zee News writes a report titled "Eight
 years after it was shut down, Congress re-launch National
 Herald news paper". Please see at Pg. 542 of AE-PB II. • In August 2016, the Editor-in-chief was appointed. In fact,
 the news report of Zee News (cited above) clearly cites AJL
 as informing in its July 10, 2016 news report, inter alia,
 "we are now close to finalising the editor's name for
 operations to start..." 69 Ld. Counsel submitted that the first notice of inspection
 was only on 06.09.2016 and second notice on 26.09.2016,
 whereas the preparation for starting the press activities
 happened since the year 2010, thus, it cannot be held that
 it was purely an afterthought and such an activity was
 decided to be resumed only after LDO inspection. He also ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 90 referred to further events following the first inspection by
the LDO as under: 148. That order is subject matter of appeal to the Hon'ble
 ITAT. That appeal is presently pending. Any decision in this
 appeal based on reliance on the Hon'ble high Court order
 would amount to even pre-judging the outcome of the appeal
 against the order u/s. 148 ! Can this be permitted to be done?
 In Appellant's humble submissions - "NO"." 70 Ld. Counsel submitted that in any case, Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court order vindicates the assessee's submissions in so far
 as Allotment of property to AJL is on the condition that ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 92 some specified part of it must be used for news paper
 business; • If it is not so used, the property is liable to be
 resumed by the concerned authorities; • Consequently, AJL is a "news paper" company and
 NOT a "real estate company" as alleged by the Id. CIT.
 On this ground itself, the foundation of the CIT's
 cancellation order gets demolished. 71 As regards the allegation made by the Revenue that the
 assessee had not disclosed correctly the assets, liabilities,
 estimate of income & expenditure and, therefore, the
 registration has been obtained by suppressing the material
 facts, the ld. counsel submitted that Rule 17A, as it then
 stood, required submission of accounts relating to prior
 years in cases where the company has been in existence
 during any year or years, prior to the financial year in
 which the application for registration is made. Since the
 Appellant was incorporated on November 23, 2010, and the
 application was dated March 29, 2011, this requirement
 was "not applicable". Form 10A, being the application for
 registration requires, at item no. 2 to provide copies of
 accounts for latest 1/2/3 years. Since the application
 dated 29.03.2011 was filed on 31.03.2011, the accounts
 for the first financial year were not prepared. The Appellant
 could have very well mentioned "Not Applicable" against ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 93 item no. 2. However, out of good governance, the Appellant
submitted the same documents that were submitted to the
ROC on October 15, 2010 for the purposes of section 25 license. Requirement of filing "Future annual income and
expenditure estimates" and "Assets and Liabilities
Statement with their estimated values as on seven days
before making the estimate" are the requirements under
the Companies Act, 1956 for obtaining licence u/s. 25 and
not under the IT Act for obtaining registration u/s. 12AA
r.w.r. 17A. However, the said documents, out of good
governance, were also submitted along with the application
for registration u/s. u/s 12AA. This also explains why the
date mentioned on Annex 5A and 5B is "October 14, 2010".
Therefore, the allegation that registration is obtained by
suppression of material facts is without any basis. Besides
this, the only other requirement in Rule 17A is to provide
the instrument of formation of the trust / institution,
which was also duly furnished. The Ld. CIT then granted
registration based on the documents that are required to
be submitted under the law. In such a case, the allegation
that the registration is obtained by misrepresentation and
suppression of facts is baseless. The ld DR has also
laboured on the note on page 7 of the Revenue Paper Book
to contend that on May 9, 2011, the Appellant did not
disclose the activity of acquiring shareholding in AJL, ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 94 which it undertook in February 2011. Thus, as per the Id
 DR, the Appellant supplied wrong information and hence
 the registration is liable to be cancelled. In this behalf, he
 submitted as under: • This requirement is for "plan of action for the main
 charitable activities to be undertaken by you during
 the next two years"; • Thus, the note focused on the future activities and
 not on the past activities. The fact that the note is
 pursuant to the said requirement of item 3 is very
 evident from the plain reading of requirement at item
 3 and the reading of the covering letter dated May 9,
 2011. Thus, there was no requirement of disclosing
 the assets acquisition, viz. shares in AJL and
 therefore, there was no suppression of facts by the
 Appellant as alleged by the Ld. DR. • In any case, acquisitions of shares of AJL were
 preparatory activity. Preparing to create a platform
 through which YI can reach out to Youth. 72 Besides, the crux of the allegation is that the CIT would not
 have granted the registration had the acquisition been ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 95 disclosed. He submitted that acquisition of shares of AJL
was a preparatory exercise towards its objects. Even if the
disclosure was made, how is borrowing of loan and
acquisition of shares of AJL a "non-genuine" activity? In
support he relied upon judgment of Rajasthan High Court
in Indian Medical Trust v. PCIT (414 ITR 296) wherein it
was held that where the acquisition of shares is in
furtherance of its objects then the same could not be
regarded as a non- genuine activity. In said case,
investment made by the assessee in a TV channel was held
to be in a genuine activity as it was in accordance with the
objects of the assessee since it furthered it objects. Thus, in
view of the above, there is no substance in the contention
of the Id. DR that the note did not talk about the activity of
acquiring shares in AJL in February 2011. The said
argument of the Ld. DR is not even alleged by the Ld. CIT
in his cancellation order and it is not the basis of
cancellation. How can the Id DR be permitted to say this at
this stage? In support of such a contention, reliance was
placed on the decision in the case of Welham Boys' School
Society v. CBDT [2006] 285 ITR 74 (Uttaranchal), wherein
it is held that where in the show cause notice or in the
impugned order, the Commissioner had not alleged that
the assessee had obtained the registration by practicing ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 96 fraud or forgery, said ground cannot survive before the
 Court. 73 Further, the Jurisdictional High Court has, in case of Maheshwari Mandal (Delhi) vs The State of Delhi &Ors (W.P. (C) 2029/2016 and CM Nos. 8748/2016,
 21328/2016 and CRL. M.A. Nos. 5911/2017 &
 6253/2017) held that where in the original proceedings it
 was not alleged that registration was obtained by fraud
 then said ground cannot be taken during appeal. The
 relevant extract of the judgment is as under: Undisputedly, the same cannot be construed as a
 finding of fraud." 74 As regards the reference made by the Revenue to the Deed
 of Assignment of loan owned by AJL to AICC amounting to
 Rs. 90.21 crores for a consideration of Rs. 50 lakhs, the ld.
 counsel submitted that this fact was duly disclosed in the
 audited accounts of the assessee by way of note and the
 said note clearly explains the second leg of the transaction,
 namely, acquisition of shares in lieu of loan. Besides this,
 there is no reference to the Assignment Deed in the
 impugned order of the ld. CIT (E) and neither the assessee
 was asked to explain it before the ld. CIT (E) before passing
 the cancellation order. Effectively, the Appellant has
 acquired shares in majority shares in AJL. Such
 acquisition is a preparatory activity in pursuance of its
 objects as has been extensively elucidated in the course of
 arguments of the Appellant. AJL is a newspaper company,
 which provides a ready platform for the Appellant to
 achieve its objectives. The Assignment Agreement has no
 reference in the CIT's cancellation order. Indeed, the said
 assignment is not the basis of cancellation. The basis of
 cancellation is the second leg, namely, the Appellant's
 investment in shares of AJL, which, according to the Id.
 CIT, is a real estate company. It is submitted that the
 Hon'ble Tribunal cannot draw any adverse inference from
 the Assignment Agreement since the CIT has not drawn,
 nor has the Id. CIT required the Appellant, before passing ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 98 the cancellation order, to show cause why adverse
 inference should not be drawn from the said agreement. 75 Regarding the allegation of ld. representative of the
 department that the assignment of loan converted into
 shares of AJL is only activity and besides this, no activity
 was carried out, he clarified that acquisition of shares in
 AJL is a preparatory activity in pursuance of the objective
 of the Appellant. This fact has been disclosed in the notes
 to Audited Accounts of March 31, 2011 in the following
 manner:- 76 In so far as the reference made by the ld. Special Counsel
 that the loan of Rs. 90 crores was transferred by AICC to
 Young Indian on 16.12.2010, however, the loan was
 assigned through letter on 28.12.2010, he clarified that
 Assignment Agreement dated 28.12.2010 was the final duly
 stamped Assignment Agreement. The original assignment
 was on ledger paper, the date of journal entry was in fact
 18.12.2010 and was inadvertently typed as 16.12.2010,
 and the same was a clerical error. Besides, the assignment
 of loan and conversion thereafter into equity shares of AJL
 followed by conversion of AJL into a non-profit organization
 are all different steps in the process of enabling the
 assessee to achieve its objectives of reaching out to the
 youths of India in pursuance of its charitable objectives
 through the platform of AJL by reviving AJL's publication
 activities. In any case, this was not the basis of
 cancellation by the ld. CIT (E) and therefore, no adverse
 inference can be drawn from the alleged fact.
77 One of the points raised by the ld. DR was that loan from
 AICC to AJL was not disclosed in AJL's annual report and
 it was argued that annual report of AJL for the year 2010
 shows unsecured loan of Rs. 89.67 crores as on
 31.03.2010 and the nature of which was explained in
 schedule-X of the report. In rejoinder, the ld. counsel
 submitted that such an allegation is baseless because in ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 100 order to substantiate that loan given by the AICC to AJL is
genuine, following material facts are relevant in this regard: Ltd. of Rs. 1 crore at 14% interest and utilization thereof
 for payment to AICC of Rs. 50 lakhs, do not appear to be in
 line with the stated objects of the assessee. First of all, the
 ld. counsel submitted that this report was never confronted
 to the assessee by the CIT (E) and it was for the first time,
 such a report has been shown in this court. Secondly, the
 said document itself states that the information shared
 therein may be used for intelligence purposes only and
 should not be used or disseminated for evidential or
 judicial purposes. Further, this document cannot be taken ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 103 into account as evidence in any proceedings. In any case,
 the loan taken by the assessee is part of the objects (clause
 18 of its MoA), hence, there is no merit that the loan does
 not appear to be in line with the stated objects of the
 entity. The payment of Rs. 50 lakhs for consideration of
 assigning of loan was duly disclosed in the audited
 accounts for the year ending 31.03.2011 by disclosing the
 conversion of shares of AJL and this exercise is in
 pursuance to the main objects of Young Indian. The STR
 report is dated 07.02.2011 and the assessee has disclosed
 the transaction in its audited account for the financial year
 2010-11 filed along with the Income Tax Return on
 11.10.2011 and the Assessing Officer had initiated enquiry
 only in July, 2015, i.e., after more than four years. Further,
 this action was not the basis for impugned cancellation
 order. 80 He further submitted that the loan was obtained from "R.P.
 Goenka Group Co.", which has listed companies. Further,
 while the loan would have been repaid from year to year
 and TDS has been deducted on year-to-year basis,
 therefore, nothing turns to the fact that the loan was repaid
 in A.Y. 2015-16. The repayment was possible only after
 certain donations were received during the F.Y. 2015-16. 81 In so far as, the allegation of the ld. DR that AJL has not
 filed necessary forms with the ROC to take interest in
 converting into non-profit entity, reference was made to
 Form MGT-14 to allege that there is no SRN number
 mentioned on the said form and therefore, this is evidence
 created by the assessee. In this regard, he submitted that
 an extra ordinary meeting of shareholders of AJL was held
 on 21.01.2016 for which the notice was sent to all the
 shareholders on 19.12.2015. The meeting was, thereafter,
 convened and resolution was passed to convert the
 company into non-profit company. Form MGT-14 was filed
 with the ROC on 19.02.2016 under "SRN C79224572".
 Post filing of said form, on 25.02.2016 an email was
 received from MCA asking for re-submission with certain
 remarks and in response thereto said form was re-
 submitted on 10.03.2016 and along with said re-submitted
 form, the appellant enclosed the letter dated 10.03.2016
 explaining why the remarks in the MCA's email have
 fallacies. Thereafter, nothing has been heard from ROC and
 there is still stalemate. In any case, once the amended MoA
 has been approved by the shareholders then the same was
 binding on all the shareholders, which is binding and
 effective on the company whether or not license is granted.
82 Further, the ld. counsel submitted that the reliance placed
 by the department on the judgment of Delhi High Court on ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 105 the proposition that firstly all the arguments made by the
 assessee in the present appeal were also made before the
 Hon'ble High Court but the same have been rejected; and
 secondly, that in this case corporate veil ought to be lifted
 has been upheld by the Hon'ble High Court. He submitted
 that the whole argument of lifting the corporate veil in the
 case before the Hon'ble High Court is to buttress the point
 that by acquiring the shares of AJL, the Appellant has
 acquired the properties of AJL and such acquisition
 amounts to "transfer" of the property by AJL, though not by
 way of sale or mortgage or gift, but "otherwise". This is
 interpretation of clause 111(13) of the lease deed. However,
 for the language in the said lease deed, the question of
 invoking the principles of lifting of corporate veil would not
 have arisen even before the Hon'ble High Court. The issue
 in the present case is under the provisions of Income tax
 Act, 1961 and there is no similar language in the Act as in
 the lease deed interpreted by the Hon'ble High Court.
 Accordingly, in the present appeal, reliance on the Delhi
 HC order for arguing lifting of corporate veil is completely
 misplaced. 83 Ld. Counsel submitted that what is to be considered is: 84 During the course of hearing, the ld. DR has also relied on
 various proceedings in respect of notice issued u/s. 133(6) to the assessee to argue that the assessee had not
 submitted information called for and tried to evade the
 proceedings. He submitted that first of all such argument
 has no relevance to the issue in hand because whether the
 assessee had complied with the notice issued u/s. 133(6) or not in past was not the subject matter of consideration
 in the show cause notice issued by the ld. CIT (E) for
 cancellation of registration and has no relevance for
 determining whether the registration can be cancelled.
 They have no connections, whatsoever. What is relevant is ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 109 that the cancellation proceedings of registration u/s. 12AA
 will start after a valid show cause notice and registration
 can be cancelled only when activities of the assessee are
 found to be non-genuine or are not in accordance with its
 objects. It cannot be cancelled merely on the ground that in
 some independent proceedings, the assessee allegedly did
 not cooperate with the Tax Department. There is no such
 reference even in the impugned order. 85 Without prejudice, it was submitted that most of the
 information called for through various notices and
 enquiries, were in any way available with the department
 as they were either already submitted by the appellant in
 other proceedings or were publicly available in public
 domain. Thus, there was no suppression of facts. One of
 the main reasons of the complaint against the department
 raised by the assessee before the higher authorities was
 that the details submitted in response to notices were being
 leaked to the political opponents, which was in violation of section 138 of the Act. All these enquiries were purely part
 of political witch-hunt and therefore, the assessee-
 appellant objected to the said enquiries.
86 Coming to the arguments regarding surrender of
 registration by the assessee and heavy reliance placed by
 the ld. DR on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in
 the case of Plastibends India Ltd. (supra) for the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 110 proposition that the decision of Mahindra Mills Ltd. (supra)
 is not applicable to the provisions of registration u/s.
 12AA, the ld. counsel, referring to the judgment in the case
 of Plastibends (supra) submitted that the decision of
 Hon'ble Supreme Court was based on the fact that in the
 case of 80IA deduction, the assessee would claim double
 benefits and revenue would bear double loss. Therefore,
 option theory is referred to as "anathema" and a "device".
 Here, on surrender of registration, there is no benefit to the
 assessee albeit surrender would mean additional tax
 revenues in case of profits. Therefore, rejection of option
 theory in the context of not claiming depreciation for 80IA
 units cannot be extended for rejecting the option of
 claiming an exemption u/s. 11 . 87 In so far as contention raised by the Revenue that
 surrender is not permissible and there is no process of law,
 it is submitted that there is no provisions under the Act to
 deny the power of voluntary surrender of the registration
 under the Act and therefore, the argument based on
 'process of law' is unsustainable as the law does not
 prohibit the voluntary surrender. In any case, the decisions
 on surrender of Excise registration cited by the Appellant
 in its earlier arguments lay down the 'process of law' that
 the surrender should be acted upon by the department in a
 reasonable period or else such surrender is deemed ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 111 effective after such reasonable period. As submitted earlier,
 in the present case the reasonable period could only be six
 months whereas the Ld. CIT (E) initiated the process after
 about 17 months. 88 As regards reliance placed on the judgment of Madras High
 Court in the case of Prathyusha Educational Trust (supra)
 on retrospective cancellation of registration u/s.
 12A/12AA, the ld. counsel submitted Hon'ble Allahabad
 High Court in the case of Agra Development Authority (supra) has clearly held that CIT (Exemption) is not
 empowered to cancel registration with retrospective effect,
 i.e., prior to the date of issuance of order/notice. To the
 same effect, there is another judgment of Hon'ble
 Rajasthan High Court in the case of Indian Medical Trust
 vs. PCIT, 414 ITR 296. Therefore, if there are to views, then
 the view favorable to assessee should be followed in line
 with the principle of law laid down by Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of Vegetable Products 88 ITR 192. The ld.
 DR has also argued that it was for the first time that young
 Indian is contending that acquisition of shares of AJL is
 towards its objects. Such an argument is devoid of any
 basis because the same is evident from the following facts: 89 As regards the issue, whether AJL is Real Estate Company
 or not, the ld. DR has submitted that the foundation of
 CIT(E)'s order is not based on the AJL as a Real Estate
 Company, which is not correct because in entire order, the
 ld. CIT(E) has referred at various places that AJL is a Real
 Estate Company. Now the ld. DR wants to make out some
 new case and diluting his arguments, which should not be
 permitted. 90 One of the arguments raised by the ld. DR was that the
 rental income amounts to real estate business, which
 cannot be appreciated in view of the law under the IT Act and reference of any dictionary meaning taken by the ld.
 DR should not be taken into cognizance. For example,
 many government owned companies like Air India and
 another such companies who own hundreds of buildings in
 the country have leased out some of the premises that does ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 113 not make them Real Estate Company. Even the Company
 Identification Number issued by the Registrar of
 Companies to AJL refers to Industry Code pertaining to
 publishing of periodicals and journals and not that of
 operating of real estate business. 91 Another argument taken by the DR was that AJL stopped
 business and all employees were discharged and what was
 left was properties only and therefore, by acquiring the
 shares of AJL the assessee has acquired the properties
 which is not the object of the assessee. Such proposition is
 not correct on the facts and material on record because
 AJL did not stop the business, but there was a temporary
 suspension. Even otherwise, also, any person who acquires
 the share of a company whose predominant assets are
 immovable properties, then such shareholder does not
 acquire the property himself. The assessee's submission
 throughout has been that the rental income was incidental
 to the newspaper business and every license allowed for
 newspaper business require that certain portion of the
 properties ought to be used for printing press and balance
 can rented out. Every newspaper company has significant
 rental income. 92 Coming to the question raised by the ld. DR that how the
 publication furthers the objects of Young Indian, he
 submitted that assessee has already argued at length that ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 114 the newspapers activity of AJL furthers the objects of the
 assessee and in support he also submitted at page 18 to 34
 of the paper book the data compiled from Google Analytics
 till date to show that there are almost 62% of the users of
 online news portal of AJL. Therefore, by this platform, the
 assessee has achieved success to approach the youths of
 the country. The ld. DR has also alleged that most of the
 articles published in the web under the tab 'Young India'
 are picked up from PTI is not entirely correct because AJL
 has published certain commemorative Edition of
 newspapers written by well-known personalities
 highlighting various aspects of our constitutional values
 like democracy, secularism, freedom of speech etc. This is
 how the objects of young India were achieved through the
 platform of AJL. Further the assessee has also filed
 circulation certificate issued by Audit Bureau of
 Circulations for the period January to June 2018 and July
 to December 2018 of National Herald on Sunday.
93 Another contention harped upon by the ld. DR was that
 whether or not AJL has real estate business; the effect is
 the same, in as much as acquisition of shares of both the
 companies is contrary to the objects of the assessee
 company. In this regard, he submitted that, where the
 acquisitions of shares are in furtherance of its objects then
 the same could not be regarded as not in accordance to its ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 115 objects. In this regard, reference is drawn to the decision of
the Rajasthan High Court in Indian Medical Trust v. PCIT
(414 ITR 296) wherein investment made by the assessee in
a TV channel was held to be in accordance with the objects
of the assessee since it furthered it objects. The relevant
extract is as under: • News papers are considered as the "fourth estate" of the
 country, ranking fourth after the first three being: Legislature,
 Executive and the Judiciary. The role of press is, as recognized
 by the Supreme Court in several cases to which references
 were made in the initial part of Appellant's submissions, is to
 further the constitutional values of democracy, secularism,
 freedom of speech etc. This indeed is the objective of the
 Appellant. Then how is acquisition of shares of AJL not in
 accordance with the object of the Appellant? 94 Lastly, the ld. counsel very strongly contended ld. Special
 Counsel for the Revenue has tried to make out new case or
 improved upon the order of CIT (E), cancelling registration
 u/s. 12AA, which is not permissible. In support, he
 strongly relied upon ITAT Special Bench decision in the
 case of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. v. DCIT (2009) 30 SOT
 374, which has been affirmed by the Hon'ble Bombay High
 Court (365 ITR 560). 95 With the permission of the court, Mr. G.C. Srivastava, ld. Special Counsel for the Revenue submitted that no new
 case has been made out by the department and it is
 completely misconceived assertion. The order of ld. CIT(E)
 proceeds on primary satisfaction recorded by him in para ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 117 15 & 17 and the entire course of the cancellation order is
 that activities of the appellant/assessee are neither
 genuine nor they have been carried out in accordance with
 its stated objects. He also referred to the judgment in the
 case of ACIT v. Prakash L. Shah (2008) 115 ITD 167,
 wherein the Tribunal has clearly stated that the DR can
 strengthen the view taken by the Assessing Officer from
 any angle, he likes, but can't bring out an altogether
 different case de hors the view of the Assessing Officer. The
 area of arguments of DR is unlimited but within the
 boundary limit marked by the Assessing Officer. He also
 distinguished the case of Mahindra & Mahindra (supra) but
 contended that in those cases Revenue was seeking to
 negate the findings already recorded by the Assessing
 Officer and DR argued in that case contrary to the finding
 of the ld AO. Thus, this case does not support the
 argument of the assessee. DECISION AND REASONS : Succinctly put, the entire wrangling of the assessee
 company is that retroactive cancellation is not justified,
 that is, between the periods 09.05.2011 to 21.03.2016.
 Cancellation post facto is not disputed rather assessee has
 acquiesced to such cancellation, albeit from 21 March
 2016. 97 The statute provides that if a trust or institution has been
 constituted to carry out the activities which are of
 charitable nature as defined in section 2(15) of the Act,
 then it can apply for registration through an application in
 prescribed form before the Pr. CIT or CIT u/s 12A/12AA on
 or before the expiry of period of one year from the date of
 creation of the Trust or establishment of the Institution.
 Upon such application, the Pr. CIT or CIT calls for such ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 119 documents or information from the Trust or institution, as
he thinks necessary in order to satisfy himself about the
genuineness of the activities and may make such enquiry,
as he deems necessary in this regard. On his being
satisfied about the genuineness of the Trust or Institution
and the genuineness of the activities, he can pass an order
granting registration to the said Trust; and if he is not
satisfied, then he can refuse to grant registration by way of
speaking order. After grant of such registration, the
assessee trust has to necessarily comply with the
conditions prescribed in section 11 to 13 and submit its
Income & Expenditure account in the prescribed form as
provided in the statute and relevant rules. The Statute
provides exemption of income of such Trust or Institution
subject to conditions prescribed under the Act and Rules,
provided, such Trust or Institution is carrying out activities
for charitable purpose and not only that, such activities are
carried out strictly in accordance with the objects, for
which it was created and also the activities should be
genuine. The onus is heavily upon the applicant
Trust/Institution to disclose fully and truly all material
facts and to clearly state the purpose and the nature of the
activities that it is supposed to carry out in terms of the
registration granted at the time of seeking registration u/s
12A/12AA. 98 We have already discussed in detail the facts and the chain
 of events starting from the date of incorporation of the
 assessee company till the grant of registration. From the
 facts and material as discussed above, the undisputed
 facts are reiterated in a succinct manner: ANNEXURE 5(B) - Assets & Liabilities Statement
 before the application. • Said annexures also included a note written to DIT
 (Exemption) vide letter dated 09.05.2011. The extract
 of the Note has already been incorporated in the
 foregoing para 10 of this order. Further, from a perusal of annexures and documents filed
along with application, it is seen that nowhere, the
assessee had even whispered about acquisition of AJL or
activities carried out by AJL or objects of the AJL or the
purpose for acquisition of AJL that it was in furtherance of
the objects of the assessee company, Young Indian. Since
the ld. DIT(E), based on the material facts placed before
him, found that the assessee's objects are charitable in
nature, he accordingly granted registration u/s. 12A r.w.s.
12AA(3) of the Act vide certificate dated 09.05.2011. As
pointed out by the ld. Special Counsel, Shri G.C.
Srivastava, on behalf of the Revenue, such a
certificate/order granting registration was subject to
various conditions and one very important condition was
mentioned, which provided that,

 "If later on, it is found that the registration has
 been obtained fraudulently by misrepresentation or
 suppression of any fact, the Registration so granted is
 liable to be cancelled as per provisions u/s 12AA (3) of
 the Act." 99 From the detailed discussion, made here in this order as
 well as chronology of events as discussed in the foregoing
 paras 5 & 6, it is fairly evident that the following material
 fact and information were not placed before the DIT(E) at
 the time of seeking registration: 100 Thus, from the aforesaid facts, it is palpable that Assessee
 Company, seeking registration as a charitable Institution,
 had not disclosed fully and truly all material facts with
 clear conscience and probity. Such facts, events and
 material should have been placed; and if on examination of
 such material facts, the ld. DIT (E) could have examined
 and taken decision for granting of registration. Then it
 could have been held that the assessee had discharged its
 onus with clean hands. Here not only there was
 misrepresentation but also the suppression of material
 facts before the ld. DIT (E) at the time of registration. Thus, ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 124 there was a clear-cut breach on part of the assessee
 company. If there was concealment and suppression of
 material facts, then such a registration granted is always
 open for cancellation or revocation at any time by the ld.
 DIT (E)/CIT (E) when it comes to his notice. In fact, this
 was one of the conditions mentioned while granting
 registration and such condition, in our opinion, has been
 clearly violated. 101 From the perusal of the impugned order of cancellation of
 registration and the replies submitted by the assessee
 before the ld. CIT(E), it is seen that nowhere the assessee
 has even mentioned or brought on record that the purpose
 for acquiring AJL was in furtherance of any of its objects
 which has been vociferously argued before us that, since
 AJL was into the business of publication of newspapers
 and the purpose of acquiring the AJL was to use the print
 media and digital media to promote the objects of Young
 Indian. We have gone through the replies filed by the
 assessee company before the ld. CIT (E) in the course of
 cancellation proceedings and we find that the assessee has
 nowhere stated that either the objects of the AJL were
 aligned with that of the assessee company and by acquiring
 the entire stake in AJL, the assessee was carrying out any
 charitable activities, for the purpose of which it was
 granted registration. When the ld. CIT(E) in his show cause ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 125 notice dated 21.08.2017 in para-5 clearly confronted the
 assessee that; firstly, only substantial activity undertaken
 by the appellant company was acquiring 99.99% of shares
 of AJL and AJL has been engaged in the Real Estate
 business and their source of income was rental income;
 secondly, asked the assessee to explain whether such
 activities of AJL are covered within the aims and objects of
 Young Indian; and lastly, whether these activities were in
 conformity with the terms and conditions of the
 registration granted u/s. 12AA to Young Indian, the
 assessee nowhere had clarified or sated that the purpose of
 acquiring AJL and its activities, except for reiterating that
 as a shareholder, Young Indian does not have any
 ownership interest, whatsoever, in the properties owned by
 AJL as it is a separate legal entity. 102 Now, what has been canvassed before us is entirely a new
 argument that the sole aim and objective of acquiring the
 entire stake holding in AJL was to carry out charitable
 activities for its objects, i.e., to spread democratic and
 secular values to the Youths of India through the medium
 of newspapers published by AJL. Now, in support of such
 newline plea, voluminous additional evidences have been
 filed before us on the ground that the ld. CIT (E) has
 wrongly held that AJL was into the Real Estate business
 and was carrying out commercial activities of construction ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 126 and sale of properties. In order to controvert such a
finding, assessee has filed hundreds of papers to show that
how the publication of newspapers and articles in print
media have been recommenced, when most of the
documents pertain to post 21.03.2016 when the assessee
had written a letter offering for suo moto surrender of
registration u/s. 12AA; and some are even post facto
cancellation order passed by the ld. CIT (E). Since we have
permitted the parties to argue and put forth all their
contentions to refer to all the additional evidences,
therefore, we are not rejecting the additional evidences.
Because, in our opinion they do not strengthen the case of
the assessee because the factum of printing and
publication of newspaper are post facto events when
assessee itself acquiesced to cancellation of registration
from March 2016. This is evident from the perusal of the
additional evidence paper book; whereby following
documents have been furnished:- 103 A bare perusal of the most of the documents, it is quite
 evident these are post surrender letter of the assessee filed ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 129 in March 2016 and some are even after the date of passing
of the impugned cancellation order. All these documents
merely go to show that AJL had recommenced or
endeavored to re-start the publication activity from the year
2016- 2017 onwards. As opined above, these documents
even if we admit, are not of much significance for the
reason that all these activities of printing and publication
of articles had started when the assessee itself had given
up its registration in March 2016. Prior to this date, it is an
admitted fact that publication of newspaper business of
AJL was suspended or as stated by the ld. counsel for the
assessee, there was temporary lull in the business for the
period 2008 to 2016. Neither between the periods 2011 to
2016, any such publication business had started nor has it
been brought on record before the ld. DIT (E) either at the
time of grant of registration or at the time of its
cancellation. As far as the documents, like resolution
passed by the board of directors of AJL on 26.09.2016;
letter written to Registrar, Newspapers of India dated
23.01.2014; Form No. 23 submitted by AJL to ROC on
29.09.2011 along with amended MoA and Form-14 etc.,
though indicate that AJL may had some kind of intention
to start the publication business, but such an intention
was never stated or canvassed before the departmental
authorities in the course of cancellation proceedings. It is ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 130 only when the ld. CIT (E) had made certain allegations in
the impugned order that the AJL had carried out some
activities of Real Estate, the assessee has taken this plea
before us to justify that it intended to carry out the
activities by acquiring AJL in furtherance of its main
objects. Great deal of arguments have been made by the
Ld. Counsel that publication business of AJL was a
platform to promote the ideals and objects of YI and press
being fourth estate of democracy is a powerful medium to
inculcate such ideals. First of all, press will be used as
medium to promote the objects of YI was never stated
earlier at any stage; nor there is one instance that YI has
ever used any other newspaper or media to propagate it's
so called objects or democratic secular ideals. Is it that only
AJL can be such medium and no other press company or it
is orchestrated defense in wake of various proceedings
initiated against it or is it to camouflage the real nature of
arrangements? Secondly, these pleadings and documents
only go to show that from the year 2107-18 some
newspaper articles have been published which assessee is
trying to link and align itself to prove its genuineness. All
such toll claims and publication of articles are from year
2017 onwards. Thus, these additional evidences do not
impinge upon the case of the assessee or in any way
strengthen the case of the assessee. 104 The ld. CIT (E) had raised various points in his impugned
 order for cancelling the registration, which has been
 summarized by him in para 17. Sequitur of his main
 charge/findings are that, firstly, the assessee could not
 furnish any details or evidences that the activities carried
 out by the assessee company during the A.Y. 2011-12 to
 2016-17 was in accordance with its objects or whether it
 had actually carried out any genuine activities. In fact, he
 noted that the return of income and annual report reveal
 that the assessee had not carried out any such activities
 which could be said to be in accordance with its objects.
 Secondly, he has also taken note of the fact that the
 expenditure of Rs. 50 lacs which has been stated to be for
 fulfillment of youth commitment for ideals of democratic
 and secular society, in fact, was payment for repaying back
 the loan amount on behalf of the AJL to AICC and
 acquisition of shares of AJL, and interest payment on loan
 of Rs. 1 crores. Thirdly, publication of newspapers of AJL
 had ceased to exist, etc. and the activities of AJL were into
 the Real Estate business and by acquiring AJL, the
 assessee is trying to manage, control and engage in Real
 Estate business of AJL. Lastly, the factum of suo moto
 surrender of registration u/s. 12A has also been found to
 be incorrect, as it was sequel to investigation by
 Investigation Wing since 2014 and based on these findings ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 132 and detailed discussion, he has held that he is not satisfied
 that the activities of the assessee are genuine or not carried
 out in accordance with its objects. 105 One of the key contentions raised and harped upon at
 length on behalf of the assessee, supported with catena of
 documents that AJL was never into Real Estate business,
 for which we have already discussed in detail the relevant
 arguments placed by the ld. counsel. Even if we agree, with
 the ld. counsel that AJL was not carrying out systematic
 commercial real estate business of construction and sale of
 shops or properties during the relevant period, but there is
 no denying fact that AJL had large number of properties
 worth hundreds of crores of rupees across the country and
 had huge rental income from such properties held from
 time to time. Though one of the main points harped upon
 by the ld. CIT (E) is that AJL is Real Estate Company may
 not be technically correct, but the ld. CIT (E) has not
 confined his finding merely that AJL is Real Estate
 Company and by acquiring AJL, the assessee company also
 acquired Real Estate business. 106 Other pivotal and underpinning reasons for cancelling the
 registration by the ld. CIT(E) are that the assessee company
 has not been able to point out any single activity carried
 out in furtherance of its stated objects, for which it was
 created during the said period, i.e., from A.Y.s 2011-12 to ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 133 2016-17; and the only activity of the assessee was
 borrowing of Rs. 1 crore from Kolkata based company and
 making the payment of Rs. 50 lakhs to AICC and applying
 for allotment of shares against cancellation of loan of Rs.
 90 crores assigned by AICC to Young Indian. All these
 activities definitely cannot be held to be in furtherance of
 the objects of the Young Indian, because at no point of
 time, it was ever stated what was the purpose and objective
 behind acquiring the AJL and making payment of Rs. 50
 Lakhs to AICC. As we have already held above, even if AJL
 was acquired for the purpose of stated objects, but that
 object was a nonstarter from day one and till the surrender
 of registration also, such an activity in furtherance of
 objects was never carried out. Rather, what is inferable is
 that, the entire move for acquiring the AJL, which had
 stopped/suspended its publication activities and was
 holding large number of properties worth hundreds of
 crores with huge rental and lease income was for acquiring
 control and interest in such properties for mere sum of Rs.
 50 Lakhs. Can prudence justify such acquisition was for
 furtherance of charity or for furtherance of the objects of
 the Young Indian? 107 Had the intention of the assessee company being clear and
 bona fide from the date of its inception, that it wanted to
 acquire AJL only to carry out its charitable activities, then ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 134 it should have been stated so and brought on record not
only at the time of seeking registration u/s. 12AA, but also
at the time of cancellation. The events clearly pointed out
that even before incorporation of Young Indian, the
registered office was shifted to Delhi and the Directors
managing the affairs of the assessee company were taken
on Board of AJL. Not only that, Young Indian was
permitted to use the property of AJL as its registered office.
Further, the manner, in which loan of Rs. 90 crores was
assigned by AICC to Young Indian for paltry consideration
of Rs. 50 lakhs does not reflect the real intent of the
transaction. Not all these facts indicate that the assessee
company had any clear conscience or intent for acquiring
the AJL to carry out the charitable activities. Not a single
such instance have been demonstrated that it had carried
out any activity in furtherance of its objects, nor any such
thing has been placed before us that it had carried any
activity between the years 2011 to 2016 or up to the date of
cancellation of registration. Even as noted by the ld. CIT (E)
that the Income-tax returns do not indicate that any
expenditure has been incurred in furtherance of the objects
except for payment of interest on loan borrowed from a
Kolkata based company. Once, AJL was not in publication
of any kind of newspaper in print or digital form during the
entire period, then it can be easily deduced that the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 135 intention was never to carry out any charitable activity by
 acquiring AJL. Even after takeover of AJL, no activity has
 been done by AJL at least for a period of 5 years. One of
 the main allegation of the ld. CIT (E) and ld. Special
 counsel was that, it was in wake of certain enquiries
 conducted by the Income Tax Department and proceedings
 of eviction initiated by the Land Development Office, steps
 were taken by the AJL for renewal of newspaper business;
 and even the so called resuming the newspaper business
 post September 2016, is much after the assessee had
 written to the department surrendering its registration.
 Thus, the entire contention as raised by the ld. counsel
 that the newspaper business was started later on, which
 indicates that AJL was acquired only to promote the ideals
 enshrined in the objects of Young Indian, belies all such
 intents and in fact the allegations that some printing work
 had started post inquiries by the Governmental authorities
 is convincing and probable. 108 Much emphasis has been laid by the ld. counsel that AJL
 has converted itself into a Section 8 company under the Companies Act 2013 in January, 2016, i.e., as a non-profit
 company, to carry out the objects of Young Indian and the
 objects of AJL were aligned with that of Young Indian. Such
 a contention is of no consequence for the reason that,
 firstly, it is an admitted fact that till date, the assessee had ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 136 not been granted license by ROC as Section 8 Company;
 and secondly, all these events have neither been stated by
 the assessee before the ld. CIT (E) and are post 2016. The
 amendment in MoA of AJL in the year 2011 is again of no
 consequence because till the year 2016, no such activity
 has been carried out by Young Indian through AJL. In any
 case, we are in tandem with the contention of the ld.
 Special counsel that merely adopting the changes in MoA
 does not make the company a Section 8 Company or a
 non-profitable company, because it is always open for the
 Board of Directors to amend its MoA and become a
 profitable company at any time and sweet will. Thus,
 acquisition of AJL to further the objects of the assessee
 company as purported by the ld. counsel, is not acceptable.
109 Before us, the ld. counsel had also submitted that way
 back on 23.01.2014, AJL had filed letter to Registrar for
 Newspapers of India, which indicates the assessee's
 intention to resume the publication activities. However, as
 we have held earlier, such an intention was never brought
 on record before the departmental authorities or even
 before the ld. CIT (E) during cancellation proceedings. Even
 filing of letter to Registrar for Newspaper of India to start
 the publication business, does not carry much weight,
 because admittedly, such an intention remained on paper
 and nothing had started prior to the year 2016-17 by that ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 137 time the assessee had already forgone its claim for
 registration u/s. 12AA. Acquiring and construction of
 various buildings of AJL at Panchkula, Mumbai etc. does
 not prove that the publication activities were carried out
 and even if there was some kind of future intent to do so,
 then also, it does not make AJL a newspaper publication
 company between 2008 to 2016, because not a single
 activity was carried out through which it can be inferred
 that AJL was acquired by YI to use the platform of
 newspaper publication, albeit entire conduct of the
 assessee company shows that AJL has been acquired for
 such nominal amount of Rs. 50 lakhs, to control and have
 interest in huge immovable assets of AJL throughout the
 country which were earning huge rental income, which was
 never the object of YI for which it was granted registration.
110 At the stage of hearing of this appeal, one very important
 material fact, which has been brought on record by the
 Revenue before us, are the judgments of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court. This judgment of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High
 Court clearly clinches the entire issue and supports our
 findings as given above. In the first judgment dated
 21.12.2018 passed by Hon. Single Judge in writ petition
 filed by the AJL, against notice sent by Land Development
 Office for eviction of the property known as 'Herald House,
 5A, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, the Hon'ble High Court had ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 138 categorically noted that at the time of inspection by LDO,
 no press activity was being carried out by AJL in the said
 property and in fact, it was rented out to various
 commercial establishments. After taking note of the
 inspection committee report, the Hon'ble court gave a
 categorical finding that no printing press was functioning
 and only National Herald weekly newspaper was stated to
 be published on 24.09.2017, which too was outsourced
 elsewhere. The Hon'ble Court has noted that press activity
 of editorial team was not discernible when the inspection of
 the premises was undertaken in the presence of the
 Chairman of AJL. The Court has also noted that the
 dominant purpose of leasing out the premises to AJL for
 publication has now practically lost and there is hardly any
 press activity. It has also been noted that AJL has been
 taken over by YI for all practical purpose.
111 The said judgment passed by the Hon'ble Single Judge was
 challenged by way of appeal before the Division Bench of
 Hon. Delhi High Court in LPA 10/2019 and CM No. 566 &
 649/2019. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court speaking through
 the Hon. Chief Justice, after considering the entire gamut
 of facts and arguments placed on record have not only
 upheld the judgment passed by the Writ Court earlier, but
 also gave very important observations based on material on
 record. The relevant observations and findings, which are ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 139 completely germane to the issue in hand before us, are
extracted as under: and the letter further says that preparations are in full swing
to resume publication of the newspaper in the current
financial year 2016-17. Referring to this letter, the learned
Solicitor General had argued that this letter was written only
for pre-empting the authorities so that they are not surprised
if no printing activities are found in the premises. In fact,
Sh.Tushar Mehta is right in contending that this was
an attempt by the appellants and, in fact, an
admission by them that no printing activity was being
carried out in the premises at that point of time. That
apart, when we go through the four show cause notices
available on record issued on 10th October, 2016, 5th April,
2018, 18th June, 2018 and 24th September, 2018 and the
reply filed thereto, we find that various breaches were ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 142 pointed out in all these show cause notices and they were
replied to by the appellant company and the cumulative
admitted position that can be made out from the reading of
these documents are as under. Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 50. When the premises was inspected on 26th
September, 2016, no press activity was being carried
out in the area. Press activity and publication of the
newspaper was suspended right from the year 2008
and all the employees were granted VRS. After the
communication dated 26th September, 2016 was made
by Sh. Motilal Vohra digital publication of the English
Versions of the newspaper, National Herald commenced
from 4th November, 2016. 51. Digital version of Urdu edition Qaumi Awaz commenced
on 12th August, 2017. Digital version of Navjivan, that is,
Hindi version commenced on 28th August, 2017 and the print
weekly newspaper, National Herald Sunday resumed
publication from 24th September, 2017 and it is the case of
the appellants that these newspapers were printed in a press
at Noida. Finally the printing of Hindi weekly newspaper
Navjivan commenced publication on 14th November, 2018
and the necessary license and authorization for the purpose
of publication indicated hereinabove was granted by the
Registrar of Newspapers for India on 21st November, 2017
available at page-581 is a certificate of registration issued by
Sh. K. Ganeshan, Registrar of Newspaper for India giving ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 143 registration certificate for a newspaper titled "National Herald
Sunday". Accordingly it is clear that publication of the
newspapers commenced after a gap of eight years as is
indicated hereinabove. If this is the factual position, it
can very well be concluded that on 26th September,
2016 when the first inspection took place, admittedly,
there was no printing of press or publication activity
and the digital versions in English commenced
publication only on 14th November, 2016, that is,
about one and half month after the inspection took
place on 26th September, 2016. Even though in the
breach notice dated 10th October, 2016, there is no
mention of there being no press activity but the
admitted position is that when this notice was issued
on 10th October, 2016 after inspection on 26th
September, 2016 and the admission of Sh.Vohra on
26th September, 2016 that there is no printing activity,
three other show cause notices were issued as have
been detailed hereinabove and in the final show cause
notice issued, that is, 24th September, 2018 before
taking the impugned action there is a mention about no
press activity being carried out in the premises when
the first inspection was ordered on 26th September,
2016. Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 57. The next issue which was vehemently canvassed before
us on behalf of the appellant was with regard to the transfer ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 144 of shareholding from AJL to Young India. It is the case of the
appellant that mere transfer of shareholding cannot be a
ground for holding that to be change of ownership or transfer
of the lease. Placing reliance on the judgment of Bacha F.
Guzdar (supra) detailed submissions were made by Dr.
Singhvi to emphasize that a shareholder only acquires a right
to participate in the profit of the company. He gets no interest
in the property of the company and even if the shareholders
of the company do have some voice in administering the
affairs of the company, but their interest is limited to sharing
the profits of the company and the company, a juristic person,
which is distinct from the shareholders still owns the
property. It is argued that in the backdrop of this legal
position even if some of the shares of the company have been
transferred that would not mean that the ownership of the
leased premises also get transferred to Young India Ltd. It
was emphasized that the ownership still remains even on
such transfer with AJL and the said transfer would not have
any effect on the ownership or transfer of the leased
premises. To consider this aspect of the matter, we are
required to take note of the shareholding pattern of both the
companies and the manner in which the transactions have
taken place and further in case the lifting of the veil theory is
applied, what would be its effect with regard to the issue in
question. 58. Indian National Congress sometimes referred to as
AICC had advanced a loan of Rs.90 crores to AJL. The loan ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 145 was advanced on the condition that the amount shall be
utilized by AJL to write off their accumulated debts and to
recommence publication of its newspaper. As per the facts
recorded by the co-ordinate Bench of this Court in its decision
rendered on 10th September, 2018 in W.P.(C) 8482/2018, the
books of account of AJL from 1st April, 2010 to 31st March,
2011 showed an outstanding debt of Rs.88,86,68,976/- and
it ultimately became Rs.90,21,68,980/- as on 15th December,
2010. On 13th August, 2010, an application was made for
incorporation of a charitable non-profit company (a company
under Section 25 of the Companies Act named Young India).
The application was in Form 1A with the competent statutory
authority and on 18th November, 2010 Young India was
incorporated and on 18.11.2010 license was granted and
ultimately on 23rd November, 2010 Young India was
incorporated with Sh.Suman Dubey and Sh.Sam Pitroda as
its founder Directors. This company had an authorized share
capital of 5,000 shares of Rs.100/- each valued at
Rs.5,00,000/- and the paid up share capital was 1100
shares of Rs.100/- each valued at Rs.1,10,000/- and the
company at that point of time had two shareholders, (a) Shri
Sam Pitroda - 550 shares valued at Rs.100/- each and (b)
Shri Suman Dubey - 5,000 shares valued at Rs.100/- each.
On 13th December, 2010, the first Managing Committee
Meeting of Young India took place and Shri Rahul Gandhi
was appointed as its Director, namely, a non-shareholder and
Shri Motilal Vora and Shri Oscar Fernandes as ordinary ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 146 members. Within five days thereafter, that is, on 18th
December, 2010, by a deed of assignment the loan of Rs.90
crores and odd outstanding in the books of Indian National
Congress as recoverable from Associated Law Journals for
the period 2002 to 2011 was transferred to Young India.
Three days thereafter, on 21st December, 2010, a Board
Meeting of AJL called for an EGM which was subsequently
held on 24th December, 2010 and on the said date a loan of
Rs.1 crore was received by Young India from another
company M/s Dotex and thereafter on 28th December, 2010
i.e. within a week a formal deed of assignment was executed
by AICC assigning the loan of Rs.90 crores in favour of Young
India. Immediately thereafter on 21st January, 2011, an EGM
of Associated Law Journal was held approving fresh issue of
9.021 crores shares to Young India and on 22nd January,
2011 i.e. on the next day the second Managing Committee of
Young India was held in which Smt. Sonia Gandhi, Mr.
Motilal Vohra and Mr. Oscar Fernandes were appointed as
Directors and the 550 shares of the existing shareholders of
Young India - Suman Dubey and Sam Pitroda were
transferred to Smt.Sonia Gandhi and Mr.Oscar Fernandes
and on the same day fresh allotment of Young India shares
were made in the following manner: (a) 1,900 shares having
paid up value of Rs.1,90,000/- to Shri Rahul Gandhi, (b)
1,350 shares with a paid up amount of Rs.1,35,000/- in the
name of Smt. Sonia Gandhi, (c) 600 shares with a paid up
value of Rs.60,000 in the name of Sh. Motilal Vohra and (d) ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 147 50 shares with a paid up value of Rs.5,000 in the name of
Sh.Oscar Fernandes and after issuance of PAN by the Income
Tax Department a bank account was opened by Young India
with Citibank on 14th February, 2011 and the cheque issued
by M/s Dotex for Rs.1 crore was deposited in the Young India
Bank account on the said day and on 26th February, 2011
Young India issued a cheque of Rs.50 lakhs to AICC as
consideration for assignment of Rs.90 crore debt payable by
ALJ to AICC. On the same day, i.e., 26th February, 2011, ALJ
allotted 9,02,16,899 equity shares to Young India in
pursuance to the AGM Meeting decision held on 21st
January, 2011 and the ALJ Board Meeting on 26th February,
2011 and thereafter Young India applied for exemption
under Section 12-A on 29th March, 2011 and on 9th May,
2011 the Income Tax Authorities granted the exemption with
effect from the F.Y. 2010-11. 59. Be that as it may, by the aforesaid transaction that
had taken place Young India acquired beneficial
interest on AJL's property which on the said date was
valued at more than Rs.400 crores on payment of a
sum of Rs.50 lakhs to AICC. This, according to the
respondent, if viewed in the backdrop of the purpose of
transfer lease and the modus operandi adopted is
nothing but a devise to transfer the property held on
lease from the Government by AJL, Young India which
became 99% or rather 100% shareholder of AJL. With
these facts, we now propose to examine the judgments relied ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 148 upon by both the parties to evaluate the legal implication and
the principles culled out from these judgments and examine
their applicability in the present factual matrix to decide the
issue of breach of conditions of the lease on this count. 60. In the case of Bacha F. Guzdar (supra) relied upon by Dr.
Singhvi, a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court has taken
note of certain judgments with regard to corporate identity
and a legal position with regard to the rights to property of a
company, a juristic person, and the relationship of a
shareholder with the company and its property, as canvassed
by Dr. Singhvi and as observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
the principle indicates that a shareholder acquires a right to
participate in the profit of the company but he does not
acquire any right or interest in the assets of the company. It
has been held that by investing money in the purchase of
shares the shareholder does not get any right to property of
the company though he acquires a right in the profits if and
when the company decides to divide it. Even though the
shareholder of the company have the sole determining voice
in administering the affairs of the company and are entitled to
as provided in the Articles of Association to declare the
dividends and distribute the profits of the company but their
right individually or collectively is nothing more than
participating in the profits of the company, it is held that the
company is a juristic person and is distinct from the
shareholders. In fact, it is the company which owns the
property and not the shareholder. The judgment further goes ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 149 to say that there is nothing in the Indian Law to warrant the
assumption that the shareholder who by his share buys any
interest in the property of the company which is a juristic
person entirely different from the shareholder. This in fact is
the law laid down by the Constitution Bench of the Supreme
Court in the aforesaid case. 61. It was vehemently argued by Dr. Singhvi that once this is
the accepted legal position that is culled out on a perusal of
the law laid down by the Constitution Bench, then by no
stretch of imagination can it be argued that on transfer of
shares of AJL to Young India Ltd., there is transfer of
ownership or lease or property as contemplated in clause
13(3) of the lease in question. By referring to the judgment in
the case of Monsanto Manufacturers (supra) and the terms
and conditions of the lease deed which prohibited transfer in
the said case and by comparing it to clause XIII(3) of the lease
deed in question, we were told that in the absence of there
being any specific prohibition permitting transfer of ownership
of shares or change in the Article of Memorandum, the finding
recorded with regard to transfer of ownership of the property
recorded by the learned writ Court and the competent
authority is unsustainable. The principles laid down in
judgment of the Supreme Court in M/s K.G. Electronics
(supra) and by this Court in DDA v. Human Care Medical
Charitable Trust were also relied upon to canvass this
contention. 62. On a consideration of the argument as canvassed by Dr.
Singhvi, at the first instance, the same looks very attractive
and the findings recorded may look to be unsustainable and
perverse, however, it is an equally settled principle of law
that in public interest and for assessing the actual nature of a
transaction or the modus operandi employed in carrying out a
particular transaction, the theory of lifting of the corporate veil
is permissible and a Court can always apply this doctrine to
see as to what is the actual nature of transaction that has
taken place, its purpose and then determine the question
before it after evaluating the transaction or the modus
operandi employed in the backdrop of public interest or
interest of revenue to the State etc. The theory and doctrine of
lifting of corporate veil had been considered by the Supreme
Court in the case of Gotan Lime Stone (Supra) and in the said
case, judgments in the case of Vodafone (supra) and Skipper
Construction (supra) etc. have been taken note of and in para
30, specific reference has been made to the Constitution
Bench judgment in the case of Bacha F. Guzdar (supra). After
referring to most of the judgments including the judgment in
the case of Bacha F. Guzdar (supra) relied upon by Dr.Singhvi
is referred to and finally the consideration to be made is
culled out in para 19 of the judgment in the following manner: 63. Thereafter, the learned Court proceeds to discuss
various issues and takes note of the fact that the
transaction in fact technically does not sell the lease right
but only shares are transferred and in para 24, it has been
held that the principle of lifting of corporate veil as an
exception to the distinct corporate personality of a company
and its member is recognized not only to unravel tax
evasion but also to protect public interest which is of
paramount importance and to prevent a corporate entity in
attempting to evade legal obligation. It has been held by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court after relying upon an earlier
judgment in the case of Workmen vs. Associated Rubber
Industries , (1985) 4 SCC 114 that this doctrine is employed
to prevent device and to avoid welfare legislation. After
observing so, various judgments of this Court including
Skipper Construction (supra) and the judgment of the House
of Lords in the case of Salomon v. Salomon, 1897 AC 22 is
taken note of and the cardinal principle laid down in the
case of Salmon v. Salmon (supra) with regard to the
company being a different person altogether from its
subscribers is taken note of and it is observed that since ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 152 after the judgment of Salmon (supra) the Courts have
recognized several exceptions to the rule laid down in
Salmon (supra) and one of the relevant exception is
that when a corporate personality is being blatantly
used as a cloak for fraud or improper conduct or
where the protection of public interest is of
paramount importance or where the company has
been formed to evade obligation imposed under the
law, the theory which has been described by certain
jurists as peeping behind the corporate veil
is employed and in para 27 and 29, the Hon'ble Supreme
Court goes to determine the doctrine in the following
manner: of Mining & Geology, (2013) 9 SCC 725 : (2013)
4 SCC (Civ) 559.] Cases of Arun Kumar Agrawal
v. Union of India [Arun Kumar Agrawal v. Union
of India, (2013) 7 SCC 1] (Vedanta case), Balco
Employees' Union v. Union of India [Balco
Employees' Union v. Union of India, (2002) 2
SCC 333] (Balco case) and Vodafone
International Holdings BV v. Union of
India[Vodafone International Holdings BV v.
Union of India, (2012) 6 SCC 613 : (2012) 3 SCC
(Civ) 867] cited by the learned counsel for the
respondent have no application to the present ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 154 case once real transaction is found to be
 different from the apparent transactions. In fact,
 the principle of law laid down in Vodafone case
 [ Vodafone International Holdings BV v. Union of
 India , (2012) 6 SCC 613 : (2012) 3 SCC (Civ)
 867] that the court can look to the real
 transaction goes against the respondent." 64. Finally in para 31, it is held by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court that while discerning the true nature of the entire
transaction, the Court is not to merely see the form of the
transaction which is of sale of shares but also the substance
which is the private sale of a mining right avoiding legal bar
against transfer of sale rights. In fact, the learned Court
deals with the issue in para 31 in the following manner: 65. If we consider the transaction in the present case in the
backdrop of the aforesaid principles laid down by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, we have no hesitation in
holding that the purpose for which the doctrine of
lifting of the veil is applied is nothing but a principle
followed to ensure that a corporate character or
personality is not misused as a device to conduct
something which is improper and not permissible in
law, fraudulent in nature and goes against public
interest and is employed to evade obligations imposed
in law. If that is the purpose for which the doctrine of
lifting of the veil is to be employed and if we see the
transaction that has taken place in the present case
with regard to how the transfer of shares between AJL
and Young India took place, we find that within a
period of about three months, that is, between 23rd
November, 2010 to 26th February, 2011, Young India
was constituted. It took over the right to recover a
loan of more than 90 Crores from All India Congress
Committee for a consideration of Rs.50 Lakhs,
thereafter replaced the original shareholders of
Young India by four new entities including Sh. Moti ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 156 Lal Vohra, Chairman of AJL and Young India after
acquiring 99% of shares in AJL, became the main
shareholder with four of its shareholders acquiring
the administrative right to administer property of
more than 400 Crores. Even though Dr. Singhvi had
argued that there is nothing wrong in such a
transaction and it is legally permissible, but if we
take note of the principles and the doctrine for which
the theory of lifting of the corporate veil has received
legal recognition, we have no hesitation in holding
that the entire transaction of transferring the shares
of AJL to Young India was nothing but, as held by the
learned writ Court, a clandestine and surreptitious
transfer of the lucrative interest in the premises to
Young India. In fact, the contention of Dr. Singhvi has
to be rejected and rightly so was rejected by the Single
Judge even though without applying the principle of
lifting of the corporate veil. In case the theory of
lifting of the corporate veil, as discussed hereinabove,
is applied and the transaction viewed by analyzing as
to what was the purpose for such a transaction, the
so called innocent or legal and permissible
transaction as canvassed before us, in our considered
view, is not so simple or straight forward as put
before us, but it only indicates the dishonest and
fraudulent design behind such a transaction as laid
down in various judgments referred to not only in the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 157 case of Gotan Lime Stone Khanij Udyog (P) Ltd. (supra) but
also in the case of Union Territory of Estate Officer, UT,
Chandigarh vs. S.C. Information Technologies , (2016) 12
SCC 582, Skipper Construction (supra), wherein also the
theory has been applied after considering the principle laid
down in Salomon (supra) and in para 28, in the case of
Skipper Construction (supra), the law has been crystallized
in the following manner: 66. Apart from the aforesaid judgments, there are various
 other judgments which have been brought to our notice
 wherein the said theory of lifting of the corporate veil has
 been approved and we have no hesitation in holding that the
 transfer in question, if analyzed in the backdrop of the
 principles as discussed hereinabove, we see no error in the
 findings recorded by the learned writ Court to hold that the
 transfer in question comes within the prohibited category
 under clause XIII (3) of the lease agreement." [Emphasis in bold is ours]

112 The Hon'ble High Court have further held that the breach
 was continuing right from the year 2008 till
 commencement of digital publication on 14.11.2016 and
 went on to hold that the court has no hesitation in holding
 that the breach of there being no publication activity or
 paper publication for a long period stands established. This
 would come within the purview of the breach of terms and
 conditions of the license. Their Lordships have held that
 admittedly printing activities and publication of
 newspapers was not carried out in the premises when the
 inspection took place initially on 26.09.2016 and not even ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 159 when second inspection took place on 09.10.2018.
 Regarding transfer of shares/property from AJL to YI and
 the manner in which entire transaction was done has been
 frowned upon by the Hon'ble Court as a clandestine and
 surreptitious transfer of the lucrative interest in the
 premises to Young India. After applying the principle of
 lifting of the corporate veil, their Lordships have held that
 "the transaction viewed by analyzing as to what was
 the purpose for such a transaction, the so called
 innocent or legal and permissible transaction as
 canvassed before us, in our considered view, is not so
 simple or straight forward as put before us, but it only
 indicates the dishonest and fraudulent design behind
 such a transaction......". 113 The sequitur of the findings and observations of Hon'ble
 High Court in the case of AJL clearly clinches the issue in
 hand wherein the court has taken note of identical facts as
 discussed here in this order and have categorically held
 that; The share holding pattern of both the companies, i.e.,
 AJL & YI and the manner in which the transaction has
 taken place, principle of lifting of corporate veil is
 clearly applicable; Their Lordships have narrated the entire factum of
 advancing of loan of Rs. 90 crores by AICC to AJL and ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 160 the manner in which it has been assigned to YI for a
meager sum of Rs. 50 lakhs, brings the entire
transaction within the ambit of some kind of colourable
device because YI had acquired beneficial interest on
AJL's properties which have been valued for more that
400 crores on a meager payment of Rs. 50 lakhs to
AICC. It has been further observed that modus
operandi is nothing but a device to transfer the
property held on lease from the Government to AJL to
YI, which became almost 100% shareholder of AJL.
Their Lordships have also considered the judgment of
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Bacha F. Guzdar (supra) which has been strongly relied by the assessee
before us and held that though the principle laid down
by the constitutional Bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court
cannot be in dispute and it is an accepted principle of
law, however, in the public interest and for assessing
the actual nature of transaction or modus operandi
employed in carrying out a particular transaction, the
theory of lifting of the corporate veil is permissible and
the court can always apply this doctrine to see as to
what is the actual nature of transaction that has taken
place, its purpose and then determine the question
before it after evaluating the transaction or the modus
operandi employed in the backdrop of public interest or ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 161 interest of revenue to the State. The principle of lifting
 of corporate veil is an exception to the corporate
 personality of a company, but can be resorted to
 unravel tax evasion to public interest, which is of
 paramount interest to prevent a corporate entity in
 attempting to evade legal obligation. If a corporate
 personality is being blatantly used as a cloak for fraud
 or improper conduct or where the protection of public
 interest is undermined and the company has been
 formed to evade imposition of revenue under law, the
 principle of lifting of corporate veil is justified to be
 applied. In para 65 of the judgment, it has been clearly held
 that the transaction which has taken place and the
 manner there has been transfer of shares between the
 AJL and YI between the period of three months starting
 from 23.11.2010 to 26.02.2011 itself shows that the
 entire transaction of transferring the shares to YI was
 nothing but a clandestine and surreptitious transfer of
 lucrative interest to the premise of YI. The Hon. court
 has come down very heavily in stating that the entire
 transaction is not only dishonest, but also fraudulent
 design. 114 The aforesaid observations and findings of the Hon'ble
 jurisdictional High Court clearly have a binding precedence ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 162 because not only it proves that the conduct of the assessee
 company right from the incorporation of YI till the
 application for registration u/s. 12AA before the DIT (E),
 was not to carry out any charitable activity, but to acquire
 huge assets of hundreds crores of Rs for a negligible
 amount. Seeking a status of charitable institution and to
 get registered under welfare legislation like section
 12A/12AA, with such kind of conduct clearly indicates that
 it is a misuse of law and some kind of colourable device.
 This is perpetuated by the fact that all these transactions
 were completely hidden from the Income-tax Department
 and DIT (E) while seeking the registration u/s. 12AA. If all
 these things are put in perspective, then the contention of
 the ld. Special Counsel and ld. CIT (E) is to be believed that
 it is only when the Investigation Wing and Income-tax
 Department started making certain investigation and
 enquiries and also looking to the fact that no genuine
 activity was carried out for the period of five years, the
 assessee may have been prompted to surrender its
 registration u/s. 12AA. 115 There is another angle which ponders us is that, if no
 activities were carried out by YI towards charitable activity
 between the period 2011 to 2016, then why so much of
 clamour that assessee should be recognized as charitable
 institution qua that period only should have the benefit of ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 163 registration u/s. 12AA for this period of five years, i.e.,
 from the assessment year 2011-12 to A.Y. 2016-17 and
 post 21st March 2016, the assessee itself chose to
 surrender its registration and willingly give up its charity
 status under the Income Tax Act . If both YI and AJL are
 non-profitable company, then why such a dispute on
 cancellation from retrospective date. 116 Before us, the ld. counsel had very strongly objected to
 refer and rely upon the judgments of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court as cited (supra) on the ground that, Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in SLP No.7345/2019 had stayed the further
 proceedings pursuant to the High Court order vide order
 dated 05.04.2019. The relevant directions of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court read as under: Not only that, it has been strongly contended that once the
 operation of the order has been stayed then either the said
 judgment should not be taken into cognizance or the
 matter should be adjourned sine dine till the matter stands
 decided by the Hon'ble Apex Court. We are unable to
 accept such a plea raised by the ld. counsel for the
 assessee for the reason that firstly, the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court had stayed further proceedings pursuant to High ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 164 Court's order, which was Eviction of the property situated
at 5A, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg leased to AJL. Thus, in
our opinion, what have been stayed are any further
proceedings pursuant to the order of Hon'ble High Court
and not the entire finding arrived at by the Hon'ble Court. It is a settled principle of law reiterated by Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of Shree Chamundi Mopeds
Ltd. vs. Church of South India Trust Association CSI
Cinod Secretariat, Madras (1992) 3 SCC 1, that
distinction has to be made between quashing of order and
stay of operation of order because quashing of order results
in restoration of position as it stood on the date of passing
of the order whereas the stay of operation only means that
it would not be operative on the date of passing of the stay
order, but it does not mean that the said order has been
wiped out from existence. The relevant observations read
as under: [Emphasis in bold is ours]

117 Thus, it has been clearly held that staying the operation of
 the order of the Court does not mean that the said order
 does not exist in law. Hon'ble Bombay High Court in
 Nilkamal Limited vs. Union Territory of Dadar & Nagar
 Haveli, in criminal writ petition No. 3794 of 2014, after
 referring to various judgments including that of Shree
 Chamundi Mopeds Ltd. (supra) held that even if a decision
 of the High Court is stayed by the Apex Court, the
 subordinate courts are bound by the same unless the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 167 decision is set aside by the Apex Court. Accordingly, the
 High Court directed the Magistrate to follow the judgment
 of High Court unless and until it is set aside by the Hon'ble
 Apex Court. 118 In view of the aforesaid law, the contention raised by the ld. counsel is hereby rejected. Even otherwise, also here it is
 not the case that the order of the Hon'ble High Court has
 become non-operative, albeit the consequences of eviction
 pursuant to the directions of Hon'ble High Court, has been
 stayed and not the order. The ld. counsel has also relied
 upon the judgment of Delhi High Court in the case of Bhushan Steel (supra) and of Calcutta High Court in the
 case Exide Industries Ltd. (supra) where the order has been
 stayed by Hon'ble Supreme Court, and in Subsequent
 judgment, Hon'ble Delhi High Court has not followed the
 said order. Such a plea and reference does not come to aid
 for the reason that in the judgment of Delhi High Court
 (Bhushan Steel) it has been held that the Sales Tax
 Subsidy is the Revenue receipt and the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court had admitted the SLP and the entire order was
 stayed. Here situation and direction are not similar. Further the judgment of Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in Exide Industries Ltd. (supra), wherein the provisions of
 section 43B(f) was declared unconstitutional where also
 SLP was filed before the Hon'ble Supreme Court the entire ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 168 operation of the order was stayed. In any case, once the
 jurisdictional High Court has passed the judgment which
 has not been set aside or reversed by Hon'ble Supreme
 Court, then for lower courts within its jurisdiction
 constitutes a binding precedence specifically when the
 judgment has been rendered on similar facts and
 transaction as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
 case of Shree Chamundi Mopeds Ltd. (supra), wherein
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has clearly held that the order of
 the Appellate Authority where the operation has been
 stayed continue to exist in law. We are clearly bound by the
 observations and findings of the Hon'ble jurisdictional High
 court. 119 Lastly, in so far as filing of second set of additional
 evidences at the time of rejoinder made by the ld. counsel
 for the assessee, the assessee has filed various documents
 which are listed hereunder: Unit 4(3), New Delhi complaining about 576
 leakage of the information to media and
 carrying a witch hunt 32. Letter dated 05.08.2014 written to DDIT, 577-
 Unit 4(3), New Delhi stating that all the 579
 documents sought are already available
 in the public domain 33. Letters written to Chairman, CBDT in 580- December 2017, January 2018 and July 592 2018 pointing out various violations u/s.
 138 of the Act in the Appellant's case and
 requesting to take necessary actions ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 171 34. Classification of AJL as a Newspaper 593- 120 Most of these documents, though submitted at the
 rejoinder stage, are in nature of clarifications to the
 submissions made by the ld. DR and the letters written to
 DDIT in 2014 and certain notices issued by LDO, but none
 of the documents filed impinge upon our finding in any
 manner as given above, because none of these documents
 prove that acquisition of AJL by the assessee company was
 for carrying out any charitable activities in pursuance of its
 objects nor any such activity was carried during the
 relevant period. Accordingly, these additional evidences, as
 filed by the assessee, though are taken on record, but we
 do not deem fit to adjudicate on each and every document
 for the reasons given in the foregoing paragraphs.
121 One of the key contentions raised by the ld. counsel before
 us is that the ld. CIT(E) does not have the power to cancel
 the registration from retrospective date and any such
 cancellation can only be prospective, i.e., from the date of
 passing of the order and in support of which certain
 decisions have also been relied upon. From a bare reading
 of Section 12AA (3) it is seen that, section provides that
 where a trust or an institution has been granted
 registration and if subsequently, Pr. CIT or CIT is satisfied
 that the activities of the trust are not genuine or are not ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 172 carried out in accordance with the objects of the trust, he
may cancel the registration by way of an order in writing.
Consequently, if there is violation of any such conditions,
then the registration so granted can be cancelled by the
CIT. Nowhere, the Statute envisages that the cancellation
cannot be retrospective or it has to be necessarily
prospective. What it provides that the Commissioner has
statutory powers to cancel the registration u/s. 12A/12AA
if he finds reason to believe that the activities of the
assessee are not in line with its objects or the activities
carried out by the assessee are not genuine in nature. If
from the date when registration has been granted, the
assessee has not carried out any activity in line with its
objects or the activities carried out are not genuine, then
from that date itself, the registration can be cancelled
because it is only when the knowledge of such breach come
to the notice of the Commissioner, then he has the power
to cancel the registration from the date he notices the
infringement. The cancellation of registration, whether with
retrospective effect or prospective, depends upon the facts
and circumstances of the case and the Commissioner has
power to cancel the registration from the time when such
breach has occurred. Suppose, if the assessee after grant of
registration carries out its activities in accordance with its
objects and the activities are also genuine then the ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 173 assessee is entitled for benefits of section 12AA; and if from
 a particular period or year, the activities are found to be
 either non-genuine or not carried out in accordance with
 its stated objects, then the Commissioner can cancel the
 registration from the date or period when such non
 genuineness is found. Hon'ble Madras High Court in the
 case of Prathyusha Educational Trust (supra) have clearly
 reiterated this proposition, relevant text of which has been
 already incorporated above, wherein their Lordships have
 held that it a misnomer to sate that the order is
 retrospective or retroactive and the order of the
 cancellation of registration even passed on subsequent date
 would take effect from the year when cause of action arose.
122 Here, in this case, as we have gathered from the material
 facts on record and discussed in detail, the assessee at the
 time of seeking registration itself has concealed the
 material facts and not disclosed the entire events of
 transactions which had undergone from the date of
 inception of assessee company till the grant of registration
 and one of the conditions on which the registration has
 been granted stood violated from the day one and therefore,
 under these circumstances, the ld. CIT(E) was fully
 justified in law and on facts in cancelling the registration
 from the date of granting of registration itself, i.e., from the
 assessment year 2011-12. Secondly, here in this case it ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 174 has been found that even after grant of registration u/s.
 12AA, no genuine activities have been carried out by the
 assessee either in furtherance of its objects or otherwise,
 which can be held to be for charitable purpose because one
 of the so called purpose of acquiring AJL was not carried
 out at all. Otherwise, also, we have already discussed and
 given our categorical findings that till the grant of
 registration and surrender made by the assessee, no
 worthwhile activities were carried out by AJL. In fact, what
 it turns out to be is that, the assessee has acquired AJL, a
 company that owns property worth hundreds of crores
 from which the AJL had been enjoying only rental income.
 Clearly, AJL, which had been earning rental income,
 cannot be held that its activities were aligned with the
 objects of the assessee company or through AJL; it was
 carrying out activities in pursuance of its objects qua that
 period. Hence, in that sense, the assessee's activities
 cannot be held to be genuine. Thus, the cancellation of
 registration u/s 12AA by the Ld. CIT (E) from A.Y. 2011-12
 is upheld. 123 Though we have tried to note down various arguments
 placed by the parties and the judgments relied upon and
 have also dealt with all the core arguments, but some of
 the contentions and submissions made are not being dealt
 with, as we do not find them to be relevant on the facts and ITA No. 7751/Del/2017 175 circumstances and also in view of our detail discussion and
 findings given above. 124 Accordingly, in view of our findings given above, we hold
 that the ld. CIT (E) was justified in cancelling the
 registration from the assessment year 2011-12, because
 none of the activities of the assessee was carried out in
 accordance with its objects nor its activities can be held to
 be genuine. Consequently, the appeal of the assessee is
 dismissed. 125 In the result, the appeal is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 15th November 2019.