BEFORE
 HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE MALASRI NANDI

 JUDGEMENT AND ORDER
Date : 31-08-2023

 Heard Mr. D. Chakrabarty, learned counsel for the petitioner. Also
 Page No.# 2/13

heard Mr. B. Gogoi, learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the
State/respondent No.1 and Mr. A. Goenka, learned counsel for the
respondent No. 2. 2. The petitioner has preferred the application under Section 482 Cr.P.C., praying for quashment of the FIR dated 27.04.2020 registered
vide Margherita P.S. Case No. 0112/2020 (corresponding to G.R. Case
No. 289/2020) under Section 406 / 419 / 420 / 34 IPC r/w Section 66 C and 66 D of Information and Technology Act, 2000 (herein after
referred as I.T. Act ). 3. The petitioner is the JSVM Plywood Industries Ltd. (JSVM)
incorporated in the year 1975 and was previously known as Arunachal
Saw & Veneer Mills Ltd. The respondent No. 2 herein is the Resolution
Professional appointed by the National Company Law Tribunal(NCLT),
Guwahati Bench vide order dated 26.08.2019 under the provision of
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code(IBC), 2016 for carrying out Corporate
Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) against National Plywood
Industries Ltd.(NPIL) against whom proceeding under the insolvency
and bankruptcy code was drawn up before the NCLT, Guwahati Bench. 4. On 27.04.2020, the respondent No. 2 lodged an FIR before the
Officer-in-Charge Margherita Police Station with regard to a net
banking transaction dated 18.04.2020 for an amount of Rs.32.50 lakhs
transferred to the bank account of the petitioner being No.
149905001306 maintained with ICICI Bank Ltd., Chandrasekarpur
Branch, Bhubaneswar from the bank account No. 12850500155 of
NPIL maintained with ICICI bank ltd., Strand Road Branch, Kolkata. Page No.# 3/13

The contention raised by the respondent No. 2 in the impugned FIR
was that money was transferred to the petitioner through net banking
transaction without any authorization. Since the respondent No. 2 had
taken control of all the bank accounts of the NPIL after initiation of
CIRP and the controlling powers including authority to put signatures
were suspended in respect of the earlier board members and that the
company is still under CIRP. The respondent No. 2 contended that he
had received string of emails on 18.07.2019 intimating transfer of
funds from NPIL to the petitioner company for a total amount of
Rs.32,50,000/-. The respondent No. 2 further contended that on
request being made to the concerned bank maintaining the account of
NPIL to enquire into the matter, the bank confirmed about the
transaction vide email to respondent No. 2 and provided therewith, a
report of the transactions which was said to have been made by way
of Corporate Internet Banking (CIB) facility. 5. The respondent No. 2 further added that the Bank maintaining
the account of NPIL has ensured to recoup the money from all such
accounts to which, the said sum of money was transferred. In the said
FIR, the respondent No. 2 also alleged about another unauthorized
transaction through net banking to some other bank account in the
name of one M/s Plywood and Hardware which is not the matter of
concern of the petitioner. The respondent No. 2 contended that one
Mr. Piyush Periwal, who is the CMD of the suspended Board of NPIL
has attempted to make unauthorized operations with malafide
intention of duping the company by transferring major chunk of
substantial funds to his own associate company. Page No.# 4/13 6. In view of such alleged illegal transactions, the respondent No . 2
requested the police to seriously investigate the matter and take all
necessary legal actions on the perpetrator for the alleged fraud of such
high magnitude. Request was also made by respondent No. 2
to investigate over the lapses on the part of the ICICI Bank to let
the transaction without the knowledge of respondent No. 2. 7. Pursuant to the FIR lodged by respondent No. 2, a case was
registered vide Margherita P.S. Case No. 0112/2020 under Section 406 / 419 / 420 / 34 of IPC read with section 66 C and 66D of I.T.
Act. 8. It is submitted by the learned counsel for the petitioner that the
FIR lodged by the respondent No. 2 is not maintainable against the
petitioner company or any of its directors. In the FIR, there is no direct
allegation against either the petitioner or any of its directors. The
allegation of unauthorized net banking transaction is upon one Mr.
Piyush Periwal, the earlier CMD of the suspended board of NPIL. It has
been alleged that Mr. Periwal has transferred the amount to the bank
account of the petitioner company with the malafide intention of
duping NPIL. 9. It is further submitted that the respondent No. 2 earlier filed an
application before the NCLT, Guwahati Bench regarding the said
transaction but in the said application, the petitioner company was not
impleaded as party. Since the issue was brought to the notice of the
NCLT, Guwahati, the respondent No. 2 had no authority to declare the
said transaction as an unauthorized and fraudulent one until there was
 Page No.# 5/13

an adjudication over the same by the appropriate forum. 10. It is further submitted that the impugned FIR has been lodged
by the respondent No. 2 with malafide intention as an outburst to the
complaint lodged against him before IBBI under Section 217 of IBC by
the petitioner for professional misconduct as a resolution professional
of NPIL. 11. Learned counsel for the petitioner also submitted that there is no
ingredient of the offence of criminal breach of trust such as
entrustment of property, dishonest misappropriation of the same,
disposal of the said property in violation of any direction of law, thus
causing other person to suffer which attracted the provision under Section 406 / 420 IPC. 12. It is also pointed out that with regard to Section 419 IPC dealing
with punishment for cheating by personation, the same is also not
attracted in respect of the petitioner in as much as the allegation of
unauthorized net banking transaction is upon the earlier CMD of the
suspended board of NPIL i.e. Mr. Piyush Periwal. The petitioner is only
the transferee of the said amount which was due to the petitioner. 13. So far as Section 66 C and 66 D of I.T. Act are concerned, the
learned counsel for the petitioner argued that those provisions are also
not applicable to the petitioner as the contents of the FIR, the
allegation to that is directed against the transferor of the amount, i.e.,
the earlier CMD of the suspended Board of NPIL, not against the
petitioner. Under the aforesaid facts and circumstances, it is prayed
 Page No.# 6/13

that this Court would be justified in invoking its power under Section
482 Cr.P.C. to quash the F.I.R. lodged against the Petitioner. 14. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent No. 2
submitted an affidavit-in-opposition by stating that the stressed assets
stabilization fund had filed an application for initiation of CIRP under
Section 7 of the IBC against NPIL, the Corporate Debtor (CD), the
same was admitted by the NCLT, Guwahati Bench and the respondent
No. 2 was appointed as the resolution professional of the CD. Under
Section 25(2)(a) of IBC, it is the duty of the resolution professional to
take control and custody of overall assets of the CD. 15. It is also the submission of the learned counsel for the
respondent No. 2 that on 18.04.2020, a member of the suspended
board Mr. Piyush Periwal transferred a total sum of Rs.32.50 lakh to
the petitioner by way of four transactions. The same was done by the
CD without authorization. Knowing about the fact, the respondent No.
2 immediately took action by filing e-complaint alleging cyber-crime
and secondly by filing an FIR dated 27.04.2020 as aforesaid, as the
petitioner is the related party to the CD. 16. The learned counsel for the respondent No. 2 also submitted
that filing of the petition by the petitioner under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is
an attempt to stop criminal law in motion since the investigation is still
underway and the charge-sheet is yet to be filed. The learned counsel
for the respondent No. 2 also relied upon some case laws i.e. Kurukshetra University vs. State of Haryana , reported in 1977 vol. 4
SCC 451 and State of Haryana vs. Bhim Sain, JT 2000(10) SC 308. The
 Page No.# 7/13

learned counsel for the respondent No. 2 also pointed out the case law
of State of Haryana vs. Bhajan Lal, AIR 1992 SC 604, wherein the
Hon'ble Apex Court laid down the principles to all the High Courts' to
follow when it comes to its inherent power of quashing an FIR under
Section 482 Cr.P.C. 17. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the
State/respondent No. 1 also submitted in the similar tune with that of
learned counsel for the respondent No. 2 that there is a prima facie
case against the petitioner under Section 406 / 419 / 420 / 34 IPC r/w Section 66 C and 66 D of I.T. Act. The FIR cannot be quashed by this
Court without taking into consideration the charge-sheet and the
evidence collected by the police during the investigation which is
underway and yet to be completed. The learned Additional Public
Prosecutor and the learned counsel for the respondent No. 2 prayed
for dismissal of the petition. 18. I have considered the submissions made by the learned counsel
for the parties. 19. The power of the High Court under Section 482 of the Code to
quash a criminal proceeding has been considered by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in several decisions starting from R.P. Kapur v. State
of Punjab reported in 1960 AIR 860. In the case of R.P.
Kapur (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court laid down three categories
of cases where inherent power can be exercised to quash proceedings. Subsequently, the Supreme Court reiterated its view in State of
Haryana v. Bhajan Lal (supra) and laid down the law more clearly
 Page No.# 8/13

and in that decision seven illustrative categories were indicated by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court where the High Court can exercise its power
under Section 482 of the Code to quash a proceeding. It was also
made clear in the said decision that these seven illustrations are not
exhaustive and the High Court can exercise such power in appropriate
cases, if there are materials to exercise such power. Subsequently, in
many other decisions the same view was reiterated by the Supreme
Court namely, State of Bihar v. P.P. Sharma , reported in 1992 SCC
(Cri) 192; Rupan Deal Bajaj v. Kanwar Pal Singh Gill , reported
in 1995 SCC (Cri) 1059; Rashmi Kumar v. Mahesh Kumar
Bhada , reported in 1997 SCC (Cri) 415; Rajesh Bajaj v.
State(N.C.T. Of Delhi ), reported in 1999 SCC(Cri) 401; State of
Karnataka v. M. Devendrappa , reported in 2002 SCC(Cri)
539; M. Narayandas v. State of Karnataka , reported in 2003
Supp(3)SCR 973; State of A.P. v. Golconda Linga
Swami , reported in 2004 SCC(Cri) 1805 and also several other
decisions including State of M.P. v. Awadh Kishore Gupta (supra). 20. In the aforesaid decisions, the principle of law was clearly laid
down by the Supreme Court that the High Court while exercising its
power under Section 482 of the Code must be very careful and should
see that exercise of this power is based on sound principles. It was laid down by the Supreme Court that while exercising powers under
this section, the Court does not function as a Court of Appeal or
Revision. Inherent jurisdiction under the section though wide has to be
exercised very sparingly, carefully and with caution and only when
such exercise is justified by the tests specifically laid down in the
 Page No.# 9/13

section itself. While exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of the
Code, the High Court would not ordinarily embark upon an enquiry
whether the evidence in question is reliable or not or whether on a
reasonable appreciation of it accusation would not be sustained. The
inherent power should not be exercised to stifle a legitimate
prosecution. The High Court being the highest Court of a State should
normally refrain from giving a prima facie decision in a case where the
entire facts are incomplete and hazy, more so, when the evidence has
not been collected and produced before the Court and the issues
involved, whether factual or legal, are of magnitude and cannot be
seen in their true perspective without sufficient material. 21. Keeping in mind the above stated principles of law, a close
scrutiny of the FIR which has been annexed with the petition makes it
clear that the allegations made in the FIR without adding anything to it
or subtracting anything from it and, if they are taken at their face
value and accepted in their entirety, prima facie makes out elements of
cognizable offence against the accused petitioner. The allegations in
the FIR and other materials makes out a cognizable offence justifying
investigation by police. The allegations in the FIR do constitute
cognizable offence. The allegations made in the FIR cannot be
regarded as absurd and inherently improbable. At this stage, I do not
find any express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of the
Code or Act concerned to the institution and continuance of the
proceeding. The FIR at this stage does not reveal that the criminal
proceeding is manifestly attended with malafides or the proceeding is
maliciously instituted with ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on
 Page No.# 10/13

the accused/petitioner with a view to spite him due to private and
personal grudge. 22. According to the learned counsel for the petitioner, the matter in
question relates to the monetary transaction and the case is pending
before the NCLT, Guwahati Bench which is of civil nature as such, the
present criminal proceeding which amounts to abuse of the process of
the court, therefore, the present FIR lodged against the petitioner is
liable to be quashed. 23. The settled principle of law is that the pendency of the civil
proceeding cannot be a ground to quash the criminal proceeding and
there are several decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court on this point
namely, M. Krishnan v. Vijay Singh and Anr . ( supra), Kamaladevi Agarwal v. State of West Bengal and Ors . ( supra), Maratt Rubber Ltd. v. J.K.
Marattukalam ( supra), Medchl Chemicals & Pharma Pvt. Ltd. v.
Biological E. Ltd. and Ors. ( supra) and Vitoori Pradeep Kumar
v. Kaisula Dharmaiah reported in 2004 SCC (Cri) 440. 24. In the aforesaid decisions, the Hon'ble Supreme Court clearly
laid down the law that, pendency of civil proceeding in any Court
cannot be a bar to initiate criminal proceeding. Where factual
foundation for the offence have been laid down in the complaint or
FIR, the High Court should not hasten to quash criminal proceedings
merely on the premises that one or two ingredients have not been
stated with the details or that the facts narrated reveal the existence
of commercial or money transaction between the parties. In Maratt
 Page No.# 11/13 Rubber Ltd. v. J.K. Marattukalam reported in (2000) vol.9 SCC
547, it was held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that-- 25. In Kamaladevi Agarwal v. State of West Bengal and Ors. reported in (2002) 1 SCC 555, it was held by the Supreme Court
that the quashing of criminal proceeding at initial stage merely on the
ground that the very foundation of the criminal case, namely, forgery
of document is under scrutiny by Supreme Court in a civil proceeding
instituted by same person i.e. the complainant in the criminal case is
not proper. The Supreme Court observed that pendency of civil action
in different Court even though higher in status and authority cannot be
made basis for quashing of the proceeding. Almost similar view was
reiterated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Medchl Chemicals &
Pharma Pvt. Ltd. v. Biological E. Ltd. and Ors. ( supra) and Vitoori
Pradeep Kumar v. Kaisula Dharmaiah (supra). 26. In M.L. Bhatt v. M.K. Pandita and Ors. reported in JT
2002(3) SC 89, it was held by the Supreme Court that when the
 Page No.# 12/13

matter is under investigation, quashing of FIR by the High Court
considering materials including statements under Section 161 of the
Code is bad. It was held by the Supreme Court that during the
pendency of investigation in a case in which there is prayer for
quashing of FIR, the High Court would be entitled to only examine the
allegations made in the FIR and would not be entitled to appreciate by
way of shifting the materials collected in course of investigation
including the statement recorded under Section 161 of the Code. 27. It is well-settled that power under Section 482 of the Code to
quash FIR or investigation should be exercised very sparingly and that
too in the rarest of rare cases and at the initial stage of investigation
where the FIR discloses cognizable offence, the Court cannot inquire
about the reliability or genuineness or otherwise of the allegations
made in the FIR. At this stage, the High Court cannot assess evidence
like a Trial Court or Appellate Court and cannot make any enquiry
relating to reliability or evidence and sustainability of accusation. 28. In the case in hand, it appears that both the parties have
submitted sufficient documents to deal with the matter which are
pending before the NCLT, Guwahati Bench and some other documents
regarding transfer of money by the earlier CMD Mr. Piyush Periwal to
the account of the present petitioner but the documents have not yet
been tested or verified by the investigating officer and unless those
are tested or verified and admitted by the parties in court at the time
of trial, it cannot be said that the documents are admitted. After
perusing the allegations in the FIR and the documents filed by the
 Page No.# 13/13

 parties showing the appointment of Resolution Professional by the
 NCLT, Guwahati Bench, it makes out a case that in the present matter
 investigation by police is necessary to reveal the truth. 29. In the present case, the FIR discloses cognizable case and the
 investigation is at the very threshold. At this stage, the FIR cannot be
 quashed and the investigation cannot be thwarted or stalled at the
 initial stage. Considering the allegations made in FIR and other
 materials available in the record, this Court is of the opinion that this is
 not a fit case where this Court should exercise its inherent power
 under Section 482 Cr.P.C. to quash the FIR and to stop the
 investigation. The investigation, if any, would be for the ends of justice
 and would reveal the truth. At this stage, this Court cannot look into all
 the papers and documents annexed with the case record as those
 were neither verified nor tested. Let the investigation be proceeded
 with and the investigating officer after completing investigation submit
 report in accordance with law. 30. With the above observations, the criminal petition stands
 dismissed and disposed of accordingly. 31. Interim order, if there be any, stands vacated. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant