Mr. Asit De

 For Respondent No.54 & 55: Mr. R.S. Mantha

 For Respondent No.56: Mr. Dilip Kundu, Mr. Chanchal Kr. Dutta

 For Respondent No.57: Mr. D. Basak, Mr. D.N. Mishra, Mr. A. Roy,
 Mr. R.K. Rai
 For Respondent No.1: Mr. Alok Banerjee, Mrs. Anupa Banerjee

 For Respondent No.22-25
 & 27-44: Mr. Durbadal Sen
Heard On: 21.02.08, 10.03.08, 19.03.08, 25.03.08, 31.03.08
Date : 31.08.2009

INDIRA BANERJEE, J.: This appeal is against an order dated 16th July, 2002 of

the learned Single Judge, refusing the prayer of the plaintiff-appellant for interim

orders that would, in effect restrain the defendant Nos.53 to 57 from proceeding

with their applications under Section 19 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks
 and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 and further dismissing the suit being Suit

No.445 of 1998 filed by the plaintiff-appellant as against the said defendants. The plaintiff-appellant filed the said suit being Suit No.445 of 1998

impleading 57 defendants of whom defendant Nos.1 to 44 were constituents of

the plaintiff-appellant, defendant Nos.45 to 52 were employees of the plaintiff-

appellant and defendant Nos.53 to 57 were banks who had negotiated letters of

credit issued by the plaintiff-appellant. In the suit it was alleged that the defendant Nos.1 to 44, hereinafter

referred to as the Madhumita group, in collusion with the defendant Nos.45 to

52, being the employees of the plaintiff-appellant, fraudulently caused letters of

credit in question, which were negotiated by the defendant banks, to be issued

through the Baghbazar Branch of the plaintiff-appellant. According to the plaintiff-appellant, there were no letters of credit at all as

there was no genuine transaction for which any letter of credit could have been

issued and the persons who had signed the letters of credit on behalf of the

plaintiff-appellant were not authorized under the Official Gazette published

under Regulation 76(1) of the SBI Regulations, 1955. According to the plaintiff-appellant, the SBI Regulations are a public

document and as such known to everyone including the defendant Nos.53 to 57.
 It is further contended that the purported letters of credit were not in standard

form and the defendant Nos.53 to 57 were negligent and reckless in negotiating

the same. The letters of credit were, according to the plaintiff-appellant, in

contravention of the Uniform Customs and Practice of Documentary Credit

(UCPDC). In the suit, the plaintiff-appellant has claimed the following reliefs: An interlocutory application being G.A. No.4160 of 1998 was moved in the

said suit inter alia praying for the following reliefs: Initially an order of injunction was passed in the said interlocutory

application, restraining the defendant Nos.53 to 57 from proceeding with their

applications under Section 19 of the Recovery of Debts due to Banks and

Financial Institutions Act, 1993, hereinafter referred to as the Debts Recovery

Act. On appeal, the order of injunction was vacated, whereupon the plaintiff-

appellant filed a Special Leave Petition in the Supreme Court. The Supreme

Court by its order dated 12th July, 1999 directed the High Court to decide the

application on merits. Mr. Hirak Mitter appearing on behalf of the plaintiff-appellant submitted

that by use of the phrase merit, the Supreme Court could only have meant that

the High Court was to decide whether the stay of the proceedings before the Debt

Recovery Tribunal should continue. This was evident from the fact that the

Supreme Court itself granted a stay of the proceedings before the Debt Recovery

Tribunal. Mr. Mitter referred to the Dictionary of English Law by Jowitt (Vol.2) where

the meaning of the expression merit is "shorn of technicalities". The illustration
 given is "A person is said to have a good cause of action or defence on the merits

when his claim or defence is based on the real matters in question and not on

any technical ground". Mr. Mitter next referred to Black's law Dictionary (5th Edn.), according to

which, "the word merit as a legal term is to be regarded as referring to the strict

legal rights of the parties." The meaning ascribed to the expression merit in

Mitra's Legal and Commercial Dictionary (5th Edn.) is "the real matter in question

as opposed to technicalities. It is a matter of substance as distinguished from a

matter of form." Mr. Mitter submitted that even though the Supreme Court had, by its order

dated 12th July, 1999 directed the High Court to decide the application on merits,

the learned Single Judge had not decided the application on merits, but rejected

the same on the ground of want of jurisdiction. Mr. Mitter argued that the learned Single Judge cursorily discussed the

questions of merit and did not give any judgment on the various points made by

Counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiff-appellant. In particular, the learned

Single Judge did not decide the question of involvement of fraud between the

defendants, the question of recklessness and negligence in negotiating the letters

of credit and the effect of lack of authority to sign a letter of credit. Mr. Mitter submitted that the learned Single Judge committed an error in

holding that the suit could not have been entertained in this Court, in so far as

the defendant Nos.53 to 57 are concerned since the Debt Recovery Tribunal alone

was competent to entertain and decide the questions involved. The suit against

them has wrongly been dismissed. Mr. Mitter further submitted that the conclusion of the learned Single

Judge that the suit of the plaintiff-appellant could have been filed in the Debt

Recovery Tribunal was patently wrong because recovery of damages for money

wrongfully collected or cancellation of the purported letters of credit or injunction

restraining enforcement thereof could not be considered to be recovery of debt

within the meaning of Section 2 (g) of the Debt Recovery Act. Mr. Mitter argued that the cause of action of the plaintiff-appellant in the

suit was based on acts of conspiracy and fraud between three sets of defendants

including employees of the plaintiff-appellant, who were necessary parties. There

could be no question of initiating proceedings against employees of the bank in

the Debt Recovery Tribunal. Mr. Mitter submitted that the plaintiff-appellant had in its written

statement before the Debt Recovery Tribunal taken the point of collusion,

conspiracy and fraud, which could not obviously be decided in the absence of the

defendant Nos.1 to 44 and defendant Nos.45 to 52. According to Mr. Mitter, the learned Single Judge erred in law in not

continuing the interim order of stay of proceedings initiated by the defendant

banks against the plaintiff-appellant for recovery of their dues in connection with

the letters of credit negotiated through the defendant banks. Mr. Mitter submitted that the learned Single Judge had misapplied the law

relating to orders of injunction and in particular confused the principles for grant

of an interim order of injunction under the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 with grant

of a final order of injunction under the Specific Relief Act, 1963 . Mr. Mitter submitted that while the Civil Procedure Code was applicable for

interim relief which was in aid of final relief, the Specific Relief Act provided for

final relief. In this context Mr. Mitter referred to Sections 37 and 38 of the

Specific Relief Act. Mr. Mitter submitted that the learned Judge erred in dismissing the suit of

the plaintiff-appellant against the defendant Nos.53 to 57. Mr. Mitter referred to

the judgment of the Supreme Court in Indian Bank vs. ABS Marine Products Ltd. reported in 2006 (5) SCC 72 affirming a Division Bench judgment of this Court

that held that a civil suit for damages against a bank was separate from and

independent of recovery proceedings initiated by that bank in the Debt Recovery

Tribunal. Mr. Mitter submitted that prayers (ee), (ff) and (gg) of the suit are for

declaration that the letters of credit in question are void, a direction that the

same be delivered up, cancelled and for perpetual injunction restraining the

defendant banks from enforcing the impugned letters of credit. These were,

according to Mr. Mitter, reliefs under Section 36 of the Specific Relief Act. The

plaint, according to Mr. Mitter, contained the requisite averments. Mr. Mitter submitted that there might have been some prayers claiming

money decrees. However, there were other prayers including prayers for a

declaration that the letters of credit in question were void, liable to be delivered

up and cancelled and for perpetual injunction restraining the defendant banks

from giving effect and/or further effect to the letters of credit in question or from

claiming money thereunder. These reliefs could not have been granted by the

Debt Recovery Tribunal. Mr. Mitter submitted that the Debt Recovery Tribunal had no power to

decide a declaratory suit. In the suit the plaintiff-appellant has sought reliefs

other than monetary reliefs. Mr. Mitter argued that in view of the definition of

debt in Section 2(g) of the Debt Recovery Act, a debt had to arise out of business

activity undertaken by the plaintiff-appellant. The claim of the plaintiff-appellant

for compensation is not 'debt'. Moreover, the plaintiff-appellant could not have

initiated proceedings against its employee in the Debt Recovery Tribunal. Mr. Mitter submitted that the scope of the word 'debt' need not be decided

by this Court at this stage. Mr. Mitter, however, emphatically argued that the

Debt Recovery Tribunal was not competent to grant all the reliefs claimed in this

suit. Mr. Mitter submitted that even if the present suit were to be treated as a

counter-claim, the same could not conveniently be heard since the Debt Recovery

Tribunal was not competent to grant the reliefs claimed in the suit. Moreover, in

any case, even under the amended Section 19 , the entertaining of a counter-

claim was discretionary. Mr. Mitter cited the judgment of the Supreme Court in Cotton Corporation

of India Ltd. vs. United Industrial Bank Ltd. & Ors. reported in AIR 1983 SC

1272 in support of his submission that the Court had inherent powers to restrain

a party from proceeding with any litigation in any Court. The aforesaid judgment of the Supreme Court, with respect, does not lend

support to the proposition that the Court has inherent power to restrain a party

from proceeding with any litigation in any Court. On the other hand, the Supreme Court has, in the aforesaid case held that

the Court cannot grant an order of injunction restraining a person from initiating
 proceedings in a Court of superior or coordinate jurisdiction in view of the bar of Section 41 (b) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. The Court cannot in exercise of its

inherent jurisdiction to grant interim relief, nullify the said section. Mr. Mitter placed reliance on the following observation of the Supreme

Court: The aforesaid observation of the Supreme Court is obiter. In any case,

even for grant of stay of proceedings the Court would necessarily have to arrive at

the finding that the proceedings would be frivolous, in abuse of process and a

device to pressurize a party to submit to an unjust and dishonest claim. Having regard to the pleadings and materials on record, it is impossible to

hold, even prima facie, that the proceedings initiated by the defendant banks for

recovery of the amounts expended by them to honour Letters of Credit issued by

the plaintiff-appellant could be frivolous or harassive or in abuse of process or a

device to pressurize the plaintiff-appellant to submit to an unjust or dishonest

claim. Mr. Mitter also cited Manohar Lal Chopra vs. Rai Bahadur Rao Raja Seth

Hiralal reported in AIR 1962 SC 527 where the Supreme Court held as follows: Mr. Gautam Chakraborty appearing on behalf of the defendant No.53, UTI

Bank Ltd., now known as Axis Bank Ltd., submitted that the allegations of fraud,

collusion and conspiracy were totally vague and devoid of any material

particulars whatsoever. Mr. Chakraborty submitted that it was the practice of UTI Bank Ltd. to

forward all letters of credit along with corresponding documents to the opening

bank for approval, and on each occasion, approval was given by a senior officer of

the State Bank of India. Mr. Chakrabory referred to Federal Bank Ltd. Vs. V.M. Jog Engineering

Ltd. reported in AIR 2000 SC 3167 and submitted that in similar circumstances,

the contention of fraud and/or collusion was not accepted by the Supreme Court. Mr. Chakraborty pointed out that after the judgment of 16th July, 2002,

the appellant moved the Appeal Court on 9th October, 2002 for stay, but no stay

was granted. The Supreme Court by its order dated 9th October, 2002 granted

leave to the plaintiff-appellant to file its written statement before the Debt

Recovery Tribunal without prejudice to its rights and contentions. The plaintiff-appellant filed its written statement in the Debt Recovery

Tribunal on 26th February, 2003. Thereafter the defendant No.3 filed its evidence

by way of affidavit. Mr. Chakraborty submitted that the plaintiff-appellant has, in its written

statement made a counter-claim under Section 19(8) and 19(9) of the Debt

Recovery Act. The counter-claim is to have the same effect as a cross-suit. The

Tribunal has jurisdiction to pass orders on the original claim and the counter-

claim. Mr. Chakraborty submitted that in the counter-claim, the plaintiff-

appellant had alleged that the letters of credit, on the basis of which Defendant

No.53 had claims against the plaintiff-appellant, were null and void and were of

no effect and had sought permanent injunction restraining the defendant No.53

from claiming money or acting upon the letters of credit apart from enquiry into

the alleged loss and damage suffered by the plaintiff-appellant. Mr. Chakraborty argued that the Debt Recovery Tribunal had power and

jurisdiction to determine the issues raised in the counter-claim. Mr.

Chakraborty submitted that the only question for determination of this Court

was, whether the learned Single Judge fell into error in holding that this Court

had no jurisdiction to entertain the suit against the defendant No.53 and other

banks in view of Section 2(g), 17, 18 and 34 of the Debt Recovery Act. Mr. Chakraborty submitted that the interlocutory Court could not restrain

the proceedings in the Debt Recovery Tribunal in view of the bar of Section 18 of

the Debt Recovery Act. Supervisory control could not be exercised except under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India. Mr. Chakraborty further submitted that the contention of the plaintiff-

appellant that questions of fraud or collusion could not be decided by the

Tribunal was not correct. In support of his submission, Mr. Chakrabroty cited the following

judgments: reported in AIR 1983 SC 1272 and 6. United Bank of India vs. Abhijit Tea Co. Pvt. Ltd. reported in AIR 2000
 SC 2957. Mr. Chakraborty concluded that the learned Single Judge had rightly held

that this Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the civil suit against the

defendant banks. The suit against the defendant Nos.1 to 52 is pending and the

same may be proceeded with. There could also be no question of stay of

proceedings in the Debt Recovery Tribunal by this Court in exercise of its

inherent powers. In United Bank of India vs. Debt Recovery Tribunal (supra) the Supreme

Court held that the expression debt has to be given the widest amplitude to mean

any liability which is alleged as due from any person to a bank. In State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur vs. M/s. Ballabh Das & Co. (supra)

the Supreme Court held as follows: In Hira Lall and Sons vs. Lakshmi Commercial Bank (supra) the Supreme

Court upheld transfer to the Debt Recovery Tribunal of a suit based on a letter of

credit filed by the concerned Bank. In J.U. Mansukhani vs. Presiding Officer & Ors. (supra) the High Court was

of the view that application of Bank in the Debt Recovery Tribunal to enforce the

claim of the bank in connection with drafts alleged to have been fraudulently

obtained in collusion with bank officials, was maintainable. In Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. (supra) the Supreme Court held that

the Court cannot grant an injunction restraining the person from initiating

proceedings in a Court of coordinate or superior jurisdiction in view of the bar of Section 41(b) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 and that the inherent power of Court

to grant interim injunction could not be invoked to nullify the said provision. In United Bank of India vs. Abhijit Tea Co. Pvt. Ltd. (supra) the Supreme

Court held that the prior suit of a constituent in the Civil Court seeking specific

performance of an agreement not to charge interest could be transferred to the

Debt Recovery Tribunal, treating the same as counter-claim in the subsequent

suit instituted by the bank for recovery of its dues. The judgment was, however, rendered in the context of resistance to the

transfer of a bank's suit filed before enactment and/or enforcement of the Debt

Recovery Act, on the ground of the issues being inextricably linked with the

issues in the earlier suit of the constituent in the Original Side of this Court. Mr. Rajsekhar Mantha appearing on behalf of the South Indian Bank Ltd.

and the Global Trust Bank Ltd. (now known as Oriental Bank of Commerce)

being the defendant Nos.54 and 55, adopted the submissions of Mr.

Chakraborty. Mr. Mantha added that the learned Single Judge had considered the case

in its entirety, both on the issue of jurisdiction and on merits and had held that

injunction restraining the defendant Nos.53 to 57 from proceeding with their

application before the Debt Recovery Tribunal could not be sustained. Mr. Mantha pointed out that the attention of this Court had not been

drawn to an important fact that two other branches of the plaintiff-appellant,

namely, the Bhupen Bose Road and the Shyambazar branch also negotiated the

same series of letters of credit issued by the same employees of the Bagbazar

branch of the plaintiff-appellant during the same period of time. Even after

lodging the FIR and after refusing to honour the letters of credit negotiated by the

defendant Nos.53 to 57, the plaintiff-appellant honoured the same series of
 letters of credit negotiated by its own branches. The appellant cannot be allowed

to approbate and reprobate. The learned Single Judge has allowed the application in part. The orders

in terms of prayers (a), (b) and (c) have been confirmed. Further orders in terms

of prayers (e), (j) and (k) have also been passed against the defendant Nos.1 to 52. The prayers (f), (g), (h), (i) and (l) have been rejected. Prayer (f) is for an

order of injunction restraining the defendant banks from demanding money from

the petitioner in relation to the letters of credit. The plaintiff-appellant has

indirectly sought to achieve what cannot be achieved directly, that is, stay of

proceedings before the Debt Recovery Tribunal for all practical purposes. Prayer (g) is for an order of injunction restraining the defendant banks

from utilizing the money received from the plaintiff-appellant in respect of the

letters of credit. No case was made out in the petition for such an order. There

could be no justification in restraining the defendant banks from utilizing the

money. If ultimately, the plaintiff-appellant succeeds, the money would

necessarily have to be refunded. Prayer (h), which is for a direction to deliver the letters of credit to this

Court, so that the same can be deposited with the Registrar, Original Side till

decision in the pending suit, is also designed to obtain indirectly that which
 cannot directly be obtained, that is, effective stay of proceedings before the Debt

Recovery Tribunal. Prayer (i) for a direction on the defendant Nos 53 to 57 to file affidavits

disclosing the facts required in the said prayer, is vague, not supported by any

provision of law and in any event premature. The grant of prayer (l) that is

return of money received in respect of the letters of credit would amount to grant

of the final reliefs in the suit. The Supreme Court by its order dated 12th July, 1999, directed the High

Court to hear the application of the petitioner for interim relief on merits. The

learned Single Judge has considered the matter at length, both on the issue of

jurisdiction and on merits and held that the injunction restraining the defendant

Nos.53 to 57 from proceeding with their application before the Debt Recovery

Tribunal could not be sustained. Decision on merits includes decision on both factual and legal questions

including the question of the jurisdiction of the Court to pass orders that are

prayed for in an application. As rightly argued by Mr. Mitter, upon reference to the dictionaries referred

to above , the word 'merit' refers to the strict legal rights of the parties.

Adjudication on merits means adjudication of the real controversy in question,
 shorn off technicalities. It is a matter of substance as distinguished from a

matter of form. Adjudication of the real controversies in the interlocutory application would

necessarily involve adjudication of the right of the petitioner to obtain from

Court, the orders prayed for in the interlocutory application. The learned Single Judge has, in effect and in substance held that the

petitioner had no right to obtain stay of proceedings initiated by the concerned

defendants in the Debt Recovery Tribunal by making an interlocutory application

in a suit filed by the plaintiff-appellant in this Court. Prima facie, the application of the defendant No.53 in the Debt Recovery

Tribunal, for recovery of its alleged dues in respect of the letters of credit

negotiated and honoured by the Defendant No.53, is an application for recovery

of 'debt' within the meaning of Section 2(g) of the Debt Recovery Act, which only

the Debt Recovery Tribunal has jurisdiction to entertain and decide. The Interlocutory Court cannot exercise any jurisdiction, power or

authority in respect of an application for recovery of debt in view of the bar of

Section 18 of the Debt Recovery Act. The Interlocutory Court cannot, therefore,

pass orders that would, in effect, stay proceedings in the Debt Recovery Tribunal. Even otherwise, the Civil Court has no power to issue such interim orders

in a suit, as would restrain the respondents from proceeding with their

application in the Debt Recovery Tribunal, which does not exercise jurisdiction

inferior to that of this Court hearing suits and/or interlocutory applications, in

view of the bar of Section 41(b) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. We are unable to accept the submission of Mr. Mitter that the learned

Judge confused the principles for grant of interim relief under the Civil Procedure

Code with the grant of final relief of injunction under the Civil Procedure Code.

Interim relief is in aid of the final reliefs. If final relief of injunction cannot be

granted, the Court might not grant interim relief of injunction. For exercise of the power and/or authority to pass any specific order it is

essential that a Court should have jurisdiction. Jurisdiction of the Court goes to

the root of any claim to seek relief from that Court. Rejection of a relief on the

ground of want of jurisdiction of the Court to grant that relief does not

tantamount to rejection on a technical ground. A simple direction of the Supreme Court, to hear an application on merits,

cannot be construed as a finding of the Supreme Court on the question of

jurisdiction of this Court, hearing an interlocutory application in a suit, to stay

proceedings before the Debt Recovery Tribunal. It is true that the Supreme Court passed an interim order of stay of

proceedings before the Debt Recovery Tribunal pending decision on the

application of plaintiff-appellant for stay of the proceedings before the Tribunal,

as otherwise the direction of the Supreme Court to hear out the application for

stay of the plaintiff-appellant on merits would become infructuous. The Supreme

Court has power under Article 142 of the Constitution to pass any order to do

complete justice between the parties, which this Court lacks. The Supreme Court not having decided the question of the jurisdiction of

the High Court to pass an interim order in a suit, staying proceedings before the

Debt Recovery Tribunal, the direction of the Supreme Court to decide the

application on merits has to be construed as a direction to consider and

adjudicate the merits of the contentions of the respective parties, legal and

factual, including the merits of the contentions with regard to the jurisdiction of

this Court to stay proceedings before the Debt Recovery Tribunal. The allegations of negligence of the defendant Nos.53 to 57 in negotiating

the letters of credit are devoid of material particulars. The plaintiff-appellant has

not been able to make out a strong prima facie case of contravention of the

Uniform Customs and Practice in relation to Documentary Credits or of

negligence otherwise on the part of the said defendants. Whether the Letters of Credit were in format or not, whether the

negotiating banks could have found out whether the Letters of Credit were in

format or not, whether the defendant banks discharged their duty of scrutiny

and/or care are issues that have to be decided upon evidence. Proceedings in

the Debt Recovery Tribunal cannot, in effect, be stayed for the asking on the

basis of bald allegations. It is not the case of the plaintiff-appellant that the

concerned defendant banks were put to notice of fraud. No case of fraud was made out in the plaint or in the interlocutory

application. The plaintiff-appellant cannot make out a new case in its Affidavit-

in-Reply. An Affidavit-in-Reply cannot enlarge the scope of an application. In any case, the learned Single Judge could not have decided the question

of involvement of fraud between the defendants at the interlocutory stage. The

learned Judge, however, in effect held that the plaintiff-appellant had failed to

make out a strong prima facie case of involvement of fraud. There is no case of

involvement of the defendant Nos.53 to 57 in any fraud. The learned Single Judge was only required to see whether there was a

prima facie case. Determination of the various points made by Counsel would, in

effect, result in the prejudging of the suit. In Federal Bank Ltd. Vs. V.M. Jog Engineering Ltd. (supra), cited by Mr.

Chakraborty, the Supreme Court held as follows: At common law, the position is no different. The principle of
 reasonable care has been applied by Lord Diplock in Gian Singh &
 Co. Ltd. v. Banque de L'indochine (1974) 1 WLR 1234. The Bank has
 to examine with reasonable care to ascertain if they appear on their
 face to be in accordance with the terms and conditions of credit. In
 that case, the reference was made to Article 7 of the UCP (1962). It
 was observed that the said Article did no more than restate the duty
 of the bank at common law. If the Issuing Bank does not return them within reasonable
 time, it may be deemed that it has ratified the genuineness of the
 documents. These clauses are based on principles of common law."

 Prima facie the plaintiff-appellant did not draw the attention of the

negotiating banks to any discrepancy, irregularity or fraud, but on the other

hand approved the honouring of the Letters of Credit. For the wrong, if any, of
 the employees of the plaintiff-appellant, banks which have made payments

cannot suffer. In any case, as pointed out by Mr. Mantha, the plaintiff-appellant has

honoured letters of credit of the same series negotiated by two other branches of

the plaintiff-appellant. This in itself weakens the case sought to be made out by

the plaintiff-appellant with regard to fraud, at least prima facie. The interim

orders sought, have in our view, rightly been declined. We, however, agree with Mr. Mitter that the learned Single Judge erred in

dismissing the suit as against the defendant Nos.53 to 57. The suit has been

dismissed as against the defendant Nos.53 to 57 on the application of the

plaintiff-appellant for interlocutory reliefs. There was no formal application of the

defendant Nos.53 to 57 for dismissal of the suit against them. In the absence of

any application for dismissal of the suit the learned Single Judge was not

required to consider the maintainability of the claims of the plaintiff-appellant in

the suit against the defendant Nos.53 to 57 except to the extent necessary for

grant of the interim order prayed for by the plaintiff-appellant. We do not deem it necessary to decide whether all the reliefs claimed by the

plaintiff-appellant against the defendant Nos.53 to 57, in the suit, could have

been claimed in the Debt Recovery Tribunal, either by way of counter-claim or by

initiation of independent proceedings. In ABS Marine (supra), the Supreme Court affirmed the Division Bench

judgment of this Court holding that the prior suit for damages against the bank in that case , was not so inextricably linked with proceedings initiated by the

bank for recovery of the debt, to warrant transfer of the said prior suit to the

Tribunal. A judgment is a precedent for what it decides. ABS Marine (supra) is

neither an authority for the proposition that damages against the bank can never

be claimed in proceedings before the Debt Recovery Tribunal, by way of counter-

claim, nor an authority for the proposition that proceedings in the Debt Recovery

Tribunal should not be proceeded with until suits against the applicants in Civil

Courts are disposed of. The learned Single Judge was only required to decide whether interim

orders as prayed for by the plaintiff-appellant could be passed. In other words,

the learned Single Judge had to decide whether proceedings in the Debt Recovery

Tribunal could, in effect, be stayed in an interlocutory application, in a suit filed

before this Court. Even assuming that some of the reliefs claimed in the suit

could be claimed in proceedings before the Debt Recovery Tribunal, the dismissal

of the suit as against the defendant Nos.53 to 57, at the interlocutory stage,

cannot be sustained. We, therefore, set aside the judgment and order under appeal only to the

extent that the suit filed by the plaintiff-appellant has been dismissed as against

the defendant Nos.53 to 57. SURINDER SINGH NIJJAR, CJ. I agree. (SURINDER SINGH NIJJAR, CJ.)

 (INDIRA BANERJEE, J.)