1. This is a commercial suit for recovery of Rs.

6,37,131/- (Rupees Six Lakhs Thirty Seven Thousands One

hundred Thirty One only) alongwith interest. 2. The plaintiff has filed the present suit for recovery

of Rs. 6,37,131/- with interest against the defendants.

Summons were sent to defendant which were duly served but

no written statement was filed as per law, therefore defense

was struck off vide order dated 21.10.2024. Later on due to

non-appearance defendant was proceeded against ex-parte. 3. The plaintiff has led ex-parte evidence and

examined its AR Mr. Manoj Kumar Birla as PW-1 being sole

witness of the plaintiff who tendered his affidavit of

examination-in-chief as Ex.PW-1/A and relied upon following

documents:- 4. I have heard ld. Counsel for plaintiff and carefully

perused the record. 5. Before proceeding further, it is necessary to have

a reference to the actual issue raised by the plaintiff in the

present suit. The nature of transaction as mentioned in the

plaint and facts of the case as described by the plaintiff are

not easy to be understood, so the relevant portion of the

plaint is being reproduced hereinafter for ready reference. and was brought to the notice of the Defendant no. 1. It is vital to mention that against this cheque the
 Defendant no. 1 had paid Rs. 99,000/- through
 RTGS, whereas the remaining amount is pending.
 The copy of Return memo is ANNEXURE P8". 6. A bare perusal of the above story put forward by

the plaintiff in the plaint, would show that the plaint filed by

the plaintiff is highly vague, ambiguous, uncertain and

unclear. The facts mentioned in the plaint do not convey a CS (Comm) No. 454/2024 Page No. 7/11 M/s M.D. Trading House vs. Mr. Raj Kumar Thakral & Anr.
 meaningful version and it is not clear as to what was the

actual transaction between the parties for which the present

suit has been filed. The plaintiff has failed to explain properly

as to what types of dealings were there between the parties

and what is the agreement which has been violated by the

defendants or what is the exact liability of the defendants. 7. Though, the plaintiff has led evidence in this

matter and has examined its AR as PW-1 but the said

witness has also not been able to remove the ambiguities in

the case of the plaintiff and the ambiguities have been simply

perpetuated. 8. So, in the first instance, the plaintiff has failed to

plead and prove a meaningful case. 9. Secondly, the suit filed by the plaintiff is also

suffering from a major legal lacuna. The plaintiff is claimed to

be a registered partnership firm, as mentioned in para 1 of

the plaint but no valid documents regarding registration of the

plaintiff firm with Registrar of Firms have been brought on CS (Comm) No. 454/2024 Page No. 8/11 M/s M.D. Trading House vs. Mr. Raj Kumar Thakral & Anr.
 record. Initially, one partnership deed dated 05.01.2024,

registered with Sub-Registrar was placed on record which

was tendered in evidence as Ex.PW-1/1 but the said

document is not a document showing registration of the firm

with the Registrar of Firms. Registration of partnership deed

with Sub-Registrar is entirely different from the Registration of

Partnership firm with Registrar of Firms. 10. During course of proceedings, copies of Form A &

B regarding registration of plaintiff firm with Registrar of Firms

was filed on 09.04.2025 which shows that the firm was

registered with the Registrar during pendency of the present

suit on 24.02.2025. It is admitted case of the plaintiff, during

course of arguments, that plaintiff firm was not registered with

the Registrar of Firms at the time of filing of the suit. 11. Section 69 (2) of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932

prescribes that no suit to enforce a right arising from a

contract shall be instituted in any court by or on behalf of a

firm against third party unless the firm is registered and the

persons suing are or have been shown in the Register of CS (Comm) No. 454/2024 Page No. 9/11 M/s M.D. Trading House vs. Mr. Raj Kumar Thakral & Anr.
 Firms as partners in the firm. 12. Since, the plaintiff firm was admittedly not

registered with the Registrar of Firms on the date of filing of

the present suit and the name of Sh. Manoj Kumar Birla was

not shown in the Register of Firms as partner of the plaintiff

firm, the present suit is clearly barred under section 69 (2) of

the Indian Partnership Act, 1932. Neither the registration of

partnership deed Ex.PW-1/1 with the Sub-Registrar nor the

subsequent registration of the firm with Registrar of firms on

25.02.2025 is able to cure the defect regarding non-

compliance of section 69 (2) of the Partnership Act. 13. Considering the above facts and circumstances, it

is clear that not only the suit filed by the plaintiff is barred by

law by virtue of non-compliance of section 69 (2) of the Indian

Partnership Act, 1932, the plaintiff has also failed to plead

and prove a meaningful case for its entitlement for recovery

of suit amount from the defendants. CS (Comm) No. 454/2024 Page No. 10/11 M/s M.D. Trading House vs. Mr. Raj Kumar Thakral & Anr. 14. With above observations, the suit filed by plaintiff

 is dismissed. 15 Decree-sheet be prepared accordingly and file be

 consigned to record room after completing the necessary

 formalities. Passed & announced in the open court today. M/s M.D. Trading House vs. Mr. Raj Kumar Thakral & Anr.