PER: R.C. SHARMA, A.M.

 This is an appeal filed by the assessee against the order of

ld.CIT(A)-2, Jaipur dated 28/03/2019 for the A.Y. 2015-16 in the matter

of order passed U/s 143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (in short, the

Act). Following grounds have been taken by the assessee: 2. The ld. CIT(A) erred in law as well in the facts of the case in
 confirming the disallowance of Rs. 24,04,26,504/- claimed on
 account of Short-Term Capital Loss (STCL) claimed by the assessee.
 The lower authorities proceeded completely on misconception of
 facts and law, lack of knowledge with regard to the Share and
 Mutual Fund transactions as also being ignorant with regard to
 the binding Law of the Land. The disallowance of STCL, so made
 being contrary to the provisions of law and facts, kindly be
 allowed in full. 3. Rs.14,42,282/-: The ld. CIT(A) erred in law as well as
 on the facts of the case in restricting the disallowance
 up to Rs.1,00,000/- on account of Employee Benefit Expenses. The
 disallowance so made and confirmed, being contrary to the
 provisions of law and facts kindly be deleted full. 4. Rs.8,13,000/-: The ld. CIT(A) erred in law as well as on
 the facts of the case in restricting the disallowance up to
 Rs.50,000/- on account of other Expenses. The disallowance so
 made and confirmed, being contrary to the provisions of law and
 facts kindly be deleted full. 5. The ld. AO further erred in law as well as on the facts of
 the case in charging interest u/s 234A , 234B , 234C and 234D of the Act and as also in withdrawing interest
 u/s 244 A of the Act . The appellant totally denies its liability
 of charging and withdrawal of any such interest. The interest so
 charged/withdrawn, being contrary to the provisions of law and
 facts, kindly be deleted in full. 6. The appellant prays your honour indulgences to add, amend or
 alter of or any of the grounds of appeal on or before the date of
 hearing." 2. Rival contentions have been heard and record perused. Facts in

brief are that the assessee company is engaged in the business of buying

and selling commodities, articles and merchandise. For the year under
 3 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO consideration, the assessee filed return declaring total income of Rs.

81,42,790/-, which was assessed by the A.O. at Rs. 25,15,58,240/-.

During the course of assessment, the A.O. found that the assessee has

earned long term capital gain of Rs. 26.79 crores on sale of immovable

property, thereafter the assessee has taken loan of Rs. 50.00 crores from

M/s India Infoline Finance Ltd. (IIFL) on 17/10/2014. The A.O. further

observed that out of loan amount, the assessee has purchased units of

mutual funds of JM Financial Mutual Fund amounting to Rs. 50.00 crores,

on which the assessee has earned dividend of Rs. 10.33 crores and Rs.

17.62 crores. The A.O. further stated that soon after earning dividend, a

redemption was taken place on 26/3/2015 wherein the assessee has

suffered loss of Rs. 24.04 crores. This loss was set off against the capital

gain of Rs. 26.79 crores earned by the assessee. The assessee has also

claimed dividend income exempt U/s 10(33) of the Act. The A.O. has

further observed that it appears that by all these ways, the assessee has

concocted a story beautifully in connivance with M/s JM Financial Mutual

Funds and M/s India Infoline Finance and attempted to prepare a

colorable device just to set off the capital gain earned on sale of

immovable property and also by claiming exemption on the dividend

earned just within three to five months. Considering that transaction was

not genuine and fictitious, the A.O. disallowed set off of short-term capital
 4 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO loss. The A.O. also disallowed interest expenses of Rs. 5,83,662/-,

disallowance on account of employee benefit expenses of Rs. 15,42,282/-

and also disallowed other expenses of Rs. 8,63,000/-. 3. By the impugned order, the ld. CIT(A) confirmed the action of the

A.O. with respect to disallowance of short-term capital loss of Rs. 24.04

crores. Interest disallowance was deleted by the ld. CIT(A). The ld.

CIT(A) has also deleted Rs. 1.00 lacs out of disallowance of employee

benefit expenses and Rs. 50,000/- on account of other expenses. Now

the assessee is in further appeal before the ITAT. 4. We have considered the rival contentions and carefully gone

through the orders of the authorities below. The relevant extract of the

assessment order wherein the A.O. has made various allegations for

disallowing short term capital loss and other expenses are as under: 5 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO mutual funds from this company. Further, the assessee has earned 56%
dividend on the mutual funds. On perusal of the above facts, it appears that by
all these ways the assessee has concocted a story beautifully in connivance
with the M/s .1 M Financial Mutual Fund and M/s India Infoline Finance
attempted to prepare a colorable device just to set off the capital gain earned
on sale of immovable property and also by claiming exemption on the dividend
earned just within the three to five months. For further clarification, it would be appropriate to go through the section 94(7) of the I.T. Act which reads as under: Then, the loss, if any, arising to him on account of such purchase and sale of
securities or unit, to the extent such loss does not exceed the amount of dividend or
income received or receivable on such securities or units, shall be ignored for the
purposes of computing his income chargeable to tax.

3.1 Herein, the facts of the assessee's case indicate that there is attempt by the
assessee in connivance with the Companies M/s J M Financial Mutual Funds and
M/s India Infoline Finance to make such conditions happen so that provisions of section 94(7) cannot be applicable in its case and short term capital, loss so claimed
to have occurred can be adjected against the capital gain earned on sale of
immovable property. Therefore, vide show-cause letter dated 27.12.2017 the
assessee was required to show-cause as to why short term capital loss on
redemption of units of mutual funds may not allowed to be adjusted against the
Long term capital gain and further claim of dividend as exempt income should not
be disallowed. 3.2 In response thereto, The Ld. A/r of the assessee has filed his reply which is
reproduced as under: 3.4 In response thereto, the ld. A/r of the assessee has filed his reply which is
reproduced as under: 3.5 I have considered the reply filed by the assessee which is not found tenable
as the facts and circumstances of the assessee's case prima-facie indicates that
there is attempt by the assessee to evade tax through a pre-planned conspiracy
in connivance with the M/s J M Financial Mutual Funds and M/s Infoline Finance
Limited by creating exempt income of Rs. 27,96,50,506/- from mutual fund just
within a period of three to five months, this contention is further supported by
the following facts: 7 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO (v) The company M/s JM Mutual Fund has declared first dividend of Rs.
10,33,53,421/- on 28.1.2015 soon after completing 3 months of purchasing the
units of Mutual Fund on 17.10.2014. (vi) In no way, there are probabilities of earning 56% of dividends just within
a period of three to five months. How the assessee get to know that it would be
earning such huge amount of dividend just within three to five months from a
company which has not declared any dividend in past years. (vii) Further, the assessee company which claims to have veteran Directors who
in the possibilities of getting better make the company chose to make investment
by purchasing of units of mutual funds by taking loan of Rs. 50 Cr from a
company which has not declared any dividend in past years. (viii) The assessee company has got its bank accounts bearing account number-
50200007646702 opened on 15.09.2014 in HDFC Bank, Mumbai and M/s India
Infoline Financial Ltd., operating this account in the capacity of Power of Attorney
holder. 3.6 All the above facts clearly show the modus-operandi as to how a colorable
device has been prepared by the assessee company in connivance with M/s JM
Financial and M/s India Infoline just by creating capital loss to set off the long term
capital gain on sale of land. The AIR of the assessee has failed to explain
satisfactorily the reasons why such huge amount was invested in purchasing the
units of mutual funds of the company which has not declared any dividend in past
years and in the year under consideration, the assessee has earned huge
dividend of Rs. 27 crore from the said company. Thus, all this is a pre-planned
story fabricated to set-off the short term capital loss so claimed to have earned
on redemption of units of mutual funds after earning dividend of Rs. 27 crores
against the long term capital gain on sale of immovable property. 8 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO 3.7 Therefore, in the light of the facts narrated above, the short term capital
 loss claimed by the assessee is disallowed. Further, set off of the same against
 the long term capital gain on the sale of the immovable property is disallowed
 and added in the total income of the assessee." 5. In an appeal filed before the ld. CIT(A), the assessee has filed

detailed written submissions which was forwarded by the ld. CIT(A) to

the A.O. for his comments. During the remand proceedings, the A.O.

conducted some enquiries at the back of the assessee and notices were

issued U/s 133(6) of the Act to M/s JM Financial Mutual Funds, HDFC

Bank Ltd, IIFL, SEBI, JM Financial Trustee Co. Ltd.. We found that

favourable replies were given by all these institutions, however, the A.O.

kept a complete silence on the development of these vital facts. However,

vide remand report dated 23/01/2019, the A.O. again repeated his

allegations and findings as were recorded in the impugned assessment

order. Without giving his comments, he also filed copies of notices issued

u/s 133(6) of the Act and replies received from them. 6. By the impugned order, the ld. CIT(A) confirmed the action of the

A.O. by observing that the assessee with the collusion of broker, (in this

case it is IIFL) who not only provided services as broker/consultant but

also provided the funds to the assessee for making the investments in the

units of Mutual Funds promoted by JM Financial Mutual Fund had incurred
 9 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO short term loss on mutual funds. Referring Wikipedia, the ld. CIT(A)

observed that IIFL along with few other top brokers have been accused

of various irregularities. The ld. CIT(A) also stated in his order that

Economic Offences Wing (EOW)-Mumbai and Serious Fraud Investigation

Office (SFIO) have found the top 5 brokers including llFL guilty of

misselling NSEL contracts, KYC manipulation, client code modification',

benami transactions & infusion of black money through their NBFCs on

the Exchange platform. The ld. CIT(A) further observed that the

investment was made in the mutual fund which had not declared any

dividend since 2010 and suddenly after investment was made by the

assessee it started paying dividend which was abnormally high as

compared to its past history and not commensurate with its financial

position. The ld. CIT(A) also alleged that the assessee never made such a

huge investment in any mutual fund earlier and it is only in the year of

appeal when it had capital gains from sale of immovable property that the

entire transaction of investment in mutual fund was carried out. The

investment of Rs. 50.00 crores were made by borrowing the funds from

llFL and no security except the equitable mortgage of the units purchased

from such funds were pledged. A new bank account was also opened for

this transaction. 10 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO 7. The ld. CIT(A) also observed that the llFL was appointed as

consultant tor making of investment of funds so borrowed form llFL itself.

The assessee itself was unaware of the financial performance of the Fund

in which investment was made which was done by IIFL. The performance

of JM Financial Mutual Fund can be seen from its performance chart. As

per the same the funds previous as well as the subsequent performance

was not a bench mark to suggest any investor for making such a huge

investment. 8. The ld. CIT(A) also alleged that by making such investment, a huge

short-term capital loss was incurred by getting redemption of the units

after distribution of dividend. The entire transaction was a sham as it is

neither results of a coincidence nor of a genuine investment activity but

were created through well planned and executed scheme in which the

company and the brokers worked in tandem to achieve the

predetermined objectives. 9. In view of the above, the ld. CIT(A) concluded that in this instant

case even though prima facie it appears that the assessee received the

dividend in normal course and incurred loss out of redemption of the

units of JM Financial Mutual Fund, in reality it was his own fund which he

received back through some Clandestine deals in the shape of dividend
 11 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO and claimed it as exempt. Further loss incurred on such deals was

adjusted against the long term capital gain from the sale of immovable

property. 10. We had carefully gone through the various documentary evidences

filed before the lower authorities in support of the genuineness of the

transaction which comprises as under: 11.10.2017, which have all entries including interest due along with

repayment detail. The assessee has also filed bank statement of HDFC

Bank Ltd. bearing account number 50200007646702 (PBI 31-32) in which

the payment reflected. As regard purchase of mutual fund of Rs.50

crores, the assessee filed vide letter dated 11.10.2017 (PBI 47-48) copy

of statement dated 01.12.2014 issued by JM Financial Mutual Fund (PBI 30) in which purchase of JM Balanced Fund through JM financial mutual

fund unit 1,98,75,657/884 @ 25.1564 on dated 17.10.2014 is clearly

shown. In the same statement it is stated that the same unit has been

lien marked by IIFL on 03.11.2014. 11. We had also gone through the replies received by the A.O. during

the course of remand proceedings from various concerned parties to

whom the A.O. has issued notices which clearly established the

genuineness of transaction. However, the remand report sent by the A.O.

did not rebut the reply of these agencies and the A.O. failed to bring any
 13 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO contrary evidence on record. However, the A.O. maintained a

conspicuous silence on the various vital piece of evidences in the shapes

of replies given to him directly at the back of the assessee because the

same strongly support the assessee`s case. 12. Now we analyse the query raised by the A.O. and the reply given

by these agencies, which are as under: (iii) Letter by M/s J.M. Financial dated 15.01.2018 (PBIII 589): 15 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO 13. In view of above documentary evidence, we found that the lower

authorities completely failed to rebut evidences and explanations so filed

by these agencies so as to conclude that it was a colourable device or any

connivance with the companies to evade tax by booking loss. 14. With regard to allegation of the A.O. that no proper security was

furnished for taking a loan of Rs. 50.00 crores from M/s IIFL, we found

that as a security of loan the assessee has pledged (lien) the units so

purchased. It is true that IIFL provided funds to the assessee but IIFL is

neither the investment consultant of the assessee nor provided the funds

to specifically invest in JMF-MF. The IIFL entered into the transaction in a

normal course of business and received the interest. It is pertinent to

note that this is not the ordinary business loan but this is a margin

finance facility provided by the broker M/s IIFL. This is the common

practice in the stock market that the brokers provide the margin facility to

its customers and get interest in return. In the ordinary course every

broker provides margin finance of 15 times and some broker are

providing margin even up to 48 times. Such margin is provided to the

customer to finance his trading/investment and the broker gets the

interest if the investor is carrying forward the position next day. The

margin facility so provided by the IIFL was to trade / invest by paying

11.70% p.a. to IIFL however, the funds were not specifically provided to
 16 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO invest in JMF-MF. Hence allegation of the AO that no security except the

equitable mortgage of the units purchased (from such funds), is a mere

suspicion and is an allegation premature in nature. 15. The sanction letter of IIFL itself shows the security towards loan as

under: It is thus, clear that the assessee has pledged (lien) his units as security

for the loan." 16. The allegation of the A.O. that the assessee has concocted a story

beautifully in connivance with the JMF-MF and IIFL attempted to prepare

a colorable device just to set off the capital gains earned on sale of

immovable property and also by claiming exemption on the dividend

earned just within three to five months is baseless in so far as the IIFL

has got nothing to do either with the present assessee or with the JM
 17 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO

Financial or with the tax affairs of the present assessee i.e. neither for nor

against the Income Tax Department. It was a commercial deal of getting

a loan based on agreement between the parties i.e. the lender IIFL and

the borrower assessee. Assuming it was so and IIFL knew the fact of

declaration of high dividend, then why IIFL should have sanctioned a

huge loan to the assessee and instead IIFL itself could have done so and

earned substantially. 17. From the order of the A.O. we found that the AO alleged the

connivance between all the three parties i.e. the assessee, JMF-MF and

IIFL but at the same time however, the CIT(A) confined such alleged

connivance between the assessee and the IIFL only, meaning thereby, as

per CIT(A) there was nothing wrong was found between the assessee

and the JMF-MF. Resultantly, the transactions carried out between the

assessee and JMF-MF were thus beyond suspicion by own admission of

the CIT(A). The finding of the CIT(A) to this extent is also not under

challenge by the revenue and therefore has become final. 18. As regards allegation of connivance between the assessee and IIFL,

we found that looking to the stringent regulations, close supervision by

the statutory bodies and IIFL having a strong reputation in the finance

market and moreover, the assessee's investment being a very meager
 18 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO part of the various schemes floated by IIFL, it is a baseless allegation and

more in the nature of suspicion. 19. The ld. CIT(A) has also levied allegation with reference to the

Economic Offences Wing, Mumbai and Serious Fraud Investigation Office

with regard to top five brokers including IIFL guilty of misselling NSEL

contracts etc. We found that the assessee has dealt with the Mutual

Funds of M/s J.M Financial Mutual Funds which, is a very renowned

mutual fund who has been in the field of financial market since 1973. A

perusal of the Annual Report of the subjected mutual fund obtained from

the website on 10.01.2019 from www.jmfinancialmf.com as placed on

record clearly shows huge Net Asset Value (NAV) of Rs.3604.39 Cr. of the

Fund which is many times more than the value which it had at the time of

the issuance of the units. This Report also shows a consistent upward

trend in the performance which has all along been more than the

benchmark fixed in various years starting from 2013 to year 2018. These

facts speak of very high of the subjected mutual fund and doesn't need

any further certification. This report further shows that the investment

made by the mutual fund were also in the most reputed

industries/companies which find place in the list of Nifty 50 and Sensex

viz. HDFC Ltd, Reliance Industries Ltd, HDFC Bank Ltd, TCS, Infosys, ITC,

ICICI Bank Ltd to name a few. Such information is also available in the
 19 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO portfolio of the JM Financial taken from the Annual Report of the JM

Financial for the FY 2014-15. The Audited Accounts and Annual Reports

of both JMF-MF and IIFL have also been verified by us as placed on

record. 20. We also observe that the ld. CIT(A) has referred to and heavily

relied upon an article available on the website Wikipedia, wherein it was

mentioned that IIFL has been accused of various irregularities. The ld.

CIT(A) on his own obtained such article and made use of the same ex-

parte against the assessee but at the same time she did not provide any

opportunity to the assessee to explain the new material and even without

confronting the assessee which was being used against the assessee. A

blind use of such material was not sufficient in itself unless the contents

of the material are tested and verified and found fit for the context for

which, is being used and therefore, the same is not capable of being cited

in a court of law. Moreover, the reliability of such material, which is

admittedly a publicly editable site is highly under doubt. The Wikipedia

aggregate the news/articles from various sources and the article referred

by the CIT(A) has been taken from Hindu Business Line, Economic Times

etc. The ld. CIT(A) relied upon the news of these websites without

bringing on record any order of SEBI/SAT for such alleged misconduct. 20 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO 21. With regard to authenticity of Wikipedia, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of Commr. of Customs, Bangalore vs. ACER India Pvt.

(Citation 2007(12) SCALE 581) (DPB 20-27), has held that

 "17. We have referred to Wikipedia, as the learned counsel for the parties relied
 thereupon. It is an online encyclopedia and information can be entered therein
 by any person and as such it may not be authentic.........." 22. Further the series of event which took place in the case of IIFL

 and some other brokers and referred by the CIT(A) relates to the year

 2016 onwards whereas the assessee entered into the transaction much

 earlier through IIFL in 2014. Secondly these events related to the

 Commodity derivatives whereas the assessee entered into purchase and

 sale of mutual funds which is a completely different segment.

22.1 As regards the allegation by the authorities below that a colourful

device has been prepared by the assessee in connivance with M/s JM

Financial and M/s India Infoline just by creating capital loss to get set off

of the long-term capital gain on the sale of land, we found that all the

schemes of mutual fund can be circulated only after fulfilling all the

prescribed conditions under the relevant laws, rules-regulations etc. and

only after approval of the prescribed authorities like SEBI and RBI. These

regulating bodies grant approval only after ensuring a strict compliance of

the requirements and the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions. 21 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO

Moreover , the entire process of the Issue from A to Z is carried out under

the strict supervision and control of the regulating bodies. This is for the

simple reason that the hard-earned money of the several investors and

the public at large, is invested in such mutual fund schemes and the

regulating bodies have to ensure that only bonafide schemes are floated

by the renowned Mutual Funds, wherein there are absolutely no chance

of the public being defrauded. In the instant case, it is not denied that

the subjected Scheme has also been floated after observing all the

formalities, getting approvals, under supervision and so on. Furthermore,

the SEBI, the regulatory authority for Indian Mutual Fund Industry has

consistently introduced several regulatory measures in order to protect

the interest of investors. SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, (r/w SEBI Act, 1992 ) is the principal regulation for Mutual Funds. The assessee

invested in JM Balanced Fund which is a Balanced Fund Scheme

("Scheme") floated by JM Financial Mutual Funds. A Balanced Fund

Scheme normally consist of the mutual funds based on equity and debt

funds both. 23. We also observe that the mutual fund in which the assessee has

invested was a Balanced Fund Scheme of JMF-MF where strategic

allocations to both i.e. debt and equities, were made by the Funds

Managers of the JMF-MF. The balanced funds have moderate risks
 22 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO because the debt portfolio of the Scheme provides the stability and the

Equity provides the growth. In our country the SEBI has very strict

regulations for Mutual Funds for the investor's protection. In Indian

context right from the inception i.e. from the floating of a Scheme till

carrying out the operations, there are involved as many as five different

constituents, who are quite separate, distinct and independent from each

other. Before a scheme is launched, the Mutual Fund is formed by a Trust

Body, the business is set up by the Sponsor, the money is invested by the

Asset Management Company (AMC) and the operations are monitored by

the Trustees. Apart from these four constituents in a Mutual Funds, three

market intermediaries are also involved in the formation and functioning

of the Mutual Fund. The function of all these constituents and the market

intermediaries, are further elaborated as under with reference to the JM

Financial Mutual Funds: The Sponsor forms the Mutual Fund. In the case of the assessee, JM

Financial Limited is the Sponsor for the JM Financial Mutual Funds. The

JM Financial Limited is an independent entity registered under Companies

Act, 1956 in the year 1973. The JM Financial Limited is a company listed

in both BSE and NSE. The company is well reputed in the Investment
 23 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO

Management Sector and having Market Capitalization of more than 7500

Crores. 25. Moreover, every Mutual Fund is compulsorily required to appoint an

Asset Management Company to comply with Regulation 7(f) of SEBI

(Mutual Fund) Regulation, 1996. As per Regulation 21 of the SEBI

(Mutual Fund) Regulation, 1996 the SEBI grant approval to AMC only if it

has a sound track record, general reputation and fairness in all

transactions. The directors of the AMC are persons having requisite and

adequate professional experience in the field finance and financial

services related field and not found guilty of moral turpitude or convicted

of any economic offence or violation of any securities laws. The key

personnel of the AMC should not have been found guilty of moral

turpitude or convicted of economic offence or violation of securities laws

or worked for any AMC or Mutual Fund or any Intermediary during the

period when its registration has been suspended or cancelled at any time

by the Board. The Board of Directors of such AMC has at least fifty per

cent directors, who are not associate of, or associated in any manner

with, the sponsor or any of its subsidiaries or the trustees. The Chairman

of the asset management company is not a trustee of any mutual fund

and AMC has a net worth of not less than 50 Crore Rupees. The AMC is

an entity registered under the Companies Act to manage the money
 24 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO invested in the mutual fund and to operate the schemes of the Mutual

Fund as per the Mutual Funds Regulations, 1996. It carries the

responsibility of investing and managing the investor's money.

Professional Fund Managers are appointed by the AMC to ensure that the

investor's corpus is invested in the profitable securities based on the risk

appetite of the investor and according to objectives of Mutual Fund

Scheme. 26. In the instant case, M/s JM Financial Asset Management Limited is

the Asset Management Company for JM Financial Mutual Funds. The JM

Financial Asset Management Limited is company incorporated under Companies Act, 1956 on dated 09.06.1994 which is a completely distinct

entity from J M Financial. 27. In respect of the trustee, we observe that the appointment of

Trustees is compulsorily required as per Regulation 7(e) of SEBI (Mutual

Fund) Regulation, 1996. The Trust is headed by Trustees. The trustees

hold the property of the Mutual Fund in the trust for the benefit of the

unit holders and looks into the legal requirements of operating and

functioning of the Mutual Fund. The Trustees also have the duty to

monitor the actions of the AMC to ensure compliance with the SEBI

Regulations and to see that the decisions of the AMC are not against the
 25 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO interest of the unit holders. Here, the JM Financial Trustee Company

Private Limited is the Trust for JM Financial Mutual Funds. The JM

Financial Trustee Company has been promoted by JM Financial &

Investment Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd and JM Financial Limited (The

Sponsor). The Trustee Company is registered under Companies Act, 1956 on dated 09.06.1994. The Sponsor JM Financial Limited executed a Trust

Deed on 01.09.1994 appointing JM Financial Trustee Company Pvt. Ltd.

as Trustee Company of JM Financial Mutual Fund. The Trustee of The JM

Financial Trustee Company Pvt. Ltd. are eminent personalities with varied

experience of managing Public Sector Mutual Funds and investments. It is

pertinent to mention that the Board of Directors of the JM Financial

Mutual Fund consist of the eminent personalities of the country who are

the experts of the Financial Market and the CEO Shri Nimesh Kampani has

been the Awarded as the Best Fund Manager Award as well. 28. We also observe that every Mutual Fund is also required to appoint

a custodian in order to keep custody of securities as per Regulation 7(g) of SEBI (Mutual Fund) Regulation, 1996. Custodian is a person who has

been granted a certificate of registration to conduct the business of

custodial service under the SEBI (Custodian of Securities) Regulations,

1996. Maintenance of Records and collection of benefit/rights accruing to

a client falls within the preview of Custodian. The renowned financial
 26 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO service organization HDFC Bank Ltd. is the custodian and depository for

the JM Financial Mutual Fund vide SEBI Registration No. IN/CUS/001

dated 02.02.1998. M/s JM Financial Limited is the sole sponsor of JM

Financial Mutual Fund. As per Regulation 7 of SEBI (Mutual Funds)

Regulations, 1996 the eligibility criteria for registration are as under; and (iii) the net worth in the immediately preceding year is more than
 the capital contribution of the sponsor in the asset management
 company; and (iv) the sponsor has profits after providing for depreciation, interest and
 tax in three out of the immediately preceding five years, including the
 fifth year; 7(aa) the applicant is a fit and proper person;] (b) in the case of an existing
 mutual fund, such fund is in the form of a trust and the trust deed has been
 approved by the Board; (c) the sponsor has contributed or contributes at least
 40% to the net worth of the asset management company" 27 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO worth of assets under its management, having huge 4 decades

experience of working in investment management. 29. In view of the above, we can conclude that the Investment Making,

Declaration of Dividend and all other decisions relating to investments of

fund proceeds are taken by AMC. To ensure independence of AMC and its

Fund Managers the Regulation 16(3) of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations

provides that no Asset Management Company and no director (including

independent director), officer or employee of an AMC shall be eligible to

be appointed as a trustee of any mutual fund. Further Regulation 16(4) provides that No person, who is appointed as a trustee of a Mutual Fund

shall be eligible to be appointed as a trustee of any other mutual fund. To

ensure complete independence and demarcation of investing decisions

and administrative decisions Regulation 16(5) provides that two thirds of

the trustees shall be independent persons and shall not be associated

with the sponsors or to be associated with them in any manner what so

ever. The SEBI has also provided strict regulation to be complied with

before the launch of any Scheme. As per Regulation 28 , the Scheme is

launched by the AMC only after getting approval from the Trustees and

submitting offer document with the SEBI. In principle, approval from

Stock Exchange is also required in case of listed units. Regulation 18 of

SEBI (Mutual Fund) Regulation, 1996 requires that before launch of any
 28 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO scheme appointment of fund managers are to be made after duly

considering their educational qualification and experience. Auditors are

required to be appointed before launch of any Scheme. It is worthwhile to

note that the funds of the JM Financial has been audited by renowned

Auditing Firm SR Batliboi and Associates. The Auditor of the fund and

Auditor of the AMC shall not be associated in any manner as requited

under Regulation 55(1) . Regulation 18 also requires to appoint a

compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance

of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Notifications, Guidelines and Instructions

etc. Regulation 18 (4A) of SEBI (Mutual Fund) Regulation, 1996 requires

that the compliance officer appointed under clause (d) of sub regulation

(4) shall immediately and independently report to the Board any

noncompliance observed by him. The fund is also required to prepare a

periodic compliance manual and designed internal control mechanism

including an internal audit system. 30. In view of above discussion, we observe that there are several

balances and checks provided by the Statute and several independent

Government and Semi Government bodies and experts have been

introduced to ensure the bonafide, genuineness of the Scheme floated by

a Mutual Fund. Therefore, unless a very specific allegation supported by a
 29 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO direct and cogent evidence is brought on record, nobody can make

allegations merely on suspicion on his whims and fancies. 31. We had also carefully gone through the reply given by JMF dated

04/01/2018 & 29.11.17 to AO's latter dated 28.12.2017 & 29.12.2017.

The allegation of the A.O. was that the JM Financial Mutual Funds has not

declared any dividend in the past year and the assessee had purchased

mutual funds from this company. Further the assessee earned 52%

dividend on the mutual funds. Similarly, the allegation of the ld. CIT(A)

was that the investment was made in the mutual fund which had not

declared any dividend since 2010 and suddenly after investment was

made by the assessee it started paying dividend which was abnormally

high as compared to its past history and not commensurate with its

financial position. In this regard we observe that the dividend making

decision can be taken by the fund only after duly considering all the

regulatory requirements. The stringent provisions of Regulation 18(17) and 18(18) of SEBI (Mutual Fund) Regulation, 1996 requires that all the

transactions carried out between the Mutual Funds, Asset Management

Company and its associates are subject to quarterly review by the

Trustees. The Trustees are also required to review the net worth of Asset

Management Company and in case of any short fall, to ensure that the

AMC makes up for short fall. Dividends are declared only after compliance
 30 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO with Regulation 52A. Had there been any mal practice by the Mutual

Fund, the SEBI has full rights to carry out inspections and Audit as per Regulation 61 . 32. As regard the repeated allegation of lower authorities that JM

Financial has not declared any dividend in the past, we found that such a

statement was factually wrong. The name of JM Balanced Mutual Fund, is

presently known as JM Equity Hybrid Fund (D). As per notice cum

addendum issued by JM Financial Mutual Fund of the change of the name

from JM Balanced Fund to JM Equity Hybrid Fund. A perusal of the

information with regard to the declaration of the dividend by the said

Fund in different years, as available on the website of

www.moneycontrol.com clearly shows that the said fund has been

consistently declaring dividend in last several years and starting since the

year 1998, it has been declaring dividend continuously since then. It has

declared dividend 13 times. The subjected declaration of the dividend is

14th and 15th one. Though all these information's are already available in

the public domain through the website yet the AO neither made any

inquiry directly from the JM Financial nor has tried to verify from market

research and information websites. Thus, such allegation being factually

wrong and no adverse inference can be drawn therefrom. 31 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO 33. The A.O. has also alleged that the mutual fund has declared

dividend as high as 52% and therefore, the AO very comfortably smacked

something wrong and conspiracy between the assessee and the JM

Financial Mutual Fund as also the IIFL (the lender). However, the scene is

completely otherwise in as much as it was not at all within the hands of

the assessee or anybody employees of these entities or in the hand of

anybody else for this reason to influence or to get the dividend declared

at his own wishes. The earnings of the Mutual Fund are directly based

upon the type/nature of the investment made by the Mutual Fund.

Needless to say, that the declaration of the dividend by the companies

depends upon the several factors and market sentiments. It has to be

kept in mind that it is not guaranteed that there will always be a profit

but the companies might have also sustained huge losses with the result

that the mutual funds would not have been able to declare any dividend

at all. It was only keeping in mind the past track record, better

performance and the good market movement in the Indian Capital Market

that the AMC made investments in those companies and directors of the

assessee company also having a vast experience, decided to invest in JM

Mutual Fund. 34. We also observe as per material available on record that at the

relevant point of time the Modi Government was hoping to come in the
 32 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO center which has directly influence the market sentiments and it started

going up and witnessed a tremendous increase thereafter. For this

reason, the said mutual fund could perform better. In the annual report

2014-15 of JMF-MF it is stated as under: 35. In view of the above, the suspicion of the AO on this aspect is

completely baseless. To prove his allegation that 52% dividend was

declared in connivance, it was for him to have established beyond all

reasonable doubts but he is completely silent as regards the onus lay

upon him. 36. We also observe that final dividend was to be declared and

distributed is based on the availability of the distributable surplus. A

perusal of the Audited Financial Statements of JMF-MF for FY 2014-15

reveals a huge amount of the reserves and surplus standing at Rs.483
 33 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO

Crores and the current year profits stood at Rs.1772 Crores. Hence, there

is nothing wrong in the Fund declaring dividend at 52%. We also found

that JMF has also confirmed the same vide 29.11.2017 in reply to AO's

letter 22.11.2017. 37. From the record we also found that starting from 2010, the last

dividend was declared on 19th March, 2010 @Rs.1.50 p.u.. But

thereafter, there has been a long gap of five years and next dividend

could be declared only on 28.01.2015 @ Rs. 5.20/- p.u.. Since there has

been a long gap, hence JM Mutual Fund has declared comparative higher

amount of dividend to maintain its goodwill on the one hand and also

because there were accumulated profits of five years and the profits

stood accumulated in a period of five years and accordingly, NAV was

also going up accordingly. Therefore, a higher amount of dividend was

found to be suitable by the management. Another aspect is that, when

this mutual fund could declare dividend @25% way back in year 2005 on

09.03.2005 and thereafter again declared dividend of 19% in the year

2006 (as per the chart given herein under)

 Chart of Dividend History

 Record Date Dividend(Rs/unit) Percentage
 28.01.2015 5.2000 52%
 19.03.2010 1.5000 15%
 16.02.2006 19300 19.3%
 34 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO 29.03.2005 2.5000 25%
 18.11.2003 1.0000 10%
 09.09.2003 1.0000 10%
 23.02.2001 0.1000 1%
 23.01.2001 0.1000 1%
 23.12.2000 0.1000 1%
 23.11.2000 0.1000 1%
 23.10.2000 0.1000 1%
 23.09.2000 0.1000 1%
 05.04.199 1.4000 14%
 01.04.1998 0.9000 9%

Thus, there was nothing abnormal if the same mutual fund after a long

gap of more than ten years could declare a dividend of 52%. If the A.O.

has any doubt with regard to rate of dividend so declared by JMF, he

should make direct enquiry from JMF. Moreover, the repeated contention

of the AO of the conspiracy between the assessee and the mutual fund is

further dispelled by the fact that even after the sale of the mutual fund by

the assessee company, the said mutual fund declared yet another third

dividend on 27th July,2015. Had there been a conspiracy why the

assessee company should have lost the dividend and it could have

arranged to claim prior to its sales. On this aspect, detailed submission

was submitted by the assessee before the AO vide letter dated

28.12.2017, in para 9.1 which is as under: 38. Thus, we found that the effective rate of dividend was 18.95% with

respect to NAV of Rs. 27.4423 and not 52% as alleged by the A.O. 39. The A.O. has also alleged that there is attempt by the assesse in

connivance with the companies M/s JM Financial Mutual Funds and M/s

India Infoline Finance to make such conditions happen so that provisions

of section 94(7) cannot be made applicable in its case and short term

capital loss so claimed can be adjusted against the capital gain earned on

sale of immovable property 40. In this regard we observe that the lower authorities have admitted

that the facts of the present case completely falls out of the provisions sec. 94(7) which was specifically introduced by the Legislature, fully

knowing the facts that shares/units are purchased ex-dividend at higher

prices to be sold after declaration of dividend resulting into loss which

could be set off on one hand and dividend is exempt, on the other. Such
 36 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO transactions which are popularly known as dividend stripping

transactions. This legislative intent is fully evident from CBDT Circular

No.14/2001. The relevant extracts (Para 56.2 and 56.3 reproduce) are as

under: 41. It is under this background only, with a view to curb the evasion of

such short-term losses, Sec. 94(7) was inserted by the Finance Act, 2001 w.e.f. 01.04.2002, by providing certain minimum period of holding before

and after the record date of dividend. Those, not fulfilling the conditions,

shall loose the loss to the extent of amount of dividend however, for

those not falling in the clutches of the provision, there is absolutely no

further provision is made to doubt the claim of the short-term capital loss
 37 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO or the high amount of dividend in any manner whatsoever. The CBDT

nowhere terms such transaction as sham or Bogus. Therefore, in this

case, once the authorities below admittedly found, that subjected

transaction completely falls out of the clutches of Sec. 94(7) i.e. the

restrictions placed by the legislature, it is beyond one's comprehension as

to how they still bent upon to deny the claims made by the assessee. An

utter disregard shown by the revenue when the legislature in its wisdom,

being fully aware of the fact that some of the assessees might make use

of the transactions to their benefit and plan their affair, put some

restriction by the prospective amendment by introduction of Section 94(7) w.e.f. 1st April, 2002 but when the case of the assessee do not fall/

suffers from those restrictions, it has to be inferred that the assessee

could not have been denied that benefit as claimed. 42. We further observe that whatever allegations and suspicions raised

by the lower authorities was precisely issue before the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of Walfort Share & Stock Brokers (P) Ltd. (2010) 41

DTR 233 (SC) with respect to earning of dividend claimed by the assessee

as exempt U/s 10(33) of the Act and at the same time the claim of loss

incurred by the assessee on the sale of shares, but rejected by the

revenue. In para 20 of the judgment, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

held as under: After going through the orders of the lower authorities, we found that

exactly similar objections were raised by the revenue authorities before

the Hon'ble Supreme Court and the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as

under: 43. In this reference, we will quote judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in the case of Union of India Vs Azadi Bachao Andolan & Anr. 263

ITR 706 (SC) wherein the Hon'ble Court has held as under: 44. In view of the above Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgment, we found

that the lower authorities have wrongly declined the assessee's legitimate

claim made which supports with all documentary evidences with regard to

claim of benefit as exempt U/s 10(33) of the Act and also claimed a loss

on account of redemption of units of mutual funds. 45. With regard to allegation of the A.O. that making investment

through mutual funds is a colorable device undertaken by the assessee in

connivance with the M/s JM Financial and M/s India Infoline just for

creating loss for set off long term capital gains, we observe that the

mutual fund a popular mode, making of investment through mutual fund

has become popular mode of investments these days. The government is

also promoting the investors to adopt this mode of investment and this
 40 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO probability is increasing day by day. It is further submitted that there are

many investors who are not able to invest directly in the stock markets

due lack of knowledge about the capital markets or due to lack of

sufficient time to track market behaviour in order to take informed

investment decisions. Mutual funds industry has emerged as one of the

best investment channel for such people because they are very cost

efficient and it is very easy to invest in them. A mutual fund is simply a

financial intermediary that allows a group of investors to pool their money

together with a predetermined investment objective. The mutual fund has

a professional fund manager who is responsible for investing the pooled

money into the securities market. These managers have been around the

industry for a long time and have the academic credentials to back it up.

The biggest advantage of mutual funds is diversification. Diversification is

the idea of spreading out money across many different types of

investments. When one investment is down another might be up.

Diversification reduces risk tremendously. There are different kinds of

mutual funds to cater to varied investment objectives such as - Growth

Funds, Income Funds, Balanced Funds, and Liquid Assets Funds, also

known as Money Market Funds. 41 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO 46. So far question of vast experience and expertise of the directors of

the assessee company is concerned, we found that the directors of the

assessee company had vast experience and expertise, therefore, while

exploring the possibility of getting the better and the best result chose to

invest in the JM Financial Mutual Fund. From the record we found that

the assessee company itself has been acting as an investor for last

several years. There apart, the directors and particularly Shri L N Bangur

has been in the field of making investments right since 1966 and

therefore, he is having a vast experience and rather an expertise in this

field. Therefore, it is solely based on his studies, analysis of this field only

that after carrying out an intensive study of all the relevant factors, the

company decided to make investment in the JM Financial Mutual Fund

with an expectation of the best ROI on the investment made by it.

Getting on a return of income on the investment depending upon the

quantum may create a doubt but it cannot be said that the assessee once

made an investment in JM Financial Mutual Fund has not earned the

quantum of the dividend as declared by it. It is only a co-incidence that

the assessee, this year was having LTCG from the sale of building but at

the same time was having loss from the Mutual Fund but that does not

mean that the assessee has made any attempt to evade taxes. 42 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO 47. It is also pertinent to mention here that it is not only the assessee's

company who has invested, there are thousands of other investors who

dealt with the above mutual funds i.e. JM Balanced Fund and have been

doing it for last several years in the past from the subjected assessment

years and even in the later years. It is not the assessee alone, who had

to suffer the loss and earned dividend but this must have happened with

other various investors also. It was quite relevant for the AO to have

known about such investors and whether their concerned AOs have also

expressed similar doubts and rejected the claim or not. But this AO has

conveniently kept a complete silence on this aspect. It appears that no

such dispute has arisen in others cases like the one involved in this case

meaning thereby the department itself has accepted. 48. We also observe that the allegation of the ld. CIT(A) to the effect

that the assessee never made such huge investment in any mutual funds

earlier and it is only in this year when it had capital gains from sale of

immovable property that the entire transaction of investment in mutual

fund was carried out. In this regard we observe that the assessee was

making investment in the Shares & Mutual Funds in the past also. A huge

amount was invested by Assessee Company in A.Y. 2014-15 as under: Fund
Birla Sunlife 2,19,273/- 0/- 4,215/- 2,23,488/- 2,23,685/- 0/-
Sundaram
Asset 0/- 2,16,797/- 0/- 2,16,797/- 1,67,089/- 0/-
Management
Franklin
 10,18,786/- 0/- 20,620/- 10,39,406/- 10,33,899/- 0/-
Templeton
IDFC
Dynamic 0/- 50,00,000/- 0/- 50,00,000/- 50,40,940/- 0/-
Mutual Fund
 TOTAL 3,65,48,311/- 60,16,797/- 6,32,061/- 4,31,97,168/- 4,31,03,931/- 0/-

STATEMENT OF SHARES FOR THE YEAR ENDED AS ON 31.03.2014 (A.Y.
 2014-15)
 Scrip Opening Purchases Dividend Total Sale Closing

Misc Shares 58,340/- 40,92,686/- 0.00 41,51,026/- 3615468/- 586340/-

 Total 58,340/- 40,92,686/- 0.00 41,51,026/- 3615468/- 586340/-

Similarly, in A.Y. 2012-13 & 2013-14 also, the assessee purchased/

invested and sold Shares and Mutual Funds. The Details are as under: STATEMENT OF SHARES FOR THE YEAR ENDED AS ON 31.03.2013 (A.Y.
 2013-14)

 Scrip Opening Purchases Dividend Total Sale Closing

Misc Shares 0/- 40,92,686/- 3,04,369/- 3,04,369/- 2,60,794/- 58,340/-

 Total 0/- 40,92,686/- 3,04,369/- 3,04,369/- 2,60,794/- 58,340/-

Thus, from the perusal of above statements it is evidently clear that the

assessee is regularly investing in the Shares & Mutual Funds. In support

of the same the assessee had filed copies of Accounts of Shares & Mutual

Fund before the lower authorities and also placed in paper book filed

before us. Even the assessments of some of the years were completed

under scrutiny u/s 143(3) (i.e. A.Y.2014-15 & A.Y. 2013-14) yet however,

no similar disallowance had been made in the past. It is, for the first time,

the AO has made this disallowance despite there being no change in the

fact & circumstances of the case. There was no special reason as to why

the AO should have taken a departure from the settled position of law &

facts between the parties. Although the doctrine of res judicata do not

apply in the income tax proceedings yet however, in absence of any

change in the facts & circumstances of the case, the doctrine has been

applied by the Courts. 45 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO 49. In support of the above proposition, reliance may be placed on the

following judicial pronouncement: ( ii) Sardar Kehar Singh v/s CIT (1991) 92 CTR 88/195 ITR 769 (Raj). 50. It is also pertinent to bring on record that there is no loss to the

revenue in so far as the Mutual Fund has already paid Dividend

Distribution Tax on the declaration of such dividend. There apart, the

assessee has also paid STT on these transactions as evident from the

statement of JM Financial Mutual Fund on the subjected transaction

hence there has been no loss to revenue. Interestingly DDT is paid twice

for firstly by investee companies and secondly by JMF to investor. 46 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO 51. We also observe that the assessee's investment in mutual fund was

only 1.38% looking to the total size of fund of Rs. 3604.39 crores,

therefore, to suspect that there was a connivance between the assesse

company and other entities highly imaginary. 52. From the order of the lower authorities, we found that the AO has

failed to bring any contrary evidence on records to disprove the

contentions of the assessee and to falsify the evidences brought on

record and to show the examples of other similarly placed investors if

similar claim made was disallowed/denied. Perusal of the various grounds

based on which, the AO denied the claim of exemption and disallowed the

loss will show that the AO presumed that India Infoline was a concern

like a very close of relative of the assessee firm to whom, the assessee

was in a position to get the thing done in whatever manner it wanted.

Interestingly (as per AO), M/s India Infoline already knew that the

assessee had already sold property resulting into Long Term Capital Gain

(LTCG) against which the assessee would need some Short-Term Capital

Loss to be set off. Similarly, alleged that the assessee and M/s India

Infoline entered into a conspiracy to defraud the revenue. All these

allegations presumptions and assumptions of the A.O. was without

bringing any iota of evidence on record to support the same. 47 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO 53. We found that there is also allegation of the ld. CIT(A) to the effect

that the IIFL was appointed as consultant tor making of investment of

funds so borrowed form IIFL itself. In this regard we observe that there is

nothing more than a suspicion on the face of it in as much as, the ld.

CIT(A) has not at all referred to any material or evidence in the shape of

agreement or appointment letter or any other understanding/MOU

reached between the parties in writing. IIFL never acted as a consultant

for making investment of funds for the assessee. He merely acted as a

financer provided margin money on terms and conditions as per specific

separate agreement. 54. The ld. CIT(A) also alleged that the assessee used the services of

IIFL only for particular transactions also, the assessee otherwise is a

small investor or does not invest large sum in other mutual funds nor has

substantial income from such investment. In this regard we observe that

it was only a presumption of the CIT(A). From the record we found that

the assessee did not use the services of IIFL only for one particular

transaction but in the past as also in the later years including the current

year, the assessee has been using the services of IIFL in one way or

other. The ld. CIT(A) also alleged that the IIFL has already been proved

as indulging in providing bogus capital gains/loss etc. On the basis of all

these facts discussed above it is clear that the huge dividend which is
 48 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO exempt under section 10 was earned by the assessee within a very short

period of time by investing in a mutual fund whose fundamentals, did not

support such a huge dividend. In this regard we observe that this

allegation of the ld. CIT(A) is factually incorrect. There is no iota of

evidence brought by the AO or CIT(A) on record to prove IIFL as

indulging in providing bogus capital gain/losses etc. In any case, at least

in context of the assessee there is no such evidence referred to or

whispered by the authorities below even remotely. Such an allegation is

nothing more than a suspicion. We found that similar allegations were

also raised by the revenue before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case

of Walfort Share (supra) but rejected by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 55. The ld. CIT(A) in the impugned order also alleged that the entire

transaction was a sham it is as neither the result of a coincidence nor of a

genuine investment activity but were created through well planned and

executed scheme in which the company and the brokers worked in

tandem to achieve the predetermined objectives. In this regard we found

that such an allegation is completely contrary to the observation of the

Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Walfort Share (supra), wherein, it was

held as under: The Hon'ble Supreme Court specifically observed that simply because

such transactions are dividend stripping transaction, that by itself cannot

be considered as sham or bogus. In this case also, the transaction though

carried out after the insertion of sec 94(7) but were admittedly out of the

provision hence the ratio laid is squarely applicable on the present case. 56. The ld. CIT(A) also made an allegation that in the instant case even

though prima facie it appears that the assessee received the dividend in

normal course and incurred loss out of redemption of the units of JM

Financial Mutual Fund, in reality it was his own fund which he received

back through some Clandestine deals in the shape of dividend and

claimed it as exempt. In this regard we observe that it is not at all a case
 50 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO of money laundering. At the worst it could be a case of claim of STCL

against the LTCG but not more than that. Otherwise also the CIT(A) has

not proved anything except making suspicion. However, no where the

A.O. has made any such allegation. The ld. CIT(A) also alleged that

further loss incurred on such deals was claimed adjusted against the

long-term capital gain from the sale of immovable property. The detailed

Analysis discussed by us hereinabove firmly establish the events in the

instant case. In this regard we observe that again such an allegation is a

case of Walfort Shares (Supra) have already dealt with by the Hon'ble

Apex Court. 57. From the order of the ld. CIT(A), we observe that while concluding

that these financial transactions were sham ones and this entire edifice

was only a colourable device manufactured for evading due taxes. He

relied on the following judicial pronouncements: 58. We had carefully gone through and deliberated on these judicial

pronouncements and found that these were rendered in altogether
 51 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO different legal and factual context and hence are completely

distinguishable. In the case of Sumati Dayal and Durga Prasad More,

there is no dispute on the proposition laid down. However, they are not at

all applicable on the facts discussed above. The case of Mc. Dowell

specifically dealt with by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of

Walfort Shares (supra). 59. In view of the above discussion and observation well supported by

the documentary evidences placed on record, we do not find any merit in

the disallowance of assessee's genuine claim of loss incurred on

redemption of mutual funds. The A.O. is directed to delete the same and

allow set off such loss against the long-term capital gains so earned. 60. The next grievance of the assessee relates to disallowance of Rs.

14,42,282/- on account of employee benefit expenses. In this regard we

found that during the assessment proceedings the AO noted that the

assessee has debited Rs.15,42,282/- on account of Employee Benefit

however, no business activity has been done by the assessee during the

year under consideration. When asked, the assessee submitted that the

assessee company has already declared business income of Rs.59.91

Lakh in its P&L account. The paper formalities, accounting and banking

transaction etc. was not possible in absence of employees. Further, out of
 52 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO the salary paid of Rs.10 lac, remuneration paid to the extent of Rs.5.40

Lakh related to the directors only. Such expenditure thus having been

incurred exclusively for business purposes, was fully allowable. However,

disagreed with the submission of the assessee, the AO concluded that the

assessee has failed to substantiate to have done any business on which

such expenses claimed. Thus, he disallowed Rs.15,42,282/- on account of

Employee Benefit Expenses. 61. By the impugned order, the ld. CIT(A) given relief of Rs. 1.00 lac

and restricted the disallowance to the extent of Rs. 14,42,282/-. 62. We have considered the rival contentions and carefully gone

through the orders of the authorities below and found from the record

that as per material placed on record, it is wrong to say that the assessee

was not engaged any business in as much as the assessee has already

declared business income of Rs.59.91 Lakh. This was the income

generated in connection with various mutual funds (other than the

mutual funds purchased through JM Financial Ltd.). There apart, the

assessee company has declared huge interest income of Rs.21.06 lac (PB 229) from several debtors to whom interest bearing loans were advanced

and interest on FDR of Rs.7.74 lac totaling to Rs.28,80,856/- was also

declared. To carry out the activities at such a large scale, one certainly
 53 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO needs some persons to manage the show. The observation of the paper

formalities, accounting and banking transaction and receiving/delivery of

the papers/documents, consultation with counsel and other government

agencies/investment advisors, was not possible in absence of employees.

Otherwise also, out of the salary paid of Rs.10 lac, remuneration paid to

the extent of Rs.5.47 lac related to the directors only. Such expenditure

thus having been incurred exclusively for business purposes was fully

allowable. It is not the case of the A.O. that any personal element was

involved in these expenses. We also found that the same A.O. was also

assessing these incomes as business income only. Moreover, the

borrowed funds having been utilized wholly and exclusively for business

purposes and the AO not having pointed out any personal user or

diversion for non-business purposes, the subjected interest was fully

allowable u/s 36(1)(iii) of the Act. 63. From perusal of note No. 8 annexed to the audited A&L account,

we found that the head Employee Benefit Expenses consisted of Salary to

staff of Rs. 4,92,000/-, Directors Remuneration including Meeting Fees of

Rs.5,47,000/-, Staff Welfare Expenses of Rs.3,282/- and Gratuity & Bonus

of Rs.5,00,000/- totaling to Rs.15,42,282/- as against Rs.3,78,621/-

claimed in the preceding year. The claim this year of course is on a higher

side yet however, there are sufficient and justifiable reasons behind such
 54 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO an increase. The assessee has income of Rs.59,02,21,502/- this year, as

above, as against Rs.11,29,188/- last year. Pertinently, this is a very old

company of 1949 and a few employees are very-very old therefore,

payment to them is certainly in the larger interest of the business. 64. Looking to the nature of expenses, we found that there is a long

list of 9-10 borrowers. Every time, the employees have to give the cheque

of loan amount and to collect the same back in case of refund after the

expiry period. Again, in every 2 months, the employee has to go to collect

the cheque from all of them. Similarly, the assessee company is holding

equity shares of around 15 companies as per list and the dividend

warrant of those companies are being deposited physically. The assessee

company has not yet entered into e-banking system and all banking work

has been done manually only. Collection of the cheque of lease rent, the

repair of the property, the selection of the property to be purchased,

management and maintenance of the property purchased and given on

lease are all the jobs requiring a substantial man power and hence it

cannot be presumed that the director alone or with 1 or 2 employees

would be able to discharge such jobs. The huge quantum of the related

income goes to strongly suggest the strenuous and repetitive efforts must

have been made by the assessee company to earn such income. 55 ITA 567/JP/2019_
 M/s Agencies Rajasthan Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO 65. In this regard, reliance is placed by the ld AR on the decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of JK Woolen Manufacturers 72 ITR

612 (SC), Hon'ble Karnataka High Court decision in the case of T.T. Pvt.

Ltd. v/s ITO (1980) 121 ITR 551 (Kar), Hon'ble M.P. High Court decision

in the case of CIT v/s Udhoji Shrikrishnadas (1983) 139 ITR 827 (MP) in

support of the proposition that the decision taken by a business man out

of commercial expediency, it was an expenditure incurred by the assessee

solely and exclusively for the purpose of business. It was also contended

by the ld AR that no disallowance for such expenses made in the A.Y.

2014-15 while finalizing the scrutiny assessment U/s 143(3) of the Act.

Keeping in view the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case vis

a vis observation of the A.O., we restrict the disallowance to the extent of

10% of the expenditure so incurred amounting to Rs. 15,42,282/-.

Accordingly, the A.O. is directed to restrict this disallowance to Rs.

1,54,228/-. 66. The A.O. has also disallowed Rs. 8,13,000/- on account of other

expenses. By the impugned order, the ld. CIT(A) allowed expenses up to

Rs.50,000/-. 67. We have considered the rival contentions and found that following

expenditure was incurred by the assessee during the year: Accordingly, we do not find any justification for the disallowance so

made. 70. In the result, appeal of the assessee is allowed in part in terms

indicated hereinabove. Order pronounced in the open court on 01st July, 2019. vkns'k dh izfrfyfi vxzsf'kr@Copy of the order forwarded to: