Ms. Kiran Sibal, Member

Present:- appellant/Opposite party against order dated 18.09.2024 passed by

District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Bathinda (in

short, "the District Commission"), whereby the complaint filed by

respondent/complainant against opposite party (in short 'OP') was

partly allowed while granting the following relief:- First Appeal No.116 of 2025 2 2. It would be apposite to mention that hereinafter the

parties will be referred, as have been arrayed before the District

Commission. 3. Brief facts, as averred in the complaint, are that the

complainant and her father were having a joint saving account

bearing No.01350100009918 with the OP-Bank and there was

sufficient balance in the said account. On 04.02.2023 at about 6:24

PM an amount of Rs.2 lakh was fraudulently got transferred from the

said account without any authorization from the complainant and her

father and even they neither shared any OTP nor called for any

OTP. Thereafter, the complainant immediately made telephonic call

to Toll Free number of OP and requested to freeze and block the

said saving account. The complainant also reported the matter to

cyber crime as well as to the OP for doing necessary action to save

the fraudulent transfer of entries made without any authorization by

the complainant. The complainant also send emails to OP on the

same day but no action whatsoever was taken by it to stop the fraud

or to block the entry, rather after much persuasion only an amount of

Rs.10,000/- was got frozen by the OP Bank. The OP was not having First Appeal No.116 of 2025 3 any proper system to avoid the online fraud, although the

complainant notified the fraud immediately i.e. within few minutes of

detection of fraud but nothing was done by it to save the hard earned

money of the complainant. As per the guidelines of RBI, OP is liable

for unauthorized transaction but it failed to refund the said amount.

Alleging deficiency in service on the part of OP, the complainant filed

consumer complaint before the District Commission and sought

directions against the OP to refund an amount of Rs.2,00,000/-

illegally deducted from the account of the complainant and further to

pay Rs.50,000/- as compensation on account of metal tension,

agony and harassment; besides, Rs.25,000/- as cost of litigation. 4. In reply to complaint OP stated that as per written

complaint submitted to the Bank dated 06.02.2023, the complainant

relied upon customer care numbers from search engines and did not

use contact information from the official website to reach customer

care. Further, she clicked the unknown link and dialed

No.09692901502 given by search engine and followed the

instruction given by the message of the above noted mobile number

and again clicked the second unknown link. The complainant was

totally in the control of the scammer by following his instructions.

Then she again clicked another unknown link sent by the unknown

mobile Nos.9004776782, 8250137207 and acted on the message

sent by those unknown mobiles and made payment of Rs.3/- & 2/-

through two UPI transactions on 03.02.2023 from her bank account.

By doing so, she herself violated the guidelines of RBI and OP Bank, First Appeal No.116 of 2025 4 which say that a) do not click the unknown link, b) do not make any

payment through UPI from your Bank account to an unknown

number/person. The complainant herself verified the account of the

scammer and gave him access to her bank account. The OP further

stated that the scammer had full one day to hijack complete data,

bank account details and fraudulently withdraw the amount from her

account on 04.02.2023, after office hours. The complainant should

have been alert & apprehensive enough to prevent any fraudulent

withdrawals from her account, after transfer of amount from her

account to an unknown number. She should have blocked UPI

transactions from her account to him immediately as there was no

further transaction to be made with him till after the service of the

burner. The complainant had herself facilitated/approved the alleged

fraudulent withdrawal from her account, for which the OP is not at all

liable or responsible in any way. The OP took all necessary steps to

check further loss to complainant's account. The complainant should

have immediately blocked further UPI transaction from her account

but she neglected to do so and she reacted only after all the

fraudulent transaction had been completed. There was no deficiency

in service on the part of the OP. After denying the other averments

made in the complaint, OP prayed for dismissal of the complaint. 5. The parties led evidence before the District Commission

in support of their respective contentions and the District

Commission after going through the record and hearing learned First Appeal No.116 of 2025 5 counsel for the parties, partly accepted the complaint against OP,

vide impugned order as above. Aggrieved with the same this appeal

has been filed by the appellant/OP. 6. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and have

gone through the written arguments submitted by them as well as

record of the case. 7. The learned counsel for the appellant/OP has

vehemently contended that the District Commission has failed to

appreciate that the alleged illegal and fraudulent transactions were

made possible only due to sole negligence on the part of

respondent/complainant, which is duly reflected in the complaint filed

by her before the bank authorities. The respondent/complainant had

unauthorizedly shared its credentials with the third person and now

to get back the money, she tried to shift the burden of her negligence

upon the appellant/bank. The District Commission has further

ignored that the respondent/complainant had clearly acted in utter

violation of rules and guidelines issued by the appellant bank and

RBI in respect of the usage of online banking facility. The District

Commission has failed to consider that Reserve Bank of India in its

guidelines had specifically instructed that "A customer shall be liable

for the loss occurring due to unauthorized transactions in cases

where the loss is due to negligence by a customer, such as where

he has shared the payment credentials, the customer will bear the

entire loss until he reports the unauthorized transaction to the Bank." First Appeal No.116 of 2025 6 The learned counsel further argued on the similar lines as state in

the written reply and prayed for acceptance of the present appeal. 8. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the

respondent/complainant has argued that the District Commission

after appreciating the evidence and pleadings raised by the parties

has rightly accepted the complaint filed by the complainant before it.

There is no perversity and illegality in the impugned order. The

learned counsel has further argued that it was the appellant/Bank,

who had made the mode of online payments available to the

complainant as well as the online transaction facility and the Bank

repeatedly has been promoting the same. There is nothing on record

to show that the Bank ever specifically asked the complainant to do

or not to do certain activities. Moreover, the Bank did not act

promptly and swiftly or it lacked proper system and facilities, as it is

only on 07.02.2023 that the Bank was able to freeze an amount of

Rs.10,000/-. The learned counsel further argued that the

appellant/Bank had not complied with the guidelines of RBI, as it

failed to conduct proper inquiry in the matter, despite it being a

specific case of the complainant that she did not receive any OTP

nor shared the same qua these transactions. The learned counsel

further argued on the similar lines as stated in the complaint and

prayed for dismissal of the present appeal. 9. We have given thoughtful consideration to the

contentions raised by the learned counsel for the parties. First Appeal No.116 of 2025 7 10. The admitted facts of the case are that the

respondent/complainant is having a saving bank account bearing

No.01350100009918 with the appellant/OP- Bank. It is also not in

dispute that on 04.02.2023, a total amount of Rs.2,00,000/- was

deducted from the said saving bank account of the

respondent/complainant, vide nine UPI transactions. The

respondent/complainant alleged that the said amount was

fraudulently got transferred from her saving bank account without

any authorization or sharing any OTP. The complainant further

alleged that as per RBI guidelines, the appellant/OP bank is liable for

unauthorized transactions, but it failed to refund the said amount.

Alleging deficiency in service on the part of appellant/OP the

respondent/complainant filed consumer complaint before the District

Commission, which was partly allowed, vide impugned order as

above. Aggrieved with the same present appeal has been preferred

by the appellant/OP. 11. The grievance of the appellant is that the District

Commission has failed to appreciate that the alleged illegal and

fraudulent transactions were made possible only due to sole

negligence on the part of respondent/complainant, which is duly

reflected in the complaint filed by her before the bank authorities.

The respondent/complainant had clearly acted in utter violation of

rules and guidelines issued by the appellant bank and RBI in respect

of the usage of online banking facility, as such, appellant cannot be

held liable for the negligence on the part of the First Appeal No.116 of 2025 8 respondent/complainant. On the other hand, the case of

respondent/complainant is that the Bank did not act promptly and

swiftly or it lacked proper safety system. Moreover, the appellant-

bank had not complied with the guidelines of RBI, despite it being a

specific case of the respondent/complainant that she did not receive

any OTP nor shared the same qua alleged transactions. To

determine the said controversy between the parties, we have

perused the pleadings of the parties, evidence on record as well as

the impugned order passed by the District Commission. 12. The only question arising for adjudication before us is

whether there is any fault/negligence on the part of the appellant for

the UPI transactions of the said withdrawal amount from the saving

bank account of complainant or not? The appellant/OP relied upon

the written complaint filed by the respondent/complainant before it

i.e. Ex.OP-1 and the relevant portion of the said complaint is

reproduced as under:- From the bare perusal of the above said pleadings in the complaint,

it has been duly established that the respondent/complainant clicked

on the links sent from some unknown mobile numbers to download

the application and paid an amount of Rs.3/- & Rs.2/- by using the

UPI Application. She knowingly or unknowingly had fallen a victim to

the scam done by the fraudsters. It was only after the

respondent/complainant clicked on the link and acted upon the

instructions given by the unknown person, that the money got

deducted from her saving account. Had the complainant been

prudent and wise, she would have not clicked on the link without

verifying the credentials of the person, who has misrepresented

himself as being a member of customer care service of Prestige

company. The OP has specifically stated in its written reply that

complainant had wrongly relied upon customer care numbers from

search engine, whereas she should have used contact information

from the official website to reach customer care. The fact that the

complainant clicked the unknown link and dialed No.09692901502

given by search engine and thereafter having followed the instruction

given, she again clicked the second unknown link, which is admitted

as per Ex.OP-1. It is pertinent to mention here that nowadays, banks First Appeal No.116 of 2025 10 in India have been incessantly warning people against scamsters,

urging customers to never share their banking details, ATM pin

details, credit card numbers etc. The appellant has duly placed on

record such warnings issued by it i.e. Ex. OP-2 to OP-5. Despite

these warnings, if customers still fail to adhere to the basic

precautionary norms and fall prey to fraudulent schemes or activities,

they will not be able to hold the banks responsible for it. The

pleading of the respondent/complainant is that she never disclosed

the UPI pin or OTP etc to anybody, but she herself stated that she

clicked the link sent on her phone by a person posing as a member

of Customer Care service of Prestige Company. Hence, we are of

the considered view that the respondent/complainant was duped

because of her own negligence and there is no fault or negligence

on the part of the appellant. 13. The District Commission has allowed the complaint,

while relying on clause 6(a) of the Circular DBR.No.Leg.BC.

78/09.07.005/2017-18 dated 06.07.2017 issued by the Reserve

Bank of India regarding limiting liability of Customers in Unauthorized

Electric Banking Transactions. The relevant part of the said circular

is reproduced as under:- 4 - continuation sheet part of the customer in
 notifying the bank of such a transaction, the per
 transaction liability of the customer shall be limited
 to the transaction value or the amount mentioned in
 Table 1, whichever is lower." Since, the respondent/complainant was duped because of her own

negligence, as discussed above, therefore only Clause 7(i) of the

above said circular is applicable that "in cases where the loss is

due to negligence by a customer, such as where he has shared

the payment credentials, the customer will bear the entire loss

until he reports the unauthorised transaction to the bank". The

District Commission has overlooked the above said clause 7(i) of the

Circular and wrongly allowed the complaint against the appellant.

Hence, as per clause 7(i), the liability is of the First Appeal No.116 of 2025 12 respondent/complainant and she shall bear the entire loss as she

shared the payment credentials and there is negligence on her own

part. The bank's liability would only arise if any loss occurred after

the reporting of the unauthorized transaction, which is not the case

of the complainant in the present matter. The District Commission

has overlooked the said aspect and wrongly allowed the complaint

filed by the respondent/complainant. As such, the impugned order

passed by the District Commission is liable to be set aside. 14. Sequel to our above discussion, we allow the appeal of

the appellant and the impugned order of the District Commission is

hereby set aside. Resultantly the complaint filed by the Complainant

stands dismissed. 15. The appellant had deposited a sum of Rs.1,23,150/- at

the time of filing of the appeal. This amount alongwith interest, which

has accrued thereon, if any, shall be remitted by the registry to the

appellant/OP by way of crossed cheque/demand draft after the

expiry of limitation period in accordance with law. 16. The appeal could not be decided within the stipulated

period due to heavy pendency of Court cases. (H.P.S. MAHAL)
 PRESIDING JUDICIAL MEMBER

 (KIRAN SIBAL)
 MEMBER

March 2, 2026
(Dv)