1. These two bail applications have been moved by accused/applicants
Mohd. Irfan alias Rajji and Irfan Ali, who are co-accused in FIR No.
30/2021 registered at PS Hauz Qazi under Section 420 / 406 / 120B IPC and Section 4 / 20 / 21 / 25 of Indian Telegraph Act and Section 65 of Information
Technology Act. 1.1 Notice was issued. The State has filed Status Report. Nominal Rolls
of the accused/applicants have been also called from the jail. 2. The factual matrix of the present case is given in the Status Report. A
complaint was received in PS Hauz Qazi on 05.02.2021 from Government BAIL APPL. 1243/2022 & conn. Page 1 of 8 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/003838

officials that one illegal international telecom exchange, setup in Chawri
Bazar, Delhi has been found, which is using the advance technology for
routing international calls of foreign countries like US, UAE, Canada,
Nepal, Australia and many more to India via internet and in this way,
bypassing the international and national call gateways of India. This
exchange can handle 2500 international calls simultaneously and is causing
loss of about Rs.1.20 crore per day to the Government and telecom
companies. This exchange could handle 3 lac international calls per day.
2.1 These calls are then routed towards Indian telecom/mobile numbers
through heavy servers and software tools. The setup was fully automatic.
Since this call route was internet based, so it is difficult for Indian Law
Enforcement Agencies to monitor and back trace the foreign callers, so it is
posing a grave threat to national security. 2.2 Raid was conducted where two SIP servers of IBM and HP along with
other paraphernalia were recovered. The present FIR was registered and
investigation was transferred to District Cyber Cell, Central. One accused,
Imran Khan was arrested on 06.02.2021, who disclosed that his maternal
uncle, namely Zulifiqar Ali asked him to arrange a room where connection
of JIO will be installed. His elder brother, Yousuf handed over the room to
Zulifiqar Ali, who started working from there. He shared his ID with
Zulifiqar Ali as he needed fast internet connection of Airtel.
2.3 The said Zulifiqar Ali paid Imran Khan Rs.5,000/- for using his ID
and assured him to pay more in future. Imran Khan further disclosed that
Zulifiqar Ali installed two machines and started dealing in international
calls. Statement of the person, who installed the internet connection, namely,
Kamal Kishore was recorded. This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/003838

2.4 One Ganga Singh was also examined, who had also installed internet
connection at the instance of Zulifiqar Ali. 2.5 One Harish Kumar also stated that he had installed high-speed
internet connection on the order placed by Zulifiqar Ali.
2.6 One Usman Miyan S/o Tarik was examined, who was introduced to
Zulifiqar Ali by one Irfan and he had installed SIP Trunk after collecting the
necessary documents from M/S Adeeba Enterprises, a firm of Zulifiqar Ali.
The use of the said SIP Trunk for making international calls was forbidden.
Persons, who had received international calls, were examined and their
statements were recorded. 2.7 On further inquiry, the Government officials gave details of the losses
caused by installation of the illegal international telecom exchange by the
culprits and the total loss was estimated to be around Rs.103.45 crores.
Efforts were made to find out the source of the seized case property. The
IBM and SIP server was initially sold to Vodafone India Ltd. Subsequently,
they were further sold to another person and lastly to Montu Mandal, who
sold the same to one Raju Khan alias Mohd. Irfan alias Rajji for
Rs.58,000/- each. Mohd. Irfan was arrested on 29.09.2021. He is the
petitioner in bail application No.2059/2022. 2.8 Applicant Mohd. Irfan disclosed that he was in collusion with one
Abdul Murtza, an NRI of Kwait and they had set up the illegal SIP server to
earn profit and he also got involved other known persons, namely, Irfan Ali
(petitioner in bail application No. 143/2022), Zulifiqar Ali, Areeb and
Mohd. Rehan. He had purchased the SIP server for running illegal telephone
exchange and the money was arranged through Hawala Traders on the
direction of one Mohd. Murtaza, who was also residing in Kwait. He had BAIL APPL. 1243/2022 & conn. Page 3 of 8 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/003838

received Rs.90 lacs through Hawala, out of which he had paid Rs.45 lacs to
his associate, Irfan Ali. 2.9 Accused Zulifiqar Ali was arrested on 29.09.2021 and during
interrogation, he disclosed that about one year ago, his brother Irfan Ali had
induced him to setup an illegal telephone exchange in his name, which will
produce daily income in lacs. He took two high-speed wifi connections in
his name, one connection in the name of his nephew Imran Khan and two
connections in the name of his son, namely, Areeb at the instance of
Zulifiqar Ali. 2.10 Petitioner Irfan Ali was arrested and interrogated. He disclosed that he
was induced by Mohd. Irfan alias Rajji to setup an illegal telephone
exchange, which will give daily income running into lacs. Further, he also
got involved his brother Zulifiqar Ali in the said activity. He used the ID of
his brother Zulifiqar Ali to get installed the telephone exchange. He received
Rs.45 lacs from Mohd. Irfan for this illegal activity. An HP server was
recovered from his home at his instance. 2.11 Irfan had introduced Usman Miyan to Zulifiqar Ali, who purchased
the high-speed internet connection from him. Accused Areeb Ali was
arrested on 30.09.2021 and interrogated. He stated that his financial
condition was not good. Meanwhile, his uncle Irfan induced his father to
setup the said illegal connection in his name for SIP Trunk Services. The
payment was made from the bank account of one Rehan and the said money
was arranged through Hawala transactions. These accused were arrested.
2.12 After completion of investigation, charge sheet under Section
420 / 120B / 406 IPC, Section 20 / 21 / 25 Telegraph Act and Section 65 of the IT
Act was filed in Court. Accused/applicant Irfan Ali was also involved BAIL APPL. 1243/2022 & conn. Page 4 of 8 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/003838

previously in case FIR No. 13/2014 under Section 420 / 406 / 120B / 174A IPC,
PS Chandni Mahal, Delhi. 3. On behalf of the petitioner, Irfan Ali, in bail application
No.1243/2022, it has been submitted that he is a respectable and peace
loving citizen of India; he has been mechanically roped in the subject FIR
just because his brother was also involved in the crime. He has no role to
play in commission of the alleged crime and the only allegation against him
is that he had introduced/recommended the main accused Zulifiqar Ali to a
JIO sales executive named Usman Miyan. He has not obtained any
telephone internet connection in his name and he has not worked on any
device, server or telephone connection. There is not even one single
document which can be relied upon by prosecution for lodging an FIR
against him. 3.1 It is further submitted that he was arrested in the present case on the
basis of verbal statement of the co-accused after seven months of lodging of
the FIR. Only one day's police custody remand was sought. The regular bail
application of the petitioner Irfan Ali was rejected by the learned ASJ
without describing any specific role/loss to the petitioner herein.
3.2 The investigation is over. Supplementary charge sheet has been filed.
3.3 Not even a single penny of any illegal earnings has been attributed to
the petitioner herein. He is in custody since 01.10.2021. He is not keeping
good health. The petitioner is not a criminal or a habitual offender. Most of
the offences are triable by Magistrate. He is the only bread earner of the
family. 3.4 The grounds for bail have been stated that he is in judicial custody
since 01.10.2021; the learned ASJ has not applied his mind while dismissing BAIL APPL. 1243/2022 & conn. Page 5 of 8 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/003838

his bail application; bail application has been dismissed without giving any
reasons; no mens rea has been attributed to the petitioner herein; the case of
the police is highly improvable by its nature; the SIP servers were obtained
by his brother, Mr. Zulifiqar Ali and not by the petitioner; the servers were
sold as a junk material; all the co-accused have been already arrested; no
recovery is to be affected now; the petitioner is a permanent resident of
Delhi and the trial of accused will take a long time. Under these
circumstances, it has been prayed that the present applicant be released on
regular bail. 4. As far as accused Mohd. Irfan alias Rajji, who is the petitioner in bail
application No. 2059/2022, is concerned, his date of arrest is 28.09.2021.
His bail application was dismissed on 25.06.2022. It was argued before the
learned ASJ that there is no receipt on record pertaining to alleged purchase
of servers from Montu Mandal and the applicant is not well educated to
operate such a sophisticated server and there is no evidence on record
regarding assessment of loss of revenue to the extent of Rs.1.20 crore per
day and the said bail application was dismissed keeping in view the fact that
earlier bail application of the applicant was dismissed on 07.02.2022. On the
similar grounds and giving the same narrative as in the bail application of
the co-accused, petitioner Mohd. Irfan has also prayed for bail. 5. Notices were issued. Status Report has been filed. Arguments heard. 6. It has been argued on behalf of the petitioners that they have been
falsely implicated. There is nothing on record to connect them with the
alleged offences. The calculation of causing loss of Rs.1.2 crores per day to
the public exchequer is an imaginary figure. The so-called IBM and HP
high-machines were basically junk machines which were not in working BAIL APPL. 1243/2022 & conn. Page 6 of 8 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/003838

conditions and the petitioners have no role to play in the entire crime setup
and they have been mechanically roped in the present case. 7. On behalf of the prosecution, it has been argued that the petitioners,
along with other persons had entered into a conspiracy and all of them had
played active role in establishing an illegal international telephone exchange
and they caused huge losses to the Government as well as to telecom
companies running into crores of rupees. An estimate in this regard filed on
record as part of the Status Report which quantifies the said loss at
Rs.103.45 crores. This calculation has been challenged by the present
petitioners as being an imaginary figure. Both the parties will get an
opportunity to approve/disapprove the said estimate while evidence is led in
the Court. 8. In this case, Hawala transactions of Rs.90.00 lacs are also involved.
Out of the said amount, a sum of Rs. 45 lacs was allegedly given by
accused/applicant Mohd. Irfan alias Rajji to Irfan Ali. Moreover, at the
instance of Mohd. Irfan alias Rajji, a server machine work station of IBM
make, one mobile phone Lenovo Tab V 7 along with two SIMs, one laptop
of Dell, used for running the scam were recovered and one black coloured
Samsung mobile phone which was purchased by the petitioner/accused from
the cheated amount was also recovered. 8.1 It is further mentioned in the Status Report that it was Irfan alias Rajji
who had purchased 4 IBM servers and one HP server from Montu Mandal
for Rs.2,90,000/-. Statement of Montu Mandal recorded under 161 Cr.P.C .
has been also annexed, stating therein that Mohd. Irfan alias Rajji gave his
name as Raj and had purchased 4 IBM and one HP server at the rate of
Rs.58,000/- per piece from him. He had identified the present BAIL APPL. 1243/2022 & conn. Page 7 of 8 This is a digitally signed Judgement. NEUTRAL CITATION NO: 2022/DHC/003838

applicant/accused. 9. In my view, the junk machines cannot be used to run an international
telephone exchange, which bypasses the official international trunk lines.
The danger to the security of the nation is another important factor because
if anti-social elements make international calls by using this setup, there is
no way for the Law Enforcement Agencies to trace the said callers and take
appropriate action against them. 10. The Charge Sheet stands filed but the case is at the initial stage.
Important witnesses are yet to be examined and the possibility of influencing
the said witnesses and/or tampering of evidence at this stage is not ruled out. 11. Keeping in view the magnitude of the crime alleged against the
present petitioners and the co-accused persons, their specific roles as pointed
out in the Status Report and the possibility of tampering with the evidence at
this stage being not ruled out, I am not inclined to grant them bail at this
stage. Both the bail applications being nos.1243/2022 and 2059/2022 are
hereby dismissed. 12. However, it is made clear that nothing stated herein above shall affect
the merits of the case being tried before the learned Trial Court, which will
be decided by the learned Trial Court on its own merits on the basis of the
evidence produced by both the State as well as by the accused persons
before the said Court. 13. Copy of this order be sent to the concerned Court. TALWANT SINGH, J
SEPTEMBER 15, 2022/pa
 Click here to check corrigendum, if any BAIL APPL. 1243/2022 & conn. Page 8 of 8 This is a digitally signed Judgement.