These are cross appeals filed by the assessee and Revenue against
the order of the CIT(A)-4, Mumbai dated 27.11.2012 for A.Y. 2005-06 in
the matter of order passed under Section 143(3) of the Income Tax Act,
1961 (hereinafter "the Act"). 2. At the outset the learned A.R. placed on record order of Tribunal in
assessee's own case wherein most of the grounds are covered either in
favour or against the assessee. The learned A.R. also placed on record a 2 ITA Nos. 1013&1153/Mum/2013 Bank of India

chart indicating that the issues are covered either in favour or against the
assessee. 3. We have heard the rival contentions and carefully gone through the
orders of the authorities below as well as the order of the Tribunal in
assessee's own case. The first grievance in assessee's appeal relates to
disallowance under Section 14A of the Act. The first grievance of Revenue
is also relates to the action of the CIT(A) for reducing the disallowance
made under Section 14A of the Act. We found that the issue is covered by
the decision of the Tribunal in assessee's own case for A.Y. 2004-05 in ITA
No. 5977/Mum/2011 dated 26.07.2017 as well the order of the Tribunal
for A.Y. 2007-08 in ITA No. 2966/Mum/2014 dated 13.07.2016 wherein
the Tribunal held as under: - 21, Briefly stated facts are that the assessee has following exempt
 income, which reads as under: - The AO estimated adhoc amount of expense towards this exempt
income at Rs. 56,15,05,000/-. 22. At the outset, the learned Counsel for the assessee stated that
exactly identical issue in AY 2001-02 was decided partly in favour of
assessee in ITA No. 1498/Mum/2011 order dated 09-04-2014
wherein, disallowed was restricted at 1% of the exempt income. The
learned Counsel for the assessee also drew our attention to Para 4.4.
and 4.5 of the Tribunal's order in assessee's own case which reads
as under: - Accordingly, the ground raised by the revenue as well as the 4 ITA Nos. 1013&1153/Mum/2013 Bank of India

 assessee in the respective appeal and cross objection are liable to be
 dismissed. 4.5 Accordingly, we are of the considered view that 1% of the exempt
 income will be a reasonable disallowance on account of
 administrative expenses u/s 14A ." 23. In view of the above the learned Counsel for the assessee
 requested for restricting the disallowance at 1% of the exempted
 income. The learned DR has not objected to the same. 24. After hearing both the sides and going through the facts of the
 case, we direct the AO to restrict the disallowance on exempt income
 at 1% and this issue of assessee's appeal is partly allowed." 4. As the facts and circumstances during the year under consideration
are same, respectfully following the order above we direct the AO to restrict
the disallowance on exempt income at 1%. We direct accordingly. 5. In the result, ground taken by the assessee is allowed in part
whereas the ground taken by Revenue is dismissed. 6. Next grievance of the assessee relates to disallowance of payment
made to liquidator of BCCI. This issue is also covered by the order of the
Tribunal in assessee's own case for A.Y. 2004-05 in ITA No.
5977/Mum/2011 wherein the Tribunal observed as under: - 7. Briefly stated facts are that the AO disallowed the payment
made to liquidator's Bank of Credit and Commerce International SA
and Bank of Credit and Consumers International (overseas Ltd.)
amounting to Rs. 364,64,32,957/- and also legal charges paid for
defending suit filed by the liquidators of BCCI amounting to Rs.
17,19,52,641/-. The assessee made certain advances at its London
and Cayman Island Branch to certain customers of BCCI and
subsequently, BCCI went into liquidation in 1991 and these advances
were made on the guarantee of BCCI as claimed by the assessee. The
liquidators claimed compensation from certain banks including the
assessee bank holding that BCCI was involved in a fraud and the
other banks including assessee's bank connived with BCCI in this
fraudulent agenda for the reason that the assessee bank made these
advances to certain customers identified by BCCI, which has resulted
in a false hope about BCCI and its financial position and results.
Aggrieved, assessee preferred the appeal before CIT(A), who
confirmed the action of the AO vide para 15 to 18 as under: - Whereas the assessee has claimed that the more beneficial provisions
between DTAA and I.T. Act will apply to the assessee. The ground is
academic only because the claim has already been rejected as
relating to a fraud but in any case treatment of loss of a foreign
branch has to be given as per section 90 read with DTAA and
notification No.91/2008 dated 28/812008. 18. The assessee has made an alternative claim vide Ground No. 3(c)
that in case the claim for loss on account of payment to BCCI is not
allowable then it will result in having net profit in London branch
which assessee has claimed to be excludable from the income of the
assessee assessable in India. In such a situation if assessee has
paid taxes abroad in London then the-relief is allowed as per section 90. In this regard a separate decision has been given against Gr6und
No. 11 where the income of foreign branches where DTAA is
applicable and assessee is having a permanent establishment, the
assessee is allowed in terms of section 90 and notification
No.91/2008 dated 28/8/2008. Accordingly, the A.O. is directed
against Ground No 3(c) also to follow the decision against Ground No.
11(a) for allowing relief to the assessee against the income taxed in
London/Britain. In the result the ground of appeal is treated as partly
allowed. Aggrieved, now assessee is in second appeal before us. 7. We have heard the rival contentions and gone through the facts
and circumstances of the case. Before us, the learned Counsel for the
assessee argued that the disallowance of payments made to
liquidators of Bank of Credit and Commerce International SA and
Bank of Credit and Commerce International (Overseas) Ltd - Rs. Bank of India

364,64,82,9571- and law charges paid by the assessee for defending
the suit filed by the liquidators of BCCI-Rs. 17,19, 52,641/- are
legitimate business expenses. He explained that the AO had
disallowed the above loss on the ground that the loss pertained to
London branch and any loss of London branch cannot be allowed as
deduction since the assessee had claimed the income from foreign
branches as "exclusion" from total income and therefore the loss
sustained by a foreign branch cannot be allowed as deduction. He
argued that as per the provisions of section 90(2) of the Act, the
provisions of the Indian Income Tax Act shall apply to the extent they
are more beneficial to the assessee and in respect of London branch
where there was a loss, the income should be taxed in accordance
with the normal provisions of the Act. Hence the above loss should be
reduced in computing the total income. He further explained that the
AO disallowed the above sum on the ground that it does not relate to
the current assessment year since the transactions took place during
financial years 1981 to 1986. He submitted that the liability to pay
has crystallized arose and became payable only in the current year
based on the orders of High Court of Justice, Chancery Division,
Companies Court, UK dated 19/03/2004 and 26/03/2004 and
therefore cannot be disallowed for the current assessment year. He
placed reliance on the decisions in support of its contention of Hon'ble
Gujarat High Court in the case of Saurashtra Cement and Chemical
Industries Ltd Vs CIT 213 ITR 177 523 (Guj) and ITAT Mumbai
Tribunal in the case of Toyo Engineering India Limited Vs JCIT 100
TTJ 373 (ITAT Mum). 8. He further argued that another reason given by the AO for
disallowance of the above amount is that it is expenses incurred for
fraud and not a normal business expenses. He explained that
assessee is engaged in the business of the banking and as per the Banking Regulation Act , one of the main objects of a banking
company is to accept deposits from various depositors and lend
money to various borrowers. He cited Section 6(1) ('a) of Banking
Regulation Act , which states as under: In respect to this he argued that in pursuance of the above objects the
assessee in the ordinary course of carrying on its main business
accepted deposits from Bank of Credit and Commerce International
SA BCCI and advanced loans to various borrowers as introduced by
BCCI in its London Branch. Further the repayments of the loans
introduced by BCCI were also guarantee by BCCI. In the banking
business, both acceptance of deposits and lending require proper
introduction from the persons acceptable to the bank in order to
ensure that the deposits and advances represent genuine business 8 ITA Nos. 1013&1153/Mum/2013 Bank of India

transactions. This is insisted by the various regulators in respective
countries to ensure that the banks engage in genuine business
transactions and dealings and to prevent fraudulent or bogus
transactions. The London branch of the assessee has duly followed
the above guidelines and the transactions were entered into with
BCCI for a very long time much before the transactions under present
appeal which took place from 1981 to 1986. The deposits of BCCI
accepted by London Branch were duly repaid by the assessee on the
due dates and the loans granted to parties introduced were also
recovered in full by the London Branch. In view of these facts
mentioned above, he stated that it is clear beyond doubt that
assessee had carried on its normal banking business permitted by section 6(1)(a) of Banking Regulation Act and the said transactions
have not resulted in any loss or damage. However out of the above
transactions, one of the parties to whose transactions viz. BCCI have
acted in a manner which resulted in the liquidation proceedings and
its ultimate winding up. The assessee had absolutely no control or
supervision of the management whatsoever on the transactions
entered into by BCCI, which is a separate and distinct and legal
entity from the assessee. Hence the said BCCI was ultimately held
liable for payment of certain sums, consequent on which the assessee
was also required to pay compensation. Further even under normal
proceedings of law present in India, the banks incur huge losses in
respect of loans and advances granted by them in normal course of
banking due to fraudulent practices followed by the borrowers, and
not utilizing loans for the purpose for which it was sanctioned, large
scale diversion of bank loans for personnel use, not having sufficient
stock or other securities and utilizing the bank funds for speculative
purposes, as a result of which the banks are unable to realize their
dues in full. In such circumstances the banks usually write off such
debts either as bad debts or trading loss and no questions are raised
about the misuse of the banks funds by the borrowers and the losses
are allowed in full even though the borrowers had cheated or
defrauded the banks in such cases resulting in criminal proceedings
against the borrowers. 9. On the other hand before us, the learned Sr. DR argued that on
the issue of fraudulent transactions Hon'ble High Court justice
Chancellery Division the Commence Court London has recorded this
fact that how BCCI and these parties collided and the relevant portion
of the judgments reads as under:- 10. We have gone through the argument of both the sides and
noted that the transactions of the London Branch of the assessee
were perfectly legal and no losses were incurred on such
transactions. However the assessee was called upon to pay
compensation to the liquidators of BCCI for the losses sustained by
creditors and bank in respect of the transactions of BCCI for which
the assessee was not a party at all. However as the compensation
regarding contribution to liquidator under UIC insolvency Act was
made to fulfil its statutory liability consequent on the decision of 10 ITA Nos. 1013&1153/Mum/2013 Bank of India

judicial authorities, the said compensation takes the character of the
normal business expenditure which is allowable in full both under section 28 of Act. We find from the case law relied by assessee of
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of DR. TA Quresi Vs CIT 287 ITR
547 SC held that the explanation to Section 37 has really nothing to
do with the present case, as it is not a case of business expenditure
but of business loss. Business losses are allowable on ordinary
commercial principles in computing profit and once it is established
that the items seized, whether contraband, formed part of the stock in
trade, it follows that the seizure and confiscation of such stock in
trade is to be allowed as business loss. Hon'ble Supreme Court held
as under: - In our opinion, the High Court has adopted an emotional and moral
approach rather than a legal approach. We fully agree with the High
Court that the assessee was committing a highly immoral act in
illegally manufacturing and selling heroin. However, cases are to be
decided by Court on legal principles and not on one's own moral
views. Law is different from morality, as the positivist jurists
Bentham and Austin pointed out. As already observed above, the facts of the case are squarely covered
by the decision of this Court in CIT vs. Piara Singh (supra).
The explanation to Section 37 has really nothing to do with the
present case as it is not a case of a business expenditure, but of
business loss. Business losses are allowable on ordinary commercial
principles in computing profits. Once it is found that the heroin seized
formed part of the stock in trade of the assessee, it follows that the
seizure and confiscation of such stock in trade has to be allowed as a
business loss. Loss of stock in trade has to be considered as a trading
loss vide Commissioner of Income- Tax vs. S.N.A.S.A. Annamalai
Chettiar AIR 1973 SC 1032." 11. Alternative submissions were also made by Ld Counsel for the
assessee that Without prejudice to the above contention, at least the
following amounts should be allowed in full:- The above sums were incurred based on the order of court on the
amount of compensation payable against which the assessee had
denied its liability in the legal proceeding before the High Court and
Supreme Court, on account of passage of time and the claim is in the
nature of interest allowable u/s 28 of the Act in computing the total
income. Further, the legal expenses incurred to defend the suit
against the bank to avoid the full compensation should be allowed as
deduction in computing the total income u/s 28 of the Act, since the
same was incurred in the ordinary course of carrying on the banking 12 ITA Nos. 1013&1153/Mum/2013 Bank of India

 business to contest a substantial original demand of USD 10 Billion
 against the assessee which was reduced substantially in the appeal. 12. In view of the above facts of the case, we are of the view that
 the compensation paid in term of judgment of Hon'ble High Court of
 Justice Chanclry Division, Companies Court, London is allowable
 deduction in view of the commercial expediency. Respectfully
 following Hon'ble Supreme Court, we allow the claim of assessee.
 This issue of assessee's appeal is allowed." 7. As the facts and circumstances during the year under consideration
are same, respectfully following the order of the Tribunal we do not find
any justification for disallowing payment to liquidator of BCCI. The AO is
directed to delete the same. 8. Next grievance of assessee relates to disallowance of lease premium
paid. The learned counsel for the assessee fairly conceded that the issue is
decided against the assessee by the Tribunal in assessee's own case for
A.Y. 2004-05 in ITA No. 5977/Mum/2011 dated 26.07.2017 and also in
A.Y. 2007-08 vide order dated 13.07.2016. Respectfully following the order
of the Tribunal we do not find any infirmity in the order of the CIT(A) for
disallowance of premium paid. 9. Similarly, disallowance of provision made towards leave encashment
has also been decided against the assessee by the Tribunal in assessee's
own case for A.Y. 2008-09 vide order dated 13.07.2016. Respectfully
following the same we do not find any infirmity in the order of the lower
authorities for disallowance of provision made towards leave encashment. 10. The grievance with regard to application of Section 115JB of the Act
was not pressed by the learned counsel for the assessee, the same is
therefore dismissed in limini. 11. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is allowed in part. 12. In ground No. 2 Revenue is aggrieved for deleting part of
disallowance made under Section 14A of the Act. We have already dealt
with this issue while deciding ground No. 1 of assessee's appeal. Following 13 ITA Nos. 1013&1153/Mum/2013 Bank of India

the reasoning given therein above, the ground raised by the Revenue is
dismissed and we restrict the disallowance to 1% of the exempt income. 13. Ground No. 3 relates to disallowance of loss on account of write off
on redemption of D-2 Plus funds. The facts of the case that the assessee
made a claim of ₹.24,36,53,399/- on account of amount paid to BOI
Mutual Fund as the principal trustee due to the loss resulting on
redemption of units by the Mutual Fund on its assured return schemes
and as per the directions of RBI and SEBI, whereas the AO treated it as
capital in nature and disallowed. By the impugned order the CIT(A) deleted
the addition after observing as under: - And following the decision of my ld. predecessor A.Y. 99-00, a similar
 claim was allowed by me in the case of the assessee for A.Y. 04-05.
 In the year under consideration also, not only that the assessee was
 the principal trustee but the Asset Management Co. which managed
 the Mutual Fund merged with the assessee and, therefore, the
 payment made by the assessee definitely pertains to the business of
 the assessee. It is not only that the assessee is the principal trustee
 or the Asset Management Co. managing Mutual Fund merged with the
 assessee but the payments have also been made on the directions of
 RBI and SEBI which are therefore in the course of the business of the
 assessee. The loss suffered by the assessee is not that of capital
 nature also. Hence, the claim of the assessee is allowed and the
 ground of appeal is allowed." 14. The learned A.R. placed on record order of the Hon'ble Karnataka
High Court in the case of Canara Bank 2014-TIOL-110-HC-KAR-IT,
wherein exactly similar issue was decided in favour of the assessee. Bank of India 15. We have heard the rival contentions and carefully gone through the
orders of the Authorities below as well as the order of the Hon'ble
Karnataka High Court in the case of Canara Bank (supra). We find that as
per the finding recorded by the CIT(A) the issue has been decided in A.Y.
1999-2000 as well as in A.Y. 2004-05 in favour of the assessee. However,
the Department has not come in appeal before the Tribunal. Moreover the
issue is covered by the decision in the case of Canara Bank (supra).
Accordingly, we do not find any reason to interfere with the order of CIT(A)
for allowing the write off on redemption of D-2 Plus funds. 16. Ground No. 4 relates to disallowance of loss on account of amount
written off on account of Bank of India Mutual Rising Monthly Income
(1990) Scheme. 17. Rival contentions have been heard and record perused. The facts of
the case are that the assessee sponsored BOI Mutual Fund scheme and at
the time of redemption of the Mutual Fund there was a loss of
₹1,50,31,452/- because the Mutual Fund was redeemed at the assured
return. The Mutual Fund has been paid this amount by the assessee
because Mutual Fund was sponsored by the assessee and keeping in view
the commercial expediency and the nature of banking business, the
promise of assured return was fulfilled and the assessee paid the loss,
which has been claimed as an expenditure, but the A.O. has disallowed it
holding that it is capital in nature and there was a no contractual liability
for making payment for any such loss, which has been disputed by the
assessee. 18. By the impugned order the CIT(A) deleted the addition after
observing as under: - 19. Rival contentions have been heard and record perused. Following the
reasoning given with respect to ground No. 3, we uphold the order of the
CIT(A) for deleting the disallowance of loss on account of amount written off. 20. Ground No. 5 relates to exclusion of income of foreign branches. 21. The learned A.R. placed on record order of the Tribunal in assessee's
own case for A.Y. 2004-05 wherein this issue was decided in favour of the
assessee. 22. Rival contentions have been heard and record perused. The facts of
the case are that assessee has its branches located in foreign countries
and accordingly the branches are tax residence of those countries and
taxes are paid by them as per the laws of the respective countries. These
countries are of two types, viz., one with which India has DTAA and the
other with which India has no DTAA. In case of countries with which India
has DTAA assessee has claimed exclusion of income of the concerned
branch from the total income of the assessee claiming that taxes have
already been paid on such income as per the provisions of the respective
countries and as per DTAA such income is not allowed to be doubly taxed
again in the hands of the assessee in India. The -said claim of the assessee
has not been accepted by the A.O. with regard to the branches located in
Hong Kong, Paris, USA and UK. Whereas the assessee has claimed that it
has been allowed in earlier years by the CIT(A) and ITAT. The second
objection, in Ground No.5(b), of the assessee is with, respect to the branch
located at "Jersey", where no DTAA exists and, therefore, assessee has
claimed relief under Section 91 regarding the taxes paid by Jersey branch
which has also been rejected by the A.O. In Ground No. 5(c) the assessee
has made an alternative claim if Ground No. 5(a) is not allowed. By the 16 ITA Nos. 1013&1153/Mum/2013 Bank of India

impugned order the CIT(A) deleted the addition after having detailed
finding at para 18 of his order. 23. We find that this issue is covered by the decision of the Tribunal for
A.Y. 2004-05 vide paras 25 to 27, which reads as under: - 26. At the outset it is noticed that this issue has already been
 deliberated by the Tribunal in assessee's own case for AY 2003-04 in ITA No. 3534/Mum/2011 vide order dated 15-06-2012 and has allowed the claim of the assessee vide Para 34 and 35 as under: - Even Hon'ble Bombay High Court also confirmed the decision of
Tribunal in Income Tax Appeal No. 1630/Mum/2012 vide order dated
07-01-2015, wherein Hon'ble High Court has dismissed the Revenues
contention by observing in Para 4 as under: - 27. As the issue is squarely covered in favour of assessee in
 assessee's own case, respectfully following the Hon'ble Bombay High
 Court and co-ordinate Bench decision, we confirm the action of the
 CIT(A) and deleing the addition. This issue of Revenue's appeal is
 dismissed." 24. As the facts and circumstances are same, respectfully following
decision of the Tribunal in assessee's own case as stated above, we do not
find any reason to interfere with the order of the CIT(A) for excluding the
income of foreign branches from assessee's income. 25. Ground No. 6 relates to disallowance of provision for wage arrears. 26. The facts of the case are that the assessee made a claim of
₹138,50,68,957/- on account of revision of salary to the extent of 13.25%
hike for the period from 01.112002 to 31.03.2003 and 01.04.2004 to
31.033.2005, whereas, the claim was reduced to ₹80.54 crores during
appellate proceedings vide submissions dated 08.08.2012 which pertain to
the period from 01.04.2004 to 31.03.2005 because the balance claim for
₹57.96 crore pertaining to the period from 01.11.2002 to 31.03.2003 has
already been allowed to the assessee in the appeal for A.Y. 2004-05.
Whereas, the A.O. rejected the claim of the assessee holding that payment
of arrear wages can be allowed only in the year of actual payment, which is
relevant to P.Y. 2005-06 i.e. A.Y. 2006-07, whereas assessee has claimed
that on the basis of settlement reached between Indian Bank Association
on behalf of management of all banks and the various unions in November,
2004 the amount could be ascertained with reasonable certainty in the
year under consideration only based on the ongoing negotiations at that
point of time and, therefore, this liability is claimed to be crystallized in the
year under consideration and accordingly claimed as allowable expenditure 19 ITA Nos. 1013&1153/Mum/2013 Bank of India

and the said expenditure of ₹80.54 crore has been charged to Profit & Loss
Account in the books of account. 27. By the impugned order the CIT(A) deleted the addition after having
detailed observation in para 40 of his order, which reads as under: - 29. I agree with the submissions of the A.R. that interest on
 Government securities do not arise on day-to-day basis but only on
 specified dates. Hence the income of the assessee has not accrued on
 the closing date of the assessment year. Therefore, the appellant has
 rightly excluded the interest income on Government securities from the
 total income of the assessee. Reliance is placed on the decision of
 ITAT, Mumbai, in the case of Union Bank of India in ITA
 No.5347/Mum/2007 dated 31/10/2007. SLP filed by the Department
 has been rejected. Accordingly, I direct the A. O. to allow the claim of
 the appellant and delete the addition of Rs. 457,86,49,040/. This
 ground of appeal is allowed." Therefore, respectfully following the decision of Hon'ble ITAT and that
 of my predecessor, the ground of appeal is allowed." 28. It is clear from the above order of the CIT(A) that he has followed the
order of the Tribunal on this issue. We have also carefully gone through
the order of the Tribunal in assessee's own case for A.Y. 2008-09 and A.Y.
2009-10 dated 08.11.2013 wherein the issue has been dealt with at pages
1 and 2. The learned D.R. fairly agreed that the issue is covered by the
order of the Tribunal. Respectfully following the same, we do not find any
reason to interfere in the order of the CIT(A) for deleting the disallowance
made for provision for wage arrears. 29. Ground No. 7 relates to deletion of disallowance of interest accrued
but not due on securities. 30. We found that this issue is also decided by the Hon'ble High Court
in the case of DIT vs. Credit Suisse First Boston (Cyprus) Ltd. 351 ITR 323 20 ITA Nos. 1013&1153/Mum/2013 Bank of India

and also in the case of CITG vs. Indus Bank 373 ITR 170. The SLP filed
against this order by the Department has been dismissed by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of Federal Bank Ltd. 310 ITR 9. Respectfully
following the order of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court and other Hon'ble
High Courts as referred above, we do not find any reason to interfere in the
order of the CIT(A) for deleting the disallowance of interest accrued but not
due on securities. 31. With regard to disallowance of bad debts written off, it has been
decided in favour of the assessee by the ITAT in A.Y. 2007-08 vide order
dated 13.07.2016 after having detailed observation in paras 3 to 5.
Respectfully following the same we do not find any reason to interfere in
the order of the CIT(A) for deleting the disallowance on bad debts written
off. 32. The addition made on account of diminution in the value of
investments has been deleted by the CIT(A) after having detailed finding at
paras 50 & 51 of his order, which reads as under: - Bank of India 51. Therefore, in view of the above mentioned decisions of Hon'ble
 Supreme Court, High Court and that of Hon'ble ITAT the issue is
 squarely covered in favour of the assessee because the securities
 under consideration constitute the stock-in-trade in the year under
 consideration also and the same have been valued as per cost or
 market price whichever is lower and this method is consistently
 followed by the assessee. Hence the disallowance made by the A.O.
 is deleted and the ground of appeal of the assessee is allowed." 33. We have carefully gone through the orders of the Authorities below
and find that the issue is covered by the decision of the ITAT in assessee's
own case for A.Y. 2008-09 vide order dated 13.07.2016 and also by the
Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of HDFC Bank 366 ITR 505.
Respectfully following the same we do not find any reason to interfere in
the order of the CIT(A) for deleting the addition made on account of
diminution of value of investment. 34. Ground No. 10 relates to deleting disallowance of depreciation on
leased assets. 35. We find that very same issue has been decided by the Tribunal in
assessee's own case for A.Y. 2007-08 vide order dated 13.07.2016 vide
para 7. The CIT(A) has also deleted the disallowance after observing as
under: - 36. Respectfully following the order of the Tribunal in assessee's own
case, we do not find any reason to interfere in the order of the CIT(A) for
deleting the disallowance of depreciation on leased assets. Bank of India 37. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee is allowed in part while
the appeal filed by Revenue is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 27th August, 2018.