INTRODUCTION 1. A Division Bench of this Court (cor. Chief Justice and M.S.
 Karnik, J.) while considering this batch of writ petitions was of
 the view that the issues emerging for decision therein can be
 advantageously heard and disposed of by a larger Bench. In
 deference to the order dated 25th November 2021 passed by
 such Bench and in exercise of power conferred on the Chief
 Justice by rule 8 of Chapter I of the Bombay High Court
 Appellate Side Rules, 1960, this larger Bench was constituted.
 The parties were put on notice and heard at length on multiple
 legal and factual issues. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 2. The controversy lies in a narrow compass, with the
 Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and
 Enforcement of Security interest Act, 2002 (hereafter
 " SARFAESI Act ", for short) and the Recovery of Debts and
 Bankruptcy Act, 1993 (hereafter "RDDB Act", for short) taking
 centre-stage. Who between a secured creditor [as defined in section 2(1)(zd) of the SARFAESI Act and section 2(1)(la) of
 the RDDB Act], and the taxing/revenue departments of the
 Central/State Governments, can legally claim priority for
 liquidation of their respective dues qua the borrower/dealer
 upon enforcement of the 'security interest' [as defined in section 2(1)(zf) of the SARFAESI Act] and consequent sale of
 the 'secured asset' [as defined in section 2(1)(zc) of the
 SARFAESI Act], in view of the extant laws, is the broad question
 that we are tasked to decide. This question, in turn, raises
 certain other substantial questions of law, which would also call
 for answers and we propose to answer them too. 3. The parties have, in course of their arguments, referred
 to the provisions of the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966
 (hereafter "MLR Code", for short), the Maharashtra Value Added
 Tax Act, 2002 (hereafter " MVAT Act ", for short), the Bombay
 Sales Tax, 1959 (hereafter "BST Act", for short) and the Maharashtra Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereafter
 " MGST Act ", for short), more particularly sections 37 and 38C
 of the MVAT Act and the BST Act, respectively. These similarly
 worded sections, starting with non-obstante clauses, provide
 that any amount of tax, penalty, interest, sum forfeited, fine or
 any other sum payable by a dealer or any other person shall be 6 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 the first charge on the property of the dealer or the person, as
 the case may be, subject to any provision regarding creation of
 first charge in any Central Act for the time being in force. Section 82 of the MVAT Act is similarly worded, except that
 creation of such first charge would be subject to any Central
 Act for the time being in force is not to be found there. These
 provisions have necessarily to be read with section 26E of the
 SARFAESI Act and section 31B of the RDDB Act to ascertain the
 correct legal position. 4. Several decisions of various High Courts, including
 decisions rendered by Division Benches of this Court, have been
 brought to our notice by learned advocates appearing for the
 secured creditors on the effect of 'priority' that section 26E of
 the SARFAESI Act and section 31B of the RDDB Act accord to
 secured creditors, but none directly on the point rendered by
 the Supreme Court as on date the judgment on these writ
 petitions was reserved. We propose to notice all such decisions
 separately at a later part of this opinion. BACKGROUND FEATURES 5. It would be appropriate to preface our opinion by briefly
 tracing the developments in the field of law relating to recovery
 of dues of banks and financial institutions (hereafter "lenders",
 for short, when referred to collectively) relevant for the purpose
 of answering the questions of law formulated infra. 6. Prior to 1993, for effecting recovery of debts, the lenders
 were required to institute suits regulated by the provisions of
 the Code of Civil Procedure (hereafter " CPC ", for short). 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 However, the normal time-consuming process of recovery
 through suits did not suit the recovery of dues. Multifarious
 problems surfaced. Drying up of financial liquidity, thereby
 retarding economic progress, emerged as the prime problem.
 Without recovery of the dues, the lenders found it difficult to
 lend further financial assistance. It is at this stage that the
 Parliament enacted the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and
 Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (hereafter "RDBFI Act", for
 short) making provisions for establishment of Tribunals for
 expeditious adjudication and recovery of debts due to the
 lenders and for matters connected therewith or incidental
 thereto. The RDBFI Act, which came into force w.e.f. 24 th June
 1993 all over the country except Jammu and Kashmir, was the
 legislative source of creation of Debts Recovery Tribunals
 (hereafter "DRTs", for short) in various states. Upon becoming
 functional, the lenders started pursuing their remedy before the
 DRTs by instituting recovery proceedings before it in
 accordance with the RDBFI Act. 7. Challenges to the constitutional validity of the RDBFI Act
 were laid before the Delhi High Court, the Gauhati High Court
 and the Karnataka High Court. Such challenges succeeded.
 However, the Supreme Court by its decision reported in (2002)
 4 SCC 275 ( Union of India vs. Delhi High Court Bar
 Association) overruled the judgment and order impugned
 before it and upheld the provisions of the RDBFI Act. 8. In due course of time, recourse taken by the lenders to
 the DRTs under the RDBFI Act on a large scale coupled with
 other reasons, which we need not discuss here, led to the 8 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 perception that the desired results were not being achieved.
 This led to constitution of various committees to suggest
 ameliorative measures keeping in view the changing times and
 the economic situation for overcoming old and conventional
 methods of financing and recovery of dues. Based on the
 suggestions that were received and after thorough
 deliberations, the Parliament enacted the SARFAESI Act and
 made it applicable throughout the country three days short of
 the eighth birthday of the RDBFI Act, on 21 st June 2002, to be
 precise. Securitisation of debts, classification of Non-
 Performing Assets (hereafter "NPA", for short) and evolving
 means for faster recovery of dues without judicial intervention
 were, inter alia, the key features of the SARFAESI Act , with
 quick enforcement of security interest at its heart. 9. The SARFAESI Act having been challenged before the
 Supreme Court as ultra vires, the Court by its decision reported
 in (2004) 4 SCC 311 ( Mardia Chemicals Ltd. vs Union of
 India ) upheld all but one of the provisions, i.e., section 17(2) .
 Also , the said decision resulted in amendment of section 13 and
 consequent insertion of sub-section (3A) in section 13 . 10. Provisions of the SARFAESI Act vis-à-vis the RDBFI Act
 came up for consideration before the Supreme Court within
 three years of the decision in Mardia Chemicals Ltd. (supra). In the decision reported in AIR 2007 SC 712 ( Transcore vs
 Union of India ), the Court was, inter alia, seized of the
 question as to whether withdrawal of an original application
 instituted in terms of the first proviso to section 19(1) of the
 RDBFI Act (inserted by Amending Act 30 of 2004) is a condition 9 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 precedent for taking recourse to the SARFAESI Act . The Court
 noticed the reasons for enactment of the SARFAESI Act and
 made a deep analysis of both the Acts. Upon hearing learned
 counsel for the parties and on consideration of Order XXIII, CPC and the relevant two enactments, the Court answered this
 question in the negative. 11. Within a couple of years therefrom came the decision
 reported in (2009) 4 SCC 94 ( Central Bank of India vs. State
 of Kerala ). The questions arising out of the several civil
 appeals for decision were, whether section 38C of the BST Act,
 1959 and section 26B of the Kerala General Sales Tax Act, 1963
 and similar provisions contained in other State legislations by
 which first charge was created on the property of the dealer or
 such other person, who is liable to pay sales tax, etc., are
 inconsistent with the provisions contained in the RDBFI Act for
 recovery of 'debt' and the SARFAESI Act for enforcement of
 'security interest', and whether by virtue of non-obstante
 clauses contained in section 34(1) of the RDBFI Act and section
 35 of the SARFAESI Act, the said two Central Acts will have
 primacy over the several State legislations. Here too, the Court
 considered the scheme of the two Central Acts in depth as well
 as several other Central legislations providing for creation of
 first charge, viz. the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923 , the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 , the Employees
 Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 , the Estate Duty Act, 1953 , the Companies Act, 1956 , the Mines and
 Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 and the Gift
 Tax Act, 1958 . 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 12. It would be profitable for us to reproduce below the
 relevant paragraphs from the said decision , which learned
 counsel for the parties referred to and relied upon. Such
 paragraphs read thus: (emphasis ours) 13. A few years after the aforesaid decision, the title of the
 RDBFI Act underwent an amendment. By Act XXXI of 2016, the
 word "Bankruptcy" replaced the words "Due to Banks and
 Financial Institutions", resulting in the rechristening of the
 RDBFI Act as the RDDB Act. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 14. The decision in Central Bank of India (supra) [holding,
 inter alia, that the RDBFI Act and the SARFAESI Act do not
 contain provisions giving priority to the dues of banks, financial
 institutions and other secured creditors over the first charge
 created under State legislations because Parliament did not
 intend to give priority to the dues of private creditors over
 sovereign debt of the State (paragraph 126) and also that if
 Parliament intended to give such priority then provisions similar
 to those contained in the referred Central legislations would
 have been incorporated in the RDBFI Act and the SARFAESI Act
 (paragraph 129)] is presumed to have acted as a catalyst
 leading to the enactment of the Enforcement of Security
 Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws and Miscellaneous
 Provisions (Amendment) Act, 2016, being Amendment Act No.
 XLIV of 2016 (hereafter "2016 Amending Act ", for short). The
 Statement of Objects and Reasons as contained in the Bill for
 the 2016 Amending Act introduced in the Lok Sabha reads as
 follows: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 5. The Bill aims to improve ease of doing business and
 facilitate investment leading to higher economic growth
 and development. 6. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives." 15. Section 31B incorporated in the RDDB Act by the 2016 Amending Act and introduced with effect from 1st September
 2016, reads as follows: "31-B. Priority to secured creditors.-- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for
 the time being in force, the rights of secured creditors to
 realise secured debts due and payable to them by sale of
 assets over which security interest is created, shall have
 priority and shall be paid in priority over all other debts
 and Government dues including revenues, taxes, cesses
 and rates due to the Central Government, State
 Government or local authority. Explanation.-- For the purposes of this section, it is
 hereby clarified that on or after the commencement of the
 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (31 of 2016), in
 cases where insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings are
 pending in respect of secured assets of the borrower,
 priority to secured creditors in payment of debt shall be
 subject to the provisions of that Code." 16. Although a new chapter, i.e., Chapter IV-A, was sought to
 be introduced in the SARFAESI Act by the 2016 Amending Act ,
 it was not immediately given effect. Effect was given as late as
 on 24th January 2020. The entirety of Chapter IV-A, titled
 'Registration by Secured Creditors and Other Creditors', is
 reproduced hereunder: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD (a) that the omission to file with the Registrar the
 particulars of any transaction of securitisation, asset
 reconstruction or security interest or modification or
 satisfaction or such transaction or; the omission or
 misstatement of any particular with respect to any
 such transaction or modification or with respect to
 any satisfaction or other entry made in pursuance of
 Section 23 or Section 24 or Section 25 of the
 principal Act was accidental or due to inadvertence
 or some other sufficient cause or it is not of a nature
 to prejudice the position of creditors; or (b) that on other grounds, it is just and equitable to
 grant relief,
 may, on the application of a secured creditor or asset
 reconstruction company or any other person interested on
 such terms and conditions as it may seem to the Central
 Government just and expedient, direct that the time for
 filing of the particulars of the transaction for registration
 or modification or satisfaction shall be extended or, as the
 case may require, the omission or misstatement shall be
 rectified. (2) Where the Central Government extends the time for
 the registration of transaction of security interest or
 securitisation or asset reconstruction or modification or
 satisfaction thereof, the order shall not prejudice any
 rights acquired in respect of the property concerned or
 financial asset before the transaction is actually
 registered. 26-B. Registration by secured creditors and other
 creditors.-- (1) The Central Government may by notification, extend
 the provisions of Chapter IV relating to Central Registry
 to all creditors other than secured creditors as defined in
 clause (zd) of sub-section (1) of Section 2 , for creation,
 modification or satisfaction of any security interest over
 any property of the borrower for the purpose of securing
 due repayment of any financial assistance granted by
 such creditor to the borrower. (2) From the date of notification under sub-section (1),
 any creditor including the secured creditor may file 20 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 particulars of transactions of creation, modification or
 satisfaction of any security interest with the Central
 Registry in such form and manner as may be prescribed.
 (3) A creditor other than the secured creditor filing
 particulars of transactions of creation, modification and
 satisfaction of security interest over properties created in
 its favour shall not be entitled to exercise any right of
 enforcement of securities under this Act. (4) Every authority or officer of the Central Government
 or any State Government or local authority, entrusted
 with the function of recovery of tax or other Government
 dues and for issuing any order for attachment of any
 property of any person liable to pay the tax or
 Government dues, shall file with the Central Registry such
 attachment order with particulars of the assessee and
 details of tax or other Government dues from such date
 as may be notified by the Central Government, in such
 form and manner as may be prescribed. (5) If any person, having any claim against any borrower,
 obtains orders for attachment of property from any court
 or other authority empowered to issue attachment order,
 such person may file particulars of such attachment
 orders with Central Registry in such form and manner
 on payment of such fee as may be prescribed. 26-C. Effect of the registration of transactions,
 etc.-- (1) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in any
 other law, for the time being in force, any registration of
 transactions of creation, modification or satisfaction of
 security interest by a secured creditor or other creditor or
 filing of attachment orders under this Chapter shall be
 deemed to constitute a public notice from the date and
 time of filing of particulars of such transaction with the
 Central Registry for creation, modification or satisfaction
 of such security interest or attachment order, as the case
 may be. (2) Where security interest or attachment order upon any
 property in favour of the secured creditor or any other
 creditor are filed for the purpose of registration under the
 provisions of Chapter IV and this Chapter, the claim of 21 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 such secured creditor or other creditor holding
 attachment order shall have priority over any subsequent
 security interest created upon such property and any
 transfer by way of sale, lease or assignment or licence of
 such property or attachment order subsequent to such
 registration, shall be subject to such claim: 17. A reference was pending before the Full Bench of the
 Madras High Court prior to Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act being enforced. The said Full Bench by a short order reported
 in AIR 2017 Madras 67 [Asst. Commissioner (CT) vs. Indian
 Overseas Bank ] disposed of the reference holding, inter alia,
 that: 4. The law having now come into force, naturally it would
 govern the rights of the parties in respect of even a lis
 pending. 5. The aforesaid would, thus, answer question (a) in
 favour of the financial institution, which is a secured
 creditor having the benefit of the mortgaged property. 6. Insofar as question (b) is concerned, the same is
 stated to relate only to auction sales, which may be
 carried out in pursuance to the rights exercised by the
 secured creditor having a mortgage of the property. This
 aspect is also covered by the introduction of section 31B,
 as it includes 'secured debts due and payable to them by
 sale of assets over which security interest is created'. 7. We, thus, answer the aforesaid reference accordingly." 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 18. Several other judgments of this Court as well as other
 High Courts followed in quick succession, more or less taking
 the consistent view that introduction of sections 31B and 26E in the RDDB Act and the SARFAESI Act, respectively, by the
 2016 Amending Act have tilted the scales in favour of the
 secured creditors and being a pre-2016 Amending Act decision, Central Bank of India (supra) is no longer relevant to hold
 that the secured creditors would not have first charge or priority
 in the matter of recovery of their dues. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES 19. Having taken note of the background features, let us now
 briefly notice the broad submissions advanced on behalf of the
 contesting parties. 20. It has been contended on behalf of the secured creditors
 that the priority created by section 31B is not restricted to
 enforcement under the RDDB Act; section 31B recognizes
 priority generally. Referring to section 26E , it has further been
 contended that priority is also recognized by the SARFAESI Act .
 The secured creditors have, thus, contended that in view of
 amendments brought about by the 2016 Amending Act in both
 the Central enactments, i.e., the RDDB Act and the SARFAESI
 Act, they are entitled to assert priority over claims of the State
 sales tax department under the MVAT Act , both or either under
 section 31B of the RDDB Act and/or section 26E of the
 SARFAESI Act. 21. The secured creditors have further contended that there
 is no dispute that the Central Acts and the State legislations 24 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 operate in different fields and there is no apparent repugnancy;
 on the contrary, the State legislations are clear to this extent
 that the same would yield to Central Acts creating first charge.
 We have been invited to read sections 37 and 38C of the MVAT
 Act and the BST Act, respectively, in support of such contention. 22. Before proceeding further, it would be apposite to note section 37 of the MVAT Act. It reads: (emphasis ours) 23. Notwithstanding that section 37 of the MVAT Act begins
 with a non-obstante clause, it is explicit that such provision is
 subject to the creation of a first charge in a Central Act. It has
 been submitted that the secured debt of the secured creditors
 would have priority over any first charge created by the MVAT
 Act in favour of the relevant department of the Government.
 This is because the statutory priority accorded to secured
 creditors is the same as creation of first charge and the very
 enactment under which the department claims its right, 25 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 recognizes the primacy of provisions in Central Acts regarding
 creation of priority in charge. 24. Similar argument has been advanced in respect of section
 38C of the BST Act, which is similarly worded as sub-section
 (1) of section 37 of the MVAT Act. Section 38C of the BST Act
 reads as follows: (emphasis ours) 25. Our attention has also been invited to sections 82 and 142 of the MGST Act, providing as follows: ***" 26. It has also been contended that in the event this Court
 holds that section 26E of the SARFAESI Act is not applicable
 without registration of the security interest, the secured
 creditors are entitled to the reliefs claimed on account of
 statutory priority of charge accorded to them in terms of section
 31B of the RDDB Act. According to the secured creditors, bare
 perusal of section 31B of the RDDB Act would evidence the fact
 that even de hors registration of security interest under the SARFAESI Act , and even prior to section 26E of the SARFAESI
 Act coming into force on 24th January 2020, the claims of the
 secured creditors had priority with respect to payment of their
 dues, over all other debts and government dues, including
 revenues, taxes, cesses and rates due to the Central
 Government, State Government or local authorities on and
 from 1st September 2016, being the date on which the said
 provision of law was brought into effect. 27. The further contention has been that section 31B of the
 RDDB Act will apply even to cases where proceedings under the
 RDDB Act have not been preferred by secured creditors for the
 following reasons: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD (ii) The explanation contained in section 31B clarifies
 that for the purposes of the said section, after the
 commencement of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code,
 2016 (hereafter "I & B Code", for short), in cases where
 insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings are pending in
 respect of the secured assets of the borrower, priority to
 secured creditors in payment of debt shall be subject to
 the provisions of that Code. In other words, when the
 legislature intended to restrict the application of the said
 section in relation to proceedings taken under a different
 piece of legislation, i.e., the I & B Code, the legislature
 clarified its position explicitly by way of adding an
 explanation to section 31B. In the absence of such a
 clarification or explanation with respect to steps taken
 under the SARFAESI Act , it is apparent that the legislature
 intended the provisions of section 31B to be applicable
 even to cases where no proceedings under the RDDB Act
 or before the DRT were taken by a secured creditor. (iii) Section 31B and section 26E were introduced into
 their respective parent statutes by the same amending
 act, i.e., the 2016 Amending Act . A perusal of the
 statement of objects and reasons with respect to the said
 Act would demonstrate that the objects and reasons of
 the said amendments to the SARFAESI Act as well as the
 RDDB Act, was the same, i.e. to give "priority to secured
 creditors in repayment of debts". However, section 31B
 was brought into effect on 1st September 2016, whereas section 26E was brought into effect on 24th January 2020. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 In the above stated background of facts and
 circumstances and especially in the light of the manner,
 object and purpose with which the said sections were
 introduced into the statute books, it could never have
 been the intention of the legislature that if a secured
 creditor resorted to the provisions of the RDDB Act for
 realisation of debts due to it, they would have the benefit
 of priority in repayment of debts while, if they resorted to
 the provisions of the SARFAESI Act , they would not. Such
 an interpretation would lead to arbitrariness and would
 fall foul of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. (iv) A bare perusal of the other sections contained in the
 said Chapter VI (viz. sections 34 , 35 , 36 and 37 ) make it
 clear that they do not all apply only to proceedings before
 the DRT or proceedings initiated under the RDDB Act. 28. Having recorded the contentions advanced on behalf the
 secured creditors, to the extent we found them to be relevant,
 we now proceed to record the submissions advanced on behalf
 of the State Government and its departments. 29. First, the arguments advanced by Mr. Sonpal, learned
 special counsel for the respondents 6 to 9 in W.P. No.436 of
 2021 may be noticed. 30. According to Mr. Sonpal, section 26E was inserted on 1 st
 September 2016 and made effective from 24th January 2020;
 however, conspicuously, section 26E does not create 'first
 charge' in favour of the secured creditors. It only provides for
 'priority' of payment to secured creditors over other creditors. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 Referring to the decision in Central Bank of India (supra), he
 contended that the Supreme Court in paragraph 95 referred to
 various enactments and their provisions, viz. the BST Act, the
 Kerala Sales Tax Act, 1963, the Workmen's Compensation Act,
 1923 , the Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous
 Provisions Act, 1952 , the Estate Duty Act, 1953 , the Mines and
 Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 , and the Gift
 Tax Act, 1958 , and noticed that these enactments use the
 words 'first charge'. According to him, in paragraph 129 of the
 said decision , it has been held that if Parliament intended to
 give priority to the dues of banks, financial institutions, and
 other secured creditors over the 'first charge' created under
 State legislations, then provisions similar to those contained in section 14-A of the Workmen's Compensation Act, section
 11(2) of the Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous
 Provisions Act, section 74(1) of Estate Duty Act, section 25(2) of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, section 30 of the Gift Tax Act, and section 529-A of the
 Companies Act would have been incorporated in the RDDB Act
 and the SARFAESI Act. 31. Mr. Sonpal further contended that the 2016 Amending Act does not, either in the RDDB Act or the SARFAESI Act ,
 consciously and conspicuously provide for similar provisions or
 any such provisions where the 'first charge' of the State is
 displaced. This is despite the fact that the Central Government
 was conscious of the decision of the Supreme Court in Central
 Bank of India (supra). The interpretation of the amendments,
 according to him, is that 'priority' as inserted by the 2016 30 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 Amending Act shall not displace the 'first charge' of the State
 wherever the respective enactments provide so and the
 secured creditors shall be having 'priority' over Government
 dues only in cases where dues arising out of an enactment did
 not provide for the 'first charge'. Since section 26E does not
 provide for 'first charge', hence the 'first charge' of the State
 under section 37 of the MVAT Act survives. 32. Mr. Sonpal continued by contending that there is no
 conflict between section 26E of the SARFAESI Act and section
 37 of the MVAT Act, and the non-obstante clauses in section 37 of MVAT Act and section 26E in SARFAESI Act operate in
 altogether different fields. A non-obstante clause in a section,
 according to him, only overrides a contrary provision in any
 other law if it is in the same field. Since the sphere and field of
 operations of section 26E of the SARFAESI Act and section 37 of the MVAT Act are different, in absence or presence of conflict,
 both survive in their respective fields. Viewed from a different
 angle, if the dues of the Central Government or the State
 Government or a local authority are to be affected by section
 26E , the same must arise from List I or List III and not List II
 of Schedule VII of the Constitution. The SARFAESI Act and more
 particularly section 26E has Item 45 of List I as its source
 whereas Item 54 of List II is the source of existence of section
 37 of the MVAT Act. Hence, there cannot be operation of non-
 obstante clause against one another in different fields of
 legislation. 33. Next, Mr. Sonpal argued that section 26E having come
 into force on 24th January 2020 and not on 1st September 2016, 31 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 it denotes that the Central Government did not intend to bring
 the provisions of section 26E in force till 24th January 2020 and
 hence the provisions of section 26E are not retrospective but
 prospective in the absence of any provision in the 2016 Amending Act to make the amendment retrospective. The
 charge under the section attaches to the properties of dealer,
 mortgaged or not, immediately on transaction of sale, although
 payment of such tax is deferred till 21st day of the next month.
 Hence, in other words, charge under section 37 of the MVAT Act
 clings to the property on the occasion of sale though due date
 of payment can be on a later date. Thus, once the charge is
 created on incident of sale, it cannot be destroyed by
 subsequent amendment coming into force on a subsequent
 date. Therefore, on that count also, he contended that section
 37 of the MVAT Act is not affected by section 26E of the
 SARFAESI Act. 34. Moving further, Mr. Sonpal contended that the language
 of section 26E of the SARFAESI Act and section 37 of the MVAT
 Act is germane for interpretation of scope and effect of the two
 sections. Whereas the language of section 37 of the MVAT Act
 speaks of creation of 'first charge', subject to creation of 'first
 charge' by a Central Act, section 26E of the SARFAESI Act
 speaks of payment of proceeds (without using the word
 'proceeds') in priority to secured creditors. It implies that
 whenever the occasion for payment arises, it shall be first paid
 to the secured creditors and not others who may have
 independent right to receive first over others. Since section 26E does not provide for 'first charge', therefore such provision 32 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 cannot affect section 37 of the MVAT Act which can be affected
 only when a Central Act provides for 'first charge'. He further
 contended that section 26E provides for the manner of
 distribution and not right to distribution; consequently, 'first
 charge' under section 37 shall survive with all consequential
 rights. No judgment of any High Court, he also contended, has
 held that 'first charge' has been diluted by section 26E . 35. The next contention advanced by Mr. Sonpal has been that
 the MGST Act was enacted w.e.f. 1st July, 2017. Not only does section 82 of the MGST Act start with a non-obstante clause,
 any amount payable by a taxable person on account of tax,
 interest or penalty which he is liable to pay to the Government
 shall be a first charge on the property of such taxable person.
 Under section 142(8), dues under any existing law is
 recoverable as dues under the MGST Act . According to him, if
 the first charge is applicable to dues under the MGST Act and
 also the existing law on the appointed day, the non-obstante
 clause in the MGST Act shall override section 26E of the
 SARFAESI Act. 36. Finally, Mr. Sonpal contended that the pre-requisite of
 claiming benefit of section 26E of the SARFAESI Act is that the
 secured creditor has to register the security interest as
 provided in section 26B . In the absence of registration, section
 26E does not come into operation or effect. 37. Ms. Jeejeebhoy, learned special counsel for the State in
 W.P. No.2935 of 2018 contended as follows: Such a contention advanced on behalf of the petitioner
 in W.P. 2935 of 2018 fails to take into consideration the
 fact that the deeming provision under the said section,
 i.e., section 20A , comes into effect only after the
 integration of certain registration systems with the
 Central registry. This integration has to be notified by
 the Central Government. As on date, there is no
 notification in respect of integration of the Registration
 Act system with the Central registry. In the
 circumstances, registration under the Registration Act is not sufficient and the benefit of the deeming
 provision in section 20A is not available to the
 petitioner. She prayed for disposal of the writ petitions taking into
 consideration the aforesaid contentions. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 38. Mr. Samant, learned Addl. Govt. Pleader appearing for the
 respondents in quite a few of the writ petitions contended that
 though section 31B of the RDDB Act is a substantive provision,
 it is applicable only in cases where the secured creditor takes
 recourse to recover its debt by instituting proceedings before
 the DRT resulting in a judicial adjudication; but section 31B
 cannot be made applicable in all cases of recovery and
 irrespective of the procedure through which the recovery is
 sought to be made by the secured creditor. 39. Next, on the question as to whether the words 'first
 charge' and 'in priority' are synonymous or one and the same,
 Mr. Samant contended that the said words are not the same.
 According to him, the words 'first charge' show superiority of
 the charge of the concerned party whereas the words 'in
 priority' only indicate hierarchy of payment without disturbing
 the superiority of charge attached to any specific property.
 This would further mean that even if the property is sold in
 disregard of the 'first charge' applicable to it, the mortgagee of
 the property may claim the entire sale price but the 'first
 charge' on such property will not be wiped out. The person
 dealing with such property having 'first charge' will be bound
 by it. 40. It was further contended that had the Parliament intended
 to give equality to mortgage dues of bankers to 'first charge'
 holder of tax dues, it would have done so specifically and would
 not have used the words 'in priority'. Regarding the aspect of
 reading the intention of the Parliament, the observations in 38 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 Central Bank of India (supra) in paragraph ns. 131 to 136
 were relied upon. 41. Mr. Samant made an endeavor to explain the working of
 the MVAT Act . According to him, tax under the MVAT Act is
 levied on every 'dealer' on account of sales transacted by the
 dealer in the particular year. As such, the tax is on the sale
 amount and is over and above the sale price. The 'dealer'
 recovers the amount from the 'transferor' of goods or the
 ultimate purchaser. As such, the 'dealer' recovers the amount
 of tax from a third person and keeps it with him for payment to
 the Government. It can, thus, be seen that the amount of tax
 under the MVAT Act is held in custody by the 'dealer' as a
 trustee for the Government. Such an amount is having very
 high ranking as compared to mortgage dues, which are the
 result of commercial transaction. In case of commercial
 transaction with mortgage as a kind of security, the success of
 the security depends upon due performance by the parties. No
 third-party funds are involved. As such, the tax collected by a
 MVAT 'dealer' is having a class of its own, and the State
 Legislature has considered this aspect while giving 'first charge'
 to dues under the MVAT Act . Such, 'fist charge' is a status
 which is not given to all types of taxes, for e.g., Income Tax
 dues which is based on income earned and which is not having
 the status of 'first charge' and is having the status of unsecured
 dues. 42. On the question as to whether restrictions put under
 section 100 of the ToP Act regarding charge dilute the 'first
 charge' under the MVAT Act , Mr. Samant contended that two 39 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 alternative arguments are possible here. First, the MVAT Act being a special enactment and the ToP Act being a general
 enactment, the 'first charge' under the MVAT Act should be held
 to prevail over the provisions of the ToP Act. Therefore, it can
 be argued that requirements of knowledge of third party or
 person dealing in the property about existence of 'first charge'
 becomes irrelevant. It can be further argued that the
 authorities under the MVAT Act are not bound to give notice to
 the world at large. It can also be argued that giving such notice
 is practically not possible. In the alternative, even if it is
 presumed that provisions of section 100 of the ToP Act
 regarding restrictions on application of 'charge' are binding, the
 same stands complied with as demonstrated by him. The MVAT
 Act creates 'first charge' in respect of the property of the
 'dealer' in case of default. The intending purchaser is expected
 to make enquiry with the tax department before dealing in the
 said property. Such intending purchaser must find out the
 nature of business and the tax records of the defaulter. The
 department can share all the information through the Right to
 Information Act, 2005 and such intending purchaser has every
 access to the records of the department. An intending
 purchaser can, thus, by following due diligence easily come to
 know the tax liability of the defaulting 'dealer'. The
 bank/secured creditor can also come to know by using the
 same method. In fact, the bank and the third-party purchaser
 are deemed to have notice of such charge if they try to find out
 information about the title of the property. In this behalf, the
 meaning of "a person is said to have notice" is given in section 40 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 3 of the ToP Act. The said definition shows that a person should
 blame himself for his negligence for not making necessary
 enquiry with the Tax Department before entering into any kind
 of transaction about the property of the defaulter. 43. Ms. Jyoti Chavan, learned Addl. Govt. Pleader adopted the
 submissions of Mr. Narula, Ms. Jeejeebhoy and Mr. Samant,
 hereinbefore recorded. THE QUESTIONS 44. Keeping in view the rival submissions, we have considered
 it appropriate to formulate the following substantial questions
 of law for answers: LJ 721 ( State Bank of India vs. the State of
 Maharashtra and Ors. )? f. When, and if at all, can it be said that the statutory first
 charge under the State legislation, viz. the BST Act, the
 MVAT Act and the MGST Act, as the case may be,
 stands displaced having regard to introduction of Chapter IV-A in the SARFAESI Act from 24th January
 2020? and 42 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 g. Whether an auction purchaser of a secured asset would
 be liable to pay the dues of the department in order to
 obtain a clear and marketable title to the property
 having purchased the same on "as is where is and
 whatever there is basis"? CONSIDERATION OF DECISIONS: 45. Before we answer the questions formulated above, we
 consider it appropriate to note the law laid down in various
 decisions of the High Courts to which our attention was drawn
 by the parties. 46. A learned Single Judge of the Jaipur Bench of the
 Rajasthan High Court in the decision reported in 2017 SCC
 OnLine Raj 4319 (G. M. G. Engineers and Contractor Pvt.
 Ltd. and Anr. vs. State of Rajasthan and Ors.) was called
 upon to decide a challenge made to an attachment order dated
 19th April 2017 by the Sales Tax Officer, respondent no. 3. The
 attached property was auctioned by ICICI Bank, respondent no.
 5, though in view of section 47 of the Rajasthan Value Added
 Tax Act, 2003, the department had first charge on the property.
 The learned Judge was called upon to consider as the first issue
 whether the amended provisions of section 26E of the
 SARFAESI Act and section 31B of the RDDB Act would apply to
 the present case having regard to the fact that such provisions
 were incorporated in the respective Central enactments in
 2016, whereas, the attachment order was issued in the year
 2014. The learned Judge recorded that the parties did not claim
 retrospective operation of the amended provisions; even 43 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 otherwise, perusal of the amended provisions did not show the
 same and, thus, the same were found to apply prospectively.
 The learned judge was of the further view that property already
 attached towards recovery of State dues cannot be nullified by
 a subsequent legislation when the amending provisions had not
 been given retrospective effect. A contention was raised before
 the learned Judge that the decision in Central Bank of India (supra) had been rendered prior to the amendments
 incorporated in the SARFAESI Act and the RDDB Act; hence,
 the same would have no application to cases covered by the
 amended provisions. The learned Judge, upon consideration of
 the decision in Central Bank of India (supra), held as follows: " ***** 27. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
 petitioner-company submits that Section 26E of the
 amended Act gives priority to the secured creditor
 against all other debts and Government dues. In view
 of the above, effect of first charge gets nullified. I have
 considered the aforesaid argument also and find that Section 26E of the Act of 2002 gives priority to the
 secured creditor. It cannot be construed to nullify the
 statutory first charge. If the intention of Parliament
 would have been to nullify statutory first charge then
 language of the amended provision would have been as
 provided in Workmens' Compensation Act, Employees'
 Provident Fund Act, etc. 28. The State dues may be without a provision of first
 charge and in that situation, the secured creditors
 would have priority over the State dues and,
 accordingly, amended provision is to be given
 interpretation. It cannot, however, nullify a provision for
 first charge on the property. The first charge on the
 property creates right even as per the Act of 1882. It
 has already been observed that if intention of the
 Central Government was to nullify first charge, the 44 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 language of amended provision would have been in the
 manner indicated by the Apex Court in the case of Central Bank of India (supra). It is otherwise a case
 where attachment of the property in pursuance of first
 charge of the State government is much prior to the
 amended Act of 2002 and 1993 thus those amendments
 would not apply even if subsequently auction of the
 property was made. It is nothing but auction of the
 property already attached by the Government, that too,
 after initiation of proceedings under the Act of 1956. *****" 49. What is significant is that no argument was advanced on
 behalf of the sales tax authorities that section 31B of the RDDB
 Act may not have application in the facts of the case without
 any proceedings having been initiated under the RDDB Act by
 the petitioning bank. Since the judgment also does not refer to
 any proceedings having been initiated under the RDDB Act by
 the petitioning bank, we are constrained to observe that such
 decision must be held to be one rendered on its own facts and
 may not be of any assistance for us to decide the questions that
 we have formulated. 50. A learned Judge of the Kerala High Court, in the decision
 reported in (2019) SCC OnLine Ker 2890 ( State Bank of India
 vs. State of Kerala ), was seized of writ petitions instituted by
 various banks and financial institutions challenging the action
 of the State's revenue machinery in taking possession of and
 attempting to sell certain properties for alleged arrears of sales
 tax and value added tax from its respective owners which the
 bank/financial institutions claimed to be their secured assets
 consequent to equitable mortgages having been created over
 them in their favour towards security for financial
 facilities/assistance availed of by its owners. 51. While the petitioning banks/financial institutions claimed
 primary rights as secured creditors to proceed against the
 properties in question under section 26E of the SARFAESI Act
 and section 31B of the RDDB Act, the revenue claimed first 47 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 charge over such properties under section 26B of the Kerala
 General Sales Tax Act and section 38 of the Kerala Value Added
 Tax Act. After considering various decisions, the learned Judge
 recorded as follows: 52. The dicta in State Bank of India vs. State of Kerala (supra) is clear. It supports the contention that in view of
 section 31B of the RDDB Act and section 26E of the SARFAESI
 Act, first charge in favour of the banks/financial institutions is
 created for recovery/realization of their dues in priority to the
 dues of a department of the Government. 53. A Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court, in its decision
 reported in (2019) SCC Online Guj 1892 ( Kalupur
 Commercial Co-operative Bank Ltd. vs. State of Gujarat )
 considered an issue with regard to the priority of the petitioning
 cooperative bank over the dues vis-à-vis the sales tax dues
 which the State Government intended to recover from the 50 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 assets of the defaulter. In other words, the question was
 whether by virtue of section 26E of the SARFAESI Act the same
 would override the charge of the State Government under section 48 of the Gujarat Value Added Tax Act, 2003. The
 Division Bench was of the view that section 48 of the relevant VAT Act would come into play only when the liability is finally
 assessed and the amount becomes due and payable. It is only
 thereafter, if there is any charge, the same would operate. 54. Giving due regard to a decision rendered previously by
 the presiding Judge of the Division Bench, it was held in Kalupur Commercial Co-operative Bank Ltd. (supra) by the
 Division Bench that it had no hesitation in arriving at the
 conclusion that the first priority over the secured asset shall be
 of the petitioning cooperative bank and not of the State
 Government by virtue of section 48 of the relevant VAT Act .
 This resulted in setting aside of the impugned attachment dated
 22nd January 2018 and the communication dated 19th April
 2018, whereby first charge over the property was claimed. 55. We have noted that the decision in Kalupur Commercial
 Co-operative Bank Ltd. (supra) was rendered on 23rd
 September 2019, i.e., prior to enforcement of section 26E of
 the SARFAESI Act. This decision supports the contentions of the
 secured creditors before us. We, however, wish to consider the
 law laid down in paragraph 57 of the decision at a later part of
 this judgment. 56. In the decision of the Division Bench of this Court in ASREC (India) Limited (supra), the controversy arose as to 51 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 who between the petitioner and the Sales Tax Officer would be
 entitled to the proceeds of sale of the subject property in a sum
 of Rs. 8.02 crore, which was fetched upon the same being sold
 in terms of the liberty granted by the Division Bench. The State
 of Maharashtra and the Sales Tax Officer, respondents 1 and 2,
 respectively, relied upon the statutory charge created in favour
 of the sales tax department under section 37 of the MVAT Act.
 On behalf of the petitioner, it was contended that section 37 itself records that it would be subject to any Central legislation
 creating first charge and highlighted that the RDDB Act being
 the Central legislation and section 31B thereof having accorded
 first priority in favour of the secured creditor over and above
 the Government dues, including revenues, taxes, etc. and also
 because section 31B of the RDDB Act is not restricted to any
 sale conducted under the provisions of such legislations only
 and it would operate in respect of sale conducted under any
 other mechanism, including provisions of the SARFAESI Act , it
 was immaterial whether section 26E of the SARFAESI Act had
 not been brought into force. 57. Reliance was placed by the petitioner on the decisions in Assistant Commissioner (CT ) (supra), G. M. G. Engineers
 and Contractor Pvt. Ltd. (supra), Bank of Baroda (supra),
 and Kalupur Commercial Cooperative Bank Ltd. (supra). 58. On the contrary, the respondents 1 and 2 contended that
 since section 26E of the SARFAESI Act had not been brought
 into force and notwithstanding section 31B of the RDDB Act
 being in force, for the purposes of action taken under the 52 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 SARFAESI Act, the charge created by section 37 of the MVAT
 Act shall prevail. 59. In paragraph 12, the Court observed as follows: 60. Thereafter, the Division Bench referred to section 31B of
 the RDDB Act, the decision in G. M. G. Engineers and
 Contractor (supra), Assistant Commissioner (CT ) (supra), Bank of Baroda (supra) and and Kalupur Commercial
 Cooperative Bank Ltd. (supra), while recording its
 concurrence in paragraph 19 with the consistent view taken by
 3 (three) Division Benches of 3 (three) High Courts and the
 view taken by the Full Bench of the fourth High Court. Prior to
 allowing the writ petition and quashing the impugned notice
 dated 13th November 2016 issued by the respondent no. 2
 initiating a process for auction under the MLR Code, the Division
 Bench recorded in paragraphs 20 and 21 as follows: 61. What follows from a reading of the aforesaid paragraphs
 (20 and 21) is that the contention advanced by the respondents
 1 and 2 regarding mandatory registration of the security
 interest with the Central registry prior to invocation of section
 26E of the SARFAESI Act was, in the opinion of the Division
 Bench, an "argument without substance". 62. Another Division Bench of this Court had the occasion to
 consider a somewhat similar point in State Bank of India vs.
 the State of Maharashtra and Ors. (supra). The petitioning
 bank, the secured creditor challenged attachment of a plot
 under the provisions of section 32 of the MVAT Act and
 proceedings initiated by the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax,
 respondent no. 2, for recovery of Value Added Tax dues of the
 respondent no. 3 under the MLR Code. The petitioning bank
 was claiming priority of charge on the said plot as secured
 creditor in respect of the debt owed by the respondent no. 3 to
 such creditor over the sales tax dues payable by the respondent
 no. 3 to the respondent no. 2. An original application under the
 RDDB Act had been filed by the petitioning bank to recover dues
 of Rs. 2.49 crore from the respondent no. 3. While the said 54 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 application was pending adjudication before the DRT, Pune, the
 petitioning bank invoked the provisions of the SARFAESI Act by
 issuing a demand notice dated 27th November 2017 under section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act, whereafter, physical
 possession was taken on 29th May 2019. In terms of e-auction
 conducted by the petitioning bank on 17th July 2019, the said
 plot being the secured asset was sold for Rs. 89.25 lakh. On
 behalf of the petitioner, strong reliance was placed on ASREC
 (India) Ltd. (supra), while the respondents 1 and 2 contended
 that the decision in ASREC (India) Ltd. (supra) had been
 challenged before the Supreme Court and a decision thereon
 was pending. A prayer was made that till such time hearing of
 the case before the Supreme Court is concluded, hearing of the
 writ petition may be deferred. On merits, it was contended that
 the petitioning bank had not registered the security interest
 with the Central registry as required under section 26D of the
 SARFAESI Act and, as such, the debts due to the petitioning
 bank cannot be paid in priority over the tax dues of the
 respondent no. 2. It was further contended that section 26E of
 the SARFAESI Act having been notified on 24th January 2020,
 the same is effective prospectively. Also, it was contended that
 there being an assertion of claim by the respondents 1 and 2
 for recovery of tax dues and an attachment having been
 initiated to protect the interest of the revenue, contentions of
 the petitioning bank were liable to be rejected. 63. The Division Bench, after considering various provisions
 of the SARFAESI Act as well as section 31B of the RDDB Act,
 proceeded to observe in paragraphs 34 and 35 as follows: as according to us Section 31-B of the RDB Act itself would
 be sufficient to give priority to a secured creditor over the
 Respondent's charge for claiming tax dues." (underlining in original) 64. While dealing with Central Bank of India (supra), the
 Division Bench opined that the said decision would be of no
 application since section 31B of the RDDB Act not being on the
 statute book then, the impact of such a provision did not come
 up for consideration before the Supreme Court and also that
 the decision was prior to the amendments introduced in the
 RDDB Act and the SARFAESI Act by the 2016 Amending Act . Reliance was also placed by the Division Bench on paragraphs
 16 and 17 of the decision in Kalupur Commercial
 Cooperative Bank Ltd. (supra) for holding that the decision
 in Central Bank of India (supra) was of no assistance to drive
 home the point raised by the respondents 1 and 2. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 65. The decision in ASREC (INDIA) Ltd. (supra) and State
 Bank of India vs. the State of Maharashtra (supra) would
 engage our further attention while we answer the questions
 formulated above. 66. A Division Bench of this Court at its Bench at Nagpur, while
 rendering its decision reported in AIR 2021 BOMBAY 135
 ( Medineutrina Pvt. Ltd. (Company) vs. District Industries
 Centre and Ors. ) had the occasion to consider several issues.
 The first issue was as to who between the respondent no. 2
 (Assistant Commissioner, Sales Tax) and the respondent no. 3
 (Punjab National Bank) would have priority. Such issue was
 answered in favour of the respondent no. 3 having regard to
 the provisions contained in section 26E of the SARFAESI Act as
 well as the decisions in Assistant Commissioner (CT )
 (supra), State Bank of India vs. State of Maharashtra (supra) and the decision reported in 2019 SCC OnLine Bom
 9527 ( Cosmos Co-operative Bank Ltd. vs. State of
 Maharashtra and Ors. ). The Division Bench consequently
 held that the provisions of section 26E of the SARFAESI Act
 would prevail over those contained in section 37(1) of the MVAT
 Act. While the Division Bench proceeded to add a few more
 reasons why section 26E would prevail over section 37(1) of
 the MVAT Act, it considered 'charge' as defined in section 100
 of the ToP Act and held that for such charge to become
 effective, it is necessary that the transferee ought to have had
 prior notice of such charge, be it either express, implied or
 constructive or the prior existence of such charge is shown to
 have been within the knowledge of the transferee. Section 55 57 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 of the ToP Act was further referred to. The Division Bench held
 that such provision creates an obligation upon every seller to
 disclose to the buyer any material defect in the property or his
 title, of which he is aware and which the buyer cannot, with
 ordinary care, discover and pay all public charges and discharge
 all encumbrances on the property then existing. The Division
 Bench then proceeded to consider how the Supreme Court in
 its decision reported in (2009) 4 SCC 486 ( A. I. Champdany
 Industries vs. Official Liquidator and Anr. ) had given
 meaning to the word "encumbrances" in relation to the words
 "immovable property" and quoted the following paragraph: - Then followed certain observations in paragraphs 28 and 30,
 which we quote below: - Insofar as purchase of a property on 'as is where is and what
 is there is basis' is concerned, the following observations were
 made: - This was followed by directions in paragraph 41, which every
 secured creditor under the SARFAESI Act was required to
 ensure. 67. Learned advocates for the parties have placed before us
 orders of the Supreme Court in appeals that have been carried
 from the decision in Medineutrina Pvt. Ltd. (supra). While the
 directions contained in paragraph 41 have been stayed by the
 Supreme Court by an order dated 9th April 2021 in an appeal
 carried by Kotak Mahindra Bank, a non-party to the proceedings
 before the Division Bench, the appeal carried from Medineutrina Pvt. Ltd. (supra) by the writ petitioner has been
 dismissed by an order dated 18th November 2021 on a ground
 different from those assigned in the judgment and order under
 challenge. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 ANALYSIS OF THE RELEVANT LAW AND ANSWERS TO
 THE QUESTIONS 68. Having noted the submissions of the parties and bearing
 in mind the rulings in the various decisions referred to above ,
 we would now advert to the questions that have been
 formulated and answer the same. ANSWER TO QUESTIONS (a) AND (b): 69. The questions being related are answered together. 70. Chapter IV of the SARFAESI Act , in its original avatar,
 comprised of 6 (six) sections, i.e., 20 to 26 which, inter alia,
 provided for: 71. Section 26A was inserted in Chapter IV of the SARFAESI
 Act by an amendment w.e.f. January 15, 2013. It provided for
 rectification by the Central Government in matters of
 registration, modification and satisfaction, etc. of the registered
 transactions. 72. Sections 20A and 20B were inserted in Chapter IV by the
 2016 Amending Act w.e.f. September 1, 2016. While the former
 was intended to integrate registration systems with the Central
 Registry, the latter pertained to delegation of powers. 73. The 2016 Amending Act also introduced a fresh chapter
 (Chapter IV-A) in the SARFAESI Act adding four more sections
 thereto, i.e., sections 26B to 26E . The object that the
 Parliament had in mind while incorporating Chapter IV-A in the
 SARFAESI Act seems to be clear as crystal. The dominant
 theme of the additions in the statute were intended to
 emphasize upon the need to register transactions of
 securitisation, reconstruction and creation of security interest
 with the Central registry (hereafter "CERSAI", for brevity) and,
 accordingly, provisions were made to make such registration
 mandatory for a secured creditor or other creditor to avail the
 benefits flowing therefrom, as we would presently proceed to
 notice. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 74. Section 26B enables creditors [apart from secured
 creditors as defined in section 2(1)(zd) ] to file the particulars
 of creation, modification or satisfaction of any security interest
 in their favour with the Central Registry, while making it explicit
 that such creditors shall not be entitled to exercise any right of
 enforcement of securities under the SARFAESI Act . The
 provisions therein also enable any person who has obtained an
 order for attachment of property, to file particulars of such
 attachment orders with the CERSAI in the form and manner as
 may be prescribed. 75. Section 26C providing for the effect of registration of
 transactions for creation, modification or satisfaction of security
 interest declares that such registration would constitute public
 notice thereof. The said provision also declares that a secured
 creditor who has registered the security interest or other
 creditor who has registered the attachment order in its favour,
 shall have priority of claims over subsequent security interest
 created over the property in question, any transfer by way of
 sale, lease, assignment or licence of such property or
 attachment order subsequent to such registration. The
 legislative intent of requirement and benefits flowing from such
 a registration with the CERSAI can hardly be overlooked. 76. It is now time to consider sections 26D and 26E . Public
 sector banks proceeding for creation of equitable mortgage,
 i.e., mortgage by deposit of title deeds, at the time of providing
 financial assistance has been a common practice over the
 years. However, the economy and simplicity of this process was
 not without its complex problems. Since equitable mortgage 63 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 could be created without registration, the transaction between
 the lender and the borrower largely remained secret. There was
 no way anyone else could get an inkling thereof, until the
 provisions for CERSAI registration were enacted. It was well-
 nigh possible for a dishonest borrower to conceal the
 transaction of mortgage and sell the mortgaged property to an
 innocent third party by creating document of title leading to the
 purchaser unknowingly incurring a liability despite paying the
 consideration. In such a situation, the purchaser would be
 chased by the lending bank and necessarily to bear the brunt
 of its efforts geared towards recovery of its dues. Instances
 were also not rare of more than one loan being sanctioned by
 different banks on the strength of mortgage of a single property
 without one bank knowing of a prior mortgage with another
 bank. This brewed multiple funding in respect of one property,
 making it difficult for lenders to recover debts and consequent
 breeding of non-performing assets. Notwithstanding the
 concept of principal mortgagee and a puisne mortgagee, the
 minimum requirement of the mortgagee having the means to
 gauge and assess the worth and status of the property
 mortgaged before creation of mortgage for any mortgage
 transaction to be termed proper had to be achieved. We are
 inclined to the view that the Parliament, to curb such problems
 and other undesirable consequences, designed Chapter IV-A in
 such a manner to include provisions which, on the one hand,
 would disable any secured creditor to exercise the right of
 enforcing security interest under Chapter III of the SARFAESI
 Act without the CERSAI registration ( section 26D ) and, on the 64 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:13 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 other, enable the secured creditor, if it has the CERSAI
 registration, to claim priority over all other debts and all
 revenues, taxes, etc., in the matter of payment of the debts
 due to it ( section 26E ). 77. The plain reading of section 26D reveals that it has the
 effect of stripping a secured creditor of its right of enforcement
 of security interest under Chapter III in the absence of a
 CERSAI registration. Beginning with a non-obstante clause, section 26D has overriding effect qua any other law that is
 inconsistent therewith and underscores the importance of a
 CERSAI registration. Promotion of a CERSAI registration of a
 security interest being at the forefront of the legislative intent,
 the same has to be honoured. 78. Section 26E , also beginning with a non-obstante clause,
 is unambiguous in terms of language, effect, scope and import.
 A 'priority' in payment over all other dues is accorded to a
 secured creditor in enforcement of the security interest, if it has
 a CERSAI registration, except in cases where proceedings are
 pending under the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy
 Code, 2016. 79. The disabling provision in section 26D and the enabling
 provision in section 26E , both begin with non-obstante clauses,
 as noticed above. The scheme of Parts III and IV-A of the
 SARFAESI Act envisages benefits to a secured creditor who is
 diligent and obtains CERSAI registration while depriving a
 secured creditor of even taking recourse to Chapter III without
 the requisite registration. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 80. The aforesaid provisions of Chapter IVA of the SARFAESI
 Act in mind, we would now turn our attention and take a look
 at the relevant State legislations. 81. In Maharashtra, there are multiple legislation providing,
 by express statutory intendment, for 'first charge' on property
 of a person who defaults in payment of Government dues, by
 whatever name the dues are called. Such statutory intendment,
 apart from the BST Act, the MVAT Act and the MGST Act, is
 traceable in at least 4 (four) other legislations in the State of
 Maharashtra. Section 212 of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation
 Act, 1888, section 141 of the Maharashtra Municipal
 Corporations Act, 1949, section 109 of the Maharashtra Town
 and Country Planning Act, 1966 and section 331(1)(iii)(b) of
 the MLR Code, 1966, are the various sources of creation of first
 charge on property/plot. It would equally be important to note
 what section 169 of the MLR Code provides. For facility of
 appreciation, all such provisions are quoted hereunder: Explanation.-- The term 'property tax' in this section
 shall be deemed to include charges payable under section
 134 for water supplied to any premises and the costs of
 recovery of property taxes as specified in the rules. (2) In any decree passed in a suit for the
 enforcement of the charge created by sub-section (1), the
 court may order the payment to the Corporation of
 interest on the sum found to be due at such rate as the
 Court deems reasonable from the date of the institution
 of the suit until realisation, and such interest and the cost
 of enforcing the said charge, including the costs of the suit
 and the cost of bringing premises or movable property in
 question to sale under the decree, shall, subject as
 aforesaid, be a fresh charge on such premises and
 movable property along with the amount found to be due,
 and the Court may direct payment thereof to be made to
 the Corporation out of the sale proceeds." Section 109 of the Maharashtra Regional and Town
 Planning Act, 1996: (2) Any sum due to the Planning Authority under
 this Act, rule or any regulation made thereunder which is
 not paid on demand on the day on which it becomes due
 or on the day fixed by the Planning Authority, shall be
 recoverable by the Planning Authority from the defaulter
 as if they were arrears of land revenue. (3) If any question arises whether a sum is due to
 the Planning Authority within the meaning of sub-section
 (2), it shall be referred to a tribunal constituted by the
 State Government consisting of one or more persons not
 connected with the Planning Authority or any authority
 subordinate to it or with the person by whom the sum is
 alleged to be payable which the tribunal shall, after
 making such inquiry as it may deem fit and after giving to
 the person by whom the sum is alleged to be payable, an
 opportunity of being heard, decide the question; and the
 decision of the tribunal thereon shall be final and shall not
 be called in question in any court or before any other
 authority. (4) The procedure to be followed by the tribunal in
 deciding questions referred to it under sub-section (2)
 shall be such as may be prescribed by the State
 Government." Section 169 of the MLR Code: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 (2) The claim of the State Government to any
 monies other than arrears of land revenue, but
 recoverable as a revenue demand under the provisions of
 this Chapter shall have priority over all unsecured claims
 against any land or holder thereof." Section 331(1)(iii)(b) of the MLR Code: ***" Rashbehary Ghose states in Law of Mortgage (TLL, 7th
 Edn., p. 386) - 'It seems a government debt in India is
 not entitled to precedence over a prior secured debt'." 87. It would also not be inapposite to draw guidance from the
 decision of the Supreme Court reported in (2006) 10 SCC 452
 ( ICICI Bank Ltd. vs. SIDCO Leathers Ltd. ) where the Court
 ruled as follows: 88. Bare perusal of the 2016 Amending Act would show that
 the dues of the Central/State Governments were in the specific
 contemplation of the Parliament while it amended the RDDB Act
 and the SARFAESI Act, both of which make specific reference
 to debts and all revenues, taxes, cesses and other rates
 payable to the Central Government or State Government or
 local authority and ordains that the dues of a secured creditor
 will have 'priority', i.e., take precedence. Significantly, the
 statute goes quite far and it is not only revenues, taxes, cesses
 and other rates payable to the State Government or any local 74 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 authority but also those payable to the Central Government
 that would have to stand in the queue after the secured creditor
 for payment of its dues. 89. The effect of using the word 'priority' in section 26E of the
 SARFAESI Act, according to us, is this. The rights accorded to
 'first charge' holders by Central as well as State legislation
 having been known to the Parliament, in such a situation, what
 the Parliament intended by exercising its legislative power by
 introducing amendments in the SARFAESI Act , more
 particularly by incorporating section 26E therein, was to
 explicitly make the valuable right of the 'first charge' holder
 subordinate to the dues of a second creditor. The rights of such
 of the first charge holders accorded by several legislations
 enacted by the State, having regard to the language in which section 26E is couched, would rank subordinate to the right of
 the secured creditor as defined in section 2(1)(zd) subject, of
 course, to compliance with the other provisions of the statute.
 Acceptance of the contra-arguments of learned counsel for the
 State/respondents would undo what the Parliament has chosen
 to do. 90. We may answer the question from a different angle. The
 RDDB Act and the SARFAESI Act are Central Acts. If any
 provision therein is discerned to be seemingly inconsistent with
 any provision in a State legislation, reconciliation of the same
 ought to be attempted failing which the Central Acts will prevail
 over the State legislations, in view of the principle of
 repugnancy that Article 254 of the Constitution contemplates.
 Further, section 37 of the MGST Act and section 38C of the BST 75 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 Act expressly make it subject to the provisions of any Central
 Act creating 'first charge'. Also, section 26E of the SARFAESI is
 a subsequent legislation, as it was notified on 24 th January
 2020. Subject to compliance of the terms of Chapter IV-A, section 26E of the SARFAESI Act would, thus, override any
 provision in the MGST Act and the BST Act in case of a conflict
 with the SARFAESI Act . 91. The further contention of learned counsel for the
 State/respondents that 'enforcement of first charge' and 'shall
 be paid in priority over all other debts' are not synonymous and
 that the latter is subordinate to the former, in our view, is
 misconceived. If enforced, 'first charge' would ultimately lead
 to priority in payment only. Where the end result is the same,
 mere change in expression would not make the provisions
 different. While agreeing with the opinion of the learned Judge
 of the Kerala High Court in State Bank of India vs. State of
 Kerala (supra), we reject such contention. 92. In view of the foregoing discussion, we have no hesitation
 to hold that the dues of a secured creditor (subject of course to
 CERSAI registration) and subject to proceedings under the I &
 B Code would rank superior to the dues of the relevant
 department of the State Government. ANSWER TO QUESTION (c) 93. There are more reasons than one for which we are inclined
 to answer the question in the affirmative. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 94. That the intention of the Legislature, at the first instance,
 has to be gathered from the language employed by it in the
 statute in question, is beyond any doubt. 95. Section 1(2) of the 2016 Amending Act states that the
 same shall come into force on such date as the Central
 Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
 appoint. Insofar as the date of coming into effect and operation
 of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act as inserted therein by the
 2016 Amending Act is concerned, perusal of section 2 of the
 2016 Amending Act would reveal that different dates were
 required to be appointed for different provisions of the 2016 Amending Act to take effect and make it operational. On 26 th
 December 2019, the Department of Financial Services in the
 Ministry of Finance, Government of India issued a notification
 appointing 24th January 2020 as the date on which sections 17 to 19 of the 2016 Amending Act would come into force. Section
 18 , which is relevant for the present purpose, was brought into
 force from 24th January 2020 and, thus, Chapter IV-A became
 operational with effect from that date. Surely, if the Parliament
 had intended that the provisions of Chapter IV-A were to be
 made applicable from a previous date, the notification would
 have said so. Therefore, on the face of it, the 2016 Amending
 Act has not been made applicable retrospectively but has taken
 effect from the date notified by the Central Government. 96. There is one other perspective from which the matter
 could be viewed. The Statement of Objects and Reasons as
 contained in the Bill for the 2016 Amending Act introduced in
 the Lok Sabha have been noted above. A reading thereof leads 77 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 to the inference that the amendment was proposed to bring
 about a substantive change in the law, inter alia, by (i)
 denuding secured creditors of their rights of enforcement of
 securities under Chapter III of the SARFAESI Act if security
 interest created in their favour had not been registered with the
 CERSAI; and (ii) granting 'priority' to the secured creditors over
 all other dues and taxes, after registration with the CERSAI
 except in cases where proceedings under the provisions of the
 I & B Code are pending. These changes were introduced for the
 first time "to suit changing credit landscape and augment ease
 of doing business", as appears from the Statement for the
 amendment. These substantial changes, remedial in nature,
 having been brought in force for the first time amount to
 substantive law and cannot, therefore, be given retrospective
 effect. 97. We may profitably refer to the decision of the Supreme
 Court reported in (1969) 1 SCC 609 ( Sukhram Singh vs.
 Harbheji ). There, in paragraph 12, law is laid down in the
 following words: 98. In its decision reported in (2011) 2 SCC 721 ( Executive
 Engineer Dhenkanal vs. N.C. Budharaj ), the Supreme Court
 has clarified that 'substantive law' is that part of the law which
 creates, defines and regulates rights in contrast to what is
 called adjective or remedial law which provides the method of
 enforcing rights. 99. Applying these tests to Chapter IV-A, coupled with the
 express provision in section 26D regulating the exercise of
 power by secured creditors by barring them to take recourse to Chapter III of the SARFAESI Act without the CERSAI
 registration, there could be little hesitation to hold that section
 26E of the SARFAESI Act would apply prospectively. 100. Pertinently, in the cases that we have in hand, the newly
 incorporated provisions cast certain mandatory duty and
 obligation on secured creditors. If they seek to invoke the
 provisions of Chapter III of the SARFAESI Act and enforce the
 security interest, the same needs to have a CERSAI
 registration. Such creditors would be entitled to seek 'priority' 79 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 in terms of section 26E only after the security interest is
 registered and other provisions of the SARFAESI Act are
 complied with. Provisions in Chapter IV-A cannot be construed
 in a manner so as to disturb, impair or divest the State of its
 accrued rights. Sections 26D and 26E of the SARFAESI Act no
 doubt begin with non-obstante clauses. However, such non-
 obstante clauses would override any law for the time being in
 force evincing a result contrary to or inconsistent with sections
 26D and section 26E but may not be so read so as to override
 and nullify an exercise of right by the relevant department of
 the State under any other law for the time being in force, and
 action taken in pursuance thereof, leading to accrual of some
 legal interest or benefit. 101. On the flip side, if the newly incorporated provisions
 casting a mandatory obligation on a secured creditor to register
 the security interest created in its favour to claim priority in
 payment is read to apply with retrospective effect, it could bring
 about at least one perceivable disastrous consequence. Actions
 taken under Chapter III of the SARFAESI Act including
 measures to take over possession of the secured asset prior to
 Chapter IV-A becoming operational, i.e., without CERSAI
 registration of the security interest sought to be enforced, could
 be challenged as ultra vires the SARFAESI Act itself. If such a
 challenge were to succeed, there could be sort of a cloudburst
 of complications. A reading that Chapter IV-A applies
 prospectively would, however, save all such exercises of
 enforcement of unregistered security interest, thereby not
 being liable to interdiction on the ground of absence of 80 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 registration of the security interest upon a challenge being
 thrown by a defaulting borrower. 102. We, thus, agree with the decisions in Bank of Baroda (supra) and ASREC (INDIA) Ltd. (supra) and answer the
 question by holding that the provisions of Chapter IV-A of the
 SARFAESI Act would have application prospectively from the
 date the same was brought into force, i.e., January 24 2020. ANSWER TO QUESTION (d) 103. We are left with no option but to answer this question in
 the negative based on settled principles of law. 104. An enlightening passage on how statutes are to be
 interpreted is found in the decision of the Supreme Court
 reported in (1987) 1 SCC 424 ( Reserve Bank of India vs.
 Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. ). The
 same reads as under: In the light of the above, a statute has to be construed after
 ascertaining the legislative intent and in the context and
 scheme of the enactment. 105. We have noticed the legislative intent behind enactment
 of both the SARFAESI Act and the RDDB Act hereinbefore. We,
 however, consider a recapitulation of the same. 106. First, although the end result of both the statutes, i.e., the
 RDDB Act and the SARFAESI Act is recovery of money, yet,
 while the process of recovery under the former enactment is
 entirely through the procedure laid down therein and is largely
 court driven, the process of recovery under the latter is
 essentially without court intervention. Nature of the two
 proceedings is, therefore, completely different. 107. In view of Reserve Bank of India (supra), any provision
 of a statute cannot be interpreted in a manner wholly unrelated
 to the scheme of the statute in which it appears. 108. Much has been argued on behalf of the secured creditors
 by referring to the non-obstante clause in section 31B of the
 RDDB Act. Before adverting our attention to such section, it
 would not be inapposite to consider how a statutory provision
 beginning with a non-obstante clause ought to be construed. 109. In the decision reported in AIR 1984 SC 1022 ( Union of
 India vs. G.M. Kokil ), a non-obstante clause has been held to 82 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 be a legislative device, which is usually employed to give
 overriding effect to certain provisions over some contrary
 provisions that may be found in the same enactment or in some
 other enactment, that is to say, to avoid the operation and
 effect of all contrary provisions. 110. The Supreme Court in its decision reported in AIR 1987
 SC 117 ( Chandavarkar Sita Ratna Rao vs. Ashalata S.
 Guram ), while considering the provisions in section 15A of the
 Bombay Rent, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act,
 1947, had the occasion to hold as follows: 111. One finds reiteration of the same legal position in the
 decision reported in (2005) 9 SCC 129 (State of Bihar & Ors. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 vs. Bihar Rajya M. S. E. S. K. K. Mahasangh). The Court
 held that: 112. The decision in Sidco Leathers Limited (supra),
 however, reveals a little shift in approach. The Supreme Court
 held that the impact of a non-obstante clause must be kept
 measured by the legislative policy and it has to be limited to
 the extent it is intended by Parliament and not beyond that. In
 other words, the non-obstante clause must be given effect to,
 to the extent Parliament intended and not beyond the same. 113. Back home, there is this decision of the Full Bench of this
 Court reported (2008) 6 Mah LJ 941 (FB) (Mohd. Riyazur
 Rehman Siddiqui vs Deputy Director of Health Services),
 where it has been held that the wide meaning of the non-
 obstante clause and the enacting words following it may not be
 curtailed when the use of wide language accords with the object
 of the Act. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 114. The text of section 31B of the RDDB, beginning with a
 non-obstante clause, has been noticed above. Also, bearing the
 principles laid down in the aforesaid authorities with regard to
 the effect or impact of a non-obstante clause, the conclusion is
 inescapable that section 31B cannot be pressed into service in
 all cases where a secured creditor seeks enforcement of a
 security interest by taking recourse to the SARFAESI Act . The
 non-obstante clause in section 31B would kick in should there
 be proceedings before the DRT and in furtherance of orders
 passed therein, a process is initiated for recovery of the dues
 of the secured creditor. We are inclined to be restrictive in our
 view that in such cases only, where the proceedings originate
 in the DRT under the RDDB Act, would the non-obstante clause
 in section 31B override all other provisions whereunder interest
 in respect of the same property may have been created in
 favour of other persons or authorities and the rights of the
 secured creditor to realize secured debts shall have priority and
 be paid in priority. Thus, such provision (section 31B) cannot
 be invoked or applied to a sale under the SARFAESI Act , which
 is a sale by the secured creditor without court intervention. The
 contention of Mr. Narula, resting on Transcore (supra), is that
 action under the RDDB Act can be abandoned and recourse
 taken to the SARFAESI Act and, therefore, the converse is also
 permissible. It is indeed permissible for a secured creditor to
 abandon steps taken by it under Chapter III of the SARFAESI
 Act because of any legal disability to carry the action forward
 and to initiate original proceedings under the RDDB Act for
 recovery of dues, but Mr. Narula's contention would not 85 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 commend further acceptability for us to hold that whenever a
 secured creditor is faced with the disability posed by sections
 26D and 26E of the SARFAESI Act, it can overcome the same
 by invoking section 31B of the RDDB Act. 115. Secondly, it is well settled that where a statute provides
 for a thing to be done in a particular manner, then it has either
 to be done in that manner or not at all. We may draw useful
 guidance from the relevant passage in the decision reported in
 (2014) 2 SCC 401 ( J. Jayalalithaa v. State of Karnataka )
 where the Court applied the maxim expressio unius est exclusio
 alterius and held: 116. Sections 26D and 26E of the SARFAESI Act, read together,
 in effect provide a special manner in which a secured creditor
 may enforce its security interest in supersession of others,
 without the intervention of courts. That special manner, inter
 alia, includes a prior CERSAI registration. In such view of the
 matter, enforcement of security interest under the SARFAESI
 Act by any other method is, if not expressly, impliedly barred. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 The provision of section 31B of RDDB Act cannot be invoked to
 undo the disability that is expressly imposed by section 26D of
 the SARFAESI Act, more so when both these provisions have
 been brought on the respective statute books by the same 2016 Amending Act (notwithstanding that the two sections were
 made operative on different dates). 117. Thirdly, we need to remember that both the enactments,
 i.e., the RDDB Act and the SARFAESI Act, are special
 enactments laying down special but separate schemes for
 recovery of money from defaulting borrowers. One cannot be
 permitted to take a part of a special scheme and apply it to a
 separate special scheme. It could not have been the legislative
 intent that a secured creditor, faced with the disability arising
 out of an absence of a CERSAI registration after having illegally
 taken recourse to Chapter III of the SARFAESI Act , would be
 permitted to shift track and claim a priority in payment of dues
 relying on section 31B of the RDDB Act. If such a course were
 allowed, serious consequences arise. First, the illegal action of
 taking possession of the second asset without the intervention
 of the court could get legalized, which would run counter to the
 schemes for recovery of debts envisaged in the SARFAESI Act as well as the RDDB Act. Secondly the entire object of
 introduction of Chapter IV-A in the SARFAESI Act would get
 frustrated and be rendered futile. 118. That apart, a provision similar to that of section 31B of
 the RDDB Act is already there in the SARFAESI Act, 2002 in the
 form of section 26E can hardly escape notice. The Parliament
 definitely did not intend to render the provisions of section 26D 87 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 otiose and superfluous by inserting section 26E immediately
 after section 26D in the same chapter by the same Amending
 Act . Both were intended to be and have to be read together;
 both have to be respected and given effect to, in the context of
 the situation that may be obtaining at the material point of
 time. In such view of the matter, relying on a similar provision
 of a different statute in order to undo the effect of another
 statute would amount to doing exactly that, which the other
 statute does not permit. 119. Section 26D , or for that matter, the entirety of Chapter
 IV-A, we repeat, was introduced in the SARFAESI Act with a
 purpose. The said chapter was introduced to address the
 myriad problems that arose post equitable mortgage that
 tricked and troubled both general people and the bankers alike
 (as exemplified hereinabove). Such purpose cannot be lost
 sight of and should not be rendered insignificant. The need of
 purposive interpretation has always been stressed by the
 Supreme Court and all the High Courts across the country.
 Placing reliance on section 31B of the RDDB Act and drawing
 conclusions in favour of the secured creditors in respect of
 security interest sought to be enforced under the SARFAESI Act would be against the very grain of sections 26D and 26E and
 as such, such an interpretation should be avoided. 120. The final aspect, which needs to be adverted to, is with
 regard to a comparative study of the words used in sections
 31B and 26E . While section 26E , inter alia, ordains that "the
 debts due to any secured creditor shall be paid in priority over
 all other debts", the words used in section 31B though resemble 88 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD section 26E are not a mirror image of the latter. Section 31B
 ordains that "the rights of secured creditors to realise secured
 debts due and payable to them by sale of assets over which
 security interest is created, shall have priority and shall be paid
 in priority over all other debts" (underlining ours). Section 26E neither refers to a right of the secured creditor nor to debts
 "due and payable". This is because in an action under Chapter
 III of the SARFAESI Act , which culminates in sale of a secured
 asset, there may not be intervention by courts in all cases. A
 secured creditor's statutory right to enforce a security interest
 under the SARFAESI Act is normally not interfered till such time
 possession of the secured asset ~ physical or symbolic ~ is
 taken. The debt due to the secured creditor also does not
 invariably become payable upon a determination by the DRT
 under section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. If a borrower chooses
 not to approach the DRT, the second creditor may set the
 process in motion by initiating action under rule 8 of the 2002
 Rules. However, the situation is different in an action under
 section 19 of the RDDB Act. The secured creditor acquires a
 right to be paid in priority only after a determination by the DRT
 and that is indeed a significant step in claiming and having a
 priority; it is then that the secured debt becomes due and
 payable. Till such time a determination is not made by the DRT,
 there is neither any question of right being exercised by the
 secured creditor nor any sum becoming payable to it. 121. In State Bank of India vs State of Maharashtra (supra), the Division Bench held that the contention was largely
 irrelevant as section 31B of the RDDB Act alone was sufficient 89 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 to accord priority to secured creditors. Learned counsel for the
 secured creditors have heavily relied on the same. 122. For the foregoing reasons, we regret our inability to agree
 with such decision. 123. Our attention was also drawn to the decision in Kalupur
 Commercial Cooperative Bank (supra), in particular
 paragraph 57 which reads as follows: 124. It is settled law, as it appears from Reserve Bank of
 India (supra), that interpretation of any provision must
 depend on its text as well as the context. 125. While interpreting provisions of the SARFAESI Act , the
 context in which such provisions were enacted must be 90 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 unfailingly noticed. While placing reliance on similar provisions
 of a different statute to decipher the real legislative intent
 behind a certain provision of a given statute may be
 permissible in certain cases where the context of both the
 statutes match, but such an exercise would surely not be
 permissible if the contexts vary. Here, section 31B of the RDDB
 Act has to be seen in the context of the original proceedings
 instituted before the DRT and a determination having been
 obtained from the DRT in such proceedings. The SARFAESI Act being a statute which permits lenders to take possession of
 secured assets without judicial intervention, a greater degree
 of protection against arbitrary action by lenders and a
 corresponding higher standard of care to be taken by such
 lenders has now been prescribed. This position, emerging from section 26D of the SARFAESI Act, underscores the
 importance of CERSAI registration of security interest and
 makes the legislative intent behind promoting CERSAI
 registration of security interest more conspicuous than the
 other provisions. We have not been shown any principle of
 interpretation following which the consequences of violation of
 a mandatory provision of any given special statute may be
 avoided by relying on a different provision of another special
 statute. Placing reliance on section 31B to displace the
 mandate of section 26D would amount to outlawing section 26D without holding it ultra vires. 126. One other aspect which strongly points to keenness of the
 Legislature to ensure CERSAI registration is this. The disabling
 provision under section 26D and the enabling provision under 91 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD section 26E , as earlier noticed, begin with non-obstante
 clauses. Thus, while those secured creditors who register the
 security interest can legitimately claim 'priority' whereas those
 who do not, are denuded of any power to enforce the security
 interest by taking recourse to Chapter III of the SARFAESI Act .
 A secured creditor who fails to register the secured asset in
 terms of the provisions of section 26B of the SARFAESI Act
 with the CERSAI and faces the disability to obtain the benefit
 that section 26E envisages, cannot be rewarded by relieving it
 of the statutory obligation created on it to get such registration
 by allowing it the benefit envisaged by section 31B of the RDDB
 Act. If it is so done, such secured creditor would be placed in a
 happy or more comfortable position than a secured creditor
 who obeys the command of law and applies for registration of
 the secured asset. Adherence to and obedience of the law
 should be obvious and necessary in a system governed by the
 rule of law. 127. These important aspects do not appear to have been
 brought to the attention of the Bench deciding Kalupur
 Commercial Cooperative Bank (supra) and, therefore, we
 express our doubt with what has been laid down in paragraph
 57 thereof. 128. In view of the foregoing discussions, we agree with
 learned counsel for the State/respondents and answer the
 question by holding that (a) a secured creditor, finding that it is disabled from
 obtaining the benefit of 'priority' in terms of section 92 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 26E of the SARFAESI Act for want of CERSAI
 registration, cannot fall back on section 31B of the
 RDDB Act to claim 'priority'; (b) the overwhelming factor of determination of a lis by
 the DRT has to be given its due worth and hence,
 the benefit of 'priority' that section 31B envisages is
 for a secured creditor who institutes proceedings
 under the RDDB Act and is successful in having an
 interim or final determination in its favour that a
 sum is due and payable (in section 31B) as
 distinguished from the debts due (in section 26E ). (c) section 31B of the RDDB Act being a substantive
 provision, it cannot be invoked by a secured creditor
 faced with the disability posed by section 26E of the
 SARFAESI Act; and (d) without recourse having been taken to the
 procedure envisaged in the RDDB Act for recovery
 of its dues and without there being a determination
 of its claim by the DRT to the effect that any sum
 due from the borrower is payable to it, a secured
 creditor is not entitled to invoke the provisions of
 section 31B. ANSWER TO QEUSTION (e) 129. The entire scheme of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act ,
 as introduced by the Amending Act of 2016, leaves no manner
 of doubt that the object for its introduction is salutary. We have, 93 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 in fact, discussed the noble objects that introduction of Chapter
 IV-A of the SARFAESI Act intends to achieve. The drastic power
 made available to a secured creditor by provisions contained in section 13 and the other provisions of the SARFAESI Act to
 dispossess the borrower/guarantor from the secured asset
 without intervention of Courts but necessarily upon compliance
 with the procedural safeguards laid down therefor has
 seemingly been arrested to a limited extent by incorporation of section 26D by the 2016 Amending Act . Section 26D , which also
 opens with a non-obstante clause, prohibits a secured creditor
 from exercising the rights for enforcement of security interest
 conferred by Chapter III, unless the secured interest created in
 its favour by the borrower has been registered with the CERSAI.
 Not only therefore registration with the CERSAI has been made
 a mandatory pre-condition for invocation of the provisions
 contained in Chapter III of the SARFAESI Act , the provisions
 relating to debts that are due to any secured creditor being
 payable to such creditor in priority over all other debts and
 revenue, taxes etc. is available to be invoked only after the
 registration of security interest. This being the text of section
 26E , which is to be read in the context in which it is set, leads
 to the irresistible and inevitable conclusion that unless the
 security interest is registered, neither can the borrower seek
 enforcement invoking the provisions of Chapter III of the
 SARFAESI Act nor does the question of priority in payment
 would arise without such registration. 130. As has been noticed above, ASREC (India) Ltd. (supra)
 rejected the contention that section 26E of the SARFAESI Act 94 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 cannot be invoked unless the security interest were registered
 with the CERSAI. The Division Bench, in the process of rejecting
 the said contention, referred to what according to it were
 previous decisions rendered by 3 (three) Division Benches of
 various High Courts and a decision of the Full Bench of the
 Madras High Court, and observed that its rejection of such a
 contention followed from all such decisions. Although the
 decisions in G. M. G. Engineers and Contractor Pvt. Ltd.
 (supra) and Bank of Baroda (supra) are not opinions of
 Division Benches, nothing really turns on the bench strength. We have failed to find any discussion in any of such 4 (four)
 decisions rejecting a contention like the one under
 consideration in ASREC (India) Ltd. (supra). The Full Bench
 of the Madras High Court in Assistant Commissioner (CT )
 (supra) did not have the occasion to consider the point. Even
 the Division Bench decision of the Gujarat High Court in Kalupur Commercial Cooperative Bank (supra) did not
 strictly dwell on such point. Also, the point under consideration
 did not arise in G. M. G. Engineers and Contractor Pvt. Ltd.
 (supra) and in Bank of Baroda (supra) at all. Interestingly,
 the Division Bench itself noted in paragraph 20 of the decision
 in ASREC (India) Ltd. (supra) that the said point had not been
 raised before any of the other High Courts. In the setting of
 such a factual position, it seems to us that rejection of the
 contention, as if law had been declared in the 4 (four) opinions
 of the High Courts, occasioned either through an oversight or a
 misreading of the said decisions. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 131. In our considered opinion, on the face of the express
 provisions in sections 26D and 26E of the SARFAESI Act and in
 the absence of any discussion on the object of introduction of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act by the Division Bench in
 ASREC (India) Ltd. (supra), we are constrained to hold that
 a law has been declared which runs clearly contrary to the
 statutory mandate and, therefore, paragraph 21 of such
 decision does not represent the correct position of law. 132. The other Division Bench in State Bank of India vs.
 State of Maharashtra (supra) may not have considered sections 26D and 26E of the SARFAESI Act in such great depth
 in the absence of proper assistance from the parties while
 holding that even if the secured creditor does not register the
 mortgage under section 26D of the SARFAESI Act, such alleged
 non-registration, in view of the Division Bench's discussion on
 section 31B of the RDDB Act, would not affect the legal position
 on the issue of priority. 133. We have no hesitation to hold that the views expressed
 by the Division Benches in ASREC (India) Ltd. (supra) and State Bank of India (supra), as discussed above, on the
 question under consideration are not the correct exposition of
 law and, to that extent, stand overruled. Answer to question (f) 134. Much has been argued by the petitioners by referring to
 the decision in Assistant Commissioner (CT ) (supra) where
 it was held that section 31B of the RDDB Act would govern
 rights even in respect of a pending lis. There is not much 96 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 elaboration by assigning any reason in support of the said
 observation. That apart, it bears a mention that the parties
 have brought to our notice that the said decision has been
 carried in appeal to the Supreme Court and an order directing
 maintenance of status quo has been passed. Hence, with due
 respect to the Full Bench of the Madras High Court, we prefer
 to assign our own reasons for the conclusions. 135. A decision necessarily has to be rendered by us bearing
 in mind the State legislations under consideration vis-à-vis the
 RDDB Act and the SARFAESI Act for the same to be applicable
 in this State; hence, it would be appropriate to decide when
 exercise of the right by the department of the State can be said
 to be complete so as to avoid the rigours of section 31B and
 section 26E, as the case may be. 136. We have noted what section 37 of the MVAT Act is all
 about. Section 37 in sub-section (1) provides for the creation
 of first charge on the property with respect to a tax or sum
 payable thereunder. Sub-section (2) provides that the said first
 charge shall be deemed to have been created upon the expiry
 of the period specified in sub-section (4) of section 32 .
 Therefore, the charge attaches to the property of the dealer
 from the time it comes into effect, i.e., from the time the tax
 becomes payable under section 32(4) of the Act. 137. Let us now take a look at sub-section (4) of section 32 of
 the MVAT Act. It reads: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD (ii) The amount of tax which it becomes necessary to pay
 on account of the reduction in set-off because of any
 contingency specified in the rules, shall be paid at the time
 prescribed for making payment of tax for the period in
 which such contingency occurs. (b) (i) The amount of tax due as per any order passed
 under any provision of this Act, for any period, less any
 sum already paid in respect of the said period; and (ii) the amount of interest or penalty or both, if any, levied
 under any provision of this Act; and (iii) the sum, if any, forfeited and the amount of fine, if
 any, imposed under the Act or rules; and (iv) the amount of tax, penalty and interest demanded
 in the context of excess availment of incentives or
 availment of incentives not due; and (v) any other amount due under this Act,
 shall be paid by the person or dealer or the person liable
 therefor into the Government treasury within thirty days
 from the date of service of the notice issued by the
 Commissioner in respect thereof: 138. Thus, where a return is filed but the admitted tax has not
 been paid, the charge is created on the date of such filing as
 the tax is payable forthwith under section 32(4)(a)(i) . In other
 cases, the tax, penalty or interest is payable within 30 days
 from the date of notice [ section 32(4)(b)(i) -(v)]. Therefore,
 the charge would crystallize on the expiry of 30 days in respect
 of such amounts. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 139. However, mere creation of charge is not enough. The
 expression 'charge' does not appear to have been defined in
 the MVAT Act . Nonetheless, this concept is well known in
 property law and we may draw guidance from section 100 of
 the ToP Act, where 'charge' is defined as follows: (emphasis ours) 140. The section itself in unambiguous terms indicates that a
 charge may not be enforced against a transferee if he did not
 have any notice of the same, unless by law the requirement of
 such notice has been waived. This position seems to be the
 accepted position in law. 141. We have not been shown any law that exempts the
 requirement of notice of the charge for its enforcement against
 a transferee who had no notice of the same. 142. It would also be necessary to keep in mind what section
 3 of the ToP Act, which is the interpretation clause, says as to 99 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 when a person can be said to have notice. It is provided therein
 as follows: Explanation II.--Any person acquiring any
 immovable property or any share or interest in any such
 property shall be deemed to have notice of the title, if
 any, of any person who is for the time being in actual
 possession thereof. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 Explanation III.--A person shall be deemed to have
 had notice of any fact if his agent acquires notice thereof
 whilst acting on his behalf in the course of business to
 which that fact is material: section (4), if it remains unpaid, be recoverable as if it is
 a sum demanded under section 32 and accordingly any
 notice served under this section shall be deemed for the
 purposes of this Act to be a notice served under section
 32 and the unpaid amounts shall be recoverable as
 arrears of land revenue." Therefore, a notice under section 32 to the person from whom
 tax is due would be the first step towards recovery of unpaid
 amounts as arrears of land revenue. 144. It is further noticed that section 34 of the MVAT Act
 confers powers under the MLR Code on the Sales Tax
 Authorities. It reads: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD (i) the Commissioner of Sales Tax shall have and exercise
 all the powers and perform all the duties of the
 Commissioner under the Maharashtra Land Revenue
 Code, 1966 (Mah. XLI of 1966); (ii) the Additional Commissioner of Sales Tax shall have
 and exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of
 the Additional Commissioner under the said Code; (iii) the Joint Commissioner of Sales Tax shall have and
 exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the
 Collector under the said Code; (iv) the Senior Deputy Commissioner and the Deputy
 Commissioner of Sales Tax shall have and exercise all the
 powers (except the powers of confirmation of sale and
 arrest and confinement of a defaulter in a civil jail) and
 perform, all the duties of the Assistant or Deputy Collector
 under the said Code; (v) the Assistant Commissioner and the Sales Tax Officer
 shall have and exercise all the powers (except the powers
 of confirmation of sale and arrest and confinement of a
 defaulter in a civil jail) and perform all the duties of the
 Tahsildar under the said Code. (2) Every notice issued or order passed in exercise of the
 powers conferred by sub-section (1) shall, for the
 purposes of sections 24 , 25 , 26 , 27 and 85 be deemed to
 be a notice issued or an order passed under the said Act. The sections referred to in section 34(2) of the MVAT Act are
 preceding provisions therein, with section 24 providing for
 rectification of mistakes, section 25 providing for review, section 26 providing a right of appeal to the Tribunal and section 27 providing a right of appeal to this Court. 145. In this context, it is relevant to note that section 72 of the
 MLR Code provides that land revenue is to be a
 paramount charge on land. The provisions contained in
 sections 173 to 184 and 191 to 221 of the MLR Code 102 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 encapsulate the procedure for recovery of unpaid amounts as
 arrears of land revenue. Section 265 of the MLR Code (which is
 applicable only within the city of Bombay) confers
 precedence on the arrears of land revenue due on any land
 under the relevant chapter. 146. The exhaustive procedure that the MLR Code conceives
 relating to recovery of unpaid amounts as arrears of land
 revenue need not be examined in any great detail here. We
 may only refer to the decision of the Division Bench reported in
 2004 SCC OnLine Bom 1247 ( Satish Arjun Surve vs. State
 of Maharashtra ), where the Court has noted the same. 147. However, what appears to be clear is that if there be a
 default and the defaulter does not pay what he owes to the
 relevant department of the Government, power is available
 under rule 17 of the Maharashtra Realization of Land Revenue
 Rules, 1967 (hereafter 'MRLR Rules', for short), framed under
 section 328 read with Chapter XI of the MLR Code, for the
 Tehsildar, on receipt of a requisition from such department, to
 proceed in accordance with the MLR Code and the 1967 Rules
 and cause the defaulter's immovable property to be attached
 and sold. Necessarily, prior to effecting a sale, a proclamation
 has to be made in the manner ordained. 148. Sub-section (4) of section 20B of the SARFAESI Act, which
 we have noticed above, ordains that every authority or officer
 of the Central Government or any State Government or local
 authority, entrusted with the function of recovery of tax or
 other Government dues and for issuing any order for
 attachment of any property of any person liable to pay the tax 103 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 or Government dues, shall file with the Central Registry such
 attachment order with particulars of the assessee and details
 of tax or other Government dues from such date as may be
 notified by the Central Government, in such form and manner
 as may be prescribed. 149. Although the said provision demands compliance by the
 Central Government, any State Government and any local
 authority entrusted with recovery of tax to file with the
 Central Registry any attachment order issued by it, avoidance
 of such compliance was attempted by referring to the fact that
 the form and manner of filing attachment orders have not yet
 been prescribed by rules framed under the SARFAESI Act and,
 therefore, sub-section (4) has still not been made operative. 150. The contention that rules are yet to be framed for
 making sub-section (4) of section 20B operational is wholly
 incorrect. By a notification dated 24th January 2020 issued by
 the Department of Financial Services in the Ministry of
 Finance, Govt. of India, published in the Gazette of India of
 even date, the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial
 Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (Central Registry)
 (Amendment) Rules, 2020 were duly notified whereby
 amendments were incorporated in the Securitisation and
 Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
 Interest (Central Registry) Rules, 2011 (hereafter '2011 Rules',
 for short). In view of the amendments that have now been
 incorporated in the 2011 Rules with effect from the date Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act was made effective and
 enforceable, the relevant department of the State 104 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 Government despite attachment orders being issued by the
 competent authority can only avoid compliance of sub-section
 (4) of section 26B at its own peril. We hold that attachment
 orders issued post 24th January 2020, if not filed with the
 Central Registry, any department of the Government to whom
 a person owes money on account of unpaid tax has to wait till
 the secured creditor by sale of the immovable property being
 the secured asset mops up its secured dues. 151. However, there could be attachments orders which might
 have been issued much prior to giving effect to the 2011 Rules,
 as amended. In respect of such orders of attachment, we
 consider it appropriate to express our views. 152. The procedure to be followed in terms of the CPC when an
 immovable property is put up for auction sale to satisfy a
 decree of the court is to be found in Order XXI Rules 54 and 66 of the CPC . It is mandatory for the court executing the
 decree, to comply with the following stages before such
 property is sold in execution of a particular decree: At each stage of the execution of the decree, when a property
 is sold, it is mandatory that notice shall be served upon the
 person whose property is being sold in execution of the
 decree, and any property which is sold, without notice to the
 person whose property is being sold, is a nullity and all
 actions pursuant thereto are liable to be struck down/quashed. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 However, the proceedings before us do not concern execution
 of any decree. 153. In these proceedings we are as much concerned with
 proclamation itself as much with attachment. Insofar as
 recovery pursuant to the MLR Code is concerned, not only the
 provisions contained therein but also the provisions contained
 in the 1967 Rules are to be complied with. Simply ordering an
 attachment is not enough; a proclamation has to be issued in
 the prescribed form and such proclamation must be made
 public by beating of drum and such other mode as specified in
 section 192 of the MLR Code and rule 11(2) of the 1967 Rules
 before the property attached is sold. 154. We are of the considered opinion, on facts and in the
 circumstances, that unless attachment of the defaulter's
 immovable property is ordered in the manner ordained by the
 MLR Code and as prescribed by the MRLR Rules and due
 proclamation thereof is made, even the creation of charge on
 such immovable property may not be of any real significance,
 not to speak of demonstrating with reference to evidence that
 the transferee had actual or constructive notice of such charge.
 If there has been an attachment and a proclamation thereof
 has been made according to law prior to 24 th January 2020 or
 1st September 2016, i.e., the dates on which Chapter IV-A of
 the SARFAESI Act and section 31B of the RDDB Act,
 respectively, were enforced, the department may claim that its
 dues be paid first notwithstanding the secured dues of the
 secured creditors; but in the absence of an order of
 attachment being made public in a manner known to law, i.e., 106 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 by a proclamation, once Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act or
 section 31B, as the case may be, has been enforced, the dues
 of the secured creditor surely would have 'priority'. In other
 words, if the immovable property of the defaulter is shown to
 have been attached in accordance with law prior to Chapter IV-
 A of the SARFAESI Act , or for that matter section 31B of the
 RDDB Act, being enforced, and such attachment is followed
 by a proclamation according to law, the 'priority' accorded by section 26E of the former and section 31B of the latter would
 not get attracted. ANSWER TO QUESTION (g) 155. To answer this question, we need to take note of some
 provisions of the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002
 (hereafter '2002' Rules, for short). However, it must be borne
 in mind that while a secured creditor is concerned only with sale
 of the immovable property, being the secured asset, and no
 other property of the defaulting borrower, the concern of the
 department need not necessarily be confined only to the
 secured asset but could well spill over and any other asset of
 the defaulter in payment of State's dues could be put up for
 sale to realize such dues in terms of the MLR Code and the 1967
 Rules. 156. The procedure for 'sale of an immovable secured asset'
 and 'time of sale, issue of sale certificate and delivery of
 possession', consequent upon measures taken by a secured
 creditor under sub-section (4) of section 13 of the SARFAESI 107 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 Act, have been laid down in rules 8 and 9, respectively, of the
 2002 Rules. 157. Provisions contained in sub-rule (7) of rule 8 of the 2002
 Rules read thus: Sub-rules (7), (8) and (9) of rule 9 of the 2002 Rules lay down
 that: rule (7) above." 158. A conjoint reading of the aforesaid rules admits of no
 doubt that the authorized officer while putting up an immovable
 property, i.e., the secured asset, for sale, is under a duty to
 notify, inter alia, the details of the encumbrances (in respect of
 such property that is proposed to be sold) which are known to
 the secured creditor as well as to require the purchaser to
 deposit money to discharge the encumbrances. 159. The Supreme Court in its decision in AI Champdany
 Industries Ltd. (supra) after considering the definition of
 'encumbrance' in several law dictionaries, held that an
 'encumbrance' "must be capable of being found out either on
 inspection of the land or the office of the Registrar or a statutory
 authority. A charge, burden or any other thing which impairs
 the use of the land or depreciates in its value may be a
 mortgage or a deed of trust or a lien or an easement.
 Encumbrance, thus must be a charge on the property. If by 109 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 reason of the statute no such burden on the title which
 diminishes the value of the land is created, it shall not
 constitute any encumbrance". 160. Till 24th January 2020, it may not have been possible for
 a secured creditor to know precisely all encumbrances in
 respect of the immovable property. With the insertion of section
 26B in the SARFAESI Act read with the 2011 Rules, a secured
 creditor is expected to know some of such encumbrances if at
 all compliance of section 26B is resorted to by the Central
 Government, any State Government or a local authority, to
 whom money is owed by the defaulter being an owner of the
 property. Such a statutory mechanism for knowing the
 encumbrances in respect of the immovable property being put
 up for sale by auction not being available before 24 th January
 2020, the authorized officers were found to play it safe by
 inserting the "as is where is, whatever there is basis" clause in
 the sale advertisement. Once such clause is inserted in the
 advertisement and the prospective purchaser upon bidding in
 the auction emerges as the highest bidder, normally such
 purchaser cannot insist upon issuance of sale certificate without
 clearing the liability of meeting other dues in relation to such
 property. This is because he participates in the auction and
 bids, with his eyes open, that the sale would be on "as is where
 is, whatever there is basis". Having so participated, the
 prospective purchaser cannot wriggle out of the consequences
 and claim that the other dues are not payable by him if he
 cannot disprove constructive notice of the charge created on
 the property put up for auction sale. If indeed the department 110 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 of the Government fails to act in terms of section 26B of the
 SARFAESI Act read with the 2011 Rules, consequences are
 bound to follow which have to be accepted by such department. 161. We, therefore, answer this question by observing that
 notwithstanding the duty of the authorized officer to indicate in
 the sale advertisement inviting bids the encumbrance(s)
 attached to the immovable property, i.e., the secured asset, as
 known to the secured creditor, if at all any detail in regard to
 such encumbrance(s) is not indicated but the sale is expressly
 made on "as is where is, whatever there is basis", the
 transferee shall be duty bound to deposit money for discharge
 of the encumbrance(s) provided, of course, that such liability
 may be overcome if he is in a position to disprove the claim of
 the department that he had no constructive notice of the
 charge, far less actual notice. 162. Having answered the substantial questions of law, we now
 proceed to decide the individual writ petitions. WRIT PETITION NO.436 OF 2021
 AND
 INTERIM APPLICATION NO.868 OF 2022 163. Petitioner, Fullerton India Credit Company Ltd., is a non-
 banking finance company notified under the SARFAESI Act .
 Petitioner had advanced a loan of Rs.9,06,85,020/- vide
 sanction Letter dated 30th July, 2014 to the respondents 1 to 4,
 the borrowers. The loan was secured by a mortgage of a duplex
 flat, bearing no.12/C, 12th and 13th floors, Cenced Apartment, 111 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 318, Union Park, Pali Hill Road, Dr. Ambedkar Marg, Khar (W),
 Mumbai - 400 052 ('the secured asset'), registered on 30th
 August 2014. 164. As the borrowers committed default in repayment, the
 account was declared a non-performing asset (NPA) and a
 notice under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act came to be
 issued on 22nd August, 2016. When the petitioner moved the
 learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Mumbai under section
 14 of the SARFAESI Act, for possession of the secured assets,
 it transpired that an Execution Application No.765 of 2015 to
 execute an arbitral award dated 6th November 2014 against the
 respondent no.2 was filed in this Court. 165. Petitioner moved Chamber Summons No.993 of 2017 in
 Execution Application No.765 of 2015. This Court by an order
 dated 12th February 2018 ordered inter alia raising of the
 attachment on the secured asset and delivery of possession of
 the secured asset to the petitioner by the Court Receiver, who
 had been put in possession of the secured asset in the said
 execution proceedings. On 15th December 2018 after recording
 that the Court Receiver had delivered possession of the secured
 asset to the petitioner, the Chamber Summons came to be
 disposed of. 166. Petitioner published an e-auction notice dated 28th
 February 2018 to sell the secured asset. On 9 th March 2018,
 the respondent no.6 addressed a communication to the
 respondent no.5 Society contending inter alia that M/s. Tornado
 Motors Private Limited, respondent no.1, was in arrears of
 Rs.5,49,68,048/- to the Sales Tax Department for the period 112 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 1st April 2011 to 31st December 2014 and thus, the respondent
 no.5 shall not permit the transfer of the secured asset without
 no objection certificate of the Sales Tax Department. 167. Petitioner has invoked the writ jurisdiction as the said
 communication operates as a clog on the rights of the secured
 creditor to enforce the security interest. 168. In the affidavit in reply on behalf of the respondents 6 to
 9, the action is sought to be justified on the ground that the
 secured asset stands in the name of the respondent no.2, the
 director of the respondent no.1, and under section 44(6) of the
 MVAT Act the directors are jointly and severally liable to pay
 the tax dues. A notice was issued to the directors on 15 th
 January 2019 calling upon them to show cause as to why action
 under section 44(6) of the MVAT Act should not be initiated. As
 none appeared to show cause, an order came to be passed on
 30th January 2019 holding the respondents 2 and 3, the
 directors of the respondent no.1, jointly and severally liable to
 pay the sales tax dues of the respondent no.1. 169. It would be contextually relevant to note that the
 petitioner had registered the security interest over the secured
 asset with the Central Registry on 17th February 2015. A copy
 of the search report evidencing registration in CERSAI portal
 came to be filed along with the additional affidavit dated 23rd
 November, 2021. 170. Evidently, the respondent no.1, the dealer is not the
 owner of the secured asset. Respondents 6 to 9 professed to
 proceed against the secured asset by resorting to the special 113 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 provision contained in section 44(6) of the MVAT Act. Section
 44(6) of the MVAT Act, reads as under: 171. The aforesaid provision, on its plain reading, indicates
 that in the event the tax or other amount recoverable under the MVAT Act cannot be recovered from a private company, then its
 directors shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of
 the dues, unless they are able to demonstrate that such non-
 recovery cannot be attributed to any gross neglect,
 misfeasance or breach of duty on their part in the management
 of the affairs of the said company. This provision enables the
 Sales Tax Department to proceed against the directors of a
 private company, in case of non-recovery, and casts burden on
 the directors to show that the non-recovery is not attributable
 to their acts or conduct. 172. In the case at hand, the material shows that the
 respondent no.6 initially gave a notice on 15th January 2019
 calling upon the respondents 2 and 3 to show cause and,
 thereafter, by an order dated 30th January 2019 held the 114 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 respondents 2 and 3 jointly and severally liable to pay the dues.
 Interestingly, even before such determination, the respondent
 no.6 had addressed the impugned communication dated 9 th
 March 2018 to the respondent no.5 prohibiting the transfer of
 the secured asset without permission of the Sales Tax
 Department. 173. If the law which we have declared in answer to question
 no.(f) (supra) is applied to the aforesaid facts, it becomes
 abundantly clear that consequent to the registration of the
 security interest on 17th February, 2015, the right of the
 petitioner as a secured creditor to be paid in priority crystalized
 on 24th January 2020, the day Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI
 Act was brought into force. 174. Conversely, there is no material to show that the secured
 asset was attached in accordance with law and the said
 attachment was followed by proclamation, prior to section 26E of the SARFAESI Act being enforced, thereby denuding the
 secured creditor of the preferential right under section 26E . 175. To sum up, the respondent no.6 as of date of the
 enforcement of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act was content
 with determination of the liability of the directors of the
 respondent no.1 and no action to enforce the liability so as to
 dislodge the superior claim of the secured creditor was taken. 176. We are thus inclined to allow the writ petition with the
 following orders: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD (b) It is further declared that the order dated 30th January
 2019 passed under section 44(6) of MVAT Act by the
 respondent no.6 against the respondents 2 and 3 does not
 constitute an embargo on the right of the petitioner to enforce
 the security interest in accordance with the provisions of the SARFAESI Act and the Rules. (c) Interim Application No.868 of 2022 also stands disposed
 of. WRIT PETITION NO.2336 OF 2021 177. Petitioner is the purchaser of an immovable property
 situated at Survey No.379/1, admeasuring 4.21 hectares at
 Village Abitghar, Taluka Wada, Dist. Palghar (the secured asset)
 in an auction sale held by the respondent no.7 Bank, on 11th
 January 2021. Respondent No.7 had created security interest
 therein over the secured asset for the financial facilities
 extended to M/s. Indo Bonito Multinational Ltd. (in liquidation)
 in respect whereof the Official Liquidator has been appointed. 178. After the confirmation of the sale, the respondent no.7
 issued a sale certificate in favour of the petitioner on 25th
 January 2021 and, thereupon, the petitioner approached the
 Collector of Stamps and Joint District Registrar, Palghar and the
 Sub-Registrar of Assurances, Wada, respondents 2 and 3,
 respectively, to adjudicate the stamp duty on the said sale
 certificate and to register the same. 179. Respondent No.2 refused to adjudicate the stamp duty on
 the count that the Tax Recovery Officer (15), respondent no.1,
 had attached the secured asset for non-payment of the income
 tax dues. It further transpired that the purported charge of the 116 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 respondent no.1 was entered in the record of rights pertaining
 to the secured asset vide mutation entry no.1211, certified on
 20th March 2020. Hence, this writ petition. 180. An affidavit in reply is filed by the Tahasildar, Tal. Wada,
 respondent no.4. The action of the respondents 4 and 5 was
 stated to be in conformity with the order passed by the Income
 Tax authority prohibiting transfer of the secured asset. 181. It would be necessary to note that the petitioner's
 assertion that he had addressed a letter to the Principal
 Commissioner, Income Tax (15), requesting the withdrawal of
 the recovery certificate No. ITCP-1 dated 11th January 2016 for
 AY 2012-13 enforced through Form No. ITCP-16 dated 24th
 December 2018 and there was no response thereto, is
 uncontroverted. 182. Consistent with the view which we have recorded, the
 primary question would be whether the security interest has
 been duly registered with CERSAI to reap the benefit of priority
 in payment envisaged by section 26E of the SARFAESI Act. 183. Petitioner has filed an additional Affidavit dated 24 th
 November 2021. A copy of the search report annexed thereto
 indicates that the security interest was registered with CERSAI
 on 25th October 2017. The said registration would enure to the
 benefit of the secured creditor the moment Chapter IV-A of the
 SARFAESI Act was brought into force w.e.f. 24th January 2020
 and the priority in payment thereunder would get cemented. 184. As noted above, the respondent no.1 professed to create
 a charge on the secured asset by recording an entry in the
 record of rights of the secured asset. Evidently, the said entry 117 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 No.1211 was recorded on 20th March 2022, post enforcement
 of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act . Consequently, the said
 exercise does not displace the superior claim of the secured
 creditor with the enforcement of section 26E of the SARFAESI
 Act, on 24th January 2020. Even otherwise, the claim of the
 respondent no.1 partakes the character of a crown debt. 185. We have already noted that a crown debt enjoys no
 priority over the secured debt. Since the Income Tax Act, 1961
 does not contain a provision like the one in section 37 of the
 MVAT Act, in a strict sense, there does not seem to be any
 scope for conflict between competing claims based on statutory
 provisions. 186. A factor which, however, assumes salience in this writ
 petition is the terms of sale. The communication dated 11th
 January 2021 (Exhibit B to the writ petition) accepting the bid
 of the petitioner, indicates that the e-auction was held on "as is
 where is and as is what is basis". 187. Mutation Entry No.1121 was recorded on 20th March,
 2020. It could be urged that the petitioner had, in the least, a
 constructive notice of the purported charge of the respondent
 no.1, which found mention in the record of right. 188. While answering question (g), we have held that where
 sale is expressly made on "as is where is and whatever there is
 basis", the transferee shall be duty bound to deposit money for
 discharge of the encumbrance(s), provided that such liability
 may be overcome if the transferee is in a position to disprove
 the claim of the department that he had no actual or
 constructive notice. We have also observed that if the 118 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 department of the Government fails to act in terms of sub-
 section (4) of section 26B of the SARFAESI Act read with the
 2011 Rules, the department concerned is bound to suffer the
 consequences. 189. In the case at hand, we have seen that the secured
 creditor had registered the security interest with CERSAI on
 25th October 2017. Post enforcement of Chapter IV-A of the
 SARFAESI Act , under sub-section (4) of section 26B of the
 SARFAESI Act, the department of the Government which
 professes to recover any tax or other Government dues, is
 enjoined to register such claim with CERSAI. 190. It does not appear that the respondent no.1 registered its
 claim or attachment over the secured asset with CERSAI, post
 enforcement of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act . Sub-section
 (2) of section 26C provides that any attachment order
 subsequent to the registration of the security interest with
 CERSAI, shall be subject to such prior registered claim. 191. In our view, in the instant case, with the enforcement of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act , the claim of the respondent
 no.7 Bank, the secured creditor, was extolled to a higher
 pedestal and the subsequent act of recording a charge in the
 record of right of the secured asset cannot dilute the right of
 priority in payment, under sections 26C(2) and 26E of the
 SARFAESI Act. As a necessary corollary, the non-registration of
 the claim and/or attachment order by the respondent no.1
 under section 26B(4) of the SARFAESI Act, can only be at the
 peril of the department. Mere recording of the purported charge
 in the record of right of the secured asset, in the absence of the 119 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 registration with CERSAI, in our considered view, cannot be to
 the detriment of the auction purchaser, though the auction sale
 was on "as is where is and as is what is basis". 192. Mr. Sen, learned senior advocate appearing for the
 petitioner submitted that in the event the Court is persuaded
 to allow the writ petition, it is necessary to extend the time to
 adjudicate the stamp duty on the sale certificate and register
 the same. There are provisions in the Maharashtra Stamp Act,
 1958 ( sections 31 and 32 ) and the Registration Act, 1908 ( sections 23 and 25 ) which stipulate the time for tendering the
 instrument for adjudication, determination of stamp duty
 thereon and registration of the instrument from the date of its
 execution. Since the petitioner had instantaneously lodged the
 sale certificate for adjudication, we are inclined to direct that
 the time commencing from the lodging of the said sale
 certificate till the decision of this writ petition, be excluded from
 consideration in computing the statutory period for adjudication
 of the stamp duty and registration of the instrument. 193. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we are inclined to
 allow the writ petition. 194. The writ petition stands allowed and it is ordered as
 follows: WRIT PETITION (L) NO.7999 OF 2021 195. Petitioner is an asset reconstruction company registered
 under section 3 of the SARFAESI Act. The predecessors-in-
 interest of the petitioner, namely, the State Bank of India and
 Indusind Bank had extended credit facilities to M/s. Classic
 Diamonds (India) Ltd. (in liquidation) being the borrower, and
 the Official Liquidator, High Court, Bombay, has since been
 appointed to take charge of the affairs of the company in
 liquidation. To secure the financial facilities, security interest
 was created in the property, i.e., Flat Nos.1002, 1003 and 1004,
 Prasad Chambers, Opera House, Mumbai - 400 004 (secured
 assets) by way of an equitable mortgage. In the wake of default
 on the part of the borrower, the State Bank of India had
 instituted O.A.No.205 of 2013 and Indusind Bank had instituted
 O.A.No.198 of 2012 in the DRT, Mumbai, for grant of recovery
 certificates. 196. Under the Deeds of Assignment dated 19th March 2014
 executed by the State Bank of India and 29 th March 2014
 executed by Indusind Bank in favour of the petitioner, it
 acquired all the right, title and interest in the facilities granted
 and security interest created by the assignors. Armed with 121 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 those rights, the petitioner issued a notice under section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act, on 25th May 2017. 197. In the meanwhile, by an order dated 20th September 2017
 passed in Company Petition No.317 of 2012, M/s. Classic
 Diamonds Ltd. was ordered to be wound up. Eventually, the
 petitioner took possession of the secured assets on 9 th
 November 2017 under section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act. At
 that stage, the petitioner found the attachment order dated 19th
 August 2017 pasted on the concerned premises. Upon inquiry,
 it transpired that the respondent no.3, Assistant Commissioner
 of Sales Tax, had proceeded to attach the assets of the
 company in liquidation for the alleged sales tax dues.
 Representation of the petitioner to the respondents 1 to 3 to
 remove the said attachment did not yield any response from
 them. The attachment dated 19th August 2017 constitutes an
 unjust impediment in the petitioner's endeavour to enforce the
 security interest by sale of the secured assets. Hence, this writ
 petition. 198. On the touchstone of the legal position, which we have
 attempted to expound hereinabove, we found that the security
 interest was registered with CERSAI in respect of Flat No.1002
 on 24th April, 2017, and in respect of Flat Nos.1003 and 1004
 on 22nd June, 2012 and, thus, with the enforcement of Chapter
 IV-A of the SARFAESI Act , the petitioner's right to have priority
 in payment stood crystalized on 24th January 2020. In
 paragraph no.154, we have specifically observed that if the
 immovable property of the defaulter is shown to have been
 attached in accordance with law prior to Chapter IV-A of the 122 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 SARFAESI Act, or for that matter Section 31B of the RDDB Act,
 being enforced, and such attachment is followed by a
 proclamation according to law, the 'priority' accorded by section
 26E of the SARFAESI Act, and section 31B of the RDDB Act,
 would not get attracted. 199. The case at hand, seems to be squarely governed by the
 aforesaid enunciation. We do not find any material on record
 which would show that the sales tax authorities had passed an
 order of attachment in conformity with the governing provisions
 of the MLR Code and the MRLR Rules, followed by a
 proclamation duly promulgated in the manner ordained by law. 200. We are, therefore, persuaded to hold that the restraint on
 the right of the secured creditor to enforce the security interest
 in exercise of the right of priority in payment under section 26-
 E of the SARFAESI Act, sought to be imposed by simply pasting
 the order of attachment, cannot be countenanced. 201. The writ Petition, thus, deserves to be allowed and we
 hereby direct as follows: 202. Petitioner, a banking company, had sanctioned a home
 loan of Rs.1.52 crore and mortgage insurance loan of Rs.3.88
 crore to the respondent no.5. The home loan was sanctioned to 123 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 finance the acquisition of a commercial premises, i.e., Office
 No.101, 1st Floor, Swastik High Point, Gloria, Devchand Housing
 Compound, next to Arihant Plaza, Ghodbunder Road, Ovale,
 Thane 400 615 (the secured asset). 203. To secure the repayment of the loan, the said property
 was mortgaged in favour of the petitioner by depositing the title
 deeds. Respondent No.5 committed default in repayment of the
 installments. Consequently, the account was declared NPA on
 30th April, 2017. A notice under section 13(2) of the SARFAESI
 Act, was issued on 5th September 2017. The District Magistrate
 passed an order directing delivery of possession to the
 petitioner under section 14 of the SARFAESI Act, on 16th March
 2019. 204. On 11th April 2019, when the officers of the petitioner
 visited the secured asset, a notice for purported recovery of the
 sales tax dues of Rs.2,75,70,303/- was found pasted thereon.
 Respondents 3 and 4, directors of M/s. Global Gallarie Agencies
 Pvt. Ltd., were stated to be in arrears of the sales tax to the
 tune of Rs.2,75,70,303/- and, thus, the said property was
 attached. It further transpired that the secured asset was put
 up for auction sale on 23rd April 2019 by the Sales Tax
 Authorities by publishing the auction proclamation notice dated
 8th March, 2019 (Exhibit H). Petitioner addressed a
 communication on 16th April 2019 to the respondent no.2 inter
 alia claiming right of priority in payment and asserted that it
 has also instituted proceedings, i.e., O.A.(L) No.396 of 2018
 before the DRT for grant of recovery certificate. As the
 respondent No.2 did not remove the attachment, the petitioner 124 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 was constrained to institute this writ petition seeking to quash
 the attachment order dated 1st December 2018 and the auction
 proclamation notice dated 16th March 2019. 205. Mr. Shah, learned counsel for the petitioner, submitted
 that the petitioner has registered the security interest with
 CERSAI on 13th July, 2007. The account of the respondent no.5
 was declared NPA much before the order of attachment. In the
 circumstances, the provisions contained in section 26E of the
 SARFAESI Act, are squarely attracted and the statutory right of
 the petitioner cannot be defeated. 206. We are constrained to observe that the record does not
 equip the court to adjudicate this writ petition in the light of the
 position in law indicated above. 207. We have in terms observed that the provisions contained
 in Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act , are prospective in
 operation. We have indicated that if there are valid attachment
 orders followed by due proclamation before the enforcement of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act , then the priority envisaged
 by section 26E of the Act would not come to the aid of the
 secured creditor. Whether there is such an attachment order
 followed by proclamation is essentially rooted in facts. 208. Though the respondents have not filed an affidavit to
 assist the Court in adjudicating this aspect, yet, from the
 perusal of the auction proclamation notice dated 8th March 2019
 (Exhibit H) it becomes abundantly clear that the notice was
 issued under section 178 read with section 267 of the MLR Code
 on 17th October 2018. The warrant of attachment was issued
 on 1st December 2018 followed by an order in Form No.4 under 125 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 rule 11 of the MRLR Rules, dated 2nd January 2019. Prima facie,
 auction proclamation notice seems to be preceded by the action
 envisaged by the MLR Code and the MRLR Rules. 209. We are, therefore, of the view that the respondents 1 to
 3 deserve an opportunity to meet the case sought to be urged
 by the petitioners lest the interest of the public exchequer may
 be prejudicially affected. 210. We deem it, in the fitness of things, to direct that this writ
 petition be re-notified for hearing before the appropriate
 Division Bench for decision in the light of determination of the
 questions of law in this judgment. 211. Ordered accordingly. WRIT PETITION NO.2720 OF 2021 212. Petitioner, a co-operative society, registered under the Multi-State Co-operative Societies Act, 2002 had advanced a
 loan of Rs.5 crore each to the respondents 4 and 5 in the month
 of May 2016. Respondents 4 to 6 had executed registered
 mortgage of immovable properties including the land situated
 at Gut No.247, Tal. Baramati, Pune, admeasuring 5H (the
 secured asset) and thereby created a valid security interest
 therein, in favour of the petitioner. 213. As the respondents 4 and 5 as borrowers committed
 default in repayment of the installments, the accounts were
 declared NPA on 5th August 2016. A notice under section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act was addressed to the respondents 4 and
 5 on 16th September 2016. While the action for enforcing the
 security interest was underway, the petitioner noticed that on
 18th November 2017, a letter was addressed by the Deputy 126 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 Commissioner of Sales Tax, respondent no.1, to the Talathi, Tal.
 Baramati, Pune, to the effect that M/s. Hi-tech Engineering
 Corporation India Pvt. Ltd. owed a huge amount of
 Rs.10,12,38,061/- for the years 2010-11 to 2016-17 towards
 the sales tax dues and the arrears were likely to increase and,
 therefore, an encumbrance be noted on the land bearing Gut
 No.247 (the secured asset), which was the property of Mr.
 Sanjay J. Awate and Mr. Rajendra C. Ingawale (respondents 4
 and 6), directors of M/s. Hi-tech Engineering Corporation India
 Pvt. Ltd. The said communication was followed by letter dated
 29th December 2017. It seems vide Mutation Entry No.35661
 dated 23rd December 2017, a charge of the sales tax
 department to the tune of Rs.10,12,38,061/- was entered on
 the secured asset (Exhibit D to the writ petition). 214. Petitioner took exception and addressed notices to the
 respondent no.1 on 18th February 2019 and 10th May 2019. In
 response thereto, the respondent no.1 claimed first charge over
 the secured asset under section 37 of the MVAT Act. Aggrieved
 thereby, the petitioner has invoked the writ jurisdiction of this
 Court to set aside the encumbrance created by the respondent
 no.1 by an entry in the record of right of the secured asset. 215. An affidavit came to be filed on behalf of the petitioner on
 22nd November, 2021 to affirm that the security interest has
 been duly registered with CERSAI. A copy of the security
 interest acknowledgment report annexed to the said affidavit,
 indicates that the security interest in the secured asset, i.e.,
 Gut No.247 was registered in CERSAI portal on 18th May, 2021. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 216. An affidavit in reply is filed on behalf of the respondents
 1 and 2. It is contended that Hi-tech Engineering Corporation
 India Pvt. Ltd. owes a huge amount of Rs.65,11,68,518/- to the
 respondents towards tax dues for the financial years 2010-11
 to 2015-16. Under section 44(6) of the MVAT Act, the directors
 of a private company are jointly and severally liable for the tax
 dues. Thus, the respondents 1 and 2 had proceeded against the
 property of the respondents 4 and 5 by addressing
 communication to the revenue authorities on 18th November
 2017 to enter encumbrance on the secured asset. Since the
 petitioner has assailed the said order dated 18 th November
 2017 and the resultant mutation recording the sales tax
 encumbrance, before the Sub-Divisional Officer, Baramati in
 RTS Appeal No.118 of 2019, this Court may not entertain the
 writ petition as the petitioner has an efficacious alternative
 remedy. 217. Respondents 1 and 2 have further contended that the
 underlying transaction of advancement of loan is fraudulent.
 Personal loans were advanced despite the fact that respondents
 4 and 5 and Hi-Tech Engineering Corporation India Pvt. Ltd.,
 were heavily indebted. Respondents 1 and 2 alleged collusion
 between the petitioner and the respondents 4 and 5 to defraud
 the revenue. 218. We have perused the Assessment Order dated 26th
 December 2014 for the period 1st April, 2010 to 31st March 2011
 leading to the demand notice for a sum of Rs.1,70,75,972/-;
 the order dated 2nd December 2015 granting installments for
 payment for the tax then due for the period 1st April 2013 to 128 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 31st March 2014, and the Assessment Order dated 31st March
 2018 for 1st April 2013 to 31st March 2014 levying the demand
 of Rs.21,99,74084/-, which are annexed to the affidavit in
 reply. 219. In the light of the view which we are persuaded to take,
 we do not deem it expedient to delve deep into the aspects of
 the quantum of sales tax arrears and the period for which they
 were due. The materials on record, prima facie, indicate that
 M/s. Hi-Tech Engineering Corporation India Pvt. Ltd., of which
 the respondents 4 and 5 are the directors, was in arrears of
 huge amount towards sales tax since prior to advancement of
 the loan in question. A deed of simple mortgage dated 4 th May
 2016 under which the security interest came to be created in
 the secured asset, indicates that Hi-Tech Engineering
 Corporation India Pvt. Ltd. was one of the guarantors to the
 term loan of Rs.5 crore advanced to Mr. Sanjay Awate, its
 director. The assets of the dealer, Hi-Tech Engineering
 Corporation India Pvt. Ltd., enlisted in Schedule II were also
 mortgaged. 220. As indicated above, under less than four months, the
 accounts were declared NPA, i.e., on 5th August 2016 and action
 under Chapter III of the SARFAESI Act was initiated. This time
 of four months is too short for comfort. The allegation of
 creation of security interest fraudulently so as to defraud the
 claim of the revenue, in our view, warrants consideration. 221. Since the security interest in the secured asset came to
 be registered post enforcement of Chapter IV-A of the
 SARFAESI Act , we deem it appropriate to direct that this writ 129 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 petition be decided after providing further opportunity of
 hearing to the parties by the appropriate Division Bench in the
 light of the law laid down hereinabove. 222. Ordered accordingly. 223. We, however, clarify that we may not be understood to
 have expressed any opinion on the merits of the rival claims,
 especially the allegations of fraud. WRIT PETITION NO.2935 OF 2018 224. Petitioner no.1, a Scheduled Bank, is a society registered
 under the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act, 1960 (hereafter " Cooperative Societies Act ", for short). In August
 2010, the petitioner had advanced a loan of Rs.6 crore to M/s.
 Om Sai Auto World, a partnership firm, of which Mr. Uday K.
 Shetty and Mr. Gangadhar S. Shetty were the partners. Under
 a deed of mortgage registered on 24 th September 2010 and a
 deed of Modification dated 13th September 2012, five flats
 including Flat Nos.501 and 503 (the secured assets) owned by
 Mr. Uday Shetty and Mr. Gangadhar Shetty were mortgaged in
 favour of the petitioner no.1 to secure the said loan. 225. On account of default in repayment of the loan amount,
 the Deputy Registrar, Co-operative Societies, on 1st April 2013
 issued a recovery certificate under section 101 of the
 Cooperative Societies Act. On 9th July 2013, the learned Chief
 Metropolitan Magistrate passed an order under section 14 of
 the SARFAESI Act, directing taking over of the possession of
 the secured assets and its delivery to the petitioner no.1. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 226. In the meanwhile, the respondent no.2 passed orders
 prohibiting transfer of the secured assets and other flats owned
 by Mr. Uday Shetty and Mr. Gangadhar Shetty. On 26th May
 2013 the respondent no.1 issued a public notice for auction of
 Flat Nos.601 and 602 for purported recovery of the arrears of
 the sales tax dues. 227. Petitioners instituted Writ Petition No.1878 of 2013.
 However, since the auction notice dated 26th May 2013 was not
 acted upon, the petitioners were allowed to withdraw the said
 writ petition. Petitioners claimed to have taken possession of all
 the five flats on 10th February, 2015. In response to a public
 possession notice issued by the petitioner no.1, the respondent
 no.1 raised objection to the action of taking over possession of
 the immovable property of Om Sai Auto World claiming the
 State had first charge thereon for recovery of sales tax dues
 under section 37 of the MVAT Act. 228. Amidst raging controversy over competing claims in
 respect of the secured assets, the petitioner no.1 claimed to
 have sold Flat Nos.601, 602 and 502, and issued auction
 notices to sell the secured assets, twice. Respondent no.1, on
 its part, issued auction notice to sell Flat No.503 on 1st January
 2018 and Flat No.501 on 9th January 2018. The sale
 proclamation notice was issued on 17 th January 2018
 scheduling the sale on 22nd February 2018. 229. On 23rd January 2018, the respondent no.1 addressed a
 communication to the Chairman/Secretary of Omkareshwar
 Co-op. Housing Society Limited (in which the secured assets
 are situated) directing them not to grant no objection certificate 131 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 for transfer of the secured assets. Thus, aggrieved by the
 aforesaid action on the part of the respondents, the petitioners
 have approached this Court seeking directions to the
 respondent no.2 to withdraw the impugned notices dated 1st
 January 2018 and 9th January 2018 as well as to restrain the
 respondents from proceeding with the auction of Flat Nos.501
 and 503. It is also prayed that the petitioners be allowed to
 auction the secured assets to enforce its security interest. 230. During the pendency of this writ petition, in the auction
 sale held on 15th February 2018, since no bid was received, the
 petitioners' officer, after complying with the provisions of section 13(5A) of the SARFAESI Act, and after obtaining
 authorization to bid, claimed to have purchased the secured
 assets for Rs.92,09,814/- being the reserve price and thereby
 the petitioners became the auction purchasers. Share
 certificates dated 17th February 2018 have been issued in
 favour of the petitioners. 231. Respondents have resisted the writ petition by filing
 affidavits in reply. Even before the grant of recovery certificate
 under section 101 of the Cooperative Societies Act, the
 respondents contend, a demand notice was issued under section 34 of the MVAT Act on 31st August 2012, the warrant of
 attachment was issued on 27th September 2012 and the Sales
 Tax authorities took over possession of Flat No.501 on 15 th
 March 2013, evidenced by the Panchanama dated 15th March
 2013. An order of attachment was thereafter passed on 16 th
 March 2013 in respect of the said flat. Respondents claimed to
 have, likewise, taken possession of Flat No.503 on 14 th June 132 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 2013 and issued an order of attachment of even date.
 Petitioners' claim, if any, according to the respondents, was
 subservient to the first charge of the State under section 37 of
 the MVAT Act. Since the provisions contained in Section 26E of
 the SARFAESI Act were not brought into force earlier than 24th
 January 2022, the petitioners claim for priority in payment was
 also misconceived. 232. Respondents have further contended that the petitioners'
 conduct disentitles them from claiming any relief. Petitioners
 have suppressed material facts. As against the distress value
 of Rs.97,94,400/- and Rs.1,01,20,000/- for Flat No.501 and for
 Flat No.503, respectively, the petitioners have self-purchased
 the subject flat for an amount of Rs.92,09,814/- which appears
 to be the reserve price for one flat only. 233. We deem it superfluous to delve into the thickets of facts.
 In the order dated 7th August 2019 the Division Bench recorded
 that the sale of the subject assets took place during the
 pendency of this writ petition, without taking prior permission
 of this Court. In that context, the Court declined to accept the
 prayer of the petitioners to retain the amount of Rs.92,09,814/-
 subject to furnishing an undertaking that the amount would be
 brought back, along with interest, in the event the writ petition
 is dismissed, and instead directed the petitioners to deposit the
 amount realized on the sale of the secured assets i.e.
 Rs.92,09,814/- with the registry. The said amount has,
 accordingly, been deposited. 234. For the determination of the controversy in this writ
 petition, in the backdrop of the questions of law which we have 133 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 answered above, it would suffice to note that answers to
 question nos. (e) and (f) would govern the facts of the case.
 Undisputedly, the petitioners do not claim to have registered
 the security interest with CERSAI. The contention of Mr. Narula
 that the mortgage deed was registered under the Registration
 Act and hence the same would amount to sufficient compliance
 for the purposes of the SARFAESI Act has been countered by
 Ms. Jeejeebhoy, as noted above. We are in agreement with her
 that the deeming provision under section 20A comes into effect
 only after integration of certain registration systems with the
 Central registry and that such integration has to be notified by
 the Central Government. We have not been shown that steps
 have been taken in the manner dictated by the statute to
 enable the petitioner derive any advantage of registration of
 the mortgage deed under the Registration Act . 235. Further, Mr. Narula, learned counsel for the petitioners
 endeavoured to impress upon the Court that the disqualification
 for non-registration came into operation with effect from 24 th
 January 2020 and, therefore, the petitioners cannot be visited
 with the consequences of non-registration. We are unable to
 accede to this submission. We have also indicated in answer to
 question (e) (paragraph 129) that unless security interest is
 registered, neither can borrower seek enforcement invoking the
 provisions of Chapter III of the SARFAESI Act nor does the
 question of priority in payment arise without such registration. 236. If the submission of Mr. Narula is taken to its logical end
 and the rights and liabilities of the secured creditor are
 considered in the context of the statutory regime before the 134 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 enforcement of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act , in our view,
 the dicta of the Supreme Court in the case of Central Bank of
 India (supra) that the RDDB Act and the SARFAESI Act do not
 contain provisions giving priority to the secured creditors over
 the first charge created under the State legislations, would
 govern the field. It would be contextually relevant to note that
 the petitioners cannot take refuge under the provisions of
 section 31B of the RDDB Act, for the reasons recorded above
 in answering question no.(d) in the negative. 237. In our view, even otherwise, the situation would be
 governed by the determination in paragraph 154 above as there
 is material to indicate that the action of sale proclamation
 initiated by the respondents was preceded by notice under
 section 178 of the MLR Code, warrant of attachment under
 section 267(3), order of attachment in Form 4 and auction
 proclamation notice in Form 7 under the MRLR Rules. 238. In the backdrop of the materials brought on record by the
 respondents, especially in the form of the valuation reports
 issued by Archimage Designers (Annexures A and B to the
 affidavit in reply), which indicate that the distress sale value of
 Flat No.501 was shown at Rs.97,94,400/- and that of Flat
 No.503 at Rs.1,01,20,000/-, the sale of the secured assets for
 the purported reserve price of Rs.92,09,814/-, which in a
 sense, amounts to transfer by the right hand to the left, also
 leaves much to be desired. 239. In our view, the petitioners do not deserve any relief. 240. Since the subject flats were purchased by the petitioners
 during the pendency of this writ petition, without permission of 135 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 the Court, we annul the sale and direct that the sale certificates
 in favour of the petitioners shall stand cancelled. Further, the
 amount of Rs.92,09,814/- deposited by the petitioners be
 returned to them along with interest accrued thereon. Also, it
 is needless to observe that the rights and liabilities of the
 parties shall be governed by the law which we have clarified. 241. Subject to the above, the writ petition stands dismissed. WRIT PETITION NO.3553 OF 2021 242. Petitioner, an asset reconstruction company, is an
 assignee of the Karnataka Bank, which had extended financial
 facilities to Maxwell Metallic Wires Pvt. Ltd., in the year 2010.
 An equitable mortgage of land bearing Survey no.441, Hissa
 No.3, situated at Village Mahim, Taluka Palghar, Dist. Thane
 along with the plant and machinery thereon (the secured
 asset), was created in favour of Karnataka Bank under an
 Instrument dated 16th July 2010. 243. The assignor had initiated measures under Chapter III of
 the SARFAESI Act . A notice under section 13(2) of the
 SARFAESI Act was issued on 26th July, 2013, followed by
 possession notice dated 11th October 2013. Post execution of
 the deed of assignment on 15th December 2014, the possession
 of the secured assets was delivered to the petitioner on 31st
 March 2015. 244. Two attempts to sell the secured assets by public auction
 did not materialize as there were no bidders. In the meanwhile,
 on 9th October 2015, the respondent no.1 addressed a letter to
 the Talathi, Mahim, Tal Palghar, to enter the encumbrance of 136 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 the Sales Tax Department for the dues owed by M/s. Maxwell
 Metallic Wires Pvt. Ltd., respondent no.2, in terms of an earlier
 communication dated 22nd October 2012. Another notice was
 addressed to the petitioner on 28th October 2015 inviting its
 attention to the arrears of the sales tax which the respondent
 no.2 was allegedly liable to pay with a request to take note of
 the said Government dues while carrying out auction sale of the
 secured assets. In another communication dated 30 th
 September 2020, the Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax
 apprised the petitioner that the dealer, respondent no.2, was
 liable to pay VAT to the tune of Rs.1,60,80,806/- for the period
 2009-10 to 2011-12 and the petitioner was called upon to remit
 the said amount. 245. It further appears that on 5th October 2020, a demand
 notice was addressed to the respondent no.2 by the Assistant
 Commissioner of Sales Tax under section 178 read with section
 267 of the MLR Code. Simultaneously, a warrant of attachment
 and an order of attachment in Form 4 under the MRLR Rules
 were issued on the very day. Hence, this writ petition. 246. In an additional affidavit filed on 24th January 2021, it is
 affirmed that the security interest was registered with CERSAI
 on 2nd March 2012. A copy of the search report is annexed to
 the said affidavit. 247. At the outset, we may note that the averments in the writ
 petition remained uncontroverted. Facts seem to be rather
 incontrovertible. 248. In view of the registration of the security interest with
 CERSAI on the day Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act was 137 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 brought into force, the right of the secured creditor to have
 priority in payment stood reinforced. The State Tax authorities,
 as is evident, were content with addressing letters to the
 revenue authorities and the secured creditor to take note of its
 dues. It was on 5th October 2020, well past nine months of the
 enforcement of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act , the Assistant
 Commissioner of Sales Tax issued demand notice under section
 178 read with section 267 of the MLR Code, warrant of
 attachment and order of attachment, in one stroke. 249. Since the predecessor-in-interest of the petitioner had
 initiated steps for enforcement of security interest under section 13 of the SARFAESI Act in the year 2013 and the right
 to enforce security interest got further fortified with the
 enforcement of Chapter IV-A, with effect from 24th January
 2020, the subsequent action of the respondent no.1 does not
 supplant the right of priority in payment. We are, thus, inclined
 to allow the writ petition. 250. The writ petition stands allowed, with the following
 directions: WRIT PETITION NO.3120 OF 2021 251. Petitioner no.1, an asset reconstruction company, is an
 assignee of Cosmos Cooperative Bank Limited (hereafter
 "Cosmos", for short), a lender of M/s. Shree Ambe Metsteel Pvt. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 Ltd., respondent no.5. At the request of the respondent no.5,
 Cosmos had taken over financial facilities from Union Bank of
 India, the prior lender of respondent no.5, and had also
 sanctioned additional financial facilities. To secure the said loan,
 the respondent no.5 had executed a composite deed of
 hypothecation and mortgage on 20th September 2010 and
 thereby created a security interest over the land bearing
 Survey No.195, admeasuring 2H 40R situated at Vadavali, Tal.
 Wada, Dist. Palghar (the secured asset). In the month of July
 2011, further facilities were extended which were also covered
 by a composite deed of mortgage and hypothecation dated 6 th
 July 2011. 252. In the wake of default, the assignor issued a notice under section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act on 13th December 2013. In
 the meanwhile, by an order dated 10th November 2014 in
 Company Petition No.593 of 2012, M/s. Shree Ambe Metsteel
 Pvt. Ltd. was ordered to be wound up and the Official Liquidator
 came to be appointed to take charge thereof. Pursuant to an
 order passed by the District Magistrate, the petitioner took
 possession of the secured asset on 29th September 2015. O.A.
 No.1237 of 2016 was also instituted to recover the secured debt
 before the DRT - II, Mumbai, which awaits adjudication. 253. On 19th May 2021, the petitioner published e-auction
 notice. One of the prospective bidders brought to the notice of
 the petitioner that the respondents 2 and 3, State Tax
 authorities, have got entered encumbrance in the record of
 right of the secured asset vide Mutation Entry No.1153. Hence,
 this writ petition. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 254. Petitioner has filed an additional affidavit on 24th
 November 2021 and affirmed that the security interest came to
 be registered with CERSAI on 30th May 2014. A copy of the
 security interest acknowledgment registration report is
 annexed to the said affidavit. 255. The averments in the writ petition are untraversed. The
 only document which appears to constitute a clog on the rights
 of the secured creditor is the extract of Mutation Entry No.1153.
 It was certified on 12th December 2019 based on an order
 passed by the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, respondent
 no.3, on 6th July 2018, directing the revenue authorities to
 enter the encumbrance of the State for the sum of
 Rs.4,28,26,502/- towards the sales tax dues. 256. We have noted that mere creation of charge, in itself, is
 not enough. It does not appear that before the rights of the
 petitioner as a secured creditor, who had registered the security
 interest with CERSAI, were crystalized, with the enforcement
 of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act , the State tax authorities
 had not ordered the attachment of the secured asset in the
 manner known to law and followed it up with a proclamation.
 In the absence thereof, the priority created by section 26E of
 the SARFAESI Act operates with full force and vigor.
 Consequently, the writ petition deserves to be allowed. 257. The writ petition stands allowed. We also direct as follows: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD (b) It is hereby declared that the petitioner has a right to
 enforce the security interest by sale of the secured asset in
 accordance with law unhindered by the tax claim of the
 respondents 1 to 4. WRIT PETITION NO.6297 OF 2021 258. Petitioner, an asset reconstruction company, is an
 assignee of Central Bank of India, a leading lender of the
 consortium of lenders, which had extended credit facilities to
 Yog Industries Limited, Mr. Narendra V. Jadhav and Mrs. Kamala
 V. Jadhav (the borrowers). The loan was secured, inter alia, by
 creating security interest over the immovable property bearing
 Gut No.99, situated at Parola, Tal. Paithan, Dist. Aurangabad
 (the secured asset), then owned by the borrowers. 259. Central Bank of India, the lead lender, initiated measures
 for enforcing the security interest by issuing a notice under section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act, on 27 th April 2011.
 Subsequently, in a petition under section 9 of the I & B Code,
 the Insolvency Resolution Professional came to be appointed on
 22nd August 2017. By an order dated 12th April 2018, Yog
 Industries Limited was ordered to be liquidated. In a further
 order dated 10th April 2019, passed under section 52 of the I &
 B Code, the petitioner was permitted to exercise its option
 under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 52 thereof and
 realize its security interest in accordance with the provisions of
 the I & B Code. 260. In deference to the said order, the Official Liquidator
 delivered possession of the secured asset to the petitioner on
 24th July 2019. While in the process of selling the secured asset, 141 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 the petitioner learnt that the State Tax department has marked
 an encumbrance in the record of right of the secured asset vide
 Mutation Entry No.1132. Assailing the aforesaid action, the
 petitioner has invoked the writ jurisdiction of this Court. 261. Along with the affidavit filed on 10th March 2022, the
 petitioner has annexed a copy of the CERSAI search report,
 which indicates that the security interest over the secured asset
 was created on 2nd May 2017. 262. Respondents have not filed an affidavit in reply to
 controvert the averments in the writ petition. 263. Perusal of the record of right of the secured asset reveals
 that an encumbrance to the tune of Rs.3,62,33,272/- towards
 sales tax dues was entered in the other rights column at the
 instance of the Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax,
 Aurangabad. Evidently, the respondents 2 and 3 do not seem
 to have initiated measures before the enforcement of Chapter
 IV-A of the SARFAESI Act , to enforce the first charge over the
 assets of the dealer by attaching the immovable property and
 putting up the same for sale in accordance with the provisions
 contained in MLR Code and the MRLR Rules. 264. In such circumstances, mere marking of encumbrance in
 the record of right of the secured asset does not advance the
 cause of the revenue. In the absence of such steps, and
 particularly with the enforcement of section 26E of the
 SARFAESI Act the right of the petitioner to have priority in
 payment deserves to be enforced in preference to the claim of
 the revenue. We are, thus, inclined to allow the writ petition. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 265. The writ petition stands allowed and we order as follows: WRIT PETITION NO.2248 OF 2021 266. Petitioner no.1 is a Scheduled Bank registered under the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Act, 2002 . During the period
 2007 to 2011, in three tranches, the petitioner had extended
 credit facilities to M/s. Blue Star Agro and Winery (India) Pvt.
 Ltd., respondent no.4. The loan was secured by creating a
 mortgage by deposit of title deeds of the immovable properties
 including the agricultural land, admeasuring 60H 7R out of Gut
 No.50/2, situated at Biradwadi, Tal. Khed, Dist. Pune (the
 secured asset). 267. As the loan account became NPA, a notice under section
 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act was issued on 24th August 2011.
 Possession of the secured asset was taken by the petitioner
 under a Panchanama dated 16th July 2012. While the petitioner
 was in the process of initiating measures to sell the secured
 asset, on 20th September 2020, the respondent no.2 addressed
 a notice to the petitioner claiming that the dealer, respondent
 no.4, was in arrears of VAT and CST aggregating to
 Rs.1,39,77,469/- and the State had the first charge under 143 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD section 37 of the MVAT Act. Petitioner was thus called upon to
 hold the amount to the extent of the arrears of the sales tax
 for the respondents. The said communication was accompanied
 by an order of attachment in Form 4. 268. Upon enquiry, it transpired that the respondents 1 and 2
 had also marked an encumbrance in the record of right of the
 secured asset. Mutation Entry No.1455 was certified by the
 respondent no.3 on the basis of a communication from the
 State Tax department on 22nd September 2019 for an amount
 of Rs.96,32,005/- as on 31st March 2019. It was noticed that
 on the basis of the communication dated 7th January 2015
 addressed by the Sales Tax Officer, vide Mutation Entry
 No.1207, an encumbrance to the tune of Rs.33,76,440/-
 towards the arrears of sales tax had also been recorded in the
 record of right of the secured asset. As the communication to
 the respondents did not yield the desired result, this writ
 petition has been instituted. 269. In an additional affidavit filed on behalf of the petitioner
 on 22nd November 2021, it is averred that the security interest
 was duly registered with CERSAI on 12th March 2007. Copies of
 the general details of the security interest are annexed to the
 said affidavit. 270. The sales tax authority, respondent no.2, seems to have
 resorted to a two-pronged approach. First, it made an entry of
 encumbrance of the sales tax dues in the record of right of the
 secured asset. Next, it passed an order of attachment on 28th
 September 2020, i.e., after Chapter IV-A was introduced in the SARFAESI Act . 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 271. If we were to proceed on the basis of the additional
 affidavit dated 22nd November 2021, the writ petition would
 probably succeed. In the light of the view which we have
 recorded above, none of the measures is of any assistance to
 the revenue. A mere entry in the record of rights of the secured
 asset bereft of any order of attachment, followed by a
 proclamation in the manner known to law, is of no
 consequence. From the perusal of Mutation Entry Nos.1207
 dated 7th January, 2015 and 1455 dated 23rd July, 2019, it
 becomes evident that the encumbrances were sought to be
 recorded merely on the basis of the communication addressed
 by the Sales Tax authorities. 272. As the order of attachment was evidently passed on 28 th
 September, 2020, post section 26E of the SARFAESI Act having
 been brought into force, the right of the petitioner to have
 priority in payment of the secured debt, over all other debts,
 revenue and taxes, would crystalize. Subsequent action of
 attachment of the secured asset purportedly in exercise of the
 right under section 37 of the MVAT Act would not dislodge the
 superior claim of the secured creditor. 273. However, despite noting the above facts, we are unable to
 grant relief to the petitioner. We find that the 2011 Rules were
 notified on 31st March 2011. Therefore, the CERSAI registration
 of the security interest could not have been possible on 12 th
 March 2007 as alleged in the additional affidavit. On the
 contrary, the security interest in respect of the secured asset
 which was created on 12th March 2007 in favour of the
 petitioner appears to have been recorded in the documents 145 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 annexed to the said additional affidavit. Thus, there is a clear
 misstatement about the CERSAI registration. Having examined
 the said documents, we have not been able to locate the exact
 date of the CERSAI registration of the security interest. 274. Though the respondents have chosen not to contest the
 factual assertions, we are of the opinion that the writ petition
 ought not to be decided without the date of the CERSAI
 registration being brought on record. 275. We, thus, direct that this writ petition be re-notified for
 hearing before the appropriate Division Bench for decision in
 the light of what has been recorded above in this judgment
 while answering the questions formulated. 276. Petitioner is granted liberty, within three weeks from
 date, to file a supplementary affidavit bringing on record the
 date of the CERSAI registration with supporting documentary
 proof. The respondents may file reply affidavit within two weeks
 thereafter. Liberty is given to the parties to seek circulation of
 the writ petition after six weeks. WRIT PETITION NO.2251 OF 2021 277. Petitioner No.1 is a Scheduled Bank registered under the Multi-State Co-operative Societies Act, 2002 . In the month of
 March 2009, the petitioner had extended financial facilities to
 M/s. Delta Automobiles Pvt. Ltd., respondent no.4. In order to
 secure the credit facilities, Ms. Maya Arvind Toley, respondent
 no.5, the then director of the respondent no.4, had mortgaged
 an immovable property, i.e., Amit Bungalow, situated at 2019,
 E-2, Ward K-37, 6th Lane, Rajarampuri, Kolhapur 416 008 (the 146 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 secured asset) by depositing the title deed under letter dated
 20th April 2009. 278. In view of the default in repayment of the loan amount,
 the petitioner initiated measures for enforcing the security
 under section 13 of the SARFAESI Act. Petitioner claimed to
 have eventually taken possession of the secured asset by
 publishing possession notice dated 17th March 2020. 279. In the intervening period, on 11th March 2020, the Deputy
 Commissioner of Sales Tax, respondent no.2, addressed a
 communication to the petitioner contending that the
 respondent no.4, was in arrears of sales tax dues to the tune
 of Rs.7,99,57,316/- and the department had already initiated
 process of recovery in the month of August 2017. As a part
 thereof, it was asserted, the secured asset was attached on 31st
 January 2018 and even possession thereof was taken on 28 th
 March 2018 by publishing a notice in the daily Pudhari,
 Kolhapur. It was further contended that the copies evidencing
 the aforesaid action were already forwarded to the petitioner
 vide communication dated 16th October, 2018. Yet the
 petitioner moved the District Magistrate under section 14 of the
 SARFAESI Act, suppressing the aforesaid facts and obtained an
 order dated 11th December 2019. Another communication was
 addressed on 18th March 2020 reiterating the aforesaid
 position. 280. As the department did not cave in to the petitioner's claim
 of superior right of recovery and firmly stood by its claim, the
 petitioner has approached this Court to quash and set aside the
 demand notice and attachment order dated 30th January 2018 147 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 and to direct the respondent no.6 to remove encumbrance
 noted in the record of right of the secured asset. 281. In an additional affidavit filed on behalf of the Petitioner
 on 22nd November 2021, it is affirmed that the security interest
 over the secured asset was registered with CERSAI on 24th
 May, 2012. The same is evidenced by the search report,
 annexed thereto. 282. Though the respondents 1 to 3 have not filed an affidavit
 in reply to contest the averments in the writ petition, we find
 that from the very averments therein and the documents
 annexed thereto, the instant case would be governed by the
 later part of the observations in paragraph 154 (supra), as it
 appears that the secured asset came to be attached in
 accordance with law, prior to Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act being enforced. 283. On a careful perusal of the writ petition, it becomes
 abundantly clear that the petitioner claimed to have learnt
 about the claim staked by the Sales Tax authority in the month
 of March 2020, upon receipt of the communications dated 11 th
 March 2020 and 18th March 2020. However, the fact that the
 petitioner has known about the said fact, much prior in point of
 time, is betrayed by prayer clause (a), whereby the petitioner
 seeks to quash and set aside the impugned demand notice and
 attachment order dated 30th January 2018 informed to the
 petitioner by the respondent no.2 along with the letter dated
 16th October 2018, a copy of which is annexed to the writ
 petition at Exhibit A. 148 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 284. A perusal of the aforesaid letter dated 16th October 2018
 indicates that the respondent No.2 had specifically brought to
 the notice of the petitioner that the respondent no.4 was in
 arrears of the sales tax and was served with a demand notice
 on 22nd August 2017; the attachment order in respect of
 immovable properties including the secured asset was passed
 on 30th January 2018 and that the possession notice was also
 published in the daily Pudhari, Kolhapur on 28th March 2018.
 Petitioner was further informed that a charge was noted in the
 record of right of the secured asset as well. Copies of the
 demand notice, order of attachment and possession notice
 published in the newspaper, were also forwarded along with the
 said communication dated 16th October 2018. 285. It is imperative to note that in the reply to the letter dated
 11th March 2020, addressed on behalf of the petitioner, a stoic
 silence was maintained about the fact that vide communication
 dated 16th October 2018, the aforesaid facts were brought to
 the notice of the petitioner. What accentuates the situation is
 the fact that, in the said reply, an endeavour was made to
 demonstrate that Mrs. Maya Arvind Toley, respondent no.5, was
 not the director of the respondent no.4 and, therefore, the sales
 tax authorities were not entitled in law to attach the secured
 asset, which was the property of the respondent no.5. 286. We find that the said stand of the petitioner is in stark
 contrast to the substratum of the petitioner's claim that the
 respondent No.5 had furnished security in the capacity of a
 director of the respondent no.4. This ambivalent stand of the
 petitioner further erodes the veracity of its case. It also 149 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 indicates that instead of meeting the case of the department
 that it had enforced the 'first charge' over the secured asset in
 exercise of the right under section 37 of the MVAT Act, the
 petitioner endeavoured to deflect the issue by questioning the
 action of the department in proceeding against the property of
 the director of the dealer. 287. The situation which thus obtains is that before the
 enforcement of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act , the
 department had initiated measures to enforce its 'first charge'
 under section 37 of the MVAT Act, passed attachment order and
 also published a possession notice on 13th March 2018. 288. The dealer, in particular, and the public, in general, were
 forewarned not to deal with the secured asset as the
 transaction would be void under section 38(1) of the MVAT Act.
 To add to this, all these facts were duly brought to the notice
 of the petitioner. 289. In view of the aforesaid material, we are persuaded to
 hold that the instant case would be governed by the legal
 regime as postulated by the Supreme Court in the case of Central Bank of India (supra), before the enforcement of Chapter IV-A of the SARFAESI Act . Thus, the petitioner does
 not deserve any relief. 290. Resultantly, the writ petition stands dismissed. WRIT PETITION (L) NO.939 OF 2020 291. This writ petition happens to be a second round of
 litigation between the parties before this Court, and obviously 150 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 presents a different twist of facts when compared with the other
 writ petitions. 292. Aggrieved by the action of the Sales Tax authorities in
 laying attachment over Flat No.903, A and B, 9th Floor, Heritage
 Co-op. Housing Soc. Ltd., High Street, Hiranandani Garden,
 Powai, Mumbai - 400 076 (the secured asset), the petitioner
 had instituted Writ Petition (L) No.3041 of 2019. 293. The said writ petition came to be disposed of on 15th
 November 2019, with the following order: 294. Petitioner claimed to have auctioned the secured asset
 and confirmed sale in favour of the successful bidder for a
 consideration of Rs.4,86,00,000/- and the said amount,
 according to the petitioner, does not cover even 50% of the
 outstanding amount. Hence, this writ petition availing the
 liberty granted by the Division Bench to seek a declaratory relief
 that the petitioner is entitled to appropriate the entire sale
 proceeds in preference to the claim of the Respondent. 295. The facts leading to the initiation of measures to enforce
 the security furnished by Mr. Ganesh B. Patel, the sole
 proprietor of M/s. K.K. Steel, whom the petitioner had extended
 the financial facilities are, by and large, not in dispute. A notice
 under section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act was addressed on 8th
 February 2013. The authorized officer of the petitioner took
 physical possession of the secured asset on 10th October 2014.
 When resistance was put forth by the Sales Tax authorities to
 the auction of the secured asset, the petitioner invoked the writ
 jurisdiction. As noted above, the petitioner was permitted to
 sell the secured asset keeping open the issue of determination
 of priority. 296. Petitioner has filed an additional affidavit dated 9 th July
 2021 affirming that the security interest was registered with
 CERSAI on 9th July, 2020. Consistent with the view which we
 have recorded above, until the security interest was registered
 with the CERSAI, the petitioner could not claim priority in 152 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 payment under section 26E of the SARFAESI Act, i.e., till 9th
 July 2020. 297. A question that comes to the fore is whether the petitioner
 would be deprived of the right of priority in payment on account
 of the measures initiated by the respondents before the
 registration of the security interest with the CERSAI? 298. Two affidavits in reply are filed on behalf of the
 respondents. In the first affidavit filed by Mr. Pradeep G. Kadu,
 Joint Commissioner of State Tax, the claim of the petitioner is
 resisted on the ground that the department had lodged its claim
 with the petitioner bank before the 2016 Amending Act . In the
 affidavit in reply filed by Mr. Prasad Joshi, Joint Commissioner
 of State Tax, it is contended that a demand notice was issued
 to K.K. Steel on 29th February 2016, levying a demand of
 Rs.1,08,91746/- for the period 1st April 2010 to 31st March
 2011. When it was noticed that the auction sale notice was
 published by the petitioner on 6th June, 2016, the department
 apprised the petitioner by a letter dated 7th July 2016 that K.K.
 Steel owed sales tax dues to the tune of Rs.1,62,58,945/- plus
 interest thereon. Petitioner was directed to take note of the
 'first charge' and make a full disclosure to the prospective
 purchasers. It was further affirmed that on 30th June 2016, the
 department had informed the Chairman of the Heritage Co-op.
 Housing Society Ltd. as well to take note of the first charge and
 to not permit transfer of the secured asset, without NOC from
 the department. 299. The aforesaid correspondence emanating from the
 department, at best, shows that the department had levied a 153 ::: Uploaded on - 01/09/2022 ::: Downloaded on - 02/09/2022 04:54:14 ::: 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD

 demand of the sales tax dues on the proprietor of K.K. Steel,
 the borrower, and asserted that under section 37 of the MVAT
 Act, the State had first charge on the asset of the assessee. In
 the two affidavits filed on behalf of the respondents, what is
 conspicuous by its absence is the assertion that the
 respondents had ordered attachment of the secured asset in
 conformity with the provisions of MLR Code and the MRLR
 Rules. No endeavour was made by the respondents to show
 that the warrant of attachment and order of attachment were
 issued and there was a proclamation of the attachment order. 300. Likewise, the Sales Tax Commissioners did not claim that
 they registered the claim with the CERSAI to adhere to the
 mandate contained in section 26B(4) of the SARFAESI Act.
 Non-registration of the claim and/or order of attachment entails
 the consequences envisaged by sub-section (2) of section 26C of the SARFAESI Act. Thus, dual disability sets in. First, in the
 absence of material to show that the first charge under section
 37 of MVAT Act was enforced by a valid attachment order before
 the registration of security interest by the petitioner with the
 CERSAI, the petitioner cannot be deprived of the right of
 priority under section 26E of the SARFAESI Act. Secondly, with
 the registration of the security interest with the CERSAI on 9th
 July 2020, coupled with the absence of registration of the
 department's demand and/or order of attachment, the claim of
 the respondents becomes subservient to the right of the
 secured creditor. 301. For the foregoing reasons, we are impelled to allow the
 writ petition. 1-WP-2935-2018 & Connected-FD 302. The writ petition, thus, stands allowed in terms of prayer
 clauses (a) and (b). 303. Pending application(s), if any, in the writ petitions would
 also stand disposed of accordingly. 304. Parties to the writ petitions shall, however, bear their own
 costs. 305. Before parting, we record our sincere appreciation for the
 able assistance rendered by the learned senior advocates,
 learned counsels for the petitioners, the learned Special
 Counsel and learned Government Pleaders appearing for the
 State in determining the questions of law which arose for
 consideration and also in disposing of majority of the writ
 petitions that were under consideration. (N. J. JAMADAR, J.) (M. S. KARNIK, J.) (CHIEF JUSTICE)

 Later: