This petition is filed under Section 9 of the Arbitration and

Conciliation Act, 1996 (henceforth referred to as 'Act, 1996')

seeking following reliefs:- f. Pass an ad interim injunction directing the
 Respondent No.2 to forthwith refrain from
 entertaining or acting upon any instructions received
 from the Respondent No.1 in respect of the Bank
 Account of the LLP (Account Name: Neil Patel Digital
 LLP and Account Number: 50200045507221)
 including but not limited to initiating, approving, or
 completing any transactions, whether pre-dated,
 post-dated, or otherwise, pending disposal of the
 present petition; g. Pass an ad interim injunction directing
 Respondent No.1 to strictly comply with Clause 5.5(b)
 of the LLP Agreement dated 18.08.2022 produced as
 Annexure-E within a period of 5 days or such time as
 this Hon'ble Court may deem fit; by immediately
 handing over to the Petitioner all User IDs,
 passwords, access credentials, and administrative
 control for the LLP's electronic systems, including but
 not limited to its bank accounts, domain, email,
 applications, software, and hardware; and further, to
 restore the LLP's website and all social media
 platforms (defined as LLP's Social Media) operating
 under the Petitioner's Brand Name, to their original
 form and configuration, and not to tamper with, -7- NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

 rename, redirect, deactivate or delete the same in
 any manner whatsoever. h. Pass an ad interim injunction restraining the
 Respondent No.1, or any person, entity, servant,
 agent, or affiliate acting on his behalf, (1) from
 transferring, alienating, encumbering, or creating any
 third-party interest or rights in any of the tangible or
 intangible assets of the LLP, or in the rights and
 obligations under the LLP Agreement dated
 18.08.2022 produced as Annexure-E including the
 Petitioner's proprietary rights therein and (2) from
 destroying, altering or otherwise making inaccessible
 to the Petitioner any data, information, or
 documentation regarding financial records,
 operational records, customer information or any
 other material containing the Petitioner's IP,
 methodologies, procedures, developments,
 discoveries, code, software, hardware, algorithms,
 technical know-how and other proprietary or
 confidential information regarding the LLP's business;

 i. Pass an order directing the Respondent No.1 to
 maintain status quo ante in respect of the LLP's legal
 and financial position, its business operations, assets,
 and all proprietary rights, and to act in accordance
 with the Response-Cum-Demand Notice dated
 18.04.2025 passed by the Petitioner in accordance -8- NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

 with the LLP Agreement dated 18.08.2022 produced
 as Annexure-E; j. Pass ex-parte ad-interim orders in respects of
 the prayers (a) to (i) above; k. Pass an order directing the Respondent No.1 for
 payment of legal costs incurred by the Petitioner
 arising out of the present proceedings; and

 l. Pass such other or further order(s), direction(s),
 or relief(s) as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit, just,
 and proper in the facts and circumstances of the
 present case, in the interest of justice.

 m. Pass such other or further order(s), direction(s),
 or relief(s) as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit, just,
 and proper in the facts and circumstances of the
 present case, in the interest of justice. 2. (i) The petitioner and respondent No.1 had

entered into a limited liability partnership (LLP) dated

18.08.2022 for the purposes of carrying on business in the

name and style of "Neil Patel Digital LLP'. The partnership

agreement contemplated that respondent No.1 shall be liable

for the day-to-day operations of the partnership. He was also

provided with full access and information about the operations -9- NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

of the partnership including details and information relating to

bank accounts, finances, business dealings, employees, clients,

contracts etc., The agreement contemplated certain reserved

matters which had to be decided upon and approved by the

partnership. One of the reserved matters was, purchase of any

fixed assets and incurring any capital expenditure for an

amount of Rs.2,50,000/-. The petitioner contends that

respondent No.1 was bound under certain obligations, which

were set out in clause 15.1 of the partnership, which inter alia

mandated that respondent No.1 without prior written consent

of the firm shall not buy, order, contract or procure any

property, goods or services for the partnership exceeding

Rs.2,50,000/- and sign any cheques or transfer any amount

from any LLP account for a sum exceeding Rs.2,50,000/-. It

also contemplated that respondent No.1 shall not either by

himself or through any other person, during the term he holds

an interest in the partnership and for a period of two years

thereafter, either directly or indirectly carry on or invest in or

promote or work with or engage or interest in any business or

activity that directly and/or indirectly competes with or is same

or similar as the business or proposes to be undertaken by the - 10 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

LLP. He was also under an obligation not to solicit any person

who was at any time a customer or client of the partnership or

persuade any such customer/client to cease doing business

with the partnership or reduce the amount of business which

any such customer/client did or had customarily done or might

propose to do with the partnership. He was also under the

obligation not to solicit or hire or entice away from the

partnership any employee of the partnership. (ii) The petitioner contends that respondent No.1 was

managing the business of the firm. However, respondent No.1

had effected payment of Rs.99,99,900/- and Rs.1,00,00,000/-

to an Advocate named, Mr. Kamaluddin Ahmad. After paying

the advocate, a notice was caused on 15.04.2025 by the

respondent No.1 to the petitioner for winding up of partnership

firm as provided under clause 8.2 and respondent No.1

demanded a settlement as provided under clause 9.3(b) of the

agreement. This notice was replied by the petitioner on

18.04.2025. Thereafter, respondent No.1 surreptitiously

without notice and knowledge of the petitioner, transferred a

sum of Rs.3,00,00,000/- and Rs.2,90,00,000/- as investment

in another company in his name. The petitioner claims that - 11 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

this transfer was made without proper authorization and that

too, after respondent No.1 had made a request for winding up

of the firm. The petitioner contends that before the winding up

process had begun, the respondent No.1 had started a business

similar to that of the firm and was enticing employees of the

firm to joint the competing business started by him. The

petitioner contends that partnership document itself

contemplated settlement of disputes through arbitration and

the seat of arbitration was agreed to be in Bengaluru. The

petitioner is therefore, before this Court seeking for the

aforementioned interim measures. 3. The learned Senior counsel for the petitioner

contended that the respondent No.1 was given the

responsibility to carry on the day-to-day activities to run the

business of the firm. He contends that the respondent No.1

was bound under the agreement not to incur any capital

expenditure or buy any goods or avail any services valued at

more than Rs.2,50,000/- without the approval of the petitioner.

He contends that in flagrant violation of this stipulation, he had

transferred Rs.1,99,99,900/- to an Advocate unauthorisedly

and later got a notice of winding up of the firm issued through - 12 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

the same Advocate. He contends that respondent No.1 did not

stop at that. He then unauthorisedly transferred

Rs.5,90,00,000/- from the petitioner's account to be invested

as equity in his name in another company. He contends that

once the winding up notice was issued, the respondent No.1

could not have transferred any funds. Besides this, he contends

that respondent No.1 has established and incorporated another

venture to pursue the same business as that of the petitioner

and is trying to woo away the customers of the petitioner as

well as its employees. He contends that when parties are

bound by a written agreement, the status-quo as mentioned

therein should be maintained pending resolution of the larger

disputes through arbitration. 4. (i) The respondent No.1 has opposed the petition

by filing an elaborate statement of objections inter alia

contending that the petition under Section 9 of the Act, 1996 is

not sustainable as the petitioner has not invoked arbitration

clause. It is contended that it was he who initiated winding up

of the firm by causing notice dated 15.04.2025. He also

contends that the partnership agreement dated 18.08.2022

was amended without his consent. He claims that one of the - 13 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

clauses, terms and conditions of the amended agreement dated

18.08.2022 was atrocious, unilateral, one sided and prejudicial

to his interest and that the petitioner was guilty of playing

fraud on him by misrepresentation and cheating. He therefore,

contended that the petitioner cannot place reliance on the

amended and restated agreement and no interim measure can

be claimed unless legality of the agreement dated 18.08.2022

is established. (ii) The respondent No.1 has also denied the allegation

of the petitioner that he had acted in an illegal and prejudicial

manner. On the contrary, he contends that he was actively

involved in carrying on the day-to-day affairs of the partnership

from the year 2019 and that he had not in any way troubled

the petitioner or the partnership agreement. He claimed that

when he pointed out the atrocities committed by the petitioner

through its other designated partner Ms. Rubeena Singh, the

petitioner resorted to making allegations as a counter blast. He

contends that he being the designated partner, is a joint owner

of the assets standing in the name of firm. In support of his

contentions, he has relied upon the judgments of the Hon'ble

Apex Court in Veljiraghavji Patel vs. State of Maharashtra - 14 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

[1964 SCC Online SC 185] and Perm Ballabh vs. Mathura

Datt Bhatt [1966 SCC Online SC 268]. He therefore,

contends that he is deemed to be authorized to deal with the

money and properties of the firm. (iii) As regards the allegations that he had orchestrated

the siphoning of a sum of Rs.7.9 crores from the bank accounts

of the firm, the respondent No.1 has denied the same. He

claimed that ever since the commencement of the business of

the firm throughout India, he, out of his sheer dedication and

hard work, had contributed for the partnership to gain

popularity and getting business. He claimed that he was

instrumental in operating the bank account through respondent

No.2 which had issued authorization to operate accounts and

transfer/withdraw amounts without limiting the amount. He

contends that based on this authorization, the firm was

managed in an efficient manner without the involvement of the

petitioner. The respondent No.1 has relied upon the video

published by the other designated partner Mr. Mike Kamo in

2023, where he spoke highly of the respondent No.1 as being

vital in the growth of the business not only in India but even in

several other countries. - 15 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR (iv) The respondent No.1 also denied allegations of the

petitioner that he was attempting to usurp the entire business

and clientele of partnership and consequently, depriving the

petitioner of its financial stake and commercial reputation. He

claims that since 14.02.2024, the petitioner had taken over the

website, domain and control over the running of the digital

platform and respondent No.1 was never in control. He also

denied the use of email ID through the domain of the

partnership. He claims that alleged amount which was

transferred cannot be the subject matter of the arbitration as

the initiation of winding up pulls the plug on all transactions

until the process of winding up as provided under clause 8.2

read with clause 9.3 of LLP agreement reaches conclusion. He

therefore, contended that the interim measure sought for by

the petitioner is not maintainable and is not a step in aid to the

process of winding up of the firm. (v) The respondent No.1 denies that the petitioner is a

distinguished and leading organization having global presence

for its end-to-end global digital marketing organization. He

claims that he was informed about the fraud committed by the

petitioner to the tune of Rs.2,50,00,00,000/-. An email - 16 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

communication in that regard is also enclosed along with the

statement of objections. He also placed on record certain

online articles relating to the scam in which the petitioner was

allegedly involved. (vi) The respondent No.1 admits that he and the

petitioner had jointly incorporated the LLP in the year 2019.

However, he contends that the LLP agreement dated

18.08.2022 is shrouded in fraud and is a result of

misrepresentation. (vii) The respondent No.1 also contended that the digital

assets of the partnership are jointly held by the petitioner and

respondent No.1 and therefore, he is equally entitled to all

rights which stand in the name of Neil Patel Digital LLP/ Neil

Patel Digital LLC. He denies that the petitioner is a majority

partner in the LLP even though it holds 70% of the profit and

loss of the firm. He claims that when it comes to the ownership

of the assets of the firm, it would be joint and equal. (viii) The respondent No.1 contended that when the

petitioner designated another person named, Ms. Rubeena

Singh as the Managing Director of the firm, he did consent. - 17 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

However, after her appointment, she started harassing all the

employees, due to which the business environment was

vitiated. Several mails were shot by him informing the

petitioner about the conduct of Ms. Rubeena Singh which

however, was not noticed by the petitioner. The respondent

No.1 has alleged that appointment of Ms. Rubeena Singh was

not in the best interest of the LLP as all the existing employees

including him felt threatened and business of the firm slumped.

He claimed that the petitioner showed no interest in ensuring

business of the firm improved and that the same was evident

from the various emails and correspondences prior to the

issuance of legal notice dated 15.04.2025. He also contended

that the transfer of funds by him cannot be termed as

misappropriation, as statement of accounts in the account held

by the firm in respondent No.2 established that several

transactions exceeding Rs.2,50,000/- were done based on the

authorization given to him. Therefore, respondent No.1

contends that the allegation of the petitioner that he was

involved in several unauthorized transactions, was without any

basis. He contends that funds transferred by him cannot be

termed as misappropriation of the funds of the firm but at the - 18 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

most can be treated as overdrawing of the amounts, which is

subject to a detailed enquiry by the Arbitral Tribunal to be

appointed by the Hon'ble Apex Court, where a request is

pending consideration under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996.

He contends that it is always open for the petitioner to seek

restoration of the funds by making a request before the

Arbitrator under Section 17 of the Act, 1996. Thus, the

respondent No.1 contends that until suitable enquiry is held, it

would not be possible to decide, whether the transfer of funds

made by him was with the prior approval of the designated

partners or was in violation of the partnership agreement. He

also denies the allegations of the petitioner that he was trying

to siphon off and misappropriate the funds which was

forthcoming from WhatsApp communications. It is also

contended that respondent No.1 is also a partner in the firm

and therefore, there can be no restraint against him and

interim measures sought for against him, would cripple him in

operating as partner of the firm. 5. The learned counsel for respondent No.1 while

reiterating the above contentions submitted that respondent

No.1 owing to various reasons had invoked clauses in the - 19 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

partnership agreement, which provided for winding up of the

firm. He submits that once a notice was issued under Rule 4 of

the Limited Liability Partnership (Winding up and Dissolution)

Rules, 2012, all issues will have to be adjudicated before the

Tribunal which is National Company Law Tribunal constituted

under the Companies Act, 1956 . He therefore, contends that

the petitioner cannot rush to this Court seeking for interim

measure. He also contends that respondent No.1 had invested

his own money and in view of the deadlock between the

petitioner and respondent No.1, the respondent No.1 has

merely transferred certain funds of the firm to a safe

destination so as to protect his investment. He contends that

respondent No.1 cannot be accused of misappropriating, as it

was clearly shown in the account that the amount was invested

in another company in his name. He contends that the

question, whether the respondent No.1 is accountable for the

said amount or not, are all matters which have to be

adjudicated during winding up of proceedings or before the

Arbitrator and no interim measures can be passed as sought for

by the petitioner in this petition. - 20 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR 6. I have considered the submissions of the learned

Senior counsel for the petitioner as well as the learned counsel

for the respondent No.1. 7. It is now well settled that the application under Section 9 of the Act, 1996 has to be considered on the same

lines as an application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of

CPC . The time tested principles such as prima facie case,

balance of convenience and comparative hardship that would

be caused in not granting an order of injunction or interim

measure, would also apply to an application under Section 9 of

the Act, 1996. In this regard, it is profitable to refer to the

judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Adhunik Steels Ltd.,

vs Orissa Manganese and Minerals (P) Ltd. , [(2007) 7

SCC 125. Interim measures are therefore, a step in aid to the

final relief. 8. Coming to the case on hand, it is not in dispute that

the petitioner and respondent No.1 had entered into limited

liability partnership (LLP), which was evidenced by a document

dated 18.08.2022. Some of the relevant clauses of the - 21 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

agreement, which are necessary for the purpose of considering

this application are extracted below:- (a) to (e) xxxxx - 22 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR f) Buy, order, contract or procure any property,
 goods and services for the LLP exceeding INR
 250,000/- (Indian Rupees Two Hundred Fifty
 Thousand) (g) xxxxx h) Sign any Cheque or transfer any amount from
 any LLP account for a sum exceeding INR 250,000/-
 (Indian Rupees Two Hundred Fifty Thousand). 16. NON-COMPETE/NON SOLICIT

 16.1 Pradeep hereby irrevocably and unconditionally
 undertake that he shall not, either by himself or
 through any other person, during the term he holds
 an Interest in the LLP ("Non-Compete Period")
 and for a period of 2 (two) years thereafter, either
 directly or indirectly, (whether as a partner, joint
 venture partner, collaborator, contractor,
 shareholder, lender, advisor, principal, agent,
 director, Affiliate, distributor, proprietor, employee,
 consultant, nominee in any other capacity or manner
 whatsoever of a company, LLP, proprietorship firm,
 partnership firm or any other entity or body
 corporate, whether for profit or otherwise): NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

 that directly and/or indirectly competes with or is
 same or similar as the Business or proposes to
 undertake the same or similar business as that of the
 LLP, except through the LLP; and/or b) xxxxxx c) solicit any Person who is or has been at any
 time (i) a customer/client of the LLP (irrespective of
 whether the relationship between the LLP and such
 customer/client was originally established in whole or
 in part through the efforts of the Senior Personnel or
 any other employee of the LLP) or a lead provided by
 the NPD LLC, by offering or enticing such
 customer/client/lead to compete with the whole or
 part of the Business except to the extent of doing
 Business with such customer/client, or (ii) persuade
 any such customer/client to cease doing Business
 with the LLP, or reduce the amount of business which
 any such customer/client does or has customarily
 done or might propose to do with the LLP; and/or 23. DISPUTE RESOLUTION

 Except as otherwise provided by law, any dispute,
 difference or question arising out of or under or
 connected with this LLP Agreement which cannot be
 amicably resolved through negotiations between the
 Parties within thirty (30) business days of being so - 24 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

 notified by a Party or if such negotiations do not start
 within (fifteen) 15 days of such notification, shall be
 finally settled by arbitration by a sole arbitrator to be
 jointly appointed by the Parties in accordance with
 the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
 1996 (' Arbitration Act '). The arbitration shall be
 conducted in English language in accordance with the
 provisions of the said Arbitration Act . Any arbitration
 award made shall be final and binding on the Parties
 the and not be subject to appeal and shall be
 enforceable in any court of competent jurisdiction.
 The seat and place of arbitration shall be Bengaluru,
 Karnataka. Such arbitral award(s) shall be binding on
 all parties to the dispute. 24. GOVERNING LAW

 This LLP Agreement shall be governed by the laws of
 India which are in force and which may be enacted
 by the Government of India from time to time. 25. JURISDICTION

 Subject to the provisions mentioned hereinbefore,
 competent courts in Bengaluru, Karnataka shall have
 jurisdiction to adjudicate over matters relating to or
 arising out of the present Agreement. - 25 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR 9. It is therefore, evident that the respondent No.1

being the partner entrusted with the day-to-day management

of the firm, was also under certain obligations namely that he

would not bring about any transaction in capital goods which

was valued at more than Rs.2,50,000/- and that he would not

make any purchase of goods or avail services which was valued

at more than Rs.2,50,000/- without the consent of petitioner.

He was also under certain obligation not to get involved directly

or indirectly in any similar business and was prohibited from

soliciting any person or any customer of the firm and not to

solicit or hire or entice away any of the employees. In the

teeth of these clauses, it is seen from the records produced by

the petitioner that respondent No.1 had transferred sum of

Rs.99,99,900/- on 08.04.2025 and a sum of Rs.1,00,00,000/-

on 09.04.2025 apparently towards legal expenses of an

Advocate Mr. Kamaluddin Ahmad. Following this, a notice dated

15.04.2025 was issued at the instance of the respondent No.1

by Mr. Kamaluddin Ahmed for winding up of the partnership

firm. After issuance of such notice, which must have arrested

all transactions, the respondent No.1 transferred a sum of

Rs.3,00,00,000/- on 17.04.2025 towards investment in GCT - 26 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

India and a sum of Rs.2,90,00,000/- on 17.04.2025 towards

investment in GCT India. Though the respondent No.1 has filed

an elaborate statement of objections, he has not placed on

record any permission or approval or consent given by the

petitioner authorizing him to make such transfers. In the entire

statement of objections, respondent No.1 has not even

mentioned in whose name, such investment was made, despite

the submission by the learned Senior counsel for the petitioner

at the time of arguments that such investment is made in the

name of respondent No.1. It is therefore, apparent that

respondent No.1 has utilized the funds of partnership without

proper authorization and has invested the same in his name in

another company, particulars of which is not furnished and not

provided to the partnership firm. Thus, the apprehension of

the petitioner that respondent No.1 is not carrying on the day-

to-day activities of the firm lawfully appears to be genuine. 10. This apart, the petitioner has alleged that the

respondent No.1 is involved in a competing business and is also

soliciting the customers and clients of the partnership firm as

well as trying to entice away the employees of the partnership.

A perusal of the statement of objections filed by the respondent - 27 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

No.1 does not show that respondent No.1 has denied the

allegations made by the petitioner. Therefore, pending

appointment of arbitrator, status-quo of the affairs of the firm

have to be maintained lest, the purpose of proceedings under

the Act, 1996 will render it an empty formality. 11. In that view of the matter, the petitioner has made

out a prima-facie case for grant of interim measures. This

apart, the balance of convenience to grant some of the interim

measures sought for by the petitioner lies in its favour. Going

by the conduct of respondent No.1, the hardship that would be

caused in refusing to grant injunction would be more to the

petitioner as the respondent No.1 who is privy to lot of

information of the petitioner such as customer database,

support chain employees etc., may commit acts that would be

detrimental to the existence of the petitioner. Accordingly, the

following order is made: - 28 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR (ii) The respondent No.1 is directed to deposit a sum

 of Rs.5,90,00,000/- (Rupees Five Crores Ninety

 Lakhs only) before this Court within a period of

 ten days from today. On such deposit, the

 Registry is directed to keep the amount in an

 interest earning fixed deposit in any nationalized

 bank for a period of one year. (iii) The respondent No.1 is restrained by an order of

 injunction, either directly or indirectly, from

 accessing, operating or utilizing the petitioner's

 bank account, in any manner, whatsoever and

 from acting for or on behalf of or representing

 the petitioner, in any manner whatsoever and

 from using, misappropriating, exploiting, copying

 or disclosing any intellectual property owned by

 or licensed to the petitioner. (iv) The respondent No.1 is also injuncted, in any

 manner either directly or indirectly, contacting

 any existing clients of the partnership and/or

 from soliciting business from them in any - 29 - NC: 2025:KHC:38445 AP.IM No. 4 of 2025 HC-KAR

 manner or to reduce business with the petitioner

 etc. He is also restrained from engaging directly

 or indirectly in any competing business during

 the subsistence of the partnership with the

 petitioner and for a period of two years

 thereafter. (v) The respondent No1 is also injuncted, in any

 manner either directly or indirectly, soliciting or

 hiring or enticing any employees of the

 petitioner. (vi) It is open for the petitioner to seek the other

 reliefs before the arbitrator once the Tribunal is

 constituted in accordance with law. Sd/- (R. NATARAJ)
 JUDGE
PMR List No.: 1 Sl No.: 16