FACTS: When CPIO does not transfer RTI request to appropriate authority, it
 becomes their duty to collect the same and furnish to appellant. 7. The CPIO dismissed the request saying "information was not
 maintained in the form sought", which is neither a defense nor an
 exception. Section 7(9) of RTI Act says: An information shall ordinarily be
 provided in the form in which it is sought unless it would
 disproportionately divert the resources of the public authority or would be
 detrimental to the safety or preservation of the record in question. The
 CPIO has totally ignored this mandate and did not try to show how it
 disproportionately diverts the resources. It also shows that he has the
 information sought in some form but he did not give. In fact, this forms
 part of 17 categories of information that has to be given voluntarily under Section 4(1)(b) ,(c) and (d) of RTI Act . The department is expected to
 have a record of cost and investment of the projects, and employment

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 2
 generated by them. They should also have the list of successful and failed
 projects or projects which only existed on paper and were never
 introduced on the floor (as asked). If there are no failures, should have
 been proud of it. It is their duty to explain reasons for the failures, if any.
 The CPIO appears to have totally ignored Section 4 and the
 responsibilities of public authority under RTI Act . Not giving such
 information even when the appellant formally requested under RTI Act might lead to penalty. It is not known whether other ministry gave
 information about willful defaulters. The question is why not theypublishes
 the names and photographs of willful defaulters of bank loans? 8. It is reported that between 1998 and 2018, around 3 lakh farmers
 committed suicide in our country, often by drinking pesticides themselves.
 (Sainath, P. "India's agrarian crisis has gone beyond the agrarian". The Wire. https://thewire.in/agriculture/a-long-march-of-the-dispossessed-to-delhi.) They felt
 ashamed to live in the midst of their friends and relatives for their failure
 to pay back. They lived by and died in the agricultural fields believing in
 mother earth, but did not leave mother land like 7000 rich, educated
 corporate industrialists who cheated the nation by evading thousands of
 crores. Farmers proved that they are real patriots as they valued the duty
 to pay back nation's money as higher than their living. In every election
 the political parties woo the voters with promises of farm loan waiver,
 some of them rode to power and few fulfilled promise. Surprisingly the
 defaulters of small amounts like farmers are defamed in public, while the
 defaulters above Rs 50 crore were given a long rope, high concessions in
 the name of one time settlements, interest waivers, several other
 privileges and their names are hidden from exposure to secure their
 reputation!. 9. According to the RBI, just 12 companies are estimated to account for 25%
 of the gross NPAs, and were identified for immediate bankruptcy
 proceedings, while there are 488 others which have been given six
 months time to restructure their debt or be dragged to National Company
 Law Tribunal (NCLT). A newspaper gave list of 12 companies and their
 loan defaults or bankruptcy details. A media report said that Reuters news

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 3
 agency has collected RBI data through RTI and concluded that country's
 bad loans have hit a record high of Rs. 9.5 lakh crore at the end of June
 2017. (https://www.financialexpress.com/industry/banking-finance/indias-bad-loans- here-is-the-list-of-12-companies-constituting-25-of-total-npa/903396/lite/) Another
 media report says: As on September 30, 2017, more than Rs 1.1 lakh
 crore was owed to banks by "willful defaulters". There are more than
 9,000 such accounts for which banks have filed lawsuits for recovery and
 found that the top 11 debtor groups, each with dues of over Rs 1,000
 crore, together had over Rs 26,000 crore outstanding to the banks. 10.After several Bank officials are arrested in Rs 11400 crore PNB scam, the
 All India Officers Confederation AIBOC, (with membership of 3 lakh
 officers) has posed a challenge to Central Government to publish names
 of the willful defaulters of all Banks. AIBOC also demanded that the banks
 be given liberty to write to the home ministry to take over the passports
 of directors of defaulting companies for emigration clearance to prevent
 their escape. AIBOC asked why Reserve Bank of India (RBI) was
 hesitating to publish the list of defaulters like Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and
 Mehul Choksi and why they were allowed to leave the country. AIBOC
 questioned banks, the way they are writing off loans of thousands of
 crores every year in favour of these corporate bodies, which itself could be
 a major scam. (https://www.indiatoday.in/india/story/bank-officers-union-challenges-
 govt-to-publish-names-of-defaulters-1175659-2018-02-23). The apprehensions of
 AIBOC were confirmed by media's analytical reports. One report last year
 says about 7,000 millionaires shifted their residence outside India, or
 changed their citizenship, leaving the banks, economy of the nation,
 public exchequer and public sector banks bleeding. An internet news
 portal gave, on 19th February 2018, the list of defaulters who escaped
 from our country changing citizenship. (https://thewire.in/business/nirav-modi-
 look-back-high-profile-indian-businessmen-skipped-town) In March 2018, Minister of
 State for External Affairs MJ Akbar stated in Parliament that 31 business
 people facing CBI investigation have flown out of country. After the Nirav
 Modi case, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) set up a five-member
 working group to examine the exodus and their taxation aspects. CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 4
 (http://www.newindianexpress.com/business/ 2018/may/08/new-tax-laws-for-defaulters- who-flee-abroad-like-vijay-mallya-nirav-modi-1811596.html) The Fugitive Economic
 Offenders Ordinance in April, 2018 was passed. A committee headed by
 financial services secretary Rajiv Kumar, with representatives from the
 RBI, the ministries of home and external affairs, the Enforcement
 Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has
 recommended stopping willful defaulters with loans exceeding Rs 50 crore
 from travelling overseas without prior approval. In March, banks had been
 directed to seek the passport details of borrowers taking loans of Rs 50
 crore and more. The website reported that for quarter ended June 30,
 2018, 3,385 suits were filed against defaulting companies that had
 willfully defaulted on loans of Rs 25 lakh and above - amounting to a
 whopping Rs 57,523.90 crore. The finance ministry had also directed PSBs
 to examine all NPA accounts of over Rs 50 crore for possible fraud and
 accordingly report the cases to concerned investigating agencies,
 including CBI, ED and DRI, if any wrongdoing was detected.
 (https://www.businesstoday.in/current/economy-politics/wilful-defaulters-with-loans-over-
 rs-50-crore-from-foreign-travel/story/281122.html) 11.The Financial Stability Report, 2017, released by the RBI, states that
 India's gross NPAs stands at 9.6%. Finance Minister answered in Lok
 Sabha on August 11, 2017, that the gross NPAs of public sector banks
 increased by 311.22% from Rs.1,55,890 crores in 2013 to Rs.6,41,057
 crores in 2017. According to the rating agency CARE, as of June 2017,
 State Bank of India leads the list of scheduled banks with the highest
 NPAs with Rs.1,88,068 crores of stressed assets. Punjab National Bank
 and IDBI Bank follow suit with Rs.57,721 crores and Rs.50,173 crores of
 gross NPAs respectively. However, among Indian banks, IDBI Bank, which
 has 24.11% gross NPAs tops the list for lending institutions with the
 highest exposure to liabilities. Indian Overseas Bank has 23.6% NPAs
 while fellow private lenders like Kotak Mahindra Bank and HDFC had only
 2.58% and 1.24% gross NPAs. State Bank of India has a gross NPA ratio
 of 9.97%. (Dated Dec 9, 2017, https://www.thehindu.com/business/Economy/all-you-
 need-to-know-about-indias-npa-crisis-and-the-frdi-bill/article21379531.ece)

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 5 12.The RBI has issued a Master Circular regarding willful defaulters, on June
 30, 2015. It says that Pursuant to the instructions of the Central Vigilance
 Commission for collection of information on willful defaults of Rs.25 lakhs
 and above by RBI and dissemination to the reporting banks and FIs, a
 scheme was framed by RBI with effect from 1st April 1999 under which
 the banks and notified all India Financial Institutions were required to
 submit to RBI the details of the willful defaulters. This recommended
 criminal action by banks under Sections 403 to 415 of Indian Penal Code,
 which deal with cheating. 13.Ministry of Corporate Affairs had introduced the concept of a Director
 Identification Number (DIN) with the insertion of Sections 266A to 266G
 in the Companies (Amendment) Act, 2006 . In order to ensure that
 directors are correctly identified and in no case, persons whose names
 appear to be similar to the names of directors appearing in the list of
 willful defaulters, are wrongfully denied credit facilities on such grounds,
 banks / FIs have been advised to include the Director Identification
 Number (DIN) as one of the fields in the data submitted by them to Credit
 Information Companies. 14. The RTI Act Section 4(1)(c) says: "publish all relevant facts while
 formulating important policies or announcing the decisions which affect
 public"; (d) says "provide reasons for its administrative or quasi-judicial
 decisions to affected persons". What is the policy of Finance Ministry,
 Ministry for Statistics and Program Implementation and RBI in dealing
 with the willful defaulters of Rs 50 crore and above, how do they want to
 deal with them and save the public money and economy of our nation?
 They have a duty to inform the people from time to time with all updated
 information, and to remove the apprehensions expressed by AIBOC, and
 the Media as referred above. This RTI applicant's request reflects the
 apprehensions of the people in general also. These are the factors of
 public interest which cannot be ignored in dealing with this RTI request. 15.In an earlier RTI application by Shri Subhash Chandra Agrawal dated
 8.7.2013 seeking (1) list of bank-defaulters of public sector banks with
 outstanding above rupees one crore each, mentioning names of directors/

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 6
 partners etc. of such defaulting companies/ firms as on 31.03.2013; (2)
 list of non-performing assets and/ or other loans at public-sector banks
 above rupees one crore written off as bad debts ever since 01,01.2008;
 (3) list of non-performing assets and/ or other loans at public sector
 banks above rupees one crore which were extended further after their
 being not paid on stipulated time ever since 01.01.2008; (4) complete
 information on steps taken to direct all public sector banks to put all such
 cases as queried under points (2) to (4) on website; (5) complete
 information on steps taken by RBI and/ or other concerned for effectively
 checking non performing assets and bad debts in public sector banks.
 The CPIO claimed that RBI receives data relating to the top 30 Non-
 Performing Assets (NPAs) accounts from banks for supervisory purposes
 only, which is held in fiduciary capacity and is exempt u/s 8(1)(a) , (d)
 and (e) of the RTI Act ; and informed the appellant that the list of NPA and
 other loans at public sector banks was not available with RBI. On
 points 2 and 5 of the RTI application the CPIO informed the appellant
 about the remedial measures taken by the RBI to monitor credit quality-
 strategy for monitoring NPAs. First Appellate authority while upholding
 the decision of the CPIO, held that the CIC had vide order dated
 15.11.2011, inter-alia directed the RBI to provide details of the top 100
 defaulters in loans taken by industrialists from public sector banks.
 However, the Delhi High Court had stayed the operation of the order
 dated 15.11.2011 of CIC and in W.P. No. 1976 of 2012, the Delhi High
 Court vide its interim order dated 10.04.2012 directed the CIC to adjourn
 hearings in all such cases that involved the disclosure of the inspection
 reports prepared by the RBI, and correspondence exchanged between the
 RBI and banks etc. In a separate RTI application on similar subject by
 Subhash Chandra Agrawal, the CPIO, RBI (DBS) vide letter dated
 12.08.2013 informed the appellant regarding the remedial measures
 taken by RBI to monitor credit quality strategy for monitoring NPAs with
 reference to point 6 and informed the appellant that the list of NPA loans
 of public sector banks was not available with RBI. The CPIO, RBI.
 Department of Banking Operation and Development (DBOD) vide letter
 dated 28.08.2013 informed the appellant that information sought at point
 1 is exempted from disclosure u/s 8(1)(e) and (h) of the RTI Act and

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 7
 replied to the appellant that as far as specific names/ persons/
 organizations as sought at point 2 was concerned, Section 45(E) of the
 RBI Act 1934 prohibits the RBI from disclosing 'credit information' except
 in the manner provided therein. Since the applicant's request was not
 covered under any of those exceptions, the information could not be
 provided to the appellant. The FAA vide order dated 25.09.2013 while
 partly allowing the appeal directed the CPIO, DBOD to issue a
 supplementary reply to the appellant queries at point 4 and 5 within ten
 days. Two second appeals of Subhash Chandra Agrawal were heard by a
 bench of two learned Central information Commissioners, Smt. Manjula
 Prasher and Shri Sudhir Bhargava on 24th June 2016. The appellant
 argued that the information relating to the queries of NPA and list of
 defaulters by the respondents on the grounds that it would prejudicially
 affect the economic interest of the country and the information was held
 by them in fiduciary relationship. The bench of CIC deferred without
 pronouncing any order, saying that a PIL is pending on the same issue. 16.Analysis of these facts, circumstances, earlier RTI responses and the
 contentions of both the sides raises two important questions: Interim Directions on 25.6.2018 17.Hence, the Commission directed Mr. Ompal Singh, CPIO to show-cause
 why maximum penalty should not be imposed against him for not
 providing information to the appellant, before September 12, 2018 and
 the case is posted on September 12, 2018, at 12.00 noon. CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 8 18.The Commission also directed CPIOs, Mr. Ompal Singh, DGEAT, Ministry of
 Labour & Employment, the Ministry of Rural Development, and Ministry of
 Skill Development and Entrepreneurship to coordinate with each other and
 provide a comprehensive information report to the appellant, explaining
 point-wise along with details of failures if any, and the reasons thereof
 before September 12, 2018, and send a report of compliance to this
 Commission. 19.The Commission directed the notice to CPIOs of Finance Ministry, Ministry
 for Statistics and Program Implementation and RBI to provide the
 information as mentioned in paragraph 22, with compliance report to this
 Commission and if they cannot submit any part of that information, they
 may chose to explain why should they not be directed to publish the
 details of the information sought including the names of willful defaulters,
 before 12th September 2018, the case is posted for compliance on 12th
 September 2018 at 12 noon. 20.Shri Laltlana Chhangte, Deputy Secretary to the Govt. of India &
 Nodal Officer for RTI, Ministry of Statistics & Program Implementation in
 his written submissions dated 18.09.2018, explained as under: 21.The Commission finds that CPIO of NSSTA being a subordinate officer
 under the Ministry, it could not provide information on behalf of the entire
 ministry, and also noticed the averment of Mr. Chhangte, that this
 ministry was not even remotely connected with certain aspects of the
 information directed. Hence, the Commission finds that penalty
 proceedings will not serve any purpose and drops them instantly. 22.Shri S.K. Panigrahy, CPIO, RBI Department of Banking Supervision,
 Central Office in his written submissions dated 19.09.2018, explained as
 under: (Emphasis Added) 6. In Paragraph Nos. 21 and 22, CIC made the following observations: 7. It is submitted that a basic and long established common law proposition is
 that without the expressed or implied permission of a customer, a bank must
 not disclose either the state of the customer's account, any of his or her
 transactions with a bank, or any information related to the customer acquired
 by reason of keeping the account, subject to certain limited and defined
 exceptions. The decision in the case of Tournier v. National Provincial and
 Union Bank of England [1923] AII ER 550: [1924] 1 KB 461 is a locus
 classicus on the subject of banker's duty of confidentiality. This law is still
 being followed in India (See: Shankarlal Agarwalla v. State Bank of India
 and Anr. AIR 1987 Cal 29). 8. In India, there are a number of legislations which require the observance of
 confidentiality/secrecy by the bankers on the customer related information. State Bank of India Act, 1955 (Section 44), Banking Companies (Acquisition
 and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 /1980 ( Section 13 ) and Regional
 Rural Banks Act, 1976 ( Section 25 ) stipulate that the bank concerned shall
 observe confidentiality/secrecy and shall not divulge any information relating
 to or to the affairs of its constituents except in the few situations enumerated
 therein. 9. A reference is also invited to the provisions of Section 43A of the Information
 Technology Act, 2000 and the Information Technology (Reasonable Security
 Practices and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules,
 2011 framed under that Act, which, inter alia, gives protection to sensitive
 personal data or information of customers of body corporates. Rule 5(5) of
 those rules, provide that information collected shall be used for the purpose
 for which it has been collected. These provisions may have to be read in
 conjunction with the principles enumerated in the Tournier case enumerated
 above. CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 11 10. It is submitted that Chapter IIIA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 prescribes the procedure for collection and furnishing of credit information.
 Section 45A(c) defines the term 'Credit Information' to mean any information
 relation to: 11. Section 45B of Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 provides that the Reserve
 Bank may collect, in such manner as it may think fit, credit information from
 banking companies and furnish such information to any banking company in
 accordance with the provisions of Section 45D of that Act. Under Section 45C of the Act, the Reserve Bank is empowered to call for returns containing credit
 information from any banking company. Section 45E of the Reserve Bank of
 India Act, 1934 prohibits the Reserve Bank from disclosure of credit
 information as defined in Section 45A and treats such information as
 confidential. The said section gives certain exceptions as well. Further, in
 terms of sub-section (3) of Section 45E of the Reserve Bank of India Act,
 1934, even Courts and Tribunals are prohibited from compelling Reserve Bank
 or any banking company from producing or giving inspection of any statement
 submitted under provisions of Section 45C and 45D. The basis of the
 provisions of Chapter IIIA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 and the
 prohibition against the Courts, Tribunals and other authorities is that secrecy
 should be observed in banker-customer relationship. Section 58B(4) of the
 Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, prescribes the punishment for disclosure of
 information which is prohibited under Section 45E. 12. In terms of Section 58B(4) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, "if any
 person discloses any credit information, the disclosure of which is prohibited
 under Section 45E , he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
 may extent to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand
 rupees, or with both". Hence, it is absolutely necessary to ensure that
 disclosure of any information by the Reserve Bank is in accordance with law.
 True, under Section 28 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, Reserve Bank of
 India may in public interest publish any information obtained by it under the
 Banking Regulation Act, 1934 but only in a consolidated form. 13. It is humbly submitted that what is being provided by various banks/financial
 institutions to the RBI under Chapter IIIA of Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 ,
 is nothing but the customer related confidential information. The original
 classification of such information is not disturbed and the applicable

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 12
 exemptions under RTI Act, 2005 from disclosure would continue even when
 the information is submitted to the RTI by various banks. Any other
 interpretation would result in an anomalous and confusing situation, which is
 not intended under the RTI Act, 2005 . If otherwise interpreted, it will lead to a
 situation when the exemption from disclosure of such information has been
 recognized in the hands of banking company, the same will be taken away
 when the information is held by the RBI. The adage is 'what cannot be
 achieved directly cannot be achieved indirectly'. 14. The provisions of Special enactments, viz., Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 requiring confidentiality cannot be said to be
 impliedly repealed by the RTI Act, 2005 . This because RTI Act, 2005 is a
 general legislation on disclosure of information and by applying the
 established rules of interpretation one has to say that the provisions in that
 enactment cannot be said to have the effect of repealing all other specialized
 legislations relating to confidentiality. The Hon'ble CIC has in P.K. Saha v.
 D.B. Janotkar, General Manager (A & EE) & PIO, Mahanadi Coalfields
 Ltd. (CIC decision dated 17.08.2007) observed as follows: 15. It is respectfully submitted that Section 45E of the RBI Act relating to the
 confidentiality of credit information does not stand impliedly repealed by the
 provisions of Section 22 of the RTI Act. 16. It is submitted that RBI has put in place a mechanism for sharing of both suit
 filed and non-suit filed accounts related information beyond a specified
 threshold, amongst banks and financial institutions. This is in tune with the
 provisions of Section 45E of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Moreover,
 the Credit Information and (Regulation) Act, 2005 allows access of
 information relating to creditworthiness to credit institutions from Credit
 Information Companies, when a prospective borrower approaches them with a
 request for financial accommodation. Thus, it cannot be construed that non-
 disclosure of such information would result in more bad loans in the banking
 system. In effect, though the information about defaults are not shared with
 the public by RBI, efficient system has been put in place for disseminating the

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 13
 default status of borrowers amongst credit institutions so that they can take
 informed decisions in request for credit. 17. It is also submitted that Reserve Bank of India was collecting data of Non-
 suit-filed accounts (doubtful and loss accounts only) in respect of Wilful
 defaulters (25 lakh and above) and defaulters (1 crore and above) up to
 September 2014. From December 2014 onwards both non-suit-filed accounts
 and suit-filed accounts in respect of Wilful defaulters and defaulters is being
 collected and disseminated by the four Credit Information Companies which
 have been granted Certificate of Registration by the Reserve Bank of India in
 exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the Credit Information
 Companies (Regulations) Act, 2005 and the Rules and Regulations framed
 thereunder. [Master Circular on Wilful Defaulters
 DBR.No.CID.BC.22/20.16.003/2015-16 dated July 1, 2015. In short,
 banks/Financial Institutions have been advised to submit the data regarding
 defaulting borrowers to Credit Information Companies (CICs) and not to
 Reserve Bank of India from 2014 onwards. This is not to say that no willful
 defaulter information is coming to the Reserve Bank. A part of such
 information is reaching the Reserve Bank's data base called CRILIC and it is
 shared only among banks. 18. As regards the observations of Hon'ble CIC in Paragraph 22 of its order dated
 20.08.2018, it is submitted that in terms of para 4.2 (ii) of the Master Circular
 on Wilful Defaulters dated July 01, 2015, all Scheduled Commercial Banks
 (excluding RRBs) and All India Notified Financial Institutions (AIFI) have been
 advised to seriously and promptly consider initiating criminal action against
 willful defaulters or wrong certification by borrowers, wherever considered
 necessary, based on the facts and circumstances of each case. 19. It is further submitted that in a case pending before the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court of India (Civil Writ Petition No. 573 of 2003 - Centre for Public
 Interest Litigation v. HUDCO & Others), Reserve Bank has submitted a list
 of defaulters above Rs. 500/- crores in a sealed cover claiming that it may not
 be revealed to the public. As the matter relating to the disclosure of
 information of defaulters-including willful defaulters is still under the
 consideration of the Supreme Court, it may not be appropriate for the Reserve
 Bank to provide the requested information. 20. In view of the above submissions, it is respectfully prayed that this Hon'ble
 Commission may be pleased to accept the submissions contained in this reply
 and RBI may be discharged of all obligation under its order dated 20.08.2018. 23.The pleading of Mr Santosh Kumar Panigrahy of RBI that Section 22 will
 not override various laws he quoted prohibiting disclosure of names and
 details of willful defaulters and hence RBI should be discharged from the
 obligations of disclosure is against Section 22 of RTI Act. His contention
 that unless the above referred enactments were repealed, RBI cannot

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 14
 disclose the details of defaulters is also absurd. His another contention
 that pendency of PIL before the Supreme Court about this subject will
 prevent him from disclosure is also baseless as he did not present any
 interim order by Supreme Court preventing disclosure of wilful defaulters
 or against the proceedings before this Commission. These submissions of
 RBI shows that the legal wing of RBI did not bring to the notice of CPIO,
 that in RBI vs Jayanti Lal N Mistry, the division bench of the Supreme
 Court consisting of M Y Eqbat and C Nagappan, JJ, on 16th December 2015
 [Transferred Cases (Civil) Nos. 91 to 101 of 2015]
 (https://indiankanoon.org/doc/86904342/) gave a land mark decision upholding
 the direction of CIC to disclose inspection reports of RBI and names of
 willful defaulters, in many cases, rejecting all the above referred
 contentions of the RBI. In that case the Ld Counsel for RBI raised same
 contentions, referring to same cases as referred by Sri Panigrahy above,
 and those were straight away rejected by the Supreme Court. It is
 required to refer to contentions of RBI before Supreme Court: 24.Learned senior counsel for RBI, advocate Shri Andhyarujina put heavy
 reliance on the Full Bench decision of the Central Information
 Commissioner and submitted that while passing the impugned order, the
 Central Information Commissioner completely overlooked the Full Bench
 decision and ignored the same. According to the learned counsel, the
 Bench, which passed the impugned order, is bound to follow the Full
 Bench decision. He argued: It is significant to note that Section 28 of Banking Regulation
 Act, 1949 was amended by the Credit Information Companies
 (Regulation) Act, 2005 . This is a clear indication that the Right
 to Information Act, 2005 cannot override credit information
 sought by any person in contradiction to the statutory provisions
 for confidentiality. g) This is in addition to other statutory provisions of privacy in Section 44 of State Bank of India Act, 1955, Section 52 , State
 Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959, Section 13 of the
 Banking Companies (Acquisition & Transfer of Undertakings) Act,
 1970. h) A basic and long established common law proposition is that
 without the expressed or implied permission of a customer, a
 bank must not disclose either the state of the customer's
 account, any of his or her transactions with a bank, or any

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 16
 information related to the customer acquired by reason of
 keeping the account, subject to certain limited and defined
 exceptions. The decision in the case of Tournier v. National
 Provincial and Union Bank of England [1923] AII ER 550: (CIC decision dated 17.08.2007) observed as follows: k) Relying on this, the RBI CPIO reiterated: " Section 45E of the RBI
 Act relating to the confidentiality of credit information does not
 stand impliedly repealed by the provisions of Section 22 of the
 RTI Act. Then he said as per Master Circular on Willful Defaulters
 DBR. No. CID. BC.22/20.16.003/ 2015-16 dated July 1, 2015. In
 short, banks/Financial Institutions have been advised to submit
 the data regarding defaulting borrowers to Credit Information
 Companies (CICs) and not to Reserve Bank of India from 2014
 onwards. This is not to say that no willful defaulter information
 is coming to the Reserve Bank. A part of such information is
 reaching the Reserve Bank's data base called CRILIC and it is
 shared only among banks". Arguments for respondents in Jayantilal case 25.Mr. Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel appearing for the respondents
 argued: Supreme Court rejects contentions of RBI 26.The Right to Information Bill, 2004 says: "The categories of information
 exempted from disclosure are a bare minimum and are contained in
 clause 8 of the Bill. Even these exemptions are not absolute and access
 can be allowed to them in public interest if disclosure of the information
 outweighs the harm to the public authorities. Such disclosure has been
 permitted even if it is in conflict with the provisions of the Official Secrets
 Act, 1923 . Moreover, barring two categories that relate to information
 disclosure - which may affect sovereignty and integrity of India etc., or
 information relating to Cabinet papers etc.-all other categories of
 exempted information would be disclosed after twenty years". 27.Addressing the House, it was pointed out by the then Prime Minister that
 in our country, Government expenditure both at the Central and at the
 level of the States and local bodies, account for nearly 33% of our Gross

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 21
 National Product. At the same time, the socio-economic imperatives
 require our Government to intervene extensively in economic and social
 affairs. Therefore, the efficiency and effectiveness of the government
 processes are critical variables, which will determine how our Government
 functions and to what extent it is able to discharge the responsibilities
 entrusted. It was pointed out that there are widespread complaints in our
 country about wastefulness of expenditure, about corruption, and matter
 which have relations with the functioning of the Government. Therefore, it
 was very important to explore new effective mechanism to ensure that the
 Government will purposefully and effectively discharge the responsibilities
 entrusted to it. Finally the Right to Information Act was passed by the
 Parliament called " The Right to Information Act, 2005 ", with a Preamble
 explaining the objects. 28.After hearing extensive arguments of all the counsels appearing for the
 petitioner Banks and respondents and examined the law and the facts the
 Supreme Court in Jayantilal explained: In the instant case, the RBI does not place itself in a fiduciary
 relationship with the Financial institutions (though, in word
 it puts itself to be in that position) because, the reports of the
 inspections, statements of the bank, information related to the
 business obtained by the RBI are not under the pretext of
 confidence or trust. In this case neither the RBI nor the Banks act
 in the interest of each other. By attaching an additional "fiduciary"
 label to the statutory duty, the Regulatory authorities have
 intentionally or unintentionally created an in terrorem effect. RBI is a statutory body set up by the RBI Act as India's Central
 Bank. It is a statutory regulatory authority to oversee the
 functioning of the banks and the country's banking sector. Under Section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, RBI has been given

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 23
 powers to issue any direction to the banks in public interest, in the
 interest of banking policy and to secure proper management of a
 banking company. It has several other far- reaching statutory
 powers. RBI is supposed to uphold public interest and not the
 interest of individual banks. RBI is clearly not in any fiduciary
 relationship with any bank. RBI has no legal duty to maximize the
 benefit of any public sector or private sector bank, and thus there is
 no relationship of 'trust' between them. RBI has a statutory duty to
 uphold the interest of the public at large, the depositors, the
 country's economy and the banking sector. Thus, RBI ought to
 act with transparency and not hide information that might
 embarrass individual banks. It is duty bound to comply with the
 provisions of the RTI Act and disclose the information sought by the
 respondents herein. The baseless and unsubstantiated argument of the RBI
 that the disclosure would hurt the economic interest of the
 country is totally misconceived. In the impugned order, the CIC
 has given several reasons to state why the disclosure of the
 information sought by the respondents would hugely serve public
 interest, and non-disclosure would be significantly detrimental to
 public interest and not in the economic interest of India. RBI's
 argument that if people, who are sovereign, are made aware of the
 irregularities being committed by the banks then the country's
 economic security would be endangered, is not only absurd but is
 equally misconceived and baseless. The exemption contained in Section 8(1)(e) applies to
 exceptional cases and only with regard to certain pieces of
 information, for which disclosure is unwarranted or undesirable. If
 information is available with a regulatory agency not in fiduciary
 relationship, there is no reason to withhold the disclosure of the
 same. However, where information is required by mandate of law to
 be provided to an authority, it cannot be said that such information

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 24
 is being provided in a fiduciary relationship. As in the instant case,
 the Financial institutions have an obligation to provide all the
 information to the RBI and such an information shared
 under an obligation/ duty cannot be considered to come
 under the purview of being shared in fiduciary relationship.
 One of the main characteristic of a Fiduciary relationship is
 "Trust and Confidence". Something that RBI and the Banks
 lack between them. In the present case, we have to weigh between the public interest
 and fiduciary relationship (which is being shared between the RBI
 and the Banks). Since, RTI Act is enacted to empower the common
 people, the test to determine limits of Section 8 of RTI Act is
 whether giving information to the general public would be
 detrimental to the economic interests of the country? To what
 extent the public should be allowed to get information?
 In the context of above questions, it had long since come to our
 attention that the Public Information Officers (PIO) under
 the guise of one of the exceptions given under Section 8 of
 RTI Act, have evaded the general public from getting their
 hands on the rightful information that they are entitled to.
 And in this case the RBI and the Banks have sidestepped the
 General public's demand to give the requisite information on the
 pretext of "Fiduciary relationship" and "Economic Interest". This
 attitude of the RBI will only attract more suspicion and disbelief in
 them. RBI as a regulatory authority should work to make the Banks
 accountable to their actions. Furthermore, the RTI Act under Section 2(f) clearly provides that
 the inspection reports, documents etc. fall under the purview of
 "Information" which is obtained by the public authority (RBI) from a
 private body. From reading of the above section it can be inferred
 that the Legislature's intent was to make available to the general
 public such information which had been obtained by the public
 authorities from the private body. Had it been the case where only
 information related to public authorities was to be provided, the
 Legislature would not have included the word "private body". As in

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 25
 this case, the RBI is liable to provide information regarding
 inspection report and other documents to the general public.
 Even if we were to consider that RBI and the Financial Institutions
 shared a "Fiduciary Relationship", Section 2(f) would still make the
 information shared between them to be accessible by the public.
 The facts reveal that Banks are trying to cover up their underhand
 actions, they are even more liable to be subjected to public
 scrutiny. We have surmised that many Financial Institutions have resorted to
 such acts which are neither clean nor transparent. The RBI in
 association with them has been trying to cover up their acts from
 public scrutiny. It is the responsibility of the RBI to take rigid action
 against those Banks which have been practicing disreputable
 business practices. From the past we have also come across financial institutions which
 have tried to defraud the public. These acts are neither in the best
 interests of the Country nor in the interests of citizens. To our
 surprise, the RBI as a Watch Dog should have been more dedicated
 towards disclosing information to the general public under the Right
 to Information Act . We also understand that the RBI cannot be put in a fix, by making
 it accountable to every action taken by it. However, in the instant
 case the RBI is accountable and as such it has to provide
 information to the information seekers under Section 10(1) of the
 RTI Act. It was also contended by learned senior counsel for the RBI that
 disclosure of information sought for will also go against the
 economic interest of the nation. The submission is wholly
 misconceived. Economic interest of a nation in most common parlance is the goals
 which a nation wants to attain to fulfil its national objectives. It is
 the part of our national interest, meaning thereby national interest

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 26
 can't be seen with the spectacles (glasses) devoid of economic
 interest. It includes in its ambit a wide range of economic transactions or
 economic activities necessary and beneficial to attain the goals of a
 nation, which definitely includes as an objective economic
 empowerment of its citizens. It has been recognized and
 understood without any doubt now that one of the tool to attain this
 goal is to make information available to people. Because an
 informed citizen has the capacity to reasoned action and also to
 evaluate the actions of the legislature and executives, which is very
 important in a participative democracy and this will serve the
 nation's interest better which as stated above also includes its
 economic interests. Recognizing the significance of this tool it has
 not only been made one of the fundamental rights under Article 19 of the Constitution but also a Central Act has been brought into
 effect on 12th October 2005 as the Right to Information Act, 2005 . The ideal of 'Government by the people' makes it necessary that
 people have access to information on matters of public concern.
 The free flow of information about affairs of Government paves way
 for debate in public policy and fosters accountability in Government.
 It creates a condition for 'open governance' which is a foundation of
 democracy. But neither the Fundamental Rights nor the Right to Information
 have been provided in absolute terms. The fundamental rights
 guaranteed under Article 19 Clause 1(a) are restricted under Article
 19 clause 2 on the grounds of national and societal interest.
 Similarly Section 8 , clause 1 of Right to Information Act, 2005 ,
 contains the exemption provisions where right to information can
 be denied to public in the name of national security and
 sovereignty, national economic interests, relations with foreign
 states etc. Thus, not all the information that the Government
 generates will or shall be given out to the public. It is true that
 gone are the days of closed doors policy making and they are not

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 27
 acceptable also but it is equally true that there are some
 information which if published or released publicly, they might
 actually cause more harm than good to our national interest... if not
 domestically it can make the national interests vulnerable
 internationally and it is more so possible with the dividing line
 between national and international boundaries getting blurred in
 this age of rapid advancement of science and technology and global
 economy. It has to be understood that rights can be enjoyed
 without any inhibition only when they are nurtured within protective
 boundaries. Any excessive use of these rights which may lead to
 tampering these boundaries will not further the national interest.
 And when it comes to national economic interest, disclosure of
 information about currency or exchange rates, interest rates, taxes,
 the regulation or supervision of banking, insurance and other
 financial institutions, proposals for expenditure or borrowing and
 foreign investment could in some cases harm the national economy,
 particularly if released prematurely. However, lower level economic
 and financial information, like contracts and departmental budgets
 should not be withheld under this exemption. This makes it
 necessary to think when or at what stage an information is to be
 provided i.e., the appropriate time of providing the information
 which will depend on nature of information sought for and the
 consequences it will lead to after coming in public domain" -
 explained the Supreme Court. 29.The Supreme Court referred to a case, where the respondent S.S. Vohra
 sought certain information in relation to the Patna Branch of ICICI Bank
 and advisory issued to the Hong Kong Branch of ICICI Bank. The
 contention of the respondent was that the Finance Minister had made a
 written statement on the floor of the House on 24.07.2009 that some
 banks like SBI, ICICI, Bank of Baroda, Dena Bank etc., were violating
 FEMA Guidelines for opening of accounts and categorically mentioned that
 the Patna Branch of ICICI Bank Ltd. had opened some fictitious accounts
 which were opened by fraudsters and hence an advisory note was issued
 to the concerned branch on December 2007 for its irregularities. The

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 28
 Finance Minister even mentioned that in the year 2008 the ICICI Bank
 Ltd. was also warned for alleged irregular dealings in securities in Hong
 Kong. Hence, the respondent sought such advisory note as issued by the
 RBI to ICICI Bank. The Central Information Commissioner in the
 impugned order considered the RBI Master Circular dated 01.07.2009 to
 all the commercial banks giving various directions and finally held as
 under :- The Supreme Court further said: "This is a matter of concern since it
 involves the violation of policy Guidelines initiated by the RBI and affects
 the public at large. Transparency cannot be brought overnight in any
 system and one can hope to witness accountability in a system only when
 its end users are well- educated, well-informed and well-aware. If the
 customers of commercial banks will remain oblivious to the violations of
 RBI Guidelines and standards which such banks regularly commit, then

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 29
 eventually the whole financial system of the country would be at a
 monumental loss. This can only be prevented by suo motu disclosure of
 such information as the penalty orders are already in public domain." 30.Supreme Court referred to another case where the respondent Jayantilal
 N. Mistry sought information from the CPIO, RBI in respect of a
 Cooperative Bank viz. Saraspur Nagrik Sahkari Bank Limited related to
 inspection report, which was denied by the CPIO on the ground that the
 information contained therein were received by RBI in a fiduciary capacity
 and are exempt under Section 8(1)(e) of RTI Act. The CIC directed the
 petitioner to furnish that information since the RBI expressed their
 willingness to disclose a summary of substantive part of the inspection
 report to the respondent. While disposing of the appeal the CIC
 observed:- 31.In Jayantilal case the Supreme Court referred to another important
 decision of the CIC, in which Mr. P.P. Kapoor, like Sanjeev Singh Jadaun,

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 30
 appellant in this case sought for information inter alia about the details of
 default in loans taken from public sector banks by industrialists, out of the
 list of defaulters, top 100 defaulters, names of the businessmen, firm
 name, principal amount, interest amount, date of default and date of
 availing the loan etc. The CPIO denied information claiming that it was
 held in fiduciary capacity and was exempt under Sections 8(1)(a) and (e)
 of the RTI Act . First Appellate Authority confirmed the CPIO's decision. In
 second appeal Ld Information Commissioner Sri Shailesh Gandhi rejected
 the ground under S 8(1)(e) saying: 32.It is important to note that the Supreme Court specifically referred to CIC
 decision in PP Kapoor case and endorsed the views quoting above quoted

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 34
 nine paragraphs of Shailesh Gandhi saying "learned CIC rightly
 observed..." and rejected the contentions of the RBI, that were raised in
 second appeal and all other writ petitions. 33.It is unfortunate that RBI is still raising same grounds to deny the
 information people are entitled to know ignoring emphatic rejection of
 those grounds by Supreme Court in subsequent second appeals like this. The Commission holds: 34.This decision of CIC in PK Saha case referred above is blatantly against
 the provisions of RTI Act and contrary to the objectives and intention of
 the Parliament in passing this profound legislation which was effectively
 dismissed by the Supreme Court's judgment in Jayantilal. After this
 landmark order, the Saha decision of CIC is absolutely irrelevant. The CIC
 decision in a second appeal does not have effect as precedent because
 that decision binds only the parties concerned. It does not have even
 persuasive value because that is totally in contradiction to written text of RTI Act and also the precedent created by SC in Jayantilal, in which it was
 rightly pointed out that the RTI Act section 8(2) and Section 22 clearly
 override all other legislations which conflict with the provisions of this
 access law. The CPIO ignored his duty to follow the order of Supreme
 Court in Jayanti Lal case in 2015. 35.RBI CPIO says that several enactments and their secrecy provisions were
 not repealed either expressly or impliedly. It is nobody's argument that
 those laws are repealed. Even Official Secrets Act 1923 was not repealed.
 The crimes of breach of secrecy of security information are being
 prosecuted under that law. The RTI Act did not repeal them. But as far as
 disclosure request that is before the Commission is concerned, the secrecy
 or confidentiality clauses get overridden by the transparency and
 restriction clauses of RTI Act . That means if there is a request for
 information that could not be given by the other legislations, the CPIO has
 to act not under those Acts but should consider the content of request
 under RTI Act , examine the request on the yardstick of Section 8 or 9 of RTI Act and nothing else. Hence all the provisions of law quoted by RBI

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 35
 CPIO remain on the statute, did not get repealed to much delight and
 pleasure of CPIO of RBI, but on RTI request, the disclosures could be
 considered subject to exceptions under RTI Act only. Surprisingly the CPIO
 did not plead any exception under Section 8 or 9 to deny the information
 directed by this Commission. Does CPIO know the RTI Act ? Should he not
 read and understand the Supreme Court order in Jayantilal N Mistry case?
 And even after 2015 order of Supreme Court in Jayantilal, the CPIO relied
 on pre-Independence decisions and 2007 order of CIC which is per in
 curium. 36.It is necessary to educate the CPIOs of RBI (including this CPIO) and
 other banks about the salient features of SC order in Jayantilal. The RBI's
 learned Counsel presented the following argument before SC challenging
 various orders of disclosures by CIC. It is astonishing that CPIO of RBI
 does not know that in their own case the Supreme Court rejected RBI
 arguments and confirmed the decision of CIC directing disclosure of
 details defaulters of bank loans. If he wilfully suppressed such a
 significant decision to mislead the Commission, it is unparadonable
 misconduct. According to Article 141 of the Constitution of India, the
 decision of the Supreme Court on merits of the case will be declaration of
 law that forms valid precedent. The precedent established by judiciary is
 having equal effect as an enactment of Parliament. Ignorance of law is no
 excuse- ignoransia juris non excusat. Whether CPIO is ignorant of this
 also? The Commission recommends disciplinary action against Mr
 Panigrahy and chose an efficient person as CPIO who knows the law laid
 down by Supreme Court and does not suppress information from the
 Commission and the people, in his place. After reading the futile
 contentions of the CPIO, which were rejected by the Supreme Court when
 pleaded by senior and eminent counsel Sri Andhyarujina, the Commission
 doubts whether SC order in Jayanthilal was implemented. In that case SC
 has confirmed the order of CIC for disclosure of defaulters of banks and as
 per the PP Kapoor, appellant's request, the RBI is expected to place those
 details on the website as per mandate of Section 4(1)(b) of RTI Act. 37.Apart from legal duty to give hisaab of every paisa to aam janata of this
 democracy, there is a social and economic need to be transparent in

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 36
 dealing with bad loans and wilful defaulters in the financial health
 interests of the nation. If RBI fails to see any public interest behind this
 information request, it will be blind for ever to understand the find what is
 in best economic interest of the nation which would amount dereliction of
 Constitutional responsibility of independent regulatory institution. 38.On February 9, 2016 it was reported that In response to an RTI
 application filed by The Indian Express, the RBI disclosed that while bad
 debts stood at Rs 15,551 crore for the financial year ending March 2012,
 they had shot up by over three times to Rs 52,542 crore by the end of
 March 2015. Twenty-nine state-owned banks wrote off a total of Rs 1.14
 lakh crore of bad debts between financial years 2013 and 2015, much
 more than they had done in the preceding nine years. It was also
 reported: Asked about the details of the biggest defaulters, whether
 individuals or business entities, whose bad debts to the tune of Rs 100
 crore or more had been written off, the RBI said: "The required
 information is not available with us". The following table explains: 39. This writing off has further increased. As per RBI data, between April 2014
 and April 2018, the country's 21 State-owned banks ended up writing off
 Rs 3,16,500 crore of loans even as they recovered Rs 44,900 crore,
 written off on a cumulative basis -- or less than one-seventh the write-off
 amount. .. To put this number in perspective, the amount of bad loans
 written off by public sector banks (PSBs) during the four-year period is

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 37
 well over twice the projected budgetary expenditure on health, education
 and social protection for 2018-19, at Rs 1.38 lakh crore. (Source: 40.This newspaper has secured some more details under the Right to
 Information (RTI) Act , showing that non-performing assets (NPAs) or bad
 loans of micro and small units -- where the investment in plant and
 machinery is above Rs 25 lakh but does not exceed Rs 5 crore -- rose
 from Rs 82,382 crore to Rs 98,500 crore by March 2018. In response, the
 RBI said that the bulk of loan defaults, which rose from March 2017, is
 accounted by public sector banks which had a share of 65.32 per cent in
 outstanding loans to small units, down from 66.61 per cent in the
 previous year. This table shows the growth of NPA and total amount of loans. (Source: https://indianexpress.com/article/business/banking-and-finance/rbi-loan-defaults-by-small-
 businesses-double-in-a-year-demonetisation-goods-and-services-tax-5336577/)

Parliamentary Standing Committee questions RBI 41.Can RBI escape from its role in this situation? A Parliamentary committee
 has questioned RBI for failing to take preemptive action in checking bad
 loans in the banking system. The panel headed by Mr. Veerappa Moily,
 which includes former prime minister Manmohan Singh as a member,
 wanted to know the reasons of ever-greening of stressed accounts
 through restructuring schemes of the Reserve Bank of India. The news

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 38
 media reported that issue of rising non performing assets (NPAs) or bad
 loans is a legacy issue and role of RBI has not been up to the mark and
 NPAs in public sector banks (PSBs) increased by about Rs 6.2 lakh crore
 between March 2015 and March 2018. (source: http://www.newindianexpress.com/business/2018/aug/27/parliamentary-panel-questions-rbi-on-
 failure-to-take-action-against-bad-loans-1863506.html) 42.Shri Raghuram Rajan, former Governor of RBI, on question how
 important was malfeasance and corruption in the NPA problem, said: 43.To another question- did the RBI create the NPAs? Shri Raghuram Rajan
 explained the role as follows: "Bankers, promoters, or their backers in
 government sometimes turn around and accuse regulators of creating the
 bad loan problem. The truth is bankers, promoters, and circumstances
 create the bad loan problem. The regulator cannot substitute for the
 banker's commercial decisions or micromanage them or even investigate
 them when they are being made. Instead, in most situations, the
 regulator can at best warn about poor lending practices when they are
 being undertaken, and demand banks hold adequate risk buffers." 44.The Reserve Bank of India has issued a circular on February 12 circular on
 restructuring bad loans which mandated banks to take loan accounts
 which remain unresolved for over 180 days, to the National Company Law
 Tribunal (NCLT) under the Indian Bankruptcy Code IBC. It is reported in
 media on 25th August 2018 that as much as Rs 3 lakh crore worth of
 loans of 70-80 companies is likely to come in for resolution under the
 IBC. The RBI had recently reviewed around 200 stressed assets of top
 business groups to assess the status of their classification and
 provisioning, and identify companies that would require resolution under
 the IBC. Most of these accounts, with value above Rs 2,000 crore each,
 have been declared as non-performing assets (NPAs) by banks and are
 required to be referred to the NCLT. Banks and other creditors recovered
 nearly 55 per cent of the total claims in the 32 cases that have been
 resolved under the IBC till June-end, including from large accounts such
 as Bhushan Steel and Electrosteel Steels, as per the latest data available
 with the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India. Financial and
 operational creditors could recover around Rs 49,800 crore out of the total
 claims of Rs 90,000 crore in these 32 companies. (https://indianexpress.com/article/business/economy/rbi-circular-on-bad-loans-rs-3-lakh-
 crore-loans-to-come-under-ibc-for-resolution-5323977/)

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 40 45.As a regulatory of banks, the RBI has a duty to regulate the lending and
 recovery aspects, which include managing recovery as depicted in above
 paragraph. It has a duty to explain effect of such policies and measures. If
 such steps are not taken for any reason with regard to certain companies
 defaulting in paying thousands of crores worth loans. If this is the case
 why the RBI does not allow the public scrutiny by giving out the
 information about the defaulters and defects? When the nation is loosing
 lakhs of crores of rupees, how can RBI or any other bank hide the
 information behind the iron wall of secrecy on the grounds of
 'commercially confidential or competitive information or fiduciary
 information? Thus Commission finds no merit in RBI's argument against
 disclosure. When farmers die of shame for recovering a small loan by
 banks while writing off lakhs of crore of rupees to clean their balance
 sheets, why banks think that it their legitimate duty not to shame wilful
 defaulters by exposing their names? It's an absurd and irresponsible
 argument reflecting anti-farmer and pro-rich bias of bankers. They have
 to try transparency as a method to compel wilful defaulters to pay back
 public debts. RBI and other banks are servants of the public and their
 masters have every right to know how their money is being drained in the
 form of written off loans and bad debts. [Edited excerpts from a 'Note to
 Parliamentary Estimates Committee on Bank NPAs' prepared by former
 RBI Governor Prof Raghuram G Rajan on Sept 6 at request of Chairman of
 the Parliament Estimates Committee, Dr Murli Manohar Joshi]
 (source: https://indianexpress.com/article/explained/raghuram-rajan-bad-loans-npa- indian- banking-system-economy-5351347/) 46. A media website, The Wire sought under RTI application with the Prime
 Minister's Office, the Finance Ministry about the claim that former RBI
 Governor Sri Raghuram Rajan had made in his note to a parliamentary
 committee that he had handed over "a list of high profile fraud cases of
 non-performing assets to the Prime Minister's Office for coordinated
 investigation." The RBI informed that Rajan's letter to the PMO about the
 defaulters suspected of fraud was written on February 4, 2015 and a copy
 was given to Finance Minister also. Rajan had also conveyed to the PMO
 how 'unscrupulous promoters' had inflated the cost of capital equipment

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 41
 using over-invoicing of imports. (https://thewire.in/political-economy/exclusive-rti- confirms-raghuram-rajan-sent-pmo-list-of-npa-defaulters-no-action-taken) 47.The Indian Bankruptcy Code (IBC) was put in place in May 2016 and in
 the first year itself thousands of crores of rupees worth loan matters are
 dealt with. The Act of the IBC was amended through a Bill that prohibits
 certain persons from submitting a resolution plan in case of defaults.
 These include: (i) willful defaulters, (ii) promoters or management of the
 company if it has an outstanding non-performing debt for over a year, and (iii) disqualified directors, among others. Further, it bars the sale of
 property of a defaulter to such persons during liquidation. All these
 processes of adjudication will not happen in closed doors. There the
 adjudicators have to openly discuss the names and their bankruptcy
 details. Their details cannot be hidden on any excuse. Similarly the debt
 recovery tribunals also have to discuss the names of the defaulters and
 amounts of bad loans to fix the liabilities and recover. If the litigation
 reaches the courts or any other tribunals also the names are not hidden.
 Except the alternative dispute process like negotiation or mediation where
 the details are not exposed, no other information about the bad debt is
 hidden. It is futile for RBI or any other bank to argue that names of
 defaulters and defaulted amounts are confidential or fiduciary or some
 other of secret. 48.The Governor of RBI, Mr. Urjit R Patel, speaking on September 20, 2018
 at Central Vigilance Commission, said that guidelines on vigilance, issued
 by the CVC, are aimed at greater transparency, promoting a culture of
 honesty and probity in public life, and improving the overall vigilance
 administration in the organisations within its purview. Thus the Governor's
 speech emphasized transparency as an important aspect of vigilance.
 https://rbidocs.rbi.org.in/rdocs/Speeches/PDFs/CVCD1939C8177BE443E5
 87735B76A030BF37.PDF. N. S. Vishwanathan, Deputy Governor, Reserve
 Bank of India, on April 18, 2018 said in his speech on topic "It is not
 Business as Usual for Lenders and Borrowers" delivered at National
 Institute of Bank Management, Pune on Fourteenth Convocation, that the
 NPAs went up from 4.62% in 2014-15 to 7.79% in 2015-16, and were as
 high as 10.41% by December 2017. He pointed out that the amendments
 to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 empowering the Reserve Bank to

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 42
 direct banks to refer specific cases of default for resolution under IBC
 were a clear indication that an external nudge was required for banks to
 file insolvency application against large borrowers.
 https://rbi.org.in/Scripts/BS_SpeechesView.aspx?Id=1055. 49.While questions of law were as discussed above, the facts also are not in
 favour of the RBI as far as their claims against disclosure are concerned.
 Their contention on confidentiality cannot be accepted because none
 sought for confidential customer's information, if any. None is asking for
 information about every customer who took loan but paying back
 sincerely. The most important question which the RBI ignored is when
 hundreds of crores of rupees of public money is not repaid by a loanee,
 how that became confidential customer's information? The RBI or other
 banks need not give personal details of the willful defaulters like their
 addresses, but why not they disclose the names of willful defaulters and
 amount they fell due, besides measures, if any, being taken to recover the
 money that belonged to people? Every evasion of loan is misappropriation
 of public money, which public have a right to know. Vibrant citizens have
 a democratic duty to scrutinize the way huge loans are being granted
 without securing them properly. It is an issue of financial administration,
 governance of public money and finally the people are affected by these
 maladies. The RBI, being a regulatory of banking activities have no legal
 duty to protect the interests of willful defaulters or their reputation
 misquoting all the provisions of law, which cannot be invoked. It is
 unfortunate that Banks and Government are waging legal wars on the
 citizens who are seeking information to protect the names and other
 details of willful defaulters, despite land mark judgment of Supreme Court
 directing them to abide by the RTI Act . 50.Why the RBI is fighting tooth and nail to defend defaulters saying, failure
 to repay the dues by the borrower does not always reflect as a 'willful
 intent' as to non-payment? There can be various reasons for default.
 Although some of these reasons are within the control of the promoter,
 some of them may not be within his control. Some defaults occur even
 with the best intent, some are malafide in nature. Disclosing the details of
 accounts where defaults have been found irrespective of the reasons,

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 43
 therefore, may have an adverse impact for the business and in a way
 may accentuate the failure of the business rather than nurse it back to'
 health. While sharing such information among banks helps to address bad
 behavior from borrowers, putting it in public domain does not necessarily
 serve the same purpose. This contention is absolutely unreasonable and
 not provided by any legal foundation. If the RBI is sure that all defaulters
 are not willful defaulters, they can segregate the class of wilful defaulters
 and provide their details to the public. The ground that disclosure may
 have adverse impact on their business is hypothetical and runs against
 fair and transparent financial administration norms. If they are sure that
 some disclosure would cause adverse affect they have to convince the
 Commission about the same and if Commission is satisfied, it can permit
 the RBI to hide it, but RBI cannot build iron walls around wilful defaulters
 on this loose and baseless assumption of adverse impact on business.
 Does RBI has responsibility of protecting business interests of defaulters
 at the cost of national financial discipline and economic stability? The
 Commission feels deeply pained at this kind of litigation by Government
 and RBI against the people and CIC on an issue of transparency in the
 name of unfounded confidentiality. 51.The RBI claims under its RTI policy that it has been proactively
 disseminating information, not only in compliance with the requirements
 of the Act, but also with the objective of achieving better corporate
 governance through greater transparency and accountability. Under
 'disclosure policy' they have 115 plus classes of huge information not to
 be disclosed including inspection reports, in spite of elaborate judgment of
 SC in Jayantilal case rejecting all contentions of the RBI, very sad.
 Nowhere had they disclosed the increasing debt burden, bad debts, willful
 defaulters, measures taken to recovery etc. Naming of willful defaulters
 did not happen in spite of CIC orders, even after they were upheld by the
 Supreme Court, very unfortunate. 52.The policy of disclosure of RBI in its RTI wing still shows at point 11 that
 Inspection reports of authorized entities is exempted u/s 8(1)(a) and (d).
 Under head of Banking Service Activities RBI declared that it will not
 disclose inspection reports. Even vigilance audit report will not be
 disclosed u/s 8(1) (a) , (g) & (i) of Right to Information Act, 2005 CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 44
 (Source: https://www.rbi.org.in/Scripts/bs_viewcontent.aspx?Id=2347)
 This means the RBI is not honouring the judgment of Honourable
 Supreme Court in Jayantilal case explained above. RBI cannot forget or
 ignore the mandate given by Supreme Court in following para: Thus, RBI ought to act with transparency and not hide information that
 might embarrass individual banks. It is duty bound to' comply with the
 provisions of the RTI Act and disclose the information sought by the
 respondents." 53.The Commission noticed the disclosures under Section 4(1)(b) contains
 more non-disclosure related declarations which are contradictory to the
 exceptions claimed. Obligation to disclose under S 4 is not subjected to
 any exceptions. Each request has to be examined in the context of
 claimed exception. For instance one cannot reject enbloc the request for
 documents during pendency of inquiry or investigation unless it is proved
 that the documents sought would impede those processes. The RBI
 declared that such information will not be given. The entire non-disclosure
 policies declared under the name of disclosure' is thus flawed and requires
 in depth examination and correction. The Commission invoking its
 authority under Section 19(8) requires the RBI to review, revise and
 reform their section 4(1)(b) disclosures in tune with the RTI Act , as soon
 as possible but not later than 45 days. The Commission directs the
 CPIOs of the RBI, the PMO and office of the Finance Minister to
 explain the action taken on the alerting letter written by Former Governor
 of RBI Raghuram Rajan on February 5, 2015, before November 16, 2018. 54.The Commission directs Mr. Panigrahy to file a compliance report along
 with proof that RBI has supplied the information to PP Kapoor and placed
 the list of defaulters on their official website as per orders of CIC as
 confirmed by the Supreme Court in Jayantilal case, within five days,
 failing which the Commission shall initiate penal proceedings against him. CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 45 55.The Commission feels that there is no match between what RBI
 Governor and Deputy Governor say and their website regarding their RTI
 policy, and great secrecy of vigilance reports and inspection reports is
 being maintained with impunity in spite of Supreme Court confirming the
 orders of CIC in Jayantilal case. However the Commission considers that it
 does not serve any purpose in punishing the CPIO for this defiance,
 because he acts under the instructions of the top authorities. The
 Commission has no alternative except to hold the Governor Mr Urjit R
 Patel and other officers of top management of this esteemed institution
 for dis-hounoring the judgment and directions of Supreme Court. The
 Commission considers the Governor as deemed PIO responsible
 for non-disclosure and defiance of SC orders and CIC orders and
 directs him to show cause why maximum penalty should not be
 imposed on him for these reasons, before November 16, 2018. The
 Commission, considering that it is the duty and function of the
 Commission as a whole to secure compliance of its orders, directs the
 concerned administrative officers of the Central Information Commission
 to explore possibilities enforcing the orders of learned Information
 Commissioner Shailesh Gandhi taken in appeal up to Supreme Court by
 the RBI, who lost all their cases and contentions, taking appropriate legal
 measures including the action for contempt of Supreme Court against the
 top management of the RBI. If the banking regulatory like RBI will not
 honour the Constitutional Institutions directions, what will be the effect of
 Constitution on securing Rule of Law? The Commission recommends the
 RBI governor to remember once, at least one of the 3 lakh farmer dying in
 the field as he failed to sustain his crop or to sell his produce for
 appropriate price and hence could not pay of the debt before defying the
 transparency law and directions and discontinue the non-disclosure policy
 which will seriously harm of the economy of this nation, immediately. 56.The Commission finds no merit in hiding the names of, details
 and action against willful defaulters of big bad loans worth
 hundreds of crores of rupees. The RBI shall disclose the bad debt
 details of defaulters worth more than 1000 crore at the beginning,

CIC/DGEAT/A/2018/117567 Page 46
 of Rs 500 crore or less at later stage within five days and collect
 such information from the banks in due course to update their
 voluntary disclosures from time to time as a practice under Section
 4(1)(b) of RTI Act. Appeal is posted on 16th November 2018 for
 compliance and penal proceedings. SD/-