1. This hearing has been done through hybrid mode. 2. The present petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India read
 with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 was filed seeking
 issuance of a writ in the nature of habeas corpus for production of the
 Petitioner's missing son. Background: 3. The matter has been considered on several dates wherein the Court has
 been apprised of the steps taken by the concerned investigative agency for
 tracing the missing boy. Accordingly, on 19th September, 2024 the Court was
 informed that one of the leads found by the concerned Investigating Officer
 was that the missing boy had recently used his Instagram account.
 Considering the nature of the matter, the Court issued notice to Meta
 Platforms (hereinafter "Meta") and directed as under: 4. Pursuant to the above order, ld. Counsel for Meta had entered
 appearance on the next date of hearing i.e., 20th September, 2024. Ld.
 Counsel had submitted that the information, as requested by the investigating
 authorities, had been duly provided by Meta through the platform usually
 accessed by Law Enforcement Agencies (hereinafter "LEAs") for obtaining
 information. After hearing parties, this Court was of the view that in several
 such cases involving missing persons, there appears to be a lag in receiving
 information from the concerned social media platforms and other IT
 intermediaries (hereinafter collectively "Intermediaries") during which
 precious time is lost in tracing the missing person. In order to ensure that there
 is no delay or lag in receiving information, as and when required by the LEAs,
 from Intermediaries some steps were required to be taken. Accordingly, the
 Court on 20th September, 2024 issued notices to various Intermediaries and
 directed as under: 5. On 8th October, 2024, a status report on behalf of the Deputy
 Commissioner of Police, Legal Division, PHQ, New Delhi was placed on
 record. Further, on the said date, the concerned Nodal Officer from the
 Ministry of Home Affairs (hereinafter "MHA") also informed the Court that
 the MHA also wishes to place on record the issues which they face dealing
 with platforms and their suggestions in this regard. Accordingly, the Court
 directed various Intermediaries and other parties to file their respective
 standard operating procedures along with their submissions qua the manner
 in which requests from LEAs are dealt with by them. The relevant paragraphs
 of the said order read as under; 6. Pursuant to the above directions, several Intermediaries including M/s
 Google LLC (hereinafter "Google"), Meta, WhatsApp LLC (hereinafter
 "WhatsApp") and Telegram FZ LLC (hereinafter "Telegram") had filed their
 respective written submissions. In addition, Mr. Sanjay Lao, ld. Standing
 Counsel for the State, had placed on record a note on behalf of the Special
 Cell, Delhi Police, enumerating the challenges and issues faced by LEAs in
 seeking information from Intermediaries. The said note also identified
 specific grievances of LEAs against various Intermediaries in respect of
 obtaining information from the said entities. Further, the issues faced in
 receiving information from telecom service providers were also highlighted
 in the said note. 7. The Court had perused the affidavits/ submissions filed by various
 Intermediaries and it was noted that the same do not provide the period within
 which the said entities usually respond to a request for information from the
 LEAs. The Court expressed concern that despite the provisions under the IT
 (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021
 (hereinafter "Intermediary Rules, 2021") requiring them to respond to any
 request for information within an upper limit of 72 hours, the said upper limit
 cannot be considered as a norm in each case. Further, this Court was of the
 view that the entire process, including the human to human interaction, needs W.P.(CRL) 1563/2024 Page 6 of 26 Signature Not Verified Signed By:RAHUL Signing Date:22.03.2025 15:40:26 to be made simpler and robust enough to facilitate live interaction between
 the Intermediaries and LEAs. Accordingly, the Court had vide order dated
 28th October, 2024 observed as under: Position of the Intermediaries 8. On 13th November, 2024, various Intermediaries made submissions
 before the Court including Meta, WhatsApp, Telegram, Google and Reddit.
 The Court was informed that each platform has its own system for receiving
 and responding to requests for information by LEAs, such as the Law
 Enforcement Online Request Systems ('LEORS') operated by Meta. It was
 the common stand of all the platforms that any request for information qua
 emergency situations such as bomb threats etc. are dealt with in an expeditious
 manner and the time limit of 72 hours under the Intermediary Rules, 2021 is
 not treated as the norm for responding to such requests. The said platforms
 informed the Court that they are willing to extend complete co-operation to
 LEAs for training and preparation of any material for optimal utilization of
 the information request systems. The relevant portion of the order dated 13th
 November, 2024 reads as under: According to Google, it has created a dedicated
 platform for the Indian Government even for content
 removal. A PPT document has been handed over by ld.
 Counsel showing the manner in which the requests can
 be submitted in the LERS. 10. Similarly, on behalf of Reddit Inc., the submissions
 which have been filed show that in case of emergency
 involving imminent death or serious bodily harm or
 other emergencies, there are separate processes put in
 place for seeking information by Law Enforcement
 Agencies. 11. As on today, the current status is that most of the
 platforms are unanimous on the position that when there
 are emergency requests made by Law Enforcement
 Agencies, the deadline of 72 hours, which is prescribed
 in the Rule 3(1)(j) of the Information Technology
 (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics
 Code) Rules, 2021, is merely treated as a maximum time
 and in most case of emergencies, the same are dealt with
 and information is provided as quickly as possible. 12. It is also not disputed by any of the platforms present
 before this Court that complete cooperation would have
 to be rendered to Law Enforcement Agencies whenever
 information is sought, especially when the same relates
 to serious crimes. 13. The Platforms express their clear intent to work with
 the agencies for the purpose of training and preparation
 of any material that may enable all the features on their
 platform to be utilised to the fullest possible extent." 'SAHYOG' Portal 9. Further, on 13th November, 2024, the ld. CGSC appearing for the
 MHA and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (hereinafter
 "Meity") had sought time to compile the current position and the manner in
 which the MHA would prefer coordinating with the Intermediaries for dealing
 with requests of LEAs. Considering the same, the Court had directed MHA to
 place on record a status report by the next date of hearing. 10. Accordingly, a status report dated 10th December, 2024 was placed on
 record by the MHA on 11th December, 2024. As per the said report the nodal
 agency under the MHA dealing with cyber crime complaints and for
 coordination with all intermediaries is the Indian Cyber Crime
 Coordination Centre (hereinafter "I4C"). The said report also highlighted
 the number and nature of offences reported on the National Cyber Reporting
 Platform (hereinafter "NCRP") as also the issues which have been raised by
 the nodal officers of States and Union Territories. 11. Further, as per the said report MHA was developing a common portal
 called 'SAHYOG' to which all authorised agencies of Central Government, W.P.(CRL) 1563/2024 Page 12 of 26 Signature Not Verified Signed By:RAHUL Signing Date:22.03.2025 15:40:26 States and UTs as also the Intermediaries will have joint access. The first
 phase of the portal focused on taking down unlawful content and the second
 phase would be for extending the functionality to include lawful information
 requests from LEAs. The relevant paragraphs of the status report qua
 SAHYOG portal are extracted hereunder: Initially, I4C, MHA will process requests through the
 portal, and in a phased manner, this facility will be
 extended to all States/UTs. So far, 09 IT intermediaries
 have been onboarded such as Josh, Quora, Telegram,
 Amazon, Apple, Google, YouTube, PI Data Center and
 Sharechat on the portal. The LEA's of 16 State/UTs have
 notified the nodal officers/authorized agency under Section 79(3)(b) of the IT Act, 2000 for the takedown of
 unlawful content. The remaining 20 States/UTs are yet
 to notify their nodal officers. The other remaining IT
 Intermediaries have also been requested to be onboard
 at the SAHYOG portal and LEAs of States/UTs who W.P.(CRL) 1563/2024 Page 13 of 26 Signature Not Verified Signed By:RAHUL Signing Date:22.03.2025 15:40:26 have not yet notified authorized agencies were
 requested to expedite the notification of authorized
 officers as per the provisions of Section 7993)(b). In
 Phase II, the portal's functionality will be expanded to
 include lawful data requests and other similar
 submissions. This initiative will enable transparent and
 effective monitoring of LEA requests and will ensure
 timely compliance by IT intermediaries. It is expected to
 curtail the delay in receiving data from IT
 Intermediaries." 12. The Court was also informed that few of the Intermediaries have held
 meetings with I4C. Ld. Counsels for X Corp. (earlier Twitter) and LinkedIn
 had submitted that the said platforms did not receive any request from I4C,
 however, they would be willing to hold meetings to resolve any technical
 issues. Thus, the Court directed that a meeting be held between I4C officials
 and Intermediaries as also X Corp and LinkedIn. It was also clarified that in
 case there are any issues that remain unresolved, the parties may place the
 same on record by way of an affidavit. 13. Today, further to the previous order dated 11th December, 2024, a
 detailed status report has been filed by the I4C, MHA. The Court has also
 heard the submissions of the ld. Counsel appearing for the MHA as also Mr.
 Jitender Singh, ACP from I4C who is present in Court. A further status report
 dated 29th January, 2025 has been filed on behalf of MHA and the Court has
 perused the same. 14. As per the submissions made and the status report which has been
 placed on record, the following facts can be gleaned: 15. The report also states that all States and Union Territories as also two
 central agencies namely the Ministry of Finance (DGGI) and the Ministry of
 Defence have notified the authorised agency/nodal officers under Section
 79(3)(b) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (hereinafter " IT Act ") and they
 have also onboarded on the SAHYOG portal. It is, further, submitted that the
 phase two development of the portal for data disclosure requests is also
 underway. Mr. Jitender Singh, ACP from the I4C submits that within a month
 this development would also be concluded for data disclosure requests. 16. Insofar as Meta is concerned, Mr. Arvind Datar Sr. Adv., and Mr. Kapil
 Sibal Sr. Adv., appearing for Facebook and Whatsapp respectively, submit that
 the process of API integration for both Facebook and WhatsApp is underway and
 the same would be concluded very soon. Issues of X Corp (earlier Twitter) qua SAHYOG Portal 17. Insofar as X Corp (earlier Twitter) is concerned, they have taken the
 position vide letter dated 11th November, 2024 submitted to I4C that in view of
 the law declared by the Supreme Court in Shreya Singal v. Union of India , 2015
 (5) SCC 1, the SAHYOG portal would fall outside the statutory scheme of Section W.P.(CRL) 1563/2024 Page 19 of 26 Signature Not Verified Signed By:RAHUL Signing Date:22.03.2025 15:40:26 69 A of the IT Act . It is their case that the said portal would create a parallel
 mechanism to the existing mechanism under Section 69A of the IT Act albeit
 without any procedures or safeguards. Thus, it is stated that X Corp cannot be
 compelled to come on the SAHYOG portal. It is also stated that X Corp has its
 own portal to process valid legal requests. 18. I4C agency has followed up with X Corp and various meetings have
 been held with X Corp. However, the stand of X Corp. remains that they are not
 bound to come on the SAHYOG portal. 19. The I4C agency has a grievance against platform X on the ground that
 even in the past when requests have been made in respect of sexual offences
 against children, such as child sexual exploitation and abuse material (hereinafter
 "CSEAM") content, no response has been received from X Corp. This is
 contained in paragraphs 9 & 10 of the status report which read as under: 20. The submission of I4C, therefore, is that even platform X Corp. ought
 to come on board the SAHYOG portal. 21. Mr. Akhil Sibal, ld. Sr. Counsel appearing for X Corp. submits that
 platform X has also filed a writ petition before the Karnataka High Court
 challenging the SAHYOG portal. Be that as it may, the objections for
 onboarding on the SAHYOG portal on behalf of X Corp. shall be heard on the
 next date of hearing. 22. Insofar as the objections relating to the CSEAM, content is concerned,
 Mr. Akhil Sibal, ld. Sr. Counsel submits that the objectionable content was
 taken down within 24 hours as per the IT Act and, thus, X Corp. had duly W.P.(CRL) 1563/2024 Page 21 of 26 Signature Not Verified Signed By:RAHUL Signing Date:22.03.2025 15:40:26 complied with the concerned order. 23. At this stage, Mr. Arvind Datar, ld. Sr. Counsel and Mr. Kapil Sibal,
 ld. Sr. Counsel pray that the intermediaries who are cooperating and are
 onboard with the SAHYOG portal can be discharged in this matter. 24. Since the status report dated 29th January, 2025 states that except X
 Corp. almost all the major intermediaries are onboard SAHYOG portal or are
 in the process of being onboarded, these platforms are no longer required to
 appear in this matter unless specially called upon by the Court at a subsequent
 stage. It is expected that all platforms shall extend cooperation in furnishing
 of information to LEAs especially when the same relate to incidents
 concerning missing children, missing persons, incidents involving security &
 safety, serious crimes etc., 25. In the meantime, let I4C also file an updated status report by the next
 date of hearing. Handbook for LEAs by the Delhi Police 26. On 13th November, 2024 the Court had noted that in a large number of
 cases the concerned Investigating Officers may not be fully aware of the
 manner and process by which information may be requested from different
 Intermediaries. Accordingly, the Court had directed the matter to be escalated
 to the Commissioner of Police, Delhi Police for preparation of a handbook for
 the said purposes. The relevant paragraphs of the order dated 13th November,
 2024 read as under: 27. Pursuant to the said order, on 11th December, 2024 the ld. Counsel
 appearing for the Delhi Police had placed on record a status report dated 11th
 December, 2024 wherein it is stated that the Delhi Police sought information
 from various intermediaries for preparation of the handbook. The Court had
 directed the same to be answered by the intermediaries by 10th January, 2025.
 Further, it was directed that a meeting be held by the Delhi Police for enabling
 preparation of the handbook. The relevant paragraphs of the order dated 11th
 December, 2024: 13. Let the above queries of the Delhi Police be
 answered by all the intermediaries by 10th January,
 2025 and a further meeting be held with the Delhi Police
 for enabling preparation of a handbook as directed in
 the previous order dated 13th November, 2024. 14. Insofar as the status report of the Union of India is
 concerned, if any of the platforms wish to file a reply to
 the status report, they are free to do so within four
 weeks. 15. After holding the meetings, if there are any
 outstanding issues, the Union of India shall file a further
 status report." 28. Today, on behalf of the Delhi Police, the office of the Standing Counsel
 has filed a status report signed by the Joint Commissioner of Police, IFSO,
 Special Cell, Delhi as per which, the meeting was conducted pursuant to the
 previous order on 10th January, 2025. The detailed minutes of meeting dated
 10th January, 2025 has been handed across by the ld. Counsel and the same is
 taken on record. The report shows that various major intermediaries including
 Meta, WhatsApp, LinkedIn, Google, Telegram, Reddit, X Corp. were all
 present in the said meeting. 29. Mr Sanjay Lao along with Ms. Priyam Aggarwal, ld. Counsels have
 submitted the draft Standard Operating Procedures (hereinafter "draft SoP")
 for submitting requests and the final handbook that has been prepared by the
 Delhi Police. Ld. Counsel has handed over the handbook for Investigating W.P.(CRL) 1563/2024 Page 25 of 26 Signature Not Verified Signed By:RAHUL Signing Date:22.03.2025 15:40:26 Officers and the manner in which Investigating Officers should deal with
 cases where information is required to be obtained from various platforms.
 The said handbook running into 79 pages is taken on record. It is submitted
 that the said handbook has been approved by the Commissioner of Police.
 Officials from I4C submit that they have interacted with the Delhi Police in
 respect to the Handbook and given their feedback. 30. Copy of the handbook has been handed over to Mr. Jitender Singh,
 ACP for I4C. 31. Let the said handbook be uploaded by the Delhi Police on its website
 for access, benefit and guidance of LEAs and similar agencies, across the
 country. 32. In the facts of this case, the missing child has not yet been traced.
 Accordingly, let a further status report be filed by the Anti-Human Trafficking
 Unit (hereinafter "AHTU"), Crime Branch setting out the steps taken so far.
 Let the same be filed by the next date of hearing. 33. The AHTU, Crime Branch shall continue to seek assistance, as and
 when necessary, from the concerned intermediary for tracing the missing
 child at the earliest. 34. List on 29th April, 2025. 35. This shall be treated as a part heard matter. PRATHIBA M. SINGH
 JUDGE

 AMIT SHARMA
 JUDGE

 MARCH 18, 2025/dj/msh W.P.(CRL) 1563/2024 Page 26 of 26 Signature Not Verified Signed By:RAHUL Signing Date:22.03.2025 15:40:26