1. Learned A.G.A. informs that he has procured complete instructions in the matter including upto date case diary of the case and charge sheet in this case has already been submitted. 2. Heard learned counsel for the accused-applicant as well as learned A.G.A. for the State and perused the record. 3. This bail application has been moved by the accused/applicant- Satendra Kumar for grant of bail, in Case Crime No. 1098 of 2022, under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 504 and 506 of I.P.C., Police Station- Kotwali Nagar, District- Barabanki, during trial. 4. Learned counsel for the accused-applicant while pressing the bail application submits that it is a case of false implication. The allegations against the applicant are to the tune that he has executed an Agreement to Sell in favour of Sandeep Kumar impersonating himself as the real owner of the property i.e. Anil Kumar. 5. It is vehemently submitted that the applicant was taken to the Registrar's office by one Satish Sharma on the pretext that he will have to stand as a witness of the document and he was not in the knowledge that he may be shown as the seller and apart from signing on the document, he was not aware of his status in the document (agreement to sell). 6. It is also submitted that admittedly, as it is also reflected from the inquiry made by the concerned Circle Officer, a copy of which has been placed as Annexure No.2, the whole money i.e. approximately Rs. 8,00,000/- has been received from the purchaser- Sandeep Kumar by Satish Sharma through Google Pay. 7. It is further submitted that still no sale deed has been executed and there is only an agreement to sell whereby no rights may be transferred to the proposed seller and as such, there is no illegal loss to anyone, moreover, the F.I.R. has not been lodged by the Sandeep Kumar, who in fact has been de-frauded by the co-accused Satish Sharma while no loss so far as has been caused to the informant- Anil Kumar, who is the actual owner of the land. 8. It is next submitted that applicant is in jail in this case since 16.11.2023 and he is not having any criminal antecedent, charge-sheet in this case has already been submitted and there is no apprehension that after being released on bail the applicant may flee from the course of law or may otherwise misuse the liberty. 9. Learned A.G.A., on the other hand, opposes the prayer of bail of the applicant on the ground that the applicant has committed an heinous offence and having regard to the material/evidence available against the applicant, he is not entitled to be released on bail, but could not controvert the other factual submissions made by learned counsel for the applicant. 10. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and having perused the record, it is evident that the whole money is shown to have been received by co-accused Satish Sharma through Google Pay and the document is agreement to sell, by which no rights may be transferred to anyone and the sale deed has still not been executed. The F.I.R. has been lodged by the real owner of the land i.e. Anil Kumar, while the purchaser- Sandeep Kumar is shown to have been de-frauded by co-accused Satish Sharma of Rs. 8 lakhs. Charge-sheet in this case has already been filed. Applicant is in jail in this case since 16.11.2023 without any previous criminal history. The presence of the applicant could be secured before the trial court by placing adequate conditions. 11. Having regard to the overall facts and circumstances of the case and keeping in view the nature of the offence, evidence, complicity of the accused, severity of punishment, submissions of the learned counsel for the parties and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, I am of the considered view that applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is thus allowed. 12. Let the accused/applicant- Satendra Kumar involved in above-mentioned case, be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond with two sureties in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions:- 13. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. 14. Identity, status and residence proof of the applicant and sureties be verified by the Court concerned before the bonds are accepted. 15. Observations made herein-above by this court are only for the purpose of disposal of this bail application and shall not be construed as an expression of this Court on the merits of the case. Order Date :- 30.1.2024
 
Gurpreet Singh