% 21.01.2026 1. This is a petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India
 seeking quashing/ setting aside of the order dated 17.12.2025. 2. The facts are that the petitioner was a director of Isolux Corsan India
 Engineering and Construction Private Limited. The issue whether the
 petitioner was key managerial personnel (KMP) or only a managing
 director is contentious and is not being adjudicated in the present
 petition. 3. The petitioner has been declared fraud, based on the impugned order

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/01/2026 at 20:40:42
 dated 17.12.2025. 4. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner, challenges the same on the
 ground that the impugned order is cryptic and merely illusory, and that
 none of the defences raised by the petitioner have been considered by
 the Fraud Examination Committee. 5. The findings against the petitioner in the impugned order are as under: 6. Based on the two findings, the petitioner has been declared fraud. 7. Mr. Rout, learned standing counsel for respondent No. 2, states that the
 petitioner was duly given personal hearing and the representations
 were considered and thereafter, a speaking and well-reasoned order has
 been passed. 8. In the present case, 2 replies have been given by the petitioner. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/01/2026 at 20:40:42 9. One, dated 29.11.2024 (prior to the receiving of Forensic Audit Report)
 and second dated 06.10.2025, (after receiving the Forensic Audit
 Report). 10. The representation of the petitioner on 06.10.2025 is relevant and the
 entire representation is reproduced hereunder: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/01/2026 at 20:40:42
 nothing adverse could be determined against me. Moreover,
 most of the observations of the Auditor in FAR were subject
 to caveats and assumptions. It is a settled law that for
 initiation of proceedings under the 2024 Master Directions, a
 bank is required to have a separate and independent (from
 FAR) view. Further, the 2024 Master Directions in Clause
 6.1 lists the events or acts that amounts to fraud, however, as
 mentioned above, the allegations stated in the SCN do not
 fall within any such act or event and do not amount to fraud
 under the 2024 Master Directions. Further, You have not
 identified what type of fraud, or the offence appears to have
 been committed by me. 9. It is reminded that the burden of proof to show that there is
 any basis or valid reason to initiate proceedings against me
 or declare my account as fraud, under the 2024 Master
 Directions lies with You. Further, in terms of Footnote 7 of
 Clause 2.1.1.1. of the 2024 Master Directions, even the
 degree of proof is higher in case of Non-Whole Time Director
 (like me) in the Company. 10. You may appreciate that while being promoted as
 Director on 23.07.2015, I was appointed as Director
 (Professional) (one of the many directors) and the same was
 just hierarchical promotion and I continued to serve as a
 Director (Professional-Legal) of the Company till my
 resignation on 15.06.2017. Moreso, during any Audit, I was
 never even interviewed or interacted with, (as recorded by

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/01/2026 at 20:40:42
 the Auditor @ Para 1.1 @ Pg. 10 of the FAR) which clearly
 establishes that I was not a relevant or key personnel or
 employee related to any financial or other transactions. 11. I was only 1 among over 1200+ employees of the
 Company. I was never responsible for the finances/loans of
 the Company. I never signed any loan agreement of the
 Company and was never authorised through a power of
 attorney to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any
 financial matters or transactions. I was never a signatory for
 any financial transactions or documents. Furthermore, I was
 never a shareholder or promoter of the Company. I always
 worked under the supervision of the Managing Director of
 the Company who was a Spanish/Expat person(s) and the
 Company was always controlled by its Spanish management
 within India or outside India. 12. As evident from my response above, the documents
 provided by You, till date, does not disclose any act(s) of
 fraud by me. On the perusal of the documents provided to me
 till now, it is clear that I am not involved in any transactional
 activity on behalf of the Company, neither was I instrumental
 or a signatory to the transactions which have been audited as
 per these documents. These documents do not even have a
 whisper of an allegation against me and are devoid of any
 finding which may affix my liability in the alleged fraudulent
 transactions. Even if after considering my present
 submissions, You still decide to continue the present

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/01/2026 at 20:40:42
 proceedings against me or declare my account as fraud
 under the 2024 Master Directions, I again request You to
 provide the relevant documents (other than the documents
 already provided as the same do not reveal anything against
 me) basis which such proceedings are being initiated/
 continued against me and/or my account is being declared as
 "Fraud". Additionally, You are also requested to clearly
 communicate/ inform as to how You have drawn adverse
 inferences against me from such documents. 13. The conduct of the Bank is in complete abuse of process
 and the power provided by the Reserve Bank of India to You.
 It is a clear attempt to harass and cause a civil death to an
 innocent employee director. The Bank has been proceeding
 in complete violation of the 2024 Master Directions and the
 Principles of Natural Justice, (a) The SCN was issued to be
 after having resigned from the company for more than 7
 years, (b) The SCN that was issued to me did not contain any
 relevant documents enclosed along with it neither did it set
 out any specific allegation against me; (c) According to
 Clause 4.1.5 of the 2024 Master Directions, the entire
 process of classification of the account as fraud shall be
 completed within 180 days. However, the said period had
 lapsed and the FAR and certain loan documents have been
 provided by you after almost a year since the issuance of
 SCN, (d) The documents provided by You till date, are
 inadequate to ascertain my liability in the alleged acts of

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/01/2026 at 20:40:42
 fraud as stated in the SCN, and (e) Inclusion of the
 observations from the report which does not and cannot
 amount to fraud shows that the You are conducting
 mechanical exercise without application of mind despite the
 severe consequences that I may face as a result of this
 negligence of bank. 14. The proceedings being initiated by Bank against me
 clearly show discrimination/ lack of application of mind, as
 the ultimate promoters of the Group Isolux as well as the last
 2 Directors appointed by the shareholders of the Company
 and many other Whole Time Directors, Managing Directors
 and EPC Directors who worked in the Company during the
 period from 2013-2018 have not been issued the SCN clearly
 discriminating me from the powerful shareholders,
 promoters and Managing Director vis-à-vis a pure employee
 director having no interest in the Company or have any
 direct or indirect benefit in any manner. 15. The conduct of the Bank is in complete abuse of process
 and the power provided by the Reserve Bank of India to You.
 It is a clear attempt to harass and cause a civil death to an
 innocent employee director. It is needless to emphasis that in
 the event you continue to proceed against me without
 sufficient proof / evidences, I will be left with no option but
 proceed against the Bank and all the associated officials
 involved in this process. Further, Your failure to set out
 specific allegations against me is in violation of the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/01/2026 at 20:40:42
 Principles of Natural Justice in as much as severe prejudice
 is caused to me by such broad and vague allegations of
 instances of fraud. Inclusion of the observations from the
 report which does not and cannot tantamount to fraud, shows
 that the Bank is conducting mechanical exercise without
 application of mind despite the severe consequences that I
 may face as a result of this negligence of Bank. 16. Further, if You are dissatisfied with the present response
 and require any further clarifications, please let me know.
 The present representation is being issued without prejudice
 to my rights under extant statutory and regulatory
 framework." 11. A perusal of the impugned order reproduced above clearly shows that
 even though the respondent recognised that a representation dated
 06.10.2025 has been received; the same has not been considered or
 adverted to. 12. None of the grounds mentioned in the representation dated 06.10.2025,
 namely that the petitioner was only a non-executive/professional
 director with no control over finances, no signing authority, and no role
 in the transactions under scrutiny have been considered, in the
 impugned order. 13. Additionally, the order declaring the petitioner as a wilful defaulter has
 been stayed by this Court in W.P. (C) 5850/2025 on 05.05.2025, the
 order which is still continuing. 14. Despite the same, the declaration of wilful defaulter of the petitioner
 has also been made one of the grounds for classifying the petitioner as a

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/01/2026 at 20:40:42
 "fraud". The same has serious consequences and cannot be a
 trigger-happy exercise. 15. The principles of natural justice requires that each and every
 representation of the petitioner made prior to the date of passing the
 impugned order should have been considered, due application of mind
 should have been accorded and thereafter, reasoned and detailed order
 should have been passed. 16. For the said reasons, the order cannot be sustained and is set aside as
 being violative of principles of natural justice. 17. However, the above observations do not prevent the respondents from
 taking any actions which is in accordance with law. JASMEET SINGH, J
 JANUARY 21, 2026/sp

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 23/01/2026 at 20:40:42