This is second bail application filed under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal

 Procedure, 1973 on behalf of the applicant, who is in custody since 06.09.2021 in
 connection with Crime No.99/2021 registered at Police Station Cyber Cell, District
 Bhopal (M.P.) for the offence under Sections 120-B , 420 of IPC and 66 (C) & 66 (D)
 of Information Technology Act . H i s first bail application (M.Cr.C. No.49381/2021) vide order dated
 04.01.2022 was dismissed as withdrawn. Now, learned counsel for the applicant submits that co-accused Tuntun, who is
 known to them has been arrested, main accused Rajesh is still absconding but applicant
 is innocent. He has been falsely implicated. Applicant had only received a sum of
 Rs.10,000/- in his Paytm account. It is submitted that it was a friendly transaction
 which was entered into on request of his acquaintance Tuntun and he has no criminal
Signature Not
 SAN
Verified past. MOHD TABISH Shri Amit Mishra, learned Panel Lawyer for the State submits that this is a tip of KHAN Date: 2022.04.23 18:33:42 IST 2 the ice berg, there is huge gang operating internationally to defraud innocent persons.
They are deeply involved in cyber crime, all the links have yet not been traced, main
accused Rajesh is still absconding. Chain is yet not complete. Applicant if is enlarged
on bail, then he will try to influence the witnesses and hamper the progress of trial. I t is submitted that accused Suraj is pursuing his I.T.I. in the trade of Diesel
Mechanic. Rajesh Mahto is a person of his village and a close friend of his. Kartik
Kumar Mahto is also his friend and resident of the same village. It is submitted that
applicant has himself admitted that he is a part of money transaction racket. Two years prior to the date of memorandum Rajesh received information that
Harish was committing fraud and was getting money in his account since then Rajesh
started indulging in such financial frauds. Rajesh was using account/wallet of any of
the three persons. Modus operandi is mentioned, that firstly amount defrauded use to be
transferred to the account/wallet and thereafter cash amount was withdrawn from the
said account holder/wallet holder after giving him commission in cash. Remaining
money use to be distributed between Suraj, Rajesh and Harish and there is a admission
of commission of fraud with several people in this fashion. It is also mentioned that on 26.06.2021 a sum of Rs.10,000/- was deposited in
the Paytm Wallet Account No.7061193219 of Kartik and he was informed on phone.
Thereafter Kartik had transferred that amount in the account of Pankaj and Kartik had
received his commission. It is submitted that applicant is not so innocent as is trying to make out. He is
conscious of the fact that he was part of a Racket. He allowed his account/wallet to be
used for the purpose of illegal money transactions on the consideration of getting
commission for facilitating such transaction. In view of such facts it is submitted that unless chain is complete, custodial
interrogation will be required, and if applicant is given benefit of bail then he may not
be available for further investigation as and when the main accused Rajesh is arrested.
It is submitted that his custody till arrest of main accused Rajesh is necessary and,
therefore, prays for dismissal of the application. After hearing learned counsel for the parties and going through the record and 3 also taking into consideration a fact that applicant is part of a money fraud racket being
operated by a team of persons including Suraj Kumar, Rajesh etc and he was
facilitating transactions after accepting commission, this is not a fit case to extend
benefit of bail to the applicant for the present. Accordingly, application fails and is dismissed. (VIVEK AGARWAL)
 JUDGE
Tabish