Hon'ble S.C. Agarwal,J. ( Delivered by Hon'ble Amar Saran, J )
All the aforesaid connected writ petitions have been sent to this Bench headed
by one of us (Amar Saran, J.) by order of Hon'ble the Chief Justice dated
5.7.2010. We have heard Sri Umesh Narain Sharma, Sri V.P. Srivastava, and Sri G.S.
Chaturvedi, Senior Advocates for the petitioners in some of the petitions, the
learned counsel for the other petitioners Punita Mishra, Dinesh Kr. Yadav,
Shivanand Tiwari, , Amar Deep Singh and others, Lalit Kumar Pandey, Lallan
Prasad have also raised some submissions. Other counsel have adopted their
contentions. We have also heard Sri A.K. Sand, and Sri Vikas Sahai, learned
Additional Government Advocates for the State and have perused the records
 of the writ petitions, and have also summoned and seen the records in Civil
 Misc. Writ Petition No. 23250 of 2010, Special Appeal ( Defective ) No. 610
 of 2010 and in Civil Misc. Contempt Petition No. 1724 of 2004.
 The petitions are an offshoot of orders passed by Hon'ble Arun Tandon, J on
 13.5.2010 in Civil Misc. Writ petition No. 23250 of 2010, wherein the learned
 single Judge observed as follows: In an earlier order dated 5.5.2010 in writ petition No. 23250 of 2010 Hon'ble Arun Tandon, J.
observed as follows: "Two aspects of the matter are involved, (a) how the 12 crores of rupees,
which have been deposited by the teachers and employees in the hope that on retirement they
will get the money encashed from the said General Provident Fund and survive during old age,
is to be recouped, inasmuch as ultimately such teachers and staffs would suffer if the money is
not restored, and (b) no fraudulent withdrawal from the Government Treasury through the
office of the District Inspector of Schools, Ballia is prima facie possible from the General
Provident Fund unless officers and employees working in the aforesaid two offices collude
with the private management and the person concerned." Pursuant to the aforesaid orders of this Court, the District Inspector of
 Schools, Ballia lodged an FIR on 23.5.2010 at case crime No. 271 of 2010,
 under sections 409 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 419 , 420 IPC, police station Kotwali,
 district Ballia. The said FIR which nominates the then District Inspector of
 Schools (DIOS), Sri Brijnath Pandey, Accounts Officer, Sri Kamla Kant and
 Accounts Clerk, (the petitioner Lallan Prasad, in Cr. Writ Petition No. 9674 of
 2010), and the teaching and non-teaching employees in some aided secondary
 institutions in Ballia numbering 47, and which also implicates the then
 managers and principals of the said institutions, has been challenged by the
 petitioners in the bunch of petitions before us. The FIR mentioned that it was being registered pursuant to the order of the
High Court in Writ-A No. 23250 of 2010. It was mentioned in the FIR that
during the period October 2005 and April 2006 the Principals and Managers
of the non-government aided secondary and higher secondary colleges at
Ballia entered into a criminal conspiracy with certain teachers and non-
teaching staff of their institutions and the then District Inspector of Schools,
Accounts Officer and the Accounts Clerk with the objective of embezzling
public money. Forged documents were manufactured with the aim of illegally
paying salaries to teaching and non-teaching employees whose appointments
were unauthorised after showing false dates of appointments. Arrears were
paid without authorization from the competent authority, and funds meant for
the GPF accounts were diverted for distribution as arrears of salary. The
details of the concerned teaching and non-teaching employees, and the illegal
payments received by each, and the role of the aforementioned DIOS,
accounts officer and clerk, and the Principals and Managers and some
illustrations of the modus operandi adopted at the concerned institutions in
Ballia are given in an audit report which was conducted by an Audit team of
the Education Directorate Allahabad, pursuant to earlier complaints, and is
annexed to the FIR. The FIR and the audit report further show that in some
instances the college records were dishonestly removed to hamper audit, in
other cases the teaching and non-teaching employees got payments made in
furtherance of their conspiracy with the aforesaid educational authorities
without even producing the relevant papers from the College. In a case the
GPF amount standing to the credit of a regular teacher was unauthorizedly
withdrawn by collusively affixing the photograph of another person which
was verified by the principal of the institution (Langtu Baba Inter College,
Harihankala), and the withdrawal was approved by the principal and the
manager (the then DIOS Brajnath, who was acting as the manager) after
forged ledgers were got prepared, which bore the signatures of the college
principal and the then accounts officer and the accounts clerk (petitioner
Lallan Prasad, in Cr. Misc. Writ Petition No. 9674 of 2010) at the DIOS
office. It was submitted by Sri V.P. Srivastava and some other learned counsel for
the petitioners that the teaching and non teaching employees had been validly
appointed and that there were orders of the High Court in different writ
 petitions validating their appointments or directing either payment of salary or
to consider their representations within a stipulated period of time. Some of
these orders have even been annexed. Furthermore in Civil Misc. Contempt Petition No. 1724 of 2004 an order
dated 12.7.05 was passed directing payment of salaries to the petitioners in
whose cases final orders had been issued in the writ petitions filed by them.
This Contempt was filed to ensure compliance of an order dated 25.2.04
passed in C.M.W.P. No. 25885 of 2003. Hence the petitioners could not be
faulted for receiving the salaries. It may be noted that the said contempt petition was eventually dismissed by
an order dated 12.12.05. Significantly in Civil Misc. Writ Petition No. 25885 of 2003, which was the
basis for the direction in the Civil Contempt, the single judge was looking at
the illegal and fraudulent appointments in the educational institutions at Ballia
where the matters had been handed over to the CBCID for investigation. The
CBCID had even recommended lodging of criminal cases and the salary of
329 employees had been with-held. The Director of Education (Secondary)
had found that 104 employees had approached the High Court and obtained
orders in writ petitions directing payments of salaries pending completion of
enquiry. It was also noticed in the said order dated 25.2.04 that the enquiry
had resulted in favourable reports for 75 employees. But significantly the
single Judge observed: The issues and criteria that are to be considered in individual cases for
ad hoc appointments against substantive or short term vacancies, such
as the requirement to first fill up the available vacancies by
promotions, and only in the absence of eligible persons, by direct
recruitment, the need for intimation of vacancies to the Education
Services Commission through the DIOS, the time period allowed to
the Commission to appoint suitable candidates, before the
management could take steps for filling up vacancies, the need for
inviting applications for the vacancies through the employment
exchange and by publication in two local newspapers which have a
wide circulation in the State, the essential qualifications required for
different posts, the cases where prior or subsequent approvals by the
DIOS are needed, the position when a regular person is selected by the
Education Services Commission in the cases where an ad hoc
employee has been appointed, have been spelt out in depth by the Full
Bench of this Court in Kumari Radha Raizada and others v.
Committee of Management, Vidyawati Darbari Girls Inter College and
others,1994 (3) UPLBEC 1551, after considering the statutory
provisions contained in the U.P. Secondary Education Services
Commission and Selection Board Act, 1981 , the U.P. Intermediate
Education Act, 1921 , and the various U.P. Education Services
Commission (Removal of Difficulties) Orders. In another Full Bench decision in Gopal Dubey v. District Inspector of
Schools, Maharajganj and another , 1992(2) AWC 962, interpreting the
provisions of section 9 of the U.P. High Schools and Intermediate
Education Colleges (Payment of Salaries of Teachers and other
Employees) Act 1971 it has been held that unless the post for which
the salary has been paid is approved by the State government (Director
 of Education), the payments made by the management of the
institution to such employees will not be re-reimbursed by the State.
The individual appointments and payments made therefore needed to
be tested on the aforesaid criteria spelt out in the Full Bench decisions.
If it was found that the appointments did not meet the said criteria, as
they had simply been made or continued pursuant to orders of in the
High Court in pending or disposed of writ petitions, which gave
directions to consider the representations of the petitioners, or to pay
salaries or to show cause etc., and where regular persons had been
appointed by the Commission, then the ad hoc appointments made by
the managements needed to be set aside. Steps for seeking vacation of
single or division bench High Court orders in Civil Writs and
Contempt petitions which were in the teeth of the decision of the Full
Bench in Radha Raizada and statutory provisions, by filing Special
Appeals before the Division bench or the Supreme Court were
required. But it appears that these steps have deliberately not been
taken in a mala fide manner, and the petitioners and others may have
colluded with educational authorities for obtaining favourable orders. It must be stated emphatically that in any
 view of the matter, there could be
 absolutely be no justification for
 payment of salaries for such teachers
 from the General Provident Fund, from
 which as the Chief Standing Counsel
 admitted before the Single Judge in Bhim
 Singh's case, there had been illegal
 withdrawals to the tune of Rs. 12 crores. The said G.P.F. money is held in trust,
 and the proper holders of the GPF will be
 severely harmed if they are unable to
 receive due payments at retirement or
 otherwise. The DIOS in the contempt
 petition could have pleaded inability to
 comply with the order of the contempt
 Judge, until budgetary allocation of
 salaries were made by the State
 government, or the management itself
 could have made the necessary payments
 from its own sources, if it was so
 advised. Withdrawal of salaries from
 funds earmarked for GPF of bona fide
 employees could never be countenanced. It was next submitted that the petitioners were merely teaching
and non teaching employees, managers and Principals of the
institutions concerned and were wholly unaware of the source
of the funds or that the disputed funds were earmarked for
G.P.F. Also the payments had been released by the DIOS,
Accounts officer and other educational authorities to save their
own skins in the contempt petition. The payments were not
made at the instance of the petitioners. Pressure was brought to
bear on the petitioners by the DIOS by orders dated
28/29.3.2006 and 18/20.4.2006 to submit the salary bills. In our view considering the scale at
 which the withdrawals have been made
 from the GPF money, it is difficult to
 believe that the petitioners were only
 unwary and innocent recipients of the
 money, and their hands were absolutely
 clean. There was no need for the DIOS
 and other educational authorities to have
 gone out of their way for facilitating the
 dubious appointments of the petitioners,
 unless they were swayed by extraneous
 considerations. The single judge appears
 to have rightly observed in his order
 dated 5.5.10 that "no fraudulent
 withdrawal from the Government
 Treasury through the office of the
 District Inspector of Schools, Ballia is
 prima facie possible from the General
 Provident Fund unless officers and
 employees working in the aforesaid two
 offices collude with the private
 management and the person concerned." Specifically it was argued by Sri. U.N. Sharma, learned Senior counsel
 appearing for Vinayendra Upadhyay, that the FIR was unauthorised as
 it has been instituted on the direction of the Single Judge in Civil
 Misc. Writ petition No. 23250 of 2010, whilst hearing a service matter
 and the said bench had no jurisdiction to issue a general direction for
 lodging FIRs against known and unknown persons, particularly as the
 petitioner in the said writ petition Bhim Singh had mainly sought a
 relief of getting the GPF refunded from one Ashok Kumar Singh, who
 was arrayed as respondent no.10 in the said writ petition. Such a
 direction, if at all, could have been issued only by a bench hearing
 Public Interest Litigations (PILs). Also no opportunity was given to
 the petitioners to raise objections before the Single Judge bench which
 had issued the general direction for lodging the FIRs and the said order
 was in violation of the principles of natural justice, as they were not
 parties in Civil Misc. Writ petition No. 23250 of 2010. For these
 reasons the Division Bench in Special Appeal ( Defective ) No. 610 of
 2010, by an order dated 30.6.2010 finally disposing of the Special
 Appeal had stayed the operation of the order of the single judge in
 Civil Misc. Writ Petition No. 23250 of 2010 directing registration of
 the FIR so far as it related to the case of the petitioner Vinayendra
 Nath Upadhyaya. It may be noted that the prayers in the single judge writ petition No. 23250 of
2010, apart from the first prayer for a mandamus directing the concerned
authorities to recover the amount of G.P.F. which had been misappropriated
by respondent No. 10 (Ashok Kumar Singh) were to: Thus the general direction for lodging the FIRs was issued in terms of the
audit report dated 4.12.06 which produced evidence of the diversion of funds
meant for GPF for payment of salaries of employees, whose appointments
were illegal and unauthorized, and false dates of appointment were mentioned
based on forged documents. There were instances of dishonest removal of
service papers to hamper audit etc.
The single judge further rightly justifies his order dated 13.5.2010 directing
registration of FIRs for embezzlement of public money by observing that Sri
M.C. Chaturvedi, Chief Standing Counsel "submits that the embezzlement of
the money from the GPF account is not in dispute, however the quantification
is to be done." In Nirmal Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab , AIR 2009 SC 984 the Supreme
Court saw no difficulty in a private interest litigation being changed to a
public interest litigation, or in issuing directions of a general nature where
large scale systematic irregularities or fraud was noticed by the High Court. In
this regard it was observed in paragraph 32 : "The High Court while
entertaining the writ petition formed a prima facie opinion as regards the
systematic commission of fraud. While dismissing the writ petition filed by
the selected candidates, it initiated a suo motu public interest litigation. It was
entitled to do so. The nature of jurisdiction exercised by the High Court, as is
well known, in a private interest litigation and in a public interest litigation is
different. Whereas in the latter it is inquisitorial in nature, in the former it is
adversarial. In a public interest litigation, the court need not strictly follow the
ordinary procedure. It may not only appoint committees but also issue
directions upon the State from time to time. {See Indian Bank vs. Godhara
Nagrik Co-op. Credit Society Ltd. and Anr. [2008 ( 7) SCALE 363] and Raju
Ramsing Vasave v. Mahesh Deorao Bhavpurkar and others , [2008 (12)
SCALE 252]. Further in Dwarka Nath v. Income Tax Officer, Special Circle, D.
 Ward , Kanpur, AIR 1966 SC 81 and Padma v. Hiralal Motilal
 Desarda, AIR 2002 SC 3252 it has been held that in view of the
 comprehensive phraseology in Article 226 , which gives powers to the
 High Court not only to issue specified writs, but to issue orders and
 directions for "any other purpose", an ex facie power is conferred on
 the High Court to reach injustice wherever it is found, and to mould its
 relief for meeting the complicated requirements of a case. Also it has been laid down in A.R. Antulay v. Ram Das Sriniwas Nayak , AIR
1984 SC 718 in paragraph 6 that the concept of locus standi is foreign to
Indian jurisprudence, and if a cognizable offence has been committed, anyone
can put the criminal law in motion, unless the statute restricts the right to file
the FIR to a particular category of persons. The relevant passage reads thus: A Court in any jurisdiction is no less a citizen than a
 private person. If the Court in the course of hearing a
 case finds that a cognizable offence is committed by
 some persons, it can never be barred from bringing
 these facts to the notice of the investigating agency,
 who in turn in view of section 154 of the Code is bound
 to investigate the said offence, not because the order has
 emanated from the Court, but because a cognizable
 offence is disclosed. In M. Narayandas v. State of Karnataka ,(2003) 11 SCC 251 it has been
 held that in view of section 154 (1) of the Code, a duty has been cast
 on the investigating officer to reduce any "information" about the
 commission of a cognizable case in writing. The expression 'credible
 information' or reasonable complaint has deliberately not been used in
 the provision by the legislature. Therefore the investigating officer has
 no option but to lodge the FIR and to proceed with investigation if any
 information about the commission of a cognizable offence is received.
 Paragraph 33 of M. Narayandas may be usefully extracted here- "It is,
 therefore, manifestly clear that if any information disclosing a
 cognizable offence is laid before an officer in charge of a police
 station satisfying the requirements of Section 154(1) of the Code, the
 said police officer has no other option except to enter the substance
 thereof in the prescribed form, that is to say, to register a case on the
 basis of such information." So far as the other criticism against the single judge's
 order for having violated principles of natural justice
 was concerned, it may be noted that as on examining
 the petition filed by Bhim Singh and obtaining
 responses from the Standing Counsel, the Single Judge
 reached a conclusion about large scale irregularities in
 appointments and illegal diversion of GPF money, he
 could only order a general investigation and lodging of
 FIRs against persons who may be involved in the crime.
 As the single judge had no knowledge as to all the
 persons who could be involved in the fraud, there was
 no question of issuing notices to the potential accused at
 that stage. By the order dated 13.5.10 the single judge had simply directed that a "First
Information has to be lodged aginst the persons guilty and they must be
brought to book." Thereafter if the investigating agency was prima facie
satisfied of the complicity of any person in an offence, there was no
requirement in law of providing an opportunity of hearing to the accused
before registration of the FIR. At the stage of investigation the accused has no locus standi or right of prior
hearing before the FIR is lodged. In Union of India v. W.N. Chadha , AIR
1993 SC 1082, it has been clarified that an accused has no right to challenge
the letter rogatory issued by an Indian Court to a foreign Court for obtaining
evidence regarding the source of funds kept in the Swiss Bank. As no
 deprivation of liberty or property was involved, hence the principle of audi
alteram partem, was not attracted. The subsequent stage of investigation by the police is governed by the Code
of Criminal Procedure (hereafter called the Code). Chapter 12 of the Code
confers no right of prior hearing to the accused at the stage of investigation,
but the right of hearing is only provided when the Sessions Judge or
Magistrate considers whether to discharge or to frame a charge against the
accused under sections 227/228 or 239/240 of the Code. Under section 235(2)
in the case of a Sessions triable case, or section 248(2) in a warrant case
triable by a Magistrate again the accused have a right of being heard.
That the accused has no right of hearing at the stage of investigation and does
not come into the picture till the order taking cognizance has been passed has
also been emphasized in Chandra Deo Singh v. Prakash Chandra Bose , AIR
1963 SC 1430 Shashi Jena & Ors. v. Khodal Swain & Anr. , (2004) 4 SCC
236 and a catena of other decisions. Significantly it has been observed in paragraph 98 in Union of India v. W.N.
Chadha : It also appears to us that the order in Special Appeal
 (Defective) No. 610 of 2010, dated 30.6.2010 staying the
 operation of the order of the single judge in Civil Misc. Writ
 Petition No. 23250 of 2010 directing registration of the FIR so
 far as it related to the case of the petitioner Vinayendra Nath
 Upadhyaya was passed as the division bench was under the
 impression that no action had yet been taken on the direction of
 the single judge for registration of the FIR. Thus it was
 observed in the order in the Special Appeal (Defective), that : It may be noted that in the decision of Upkar Singh itself, it is
mentioned in paragraphs 21 and 22 as corrected, vide Official
Corrigendum No. F.3/Ed. B.J./86/2004 that: Recently in Nirmal Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab ,
 AIR 2009 SC 984 , the case law on the point has been
 reviewed, and the Apex Court, has re-affirmed the
 above noted view in Upkar Singh, and opined that if the
 new conspiracy is different or covers a larger canvas,
 and even some new accused are added (although some
 accused may be common in the two FIRs), there is no
 fetter on lodging the second FIR. In the instant case we find that the earlier FIR dated 25.4.02 nominated
10 named government employees, 7 of whom were clerks, an accounts
officer, and two accountants. The said 10 accused persons are
completely different from the three government officials, i.e. the
DIOS, Accounts officer and accounts clerk named in the present case.
There are no allegations in the earlier case of diversion of General
Provident Fund Money, but the allegations were of getting fake
appointments and payments made to 131 persons who were ineligible
for employment. There was thus no difficulty in the second FIR being
registered. Contrary to the aforesaid submission of duplication of FIRs, Sri G.S.
 Chaturvedi has argued that the FIR should be quashed because for
multiple causes of action, and multiple conspiracies of unrelated
teachers from different educational institutions with educational
authorities in Ballia a single FIR at crime No. 271 of 2010 had been
lodged in the present case, and that there should have been multiple
FIRs. He placed reliance on a decision of this Court in Rashid Aziz v.
State of U.P. , 1997 (34) ACC 726. The FIR in the said case appears to
have been quashed with liberty to file separate FIRs principally
because the FIR by the District Magistrate in Rashid Aziz was
unwarranted as the DM himself was the sanctioning authority in that
case under section 39 of the Arms Act. Moreover, looking to the complex nature of allegations, and the case
being in the nature of a scam, of diversion of GPF money to
wrongfully appointees, where the modus operandi of the criminal
activity alleged may have been similar, the investigation by a single
agency was desirable. Indeed scams of such magnitude are usually
investigated together by pivotal agencies like the CBI or the CBCID.
Questions relating to misjoinder of charges under section 223 of the
Code can be agitated at the stage of framing of charges, and not at the
initial stage of investigation. There is also nothing to prevent the
investigating officer from filing separate charge sheets in exercise of
his powers under section 173 (2) of the Code, if he is so advised. It is
open for the supervisory agencies in the police establishment to look
into this issue, and give appropriate guidance to the investigating
officer. In Satvinder Kaur v. State (Government of NCT, Delhi ), AIR
 1999 SC 3596, where the goods in the marriage had been
 entrusted in Patiala, but the FIR was lodged in Delhi, the lack
 of territorial jurisdiction with the investigating officer, was
 held not to be a ground for refusing to lodge the FIR or to
 investigate the case. In Union of India. v. Prakash P. Hinduja,
 AIR 2003 SC 2612, relying on H.N. Rishbud v. State of Delhi ,
 (AIR 1955 SC 196) it has been held that any illegality in an
 investigation does not vitiate the trial, unless it has caused a
 miscarriage of justice. In the latter case, the investigation into a
 case under the Prevention of Corruption Act was conducted by
 an officer below the rank of Dy. Superintendent of Police. This
 was in violation of section 5-A of the Prevention of Corruption
 Act. It was observed that even an invalid investigation does not
 vitiate an order of cognizance, unless miscarriage of justice has
 resulted. It was further submitted by Sri G.S. Chaturvedi, that offences
 under the provisions alleged i.e 409, 467, 468, 419 and 420 IPC are not made out. We refrain from giving elaborate
 comment on this point as it may prejudice, the investigation or
 trial. Suffice it is to state that the money meant for GPF was
 money which was to be held in trust for the bona fide
 employees and was to be utilized in a particular manner in
 accordance to the directions in law. There would be a criminal
 breach of trust, if the said money was diverted for payment of
 salaries of some employees. As per the FIR there are
 allegations of preparation of forged documents by mentioning
 false dates of appointments and for withdrawing the GPF etc.
 which have been made for causing wrongful losses to the
 public exchequer or to bona fide employees. Thus prima facie
 it cannot be said that offences under the aforesaid sections are
 not disclosed. In Rajesh Bajaj v. State NCT of Delhi , (1999) 3 SCC 259 it has been
observed that there cannot be a hypertechnical approach at the stage of
investigation, and whether an offence under a particular section is
disclosed cannot be sieved through a cullender of the finest gauzes at
this stage. Thus in paragraph 12 at page 263 the aforesaid law report
notes: "The High Court seems to have adopted a strictly
hypertechnical approach and sieved the complaint through a cullendar
of finest gauzes for testing the ingredients under Section 415 IPC.
Such an endeavour may be justified during trial, but certainly not
during the stage of investigation." It was also submitted by Sri G.S. Chaturvedi, that the payments
 were made and salaries paid from the GPF accounts only for
 compliance of the Court's orders and the said actions were
 protected under section 78 of the Penal Code. As we have already clarified above, salaries cannot be paid arbitrarily
from any source or account, and withdrawal of money from the GPF
account, which is money held in trust for the regular bona fide
employees would amount to criminal breach of trust. Moreover,
Section 78 of the Penal Code only takes away the criminality of an act
done in good faith in pursuance of or which is warranted by the
judgment or order of a court. The act of giving appointments to
employees who may not be entitled to employment under the statutory
provisions, only on the strength of some interim or final orders of the
Court, and then making payments to them from the GPF money of
bona fide employees, which is a criminal act, as it is against the law or
directions as to how a trust has to be executed, can never be described
as an act in good faith justified by Court orders. It was next submitted by Sri V.P. Srivastava, that there was no
embezzlement, but only a temporary withdrawal of GPF sums for
ensuring compliance of the High Court's orders. Even a temporary unlawful diversion of money perhaps with the intent
to restore it in future, is a dishonest act which would amount to an
offence. In Ram Narain Poply v. CBI , 2003 Cri.L.J 4801 it has been
observed that "When a person misappropriates to his own use the
property that does not belong to him, the misappropriation is dishonest
even though there was an intention to restore it at some future point of
time." One last submission was raised by learned counsel that in several writ
petitions arising out of the present crime number the arrest of the
petitioners have been stayed by different orders of this Court.
We notice that in some cases the writ petitions have been dismissed
straight away. There are other cases on which the petitioners' counsel
rely, where the writ petitions have been dismissed or disposed of, with
an interim relief, that till submission of charge sheets their arrests
should be stayed, without even saying anything on the merits of the
matter. The said orders are in the teeth of the decision of the Full
Bench of this Court, in Ajeet Singh v State of U.P. , (2007 Cri.L.J.170)
(FB), which has disapproved of orders orders staying arrests by non-
 reasoned orders whilst dismissing or disposing of the petition. Relying
on the decisions in State of Orissa v. Madan Gopal Rungta , AIR 1952
SC 12, Amarsarjit Singh v. State of Punjab, AIR 1962 SC 1305, State
of Orissa v. Ram Chandra Dev, AIR 1964 SC 685, State of Bihar v.
Rambalak Singh "Balak", AIR 1966 SC 1441, Premier Automobiles
Ltd. v. Kamlakar Shantaram Wadke , AIR 1975 SC 2238 it is observed
in paragraph 83 by the Full Bench: "the writ Court has no competence
to issue any direction protecting the right of the petitioner interregnum,
for the reason that writ does not lie for granting only an interim relief
and interim relief can be granted provided the case is pending before
the Court and rights of the parties are likely to be adjudicated upon on
merit" Sambhajirao Chandrojirao Angre, AIR 1988 SC 709; The Janata Dal
v. H. S. Chowdhary , AIR 1993 SC 892; Mrs. Rupan Deol Bajaj v.
Kanwar Pal Singh Gill , AIR 1996 SC 309; G. Sagar Suri v. State of
U.P. , AIR 2000 SC 754 : (2000 All LJ 496); and Ajay Mitra v. State of
M.P. , AIR 2003 SC 1069)." We may mention here that after extensive hearing to the parties, and
reserving the case for orders on 19.7.2010, an affidavit dated 20.7.10
was filed in Cr.Misc. Writ Petition No. 9873 of 2010, Vinayendra
 Nath Upadhyay v State of U.P. and others annexing therein an order of
the Apex Court dated 19.7.10 in Special Leave to Appeal (Crl) No(s)
5429/2010, Om Prakash Chaubey v. State of U.P. & Ors. The said
order read as follows: In deference to the aforesaid interim order of the Supreme Court
issuing notice on the aforesaid appeal and staying the arrest of the
appellant therein, we had granted an interim stay of arrest of the
petitioners till 4.8.2010 by our orders dated 22.7.2010 and 28.7.2010.
But subsequently we have been informed by the High Court's
Computer section, that after a lengthy hearing by the Supreme Court
on 19.7.2010 in the case of Dr. Lalendra Pratap Singh, SLP (Criminal)
5412 of 2010, the Principal of Sukhpura Inter College, who was a co-
accused along with the petitioners in the same Crime number and
whose Criminal Writ petition was earlier dismissed by the High Court,
which had been challenged in the Supreme Court. When the Apex
Court was about to dismiss the petition, the petitioner's counsel made
an oral prayer for withdrawing his petition, whereupon the bench
consisting of Hon'ble Mr. Justice Harjit Singh Bedi and Hon'ble Mr.
Justice C.K. Prasad, dismissed the petition as withdrawn by the
following order :