This writ petition is filed to issue a Writ of Certiorari, order or

direction, calling for the records in C.C. No. 3449 of 2018 pending on the

file of Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore, Chennai and to

quash the charge sheet in RC No.4 of 2016 including the order dated

8-5-2018 passed by the ACMM, Egmore, Chennai in CC No. 3449 of

2018. 2. Heard Sri S. Nagamuthu, learned Senior Counsel representing

Ms. Anaveni Mogili, counsel on record for the petitioner and the Sri Surya

Karan Reddy, learned Additional Solicitor General of India for respondent

No. 1, CBI and the learned counsel for Central Bank of India representing

the respondent No.2. 3. The facts of the case leading to filing of the present case are: The petitioner, who was the Managing Director of BCEPL, was arrayed as

A1. The case of the prosecution was that all the accused were a party to a

criminal conspiracy hatched among themselves in Hyderabad and Chennai

and other places during the years 2010-13 in defrauding and cheating the

consortium of banks led by the Central Bank of India. In furtherance of the

said criminal conspiracy, the accused persons induced Central Bank of

India, Corporate Finance Branch, Chennai, by submitting fraudulent letter

of credit documents without any physical movement of goods and

unlawfully availed credit facilities for which they were not eligible and

diverted the loan amount for the purposes other than which it was

sanctioned. As on 19-11-2013, they had caused a wrongful loss to a tune of
 Dr.GRR,J 4 WP No.11440 of 2021 Rs.133.31 Crores and corresponding unlawful gain to themselves. A charge

sheet was filed under Section 120-B read with 420, 465 & 471 IPC arraying the petitioner as accused No. 1. 3.1. The learned counsel for the petitioner contended that at the time

of sanction of loan, the petitioner was not on the rolls of A2, therefore, the

question of the petitioner being a party to the conspiracy would not arise. The petitioner occupied the seat of the Managing Director of A2 company

in February 2012, whereas the loan was sanctioned in 2010. Therefore,

none of the charging provisions in the charge sheet or in the complaint

would apply to the petitioner. The allegations in the FIR and charge sheet

were civil in nature and the same would not attract the ingredients of a

criminal offence. The case of the bank with respect to the FIR dated

01.02.2016 would only relate to a commercial dispute for recovery of debt

and grant of credit facility. The case was civil in nature and no criminal

offence was made out against the petitioner. The grant of credit facility

was purely for business purposes and the recovery of the same could only

be related to dispute of civil nature and not otherwise and non-payment of

credit facility ipso facto was not an offence under IPC . The respondents

malafidely given colour of a criminal offence to a civil dispute. The
 Dr.GRR,J 5 WP No.11440 of 2021 complaint given by the bank was nothing but abuse of process of law and

the same was driven by ulterior motives. 3.2 It was not the case of the prosecution that sanctioning of loan

was fraudulent or A2 Company had induced the bank for sanctioning credit

facilities to A2. The prosecution had not made any official of bank as an

accused nor found fault in the manner in which credit facilities were

sanctioned to A2 Company. When the bank sanctioned credit facilities as

per RBI norms, the prosecution could not say that there was any dishonest

intention at the very inception warranting a charge under Section 420 IPC. The charge under Section 420 IPC against the petitioner was not

maintainable. 3.3 On the basis of the proposal given by A2 company to regularise

the account, the lead banker namely, the Central Bank of India asked A2

company to deposit a sum of Rs.5.00 Crores to show the bonafides and in

furtherance thereof A2 company complied with the same. The Bank was

holding a sum of Rs.5.00 Crores in a No Lien account till 2017 and the

minute the prosecution filed a final report, the bank adjusted the 5.00

Crores towards the loan account. The Bank had not dealt with the matter in

a fair manner and was resorting to frivolous prosecution. The Bank had
 Dr.GRR,J 6 WP No.11440 of 2021 prime properties available as securities in Chennai, Hyderabad and had

already initiated SARFAESI proceedings. The bank filed O.A. No.198 of

2014 before DRT-1, Chennai and obtained a recovery certificate. The

proceedings were pending. The bankers were converting a commercial

dispute into a criminal case. 3.4 The case of the prosecution was heavily based on the forensic

report prepared in March, 2014 by M/s. Jai Singh & Associates, Mumbai

which was bereft of any details and was of full of lacunae. The A2

company had got its transaction audit done. There was no evidence of any

siphoning of funds or misappropriation of funds. There could be no case

against A2 company as the transaction audit would clearly show that there

was no money lying in the hands of A2 company. 3.5 The prosecution complaint was based on a false premise. The

role of the petitioner in the charge sheet was only that he was the Managing

Director of A2 at the relevant point of time. The company was never given

an opportunity to explain the accounts. A2 company was a 100 year old

company and contributed immensely to the economy of the country. No

FIR was ever registered against the company except the present one. It was

only because of the tussle between the management of the bank and the
 Dr.GRR,J 7 WP No.11440 of 2021 petitioner, which led to filing of the complaint without following proper

procedure and consequently the FIR and charge sheet. The complaint bank

did not follow the due procedure of law before filing the complaint. Neither

the Board of Directors of A2 company nor any other consortium bank was

informed by the complainant bank. The guarantors were also not informed. The complainant bank ought to have informed the RBI before filing the

complaint. It also ignored the past audit report before lodging the

complaint. The additional credit facility sanctioned by bank of Rs.500.00

Crores was not availed by A2. 3.6 No charge of forgery was maintainable against the petitioner

since it was not the case of the prosecution that the petitioner dishonestly or

fraudulently signed, sealed or executed a document or a part of the

document with the intention of causing it to be believed that such document

was made, sealed, signed, executed by the authority of a person which he

knew it was not made. The transactions which A2 company entered were

all genuine transactions. In the absence of any cogent material, it was not

possible to conclude that Section 465 IPC would be applicable to the case

in hand. Similarly, Section 471 IPC would also have no application as

there was no material to show that the petitioner had used a forged or

fabricated document. Dr.GRR,J 8 WP No.11440 of 2021 3.7. He further contended that there were allegations in the

complaint that criminal conspiracy to commit the offence was hatched in

Hyderabad and Chennai. The Head Quarter branch of the Andhra Bank

which forwarded the credit facility to BCEPL was in Hyderabad. The

investigation of some of the transactions took place in Hyderabad. Further,

in connection with the investigation in FIR No.4(E) of 2017 lodged by

Respondent No.1, W.P. No.9590 of 2019 was filed before this Court

challenging issuance of summons and vide order dated 13.04.2019, this

Court protected the petitioner therein from arrest. In terms of Article

226(2) of the Constitution of India, the territorial jurisdiction of the High

Court would be determined if cause of action, wholly or partly, arose

within its territorial jurisdiction. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Navinchandra N. Majithia v. State of Maharashtra1 held that mere fact

that FIR was registered in a particular state was not the sole criteria to

decide that no cause of action had arisen even partly within the territorial

limits of jurisdiction of another State. The aforesaid view was

subsequently reiterated by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Rajendra

Ramachandra Kavalekar v. State of Maharashtra2 . In view of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court, this Court had jurisdiction to 1 (2000) 7 SCC 640 2 (2009) 11 SCC 286
 Dr.GRR,J 9 WP No.11440 of 2021 entertain the writ petition and prayed to allow the same by quashing the

proceedings in C.C. No.3449 of 2018 pending before Additional Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore, Chennai and to quash the charge sheet in

RC No.4 of 2016 including the order dated 8-5-2018 passed by the

Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore, Chennai. 3.8 The learned counsel for the petitioner relied upon the judgment

of Hon'ble Apex Court in Navinchandra N Majithia 's case (1 supra) on

the aspect that mere fact that FIR was registered in a particular State was

not the sole criteria to decide that no cause of action had arisen evenly

partly within the territorial limits of jurisdiction of another State. The courts

must ascertain whether any part of the cause of action has arisen within the

territorial limits of its jurisdiction. He relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble

Apex Court in State of Haryana Vs. Bhajan Lal3 wherein the

circumstances/categories of cases where power to quash under Article 226 or Section 482 of Cr.P.C. could be exercised by the courts was stated. He

relied upon the judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in Sathishchandra

Ratanlal Shah v. State of Gujarat & Anr.4 , wherein it was held that mere

inability of the appellant to return the loan amount could not give rise to

criminal prosecution for cheating under Section 420 IPC unless fraudulent 3 (1992) Supp 1 SCC 335 4 (2019) 9 SCC 148
 Dr.GRR,J 10 WP No.11440 of 2021 or dishonest intention was shown right from the beginning of the

transaction. He also relied upon the judgments of Hon'ble Apex Court in

the case of Vesa Holdings Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. State of Kerala & Ors.5 , Sushil Sethi & Anr. v. State of Arunachal Pradesh & Anr.6 and V.Y

Jose & Anr. v. State of Gujarat & Anr.7 on the aspect that when there

were no specific allegations against the accused persons in the FIR as well

as in the charge sheet that fraudulent and dishonest intention was from the

very beginning of the transactions investigated into, the offence of cheating

under Section 420 IPC was not made out. 4. The learned Additional Solicitor General of India, on the other

hand, raised a preliminary objection of maintainability of the Writ of

Certiorari as it was filed for quashing a judicial proceeding for taking

cognizance by a competent criminal court which fell outside the territorial

jurisdiction and superintendence of this court. He contended that the

present case was transformed into a judicial proceedings and a competent

criminal court had taken cognizance of the matter. The said court was

under the territorial jurisdiction of the High Court of Madras and the

superintendence and revisional jurisdiction over the said court was 5 (2015) 8 SCC 293 6 Crl.Appeal No. 125 of 2020 7 (2009) 3 SCC 78
 Dr.GRR,J 11 WP No.11440 of 2021 exercised by the High Court of Madras under Article 227 of the

Constitution of India. This court could not judicially review the action of

the competent Magistrate in taking cognizance under Section 190 Cr.P.C. and issue in process under Section 204 Cr.P.C. The entire cause of action

arose in Chennai, outside the territorial jurisdiction of this court. The relief

granted by this court in W.P. No.9590 of 2019 to the petitioners therein

pertained to the summons issued by the CBI during investigation, as such

there was no relevance in the context of the present criminal petition. All

the records were with the court under the jurisdiction of High Court of

Madras. As such High Court of Madras was proper and appropriate forum

and relied upon several judgements of the Hon'ble Apex Court in: before the High Court of Madras vide Cr.P.No.12595 of 2020 and Cr.M.P.

Nos.4871 & 4952 of 2020 for quashing the proceedings in C.C. No.3449 of

2018 on the file of ACMM, Egmore, Chennai which was dismissed as

withdrawn on 11-9-2020. Vide order dated 8-10-2020, the High Court of

Madras dismissed the Criminal Petition No.15975 of 2020 and Cr.M.P.

No.6113 of 2020 filed by A2 for quashing the proceedings in C.C. No.3449

of 2018 as further investigation was pending in the case. The petitioner

approached the subordinate courts of Chennai and the High Court of 13 2013 Law Suit (Ker) 1479
 Dr.GRR,J 13 WP No.11440 of 2021 Madras during the investigation and after filing the charge sheet. All other

accused persons are companies in C.C. No. 3449 of 2018 and had

approached the courts in Chennai. The petitioner for the reasons best

known to him resorted to forum shopping, which was against the principle

of legal propriety and to subvert the process of law. The court had

discretionary power not to entertain the matter on the ground that there

existed more appropriate court of competent jurisdiction which would be in

a better position to decide the matter and prayed to dismiss the petition. 4.2 He also further contended about the role of the petitioner in the

case on merits and the documents filed along with the charge sheet and

several correspondences made by the petitioner with banks showing his

active involvement in the business and his role in applying for fresh loans

for Rs.900.00 Crores from existing loan of Rs.300.00 Crores. He contended

that the petitioner was actively involved in company business and made

efforts to open fresh letters of credit in March 2013 in the names of Ganga

Exim Pvt. Ltd. and Global Forging Ltd and that the petitioner had

submitted management representation letter to statutory auditor of the

company stating that all the transactions related to the company were

genuine during the financial year ended on 31-3-2013. The investigation

established that all the transactions of A2 company were fake and LC's
 Dr.GRR,J 14 WP No.11440 of 2021 were opened in the name of fictitious suppliers. He submitted that the

petitioner was authorised signatory in all consortium bank accounts since

29-4-2013. The petitioner addressed to the AGM, Central Bank of India,

Chennai regarding regularisation of account stating that he dealt with

debtors. Majority debtor companies were trading/shell companies. No

amount was recovered from them. No legal action was initiated against

them. The petitioner suppressed the material fact that two other FIRs were

registered against him and were under active investigation on the complaint

lodged by Andhra Bank (FIR No. RC. 04/E/2017) and Corporation Bank

(FIR No. RC.14/E/2018). 4.3 The loan default was not due to business difficulty but part of a

well designed and planned criminal conspiracy to defraud the public sector

banks, through the crony/paper companies shown as suppliers by diverting

the funds from the accused companies accounts to the personal account of

the accused petitioner. There existed a clear money trail which linked the

suppliers arrayed as A8 to A11 to the petitioner/A1. The forensic audit

demonstrated the extent of fraud. False net worth certificates were

furnished by the petitioner to the banks for sanction of credit limit. There

existed a criminal angle to the entire episode, wherein the petitioner/A1

played a key role and was a prime conspirator. Dr.GRR,J 15 WP No.11440 of 2021 4.4 The charge sheet and the annexed material documents and the

list of witnesses would clearly demonstrate the role of the petitioner prima

facie in the entire episode. The essential ingredients of Section 120B , 420 , 465 , 471 IPC were well established. There existed sufficient and cogent

material for prosecuting the petitioner and the same could be better

appreciated in a criminal trial and prayed to dismiss the petition on the

ground of lack of jurisdiction and on the ground that the petition was

devoid of merit. 5. In view of the above contentions the following questions arise for

consideration: 6. Question No 1:- 6.1 The Hon'ble Apex Court in ONGC v. Utpal Kumar Basu14

observed that: Therefore, in determining the objection of lack of territorial
jurisdiction the court must take all the facts pleaded in support
of the cause of action into consideration albeit without
embarking upon an enquiry as to the correctness or otherwise of
the said facts. In other words the question whether a High Court
has territorial jurisdiction to entertain a writ petition must be
answered on the basis of the averments made in the petition, the
truth or otherwise whereof being immaterial. To put it
differently, the question of territorial jurisdiction must be
decided on the facts pleaded in the petition. The Supreme Court in Saka Venkata Subba Rao case while
interpreting Article 226 as it then stood observed as under: Thus, this Court ruled that in the absence of a specific provision
in Article 226 on the lines of the Code of Civil Procedure , the
High Court cannot exercise jurisdiction on the plea that the
whole or part of the cause of action had arisen within its
jurisdiction. This view was followed in subsequent cases. The
consequence was that only the High Court of Punjab could
exercise jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution
against the Union of India and other bodies located in Delhi. To
remedy this situation, clause (1-A) was inserted by the
15th Amendment Act, 1963, to confer on the High Courts
jurisdiction to entertain a petition under Article 226 against the
Union of India or any other body or authority located in Delhi if
the cause of action has arisen, wholly or in part, within its
 Dr.GRR,J 18 WP No.11440 of 2021 Jurisdiction. Clause (1-A) was later renumbered as clause (2)
 of Article 226. Therefore, the learned counsel for NICCO is
 right that this amendment was introduced to supersede the view
 taken by this Court in the aforesaid case. But as stated earlier, on
 a plain reading of clause (2) of Article 226 , it is clear that the
 power conferred by clause (1) can be exercised by the High
 Court provided the cause of action, wholly or in part, had arisen
 within its territorial limits. 6.2 In Alchemist Vs. State Bank of Sikkim15 , the Hon'ble Apex

Court held that, 12. Before entering into the controversy in the present appeal, let
 the legal position be examined: Article 226 of the Constitution
 as it originally enacted had two-fold limitations on the
 jurisdiction of High Courts with regard to their territorial
 jurisdiction. Firstly, the power could be exercised by the High
 Court "throughout the territories in relation to which it exercises
 jurisdiction", i.e. the writs issued by the court cannot run beyond
 the territories subject to its jurisdiction. Secondly, the person or
 authority to whom the High Court is empowered to issue such
 writs must be "within those territories", which clearly implied
 that they must be amenable to its jurisdiction either by residence
 or location within those territories. 13. In Election Commission, India v. Saka Venkata Rao , 1953
 SCR 1144 : AIR 1953 SC 210, the petitioner applied to the High
 Court of Madras under Article 226 of the Constitution for a writ
 of prohibition restraining the Election Commission, (a statutory
 authority constituted by the President) having its office
 permanently located at New Delhi, from inquiring into the
 alleged disqualification of the petitioner from membership of the
 Madras Legislative Assembly. The High Court of Madras issued
 a writ. The aggrieved petitioner approached this Court. Allowing
 the appeal and reversing the decision of the High Court, this
 Court held that the High Court of Madras had no territorial
 jurisdiction to entertain the petition. Speaking for the Court, Patanjali Sastri, C.J. made the following
 observations: (emphasis supplied) As to the cause of action, the Court stated: Again, a question arose in Khajoor Singh v. Union of India ,
(1961) 2 SCR 528 : AIR 1961 SC 532. A Bench of seven Judges
was called upon to consider the correctness or otherwise of Saka
Venkata Rao. The majority (Sinha, C.J., Kapoor,
Gajendragadkar, Wanchoo, Das Gupta and Shah, JJ.) reaffirmed
and approved the view taken by this Court earlier in Saka
Venkata Rao and held that the High Court of Jammu & Kashmir
was right in not entertaining the writ petition filed by the
petitioner on the ground that it had no territorial jurisdiction.
Speaking for the majority, Sinha, C.J., stated: "It seems to us
therefore that it is not permissible to read in Article 226 the
 Dr.GRR,J 20 WP No.11440 of 2021 residence or location of the person affected by the order passed
in order to determine the jurisdiction of the High Court. That
jurisdiction depends on the person or authority passing the order
being within those territories and the residence or location of the
person affected can have no relevance on the question of the
High Court's jurisdiction". The effect of the above decisions was that no High Court other
than the High Court of Punjab (before the establishment of the
High Court of Delhi) had jurisdiction to issue any direction,
order or writ to the Union of India, because the seat of the
Government of India was located in New Delhi. Cause of action
was a concept totally irrelevant and alien for conferring
jurisdiction on High Courts under Article 226 of the
Constitution. An attempt to import such concept was repelled by
this Court. In the circumstances, Article 226 was amended by
the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 and after
Clause 1, new Clause (1-A) was inserted which read as under: It may be stated that by the Constitution (Forty-
second Amendment) Act, 1976, Clause (1-A) was renumbered
as Clause (2). The underlying object of amendment was
expressed in the following words: "Under the existing Article
226 of the Constitution, the only High Court which has
jurisdiction with respect to the Central Government is the
Punjab High Court. This involves considerable hardship to
litigants from distant places. It is, therefore, proposed to
amend Article 226. So that when any relief is sought against any
Government, authority or person for any action taken, the High
Court within whose jurisdiction the cause of action arises may
also have jurisdiction to issue appropriate directions, orders or
writs". (emphasis supplied) The effect of the amendment was that the
accrual of cause of action was made an additional ground to
confer jurisdiction on a High Court under Article 226 of the
Constitution. Dr.GRR,J 21 WP No.11440 of 2021 As Joint Committee observed: 18. The legislative history of the constitutional provisions,
therefore, make it clear that after 1963, cause of action is
relevant and germane and a writ petition can be instituted in a
High Court within the territorial jurisdiction of which cause of
action in whole or in part arises. It may be stated that the expression 'cause of action' has neither
been defined in the Constitution nor in the Code of Civil
Procedure , 1908. It may, however, be described as a bundle of
essential facts necessary for the plaintiff to prove before he can
succeed. Failure to prove such facts would give the defendant a
right to judgment in his favour. Cause of action thus gives
occasion for and forms the foundation of the suit. The classic
definition of the expression 'cause of action' is found in Cooke v.
Gill, (1873) 8 CP 107 : 42 LJ PC 98, wherein Lord Brett
observed: For every action, there has to be a cause of action. If there is no
cause of action, the plaint or petition has to be dismissed. Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee, Senior Advocate appearing for the
Appellant-Company placed strong reliance on A.B.C. Laminart
Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. A.P. Agencies, Salem , (1989) 2 SCC 163 : In Kusum Ingots & Alloys Ltd. v. Union of India (UOI) & Anr. ,
(2004) 6 SCC 254 : JT 2004 (Supp. 1) 475, the appellant was a
Company registered under the Indian Companies Act having its
Head Office at Mumbai. It obtained a loan from the Bhopal
 Dr.GRR,J 23 WP No.11440 of 2021 Branch of the State Bank of India. The Bank issued a notice for
 repayment of loan from Bhopal under the Securitisation and
 Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
 Interest Act, 2002 . The appellant Company filed a writ petition
 in the High Court of Delhi which was dismissed on the ground
 of lack of territorial jurisdiction. The Company approached this
 Court and contended that as the constitutionality of a
 Parliamentary legislation was questioned, the High Court of
 Delhi had the requisite jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition. 37. From the aforesaid discussion and keeping in view the ratio laid down in catena of decisions by this Court, it is clear that for
 the purpose of deciding whether facts averred by the petitioner
 appellant, would or would not constitute a part of cause of
 action, one has to consider whether such fact constitutes a
 material, essential, or integral part of the cause of action. It is no
 doubt true that even if a small fraction of the cause of action
 arises within the jurisdiction of the Court, the Court would have
 territorial jurisdiction to entertain the suit/petition. Nevertheless
 it must be a 'part of cause of action', nothing less than." 6.3 The High Court of Madras in A. John Kennedy and Ors. v. Joint Director, Directorate of Enforcement, Cochin Zonal Office16

extracting the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Kusum Ingots and

Alloys Ltd. [AIR 2004 SC 2321] observed that, even if a small part of

cause of action arises within the territorial jurisdiction of the High Court,

the same by itself may not be a determinative factor to decide the matter on

merit. It observed that: conveniens", the Supreme Court held as follows: 23. Whether the principle of "Forum-Conveniens" or analogous
principles, will apply or not, for consideration of an Application
for leave to sue under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent, fell for
consideration before a Full Bench of this Court in Duro Flex
Pvt. Limited Vs. Duroflex Sittings System , reported in 2014 (6)
CTC 577 (FB) : (2014) 5 LW 673 (FB) : AIR 2015 Mad 30 (FB)
= (2015) 1 MLJ 774 (FB), wherein it was held as follows: 24. Recently, this Court has also held in O.S.A.Nos.38, 40 and
 42 of 2020 (Sulphur Mills Limited Vs. M/s.Dayal Fertilizers
 Pvt. Limited and three others), by judgment dated 11.11.2020
 that, even though a part of cause of action arises in one Court
 and the major part of cause of action had arisen within the
 jurisdiction of the other Court, the petition is not maintainable
 before the Court where the small part of cause of action had
 arisen." 6.4 The High Court of Madras in Karthi P. Chidambaram and

Ors. v. Superintendent of Police held that: 7. Thus all these cases would show how the legal position under

Article 226(2) is evolving, how the concept of cause of action is

incorporated in Article 226, the history behind it and though initially it is

stated that even if a small fraction of the cause of action arises within the

jurisdiction of the Court, that Court would have territorial jurisdiction to

entertain the suit/petition to the extent that the petition is not maintainable

before the Court where a small part of cause of action had arisen and the

major part of cause of action shall be considered for applicability of

territorial jurisdiction of the Court and had taken a full circle in observing

that the concept of part of cause of action is irrelevant and had no

application in criminal proceedings and only that High Court could
 Dr.GRR,J 27 WP No.11440 of 2021 entertain a prayer for quashing which has the supervisory jurisdiction over

the jurisdictional court which is monitoring the investigation as per Cr.P.C. 8. The issue whether a writ petition under Article 226 is maintainable

against a Criminal Court situated outside the territorial jurisdiction of the

Court as well as whether the Court could judicially review the action of the

Magistrate in taking cognizance of the offence located outside the territorial

jurisdiction of the court is considered by the High Court of Kerala in Augustine Babu P.M. Vs. Mohd. Samiur Rahman Ansari and Ors.17 It held that: The said clause was introduced as clause (1A) by the
 15th Amendment Act, 1963, in view of the decisions
 of the Apex Court in Election Commission, India v. Commission ((1954) S.C.R 738), Lt. Col. Khajoor
 Singh v. Union Of India & Another (AIR 1961 SC 532) and Collector of Customs v. E.I Commercial
 Co. (AIR 1963 SC 1124). The result of the above
 decisions was that Writ Petitions under Art.226 against the Union of India were maintainable only in
 the High Court of Punjab, as at the relevant time the
 territory of national capital was under the jurisdiction
 of the said High Court. The High Courts of Madras
 and Assam took a different view that if part of the
 cause of action arose within the respective States,
 writs could be issued to the Union of India by them.
 To get over the above decisions of the Apex Court
 and make the law in tune with the decisions of the
 above High Courts, the amendment was introduced. Art.226 was drastically amended by Constitution
 42nd Amendment Act, 1976. The original position
 was substantially restored later, by the Constitution
 44 Amendment Act, 1978 . In view of clause (2) of Art.226 , if part of the cause of action arose in the
 State, writ could be issued against an authority,
 though the seat of it is outside the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court. 10. But, the cause of action which must arise in Kerala for
issuing the writs of certiorari or prohibition, must relate to
the commissions or omissions of an inferior court or Tribunal
amenable to the writ jurisdiction of this Court and not that of
a private party. This Court cannot judicially review the
actions of the 1 respondent. It may file any complaint before
any court. It may do it rightly or wrongly. The 1st respondent
being a private party not amenable to the writ jurisdiction of
this Court, we cannot judicially review its actions. But, the
point to be decided is whether we can judicially review the
action of the Magistrate in taking cognizance under
 Dr.GRR,J 30 WP No.11440 of 2021 S.190(1)(a) read with S.200 of the Cr.P.C of the offence
 alleged against the petitioner and issuing process under S.204
 The entire cause of action, as far as the action of the learned
 Magistrate is concerned, arose in Coimbatore, outside the
 jurisdiction of this Court. So, even if the complainant has
 wrongly filed a complaint before the Coimbatore court, the
 action of taking cognizance and issuance of the process took
 place outside the jurisdiction of this Court. Therefore, we
 have no doubt in our mind that the reliefs sought in this Writ
 Petition cannot be granted by this Court. We are of the view
 that the decision of the Division Bench in M/S. Ubc & Others
 v. M.R Govarthanam (2005 (2) KLT 461) lays down the
 correct legal position. The observation in Krishnakumar
 Menon's case concerning the power of this Court under Art.226 of the Constitution of India is an obiter. Further, the
 decision of the Apex Court in Navinchandra 's case (supra)
 cannot have any application to a case arising on a private
 complaint under (2009) 3 SCC 78. In Navinchandra 's case,
 the Apex Court considered the question regarding quashing
 of an F.I.R and the criminal investigation conducted by the
 police in Shillong about the offences committed or the cause
 of action which arose in Maharashtra State. So, as the police
 from Shillong has to do investigation in Maharashtra, the
 Apex Court observed that the Bombay High Court has
 jurisdiction in the matter. The said observation can have no
 application to a private complaint, based on which a
 Magistrate's court, which is outside the jurisdiction of the
 Kerala High Court takes cognizance and proceeds with the
 trial. So, the observation in Krishnakumar Menon's case,
 concerning the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article
 226 of the Constitution of India, does not lay down the
 correct legal position, as far as private complaints are
 concerned. Even if the cause of action for the complaint
 under S.138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act arose in
 Kerala, the Kerala High Court cannot interfere with the
 proceedings before a criminal court, outside the jurisdiction
 of this Court." 9. In the present case also the learned senior counsel for the

petitioners placed reliance upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

reported in Navin Chandra N. Majithia 's case (to contend that from the

provision in clause (2) of Article 226 it is clear that the maintainability or
 Dr.GRR,J 31 WP No.11440 of 2021 otherwise of the writ petition in the High court would depend on whether

the cause of action for filing the same arose, wholly or in part, within the

territorial jurisdiction of the Court. 10. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Mosaraf Hossain Khan 's case (8

supra) held that: 29. The High Court, however, must remind themselves about the
 doctrine of forum non conveniens also. [See Mayar (H.K) Ltd.&
 Ors. vs. Owners & Parties Vessel M.V. Fortune Express & Ors . - 2006 (2) SCALE 30] 11. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Shri Rajendra Ramchandra

Kavlekar 's case (9 supra) held that: 15. The learned Senior Counsel for the respondents further
 submitted that the investigation in RC Case No. 1(A) of 2004 is
 completed by CBI, Ranchi and the charge sheet against the
 appellant and against Shri P.C. Ram, Dispatch Clerk of Ranchi
 University has been filed before the Special Judge (CBI), Ranchi
 and the same is pending consideration. Therefore, the learned
 counsel would submit that the High Court of Judicature at
 Bombay was right in declining to entertain the criminal writ
 petition filed by the appellant. Dr.GRR,J 33 WP No.11440 of 2021 22. In the instant case, CBI has initiated the suo motu
 investigation against the appellant. In the first information report
 filed before the Special Judge (CBI), Ranchi, it is stated that
 during the course of investigation of RC Case No. 1(A) of 2004,
 which was registered pursuant to the orders of the High Court of
 Jharkhand at Ranchi, a reliable source of information had been
 received to the effect that Shri Rajendra Ramchandra Kavalekar
 (the appellant) had entered into a criminal conspiracy with the
 other unknown persons including the officials of Ranchi
 University during academic year 1993-1994 by obtaining the
 false and forged marksheets of Ranchi University, and, further,
 on the strength of those false and fabricated documents
 pertaining to his graduation degree, fraudulently and dishonestly
 obtained employment in India Tourism Development
 Corporation as Cashier-cum Sales Assistant. 25. A bare perusal of the complaint filed would clearly go to
 show that the cause of action arose within the jurisdiction of
 Special Judge (CBI), Ranchi, the investigation is completed in
 Ranchi, all the records and the documents pertaining to
 complaint and the charge sheet are before the Special Judge
 (CBI), Ranchi, and therefore, in our considered view, the High
 Court of Judicature at Bombay was perfectly justified in
 declining to entertain the Writ Petition filed by the petitioner." 12. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Dashrath Rupsingh Rathod 's case

(10 supra) held that: Therefore, while the convenience of the Defendant in a civil
action may be relevant, the convenience of the so called
complainant/victim has little or no role to play in criminal
prosecution. Keeping in perspective the presence of the word
"ordinarily" in Section 177 of CrPC, we hasten to adumbrate
that the exceptions to it are contained in the CrPC itself, that is,
in the contents of the succeeding Section 178. The CrPC also
contains an explication of "complaint" as any allegation to a
Magistrate with a view to his taking action in respect of the
commission of an offence; not being a police report. Prosecution
ensues from a Complaint or police report for the purpose of
determining the culpability of a person accused of the
commission of a crime; and unlike a civil action or suit is carried
out (or 'prosecuted') by the State or its nominated agency. The
principal definition of "prosecution" imparted by Black's Law
Dictionary 5th Edition is "a criminal action; the proceeding
instituted and carried on by due process of law, before a
competent Tribunal, for the purpose of determining the guilt or
innocence of a person charged with crime." These reflections are
necessary because Section 142(b) of the NI Act contains the
words, "the cause of action arises under the proviso to Section
138 ", resulting arguably, but in our opinion irrelevantly, to the
blind borrowing of essentially civil law attributes onto criminal
proceedings. 16.2 We reiterate that Section 178 admits of no debate that in
criminal prosecution, the concept of "cause of action", being the
bundle of facts required to be proved in a suit and accordingly
also being relevant for the place of suing, is not pertinent or
germane for determining territorial jurisdiction of criminal
Trials. Section 178 , CrPC explicitly states that every offence
shall ordinarily be inquired into and tried by a Court within
whose local jurisdiction it was committed. Section 179 is of
similar tenor. We are also unable to locate any provision of
the NI Act which indicates or enumerates the extraordinary
circumstances which would justify a departure from the
stipulation that the place where the offence is committed is
where the prosecution has to be conducted. In fact, since
 Dr.GRR,J 35 WP No.11440 of 2021 cognizance of the offence is subject to the five Bhaskaran
 components or concomitants the concatenation of which ripens
 the already committed offence under Section 138 NI Act into a
 prosecutable offence, the employment of the phrase "cause of
 action" in Section 142 of the NI Act is apposite for taking
 cognizance, but inappropriate and irrelevant for determining
 commission of the subject offence. There are myriad examples
 of the commission of a crime the prosecution of which is
 dependent on extraneous contingencies such as obtainment of
 sanction for prosecution under Section 19 of the Prevention of
 Corruption Act 1988. Similar situation is statutorily created by Section 19 of the Environmental Protection Act 1986, Section
 11 of the Central Sales Tax Act 1956, Section 279 of the Income
 Tax Act, Sections 132 and 308 , CrPC, Section 137 of the
 Customs Act etc. It would be idle to contend that the offence
 comes into existence only on the grant of permission for
 prosecution, or that this permission constitutes an integral part of
 the offence itself. It would also be futile to argue that the place
 where the permission is granted would provide the venue for the
 trial. If sanction is not granted the offence does not vanish.
 Equally, if sanction is granted from a place other than where the
 crime is committed, it is the latter which will remain the place
 for its prosecution." 13. The High Court of Madras in S Ilanahai 's case (11 supra) held

that: 14. The High Court of Madras in A.M Asha 's case (12 supra) held

that" 15. The High Court of Kerala in Anil Kumar 's case (12 supra) held

that: However, such an undesirable result is likely to emerge if this
Court proceeds to entertain the Writ Petition seeking to quash
under Article 226 the proceedings of the Criminal Court at
Erode over which the High Court of Madras is competent to
exercise the power under Article 226 and 227 of the
Constitution. Added to the above jurisdictional factors, the High
Court competent to exercise the power conferred under Section
482 of Crl.P.C. and to quash the proceedings of the Criminal
Court at Erode so as to prevent failure of justice or abuse of the
process of that subordinate Court, is the High Court of Madras.
If the subordinate Court commits jurisdictional errors, the High
Court having the power of superintendence can step in and
exercise the supervisory jurisdiction under Article
227 appropriately. It is settled law that interference under Article
227(1) can be suo motu as well. Notwithstanding the forum
chosen by the aggrieved party to challenge the proceedings of
the subordinate Court, the High Court having the power of
superintendence can suo motu exercise its power under Article
227 of the Constitution. Therefore, even in a case where the
cause of action has arisen wholly within the territorial limits of
another High Court, the High Court having the power of
superintendence over that subordinate Court which has initiated
proceedings or taken cognizance or otherwise proceeds with, in
respect of a matter the cause of action of which has arisen within
the jurisdiction of another Court can exercise the power to issue
writs under Article 226(1) as also the power of superintendence
under Article 227 and undo or set right the illegality. Therefore,
among the two High Courts mentioned above, the High Court
which is more appropriate would be the one within whose
jurisdictional limits the particular subordinate Court is situated
so that the powers conferred under Articles 226 and 227 of the
Constitution of India as also the power under Section 482
 Dr.GRR,J 39 WP No.11440 of 2021 Cr.P.C . can be exercised, as situation demands. This is the
rationale and logical basis for us to hold that the Writ Petition
filed to quash the proceedings of the Criminal Court at Erode
need not be entertained by this Court. 9. In the decision reported in Mosaraf Hossain Khan 's case
(supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as follows: 10. Further the same question has been considered by the Full
Bench of this court in Meenakshi Sathish Vs. Southern
Petrochemical Industries (supra) and observed as follows: 16. This Court also agrees with the view taken by the Kerala High

Court as the present case has reached the stage of completion of

investigation and entered the stage of taking cognizance by the Court which

is situated in another State, outside the territorial jurisdiction of this State, it

is considered not appropriate to call for records from the said Court over

which this Court would not have any superintendence to exercise its

jurisdiction. Dr.GRR,J 41 WP No.11440 of 2021 17. Hence this question is answered holding that even though a part

of cause of action arises in this State, as the investigation was culminated in

filing the charge sheet and the case is also taken cognizance by a competent

court situated outside the territorial limits of this State, this Court cannot

exercise its jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition under Article 226(2) of

the Constitution of India. 18. Since the question of territorial jurisdiction is answered against

the petitioner, it is considered not appropriate to deal with the merits of the

matter to answer question No.2. 19. Hence, the writ petition is dismissed. The petitioner can

approach the appropriate court for appropriate relief. No costs. Miscellaneous Petitions pending, if any, shall, stand closed. _____________________
 Dr. G. RADHA RANI, J

August 23, 2022
KTL\

Note: