SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J. The instant Public Interest Litigation has been filed for a Writ of

 Mandamus forbearing the respondents from construction, altering the

 nature, course and use of lands comprised in Survey No.148 at

 Viswesapuram Layout, Pammal Village marked for “Public Park”, in any

 manner or for any purpose and consequently direct the respondents to

 restore and maintain the lands. 2. The Writ Petitioner is a resident of Viswesapuram,

 Kancheepuram district. The approved layout for Viswesapuram was made in

 the year 1972. The said layout had designated the area comprised in

 S.No.148 as a Public Park. The said lands are classified as a “Primary

 Residential Area”. It is stated that the respondent authorities are now

 constructing a Municipal Solid Waste Management Plant/ Transfer Station in

http://www.judis.nic.in 3 the said area without any permission. It is stated that it is not open to the

 Municipality to utilise the area earmarked for park for the purpose of Solid

 Waste Management Plant. It is stated that they had purchased the land

 with an idea that there will be a park, which could be used for children to

 play and for the old to relax in the park. It is stated that the construction of

 the Municipal Solid Waste Management Plant would cause nuisance to the

 persons living in the area. 3. The Municipality has filed its Counter Affidavit. In the

 counter, it is stated that though the layout approval in S.No.148 in

 Viswesapuram Village was earmarked for park, it has not been used as a

 Park and that the relevant portion of the Counter reads as under:- The said combined plant with take care of the bio non
 degradable and other solid wastes for processing into fuel
 and other recyclable uses. 13. The averments of the petitioners in the para 3 are
 denied and stated that the land reserved for the park has
 been lying vacant without any use. Now in order to process
 the highly decompostable wastes such as kitchen and
 vegetable wastes collected in each surrounding area, small
 Micro Compost Plants are being set by this respondent
 throughout the Pammal Town. As of now 7 plants are to be
 established including that of the Plant in the Park site in
 question. Of the seven locations, 6 Plants are completed and
 one is under construction. 14. It is submitted that till date, there are no
 facilities in the said playground, that were created by the
 petitioner or association of residents of the layout. The
 entire park was in disuse. The claim of the petitioner in his
 affidavit as if the Respondent herein is going to dump
 garbage in the park site is a uninformed and careless
 statement. http://www.judis.nic.in 5 15. The purpose of gifting the Park site, to this
 respondent is for the use of the site for the Public benefit. In
 fact, the Park site is actually being developed as a
 recreational facility at a cost of Rs 25 Lakhs and the said
 work is part of the project to provide for the Micro Compost
 Plant at the park site. The total extent of the park site is
 1760 Square meters and the extent of the MCC is 331 Square
 meters, which is about 1 sixth of the total area of the park
 and it is a meagre extent compared to benefits the said
 facility will have on the overall environment. 16. It is submitted that as per the requirements of the
 Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 the authorities such as
 the respondent herein are bound to collect and dispose of
 solid waste generated within the municipal area using
 various methods permissible in the said rules. 17. The Bio-Degradable and non-biodegradable waste
 should be collected separately at source and properly
 disposed of. The said rules require that all Bio-degradable
 waste such as vegetable and house hold waste are to be
 processed using composting on windrows, platform and
 disposal of the end products as manure or other re-used
 materials. 18. The non-biodegradable materials are to be
 handled by Solid Waste Management facilities wherein the
 solid waste is properly handled for reuse and recycling and
 only the inert waste that are not more than 10% of the total
 solid waste is to be sent for land fill. In the Pammal
 Municipal area the total generation of Solid Waste per day is
 50 Metric Tons (MT) from 21wards. On segregation the bio-
 degradable organic waste of about 24 MT per day is to be
 disposed off by the process of composting or windrow
 process. Since the rule requires segregation at source and the
 vegetable waste is highly de compostable the said source and
 vegetable waste is highly de compostable the said wastes are
 required to be handled and processed within a short time
 from the collection in ensuring proper reuse of the waste and
 to prevent unnecessary accumulation. http://www.judis.nic.in 6 19. A per the said Municipal Solid Waste Rules 2016 it
 is required for the local body to set up Municipal Solid Waste
 handling facility as well as Micro Composting Facility. The
 Micro Composting facilities are to be setup within a small
 geographical area so that the highly bio-degradable wastes
 such as vegetable, fruits, food waste can be reused by means
 of micro composting where the end-product, namely manure
 can be effectively used for gardening and also agricultural
 users. On the other hand non-biodegradable waste will be
 handled separately for reuse and recycling which is already
 segregated at source by way of primary collection and there
 will not be any dumped garbage's in the site. Further as per
 the above rules, the solid waste management bye laws have
 been notified and solid waste is to be segregated and
 separately deposited by the individual households. The non-
 bio-degradable waste are to be disposed only on Wednesday's
 and such non-bio-degradable waste is handled separately so
 that the non-bio-degradable waste that are left out in the
 streets of the residential areas will not spread any adour.
 The bio-degradable waste is separately handled and
 subjected to composting using enzymes and inoculum. 20. After the process of composting in the Micro
 Compost Plants, Odourless manure is produced within an
 enclosed place and is mixed with soil and packaged and
 subsequently disposed of for use as manure. In most cases,
 the Manure is used in the park itself as a method of
 encouraging the green cover in the park site. 21. The Pammal Municipality has been divided into 7
 Zones for the purpoe of establishing micro-composting
 facility and one such facility has been started in the part site
 within the layout Visvesapuram. These facilities will serve
 for the proper disposal of the household wastes collected
 within the short distance of a few hundred meters. The
 Primary collection of the solid waste for transportation to
 the micro compost plant will be by-means of non-polluting
 electric vehicles. The waste collected from the surrounding
 area will be brought to the composting facility and it will be
 immediately put into the composting process and there will
 not be any odour or insects from the waste. There will not be
 any dumping or accumulation of waste apprehended by the
 petitioner. http://www.judis.nic.in 7 22. The composting will be carried out in hermetically
 constructed tubs using bricks and concrete of proper
 specifications for water proofing and will be self-contained
 to prevent any spread of decaying matter or leachate into
 the surrounding environment. In-order to protect, the said
 tubs from the elements a roof has to be provided over the
 structure which will also consist only of easily removable
 Zinc Sheets. 23. It is submitted that the area required for setting
 up the micro composting facility is less than 331 Sq.M. On the
 other hand the total area available as a park site is to
 extent of 1760 Square Meters or about 18,938 Square feet.
 The Micro compost yard is only of an extent of 3562 square
 feet, which is a very meagre extent compared to the total
 area. Further over the rest of the park site, this respondent
 has already undertaken the development of the Park with
 Compound wall, walking path, green cover, Children's play
 equipment, etc. has been provided. 24. The project of construction of the MCCs in the
 Pammal Municipality has been granted Administrative
 Sanction in the proceedings of the Commissioner of Municipal
 Administration dated 21-2-2018 and Technical Sanction Dated
 21-2-2018. Resolution Number 240 dated 31-1-18 was passed
 sanctioning the construction of the MCCS in various
 localities, including ward No 7. Initially the site in
 Nandhanar Street was chosen and Resolution No 183 dated
 31-8-2017 was passed. Since there was huge public outcry in
 the said Street, alternate site was chosen in S.No.148,
 Visvesapuram and the present site was chosen. This site is
 near the existing Compost Yard in S.No. 151. In the 4 other
 sites also in view of the objections of the Public, the location
 was changed and the Resolution Number 240 dated 31-1-2018
 was passed. If all the residents object to the establishment
 of the MCCs, then it is not possible to implement the project
 that is aimed at alleviating the situation of the Municipality
 that is at present suffereing from lack of proper facilities for
 the disposal of the Solid Wastes. After the disposal of the
 previous Writ Petitions relating to the SBI colony and Jain
 Housing site, the 6 out of 7MCCs have been completed and
http://www.judis.nic.in 8 are in operation. 25. The Micro composting facility is to occupy only
 meagre portion of the park site. Over the rest of the Park,
 this respondent has established the proper recreational
 facility for the use of the residents and it will consist of
 paved walk ways, children's play equipment, sports facilities,
 volley ball court, etc. The Micro composting facilities will
 also consist of public convenience for the residents as well as
 the workers engaged in the composting facilities to prevent
 any open defecation in the area. This apart there will be
 small storage room for the safe storage of the packaged
 manure for storage before disposal. 27. After the notification of the 2016 Municipal Solid
 Waste Rules the State Government has directed the
 implementation of the same by various methodologies. The
 Steering Committee formed under the said Rules after
 extensive deliberations has formulated various
 methodologies suited for individual Local Bodies and as per
 the same for the respondent herein the proper methods for
 disposal of segregated solid waste has been derived as Micro
 Composting and waste processing. The waste processing has
 been set out to be the integrated Micro Solid Waste facility
 at Venkatamangalam used along with other Local Bodies
 namely Tambaram and Pallavapuram. The integrated facility
 will handle non bio-degradable waste and the bio-degradable
 materials will be processed at the 7 Micro Composting
 Centres within the Municipal limits. 28. There will not be any inconvenience to the
 residents who are living even right adjacent to the Micro
 Compost Plant as the process itself involves odourless
 technology and disposal of packaged of end product. The said
 Micro Composting Method is already successfully
 implemented in Trichy and Vellore Corporation areas in much
 more highly populated localities. The various apprehensions
 of the Writ Petition are all misconceived and without proper
 understanding of the waste disposal facility. 30. After successful completion of Micro Compost
 Centre the dumped waste in the open ground will not be
 accepted. Only segregated bio degradable waste will be
http://www.judis.nic.in 9 taken to the micro compost centre and it will process with
 proper scientific technology and disposed of and there will
 not be any dumping or accumulation of waste. Without the
 said facility the handling of the solid waste generated by the
 residents will be impossible. Further the establishment of
 the Micro Compost Plant in the Park site is only due to the
 fact that there is no other land available within the
 Municipal limit. Of the 7 Micro Composting Plant 1 is situated
 in Park site of the petitioners layout, and other 6 in similar
 layouts. 4. Heard the learned counsel appearing for both sides and

 perused the materials available on record. 5. The Counsel for the petitioner states that the area which has

 been earmarked for a park cannot be used for any other purpose.On the

 other hand, the learned counsel for the Municipality would contend that due

 to urbanization there is hardly any land left for use as a compost yard. It is

 argued that it is also one of the primary responsibilities of local

 Administrative Authorities to ensure proper management of waste

 generated by different categories of waste producers (house holds,

 commercial centres, institutions, industries, etc.,) It is contended by the

 learned for the Municipality that over the years the quantum of waste

 generated has increased in geometric progressions owing to increase in

 urbanization, population growth, change in life style etc.,. It is stated that

http://www.judis.nic.in 10 the total extent of the park site is 1760 sq mtrs and the extent of the Micro

 Compost Centre is only 331 sq mtrs which is about one sixth of the total

 area of the park. It is also argued that efforts are being taken to ensure

 that the park is maintained properly. In fact in the counter it is mentioned

 that even before the commencement of the Micro Compost centre the park

 site has been without any maintenance or upkeep and the same has been in

 disuse and the Municipality is developing the same into a park at a cost of

 Rs.25 lakhs. It is stated that in the said park already compound wall and

 grills have been erected. It is also stated that apart from this, footpath and

 green belts and play equipments will be installed. The learned counsel for the Municipality also contended that the writ

 petition should not be entertained in view of the alternate remedy available

 to the petitioner to approach the National Green Tribunal established under

 the National Green Tribunal Act . 6. Having a proper waste management program is one of the

 biggest challenges which is being faced by any Municipality. Courts can take

 judicial notice of the increase in the industrial, commercial and residential

 waste. Due to rapid urbanization, virtually no space is available for dumping

http://www.judis.nic.in 11 waste. The Municipalities have therefore to balance the competing interests

 of having parks/ lung space on one hand and dumping yards on the other

 hand. The Municipalities therefore cannot be found fault with for converting

 portions of parks in to dumping yard. It is also the duty of the Municipality

 to ensure that the parks are maintained properly and that the entire park is

 not converted into dumping yard. The majority of the park is being kept

 intact and only a small portion of the park is being utilized for the compost

 yard . Similar issues have been raised before this Court in the Writ Petitions

 challenging conversion of the park to micro compost yard. This Court, by its

 order dated 08.11.2017 in W.P.No.26704, 25653 and 26720 of 2017 in the

 case of Janakar Vs. The Commissioner, Hosur Municipality, Hosur, has

 observed as under:- 7. Similarly, the Division Bench of this Court by its order dated

 14.03.2018 in W.P.No.32938 of 2017 in the case of T.G.Ruthramani,

 Secretary, Poonamallee Nanbargal Nagar, Veettu Manai Urimaiyalargal

 Nalasangam, Poonamallee, Thiruvallur District, Chennai, Vs. The

 Member Secretary, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority,

 Thalamuthu Natarajan Maligal, Egmore, Chennai, has observed as under:- contained to prevent any spread of decaying matter or
 leachate into the surrounding environment. 17. Private lawns or public parks are not a
 luxury, as they were considered in the past. Public Park is
 a gift of modern civilization and that reservation of vacant
 land as an open land is in conformity with the rules and
 regulations for formation of the layout and is meant for
http://www.judis.nic.in 15 public use and enjoyment and it cannot be disputed that
 Open Space Reserve is treated as lung space. 18. The Apex Court has categorically held that
 where open space is preserved and earmarked in the plan
 for development of a planned town, the authorities cannot
 ignore the public interest and allot the same for
 construction of godowns, thereby causing environmental
 hazards. Ecology has been completely destroyed by human
 beings by encroaching OSR, playgrounds, river bunds,
 lakes, etc. But the official respondents must ensure that
 the waste has to be disposed of in a scientific manner. In a
 developing country, technicalities should not be a bar for
 development. 19. When a public park is a gift of modern
 civilization, Open Space Reserve is the lung space and
 setbacks are for the purpose of rain harvest, Micro
 Compost Yards are essential for disposal of the waste, so
 that it will not endanger the health of the citizens, more
 particularly, children, who are likely to be affected on
 account of mosquitoes, flies, etc, which cause air borne
 and water-borne diseases. When citizens want
 development, certainly, they will have to co-operate for
 the betterment of the environment and ensure that no
 pollution is caused on account of their attitude in
 disposing of the waste from their respective residence.
 Though, strictly speaking, Development Rules have come
 into effect in 1975 and that the layout in question was
 approved in 1972, there is no hard and fast rule that there
 cannot be any development at all. 20. Residents/citizens cannot expect the
 authorities to identify a different place far away from the
 place of residence to have a Compost Yard and that there
 is a possibility of the residents of that area to object for
 setting up of a Compost Yard for disposal of the waste
 which are not generated from their residence. 21. Now that the Government has come up with
 effective policies in segregation of wastes of all kinds,
 people are expected to welcome such measures and must
 co-operate with the authorities in maintaining a healthy
http://www.judis.nic.in 16 environment. Even though garbage bins are set up in every
 street, it is painful to see people throw garbage near the
 bin and not into the bin. From stone-age, we have come
 to the modern era. Certainly development is required for
 our betterment and hence, technicalities should not come
 in the way that may be detrimental to the development of
 the Society. 22. In view of the above and taking into account
 the submissions of the 1st respondent/Municipality that
 the Micro Compost Yard, that is to be set up in the
 Playground in question, will be neatly maintained without
 any pollution and that only a meagre portion of the
 Playground is required for setting up of Micro Compost
 Yard, this Court finds no reason to interfere with the
 impugned tender notice published by the 1st
 respondent/Municipality. 23. It is made clear that if the Micro Compost
 Yard that is to be set up in the Playground in question is
 not maintained properly, the officials, who are in-charge
 of that place during the relevant period shall be dismissed
 from service, on the ground that the Officer has failed to
 maintain absolute integrity, devotion to duty and that he
 has done the work of unbecoming of a member of his
 service. 9. As noticed in the above said judgments, it is the duty of the

 Municipal authorities to ensure that there is no nuisance created to the

 residents. The authorities shall ensure that the Municipal Solid Waste

 Management Plant/Transfer Station is to be cleaned twice a day and is to be

 done very regularly to avoid mosquitoes breeding in the portion of park. It is

 the duty of the authorities to ensure the park to maintain properly. If the

 park is not maintained, it will be taken as contempt of the orders of this

 Court. http://www.judis.nic.in 17 10. Accordingly, this Writ Petition is dismissed. There shall be

 no order as to costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petition is

 closed.