1. Heard learned counsel for the applicants, learned counsel for the respondent No. 2, learned AGA representing State-respondent No. 1 and perused the record on board. 2. The applicants have invoked the inherent jurisdiction of this Court under Section 482 for quashing the entire proceedings including the summoning order dated 16.01.2023 passed by Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jalaun in proceeding of Complaint Case No.69 of 2022 (Smt. Priyanka Panchal vs. Pushpendra Panchal and others) against the applicant no.1, u/s 498A, 323 I.P.C . and 3/4 D.P. Act , and against the applicant nos.2 to 5, under Section 498-A I.P.C. and Section 3 / 4 D.P. Act, P.S. Kotwali Orai, District Jalaun, pending in the Court of Civil Judge (J.D.)/F.T.C. (C.A.W.), Jalaun at Orai. 3. It is submitted that instant matter is arising out of a matrimonial discord. Having considered the willingness of the parties and to explore the possibility of reconciliation between them, this Court, vide order dated 15.09.2023, has referred this matter before the Mediation and Conciliation Centre of this Court. Both the parties arrived at compromise and reduced the settlement agreement dated 17.05.2024 to writing. The settlement agreement dated 17.05.2024 is quoted herein below :- DATE: 17.05.2024" 4. It is submitted by learned counsel for the applicants that in the above eventuality of amicable settlement took place between the parties, instant application may be allowed and the entire proceedings may be quashed. It is further submitted that both the parties have entered into compromise out of their own volition without any duress and buried the hatchet. There is no grudges between them against each other. To quash the cognizance order as well as criminal proceeding, learned counsel for the applicant has relied upon the following judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court:- (i) B.S.Joshi & Others Vs. State of Haryana & Others; (2003) 4 SCC 675. ( ii) Nikhil Merchant Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation ; (2008) 9 SCC 667. ( iii) Manoj Sharma Vs. State & Others ; (2008) 16 SCC 1. (iv) Gyan Singh Vs. State of Punjab (2012) 10 SCC 303. (v) Narindra Singh & Others Vs. State of Punjab (2014) 6 SCC 466. 5. In a recent judgment passed by a Three Judges' Bench of the Apex Court in the Case of Parbatbhai Aahir alias Parbatbhai Bhimsinhbhai Karmur and others Vs. State of Gujarat and another , reported in AIR 2017 SC 4843, Hon'ble Supreme Court has summarized the ratio of all the cases decided earlier with respect to quashing of F.I.R./charge-sheet/criminal proceeding on the ground of settlement between the parties and expounded the ten categories in which application under Section 482 could be entertained for quashing the F.I.R./charge-sheet/criminal proceeding on the basis of compromise. Para no. 15 of the said judgement summarizing the proposition in this respect is reproduced below :- 6. Learned A.G.A. has no objection, in case, the instant application is decided by this Court on the basis of compromise took place between the parties, which is duly verified by the court concerned. 7. Learned counsel for the opposite party No. 2 has nodded the factum of the compromise entered into between the parties and he has no objection, if the instant application is decided finally on the basis of the said compromise. He also submits that settlement agreement is signed in presence of both the parties, who have voluntarily entered into compromise and opposite party no. 2 does not wants to prosecute the present case against the applicants any more as no dispute remains between the parties. 8. Having considered the settlement agreement dated 17.05.2024 took place between the parties and with the assistance of the aforesaid guidelines, keeping in view the nature of gravity and severity of the offence, which are more particular in private dispute, it is deemed proper that in order to meet the ends of justice, the present proceeding should be quashed. In result, dispute between the parties will put to an end, peace will be resorted and relationship between them will be smooth. No useful purpose would be served to keep the present matter pending inasmuch as both the parties have buried the hatchet and as the time passes, it will be difficult to prove the guilt of the accused. The continuation of criminal proceeding would cause oppression and prejudice. 9. In view of the aforesaid pronouncements of the Hon'ble Apex Court and in the light of the settlement agreement inked between the parties, the present application under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is hereby allowed. The entire criminal proceeding of the aforementioned case is hereby quashed. 10. Let a copy of the order be transmitted to the concerned trial Court for necessary action. Order Date :- 10.7.2025
 
A.N. Mishra