20.03.2002. An amount of Rs.8, 388/- was

 deducted on account of alleged over-drawal.

 Being aggrieved, the petitioner has approached

 this Court by way of the present writ petition. Learned Counsel for the petitioner submitted

 that recovery of excess payment cannot be made

 from the retiral benefits of an employee unless

 such excess payment was made to the concerned 2 employee because of some misrepresentation or

fraud on his part. In support of his submission,

Learned Counsel relied on several decisions of this

court and primarily on three Supreme Court

decisions in the cases of Shyam Babu Verma-vs.-

Union of India, (1994) 3 SCC 521, Syed Abdul

Qadir-vs.-State of Bihar, (2009) 3 SCC 475 and

State of Punjab-vs.-Rafiq Masih, (2014) 8 SCC 883. In paragraph 12 of the last of the said three

judgments, the Hon'ble Apex Court observed as

follows:- Learned Counsel for the State submitted that

the orders passed by the Hon'ble Apex Court in

Shyam Babu Verma (supra) and Syed Abdul Qadir

(supra) were under Article 142 of the Constitution 4 and did not amount to declaration of law under article 141 of the Constitution. According to him,

the law is as declared by the Hon'ble Apex Court

in Chandi Prasad Uniyal-vs.-State of

Uttarakhand, (2012) 8 SCC 417, which is to the

effect that except in few instances pointed out in

Syed Abdul Qadir (supra) and in Col. B. J.

Akkara-vs.-Govt. of India, (2006) 11 SCC 709,

excess payment made due to wrong/irregular pay

fixation can always be recovered. He further

relied on a decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court

dated 29 July, 2016 delivered in Civil Appeal No.

3500 of 2006 (High Court of Punjab & Haryana-

vs.-Jagdev Singh) in support of his submission that

if at the time of taking benefit of a revised higher

pay scale or at the time of applying for pensionary

benefits the concerned employee/officer gives an

undertaking/declaration that he would be liable to

refund any excess payment made to him, he would 5 be bound by such undertaking/declaration. As and

when the excess payment is detected by the

employer-State the same can be recovered from

the concerned employee and the same can be

deducted from the pensionary benefits released in

favour of a superannuating employee if such

excess payment is detected prior to releasing such

benefits. He submitted that in the present case,

at the time of opting for revised pay scale, the

petitioner signed a declaration to the effect that

the payment of the monthly bills and arrear bills

drawn in the revised scale of pay are 'provisional'

and are subject to subsequent adjustment and

that the over-drawn benefits, if any, in this regard

could be recovered forthwith from his salary bill.

He submitted that the petitioner is bound by such

declaration and is not entitled to claim payment of

the amount deducted from the Pension Payment

Order on account of over-drawal. I have considered the rival contentions of the

parties. In Shyam Babu Verma (supra), although the

Hon'ble Apex Court held that the petitioners were

entitled to a lower scale of pay than they actually

enjoyed, yet, since they received a higher scale of

pay due to no fault of theirs, the Hon'ble Apex

Court held that it shall only be just and proper not

to recover any excess amount which had already

been paid to them. In Syed Abdul Qadir (supra),

the Hon'ble Apex Court observed that the relief

against recovery is granted by Courts not because

of any right in the employees, but in equity,

exercising judicial discretion to relieve the

employees from the hardship that will be caused if

recovery is ordered. However in a given case, if it

is proved that the employee had knowledge that

he was receiving payment in excess of what he

was entitled to or in cases where the arrear is 7 deducted or corrected within a short time of

wrong payment, the matter being in the realm of

judicial discretion, Courts may on the facts and

circumstances of any particular case, order for

recovery of the amount paid in excess. In the

facts of that case, the Hon'ble Apex Court found

that the excess amount that had been paid to the

appellant teachers was not because of any

misrepresentation or fraud on their part and the

appellants also had no knowledge that the amount

that was being paid to them was more than what

they were entitled to. Accordingly, the Hon'ble

Apex Court held that no recovery of the amount

that had been paid in excess to the appellant

teachers should be made. In Chandi Prasad Uniyal-vs.-State of

Uttarakhand (supra), at paragraphs 14 and 15 of

the judgment the Hon'ble Apex Court observed as

follows:- In High Court of Punjab & Haryana-vs.-

Jagdev Singh (supra), the Hon'ble Apex Court

observed that if an employee had undertaken to

refund any excess amount paid to him, such excess

payment could be recovered from him. In Col. B. J. Akkara-vs.-Govt. of India,

(2006) 11 SCC 709, the Hon'ble Apex Court held

that it has consistently granted relief against

recovery of excess wrong payment of

emoluments/allowances from an employee if the

excess payment was not made on account of any

misrepresentation or fraud on the part of the

employee or if such excess payment was made by

the employer by applying a wrong principle for 10 calculating the pay/allowance or on the basis of a

particular interpretation of a rule/order which is

subsequently found to be erroneous. Such relief is

granted by Courts not because of any right of the

employees but in equity, in exercise of judicial

discretion to relieve the employee from the

hardship that will be caused if recovery is

implemented. A Government servant, particularly

one in the lower rungs of service would spend

whatever emoluments he receives for the upkeep

of his family. If he receives an excess payment for

a long period, he would spend it, genuinely

believing that he is entitled to it. As any

subsequent action to recover the excess payment

will cause undue hardship, relief is granted in that

behalf. But where the employee was aware that

the payment received was in excess of what was

due or wrongly paid, or where the error is

detected or corrected within a short time of wrong 11 payment, Courts will not grant relief against

recovery. The matter is in the realm of judicial

discretion. Although apparently there seems to be some

conflict in so far as the aforesaid judgments of the

Hon'ble Apex court are concerned, on a careful

analysis and harmonious reading thereof, in fact,

in my opinion, there is no conflict. Thus, Chandi

Prasad Uniyal (supra) and Rafiq Masih (supra) can

be reconciled by reading the two judgments as

laying down the proposition that even without

fraud or misrepresentation on the part of an

employee excess payment made to an employee

can be recovered only up to one year before the

retirement of the employee and not after that. In so far as Jagdev Singh's (supra) case is

concerned, the same is distinguishable on facts. In

that case, the concerned judicial officer availed of

the revised pay scale by furnishing a specific 12 undertaking to the effect that any excess payment

which may be found to have been made will be

refunded to the Government either by adjustment

against future payment due or otherwise.

(emphasis is mine). The judicial officer was

compulsorily retired from service on 12 February,

2003. On 18 February, 2004, a letter for recovery

of excess payment was served on him. In those

facts, the Hon'ble Apex Court upheld the recovery

process and observed that the principle laid down

in Rafiq Masih (supra) that recovery from retired

employees or employees who are due to retire

within one year of the order of recovery, would

not apply. In the present case, the declaration of the

petitioner's husband that Learned Counsel for the

State has relied on is as follows:- The form of declaration clearly means that

even at the highest, recovery of excess payment

could be made by the State from the salary bill of

the petitioner's husband during the tenure of his

service. In my opinion, such a declaration would

not entitle the State to recover any over-drawals

from the pensionary benefits of the petitioner's

husband. Pensionary benefits are paid to a

superannuated person by way of social welfare

measure to enable him to live a life of dignity,

which is now recognized as a fundamental right of

a citizen of India. Retiral benefits are not to be

lightly interfered with. Any right of the employer

to recover from the pensionary benefits of an

employee any excess payment received by the

employee due to no fault, fraud or

misrepresentation on his part is to be strictly 14 construed. Of course, it will be a different thing

altogether if the employee has fraudulently

induced the employer to make the excess

payment. In such a case the employer's right to

recover the excess payment from the pensionary

benefits of the employee cannot be doubted since

fraud unravels everything. But it is not the case

of the State that the petitioner's husband in the

present case has received excess payment by

practising fraud or making misrepresentation nor

that the petitioner's husband was conscious that

he was receiving more than he was entitled to.

Moreover, it is common knowledge that such

declarations are signed by an employee under

compelling circumstances with no real choice in

the matter. As a Learned Judge observed in one

case, the choice is like choosing between the devil

and the deep sea. I also draw support from the

decision of a Division Bench of this Court in the 15 Court of Asitosh Bhattacharya-vs.-The State of

West Bengal, (2015) 2 CLT 339, in which the

Hon'ble Division Bench considered the decisions in

Shyam Babu Verma (supra), Syed Abdul Qadir

(Supra), Chandi Prasad Uniyal (supra) and Rafiq

Masih (supra) and held that no recovery can be

made from a retired employee who is due to retire

within one year from the order of recovery. In view of the aforesaid, no recovery could

be made from the retiral benefits of the

petitioner's husband and the withholding of the

sum of Rs.8,388/- was clearly contrary

to law. The only other question is that whether the

writ petition should be entertained in spite of

delay of about 15 years in approaching this Court.

In a judgement and order dated 6 September,

2010 delivered in MAT 1933 of 2010 a Division

Bench of this Court held that although the 16 petitioner had approached the Court after a lapse

of nine years, no third party right had accrued

because of the delay and it was only the petitioner

who suffered due to non-payment of the withheld

amount on account of alleged over-drawal.

Accordingly the Division Bench set aside the order

of the Learned Single Judge by which the writ

petition had been dismissed only on the ground of

delay. Following the Division Bench judgment of

this Court adverted to above, I hold that it is only

the petitioner's husband who suffered by reason of

the wrongful withholding of the aforesaid sum

from his retiral benefits. Although there has been

a delay of about 15 years in approaching this

Court, the same has not given rise to any third

party right and allowing this writ application is not

going to affect the right of any third party. It may

also be noted that the Hon'ble Apex Court 17 observed in its decision in the case of Union of

India-vs.-Tarsem Singh, (2008) 3 SCC 648 that

relief may be granted to a writ petitioner in spite

of the delay if it does not affect the right of third

parties. In view of the aforesaid, this writ petition

succeeds. The concerned Treasury Officer is

directed to release the amount of Rs.8,388/- to

the petitioner along with interest at the rate of 6

per cent per annum with effect from the date of

issuance of PPO. Such payment is to be made to

the petitioner within a period of 8 weeks from the

date of communication of this order. Since no affidavit-in-opposition has been

invited, the allegations contained in the writ

petition are deemed not to be admitted. WP No. 17373 (W) of 2017 is accordingly

disposed of. There will, however, be no order as 18 to costs. Urgent certified photocopy of this judgment

and order, if applied for, be given to the parties

upon compliance of necessary formalities. ( Arijit Banerjee, J. )