1. The appellant filed the above mentioned 18 identical appeals against the
CPIOs of 18 nationalized Banks mentioned above with respect to his 18 identical
RTI applications. All these appeals are being clubbed together for hearing and
disposal to avoid multiplicity of proceedings. 2. The appellant filed 18 identical applications under the Right to Information
Act, 2005 (RTI Act ) before the Central Public Information Officers (CPIOs), Canara Page 2 of 17 Bank, P&SB, Allahabad Bank, OBC, Andhra Bank, Bank of Maharashtra, Dena
Bank, PNB, UCO Bank, IOB, Bank of India, Syndicate Bank, Indian Bank, United
Bank, Vijaya Bank, Central Bank, Union Bank, Bank of Baroda seeking information
on six points, pertaining to NPA accounts, including, inter-alia (i) total number of
NPA accounts of the bank as on 30th June, 2015, 30th September, 2015, 31st
December, 2015, 31st March, 2016 and 30th June, 2016, (ii) names/titles of the NPA
accounts of the bank wherein the total amount is Rs.100 crores and above totaling
all types of advances such as CD, CC Bill Purchase, Clean Loan, Personal Loan,
Secured Loan, Export Loan, Letter of Credit, Transport Loan, Housing Loan and
any type of loan as on 30th June, 2016, and (iii) names of the owners/M.Ds/Groups
of the above mentioned accounts. 3. The appellant filed a second appeal before the Commission on the grounds
that the information sought on point nos. 2 to 6 of his RTI application has been
wrongly denied by the CPIO under Sections 8(1)(d) , (e) and (j) of the RTI Act .
Moreover, the FAA has mechanically upheld the decision of the CPIO. The appellant
stated that nowhere has the Apex Court, in its judgment in CBSE vs Aditya
Bandopadhyay , held that a relationship between a Banker and its customer is
fiduciary in nature. Further, every citizen has the right to know the names of the
NPA accounts when, the details of such accounts is itself made public by the Banks
at the time of recovery of loans. The appellant requested the Commission to direct
the CPIO to provide the information sought by him and to impose appropriate
penalty on the erring CPIO for not providing the information. Hearing: 4. The appellant, Shri Amitava Choudhury and his representative Shri Sandipan
Khan were present in person. The respondents, Shri Somesh Nagabhushan, Sr.
Manager (Law), Dena Bank, Dena Corporate Centre, Mumbai, Shri Shashi Kumar,
AGM, Bank of India, HO Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai, Shri Kunal Grover,
Officer, Bank of Baroda, Baroda Corporate Centre, Mumbai, Shri K.C. Choudhary,
AGM, Union Bank, Nariman Point, Mumbai, Shri R.S. Raman, AGM, Central Bank
of India, Central Office, Mumbai, Shri Deepak Senthil, Sr. Manager (Law), Indian
Bank, Corporate Office, Royapettah, Chennai, Shri Muthugoanasekar, Chief
Manager, Indian Overseas Bank, Central Office, Anna Salai, Chennai, Shri Omeill
Shroff, Chief Manager, UCO Bank, HO BTM Sarani, Kolkata, Shri Jagan Kovil
Mani, AGM (Law), United Bank, HO Kolkata, Shri Ashu Kumar, Chief Manager,
Allahabad Bank, HO Kolkata, Ms. Ankita Kumari, Asstt. Manager (Legal), Andhra
Bank, HO Hyderabad, Shri Hari P.V., Divisional Manager, Canara Bank, HO, J C
Road, Bengaluru, Shri P. Maheshwara Rao, DGM, Syndicate Bank, Corporate
Office, Bengaluru and Shri Sivananda Nanderkar, Chief Manager (Law), Vijaya
Bank, HO Bengaluru attended the hearing through video-conferencing. The
respondents, Shri S.K. Sharma and Shri Y.P.S. Rajput, AGM, Punjab National Bank,
Corporate Office, Dwarka, New Delhi, Shri Ashok Kr. Mishra, DGM, Oriental Bank
of Commerce, HO Gurgaon, Haryana and Shri Arun Uikey, Chief Manager, Punjab
& Sind Bank, HO New Delhi were present in person. The CPIO, Bank of
Maharashtra, HO Pune was not present despite notice. 5. The appellant submitted that the respondent banks have wrongly denied the
information sought by him on points 2 to 6 of his RTI application pertaining to the Page 4 of 17 names/titles of the NPA accounts of the bank wherein the total amount is Rs.100
crores and above, names of the owners/MD/Group of the above said accounts, copies
of documents relating to the action taken by the Banks for recovery of the amount
outstanding, under Sections 8(1)(d) , (e) and (j) of the RTI Act . The appellant,
however, admitted that the information sought on point no. 1 has been provided to
him by the Banks on total no. of NPA accounts. Further, some of the bank had also
provided the total amount outstanding for the period of 2015-16. Moreover, with
respect to point no. 2 of the RTI application, only Dena Bank, Union Bank and PNB
have provided part information regarding the total number of NPA accounts where
the amount outstanding is Rs. 100 crores and above and the total amount outstanding
in respect of such accounts. The appellant contended that there is no question of
commercial confidence involved in the NPA accounts as the banks are performing a
public function and where public money is involved, the Banks should be more
proactive in disclosing the details of defaulters. Moreover, the fiduciary relationship
ceases to exist once the trust/faith is broken by the borrower/customer. The appellant
cited Section 8(2) of the RTI Act which is an overriding provision that clearly states
that "(2) Notwithstanding anything in the Official Secrets Act, 1923 nor any of the
exemptions permissible in accordance with sub-section (1), a public authority may
allow access to information, if public interest in disclosure outweighs the harm to
the protected interests." Hence, the exemptions claimed by the respondent banks are
not absolute but relative. Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its judgment dated
09.08.2011 in Central Board of Secondary Education vs. Aditya Bandopadhyay
[CIVIL APPEAL NO. 6454 OF 2011], in Para 22 of the said judgment nowhere
mentioned that the relationship between the bank and its customer is fiduciary in
nature. The appellant further submitted that the Proviso to Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Page 5 of 17 Act which states that ".... the information which cannot be denied to the Parliament
or a State Legislature shall not be denied to any person" is squarely applicable to
the present case. Hence, the stand taken by the Banks that they cannot share the NPA
account details of third parties as it also qualifies as personal information of the latter
does not hold water when once the details are in public domain or a suit is filed by
the Bank in respect of the NPA accounts against the defaulters. The appellant also
cited the Supreme Court judgment dated 16.12.2015 in Reserve Bank of India Vs.
Jayantilal N. Mistry [Transferred case (Civil) No. 91 of 2015], P.P. Kappor vs
Reserve Bank of India (Appeal No. CIC/SM/A/2011/0001376/SG, dated
15.11.2011) in support of his submissions wherein it was observed that there is larger
public interest involved when there is default in repayment of loans by the borrowers
and the Bank is bound to disclose the details in this regard. The appellant submitted
that the NPA amount provided by Indian Bank and Bank of India on point no. 1 of
the RTI application does not match with the figures available in public domain. 6. The respondents from Dena Bank, with respect to point no. 1 of the RTI
application, submitted that the CPIO has provided the Gross NPA amount as
declared and published in the quarterly financial results of the Bank. The respondent
from Indian Bank informed that the FAA had specifically stated in his order dated
03.02.2017 that the figures given in PIO's reply is Gross NPA level, whereas, the
figures in the quarterly result of financials statement are 'Gross NPA net of some
provided accounts'. The respondents submitted that the account maintained by the
Bank's customers includes personal, financial and commercial details of such
customers. Hence, the disclosure of such information would harm the competitive
position of the third party. Moreover, not all NPAs can be categorized as willful Page 6 of 17 default or involving fraud and there may be cases where non-repayment of loan is
because of certain factors beyond the control of the borrower such as, business
failure. Therefore, disclosure of the information concerning defaulters could result
in making public even those cases, where the Bank is yet to conclude that the
defaulter is a willful defaulter, or a suit is filed in DRT or action is taken under the SARFAESI Act . The respondent further submitted that disclosing the details of NPA
accounts of its borrowers may also harm the business interests of the bank in cases
where action for recovery of outstanding dues is yet to be initiated by the Bank.
Further, such information, which is provided by the customer in trust, is held by the
Bank in a fiduciary capacity and confidence that the same shall not be disclosed to
a third party. The respondent explained that merely because the account has become
NPA, it does not end the fiduciary relationship of the Bank with its customer.
Moreover, it also relates to the personal information of third parties, the disclosure
of which has no relationship to any public interest and would cause an unwarranted
invasion of the privacy of the third parties. Hence, the disclosure of the information
sought is exempted under Section 8(1)(d) , (e) and (j) of the RTI Act . The appellant
has also not established involvement of larger public interest in the matter that
warrants disclosure of the information sought by him on point nos. 2 to 6 of the RTI
application. The respondent, however, admitted that as per the RBI's circular dated
02.07.2012 (RBI/2012-13/43 DBOD No. CID.BC. 10/20.16.003/2012-13) on
Willful Defaulters, the Banks submit the list of suit-filed accounts of willful
defaulters to credit information companies, (i) Experian Credit Information
Company of India Private Limited, (ii) Equifax Credit Information Services Private
Limited, (iii) High Mark Credit Information Services Private Limited, and (iv)
TransUnion CIBIL Limited [formerly, Credit Information Bureau (India) Limited], Page 7 of 17 as at end-March, June, September and December every year. The companies have
been issued a Certificate of Registration by RBI in terms of Section 5 of the Credit
Information Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005. Hence, the data regarding willful
defaulters is already available in public domain. With respect to sharing of
information/details concerning defaulters/NPA accounts with the Parliament, the
respondent stated that the Banks do not disclose the names of the individual
defaulters to the Parliament but, they only provide the account numbers and NPA
amount. Moreover, there is no record available of having shared the names of the
defaulters with the Parliament in the past. The respondent also cited the order of the
Hon. Supreme Court in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 573 of 2003 (Centre for Public
Interest vs. Housing and Urban Development ) dated 16.02.2016, wherein the Apex
Court has directed the RBI to file the information regarding defaulters of payments
of amounts more than Rs. 500 crores in a sealed cover. Hence, the names of the
defaulters and details of action taken against them cannot be disclosed as the matter
is still under consideration before the Apex Court. Decision: The same cannot be read as exhaustive. Moreover, in its judgment dated 02.09.2009
in CPIO, Supreme Court of India, New Delhi vs. Subhash Chandra Agarwal & Anr.
[W.P. No. 288/200], the High Court of Delhi made the following observations:- 9. The Commission further observes that the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the
case of Rekha Chopra Vs. State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur [W.P.(C ) 5478/2014,
judgment dated 27.08.2014] specifically discussed the issue whether a bank is
obliged to disclose information pertaining to its customers in response to an
application made under the RTI Act . The High Court observed: 10. Therefore, what emerges from the aforesaid is that the information pertaining
to the account of a customer/borrower is held by the Bank in trust and confidence on
behalf of the former and the Bank is bound to maintain secrecy/confidentiality in
case personal information of the account holder is sought by a third party. Hence,
the information sought being held in a fiduciary capacity by the Bank is exempt form
disclosure under Section 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act. 11. The appellant had raised the issue that 'information which cannot be denied
to the Parliament cannot be denied to him' with reference to the proviso of Section Page 10 of 17 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act, 2005 . This issue had been elaborately clarified by the Hon'ble
Delhi High Court in its decision dated 30.11.2009 in the matter of Union of India
Thr. Director Vs. Central Information Commission & Ors. [Writ Petition (Civil) No. 8396 of 2009 held: 12. With respect to disclosure of NPA details of individual borrowers/defaulters,
the Commission in another matter in Shankar Gupta Vs. CPIO, Bank of Baroda,
Allahabad (File No. SH/A/2016/000271) dated 10.03.2017 (where the information
of similar nature was sought) the Commission has held as under: 13. The Commission further observes that the Hon. Supreme Court in Writ
Petition (Civil) No. 573 of 2003 (Centre for Public Interest vs. Housing and Urban
Development ) dated 16.02.2016, held that:- 14. Further, a two-member Bench of the Commission, in a similar matter
CIC/VS/A/2013/001488 and CIC/VS/A/2013/001805 decided on 11.05.2017, had
observed that since a similar issue regarding the disclosure of list of defaulters is Page 12 of 17 pending adjudication before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the above-said matter of
Centre for Public Interest Litigation (supra), it would be judicious to await the final
outcome from the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 15. In the above context, the Commission takes note of RBI Circular DBOD No.
BC/CIS/47/20.16.002/94 dated 23.04.1994 on dissemination of information
concerning borrowal accounts of banks and Financial institutions in cases of willful
defaults and suit filed accounts. The above said circular identifies the types of
accounts about which information is to be collected in the category of defaulters and
does not cover any and every loan account in which repayment may have become
overdue. In view of this, the Commission directs the respondent banks to provide
the list/names of its willful defaulters as submitted to the credit information
companies along with the number of NPA accounts wherein the total outstanding
amount is Rs.100 crores and above and the total consolidated outstanding amount of
such accounts, as on 30.06.2016, to the appellant within a period of four weeks from
the date of receipt of a copy of this order under intimation to this Commission. 16. The Commission further takes a serious view of the absence of the CPIO,
Bank of Maharashtra, despite notice. The Commission directs Shri Vivek Ghate,
CPIO, Bank of Maharashtra, HO Pune to submit a written statement before the
Commission, explaining his absence, along with the comments of the First Appellate
Authority, before 16.08.2018 both by post and through e-mail at [email protected] . 17. With the above observations, all the 18 appeals are disposed of. 18. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Corporate Office, RTI Cell, 2nd Floor, East Wing (A),
 Plot No. 4, Sector-10, Dwarka,
 New Delhi-110075. 9. The Central Public Information Officer (CPIO),
 UCO Bank,
 Customer Service & Customer Complaints Cell,
 Strategic Planning Department,
 10, BTM Sarani, Kolkata-700001. 10. The Central Public Information Officer (CPIO),
 Indian Overseas Bank,
 RTI Cell, Law Department,
 Central Office, P.B. No. 3765, 763, Anna Salai,
 Chennai-600 002. 11. The Central Public Information Officer (CPIO),
 Bank of India,
 Head Office, Star House, 3rd Floor,
 C-5, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra East,
 Mumbai-400 051. 12. The Central Public Information Officer (CPIO),
 Syndicate Bank,
 Corporate Office,
 Syndicate Bank Building, 2nd Cross, Gandhinagar,
 Bengaluru-560009. 13. The Central Public Information Officer (CPIO),
 Indian Bank,
 Corporate Office, Customer Service Cell,
 RTI Desk, 254-260, Avvai Shanmugam Salai,
 Royapettah, Chennai-600 014 14. The Central Public Information Officer (CPIO),
 United Bank of India,
 Hemanta Basu Sarani, Kolkata-700001. 15. The Central Public Information Officer (CPIO),
 Vijaya Bank,
 Head Office,
 Credit Department, Legal Section,
 41/ 2 , M.G. Road, Bengaluru-560001. 16. The Central Public Information Officer (CPIO),
 Central Bank of India,
 Central Office,
 Chander Mukhi, Nariman Point,
 Mumbai-400021. 17. The Central Public Information Officer (CPIO),
 Union Bank,
 O/o The CPIO, Union Bank Bhawan,
 239, Vidhan Bhawan Marg, Nariman Point,
 Mumbai-400021. 18. The Central Public Information Officer (CPIO),
 Bank of Baroda,
 Baroda Corporate Centre,
 C-26, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex,
 Bandra East, Mumbai-400 051 19. Shri Amitava Choudhury, Page 17 of 17