V.K. Bali, C.J. The challenge posed by the appellants who were the petitioners in the

original lis to notifications issued by the Government of Kerala dated 13.1.2005

and 22.4.2005 issued in exercise of the power under Section 5 of the Lotteries

(Regulation) Act, 1998 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act 17 of 1998") failed.

Three Writ Petitions filed for the said purpose bearing Nos.Nos.14495, 16063

and 19582 of 2005 were dismissed by the learned Single Judge of this Court by

order dated 27th July, 2005. The appellants in reiterating the challenge to the

impugned notifications have thus called in question the impugned judgment

recorded by the learned Single Judge in the present appeals which need to be

disposed of by a common order. 2. By notification dated 13.01.2005 the Government of Kerala in exercise

of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the Act 17 of 1998 prohibited the sale of

all Computerised and Online lottery tickets marketed and operated through

vending machines, terminals, electronic machines and tickets sold through

Internet in Kerala with immediate effect and declared that Kerala shall be a free


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 2 - zone from Online and Internet lotteries. The notification dated 13th January,

 2005, the subject matter of challenge reads as follows: A perusal of the notification reproduced above would manifest that what was

 prohibited was sale of computerised and online lottery tickets and it is with

 regard to such type of lottery that Kerala was declared to be the free zone. In

 short, prohibition pertained to online and internet lotteries. In a matter of less

 than a fortnight, to be precise on 27th January, 2005, the Government of Kerala

 came up with yet another notification, whereby the sale of tickets of all lotteries

 organized, conducted or promoted by every other state government including

 lotteries organized, conducted or promoted by the Government of Kerala in the

 State of Kerala were prohibited. The State of Kerala was declared to be

 completely lottery free zone. The relevant part of the notification dated 27th

 January, 2005 which is not under challenge reads as follows: Almost on heels of notification dated 27th January, 2005 followed yet another

 notification dated 22nd April, 2005 by virtue of which the Government of Kerala

 lifted the prohibition partially and permitted the sale of paper lotteries organised,

 conducted or promoted by every State Government including the State of

 Kerala. Government, however, confirmed its stand with regard to prohibition of

 sale of computerised and online lottery tickets organized, conducted or promoted

 by every State Government, thus making the State of Kerala to be a lottery free

 zone, in so far as online, internet and computerised lotteries were concerned.

 This notification too is under challenge. The relevant part of the notification

 dated 22nd April, 2005 reads as follows: prohibition imposed on the sale of computerized and online lottery
 tickets organized, conducted or promoted by every State
 Government shall continue to remain in force and the territory of
 the State of Kerala shall be on-line, internet and computerized
 lotteries free zone". The frontal attack in challenge to the two notifications dated 13th January, 2005

 and 22nd April 2005 is based on lack of legislative competence of the State of

 Kerala to regulate lotteries of other States, which according to the stand taken by

 the petitioners' counsel is in the sole domain of Parliament under Entry 40 of List

 I of the Constitution of India. The only exception that may clothe the state with

 the power to enact on a subject matter of lotteries would be where the State may

 choose to ban sale of lotteries in the State and make it a completely lottery free

 zone, as that is how, it is urged that the Honourable Supreme Court instead of

 striking down Section 5 of Act 17 of 1998 has read it down. It is in that context,

 it is urged, that whereas there cannot be any exception to the notification dated

 27th January, 2005 prohibiting any kind of lottery in the State of Kerala, the

 prohibition of sale of online, internet and computerised lotteries alone will be

 impermissible, wholly illegal and unconstitutional. Before, however, we may deal

 with the contentions of the learned counsel for the petitioners on the point

 mentioned above and other points as have been pressed into service in their

 endeavour for quashing the notifications dated 13th January, 2005 and 22nd


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 5 - April, 2005, it will be appropriate to extract the resume of the facts, even though,

 in brevity. 3. Writ Petition (C) No.14495 of 2005 has been filed by State of Sikkim

 as also a company registered under the Companies Act , stated to be the

 marketing agent of the State of Sikkim and a registered partnership firm cum

 distributor of the company. W.P.(C) No.19582 of 2005 has been filed by the

 Association of Retailers which is stated to have several hundred retailers as its

 members. They too have been adversely affected in their business, trade and

 occupation which it is stated to have come to an abrupt end. W.P.(C) No.16063

 of 2005 has been filed by 20 retail outlet dealers who are said to have lost their

 livelihood on account of the aforesaid notifications as their trade, business and

 occupation has come to an abrupt end. 4. The facts of Writ Petition No.14495 of 2005 would reveal that the State

 of Sikkim in its trading capacity has been organising, conducting and promoting

 online lotteries in accordance with the provisions of Act 17 of 1998 and lottery

 tickets have been sold in various lottery playing States in India including State of

 Kerala. The State of Sikkim, it is pleaded, substantially depends on the revenue

 by sale of lottery tickets. It is a north eastern State with no avenues of

 industrialisation. It is the case of the petitioners that they have started the

 business of online lottery in the State of Kerala in the year 2003. Online lottery is


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 6 - a tamper proof lottery, which has been designed using the aid of modern

 technology that eliminates all the ills of paper lottery and has greater

 transparency and is universally recognised as a tamper proof and safe method

 of conducting lotteries Modernisation led to spurt of computerisation, satellite

 and internet connectivity which bear a great impact on every aspect of life, made

 things easier and faster and brought in more transparency. Thus began lottery

 in another form, popularly called "online lottery". This online lottery, it is further

 the case of the petitioners, is organised, conducted and promoted by States

 respectively under the Act 17 of 1998, as covered under the definition of term

 contained in the said Act and is a scheme like any other paper lottery. The

 difference in the lotteries of this form is that `online' is free from any possibility of

 any duplication, tamper etc. and is totally transparent. The online lottery involves

 installation of a Central Server through a satellite and all this involves huge

 expenses running into hundreds of crores. In this online lottery form, there are

 no pre-printed tickets as such. A person interested to purchase a ticket of online

 lottery comes to the terminal, fills a play-slip with numbers selected by him and

 hands it over to the person manning the terminal. This play-slip is put into the

 terminal and numbers selected by the player are transmitted to the central

 server, which registers the said numbers. A person may not like to select any

 numbers and may play a lucky dip in which case the computer makes random


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 7 - generation of numbers itself and transmits them to the Central server, which

 registers the said numbers. In either case, after the central server has registered

 the numbers, it generates a ticket and commands the terminal, which acts like a

 fax on command and delivers the ticket, which is on an imported thermal paper.

 The ticket besides containing these numbers contains various codes, details as

 also bar codes, which ensures against any possibility of any duplication etc.. The

 game is made more interesting and entertaining since the player has the option

 to choose numbers for himself. Like paper lottery, in this case also, various

 tickets can be printed and sold as such, however, the same may not sell at all

 because the player does not like to loose the charm of selecting the numbers

 himself. However, whatever be the position, all the details regarding the number

 of tickets sold, their respective playing numbers, the number to tickets sold from

 each terminal etc. are all available in the central server. The generation of

 tickets for any particular scheme closes 30 minutes before the holding of the

 draw and no retain terminal can generate a ticket for such draw after such

 closing and at the time of draw all the details are readily available to the

 authorities immediately before the draw. The draw is held by the respective

 States themselves through a tamper free machine and is telecast from the Zee

 television network and watched by the public at large. Considering the

 advantages of online lotteries, the States simultaneously with their lotteries in


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 8 - paper form, also connected the online lottery as well and the same became more

 popular with the playing public on account of greater confidence, transparency

 and security. In order to carry on its said business occupation, petitioners

 Nos.2 and 3 have installed its electronic/computer terminals at various outlets,

 which are in-turn connected to its central computer system under the strict

 monitoring, control and supervision of the State of Sikkim. Each of these outlets

 is manned through a retailer appointed by the said petitioner. In effect, all these

 outlets are branches and integral part of Petitioner No.2. The terminals without

 the central server are an article of no utility. Petitioners 1 and 2 are selling the

 tickets of the online lotteries in various States including the State of Kerala. As

 of today, petitioners have installed 927 terminals in the entire State of Kerala and

 a huge amount of money has been spent for the set up and a number of families

 are being fed from the earnings of the same. 5. The State of Kerala issued the Kerala Lotteries and Online Lotteries

 Regulation Rules, 2003. By virtue of Rule 24 thereof, the State of Kerala

 attempted to regulate the lotteries of other States by seeking to look into the

 alleged violation of Section 4 of the Act which is in the exclusive domain of the

 Central Government. The State of Kerala assumed to itself the right to prohibit

 the lotteries of other States and the sale of their tickets in the State while

 continued to sell its own lotteries. Pursuant to the formulation of the rules


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 9 - aforesaid, the State issued a public notice unilaterally holding the lotteries of all

 other States as illegal and started taking action against the retail outlets including

 those of the petitioners in an indiscriminate manner. Rule 24(3) of the aforesaid

 Rules envisages that before a fellow State desired to sell the tickets of its own

 lotteries in the State of Kerala, it should obtain permission from Secretary

 (Taxes) of the State of Kerala, whereas, Rule 24(10) provides for suspension of

 the sale of lottery tickets of other States by the State of Kerala. It is the case of

 the petitioners that the said rule was ex-facie contrary to the Scheme of the Act

 and militated against the exclusive power of the Central Government under Section 6 of Act 17 of 1998 as also the judgment of the Supreme Court in the

 case of B.R.Enterprises v. State of U.P. (1999) 9 SCC 700. A number of

 petitions were filed before this Court challenging the same. Petitioner No.2 also

 filed Writ Petition bearing No.35368 of 2003.This court vide order dated

 17.11.2003 dismissed the petitions thus restraining the petitioners of the said

 case including petitioner No.2 herein to file writ appeals. Vide a detailed order

 dated 19th December, 2003, a Division Bench of this Court passed an interim

 order and stayed the operation of Rule 24(3) and 24(10) of the aforesaid Rules

 and allowed the petitioners to commence the sale of its lotteries. The Division

 Bench also permitted the respondent State of Kerala to approach the Central

 Government under Section 6 of the Act 17 of 1998 in case the State of Kerala


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 10 - felt that lotteries of any of the other State/s was in violation of the provisions of

 the said Act. In terms of the interim order referred to above , the respondent

 State of Kerala, filed a complaint dated 12.01.2004 before the Central

 Government under Section 6 of the Act raising various grounds against the

 lotteries of all the other States. Petitioner No.1 filed its comments thereto and

 the matter is pending decision before the Central Government. It is further the

 case of the petitioners that vide interim orders referred to above , the Division

 Bench after an elaborate discussion prima facie held the impugned rules to be

 ultra vires. Petitioners thereupon commenced the sale of their lotteries.

 However, vide judgment dated 28th April, 2004, the Division Bench dismissed

 the Writ Appeals taking a view contrary to the one taken by the learned Single

 Judge and contrary to the one prima facie taken, even though, in the interim

 order dated 19.12.2003 by Division Bench. Immediately on the pronouncement

 of the said judgment , the petitioners stopped the sale of lotteries tickets in the

 State of Kerala. Against the said judgment dated 28th April, 2004 a Special

 Leave Petition was filed before the Honourable Supreme Court and vide order

 dated 7th May, 2005 (annexed as Ext.P2) special leave was granted by the

 Supreme Court. Thereafter vide orders dated 17.05.2005, the Honourable

 Supreme Court ordered that interim order passed by the High Court dated

 19.12.2003 would continue to operate. Pursuant to the order aforesaid, the


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 11 - petitioners commenced their sale of lottery tickets. A number of litigations came

 into being on account of the State of Kerala not permitting the petitioners to carry

 on their business of sale of lotteries despite the interim orders passed by the

 Supreme Court as mentioned above. There would be no need to give the details

 of such litigation. However, it is when the litigation referred to above was

 pending before the Honourable Supreme Court that the impugned notifications

 were issued. 6. The cause of the petititioners has been opposed by respondents 1 and

 2 and in the counter affidavit filed in contesting the petition, it has inter alia been

 pleaded that in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the Lotteries

 (Regulation) Act, 1998 and in partial modification of the notification issued earlier

 declaring Kerala a lottery free zone State, the Government have lifted the

 prohibition partially by permitting the sale of paper lotteries provided that the

 prohibition imposed on the sale of computerised and online lotteries shall remain

 in force and the territory of the Kerala State shall be online, internet and

 computerised lottery free zone. The legislative competence in respect of State

 run lotteries vests exclusively with the Centre except where a State is lottery free

 State and that only the Central Government will have the power to deal with the

 same. The notification dated 22.04.2005 was issued by the State on the ground

 that the State of Kerala is an online lottery free zone. The State of Kerala is of


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 12 - the view that online lottery and conventional paper lotteries are to be dealt

 separately and are entirely different in every aspects by the nature and features

 inherent in them. It is then pleaded that the lotteries running in the name of other

 States violate most of the provisions of the Lotteries (Regulation) Act, 1998 and

 as such they no longer remain to be State lotteries. The State of Kerala has

 banned the sale of online/internet lotteries in the State of Kerala in exercise of

 the powers conferred under Section 5 of the Act, 1998. As per Section 5 of the

 Act, a State Government may within the State prohibit the sale of tickets of a

 lottery organised, conducted or promoted by every other State. The State of

 Kerala is of the view that online lottery does not characterise the features of a

 lottery as defined by the Act of 1998. In fact, the so-called online lottery is not a

 lottery as it is a widespread network using internet and cheating the public in a

 massive way in the absence of a proper regulatory system of the same

 standards. The online companies are merely `gaming', but not conducting any

 lottery as per the guidelines issued under the Act. It is further pleaded that

 though it is claimed that online lotteries are universally recognised as tamper

 proof lotteries, in experience it is felt that the so-called online lotteries were

 cheating the massive gullible public by misusing the advancement of information

 technology in the field of economy. The Government of Kerala has detected and

 established before the Union Government of India that online lotteries organised


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 13 - by the petitioner State are blatantly violating the provisions of Section 4 of the

 Act, 1998. The Central Act was enacted by the Parliament on 7.7.1998. At the

 time of formulating the Act, only conventional paper lottery was being conducted

 in the country. No online lottery was existing at the time of enactment of the Act.

 The Central Act did not envisage or take into account the online lotteries in the

 definition clause while stipulating conditions under Section 4 of the Act for

 organising, conducting or promoting a lottery by a State Government. The

 conditions stipulated therein are only intended to cover the conduct of paper

 lotteries. Online lottery is running with sophisticated technology, which involves

 installation of a Central Server, various terminals which are connected to the

 Central Server through a Satellite and all this is involving huge expenses running

 into hundreds of crores of rupees. This leads to a possible massive cyber

 cheating to incur the hundreds of crores of rupees invested by them, especially

 in a situation when there is no effective monitoring under the provisions of the

 Act, 1998, which had been enacted for the regulation of conventional paper

 lotteries. The online lottery can no longer be considered as lottery in its full sense

 of the term. The Government of Kerala has detected the flagrant violations and

 fraud inherent in the online lotteries and the illegal activity run in the name of the

 petitioner directly affects more than 15 lakhs people of Kerala who are deceived

 and are continuously cheated on a minute to minute basis. The ill effects of


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 14 - these lotteries had assumed major dimensions in the State. The newspaper

 reports, petitions from the public and reports from the police reveal the

 magnitude of these ill effects, which include suicides, divorces, starvation and

 murders. This created more hardship to the respondent-State. As per the case

 set up by the petitioner, around 1961 terminals have been installed throughout

 the State of Karnataka investing a huge amount of money and a number of

 families are being fed from the earnings of the same. The Government of

 Karnataka imposed a total ban on all sort of computerised and online lottery

 tickets marketed in the State with effect from 24.7.2004. It is then pleaded that

 by the emergence of the so-called `online' lotteries the very objectives of the

 Act, 1998 was defeated and these online lotteries, running in the realm of

 gambling with no control by the concerned State Governments, gained upper

 hand. The violations in terms of the Act, 1998 in the case of Meghalaya, Sikkim

 and Nagaland State lotteries have already been furnished to the Union

 Government of India on 12.1.2004 and 23.8.2004, some of which are as follows:- W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 15 - ) The draws are conducted in such a manner that the
 transparency and credibility of the draw process is not at all
 established. According to Meghalaya rules, the presence of one
 judge shall form the quorum. (d) The draws are conducted daily in a severe gambling fashion
 and in violation of Section 4(h) and prizes are offered on the basis of
 a single digit violating Section 4(a) of the Act. (e) There are clear similarities in the name of different lotteries
 and they follow the same prize pattern, obviously making an attempt
 to circumvent Section 4(h) . It is then pleaded that in practice, the so-called online lotteries mislead the

 general public by its mesmeric gambling instinct inherent in it. People are

 attracted to the modern technology used in these lotteries and the instantaneous

 nature of it. They spend all their time in front of the online outlets and spoil all

 their money. They are being trapped by the simple prizes they get and they

 invest the remaining part of their money in a hope to get more and more big

 prizes. This is a continuous process starting from early in the morning and

 extends to late in the night. There appears to be no draw break. The lotteries

 conducted by these online companies have draws in every 15 minutes.

 Technically they call it `weekly lotteries' in order to circumvent the objectives of

 the Act, but in result they are ridiculously setting aside the spirit of the Act. As a

 technical argument, each lottery have only one draw in a week. The draw of one


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 16 - lottery repeats only in the next week. But, the tactics followed by these States is

 that they are conducting more than 100 lotteries with very strange names and by

 assigning pseudonyms. The online lotteries running in Kerala were in flagrant

 violation of the provisions of the Act and this fact was detected by the State of

 Kerala. The State of Kerala has made known this fact to the Union Government

 of India twice. The findings of the Government of Kerala revealed that the other

 States, on whose behalf the lotteries are running in Kerala, have least control

 over them and major source of income from these gambling type of lotteries

 were siphoned by the so-called middlemen who acts in the name `Sole selling

 agents'. After the Government of Kerala has revealed these facts, the States of

 Karnataka and Arunachal Pradesh have stopped the sale of online lotteries as

 they have admitted the violations pointed out by the State of Kerala. Online

 lotteries conducted under the name of other State Governments, circumventing

 the provisions of the Act are also conducting single digit lotteries through

 dubious methods adopted by their distributors and agents. There are cases

 detected, wherein some lotteries except one digit all other digits will be pre-fixed

 and the buyer has to choose only a single digit. In some other cases one digit of

 two digit number or of three digit number will be changing continuously, but in a

 pre-determined cyclic manner, which shows that the draw is held only for one

 digit. It was detected from the lottery terminals that the tickets of State of


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 17 - Meghalaya and Nagaland are being printed one after another from the same

 terminal, from the same pool in an unbroken manner. Several tickets without the

 imprint and logo of other State Governments and not even without signature of

 the authorised officer of those States have been found being sold in the State of

 Kerala. Standard set of rules are printed on the reverse side of the stationery

 and tickets of more than one State are being printed on the same material, by

 the same terminal in unbroken strips. The proceeds of the sale of online lotteries

 are rather shared by the distributors and agents without crediting in the public

 account of the respective States, in violation of the provisions of the Act. The

 other State Governments are not conducting the draws of the lotteries, but the

 said right is given away to the sole distributors. The details of unclaimed money

 are not brought to the knowledge of the other State Governments, whereas the

 unclaimed prize money is being appropriated by the distributors and agents. The

 place of draw is not at all located within the other States, whereas the same is

 being conducted according to the convenience of the distributors. The lottery

 distributors and agents of other State Governments are resorting to such

 unscrupulous methods and conducting online lotteries in every 15 minutes from

 the lottery terminals. The Lottery Department of the State had detected the

 draws being conducted in lottery outlets for more than 49 draws in a day. The

 online lotteries are being conducted on the banner of other State Governments


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 18 - in total violation of the provisions of the Central Act. The violations of conditions

 stipulated in Section 4 of the Act of 1998 while conducting lotteries were brought

 to the notice of the Central Government by letters dated 12.1.2004 and

 23.8.2004. By Exhibit P10 notification issued in exercise of the powers conferred

 on the respondent-State and sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 12 of Act, 1998,

 amendments were made to the Kerala Lotteries and Online Lotteries

 (Regulation) Rules, 2003. The State Government, it is pleaded, is fully

 empowered to make Rules in view of the provisions contained in the Act. After

 Exhibit P10 notification dated 13.1.2005, the State Government took a policy

 decision to prohibit all types of lotteries organised, conducted or promoted by

 every other State Governments including the lotteries organised, conducted or

 promoted by the State of Kerala and declared the State as a lottery free zone.

 The Government has subsequently convinced themselves that the total ban

 imposed on the sale of all types of lotteries affected a substantial number of

 population of the State of Kerala who were engaged in the sale of paper lottery

 tickets. Most of them were physically disabled and incapable of doing any other

 work. A large number of people were making out a living by selling lottery tickets.

 The Government was bound to protect them. Considering all the ground realities,

 Government took a policy decision to reintroduce the conduct and sale of Kerala

 Government paper lotteries. The Government has issued Rules regulating the


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 19 - conduct and sale of Kerala Government paper lotteries. Accordingly, the Kerala

 Paper Lotteries (Regulation) Rules, 2005 was introduced. At the very same, the

 Government was aware of the gravity and pernicious effect of the sale of online

 lottery tickets on the people, especially those belonging to the lowest strata of

 the society. Government felt that online lottery is a social evil and that it led to

 penury and desperation of the said population. 7. The irregularities committed in the conduct of lotteries by the Sikkim

 Government which were brought to the notice of the Central Government by the

 State of Kerala as contained in Exhibit R1(c) and R1(d) are as follows:- c. In Thunder Ball, the last prize amount of Rs.20/- is won
 when one main number and Thunder Ball (fixed) are matched. It is
 obvious that, since the probability of winning is more than 1 out of
 10, this is a single digit lottery specifically prohibited under Section
 4(a) of the Lotteries Regulation Act." Ext.R1(d)
 "SIKKIM

 The provisions in respect of Sikkim State Lotteries had
 already been reported to the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government
 of India on 12.01.2004, vide ref.I cited. The schemes of lotteries
 furnished by the Government of Sikkim revealed that they were not
 in conformity with the provisions of Section 4 of the Lotteries
 Regulation Act, 1998. The irregularities/violations in respect of the
 Sikkim lotteries being sold in Kerala as in January 2004 were
 brought to the notice of the State Government earlier with a request
 for further documents/clarifications. Some of these
 violations/irregularities are briefly mentioned below: 8. Having marshelled the pleadings of parties, time is now ripe to take into

 consideration the legal issues that have been raised in support of these appeals.

 Learned counsel for the appellants, Sri.Sudhir Chandra Agarwal, Senior

 Advocate has raised the following points for our consideration: (2). All lotteries are a form of gambling and online lottery cannot be

 singled out as significantly different from paper lottery. The distinction drawn

 between online lottery and paper lottery by the Government of Kerala is illusory

 and discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 28 - (3). The notifications are arbitrary and mala fide, and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. (4). The impugned notifications are lacking legislative competence and

 are a colourable exercise of power. (5). The impugned notifications, therefore, are clear example of fraud

 on power and colourable exercise of power. 9. A perusal of the legal issues enumerated above would straight

 away reveal that issues 1, 4 and 5 deal with the same point, although spelled out

 in different language thus adding dimensions to the same contention. These

 three issues would thus need to be discussed together. Before, however, we

 may take that exercise in hand, it would be appropriate to deal with 2nd and 3rd

 issues as these are two facets of the same contention of there being no

 distinction between online and paper lottery and in any case the distinction is

 illusory and discriminatory. The notifications suffering from mala fides appears us

 to be a separate and distinct issue and can thus be segregated and made as

 issue No.6. 10. The relevant provisions of the Act of 1998, which we shall refer

 hereinafter, would clearly demonstrate that even though all types of lotteries are

 meant to be regulated by the said Act, online lotteries were not under the


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 29 - contemplation of the Central Government at the time when the Act of 1998 came

 into force. It is otherwise also not a disputed fact that online lotteries became

 popular in so far as India is concerned only recently and in any case after the

 enforcement of the Act, 1998. Having this background in mind, the scheme of

 Act of 1998 would clearly show that the Government at that stage was

 concerned with paper lotteries of all kinds. The statement of Objects and

 Reasons of the Act of 1998 in so far the same is relevant as mentioned in the

 Act reads as follows:- 11. From the preamble of the Act of 1998 spelled out from

 Statement of Objects and Reasons as re-produced above, what transpires is that


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 30 - necessity to bring about legislation in the matter of regulating lotteries was felt on

 account of continued prevalence of single digit and instant lotteries. It was

 primarily done to curb mal practices in the conduct of such lotteries which at that

 time were paper lotteries only when the Act, 1998 came into force. `Lottery' has

 been defined in Section 2(b) of the Act to mean a scheme, in whatever form and

 by whatever name called, for distribution of prizes by lot or chance to those

 persons participating in the chances of a prize by purchasing tickets (emphasis

 supplied). By virtue of provisions contained in Section 3 , save as otherwise

 provided in Section 4 , no State Government shall organise, conduct or promote

 any lottery. There is a ban thus to organise, conduct or promote any lottery by

 State Government except as provided in Section 4 . Conditions, subject to which

 lotteries may be organised by the State, are as follows:- ) the State Government shall sell the tickets either itself or
 through distributors or selling agents; (d) the proceeds of the sale of lottery tickets shall be credited
 into the public account of the State; W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 31 - (e) the State Government itself shall conduct the draws of all the
 lotteries; (f) the prize money unclaimed within such time as may be
 prescribed by the State Government or not otherwise distributed,
 shall become the property of that Government; (g) the place of draw shall be located within the State concerned; (h) no lottery shall have more than one draw in week; (i) the draws of all kinds of lotteries shall be conducted between
 such period of the day as may be prescribed by the State
 Government; (j) the number of bumper draws of a lottery shall not be more
 than six in a calendar year; (k) such other conditions as may be prescribed by the Central
 Government". Whereas, condition (a) completely prohibits distribution of prizes on any pre-

 announced number or on the basis of a single digit, the other conditions, in

 particular clauses (b), ) and (d), do clearly spell out conditions which are on

 lottery tickets. Sections 5 and 6 would further reveal that it was `lottery tickets'

 which was under contemplation of the Central Government, which are

 reproduced below: Section 7 provides for punishment for organising, conducting or promoting a

 lottery in contravention of the provisions of Act of 1998 and under the provisions

 of Section 8 such contravention would be a cognizable and non-bailable offence. 12. Whereas, it may be true that all lotteries are in the form of

 gambling, but from the provisions of the Act of 1998 it cannot be said that in the

 sense that all lotteries are in the form of gambling and, therefore, online lottery

 cannot be different from paper lottery. There is a well marked distinction between

 online lottery and paper lottery and this distinction is neither illusory nor

 discriminatory. In fact, while regulating lotteries by the Act of 1998, as

 mentioned above, online lottery was not even in the contemplation of the Central

 Government. It is the pit falls of paper lottery which were under active

 consideration of the Central Government. Whenever a paper lottery had

 partaken the character of an instant lottery like 'online lottery', the same was

 banned as would be clearly made out not from the statement of Objects and

 Reasons of the Act, 1998 only but also from condition (a) of Section 4 which


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 33 - prohibits distribution of prizes on any pre-announced number or on the basis of a

 single digit. From the various provisions of the Act of 1998 as enumerated

 above, it becomes absolutely clear that it is paper lottery which was required to

 be regulated by Act of 1998, and that being so, even though all lotteries are in

 the form of gambling there is a clear distinction between paper lottery subject

 matter of regulation of the Act of 1998 and the online lottery. The matter does not

 rest there as it would be seen from the provisions of Section 4 of Act of 1998 that

 the tickets of State owned lottery would be printed by the State itself. Sale of

 tickets alone is entrusted to agents and the entire sale proceeds have to be

 deposited in the public account of the State. Draws of all lotteries have to be

 conducted by the State Government and no lottery can have more than one

 draw in a week. Bumper draws shall not be more than six in a calendar year.

 The State can run only 52 ordinary lotteries and six bumper lotteries in an year. Section 5 empowers the State Government to prohibit the sale of tickets of

 lotteries organised by other State Governments. Section 6 empowers the Central

 Government to prohibit the conduct of lotteries which are conducted in violation

 of the conditions of Section 4 or the tickets which are sold in contravention of the

 prohibition imposed by the State Government under Section 5 . There is penalty

 for running a lottery in violation of the provisions of the Act as made out from Section 7 . A punishment can be imposed on sale of tickets in violation of


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 34 - conditions and further that the offence committed under the Act is cognizable

 and non-bailable. Online lottery is such, the features of which automatically result

 into violation of conditions emanating from Section 4 of the Act of 1998. The

 Online lottery has thus necessarily to be termed as significantly different from

 paper lottery. Once it is held that the paper lottery and online lottery are

 significantly different from each other, then banning one and continuing the other

 cannot be termed as discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution

 of India. The distinction between the paper lottery and online lottery could well

 lead to classify the two kinds of lotteries differently. The classification would

 have definite nexus with the object sought to be achieved. The contents of the

 counter affidavit filed by the State giving in details the pit falls of online lottery

 resulting into number of suicides and commission of heinous crimes may be

 recalled at this stage. It is the deleterious effects of the online lottery which

 appeared to the State to make distinction between paper lottery on the one hand

 and online lottery on the other. Reference may also be made to the report of the

 District Lottery Officer, Thrissur available at page 367 of the paper book of

 W.A.No.2012 of 2005. While giving his report, pertaining to problems and social

 chaos relating to online lotteries, it has been stated that the victims of these anti-

 social business are prominently from the poor class of the society. People of all

 walks of life being tortured day by day is progressively increasing due to its


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 35 - fabulous advertisement through medias. Individual cases of victims of online

 lottery have been given as follows:- Available on records is also report of District Lottery Officer,

 Thiruvananthapuram dated 22.7.2004. The relevant part of the same reads as

 follows:- 13. From the perusal of the facts as has been given in the counter

 affidavit supported by specific instances it cannot be said that not even a single

 cogent reason has been given in the counter affidavit as to why the online


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 37 - lotteries have been singled out and classified differently as compared to paper

 lottery and, therefore, the State has not discharged its mandatory function under Article 14 of the Constitution. The judicial precedents in D.S.Nakara v. Union of

 India ( 1983) 1 SCC 305), B.Prabhakara Rao & Ors. v. State of A.P. (1985

 [Supp] SCC 432) and Pratap Singh v. State of Punjab (AIR 1964 SC 72)

 holding the legislative power and action may accordingly be sustained if it

 satisfies the twin tests of reasonable classification and the rational principles

 correlated with the objects sought to be achieved would not be relevant as in the

 present case it is not possible to hold that there is no classified difference

 between an online lottery and a paper lottery. 14. While dealing with issues 1, 4 and 5, it is urged by the learned

 counsel for the appellants that the Honourable Supreme Court in B.R.Enterprises ' case ([1999] 9 SCC 700) has clearly held that the State which

 conducts its own lottery has no power to prohibit another State from conducting

 its lottery within that State. It has been held that it is the Parliament which can

 regulate lotteries organised by the Union or other States under Entry 40 of List 1

 and that in respect of the subject matter of lotteries, States cannot derive

 legislative competence under Entry 34, List II of the 7th Schedule of the

 Constitution of India. The court instead of striking down the constitutional

 validity of Section 5 of the Act read it down in the manner as mentioned below: It is urged by the counsel that all lotteries are a form of gambling . It is a matter

 of public policy for each State to decide whether it wishes to expose its citizens

 to gambling and to lotteries. If it decides that its State should be free from

 lotteries, that is to say, "a lottery free zone", then alone it has the power to ban

 the lotteries of the Union and of other States because it would be extremely

 unreasonable to expose its citizens to gambling in the shape of lotteries of other

 States, when it does not have one of its own, as a matter of policy. When it has

 one of its own as a matter of policy, once, therefore, the State of Kerala has not

 only lotteries of its own, but from other States as well, it will have no legislative

 competence to ban online lotteries, contends the learned counsel. 15. Article 246(1) of the Constitution of India deals with exclusive

 power of the Parliament to make laws with respect to matters enumerated in List

 I (Union List) in the Seventh Schedule. As per Article 246(2) , Parliament and the


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 39 - Legislature of any State have power to make laws with respect to any of the

 matters enumerated in List III (Concurrent List) in the Seventh Schedule. The

 Legislature of the State has, however, exclusive power to make laws with

 respect to matters enumerated in List II (State List) in the Seventh Schedule, as

 per Article 246(3) of the Constitution. Item No.40 of List I (Union List) in the

 Seventh Schedule reads as follows: Item No.34 of List II (State List) reads as follows: There being a specific entry dealing with lotteries, the power to legislate on

 lotteries would be in the exclusive domain of the Parliament, even though lottery

 is also a form of gambling and would be generally covered under Item No.34 of

 List II (State List). The Parliament in exercise of power vested in it to enact law

 on lotteries as per Item No.40 of List I (Union List), enacted the Lotteries

 (Regulation) Act, 1998 . Section 3 of the Act of 1998 ordains that save as


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 40 - otherwise provided in Section 4 , no State Government shall organise, conduct or

 promote any lottery. A State Government has been authorised to organise,

 conduct or promote a lottery, subject to the conditions enumerated in Section 4 which have already been re-produced in the earlier part of the judgment. It is

 absolutely clear that even though the power to legislate on lotteries vests

 exclusively with the Parliament, the respective States have been delegated this

 power, but it has to be subject to conditions enumerated in Section 4 . By virtue

 of the provisions contained in Section 12 of the Act of 1998, the Government

 may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the provisions

 of the Act. Exercising the powers vested in it by the provisions contained in Section 12 , the State of Kerala has framed Rules called as "Kerala Paper

 Lotteries (Regulation) Rules, 2005. 16. Provisions of Act of 1998 and in particular Section 12 thereof,

 would clearly manifest that even though the power to legislate on the subject of

 `lotteries' is in the exclusive domain of the Parliament, the power to legislature on

 lotteries as well has been delegated by the Parliament to respective States in the

 country and as mentioned above, it is in exercise of that power the State of

 Kerala has indeed framed the Rules of 2005. It is significant to mention that Section 5 further authorises a State Government to prohibit the sale of tickets of

 the lottery organised, conducted or promoted by every other State, as would be


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 41 - clear from Section 5 of the Act of 1998. If the things were to rest at that, there

 have been no scope for an argument that the State of Kerala while not making

 the State as a lottery free zone could well prohibit the sale of tickets of lotteries

 organised by every other State. Section 5 of the Act of 1998 was, however,

 under a serious challenge in B.R.Enterprises v. State of U.P. (supra) and it is

 from the observations made by the Honourable Supreme Court in the said case

 that it is being urged by Mr.Agarwal, the learned counsel representing the

 appellants that unless State of Kerala is made a lottery free zone, there would be

 no power with the State Legislature to ban sale of lottery tickets from other

 States. In order to answer the question posed by the learned counsel, we are,

 however, of the view that the context in which the observation made by the

 Supreme Court relied on by the learned counsel were made shall have to be

 noticed. The facts leading to the decision in B.R.Enterprises ' case (supra)

 would reveal that the State of U.P. banned State lotteries of other States by

 virtue of power entrusted under Section 5 of the Act of 1998. Various States

 challenged the provisions in different High Courts. Whereas the Gujarat High

 Court upheld the validity of the order passed by the U.P.Government, the

 Guwahati High Court struck down some of the provisions as ultra vires. It is

 against these orders that appeals were filed in the Honourable Supreme Court

 under Article 32 of the Constitution of India. The Supreme Court was also


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 42 - dealing with some of the petitions which were transferred to it from various High

 Courts dealing with similar issues. What was primarily debated before the

 Honourable Supreme Court was the character of the State lotteries and also if

 lotteries were gambling in nature, would it lose its character as such when it

 takes on the cloak of State lotteries and whether such cloak dissolves its

 character as res extra commercium. In any case, even if lottery was to be

 legalised would it be qualified to be or could it be held to be a trade within the

 meaning of Chapter XIII of the Constitution of India and if lottery was a trade,

 were the provisions of the impugned Act violative of the Articles of Chapter XIII?

 Entrustment of power to State under Section 5 was also challenged as being

 unbridled without any guideline thus liable to be struck down. The precise

 contentions in challenging the validity of Section 5 was that the power conferred

 on the State for banning the lotteries of every other State is bereft of any

 guidelines and, therefore, a piece of excessive delegation. The power was styled

 to be `uncanalised power' conferred on the State at its whim and fancy. There

 was nothing in the Objects, Preamble, or any other provisions of the Act from

 which a guideline could be collected specially that it is only a State which does

 not run its own lottery, can impose such a ban on every other State. Framed in

 somewhat different language the challenge to Section 5 was that the delegation

 to the State to decide to prohibit sale of lotteries organised by other States is a


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 43 - delegation by Parliament of its essential legislative power, without any policy or

 bereft of the guidelines and that there was total abdication of the legislative

 power of the Parliament which was a naked delegation, hence violative of Article

 14 of the Constitution of India. The counter contention raised by the States and

 in particular the State of Tamil Nadu which had banned lotteries of other States,

 but continued to have its own, was that on a plain reading of Section 5 , a State

 without banning its own lotteries can ban lotteries organised by other States. The

 Union of India and also State of U.P. had raised a contention that Section 5 should be read as to entitle only such State to ban which, as a policy, does not

 permit its own lottery to run. If this be so, there possibly could be no

 discrimination as it would apply uniformly to all the States. On the respective

 contentions of the learned counsel as mentioned above, the Honourable

 Supreme Court framed the question as follows: While dealing with the question aforesaid, the Honourable Supreme Court first

 recorded reasons as to why the power had been delegated by the Union to the


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 44 - States. It was inter alia observed as follows:- 17. After taking into consideration the background leading to

 delegation of power by Union to the States, the question as to whether the

 delegation could be construed to be such as amounting to delegation of its


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 45 - essential legislative power and that too unguided or unbridled was examined.

 The question was answered as follows:- 18. From the observations made by the Honourable

 Supreme Court as extracted above, learned counsel representing the appellants,

 however, contends that the State of Kerala could not prohibit any form of lottery

 as long as it was running other forms of lottery of other States as also State of

 Kerala, whereas Mr.Nageswara Rao, learned counsel representing the State of

 Kerala contends that when the State of Kerala may prohibit a particular kind of


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 50 - lottery from State of Kerala, it can prohibit sale of such lottery from any State.

 Having given anxious thoughts to the rival contentions of the learned counsel for

 the parties, we are inclined to accept the contention raised by Mr.Nageswara

 Rao as mentioned above. 19. The observations which Mr.Agarwal endeavours to rely cannot

 be taken in isolation and the reference and the context in which the said

 observations were made have necessarily to be taken into consideration. It may

 be reiterated that the question that came to be framed by the Supreme Court on

 the rival contentions raised by the counsel for the parties was as to whether the

 delegation of essential legislative power of the principal to a delegatee would

 amount to abdication of its legislative power and if it is bereft of any guidelines

 then it is unsustainable in the ye of law. The Honourable Supreme Court first

 held that if the State may decide that it does not want any lotteries, but it feels

 helpless as having no jurisdiction over the lotteries organised by other States

 what is the way out, this, the Honourable Supreme Court observed, would only

 be done by the Parliament or by entrusting this power on such State desiring so,

 which has been done through Section 5 . The remedy is provided by entrusting

 this power on the State under Section 5 . This would help the State to achieve its

 objective of `lottery free zone' within its territory. While dealing with the

 guidelines, Honourable Supreme Court further observed that if a State may want


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 51 - it to be a lottery-free zone, it could not be said that such delegation would be of

 essential legislative power. The only guideline necessary in such delegation was

 to see that the State does not pick and choose one State from the other, which

 guideline is already provided in the Section. If the ban is applied to all the States

 and also the State banning lotteries, the contention that delegation was

 excessive, uncanalised and unbridled would lose its sting. We have read and re-

 read the judgment of the Honourable Supreme Court in B.R.Enterprises ' case

 (supra) and the more we have read, more sanguine and satisfied we are that by

 virtue of the provisions contained in Section 12 of the Act of 1998 the Centre has

 delegated its power on legislation with regard to lotteries to States and further

 that there is specific delegation with regard to ban of lotteries of other States by

 virtue of the provisions contained in Section 5 of the Act of 1998. This delegation

 of legislative power of the principal to the delegatee would not amount to

 abdication of legislative power by the Centre and it would not be without any

 guidelines and would be sustainable in law if the concerned State may ban a

 lottery in its own State and other States as well. What is true with regard to a

 total ban of lotteries of other States in our view would also be true with regard

 to a particular kind of lottery as, the delegation of power has been held to be

 valid if the power by the delegatee may be used uniformly in its own State and

 also in the other States. The core discussion in upholding or reading down as


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 52 - what is urged by Mr.Agarwal, learned counsel for the appellants pertains to

 applying the power uniformly even though it is a different matter that before the

 Honourable Supreme Court the question did not pertain to banning a particular

 kind of lottery. In the context of the facts and circumstances of the case as fully

 detailed above, we hold that when the State of Kerala may prohibit a particular

 kind of lottery from its own State and also other States, it can prohibit sale of

 such lottery from any other State and that would not be unsustainable in the eye

 of law nor it could be against law as held by the Supreme Court in B.R.Enterprises ' case (supra). In fact, as mentioned above, we are of the clear

 view that the Honourable Supreme Court was dealing with delegation of

 essential legislative power of the principal to the delegatee which would amount

 to abdication of legislative power which may be bereft of any guidelines and thus

 unsustainable in the eye of law. The Honourable Supreme Court held that it is

 not a case of abdication of legislative power and it would not be bereft of any

 guidelines if the legislation banning lotteries was applied uniformly. We, on the

 interpretation of the Honourable Supreme Court on the issue of delegation of

 essential legislative power bereft of any guidelines, hold that it is not a case of

 abdication of the legislative power of the Centre and further that if the ban of the

 online lottery applies uniformly, it would not be a case of exercising power by a

 delegatee without any guidelines. W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 53 - 20. The matter does not rest at that. We have already held, on the

 basis of facts enumerated above, that online lottery is violating the provisions of Section 4 . A State Government can organise, conduct or promote a lottery

 subject to conditions mentioned in Section 4 and if there will be a violation, by

 sale of a particular kind of lottery, of the conditions mentioned in Section 4 , it

 would be always open to the State Government to ban sale of such lottery and

 that would be within the legislative power vested with the State under Section 4 of the Act of 1998 as in that case the State would be only complying with the

 provisions of the Act of 1998 made by the Parliament. The learned Single Judge

 while examining the facts of the case, manner and method in which sale of

 online lotteries are conducted, has already held that it violates the provisions

 contained in Section 4 of the Act of 1998. These findings have not been

 seriously challenged. In fact, during the course of arguments, no effort was made

 to dislodge the findings recorded by the learned Single Judge even though, in

 the grounds of appeal and the written brief it has been repeatedly mentioned that

 online lotteries are free from any blemish whatsoever. 21. The view that we have taken from the observation made by the

 Supreme Court in B.R.Enterprises ' case (supra), in any case, is possible. The

 Honourable Supreme Court exhaustively considered all the materials from

 various foreign judgments on gambling in B.R.Enterprises ' case. The learned


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 54 - Single Judge has reproduced the relevant part of the judgment of the

 Honourable Supreme Court on this aspect and held as follows:- We are in respectful agreement with the view expressed by the learned Single

 Judge as reproduced above. 22. Mr.Agarwal, learned counsel for the appellants seriously called

 in question the finding of the learned Single Judge based on Section 5 that the

 words `any lottery' would mean a particular kind of lottery and, therefore, the

 Government had power to ban sale of tickets of a particular kind of lottery. The

 contention made by the learned counsel prima facie appears to be correct. But,

 in view of our discussion as made above upholding the power of the Government

 to ban online lottery from the State of Kerala and all other States there is no

 need to give any definite view on the aforesaid observation of the learned


W.A.Nos.2011, 2012 & 2235 of 2005 - 55 - counsel. 23. There is absolutely scanty material with regard to the impugned

 notifications being vitiated on the ground of mala fides. There is no basis nor

 material whatsoever to support even the scanty pleadings dealing with mala

 fides. The contention thus based upon mala fides has to be repelled. Finding no merit in the appeals, we dismiss the same leaving,

 however, the parties to bear their own costs. Sd/- V.K.Bali
 Chief Justice

 Sd/- J.B.Koshy
 Judge

 vku/- - true copy - P.A. to Judge.