1. This is an action for infringement of trade mark and passing off. 2. The case of the Plaintiff is that in or around March, 2017, the

 Plaintiff coined and conceived the mark 'CAMPURE' for use in respect

 of various camphor-based products and camphor derived products

 such as deodorants, room fragrancing preparations, air fragrancing

 preparations, soaps, hair conditioners, hair lotions and sanitary

 preparations being toiletries wherein camphor is the main ingredient. The Plaintiff conceived and designed a unique and stylized logo

 bearing "CAMPURE" as one of its leading and essential

features. The Plaintiff applied for registration of the mark "CAMPURE"

and under Class 3, 4 and 5 and obtained registrations

which are valid and subsisting. 3. It is submitted that in the year 2014, the Plaintiff launched its

camphor product bearing a unique cone shape trade dress wrapped in

non-woven fabric, which trade dress was registered in Class 5 and was

launched under the Plaintiff's trade mark "MANGALAM". The Plaintiff

has been using the trade mark "CAMPURE" and since the

year 2017 in respect of its cone shaped camphor product. In order to

demonstrate the goodwill and reputation, the statement of sales

figure and the advertisement expenses are set out in paragraph 11 of

the plaint and for the period from 2017 to 2024, the sales figure is Rs.

1,10,23,58,982/- and Rs. 29,25,90,351/- respectively. It is submitted

that the Plaintiff maintains his website www.houseofmangalam.com

wherein the Plaintiff's goods inter alia bearing the said trade mark

"CAMPURE"/ are prominently promoted and offered for

Shubham 2 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

sale. The Plaintiff's trade mark has established a distinct identity in the

market and the Plaintiff has acquired valuable statutory and common

law rights in their registered trademarks. 4. In or around December, 2022, the Plaintiff learnt from market

sources that the Defendant was preparing to launch its cone shape

camphor product under the name "Air Kapur Camphor Cone" in a trade

dress potentially identical with the Plaintiff's cone shape camphor

products. The Plaintiff addressed legal notice dated 2 nd December,

2022 to the Defendant conveying concerns over the Defendant's

intention to launch of cone shape camphor product in identical shape

as that of the Plaintiff. Vide reply dated 5 th December, 2022, the

Defendant contended that the Defendant's camphor products are sold

under the Defendant's registered trade mark. It was stated that the

Plaintiff does not hold any trade mark registration in respect of cone

shape trade dress and the Plaintiff's trade mark Application No.

4465571 is facing opposition and the Plaintiff's trade mark no 5339527

stands liable to be refused for being non-distinctive as per the

Registrar of Trade Marks examination report. The Plaintiff has stated

in the plaint that the Plaintiff's cone shaped trade dress is not the

subject matter of the present suit. 5. It is stated that subsequent to the Defendant's reply dated 5 th

December, 2022, the Plaintiff did not come across any cone shape

Shubham 3 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

camphor product of the Defendant. In or around July-2024, while

conducting general due diligence on the trade mark registry's online

records, the Plaintiff came across Defendant's trade mark registration

for the impugned mark "AIR KARPURE" bearing no. 4732154 dated 4th

November, 2020 in Class 05 applied on proposed to be used basis

which was identical/deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's trade mark

"CAMPURE". The Plaintiff also came across the Defendant's website

www.karpure.in which revealed that the Defendant is using the mark

"AIR KARPURE" as device mark wherein the word 'AIR'

is written in the smaller font about the word "KARPURE" written in

larger font in respect of camphor products such as air fresheners, "air

pouch", camphor tablets, camphor mosquito repellents, etc. as also the

device mark is used in respect of range of personal care

products. 6. On 1st August, 2024, the Plaintiff applied to the trade mark

registry seeking rectification of the register/cancellation of the

Defendant's impugned registration for the mark "AIR KARPURE" and

on 20th January, 2025 the Defendant filed its counter statement to the

Plaintiff's rectification Application contending that the impugned mark

'AIR KARPURE' was adopted by the Defendant in 2020 and commenced

its use since 2022. 7. In the affidavit-in-reply, it is submitted that the Defendant was

initially established as proprietary concern in 1948 by the grandfather

of the current director of the Defendant which was then converted into

partnership firm and subsequently into private limited company on

23rd December, 2014. The Defendant in course of his business coined

and adopted various distinctive marks such as CYCLE, CYCLE BRAND

THREE IN ONE, WOODS, LIA, HERITAGE, RHYTHM, etc., and the house

mark "Cycle" is acknowledged as well known mark by the Madras High

Court as well as published in the list of well known trade marks. 8. The Defendant has used the tagline in respect of its products in

the fragrance industry such as "Everyone has a reason to pray", "Pray

for India", "Bhagwan Hai", "Purity of Prayers" which is the foundation

on the basis of which the word pure has been used as integral part of

the Defendant's promotional campaign. The Defendant has been

granted registration for the word mark "Cycle Pure" as well as the

device mark along with tagline in Class 16, 3, 41 and 35. In

October/November, 2020, the Defendant honestly coined and adopted

the Defendant's mark 'KARPURE'/ 'AIR KARPURE' for use of the same

in relation to inter alia sanitary preparations, disinfectants, foams,

sprays, liquid etc falling in Class 5 and 11. The Defendant's mark

"KARPURE" was coined based on the combination of the Sanskrit name

for camphor i.e. Karpura and Pure which is unique and inherently

Shubham 5 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

distinctive. The logo devised by the Defendant's employee prominently

displays the Defendant's cycle logo at top right corner. The Defendant

has applied for registration of "AIR KARPURE" and "KARPURE" mark on

4th November, 2020 which are valid and subsisting in Class 5 and 11 and

in respect of registration of "AIR KARPURE" in Class 5 rectification

Application is filed by the Plaintiff which is pending. 9. It is stated that in or about 2022, the Defendant commenced the

use of the impugned mark in relation to the Defendant's goods and the

long association of the said mark with the Defendant's goods has

resulted in the mark being highly distinctive of the Defendant's goods.

The sales figure in respect of the goods marketed under the

Defendant's mark for the year 2024-25 was Rs. 479 lakhs. It is

submitted that the Defendant being registered proprietor, no suit for

infringement can lie against the registered proprietor. It is submitted

that the Plaintiff has concealed the material fact that its trade mark

registration no. 3643444 for the mark 'CAMPURE'/ for

wider specification of goods including Deodorizers and air purifiers

was opposed by one Lifestar Pharma Private Limited", being proprietor

of mark 'CALAPURE' in which the Plaintiff filed its counter statement

stating that its mark 'CAMPURE' is entirely different from the mark

'CALAPURE' and that no one can claim monopoly over the word 'PURE'

Shubham 6 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

as several marks including the mark "CAROPURE" were existing in

record of trade mark registry. Pursuant to the opposition, the Plaintiff

entered into memorandum of understanding whereby it restricted its

specification of goods to deodorizers and purifiers including air

purifying preparations, air deodorizing preparations, deodrants. It is

stated that the rival marks are dissimilar and distinct, visually,

phonetically, structurally and conceptually from each other. It is further

submitted that the Plaintiff has failed to make out any case of goodwill

and reputation in the Plaintiff's mark prior to the adoption of the

Defendant's mark. It is further stated that on 2 nd December, 2022, the

Plaintiff had sent cease and desist notice which was responded by the

Defendant and the suit has been filed after four years and therefore

the Plaintiff's Application suffers from delay, laches and acquiescence.

It is submitted that the Court will not have jurisdiction in case of

passing off as the Defendant is selling its product online wherein the

products can be ordered and delivered in every part of India. 10. In rejoinder, it is contended that this is fit case for the Court to

go behind validity of the Defendant's registration of the impugned

mark even at the interim stage. It is stated that the Defendant has

obtained registration of its mark in Class 11 which is by playing fraud as

Class 11 in not the relevant class. The Defendant's impugned mark

"KARPURE", "AIR KARPURE" and device mark are identical/deceptively

Shubham 7 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

similar to the Plaintiff's trade mark "CAMPURE" when the rival marks

are taken as a whole rather than in parts. 11. It is stated that the opposition to the registration of the

Plaintiff's mark filed by the third party was withdrawn pursuant to

memorandum of understanding and the stand taken in the counter

statement does not constitute material or relevant fact. It is

contended that the Plaintiff does not claim any exclusivity of the

standalone word "PURE" and the marks when taken as a whole are

similar. It is stated that in the opposition proceedings, the third party

opponent's mark "CALAPURE" was phonetically, visually and

conceptually dissimilar to the Plaintiff's trade mark "CAMPURE" which

consisted of three syllable and eight letters whereas the Plaintiff's

mark comprises of two syllable and seven letters and in the present

case the rival mark comprises of two syllable and seven letters. It is

stated that in the present case the rival goods in the customer base in

trade channels are the same leading to possibility of confusion. It is

stated that there is no delay, laches or acquiescence on part of the

Plaintiff and the cease and desist notice pertained only to the cone

shape camphor product. SUBMISSIONS: 12. Mr. Kamod, learned Counsel for the Plaintiff has taken this

Court through the registration certificates of the Plaintiff's mark, the

Shubham 8 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

sale figure, advertisement expenses and the invoices to demonstrate

user and registration since the year 2017. He submits that in reply to

the cease and desist notice, the Defendant had contended that the

Defendant's camphor products are sold under the Defendant's

registered trade mark without mentioning that the Defendant trade

mark is "KARPURE". He submits that as the Plaintiff had learnt about

the potential launch by the Defendant of cone shape trade dress, the

cease and desist notice was issued and as the said product was not

launched, there is no question of any delay. He would further point out

that the Defendant had applied for registration of the word mark 'AIR

KARPURE' on 4th November, 2020 on proposed to be used basis in Class 5. The user by the Defendant is of the year 2022 and the Plaintiff has

filed for rectification/cancellation of Defendant's mark which is

pending. 13. He would further draw attention of this Court to paragraph 35

of the plaint to contend that the Defendant has used the impugned

mark in relation to similar goods as that of the Plaintiff's such as

bathing soap, air freshener, liquid, mosquito repellent, suspendible

sachet air freshener and camphor cone/ pouch. He submits that the

Defendant uses the word "AIR" in negligible font and the trademark

"KARPURE" is phonetically similar to the Plaintiff's mark "CAMPURE".

He submits that the impugned mark uses the alphabet 'P' in capital

Shubham 9 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

case similar to that of Plaintiff's mark. 14. He submits that the Defendant has registration of the word

mark Cycle in Class 5 which it does not use. He submits that the

explanation tendered that the mark is adopted by combination of the

Sanskrit word 'KARPURA' and 'PURE' is unacceptable. He submits that

the registration of the Defendant's mark 'AIR KARPURE' is ex-facie

illegal as the essential features of the Plaintiff's mark are copied and

this Court can go behind the validity of registration and restrain the

Defendant. 15. He submits that for the purpose of passing off, the relevant date

is date of user i.e. 2022. He submits that there is no delay, laches and

acquiescence as notice issued by Plaintiff in 2022 was not for

'KARPURE' but for cone shaped trade dress. 16. He submits that in the opposition application to the Plaintiff's

mark, the mark was 'CAROPURE' and the stand taken was 'CAMPURE'

was different. He submits that the word 'CAROPURE' 'CAMPURE' and

'CALAPURE' are dissimilar and there is no question of any estoppel. He

submits that for the purpose of acquiescence, the Defendant has not

shown that he has altered his position. He submits that the Court will

have jurisdiction in respect of passing off action as the Defendant's

products are available on e-commerce website of Amazon and are

delivered within the jurisdiction of this Court. In support he relies upon

Shubham 10 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

the following decisions. 1 Corona Remedies Pvt Ltd vs. Franco-Indian Pharmaceuticals Pvt
 Ltd.1 2 Encore Electronics Ltd vs. Anchor Electronics & Electricals 2
3 Sun Pharmaceuticals Industries Limited vs. Emcure
 Pharmaceuticals Ltd3 4 Hiralal Parbhudas vs. Ganesh Trading Company4 5 Pidilite Industries Ltd vs. Poma-Ex Products5 6 Pidilite Industries Limited vs. Riya Chemy6 7 Kantilal Premji Maru vs. Madan Kumar7 8 Hab Pharmaceutical and Research Ltd & Anr. vs. Regain
 Laboratories & Anr (decision of this Court in IAL-2307-2023 In Com
 IPR Suit No. 489 of 2022 Original side dated 18th July 2023.) 17. Per contra, Mr. Khandekar learned Counsel appearing for the

Defendant submits that the Plaintiff is not entitled to any interim relief

as there is suppression of material fact as regards the opposition to the

Plaintiff's registration of the mark 'CAMPURE'. He submits that in the

counter statement, the Plaintiff had taken the stand that the mark

'CALAPURE' and 'CAMPURE' are different and distinct and there is no

monopoly over the word "Pure" and therefore prosecution history

estoppel will operate in the present case. He further submits that

1 MANU/MH/0410/2023
2 2007 SCC OnLine Bom 147
3 MANU/MH/0020/2012
4 AIR 1984 Bom218
5 2017(72) PTC1 (Bom)
6 2023(1)ABR 710
7 MANU/MH/1038/2018

Shubham 11 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

there is no similarity between the rival marks and the Defendant is

registered proprietor of the mark 'AIR KARPURE'/KARPURE in Class 5

and Class 11 and points out to the registrations. He submits that there

can be no monopoly about the common descriptive word "Pure" and

where the common element between the two rival marks is descriptive

and common to the trade greater regard has to be paid to uncommon

elements of the rival marks. He further submits that the Defendant is

leading manufacturer in the fragrance industry and has adopted

various distinctive trade mark of "Cycle" which is acknowledged as well

known trade mark and that by virtue of tagline the word "Pure" is part

of registration of mark. He submits that there is no case made out for

going beyond the registration, that there is overlap of classification

and the registration is not ex-facie illegal. 18. He submits that the Plaintiff seeks restraining order against the

Defendant from using the impugned mark KARPURE /

 / AIR KARPURE / or the impugned

domain name which relief cannot be asked as the Defendant is the

registered proprietor. In support he relies upon following decision:- 19. In rejoinder Mr. Kamod would submit that for the application of

doctrine of estoppel it has to be shown there are contrary stand has

been taken by the Plaintiff and the Defendant has altered its position.

He submits that the decisions relied upon are in the case of medicinal

preparations and it is not the Defendant's case that the word 'PURE' is

common to the trade. He submits that the dishonesty of the Defendant

is evident from the fact that his registration of the mark 'KARPURE' is

in respect of Class-11 for apparatus whereas he uses the mark in

respect of soap. He submits that the passing off action is maintainable

as the Plaintiff is prior user and the consumer will be left in state of
10 2016 SCC OnLine Bom 4317
11 1996 (39) DRJ (DB)
12 (1969) 2 SCC 716
13 2019 SCC OnLine Bom 1186
14 2012 SCC OnLine Bom 513
15 2002 SCC OnLine Bom 1138

Shubham 13 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

wonderment as the marks are phonetically and structurally similar and

the added material will not come in aid of the Defendant.

REASONS AND ANALYSIS : [See Kantilal Premji Maru vs Madan Kumar (supra)]. The real question

is whether the Plaintiff has made out a prima facie case so as to

restrain a registered proprietor from use of its trade mark. 23. In so far as the Plaintiff is concerned, in paragraph 6 of the

plaint and Exhibit "A", the Plaintiff has set out the various registrations

obtained by the Plaintiff for the said trade mark CAMPURE /

 as under: 24. The registrations are substantiated by production of the

certificates at Exhibit "B" to "B-8" of the Plaint. The annexures when

perused shows that the Plaintiff's Registration No 3607515 dated 6 th

June, 2017 is in respect of the mark "CAMPURE", where all alphabets

are depicted in capital case. It is in the mark of which was

registered on 25th September, 2017, that the Plaintiff depicted its mark

by using the middle letter "P" in capital case. The wordmark "CamPure"

using similar depiction of middle letter P was registered on 22 nd

February, 2022 vide Registration Number 5339528. The factum of the

subsequent registration of the wordmark "CamPure" in the year 2022

is significant as one of the similarities claimed by the Plaintiff is the use

of by the Defendant of the middle alphabet "P" in capital case in its

trade mark. Pertinently, the Defendant had applied for registration of

its mark in the year 2020 itself. 25. The Defendant applied for registration of its trade marks 'AIR

KARPURE' and "KARPURE" in Class 5 and 11 on 4 th November, 2020 on

proposed to be used basis. The details of the Defendant's registration

are as under: 26. In or around July, 2022, the Defendant's employee at the

instance of the Defendant created the original artwork of

 / and the no objection certificate

dated 22nd July, 2022 is placed on record. 27. Section 29 of the T.M. Act, 1999 which governs the infringement

of trade mark provides that a registered trade mark is infringed by a

person, who not being a registered proprietor uses in course of trade, a

mark which is identical with or deceptively similar to the registered

trade mark. The provision makes it clear that to constitute

infringement of a registered trade mark, the basic requirement of Section 29 of T.M. Act, 1999 is use of identical/deceptively similar mark

by a person who is not a registered proprietor. In the present case, the

Plaintiff and Defendant are both registered proprietors of their

respective trade marks and therefore remedy of infringement under

Shubham 18 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc Section 29 of T.M. Act, 1999 is not available to the Plaintiff. The

pleadings in the plaint when read holistically would prima facie indicate

that the Plaintiff has premised its suit on the requirements of Section

29 of the T.M. Act, 1999 by contending about the deceptive similarity

of the rival marks, which expression finds place in Section 29 of the

T.M. Act, 1999. 28. In Corona Remedies Pvt Ltd vs. Franco-Indian Pharmaceuticals

Pvt Ltd , (supra) the Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court considered

the provisions of Section 28(3) of the T.M. Act,1999 to hold that once

trade mark is registered, remedy of infringement is not available

against the registered proprietor. In that context the Co-ordinate

Bench considered the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of S. Syed Moideen vs. Sulochana Bai 2016 (2) SCC 683 where the

Hon'ble Apex Court held that as per Section 28(3) the owner of

registered trade mark cannot sue for infringement of it against a trade

mark which is registered and that the provisions of Section 27(2) as

regards the passing off would still be available. 29. In order to restrain the Defendant from the use of its registered

trade mark, the Plaintiff seeks to assail the validity of registration of

the Defendant's trade mark. Though there are no specific pleadings

which will indicate the grounds on which the validity is assailed,

considering the arguments canvassed this Court has proceeded to

Shubham 19 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

consider the aspect of validity of the registration of the Defendant's

mark on the basis of the provisions of Section 9(2)(a) and Section 11 of

T.M. Act, 1999. Section 9 deals with the absolute grounds for refusal

and Section 11 deals with relative grounds of refusal of registration.

The statutory provisions provides that a mark which by reason of

identity/similarity to earlier registered trade mark and

similarity/identity of goods is likely to cause confusion on part of the

public which includes likely association with the earlier registered

trade mark should not be registered. The refusal of registration would

therefore be based on a finding that the subsequent mark is so

identical or similar to the earlier registered trade mark so as to cause

confusion amongst the public. 30. The rights which are conferred by virtue of registration of the

mark is set out in Section 28 of T.M. Act, 1999 which reads as under: 31. Section 28(3) of T.M. Act, 1999 provides for an eventuality

where two or more persons are registered proprietors of identical or

nearly resembling trade marks and in such cases, the exclusive right

cannot be enforced against the other registered proprietor. The rights

of registered proprietor is further protected by Section 30 of T.M. Act,

1999 which limits the effects of registered trade mark and Section

30(2)(e) provides that a registered trade mark is not infringed where

the use of the registered trade mark, being one of two or more trade

marks registered under the Act, which are identical or nearly resemble

each other, is in exercise of the right to use of the trade mark given by

registration under this Act. 32. Conjoint reading of Section 28 (3) and Section 30(2) (e) of the T.

M. Act 1999 thus protects the right of use of the trade mark conferred

by registration of trade mark, if valid, by keeping out the action for

infringement where the mark is used in exercise of right conferred by

Shubham 21 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

the registration. The significant use of the words, if valid, occurring in Section 28(3) of the T. M. Act,1999 came up for consideration of the

Hon'ble Full Bench of this Court in the case of Lupin Ltd. vs. Johnson

and Johnson16 where the Hon'ble Full Bench was considering whether

the Court can venture into the question of validity of registration of

the trademark at an interlocutory stage upon defence of invalidity of

registration being taken and Hon'ble Full Bench concluded its findings

in paragraph 59(3), (5), (6) and (8) are as under: The plaintiff is not required to prove that the registration
 of a trade mark is not invalid, but only in the cases where
 the factum of registration is ex facie totally illegal or
 fraudulent or shocks the conscience of the Court that the
 Court may decline to grant relief in favour of the
 plaintiff. (Paras 25, 27 and 55)

 (6) It is not sufficient for the defendant to show that the
 defendant has an arguable case for showing invalidity.
 The prima facie satisfaction of the Court to stay the trial

16 [2015(1) Mh.L.J. 501)

Shubham 22 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

 under section 124 of the Act is not enough to refuse
 grant of interim injunction. It is only in exceptional
 circumstances, such as, the registration being ex facie
 illegal or fraudulent or which shocks the conscience of
 the Court that Court will refuse the interim injunction in
 favour of the registered proprietor of the trade mark.
 (Para 57)

 (8) Though it is considered as a practice of this Court in
 granting injunction in favour of the plaintiff having a
 registered trade mark, the same cannot be treated as a
 total embargo on the power of the Court to refuse grant
 of interim injunction. In exceptional cases, that is in cases
 of registration of trade mark being ex facie illegal,
 fraudulent or such as to shock the conscience of the
 Court, the Court would be justified in refusing to grant
 interim injunction. (Para 33)" Whether the rival marks are likely to cause confusion by reason of its

identity/similarity is a matter of first impression. When so viewed, the

Defendant's marks does not resemble the Plaintiff's marks in a manner

as to cause confusion as to whether the mark is that of the Plaintiff or

the Defendant. As the illegality is not ex facie demonstrable, no case

of infringement is made out and the case ought to have been put to

rest here in so far as action of infringement is concerned. However, as

substantial arguments were advanced on the similarities between the

rival marks, which otherwise could be appreciated in the background of Section 29 of T.M. Act, 1999, going one step further, this Court has

proceeded to consider whether prima facie case of arguable similarity

is made out. 37. It is well settled that the marks have to be viewed as a whole and

it is not permissible to dissect the marks and compare parts of the

Shubham 25 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

mark. Prima facie, the Defendant is using its registered mark as device

mark / whereas the Plaintiff is using

its mark . The Defendant's mark is depicted in stylized

cursive font with the initial alphabet K" written in form of a flower

whereas the Plaintiff's mark is depicted in block letters

with the middle letter "P" in capital case towering over the starting

alphabet "C". In the Defendant's mark the middle letter "P" even in

capital case is contiguous with the rest of the letters. The Plaintiff's

mark is depicted inside a distinct elongated shape, which is not so in

case of the Defendant's mark. The manner of depiction of the rival

marks and the artwork used in the rival marks prima facie sets apart the

rival marks. There is no possibility of slurring over the word "r" of the

impugned mark so as to sound phonetically similar to the word "m". It

needs to be noted that the relevant consumer base for the products

which are deodorizers, air purifiers etc would be an average educated

class with the ability to differentiate between the rival marks and the

products. Prima facie, the Plaintiff has not been able to meet the

threshold of ex-facie illegality so as to deprive the Defendant of the

use of its registered trade mark. Upon prima facie comparison of the

rival marks, in my view, there is no similarity/resemblance between the

Shubham 26 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

two marks which will lead of causing confusion among the public or

likely association of the Defendant's goods as that of the Plaintiff. 38. Though arguments were advanced on fraudulent registration, it

is well settled that where plea of fraud is raised, it is necessary to set

out the necessary particulars of fraud which are missing in the present

case. It is not sufficient to reproduce the expression used in the

decision of Lupin Ltd. vs. Johnson and Johnson (supra) without

specific pleadings to demonstrate the fraud. In so far as the dishonest

adoption is concerned, the argument is that the registration is made in

Class 5 in respect of goods which do not fall in Class 5. Prima facie, the

registration of the Defendant's mark "AIR KARPURE" under Class 5 is

also in respect of room and car freshners and deodorizers, which is

similar to the Plaintiff's registration for deodorizers and purifiers, air

deodorizing preparations. If the classifications in Class 3 and 5 are

seen, there is certain overlapping between the classification as some of

the products can fall in either of the classifications. The Defendant is

prima facie using the registered mark in relation to the goods in

respect of which the mark is registered. Pertinently, in the case of Allied Auto Accessories Ltd vs Allied Motors Pvt Ltd (supra), the Co-

ordinate Bench of this Court held that guidelines or classification lists

which are published are only administrative guidelines. 39. In the case of Kantilal Premji Maru vs. Madan Kumar (supra)

Shubham 27 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

this Court applying the Lupin principles to the rival marks in that case held the same to be ex-facie illegal. The rival marks were "Classic

Steels" and and Defendant's mark was "5 Classic Care". The Court

noted that the word "Classic" written in distinctive font in Plaintiff's

registered trade mark is bodily lifted and copied by the Defendant in

its trade mark. Similarly in Pidilite Industries Limited vs Riya

Chemy (supra), the Plaintiff's mark as "M-Seal" and Defendant's mark

was "R-Seal". In Pidilite Industries vs Poma-Ex Products (supra), the

rival marks were "FEVIKWIK" and "KWIKHEAL". It is in such facts of

that cases, the Court went beyond the registration and held the same

to be ex-facie illegal. 40. The decision in Hiralal Prabhudas vs Ganesh Trading Company

and Ors (supra) sets out the settled test for considering the case of

deceptive similarity in proceedings arising out of rejection of

application for rectification. 41. In the case of Encore Electronics Ltd vs. Anchor Electronics &

Electricals (supra) the Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court considered

the phonetic similarity between the rival marks and took into

consideration principle laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case

of Cadila Health Care Ltd vs. Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 17 There is

no quarrel with the principles laid down in the said judgments

17 (2001) 5 Supreme Court Cases 73

Shubham 28 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

following the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court and what assumes

significance is the application of the principle to the facts of each case.

The precedents would bind in so far as the tests are concerned and not

in respect of the factual aspects. The well settled principles laid down

by the Court will differ in its application to the facts of each case which

is required to be considered by comparing the rival marks concerned

therein. When the well settled tests are applied to the present case,

the Plaintiff has failed to make out an exceptional case so as to

warrant going beyond the registration of the Defendant's mark and

deprive the Defendant who is registered proprietor of its statutory

right of use of its mark. 42. Another reason which disentitles the Plaintiff to the

discretionary relief is suppression of material fact as the Plaintiff has

not placed on record the stand taken by the Plaintiff in the counter

statement to the opposition of the registration of its mark. In case of Phonepe Private Limited vs Resilient Innovations Private Limited (2023 SCC Online Bom 764), the Co-ordinate Bench of this Court has

held that the stand taken by the Plaintiff therein before the Registrar

of Trade marks in the examination report is a relevant factor and by

not placing its own stand, the Plaintiff dis-entitled itself to grant of

discretionary reliefs under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of CPC . 43. The Plaintiff seeks to restrain the Defendant, who is also the

Shubham 29 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

registered proprietor from use of its registered mark by claiming

exclusive use of its mark. It was therefore necessary for the Plaintiff

to place on record all facts which led to the registration of the

Plaintiff's own marks. The non disclosure of the opposition to the

Plaintiff's registration and the stand taken by the Plaintiff in the

counter statement, which had to be produced by the Defendant, dis-

entitles the Plaintiff to grant of discretionary relief. 44. There is bonafide explanation for adoption of the mark by the

Defendant as its mark contains the word "Pure" which forms part of its

earlier registered marks and is in consonance with its various tag lines

using purity as its theme. 45. Prima facie, the Defendant's registration being valid and

subsisting till date entitles the Defendant to use of the registered

trade mark under Section 28(3) read with Section 30(2) (e) of the T.M.

Act, 1999 and there is no infringement of statutory rights of the

Plaintiff by reason of the use of the Defendant's validly registered

trade marks. 46. In so far as the common law remedy of passing off is

concerned, the relevant date which is required to be considered is the

adoption of the Defendant's mark i.e. in the year 2022. In the case of Sun Pharmaceuticals Industries Limited vs. Emcure Pharmaceuticals

Ltd. , (supra), the Hon'ble Single Judge held that the mere fact of

Shubham 30 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

registration has no relevance and the requisite goodwill and reputation

has to be shown on the date on which the Defendant use their

impugned mark. In the present case the Defendant has used the mark

admittedly in the year 2022 and the relevant date for the purpose of

considering the action of passing off is 2022. 47. To succeed in an action for passing off, the three ingredients to

be prima facie established are goodwill, misrepresentation and

damage. It is trite that an action for passing off is maintainable even

against a registered proprietor. It is required to be demonstrated that

by reason of the extensive use of the mark by the Plaintiff the same

has acquired enormous goodwill and reputation that the registered

mark is associated exclusively with the Plaintiff's goods, that the use of

the mark is likely to cause damage, and, that there is mis-

representation by the Defendant. Paragraph 11 of the plaint pleads

that the sales figure and advertisement expenses in respect of entire

range of products sold under the registered mark "CAMPURE" for the

year 2022-23 was Rs. 28,37,62,674/- and Rs. 4,07,79,619/- respectively.

To support the figures, the Chartered Accountant's certificate is

annexed at page 283 of the plaint which certifies that the sales figure

and the advertisement expenses are in respect of all camphor product

from 2014 onwards. What is necessary to be substantiated is the stand

alone sales figure in respect of products marketed under the mark

Shubham 31 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

'CAMPURE' / device mark, which will indicate the goodwill

and reputation earned by the Plaintiff in respect of the relevant marks

and not the sales figure of all camphor products of the Plaintiff. There

is no material on record pointed out on the basis of which it can be

prima facie held that the Plaintiff's registered mark has acquired such

distinctive character that the consumers identify the mark with that of

the Plaintiff's products only. 48. The material on record shows that the rival marks are used by

the Plaintiff and the Defendant respectively in respect of their various

products. It was necessary for Plaintiff to specifically plead about the

Plaintiff's products marketed under its mark which is so marketed by

the Defendant so as to pass off its goods as that of the Plaintiff. The

plea is that the Plaintiff's cone shaped trade dress is not the subject

matter of the present suit and thereafter the plaint proceeds to set

out the similarity in the packaging of the cone shaped trade dress.

There is absence of specific pleading about specific products of the

Defendants designed to pass off as that of the Plaintiffs. 49. The question to be asked as set out in Ruston & Hornsby Ltd vs

The Zamindara Engineering Company [(1969) 2 SCC 727] is whether

the Defendant is selling the goods so marked as to be designed or

calculated to lead purchasers to believe that they are the Plaintiff's

Shubham 32 of 33
 IAL-7446-2025.doc

goods. Prima facie comparison of the rival products set out in

paragraph 35 of the plaint indicates dissimilarity in the packaging in

which the rival products are vended. There is marked difference in the

manner in which the Defendant is vending its products. There is

variation in the colour scheme, packaging and the general look of the

Defendant's packaging. The difference in physical appearances or the

packaging plays a significant role in case of passing off. The

differences are prima facie sufficient to distinguish the goods of the

Defendant from that of the Plaintiff. Viewed thus, the Plaintiff has

failed to make out prima facie case for passing off. 50. Though contention has been raised by Mr. Khandekar against

grant of interim injunction on the ground of delay, laches and

acquiescence, it is well settled that delay by itself is not sufficient as

defense in an action for infringement and in so far as acquiescence is

concerned it is necessary to show some positive act on part of the

Plaintiff based on which the Defendant had altered its position. There

is no such material which has been placed on record and therefore the

contention on the ground of delay, laches and acquiescence fails. 51. In light of the above discussion, the Interim Application fails and

stands dismissed.