This appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration and

 Conciliation Act, 1996 raises the issue under what circumstances an

 injunction can be granted against the invocation of a Bank Guarantee. This

 Court in this appeal will have to decide whether the respondents have

 satisfied the legal requirements for grant of injunction against the

 invocation of the Bank Guarantee by the Appellant. Under the impugned

 order dated 09.06.2021 passed under Section 17 of the Arbitration and

 Conciliation Act, the Arbitral Tribunal has granted an order in favour of

 the respondents restraining the Appellant from encashing the Bank 2/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 Guarantee of Rs.117.5 Crores given by the respondents in favour of the

 Appellant, who is the beneficiary under the said Bank Guarantee. 2. The case of the respondents before the Arbitral Tribunal as

 seen from the affidavit filed in support of its application under Section 17 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act is that the Appellant through a

 speculative claim is attempting to invoke the Bank Guarantee given by the

 respondents for a sum of Rs.117.5 crores, which will amount to egregious

 fraud and it is their case that in case of encashment of the Bank Guarantee

 by the Appellant, the respondents will suffer irretrievable injustice. It is

 also the case of the respondents that though the Bank Guarantee is an

 independent contract between the Banker and the Beneficiary viz., the

 Appellant herein, the subject Bank Guarantee given by the respondents is

 not an unconditional Bank Guarantee and is subject to the fulfilment of the

 terms and conditions contained therein which has to be strictly adhered to

 by the Appellant. According to the respondents even without proper

 estimate and crystallization of the losses alleged to have been suffered by

 the Appellant, they have attempted to fraudulently invoke the Bank 3/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 Guarantee. It is also their case that the deficiencies pointed out by the

 Appellant on the execution of the work by the respondents are too trivial

 in nature and have been made only to fraudulently and illegally encash the

 Bank Guarantee given by the respondents for a sum of Rs.117.5 Crores.

 According to the respondents having satisfied the legal requirements for

 obtaining an order of injunction against the Appellant from encashment of

 the Bank Guarantee, the Arbitral Tribunal exercising its discretionary

 power under Section 17 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act has rightly

 granted the relief sought for by the respondents. 3. However, it is the contention of the Appellant that the

 respondents have committed breach of contract by not completing the

 work in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract entered

 into between the Appellant and the Respondents. According to the

 Appellant, there was an enormous delay in the completion of the project

 by the respondents and there were several deficiencies in service

 committed by the respondents which have been intimated to the

 respondents prior to the invocation of the Bank Guarantee. It is their case 4/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 that the Bank Guarantee given by the respondents is an unconditional

 Bank Guarantee as seen from the terms and conditions of the Bank

 Guarantee. According to them as seen from the Bank Guarantee, without

 demur, the Bank will have to permit the Appellant to encash the Bank

 Guarantee. It is their case that they have suffered losses to the extent of

 Rs.900 Crores on account of the delay in completion of the project by the

 respondents and on account of the deficiencies in service and sub standard

 work on the part of the respondents and therefore, only in accordance with

 the terms and conditions of the contract, the Appellant has invoked the

 Bank Guarantee. It is also their contention that the Bank Guarantee being

 an independent contract between the Banker and the Beneficiary and the

 said Bank Guarantee also being an unconditional and an irrevocable one,

 the respondents have got no locus-standi to obtain an order of injunction

 restraining the Appellant from invoking the Bank Guarantee. 4. Heard, Mr.Yashod Vardhan, learned Senior Counsel for M/s.

 S. Arjun Suresh for Appellant and Mr.G. Masilamani, learned Senior

 counsel for Mr. D. Balaraman for respondents. 5/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 5. In support of the Appellant's contentions, Mr.Yashod

 Vardhan, learned Senior Counsel drew the attention of this Court to the

 subject Bank Guarantee dated 29.12.2010 and would submit as follows; a) It is an unconditional Bank Guarantee; b) On demand, without delay and demur and without

 reference to the contractor(respondents), the Bank will have to

 deliver the money required by the Appellant (Employer)

 immediately on demand; c) No notice is also required to be given by the Bank

 to the contractor (respondents) prior to encashment of the Bank

 Guarantee by the Appellant; d) The Bank Guarantee being an unconditional one,

 unless and until the respondents establish egregious fraud and

 irretrievable injustice, an injunction cannot be granted from

 invocation/ encashment of the Bank Guarantee. The

 respondents have not established fraud against the Appellant

 and have also not suffered irretrievable injustice. 6/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 6. Mr.Yashod Vardhan, learned Senior Counsel then drew the

 attention of this Court to the “Taking over certificates” issued by the

 Appellant in favour of the respondents in respect of particulars of the work

 performed by the respondents. He would point out that it is clear from the

 “Taking over certificates” that the respondents have committed defects in

 the execution of the project and there were also minor outstanding works

 to be completed by the respondents. He also drew the attention of this

 Court to the various defects pointed out by the Appellant to the

 respondents in the performance of the project. 7. Mr.Yashod Vardhan, learned Senior Counsel, then drew the

 attention of this Court to the letter dated 06.07.2020 issued by the

 Appellant to the respondents intimating them that they have defaulted on

 certain key obligations under the contract and intimating them that failure

 to adhere to the completion schedules and failure to complete / fulfill

 certain pending obligations under the contract within a reasonable time,

 the Appellant would be constrained to invoke the Bank Guarantee in terms 7/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 of Clause 4.2 of General Conditions of the Contract (G.C.C.). 8. Mr.Yashod Vardhan, learned Senior Counsel would submit

 that several letters of demand were sent by the Appellant to the

 respondents calling upon them to adhere to the terms of the contract and

 adhere to the completion schedules. 9. Mr.Yashod Vardhan, learned Senior Counsel then drew the

 attention of this Court to the Bank Guarantee invocation letter dated

 06.07.2020 issued by the Appellant to IDBI Bank Ltd, seeking to invoke

 the Bank Guarantee dated 29.12.2010 for a sum of Rs.117,51,07,500/-. He

 also drew the attention of this Court to the e-mail dated 07.07.2020

 received from IDBI Bank to the Appellant requesting the Appellant to give

 the details of the damages suffered by the Appellant on account of the

 defects and shortcomings of the respondents under the contract. 10. Mr.Yashod Vardhan, learned Senior Counsel also drew the

 attention of this Court to the reply dated 07.07.2020 sent by the Appellant 8/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 to the Bank intimating them that the demand for encashment of Bank

 Guarantee is on account of shortcomings attributable to the contractor

 (respondents) in the performance of the contract and for indemnification

 of the same. 11. Mr.Yashod Vardhan, learned Senior Counsel would submit

 that being an unconditional Bank Guarantee and having satisfied the terms

 and conditions of the Bank Guarantee by giving reasons for invocation,

 the Bank is unconditionally obligated itself to permit encashment of the

 Bank Guarantee in favour of the Appellant. 12. Mr.Yashod Vardhan, learned Senior Counsel drew the

 attention of this Court to the Affidavit filed in support of the application

 filed by the respondents under Section 17 of the Arbitration and

 Conciliation Act before the Arbitral Tribunal seeking for injunction from

 encashment of Bank Guarantee and would submit that excepting for

 making vague and bald allegations of egregious fraud and irretrievable

 injustice, the respondents have not established fraud or irretrievable 9/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 injustice to enable them to get an order of injunction restraining

 encashment of Bank Guarantee. 13. In support of his submissions, Mr.Yashod Vardhan, learned

 Senior Counsel drew the attention of this Court to the following

 authorities; a) BSES Ltd. (Now Reliance Energy Ltd.) v. Fenner India Ltd reported in (2006) 2 SCC 728; b) Mahatma Gandhi Sahakra Sakkare Karkhane v. National

 Heavy Engg. Coop. Ltd. and Anr reported in (2007) 6 SCC 470; c) Himadri Chemicals Industries Ltd. v. Coal Tar Refining Co. reported in (2007) 8 SCC 110; d) Standard Chartered Bank Ltd. v. M/s. Heavy Engineering

 Corporation Ltd. and Another reported in (2020) 13 SCC 574. 14. Per Contra, Mr.G. Masilamani, learned Senior Counsel for

 the respondents would submit that the claim of the Appellant is an 10/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 afterthought and a speculative one. He would submit that at the time of

 the invocation of Bank Guarantee on 06.07.2020, the Appellant has not

 indicated to the Bank the actual loss in terms of money suffered by them.

 He would submit that only in the Counter Affidavit filed in the Section 9 application filed before the learned Single Judge of this Court after the

 invocation of Bank Guarantee, the Appellant has arbitrarily estimated the

 loss at Rs.900 crores without any supporting evidence in its counter

 affidavit filed in the said Section 9 application. He drew the attention of

 this Court to the performance Security Guarantee dated 29.12.2010 issued

 by IDBI Bank Ltd and in particular he referred to Clause 5 and Clause 6

 contained therein and would submit that the term ''Indemnify'' means

 compensation and therefore even without crystallisation of the actual

 amount of compensation, the Appellant has invoked the Bank Guarantee

 by their letter dated 06.07.2020 which is a clear case of fraud and will

 amount to irretrievable injustice caused to the respondents. He also drew

 the attention of this Court to the “Taking over certificates” issued by the

 Appellant in favour of the respondents and would submit that the

 respondents have completed the project as per the schedule and have also 11/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 handed over the same to the Appellant who is now generating substantial

 revenue after completion of the project by the respondents. Learned

 Senior Counsel for the respondents drew the attention of this Court to the

 Bank Guarantee invocation letter dated 06.07.2020 sent by the Appellant

 to the Bank for invoking the Bank Guarantee and would submit that even

 though the terms and conditions of the performance Security Guarantee

 dated 29.12.2010 makes it clear that the Appellant can invoke the Bank

 Guarantee only after intimating the Bank the defects or shortcomings of

 the respondents(contractor), the Appellant has invoked the Bank

 Guarantee by a bald and vague letter without even crystallizing /

 quantifying the alleged losses suffered by them. According to him, the

 Appellant has not satisfied the legal requirements for invocation of Bank

 Guarantee and therefore, the Bank was right in requesting the Appellant by

 their e-mail dated 07.07.2020 to give details and particulars of the defects

 or shortcomings committed by the respondents under the contract with the

 Appellant. The Learned Senior Counsel would submit that even without

 giving the correct particulars and without estimation of loss, the Appellant

 has invoked the Bank Guarantee on 06.07.2020 which is a clear case of 12/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 fraud and will amount to irretrievable harm/ injustice caused to the

 respondents. Learned Senior Counsel for the respondents also drew the

 attention of this Court to Clause 6(b) of the Bank Guarantee deed

 executed by the Bank and would submit that as per the said Clause, since

 the works have been substantially completed by the respondents, which

 has been duly certified by the Appellant as seen from the “Taking over

 certificates”, the demand for 7.5%( full Bank Guarantee Amount) of the

 total value of the contract shall cause irreparable harm/injustice to the

 Respondents. He would submit that such a claim is an egregious,

 fraudulent and a deceptive one. He would further submit that the defect

 liability period of the respondents ends only on 08.02.2021 and even

 before the expiry of the said period, the Appellant has fraudulently

 invoked the Bank Guarantee on 06.07.2020. 15. Learned Senior Counsel for the respondents also submitted

 that subsequent to the declaration of Covid-19 as a Pandemic by the

 World Health Organisation on 11.03.2020, the Ministry of Finance (MOF),

 Government of India announced economic stimulus packages of Rs.20 13/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 lakh crores to stimulate economy and to save various business sectors

 from financial crisis. He would further submit that the Ministry of

 Finance has issued an Office Memorandum dated 13.05.2020 stating that

 the Government Agency or department may return the performance Bank

 Guarantee to a contractor as is equal to the proportion of works completed

 by the contractor to the total value of works. In these circumstances,

 he would submit that the invocation of the Bank Guarantee by the

 Appellant to the tune of Rs.117.5 crores that too for the completed work

 (the appellant took over possession off U-AA-01 on 24.05.2018 – Corridor

 – II and 09.02.2018 – Corridor – I), it would have adverse effect and cause

 irretrievable harm / injustice or irreparable loss to the respondents. 16. Learned Senior Counsel for the respondents then drew the

 attention of this Court to the impugned order and would submit that the

 Arbitral Tribunal has rightly granted an order of injunction under Section

 17 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act restraining the Appellant from

 encashing the Bank Guarantee. 14/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 17. Mr.G. Masilamani, learned Senior Counsel would further

 submit that the discretion exercised by the Arbitral Tribunal under the

 impugned order has been exercised judiciously on sound legal principles

 and therefore this Court under Section 37 of the Arbitration and

 Conciliation Act cannot interfere with the impugned order. He would

 submit that the respondents have made out a prima-facie case and the

 balance of convenience is also in their favour and irreparable injury will

 be caused to them if the injunction is not granted from encashment of

 Bank Guarantee. In support of his submissions learned Senior Counsel

 drew the attention of this Court to the following authorities : a) Standard Chartered Bank Ltd. Vs. Heavy

 Engineering Corporation Ltd. and Another reported in (2019)

 SCC Online SC 1638; b) Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd. Vs. State of Bihar reported in (1999) 8 SCC 436; c) M/s. GammonOJSC – Mosmetrostroy JV Vs. M/s. Chennai Metro Rail Ltd reported in (2015) SCC Online Mad 15/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 8193; d) M/s/ Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. Vs. M/s. GammonOJSC – Mosmetrostroy JV reported in OSA Nos.192,

 193 & 194 of 2015; e) Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. Vs. Smt. Raj Kumari &

 Others reported in (2007) 12 SCC 768; f) Mohinder Singh Gill Vs. The Chief Election

 Commissioner, New Delhi reported in (1978) 1 SCC 405; g) M/s. Texmaco Rail Engineers Ltd Vs. M/s. Chennai

 Metro Rail Ltd reported in O.A. Nos. 25 and 27 of 2021; h) Olympia Opaline Flat Owners Association Vs.

 Olympia Infratech reported in (2021) SCC Online Mad 5310; i) P. Krishnan Vs. M. Ramachandran and Another reported in (2021) SCC Online Mad 5130. Discussion : c) Under the “Taking over certificates”, the Appellant

 has not mentioned the value of the balance work to be done by the

 respondents in terms of money. In the “Taking over certificates”,

 the Appellant has also confirmed that substantial part of the work

 for which “Taking over certificates” were issued have been

 completed by the respondents. d) In the invocation of the Bank Guarantee letter dated

 06.07.2020 issued by the Appellant to IDBI Bank seeking

 invocation of Bank Guarantee given by the respondents, the

 Appellant has not mentioned the value of the loss suffered by them

 on account of the alleged breach of contract committed by the

 respondents. Even after the requests made by IDBI Bank in their

 reply dated 07.07.2020, the Appellant has not informed IDBI Bank

 the details of the actual losses suffered by them for the purpose of

 invoking the Bank Guarantee. The actual nature of the defects /

 deficiencies or shortcomings in the work of the respondents have

 also not been disclosed though the appellant has verbatim 18/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 reproduced the sentence “shortcomings attributable to the

 contractor in the performance of contract and for indemnification

 of the same” though the said verbatim reproduction was also made

 only after the reply dated 07.07.2020 sent by IDBI Bank e) The performance Bank Guarantee for Rs.117.5

 crores (7.5% of the total value of the contract) which is the subject

 matter of this appeal was executed on 29.10.2010, which has been

 kept alive by the respondents periodically till date. The date of

 invocation of the Bank Guarantee by the Appellant is on

 06.07.2020 after ten years and by that time substantial part of the

 work may have been completed by the respondents. This Court can

 take judicial notice of the same. 20. Under the terms and conditions of the Bank Guarantee,

 dated 29.12.2010, the Bank is obligated to pay the Appellant (Beneficiary)

 to the extent of Rs.117,51,75,000/- based upon a written order from the

 Appellant to indemnify the Appellant towards damages suffered by them 19/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 resulting from any defects or shortcomings of the respondents (contractor)

 or the debts they may have incurred to any parties involved in the contract

 between the Appellant and the respondents. Clause 5 of the Bank

 guarantee dated 29.12.2010 which is the relevant clause reads as follows :- 21. By invoking the aforementioned clause, the Appellant

 sought for the invocation of the Bank Guarantee by its letter dated

 06.07.2020 which was received by IDBI Bank Limited on 07.07.2020.

 The invocation of the Bank Guarantee letter dated 06.07.2020 reads as

 follows :- 07.07.2020 requested the Appellant to specifically mention the amount

 sought to be encashed under the Bank Guarantee and the reasons for the

 invocation. The Appellant responded to the said letter of the bank on the

 same day i.e., on 07.07.2020 stating that the entire Bank Guarantee of

 Rs.117,51,07,500/- may be encashed on account of the shortcomings

 attributable to the respondents (Contractor) in the performance of the

 contract. The letters of the bank dated 07.07.2020 and the response dated

 07.07.2020 received from the Appellant are re-produced hereunder :- Though the deficiencies have been pointed out, the actual value of the

 balance work to be done by the respondents for carrying out the defects /

 deficiencies have not been indicated by the Appellant in any of the letters

 to the respondents. 25. Clause 6(b) of the Bank Guarantee dated 29.12.2010

 which is the subject matter of this appeal reads as follows : 26. As seen from Clause 6(b) of the Bank Guarantee, once

 “Taking over certificates” have been issued a new Bank Guarantee can

 also be substituted for 2.5% of the contract price in lieu of the existing

 Bank Guarantee which is the subject matter of this appeal for 7.5% of the

 contract price. It is the case of the respondents that substantial work has

 been completed under the contract and therefore, the value of the Bank

 Guarantee has to be reduced to 2.5% of the contract value instead of 7.5%.

 However, the Appellant has invoked the Bank Guarantee which was given

 by the respondents for 7.5% of the contract value without even

 crystallizing its claim against the respondents. Whether, the Bank

 Guarantee value has to be reduced to 2.5% or whether it has to remain at

 7.5% of the contract value will have to be decided in the arbitration. 27. Proportionality also constitutes a special equity exception

 against invocation or encashment of unconditional Bank Guarantee. In the

 case on hand, the total contract value is INR 1566,81,00,000 and the

 subject Bank Guarantee was given for 7.5% of the contract value for 25/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 Rs.117,51,07,500. The case of the respondents is that they have not

 committed breach of contract and it is only the Appellant who have

 committed breach of contract, for which they have initiated arbitration

 against the Appellant. Even without crystallizing its claim against the

 respondents, the Appellant has invoked the Bank Guarantee. In case, in

 the final decision of the Arbitral Tribunal, it is found that the respondents

 do not owe any money to the Appellant or if it is found that the

 respondents are liable to pay only a much lesser sum than the Bank

 Guarantee value, which is Rs.117.5 crores, it would amount to

 irretrievable injustice. Since the Bank Guarantee amount is huge,

 proportionality of the claim will certainly play a role in deciding as to

 whether injunction can be granted against the invocation of Bank

 Guarantee. This Court is of the considered view that proportionality is

 also one of the special equities falling within the principle of

 “irretrievable injustice” for the purpose of granting an order of injunction

 from invocation of Bank Guarantee. In case, the Appellant is allowed to

 encash the Bank Guarantee for Rs.117.5 Crores and later on it is found by

 the Arbitral Tribunal that no money is due by the respondents to the 26/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 Appellant or a much lesser money is due by the respondents when

 compared to the Bank Guarantee value, the respondents will find it

 difficult to recover the unjust enrichment made by the Appellant as the

 amount involved is a huge sum. A balancing act will have to be done in

 this case as admittedly the Appellant has not crystallized its losses and

 there is no break-up details given by it for its alleged losses and there is

 also no prima-facie evidence to show that the respondents owe the

 Appellant the Bank Guarantee value. In the case on hand, the Arbitral

 Tribunal has rightly applied the test of balance of convenience and has

 granted the order of injunction restraining the Appellant from invoking the

 Bank Guarantee and at the same time protected the interest of the

 Appellant too by directing the respondents to keep the Bank Guarantee

 alive till the disposal of the Arbitration. 28. Only in the counter affidavit filed by the Appellant in the Section 9 application filed by the respondents before a learned Single

 Judge of this Court much later to the invocation of the Bank Guarantee,

 the Appellant's have revealed that Rs.900 crores is the value of the loss 27/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 suffered by them due to the alleged breach of contract committed by the

 respondents. The break-up details of alleged losses amounting to Rs.900

 crores have also not been disclosed by the Appellant in the counter

 affidavit filed by them in the Section 9 application filed by the respondents

 seeking for an injunction restraining the Appellants from encashing the

 Bank Guarantee. 29. The respondents have pleaded egregious fraud and

 irretrievable injustice in the application filed by them under Section 17 of

 the Arbitration and Conciliation Act before the Arbitral Tribunal.

 According to them, they have not committed any breach of contract and

 they have delivered possession of the project sites to the Appellant on

 completion and the Appellant is also getting benefit of the works done by

 the respondents and the Metro rail is in operation generating substantial

 revenue to the Appellant. 30. Admittedly, till date, no counter claim has also not been

 made by the Appellant against the respondents before the Arbitral Tribunal 28/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 for the purpose of recovering the alleged losses from the respondents on

 account of the alleged breach of contract though the learned Senior

 Counsel for the Appellant would submit that the Appellant will be making

 a counter claim soon. 31. Bank Guarantees are instruments primarily used by

 business entities to strengthen and/or secure an obligation under their

 contract. The party who requests that the guarantee is to be issued applies

 to its bank for a bank guarantee to be issued in favor of the beneficiary, i.e,

 the party who will receive the guarantee. Bank guarantees provide better

 negotiating position in business conclusions and helps in securing own

 claims and performance of the other party to the transaction. Generally,

 bank guarantees can be classified into two types; a conditional bank

 guarantee and an unconditional bank guarantee. For invoking a

 conditional bank guarantee, it is mandatory that the conditions specified

 for invocation of such a guarantee are met and only then the guarantee can

 be encashed. On the other hand, for invocation of unconditional
 guarantee no specific conditions are required to be satisfied. As 29/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 long as the invocation itself is legal, the bank is bound to
 honour such an invocation. 32. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Himadri Chemicals Industries Ltd. vs. Coal Tar Refining
 Company reported in (2007) 8 SCC 110 has collated
 principles developed over a period of time with respect to
 granting of injunction against invocation of bank guarantees
 which are as follows: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 d) The Courts should be slow in granting
 an order of injunction to restrain the realization of a
 Bank Guarantee or a Letter of Credit. e) Since a Bank Guarantee or a Letter of
 Credit is an independent and a separate contract
 and is absolute in nature, the existence of any
 dispute between the parties to the contract is not a
 ground for issuing an order of injunction to restrain
 enforcement of Bank Guarantees or Letters of
 Credit. f) Fraud of an egregious nature which
 would vitiate the very foundation of such a Bank
 Guarantee or Letter of Credit and the
 beneficiary seeks to take advantage of the
 situation. g) Allowing encashment of an
 unconditional Bank Guarantee or a Letter of
 Credit would result in irretrievable harm or
 injustice to one of the parties concerned. In addition to fraud and irretrievable harm, the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court, in the case of Hindustan Construction vs State
 of Bihar reported in (1999) 8 SCC 436 further stated that an
 unconditional bank guarantee could also be injuncted when – 31/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 a) If the unconditional bank guarantee itself
 imposed specific conditions on the party invoking
 the bank guarantee, by making reference to the
 principal contract, then these conditions would have
 to be fulfilled before the unconditional bank
 guarantee could be invoked. b) Unconditional bank guarantees being
 independent contracts in themselves, would have to
 be invoked in accordance with the terms of the Bank
 Guarantee. In that case matter, the Guarantee terms
 stated that the guarantee could be invoked by the
 Chief Engineer, and an invocation of the same by
 the Executive Engineer was held to be unlawful. 33. In Standard Chartered Bank Ltd. Vs. Heavy

 Engineering Corp. reported in (2019) SCC Online SC 1638, the Hon'ble

 Supreme has also followed the decision in Hindustan Construction Co

 Ltd. Vs. State of Bihar reported in (1999) 8 SCC 436 case, referred to

 supra and held that the invocation of the bank guarantee will have to be in

 accordance with the terms of the Bank Guarantee. 34. From the aforementioned decisions, it is clear that

 injunction can be granted from invocation of bank guarantee only when 32/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 any of the following conditions are satisfied : 35. Under the impugned order, the Arbitral Tribunal has given

 sound and justifiable reasons for allowing the application filed by the

 respondents under Section 17 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act

 seeking for injunction restraining the Appellant from invoking the Bank

 Guarantee. The reasons given by the Arbitral Tribunal for allowing the

 application under Section 17 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act are as 33/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 follows :- The respondents while seriously disputing the above contention of the

 Appellant submitted that there are enough evidence to disprove the

 allegations of the Appellant. d) The invocation of the bank guarantee was made admittedly, 34/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 when the defects liability period was in force and there were

 correspondences relating to the rectification of works between the

 Appellant and the respondents. The respondents have also submitted that

 they were carrying out the defect rectification work and they are also

 currently available at the project site. In none of the correspondence

 between the Appellant and the respondents prior to the invocation of the

 bank guarantee, the Appellant has not indicated the actual loss suffered by

 them due to the alleged breach of contract committed by the respondents. e) The alleged defects committed by the respondents is not

 reflected in the Bank Guarantee invocation letter issued by the Appellant

 dated 06.07.2020. The alleged loss of Rs.900 crores to the Appellant was

 raised only in the counter affidavit filed before the High court in the Section 9 application filed by the respondents. f) Even according to the Appellant, it is only expected to

 incur loss for the next 120 years (i.e. 7.5 crores per year x 120 years).

 Even presuming the Appellant would incur Rs.7.5 crores per year, there is 35/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 no reason to invoke the entire amount at this stage itself. 36. After recording the aforementioned reasons, the Arbitral

 Tribunal has directed the respondents to keep the bank guarantee alive

 without prejudice to the respondents rights. The Arbitral Tribunal has

 also recorded the statement of respondents that apart from the subject bank

 guarantee the respondents have provided retention money bank

 guarantees to the tune of Rs.44 Crores which is available with the

 Appellant. 37. After recording the aforementioned statement of the

 respondents, the Arbitral Tribunal has observed that since the rights of the

 respondents have to be adequately protected, the injunction from invoking

 Bank Guarantee by the Appellant has to be granted. The Arbitral Tribunal

 has directed the respondents to keep the performance Bank Guarantee

 dated 30.12.2020 for a sum of Rs.1,17,51,07,500/- alive by extending the

 validity of said Bank Guarantee periodically until the disposal of the

 Arbitral proceedings pending before the Arbitral Tribunal. 36/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 38. The reasons given by the Arbitral Tribunal for allowing

 the application filed by the respondents under Section 17 of the Arbitration

 and Conciliation Act are sound and justifiable and legally valid. The relief

 under Section 17 of the Arbitration and Conciliation is a discretionary

 relief. If the said relief is granted by the Arbitral Tribunal by giving sound

 and justifiable reasons in accordance with law, this Court under Section 37 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, cannot interfere with an interim

 order of an Arbitral Tribunal. 39. The case of the respondents will certainly fall under the

 category of “irretrievable injustice” in case the Bank Guarantee is allowed

 to be encashed by the Appellant. The Bank Guarantee amount is for a

 substantial sum of Rs.117.5 crores, which is a very huge sum and in case

 on the final adjudication by the Arbitral Tribunal it is found that the

 respondents do not owe any money to the Appellant or owes only a much

 lesser sum when compared to the Bank Guarantee value, the respondents

 will be put to irretrievable injustice if the Bank Guarantee has been 37/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 encashed as it would seriously deplete their capital reserves and will result

 in liquidity crisis seriously affecting their regular business. There is also a

 possibility of the Appellant gaining unjust enrichment in case the bank

 guarantee is encashed. Therefore, only after the final adjudication of the

 arbitral claim, it can be found that as to who owes money and by how

 much. 40. The respondents have made out a prima facie case and the

 balance of convenience is also in their favour and irreparable loss will be

 caused to them, in case an Arbitral Award is passed wherein, it has been

 found that the respondents do not owe any money to the Appellant or they

 owe much lesser sum when compared to the Bank Guarantee value. Only

 after the respondents have satisfied the legal requirements for grant of

 injunction, the Arbitral Tribunal has rightly allowed the application filed

 by the respondents under Section 17 of the Arbitration and Conciliation

 Act, restraining the Appellant from invoking /encashing the Bank

 Guarantee. Further, when the Arbitration has to be completed in a time

 bound manner under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and that 38/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 too when the Arbitral Tribunal has directed the respondents to keep the

 Bank Guarantee alive till the completion of the Arbitral proceedings, no

 prejudice will be caused to the Appellant since the Arbitral proceedings

 has to be anyway disposed of expeditiously. 41. Admittedly, when the Bank Guarantee was invoked by the

 Appellant on 06.07.2020, the defect liability period under the contract was

 in its validity period which means it was the responsibility of the

 respondents to rectify the defects in the commissioning of the project till

 the expiry of the defect liability period. The defect liability period ended

 only on 08.02.2021, whereas the Bank Guarantee was invoked by the

 Appellant on 06.07.2020 itself. It is an admitted fact only during the

 Covid pandemic time, the Appellant invoked the Bank Guarantee i.e.,

 06.07.2020. The respondents have also relied upon the stimulus packages

 introduced by the Government of India with regard to the Bank

 Guarantees and has submitted that if the stimulus packages are applied, the

 Bank Guarantee cannot be invoked by the Appellant during the lock down

 period. All these factors will have to be examined only in the main 39/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 Arbitral claim and only then the Arbitral Tribunal can decide as to who is

 liable and by how much. 42. For the foregoing reasons, this Court is of the considered

 view that there is no merit in this appeal. However, it is made clear that as

 directed by the Arbitral Tribunal, the respondents shall keep the Bank

 Guarantee alive till the disposal of the arbitration. The renewal of the

 Bank Guarantee shall always be done by the respondents fifteen days in

 advance before the expiry date and in case it is not done, the Appellant

 shall invoke / encash the Bank Guarantee without notice to the

 respondents. Accordingly, this Civil Miscellaneous Appeal is dismissed.

 No costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petition is closed. 01.11.2021

 vsi2
 Index:Yes/No
 Speaking Order: Yes/No 40/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C.M.A.No.1773 of 2021 ABDUL QUDDHOSE, J. vsi2

 Pre-delivery judgment in C.M.A.No. 1773 of 2021 and C.M.P. No. 9469 of 2021 01 .11.2021 41/41 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis