Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:5654 )

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MMO No. 155 of 2023

 . Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge. Whether approved for reporting?1 No

 For the Petitioner : M/s B.L. Soni, Nitin Soni & Sunil
 Gautam, Advocates. For Respondent No.1 : Ms. Ayushi Negi, Deputy Advocate
 General. Respondent No.2 proceeded against

 ex parte vide order dated 18.04.2023. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The petitioner has filed the present petition for

 quashing the criminal proceedings including the order taking

 cognizance dated 24.05.2013 in Criminal Case No.2707/2013 titled State of H.P versus Sunder and anr. for the commission of offences

 punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120B of the

 Indian Penal Code (in short ' IPC ') pending in the Court of learned 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. Judicial Magistrate First Class, Kullu, H.P. (Parties shall hereinafter

be referred to in the same manner as they were arrayed before the

 . learned Trial Court for convenience). 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

petition are that the informant made a complaint to the SHO,

Police Station, Kullu asserting that Sunder (since deceased)

represented himself as Sunder Biri son of Rikhi Ram and entered

into an agreement to sell the land measuring 0-13-0 bighas dated

21.09.2011 with the complainant for sale consideration of

₹5,20,000/-. He showed the land adjacent to the link road

Gharakar to Bijli Mahadev. He represented himself as Sunder Biri

whereas Sunder and Biri are two different persons. Biri is the

brother of Sunder. Both the brothers owned the land in equal

shares. He obtained money from the informant and failed to

execute the sale deed. He practised fraud by representing himself

as Sunder Biri, whereas he was only Sunder. He also showed the

land at a different location. Hence, it was prayed that the action be

taken against him. 3. The police registered the FIR and conducted the

investigation. The police found that the present petitioner Bhim ::: Downloaded on - 23/07/2024 20:32:11 :::CIS 3 Singh had identified Sunder Lal as Sunder Biri. Petitioner and

Sunder Lal had entered into a conspiracy and got the false

 . documents prepared; therefore, the Police added Sections 467 , 471 ,

and 120B of IPC. Budh Ram Numberdar had also identified Sunder

Lal but he has expired. The signatures of the present petitioner

were found to be similar to his disputed signatures. Hence, the

charge sheet was filed before the Court. 4. Being aggrieved from the filing of the charge sheet, the

present petition has been filed asserting that the informant had

filed a civil suit against Sunder for the recovery of ₹2,30,000/-. He

had not asserted in the plaint that the petitioner-Bhim Singh had

wrongly identified Sunder as Sunder Biri. The petitioner was

examined as PW-6 by the informant and he stated that Sunder had

introduced himself as Sunder Biri. The police recorded the

statement of the informant that the petitioner was instrumental in

getting the deed executed. The allegations made in the complaint

show the existence of a civil dispute between the parties; hence, the

present petition. 5. The petition is opposed by filing a status report

reproducing the contents of the FIR and the details of the ::: Downloaded on - 23/07/2024 20:32:11 :::CIS 4 investigation. It was asserted that the challan was filed before the

Court and is listed for consideration of charge. . 6. I have heard Mr B.L. Soni, Nitin Soni & Mr Sunil

Gautam, learned counsel for the petitioner and Ms Ayushi Negi,

learned Deputy Advocate General, for respondent No.1/State. 7. Mr. B.L. Soni, learned counsel for the petitioner

submitted that the dispute between the parties is civil. A civil suit

was filed between the parties, in which it was never asserted that

the petitioner had identified Sunder Lal as Sunder Biri and this was

a wrong identification. Hence, the criminal case should not be used

as a weapon of harassment. He relied upon the judgments of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vishal Noble Singh versus State of UP in

SLP Criminal No.2389 of 2023 decided on 24.01.2024 and Naresh

Kumar and anr. versus the State of Karnataka, 2024 INSC 196 in

support of his submission. 8. Ms Ayushi Negi, learned Deputy Advocate General, for

the respondent No.1/State submitted that the allegations in the FIR

constitute the commission of offences punishable under Sections

467 , 468 and 471 of IPC; therefore, she prayed that the present

petition be dismissed. 9. I have given considerable thought to the submissions at

the bar and have gone through the records carefully. . 10. The law regarding the exercise of jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. was considered by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in A.M. Mohan v. State , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 339, wherein it

was observed: - in the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value

 and accepted in their entirety, do not prima facie constitute
 any offence or make out the case alleged against the
 accused. For this purpose, the complaint has to be examined as a
 whole, but without examining the merits of the allegations.
 Neither a detailed inquiry nor a meticulous analysis of the
 material nor an assessment of the reliability or

 genuineness of the allegations in the complaint is
 warranted while examining prayer for quashing a
 complaint. (ii) A complaint may also be quashed where it is a clear

 abuse of the process of the court, as when the criminal
 proceeding is found to have been initiated with mala
 fides/malice for wreaking vengeance or to cause harm, or
 where the allegations are absurd and inherently

 improbable. (iii) The power to quash shall not, however, be used to stifle
 or scuttle a legitimate prosecution. The power should be

 used sparingly and with abundant caution. (iv) The complaint is not required to verbatim reproduce
 the legal ingredients of the offence alleged. If the necessary
 factual foundation is laid in the complaint, merely on the

 ground that a few ingredients have not been stated in
 detail, the proceedings should not be quashed. Quashing of
 the complaint is warranted only where the complaint is so
 bereft of even the basic facts which are necessary for
 making out the offence. (v.) A given set of facts may make out: (a) purely a civil
 wrong; (b) purely a criminal offence; or (c) a civil wrong as
 also a criminal offence. A commercial transaction or a
 contractual dispute, apart from furnishing a cause of action
 for seeking remedy in civil law, may also involve a criminal
 offence. As the nature and scope of a civil proceeding are ::: Downloaded on - 23/07/2024 20:32:11 :::CIS 7 different from a criminal proceeding, the mere fact that the
 complaint relates to a commercial transaction or breach of
 contract, for which a civil remedy is available or has been

 . availed, is not by itself a ground to quash the criminal

 proceedings. The test is whether the allegations in the
 complaint disclose a criminal offence or not. 11. Similar is the judgment in Maneesha Yadav v. State of U.P. ,

2024 SCC OnLine SC 643, wherein it was held: - 12. We may gainfully refer to the following observations of this

 Court in the case of State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal1992 Supp (1) SCC
 335: 1990 INSC 363: and make out a case against the accused. (4) Where the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a
 cognizable offence but constitute only a non-cognizable
 offence, no investigation is permitted by a police officer

 without an order of a Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint
 are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of

 which no prudent person can ever reach a just
 conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding
 against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any

 of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under
 which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the
 institution and continuance of the proceedings and/or
 where there is a specific provision in the Code or the

 concerned Act, providing efficacious redress for the
 grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended

 with mala fide and/or where the proceeding is

 maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for
 wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to
 spite him due to private and personal grudge. 103. We also give a note of caution to the effect that the
 power of quashing a criminal proceeding should be
 exercised very sparingly and with circumspection and
 that too in the rarest of rare cases; that the court will not
 be justified in embarking upon an enquiry as to the
 reliability or genuineness or otherwise of the allegations
 made in the FIR or the complaint and that the
 extraordinary or inherent powers do not confer an
 arbitrary jurisdiction on the court to act according to its
 whim or caprice." 12. The present petition has to be considered as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. . 13. It was found after the investigation that the petitioner

had identified Sunder Lal as Sunder Biri. No person existed by the

name of Sunder Biri. Sunder and Biri are two different persons and

a misrepresentation was made regarding Sunder Lal being Sunder

Biri. Section 464 of IPC defines making of false document as

making, signing, sealing or executing a document with the

intention of causing it to be believed that such document was

made, signed, sealed, executed by or by the authority of a person by

whom or by whose authority, he knew it was not made, signed,

sealed, executed or affixed. 14. In the present case, the document was signed by Sunder

Biri by whom, it was not signed because no person existed by the

name of Sunder Biri; therefore, the act of Sunder Lal by putting

signatures as Sunder Biri amounted to making a false document. The petitioner identified him as Sunder Biri and he facilitated the

making of false document by Sunder. 15. It was submitted that there is no person called Sunder

Biri and there cannot be any forgery by executing a document in ::: Downloaded on - 23/07/2024 20:32:11 :::CIS 10 the name of a fictitious person. This is not acceptable. Explanation

II provides that making a false document in the name of a fictitious

 . person intending it to be believed that the document was made by a

real person may amount to forgery. Thus, even the making of a

document in the name of a fictitious person attracts the provisions

of Section 464 of IPC. 16. There can be no dispute with the proposition of law that

the civil dispute cannot be turned into criminal proceedings,

however, it does not mean that no civil action can give rise to a

criminal action. Professor Glanville Williams explained in his

celebrated book Learning the Law (Tenth Edition Steven and Sons)

that the facts by themselves cannot determine civil or criminal

liability. The same set of facts may give rise to criminal or civil

liability. The distinction between the two is not the nature of the

act but the nature of proceedings that are taken to seek the

redressal. It was observed: 17. The Hon'ble Supreme Court also held in Randheer Singh

v. State of U.P. , (2021) 14 SCC 626: 2021 SCC OnLine SC 942, that a

given set of facts may make out a civil wrong as well as the criminal ::: Downloaded on - 23/07/2024 20:32:11 :::CIS 12 offence and mere availability of civil remedies is no ground to

quash the criminal proceedings. It was observed: 18. This position was reiterated in V.R. Dalal v. Yougendra

Naranji Thakkar , (2008) 15 SCC 625, wherein it was observed: - 19. Hence, the FIR cannot be quashed because a civil suit

was filed by the informant. 20. In Naresh Kumar (Supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court

held that no offences were made out as the facts only disclosed the

existence of a civil liability. There was no cheating but a mere

breach of obligation, In the present case, the allegations in the FIR

show that a fictitious person was identified as a real person by the

petitioner, hence, he had assisted in making a false document; thus, the judgment in Naresh Kumar (supra) will not assist the

petitioner. . 21. In Vishal Noble Singh (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held that no offence was made out and the continuation of

the proceedings was unjustified. In the present case, the offence is

made out and the petitioner cannot derive any advantage from the

cited judgment. 22. It was submitted that the informant failed to appear

before this Court which is sufficient to quash the proceedings. Reliance was placed upon para 23 of the judgment of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Vishal Noble Singh (supra). 23. In the present case, the allegations in the FIR constitute

the commission of a cognizable offence and it is difficult to see how

any justification by the informant would have added to the

contents of the FIR and the cited judgment will not assist the

petitioner. 24. Consequently, the FIR cannot be quashed; hence, the

present petition fails and the same is dismissed. 25. The observations made hereinbefore shall remain

confined to the disposal of the main petition and will have no

 . bearing, whatsoever, on the merits of the case. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge

 23rd July, 2024
 (Saurav Pathania) ::: Downloaded on - 23/07/2024 20:32:11 :::CIS