CHANDRA DHARI SINGH, J. 1. The instant matters have been filed by the parties against Order of
 the learned Special Judge dated 23rd October, 2018 and 29th October,
 2018 whereby the learned Special Judge, CBI-01, North West, Rohini,
 Delhi, had passed the Order on charge against the accused, present
 petitioners, in RC-S18-2006-E0010 filed by the Central Bureau of
 Investigation (hereinafter "CBI"). BRIEF BACKGROUND OF THE MATTER
 a. A cooperative Society was registered on 5th November, 1982,
 namely, Om Cooperative Group Housing Society Limited (hereinafter
 "the Society") vide registration No. 480 (GH) having its registered office
 at 2/827, First Floor, Part-I, Sarai Julena, Okhla Road, Delhi. On 22nd
 April, 1988, the said Society was put under liquidation. b. On 21st November, 2002, an application was made for revival of
 the Society and vide Order dated 10th January, 2003 the Society was
 revived by Mr. Narayan Diwakar, the then Registrar Cooperative
 Societies, (hereinafter "RCS"), also the Accused No. 1 in the FIR.
 c. The Society, thereafter, applied for allotment of land from the
 Delhi Development Authority (hereinafter "DDA") and submitted a list of
 115 members for the same and on the basis of the list, the case of the
 Society was processed by the DDA for allotment. d. As per the first Offer-Cum-Demand Letter dated 3rd February,
 2003, the Society was given the option to either choose between Dhirpur
 and Dwarka area for allotment of land and after paying 35% of the land
 cost on the basis of provisional pre-determined rate.
 e. A savings account No. 35150 was opened at the Corporation Bank
 in the name of the Society by Mr. Prem Bhutani, Accused No. 10, with
 Mr. Yashpal, Accused No. 12, as his co-sharer for making the payment in
 the name of the Society and a pay order of Rs. 1,11,02,400/- and of Rs.
 4,00,000/- was issued favouring DDA. f. DDA issued Offer Letter dated 3rd February, 2003 and Allotment
 Letter dated 31st December, 2003 as well as the Possession Letters dated
 9th September, 2004 and 11th October, 2004 and the Society was allotted
 and given possession of a plot of land measuring 6501.52 sq. meters at
 Plot No. 12, Sector-19, Dwarka, New Delhi by DDA on 15th October,
 2004. g. It was alleged that Mr. S.P. Saxena, Accused No. 7, sold the
 Society to Mr. Rohit Bhuchar, Accused No. 5 for a sum of Rs. 1,15,05,430/- by way of 13 cheques in the name of the Society towards
 the 35% cost. h. A divisional bench of this Court in Writ Petition (C) No.
 10066/2004 directed the CBI for investigation into allotment of over 90
 societies, including Om Cooperative Group Housing Society, with
 direction to the CBI on the aspect of "unholy alliance and connivance
 between builder mafia and the officers working in the Office of Registrar
 Co-operative Societies, DDA and the Societies and fraudulent revival of
 defunct societies." Pursuant to the Order and directions, a preliminary
 inquiry No. PE SIJ 2006 E 0001 dated 9th March, 2006 was registered in
 CBI EOU-VI and subsequently, the CBI filed a chargesheet against 17
 accused, in the case against Om CGHS, including the present petitioners,
 Mr. Rohit Bhuchar, Accused No. 5, Mr. Yashpal Sachdeva, Accused No.
 12, Mr. Sushil Chhabra, Accused No. 13, and Mr. Sudhir Kumar
 Marwaha, Accused No. 15, under Section 120B / 420 / 468 / 471 of the
 Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter " IPC ") read with Section 13 (2) / 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (hereinafter " PC Act ")
 for allegedly entering into criminal conspiracy for reviving the said
 Society as well as allotment of the land by DDA on the basis of forged
 and fake documents. i. On 29th October, 2018 the learned Special Judge passed the
 impugned Order whereby charges were framed against the petitioners.
 j. Thereafter, the petitioners preferred the instant petition to challenge
 the said Order. SUBMISSIONS 2. Mr. Mohit Mathur, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of
 the Accused No. 15, Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha in Crl MC 1590/2019,
 submitted that the impugned Order framing charges against Accused
 No.15 is erroneous as he had no role in the alleged criminal conspiracy,
 had only been roped in to be a part of the alleged criminal conspiracy and
 had joined the Society only on 20th February, 2003, that is much later to
 the revival of Society on 10th January, 2003. The charges have been
 framed against him under Section 468/471/420 and Section 120B of the
 IPC, despite the fact that he did not take any part in the course of some
 transactions as under the requirement of Section 223 of the Cr.P.C. 3. It is submitted that Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha could not have
 been involved in the requirement of meeting of mind for criminal
 conspiracy in so far as he became the member of the Society after the
 object of such alleged conspiracy, that is the revival of the Society had
 already been achieved and concluded. There was neither any meeting of
 mind nor was Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha involved in any manner with
 the public servants. Learned senior counsel relied upon the case Indira
 Dalal vs. State of Haryana , (2015) 11 SCC 31, wherein the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court held that once the object of the conspiracy has been
 achieved the subsequent act, even if unlawful, would not make the
 accused a part pf that conspiracy. He further relied upon John Pandian
 vs. State , (2010) 14 SCC 129, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 observed that there must be a meeting of minds resulting in timely
 decision taken by the conspirators regarding the commission of offence,
 to submit that it had not been alleged that there was meeting of minds of Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 5 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha with any of the other accused persons. It was
 further observed in the judgment that the essence of the offence of
 conspiracy is neither in doing or completion, nor even in the attempt to do
 a particular unlawful act, but in forming of the scheme or agreement
 between the parties. It is submitted that there was no iota of evidence to
 establish that Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha had any dishonest intention or
 knowledge as to what all transpired before the RCS or in the process of
 revival. 4. It is further submitted that there were no insinuations by the
 prosecution that Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha had cheated nor was it able
 to attribute any allegation of forgery against him, owing also to the fact
 that he had joined the Society after its revival and could not have been
 involved in the conspiracy leading to the said revival as well as the
 allotment by the DDA. Further, while he was the President of the society,
 he signed on various documents and meeting proceedings in good faith
 relying on the part of the accountant of the society not having the
 knowledge that whether the records of 115 members of the society for
 allotment from DDA were bearing forged signatures. Further, even
 assuming, though not admitting, that he had the knowledge of the
 conspiracy and its object, it has been reiterated in a plethora of
 judgements of this Court that mere knowledge of not sufficient to bring
 home the charge of conspiracy. Learned counsel relied upon the judgment
 of Esher Singh vs State of A.P. , (2004) 11 SCC 585, where the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court has stated that mere knowledge or even discussion, of the
 plan is not, per say, enough to establish the offence of conspiracy. It was
 further observed that it was also held that to bring home the charge of Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 6 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 conspiracy, it must be shown that when all the circumstances are
 comprehensively taken together, should conclusively indicate towards the
 meeting of minds of the accused persons. A few bits here and a few bits
 there on which the prosecution relied could not have form the basis of
 trying the accused persons for the offence of conspiracy. 5. It is submitted that the offence of cheating could not have been
 attributed towards Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha, since, neither were there
 any allegations against him nor any of the ingredients of cheating were
 met. Reliance has been placed on A.P. Narang vs. CBI , (2011) SCC
 OnLine Del 212 to submit that the offence of cheating was not made out
 against him. 6. On the charge of forgery, it is submitted by the learned senior
 counsel that the offence of alleged forgery has been completed prior to
 the enrolment of Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha as a member of the society.
 The learned Special Judge erred in framing the charges of forgery against
 the instant petitioner. 7. The impugned Order of the learned Special Judge is also liable to
 be set aside as the it did not consider that the Government Examiner of
 Questioned Documents ("hereinafter GEQD") Report was not admissible
 in evidence for the reason that specimen signatures of Mr. Sudhir Kumar
 Marwaha were not obtained under the directions of the concerned
 Magistrate. 8. Although Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha was a close associate to Mr.
 Rohit Bhuchar, Accused No. 5, against whom the charges of conspiracy
 and forgery have been framed, that did not mean that Mr. Sudhir Kumar
 Marwaha had also committed that said acts. It is submitted that since the Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 7 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 Accused No. 10 and 11, Mr. Prem Bhutani and Mr. Anil Bhutani,
 respectively, who were persons managing the funds as well as its
 movement, had opened the bank account in the name of the Society for
 carrying out the payment, and made payment to DDA in lieu of the
 allotment of land at subsidized price, have already been discharged by the
 learned Special Judge since, no criminal conspiracy could be established
 against them, hence, the question of Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha being
 charged under the above-mentioned offences does not even arise. 9. It is submitted on behalf of Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha, in light of
 the judgements of Dilawar Balu Kurane vs. State of Maharashtra,
 (2000) 2 SCC 135, and P. Vijayan vs. State of Kerala, AIR (2010) SC
 663, that at the time of framing of charges, the concerned judge has to
 satisfy itself that prima-facie offences have been made out on the basis of
 the documents and it is a settled principle of law that the Judge, while
 framing of charge, must consider the wide probabilities and total effect of
 the evidence and documents produced before it, however, he must not
 conduct a roving enquiry into the pros and cons of the matter and weigh
 the evidence as he was conducting a trial. 10. Hence, in light of the submissions made above, the impugned
 Order is liable to be set aside and Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha should be
 discharged in the instant case because there are no sufficient grounds for
 framing charges against him. 11. Mr. N. Hariharan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of
 Accused No. 5, Mr. Rohit Bhuchar, in Crl. Rev. P. 1160/2018, submitted
 that his case is similar to Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha as he too, had
 joined the Society on 20th February, 2003, after the revival of the Society Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 8 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 had already taken place. Further, even though he was a member since
 February, 2003, he paid the required amount of Rs. 3,01,010/- towards
 the membership of the Society only in September, 2003, prior to which he
 was not involved in the activities of the Society. He was elected as the
 Secretary of the Society from 25th July, 2004 to 31st December, 2006 and
 is a bona fide member of the Society with no undue benefit accruing to
 him. 12. The chargesheet records the fact that Mr. Rohit Bhuchar paid his
 membership fees on 6th September, 2003 and as per the Delhi
 Cooperative Societies Rules, 1973, (hereinafter "DCS Rules") a person
 acquires membership rights under Rule 30 (4) only upon payment of the
 admission fee. Till September, 2003 all objects of the alleged criminal
 conspiracy had already been achieved. 13. It is submitted that the learned Special Judge was wrong in framing
 charges against Mr. Rohit Bhuchar as he had no role in the alleged
 criminal conspiracy or any involvement with the public officials in the
 revival of the Society, neither was he involved in the activities of the
 Society. It has been wrongly observed by the learned Special Judge that
 he had has signed various undated proceedings as the Treasurer of the
 Society and that he used to forge resignations and cash vouchers as
 genuine. It is submitted that Mr. Rohit Bhuchar was not, at any point of
 time, the Treasurer of the Society and hence, the observation of the
 learned Special Judge was patently wrong. Furthermore, there is no
 material in the charge sheet to the effect that the writing on resignations
 or cash vouchers was his. Even the GEQD Report has nowhere linked
 Mr. Rohit Bhuchar to the alleged resignations and cash vouchers. 14. Furthermore, the learned Special Judge has referred to the
 statements of PW98, Mr. Satish Gupta, and PW99, Mr. Subhash Chander
 Mahajan, however, none of them have made any allegation against Mr.
 Rohit Bhuchar in their statements recorded under Section 161 of the
 Cr.P.C. As per the statement of PW98, it was clear that Mr. Rohit
 Bhuchar only provided financial help to the Society by arranging an
 amount of Rs 1.15 Crores through cheques alongwith Rs. 1.50 Lakhs in
 cash towards miscellaneous and administrative charges. It is submitted
 that PW98, in his statement under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. stated that
 he was approached by Mr. Rohit Bhuchar who requested him to arrange
 memberships for 25-30 persons in any CGHS, in furtherance of which, he
 met with Mr. S.P. Saxena, who told him about Om CGHS. He came to
 know from Mr. S.P. Saxena that due to financial problems society
 members were unable to pay the remaining amount to be paid towards the
 land cost to be made to DDA. It was stated by PW98 that Mr. S.P. Saxena
 desired that Mr. Rohit Bhuchar paid Rs. 1.15 Crores through cheques and
 a sum of Rs. 1.50 lakhs or Rs. 1.75 lakhs in case. Mr. Rohit Bhuchar
 arranged the amount on his own account from his relatives, friends, and
 his partnership firm Suruchi Enterprises. After receiving the said amount
 through cheques and cash, Mr. S.P. Saxena handed over the records of the
 Society to Mr. Rohit Bhuchar. It is submitted that the amount was paid
 towards the society and not to Mr. S.P. Saxena and it has been wrongly
 observed by the learned Special Judge that Mr. Rohit Bhuchar had taken
 control over the management and control of the Society. Hence, the only
 role attributed to Mr. Rohit Bhuchar was of arranging funds by way of
 loans. 15. It is submitted that during Managing Committee meetings held on
 various dates between 2004-2005, resignations of members were
 accepted and some new members were inducted. It is submitted that
 proper procedure was followed in conducting the meetings of the
 Managing Committee in accordance with the DCS Act, 1972 as well as
 DCS Rules and the registered bye-laws of the Society. In fact, some of
 the resignations from the members of society were made when Mr. Rohit
 Bhuchar was not even holding office and further, inductions of the family
 members and friends of Mr. Rohit Bhuchar cannot be coined as criminal
 conspiracy on his behalf since, even the family members or friends
 sought membership in their individual capacity for which there existed no
 mens rea. 16. It is submitted that Mr. Rohit Bhuchar never took control and
 management of the Society from Mr. S.P. Saxena by payment of sum of
 Rs. 1.15 Crores. Such amount was paid to the Society by way of 13
 cheques and not to Mr. S.P. Saxena, as wrongly observed by the learned
 Special Judge. The chargesheet alleged that he had purchased the Society,
 however, there is no provision for purchase or sale of a Society under the
 DCS Rules as well as the registered byelaws of the Society. 17. Learned senior counsel relied upon the judgement of State vs.
 Navjot Sandhu , (2005) 11 SCC 600, to submit that the alleged accused in
 a conspiracy who committed the conspiracy by indulging in various overt
 acts will be individually liable for those offences in addition to being
 liable for criminal conspiracy, by the non-participant conspirators cannot
 be found guilty of the offence(s) committed by the other conspirators. It
 was further observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as under: 108. Thus, a distinction was maintained between the
 conspiracy and the offences committed pursuant to the
 conspiracy. It is only in order to prove the existence of
 conspiracy and the parties to the conspiracy, that a rule of
 evidence is enacted in Section 10 based on the principle of
 agency. We may recall that Section 10 of the Evidence Act
 provides that anything said, done or written by one of the
 conspirators in reference to the common intention of all of
 them can be proved as a relevant fact as against each of the
 conspirators, subject to the condition prescribed in the
 opening part of the section. Thus, the evidence which is in
 the nature of hearsay is made admissible on the principle
 that there is mutual agency amongst the conspirators. It is
 in the context of Section 10 that the relevant observations
 were made in the first Caveeshar case and Nalini case at p. 517. In the former case, Jagannadhadas, J., after referring
 to the passage in Roscoe's Criminal Evidence (16th Edn.)
 that "an overt act committed by any one of the conspirators
 is sufficient, on the general principles of agency, to make it
 the act of all", observed that
 "the principle underlying the reception of evidence under Section 10 of the Evidence Act of the statements, acts and
 writings of one co-conspirator as against the other is on the
 theory of agency" (SCR p. 205}. It was not held in those cases that the same principle of
 agency should be stretched either to make all the Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 12 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 conspirators liable for the offensive acts done pursuant to
 the conspiracy, irrespective of their role and participation
 in the ultimate offensive acts. Whether or not the
 conspirators will be liable for substantive offences other
 than the conspiracy and, if so, to what extent and what
 punishment has to be given for the conspiracy and the other
 offences committed pursuant thereto, depend on the specific
 scheme and provisions of the penal law. The offence cannot
 be spelt out by applying the principle of agency if the
 statute does not say so. For instance, in the case of Section
 34 IPC, the constructive liability for the crime is
 specifically fastened on each of those who participate in the
 crime in furtherance of the common intention. But Section
 120-B does not convey that idea." 18. Reliance was further placed on State (through Superintendent of
 Police) vs. Nalini & Ors., (1999) 5 SCC 253, wherein it was held as
 under:- 19. Learned senior counsel has also relied upon the judgment of
 Natwarlal Sakarlal Mody vs The State of Bombay, 1961 SCC OnLine
 SC 1, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court with reference to provision of
 conspiracy observed that:- 20. Further in Esher Singh vs State of A.P. (Supra), the following
 observations were made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as under:- 21. Reliance has also been placed upon L.K. Advani vs Central
 Bureau of Investigation , 1997 SCC OnLine Del 382, wherein a Co-
 ordinate Bench of this Court held as under: 22. Learned senior counsel also relied upon the judgment of Union of
 India vs Prafulla Kumar Samal , (1979) 3 SCC 4, to elaborate upon the
 principles laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court on questions to be
 considered while framing of charges to submit that as such the learned
 Judge need not conduct a roving enquiry while framing of charges and
 only prima facie consideration needs to be given. 23. It is submitted that for the reasons stated above the impugned
 Order framing charge against Mr. Rohit Bhuchar is patently illegal and
 suffers from manifest error and infirmity and hence, is liable to be set
 aside. 24. Mr. P.S. Singal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of Accused
 No. 12, Mr. Yashpal Sachdeva and Accused No. 13, Mr. Sushil Chhabra,
 in W.P. (Crl) 1608/2019, submitted that both the petitioners had joined Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 16 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 the Society after the object of conspiracy had already been achieved and
 the Society had been revived. It is submitted that the alleged conspiracy
 was two-fold, for revival of the Society and for obtaining DDA land at a
 cheaper rate. And hence, the conspiracy ended upon the receipt of land by
 taking advantage of the Society that had become defunct, however, no
 benefit accrued to the petitioners in the same and they were not part of the
 said conspiracy. 25. It is submitted that the learned Special Judge failed to consider that
 once a freezing list of members is sent to the DDA, there is no role of the
 officials of RCS and the Society left to be played in allotment of the land. 26. It is further, submitted that at the stage of framing of charge the
 Court has power to shift and weigh the evidence to find out the prima
 facie case against the accused persons. In the present case, however, there
 is no evidence connecting Mr. Yashpal Sachdeva and Mr. Sushil Chhabra
 with the alleged offences. Moreover, the charges against the
 petitioners/accused are groundless. 27. There are sufficient provisions under the DCS Rules, for
 prosecution of the accused in relation to the allegations leveled against
 the petitioners and the prosecution under the IPC and the PC Act is bad in
 law. It is submitted that since there is a specific law and a complete
 mechanism to adjudicate upon the allegations made, the application of
 general statute is not permissible in law and hence, the impugned Order is
 liable to be set aside for the reason of it being illegal, erroneous, improper
 and contrary to the facts and law. 28. Per Contra, Mr. Nikhil Goel, learned SPP for the Respondent/CBI
 in all the matters, opposed the instant petitions and submitted that there Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 17 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 are no illegalities or errors in the impugned Order passed by the learned
 Special Judge. The preliminary enquiry by the CBI into the matter of
 allotment of land pertaining to 97 housing societies, as per the Orders of
 a division bench of this Court dated 9th January, 2006 and 13th February,
 2006 in Writ Petition (C) 10066/2004, revealed that officials of RCS
 abused their official position as public servants in criminal conspiracy
 with the private persons, by accepting false and forged documents, and
 allotted land to the societies at much lower price than prevailing in the
 market for construction of residential flats. In light on the above
 discovery, FIR No. RC no. 10(E)/2006/EOU-IV/CBI, was registered
 making out cognizable offences under Section 120B read with Sections
 420 / 468 / 471 of the IPC and Section 13(2) read with 13(l)(d) of the PC
 Act . 29. Moreover, relying upon the judgement of Sajjan Kumar vs.
 Central Bureau of Investigation , 2010 (9) SCC 368, it is submitted that
 at the stage of framing of charge the only requirement to see is whether or
 not 'grave suspicion' regarding the involvement of the accused exists. The
 evaluation of material on record has to be done only to determine
 existence of such suspicion and not to determine the prima facie guilt or
 otherwise of an accused. The material to be analysed at this stage is the
 prosecution material and not the defence of the accused in accordance
 with the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Orissa vs.
 Debendra Nath Padhi , (2005) 1 SCC 568. 30. It is submitted that since, the case involves a charge of conspiracy,
 individual roles in exclusion to the allegation of conspiracy ought not to
 be seen at this stage. This is more so in view of the legal position that Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 18 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 conspiracy can be proved even by inference and all that is required to be
 seen at this stage is whether there is some connecting link or connecting
 factor which exists to show the involvement of the charge sheeted
 accused. The impact of such involvement can only be appreciated upon
 receipt of evidence. It is further submitted that the substance of the
 conspiracy is that at various stages, the accused have conspired to get a
 defunct society registered in the year 1982 revived for the purpose of
 securing a large parcel of land at a concessional rate from DDA. It is
 submitted that the conspiracy does not get limited to the mere revival of
 the society but terminates upon getting possession of 1.5 acres of DDA
 land at a very cheap price and that to for personal use i.e. for profiteering.
 It is not even the defense in the petitions filed that the land so allotted was
 to be used for the original members of the society as registered in 1982.
 The investigation has actually showed that the members of the society
 were changed, on paper, for the sole purpose of completion of record with
 the DDA and the land so allotted has actually gone to the private benefit
 of the accused, it is this conspiracy in respect of which the charges have
 been framed. The second leg of conspiracy began after receipt of offer
 letter dated 3rd February, 2003 from the DDA seeking to allot the land
 admeasuring 6501.52 Sq.mt at plot 12, Sector 19, Dwarka. The
 conspiracy culminated in handing over the offer letter to Mr. Rohit
 Bhuchar, who is a contractor by profession, who ensured that not only the
 35% of the price paid by Mr. Prem Bhutani and All is returned, the
 remaining 65% of the money for the land for paid to the DDA. The 115
 names for whose requirement the DDA had allotted land was slowly Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 19 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 replaced by other members some accused and some witnesses who were
 either related to known to or otherwise dealt with Mr. Rohit Bhuchar. 31. It is submitted that the accused in the FIR entered into the criminal
 conspiracy with fraudulent and dishonest intention to cheat the office of
 RCS and DDA in the matter of revival of the Society and allotment of
 land to Om CGHS Ltd. As a result, the Society was revived vide Order
 dated 10th January, 2003 on the basis of false and forged documents,
 misrepresentation of facts/deception, impersonation and by using the
 false and forged documents as genuine. Moreover, the revival had taken
 place after 14 years of liquidation without removing the defects
 mentioned in the liquidation. Further, the list of members sent to the
 DDA for allotment consisted of non-bona fide members and the same
 was done without getting the pending audit completed as stipulated in the
 revival Order. The same is the testament to approach taken by the RCS in
 reviving the society. 32. The role of Mr. Yashpal Sachdeva and Mr. Sushil Chhabra came
 into being when the payment of 35% of land cost was to be made to the
 DDA. Both were the authorized signatories in the account opened by Mr.
 Prem Bhutani, Accused No. 10. In September, 2003, Mr. S.P. Saxena
 sold the society to Mr. Rohit Bhuchar and thereafter, it was decided that
 the 115 members of the Society were to be ousted in a phased manner and
 new members were to be inducted as per the choice of Mr. Rohit
 Bhuchar. It is submitted that after taking over the society, Mr. Rohit
 Bhuchar made his relatives and friends members and office bearers of the
 society. It is at this stage that he alongwith Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha
 started playing an active role in making new members, arranging funds Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 20 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 and making payments to DDA. Besides, these two persons also used the
 false and forged documents as genuine before RCS office when they
 falsely intimidated about the resignations, enrolment and election etc.
 being the Secretary and President of the society, respectively. 33. It is submitted that in fact the contention on behalf of Mr. Rohit
 Bhuchar that some of the resignations of the members were prior in time
 to his election as an office bearer is false, in so far as he alongwith Mr.
 Ashwani Sharma, Accused No. 8, entered into criminal conspiracy to
 draw backdated proceedings to facilitate him to induct new members on
 his own volition by falsely showing resignations of all 115 members in a
 phased manner. It is submitted that the said resignations bore the
 signatures in the handwriting of officers including Mr. Gokul Chand
 Aggarwal, Accused No. 6 and Mr. Ashwani Sharma. 34. It is submitted that the investigation established that the accused
 public servants as well as the private persons were in criminal conspiracy
 for illegally reviving the Society on the basis of false/forged documents,
 misrepresentation of facts and impersonation by other co-accused
 persons. There were further shortcomings in the procedure of the revival
 of the society. The accused persons did not ensure the existence of the
 society, genuineness of the members and correctness of the documents
 before reviving a defunct society after a long gap of more than 14 years. 35. Learned SPP for the Respondent submitted that it was after
 collecting incriminating evidence that the chargesheet was filed against
 the 17 accused persons, including the petitioners, herein. It is submitted
 that the Order framing charges against the petitioners had been passed by
 the learned Special Judge as per law, and is just and proper. The same Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 21 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 was passed after appreciating the material before it. It is therefore,
 submitted by the learned SPP that the present petitions may be dismissed
 for them being devoid of any merit. ANALYSIS 36. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. I have
 perused the impugned Order dated 23rd October, 2018 as well as 29th
 October, 2018. 37. The instant petitions have been filed by the petitioners in the
 connected matters challenging the Order of the learned Special Judge-
 CBI, by which it had framed charges against the accused, including the
 petitioners herein, of offences punishable under the IPC as well as the PC
 Act . At the very outset it may be pertinent to outline the extent of power
 while framing charges that the concerned Court may exercise.
 PRINCIPLE ON FRAMING OF CHARGES 38. Section 228 of the Cr.P.C. provides for the power of framing
 charge and lays down as under: - 39. As per the aforesaid provision, if a Judge upon consideration of
 record of the case as well as the documents before it, is of the opinion that
 there exists sufficient ground based on which a presumption can be made
 that the accused may have committed an offence, then he shall frame such
 a charge in writing against the accused. Further, to presume that an
 offence may have been committed, the opinion of the Judge for existence
 of a ground for presumption is to be supported by the prima facie material
 on record, upon consideration of which the learned Judge may frame the
 charges against the accused. 40. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter State of Maharashtra
 vs. Som Nath Thapa , (1996) 4 SCC 659 had laid down its observations
 by way of the following test for framing of charge:- 41. Further, in Prafulla Kumar Samal (Supra), the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court laid down the principles regarding the considerations before the
 concerned Court while framing of charges and discharging an accused: - 42. The principle has been reiterated in the judgment of State of M.P.
 v. Mohanlal Soni , (2000) 6 SCC 338, wherein it has been said that:- 43. In State of M.P. v. Rakesh Mishra , (2015) 13 SCC 8, the
 observation mentioned below were provided for:- 44. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Bhawna Bai v. Ghanshyam ,
 (2020) 2 SCC 217, has laid down as under:- 19. At the initial stage of framing of a charge, the
 court is concerned not with proof but with a strong
 suspicion that the accused has committed an offence,
 which, if put to trial, could prove him guilty. All that
 the court has to see is that the material on record
 and the facts would be compatible with the innocence Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 27 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 of the accused or not. The final test of guilt is not to
 be applied at that stage...." 16. After referring to Amit Kapoor [Amit Kapoor v. Ramesh
 Chander , (2012) 9 SCC 460 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 687 : 45. Hence, it can be rightfully said that the extent of appreciating the
 facts and material before the Court concerned while framing of charges is
 limited to prima facie satisfaction of the Court that the accused before it
 may have been involved in the commission of the offences alleged
 against him. As per the abovementioned precedents, it may be reasonable
 to say that the primary document of chargesheet and the accompanying
 material would be sufficient for forming the opinion upon the existence
 of a prima facie involvement on the part of the accused in the
 commission of the offence. The satisfaction of the Court, however, is a
 significant and principal consideration which would find its foundation
 on the material available at the time of framing of the charge, how ever
 simple or elaborate it may be. Further, upon such satisfaction, coupled
 with prima facie appreciation of material on record, the Judge shall also
 record the reasons in a nutshell for passing the Order of charge, whether
 charging or discharging the accused, reflecting the consideration of
 material before it while framing the charges. FINDINGS 46. The next test, henceforth, would reasonably be to assess whether
 the learned Special Judge while passing the impugned Order, acted in
 consonance with the principles discussed above to be followed while
 exercising the power under Section 228 of the Cr.P.C. to find out whether
 there was any illegality or perverseness in the said Order. 47. The relevant portion of the learned Special Judge, with regard to
 the present petitioners is highlighted as under, where the learned Judge
 has appreciated the arguments as well as the material on record to make
 the following observations:- 48. It is true that the conspiracy in question was not limited to
 achieving just the one objective but there were two aims of forming the
 conspiracy. The common objective intended to achieve by the
 conspirators was first, the revival of the society and the second being the
 allotment by the DDA at a subsidized rate. Hence, it may be the case that
 the petitioners were not even a member, let alone a member elect, of the
 society, however, it did not take away the ground for suspicion from them
 that they were involved in the activities of the Society post their
 becoming a member of the Society but prior to achievement of the
 objective of the two-fold conspiracy. Therefore, their role in the
 conspiracy still subsisted until the final object of getting allotment from
 DDA was not achieved. 49. The appointment of Mr. Rohit Bhuchar was also an issue of
 contention, since the minutes of the meeting in which he was inducted as
 a member did not bear the signature of any elected member. It was
 apparent that the documents pertaining to his role and election as a
 Secretary was in fact done fraudulently by fabrication of documents on
 past dates, so as to provide him with the control and management of the Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 32 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 Society, keeping in view that he played a principal role in creating false
 resignations as well as inducted a significant amount of members, who
 were in fact people known to him and thereby creating the list of 115
 members, based on which the Society's request for allotment by DDA
 was processed and was finally granted. 50. The accused Mr. Sudhir Kumar Marwaha was found to be a close
 associate of Mr. Rohit Bhuchar. He even signed upon minutes pertaining
 to the Managing Committee meetings that were held wherein several new
 members of the Society were inducted after showing that the old
 members of the Society had resigned. His role was found in creating the
 list of 115 members, who were infact, fraudulently inducted and which
 also became the primary ground for consideration of the Society for
 allotment of the land by the DDA. 51. As per Mr. Yashpal Sachdeva and Mr. Sushil Chhabra, they played
 a role in opening and then maintaining the accounts of the Society at a
 very early stage of their membership, as they were designated the
 Secretary and Treasurer without having being a member of the Society
 for a significant time. Moreover, a few days later, they were given the
 authority of operating the savings account of the Society, which again
 raised a prima facie suspicion on their intent and their involvement in the
 conspiracy. 52. The learned Special Judge, also considered the GEQD Report
 which made out the case of forgery against the present petitioners and the
 reasoning is found to have no default. The GEQD Report matched
 signatures of some of the accused to those found on the resignations of
 the old members. Although it was argued that the GEQD report was not Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 33 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 in accordance with law for the reason that the signature specimens were
 not obtained by following proper procedure, the argument did not hold
 ground in so far as the Report raised a preliminary suspicion upon the
 accused that there was an involvement of the accused in commission of
 forgery which led to the freezing of 115 members in the Society, on the
 basis of which the Society was allotted land by the DDA. Hence, the
 consideration of the learned Special Judge was also without any error in
 light of the judgement referred in Ravinder Singh @ Dara Singh vs.
 Republic of India , AIR (2011) SCC 1436. 53. In accordance with Section 228 of the Cr.P.C., the keywords to be
 given weightage are "after such consideration", "Judge is of the opinion" d. Against Sudhir Kumar Marwaha, Accused No. 15- Under
 Section 468 read with Section 471 of the IPC for fraudulently, Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 35 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 dishonestly and knowingly creating/forging documents and
 using the fake and fabricated documents as genuine for getting
 land from DDA at subsidized rate, inducting 115 members on
 his own choice by falsely showing resignations of previous 115
 members, forging signature as office bearer on documents, and
 for causing unlawful gain to himself and his co-accused,
 submitting the forged documents for getting the land in the land
 in favour of the Society, for the purposes of cheating the RCS,
 under Section 420 of the IPC and for offences under Section
 120B of the IPC, amongst other reasons. 54. It is evident from the elaborate Order on charge, that the learned
 Special Judge considered, analysed and appreciated the material before it
 and then passed the Order on charge, recording the reasons for the same.
 Learned Special Judge, prima facie satisfied itself on the question of
 whether or not the accused may have committed the offence and upon
 finding the answer to be affirmative, it passed the impugned Order. It is
 found that in the opinion of the learned Special Judge, there existed
 sufficient and preliminary grounds to presume that the accused,
 petitioners herein, were involved in the commission of the offence. The
 present petitioners were found to be part of a bigger conspiracy and they
 each had a role to play which was enough to pass an Order framing
 charge against them at the preliminary stage. SCOPE OF EXTRAORDINARY JURISDICTION 55. Accused Sudhir Kumar Marwaha has preferred to invoke the
 extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C.
 the provision enables the High Courts to make orders which may be Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 36 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 necessary to either, firstly, give effect to any order under this Code, or to
 secondly, prevent abuse of the process of any Court or finally, secure the
 ends of justice. These powers under the provision are beyond the ambit of
 powers otherwise granted to the Court under the Cr.P.C , however, there is
 a limit to exercise of the inherent powers of the Court. For instance, if a
 remedy is available with the petitioner under the Cr.P.C ., then he may not
 choose to take the recourse and seek relief under Section 482 of the
 Cr.P.C. Hence, the power under the Section is innately and highly
 discretionary and therefore, also extremely wide. 56. In Madhu Limaye v. State of Maharashtra , (1977) 4 SCC 551, the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court made the following observations:- 57. In Amit Kapoor v. Ramesh Chander , (2012) 9 SCC 460, Hon'ble
 Supreme Court has observed as reproduced hereunder:- 58. "Section 482 is based upon the maxim quando lex
 aliquid alicui concedit, concedere videtur id sine quo res
 ipsa esse non potest i.e. when the law gives anything to
 anyone, it also gives all those things without which the
 thing itself would be unavoidable. The section confers very
 wide power on the Court to do justice and to ensure that
 the process of the court is not permitted to be abused." 59. In State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal , 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335, the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has dealt with the question of exercise of powers
 under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. and has laid down the principles state
 hereunder:- 60. In light of judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and High
 Court in various cases it has been found that the powers under Section
 482 also have a scope and limit within which the High Courts have to
 exercise their inherent powers. In M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Private
 Limited v. State of Maharashtra , 2021 SCC OnLine SC 315, Hon'ble
 Supreme Court has prescribed that the High Courts while considering
 quashing of FIR need not go into the cognizance of the offence and
 appreciate any evidence. It was further held that under Section 482 the
 orders directing "no coercive steps to be taken..." cannot be passed in a Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 40 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 mechanical way and the High Court shall record reasons for making such
 an observation while passing an interim order and it must indicate the
 application of judicial mind. In case the concerned High Court decides to
 stay an investigation, it has to be passed with circumspection and when it
 finds that an exceptional case is made out for stay of investigation, and it
 has also been observed that the High Court may not interfere with the
 investigation when a cognizable offence is prima facie made out against
 an accused. 61. Hence, it is inferred that the powers under Section 482 of the
 Cr.P.C. are although wide enough for the High Courts to exercise their
 discretion where it is deemed fit for the purpose of securing the ends of
 justice, however, even these powers have fetters and need to be exercised
 with extreme caution and without going into the deep and elaborate
 appreciation of evidence, which may be the matter of trial.
 SCOPE OF REVISIONAL JURISDICTION 62. Mr. Rohit Bhuchar has approached this Court impugning the
 Orders of the learned Special Judge under its revisional jurisdiction. The Cr.P.C makes provision for the High Court to exercise its revisional
 Jurisdiction in furtherance of any proceeding before any inferior Criminal
 Court. The provision under Section 397 of the Cr.P.C unequivocally
 states that the High Court or the Sessions Court which is exercising its
 revisional jurisdiction shall apprise itself solely of the question of
 correctness, legality and propriety of order of the subordinate Court. A
 bare reading of the provision of the Cr.P.C suggests that the Court shall
 limit itself to the findings, sentence or order passed by the subordinate
 Court, against which the Revisionist is seeking relief before the Courts Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 41 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 concerned, and shall not go beyond the analysis and observations made
 by the subordinate court. By extension, a limitation and bar is, hence, set
 out on the scope of the powers that may be exercised by the concerned
 Court under the provision which precludes the Revisional Court to go
 into the enquiry of evidence and submissions made before the subordinate
 Court at the time of passing of the impugned Order, against which the
 revision is sought. 63. Presently, the aforesaid order of the learned Special Judge is under
 challenge before this Court in its revisional jurisdiction as well. The
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has given its findings with regard to the scope of
 powers of the revisional jurisdiction and a five-judge bench of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. vs
 Dilbahar Singh , (2014) 9 SCC 78, held as under: - 64. Further in Amit Kapoor v. Ramesh Chander, (Supra ), it has been
 observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as reproduced under:- This Court, in view of the aforesaid findings and the law laid down by the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court, in its revisional jurisdiction will not proceed into
 the enquiry of the records, documents and other evidence in consideration
 before the learned Special Judge, but shall constrain itself to the findings
 of the learned Special Judge in the impugned order with respect to the
 Accused No. 5, Mr. Rohit Bhuchar. SCOPE OF WRIT JURISDICTION 65. The Accused Mr. Yashpal Sachdeva and Mr. Sushil Chhabra have
 moved this Court under its writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in State v. Navjot
 Sandhu , (2003) 6 SCC 641, has reiterated the principles laid down in Pepsi Foods Ltd. v. Special Judicial Magistrate [(1998) 5 SCC 749, as
 stated under that draw a parallel between the powers granted to the High
 Court under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C and Article 226 and 227 of the
 Constitution of India:- 23. In Waryam Singh v. Amarnath [AIR 1954 SC 215] this
 Court considered the scope of Article 227. It was held that the
 High Court has not only administrative superintendence over
 the subordinate courts and tribunals but it has also the power of
 judicial superintendence. The Court approved the decision of
 the Calcutta High Court in Dalmia Jain Airways
 Ltd. v. Sukumar Mukherjee [AIR 1951 Cal 193 (SB)] where the Signature Not Verified CRL.M.C. 1590/2019 & connected matters Page 45 of 48 Digitally Signed By:DAMINI YADAV Signing Date:04.04.2022 18:53:42 High Court said that the power of superintendence conferred by Article 227 was to be exercised most sparingly and only in
 appropriate cases in order to keep the subordinate courts
 within the bounds of their authority and not for correcting their
 mere errors. The Court said that it was, therefore, a case which
 called for an interference by the Court of the Judicial
 Commissioner and it acted quite properly in doing so. 24. In Bathutmal Raichand Oswal v. Laxmibai R. Tarta [(1975)
 1 SCC 858] this Court again reaffirmed that the power of
 superintendence of the High Court under Article 227 being
 extraordinary was to be exercised most sparingly and only in
 appropriate cases. It said that the High Court could not, while
 exercising jurisdiction under Article 227 , interfere with the
 findings of fact recorded by the subordinate court or tribunal
 and that its function was limited to seeing that the subordinate
 court or tribunal functioned within the limits of its authority and
 that it could not correct mere errors of fact by examining the
 evidence or reappreciating it. The Court further said that the
 jurisdiction under Article 227 could not be exercised, „as the
 cloak of an appeal in disguise. It does not lie in order to bring
 up an order or decision for rehearing of the issues raised in the
 proceedings‟. The Court referred with approval the dictum of
 Morris, L.J. in R. v. Northumberland Compensation Appeal
 Tribunal , ex p Shaw [(1952) 1 All ER 122 : (1952) 1 KB 338
 (CA)] . 25. In Nagendra Nath Bora v. Commr. of Hills Division and
 Appeals [AIR 1958 SC 398] this Court observed as under: