1. The petitioner has approached this Court praying for granting

him anticipatory bail in a case FIR No.32, dated 30.07.2022, registered

under Sections 419 , 420 IPC ( Sections 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B IPC & Sections

66-C , 66-D of the IT Act added lateron), at Police Station Cyber Crime

Rohtak, District Rohtak. 2. Succinctly, the facts of the case are that FIR in the present case

was lodged on the statement of the complainant, namely, Neeru Sharma,

wherein, it was alleged that she got issued a debit card from HDFC Bank to

be sent through Blue Dart Courier. On 25.07.2022, she searched the

customer care number on the Blue Dart site and made a call. However,

thereafter she received a phone call from mobile No.82404-68183 on her

mobile number and the person calling, told his name as Rahul, who said that

he is employee of Blue Dart Courier. She asked him about the delay in

delivering the debit card, then the person asked her to make an online

complaint in that regard and to pay Rs.5/- for online complaint. On his

instructions, she opened the file sent by him and filled the Bank account

details and Paytm UPI password, as was told by him. However, on checking

she found that Rs.4,999/- and Rs.95,000/- were withdrawn from her SBI

account No.10222157081. It was alleged that some unknown person had

 1 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 23-12-2024 22:45:43 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:172206 CRM-M-64953-2024 -2- committed fraud with her by withdrawing Rs.99,999/-. Request was made to

take legal action against the culprit. On the registration of the FIR, the

investigation commenced. Apprehending arrest, the petitioner approached

the Court of learned Additional Sessions Judge, Rohtak praying for grant of

anticipatory bail. However, after hearing both the sides, finding no merit in

the same, learned Court declined the same vide its order dated 25.10.2024.

Aggrieved by the same, the petitioner is before this Court praying for grant

of anticipatory bail. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has vehemently contended

that the petitioner has been falsely implicated in this case. He submits that

neither the petitioner has been named in the FIR nor he has committed any

offence as alleged. He, thus, submits that the petitioner has been arrayed as

an accused on the basis of the disclosure statement made by co-accused

Nitish, who was tried by the trial Court, however, on benefit of doubt, he

was acquitted by the trial Court vide order dated 25.09.2024. He has

submitted that the Investigating Agency has alleged that the mobile number

of the petitioner was used in the offence, however, the mobile number and

Bank account used in commission of offence, are not registered in the name

of the petitioner. He submits that the petitioner is not the beneficiary of the

alleged amount. He submits that in the facts and circumstances of the present

case, there being no prima facie case having been made out against the

petitioner, he deserves to be granted anticipatory bail. 4. Notice of motion. 5. Mr. Tanuj Sharma, AAG, Haryana, accepts notice of behalf of

the State. He has opposed the submissions made by counsel for the

petitioner. He has submitted that the petitioner has played a key role in the

 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 23-12-2024 22:45:43 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:172206 CRM-M-64953-2024 -3- commission of offence. He submits that during the investigation, it has been

found that the Bank accounts used in the offence were linked with the

mobile number of the petitioner and the amount was transferred to the same

account. He submits that the petitioner is at large since the date of

registration of the FIR and thus, there being no merit in the present petition,

the same deserves to be dismissed. 6. After hearing learned counsel for the parties and perusing the

record, it is deciphered that the FIR was registered by the complainant,

wherein, she alleged that by way of Cyber offence, she was duped of an

amount of Rs.99,999/-. It has been found by the Investigating Agency that

from the account of the complainant in the HDFC Bank, money was

transferred in the name of one Sunita in Canera Bank and one Deepak

having bank account in IDBI Bank. Both these accounts were found to have

been opened on the fake and forged documents. These bank accounts were

found to have been linked with the mobile number of the petitioner. Thus,

prima facie complicity of the petitioner has been established during the

investigation. The petitioner is at large since the date of registration of the

FIR. Co-accused, who was acquitted, was arrested and had faced the trial. It

is only on the appreciation of the evidence, the co-accused has been

acquitted by the trial Court. The petitioner cannot taken the benefit of the

same, as he is not at par with the co-accused. 7. For the consideration of anticipatory bail, the statutory

parameters are given under Section 482 (1) & (2) of BNSS which reads as

under:- 8. Hon'ble Supreme Court in State represented by CBI Vs. Anil

Sharma, (1997) 7 SCC 187 has held as under:- 9. Hon'ble Apex Court in plethora of judicial precedents including Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia Vs. State of Punjab , AIR 1980 SC 1632, has time

and again reiterated that while considering the anticipatory bail the Court is

to take into consideration the factors like gravity of offence, chances of

accused tampering with the evidence and probabilities of his fleeing from

justice etc. The Court should be circumspect about the impact of its decision

on the society as well. The anticipatory bail is an extraordinary discretion

which should be exercised in the extraordinary circumstances. 10. Weighing the facts of the case on the anvil of the law settled, it

is apparent that the complicity of the petitioner has been prima facie

established. The investigation is at its threshold. Thus, granting anticipatory

bail to the petitioner at this stage would scuttle the ongoing investigation. 11. In view of the facts and circumstances of the present case, this

Court is of the opinion that the petitioner does not qualify for exercising the

extraordinary power by this Court in his favour. Resultantly, the petition

being devoid of any merit is hereby dismissed. 12. Nothing said herein shall be construed as an expression of

opinion on the merits of the case.