Aggrieved by the award of the Central Government

Industrial Tribunal-cum-Labour Court ('Labour Court for

short) directing the petitioner to reinstate the workman into

service with the benefit of continuity of service and other

consequential benefits with 50% backwages, the Chairman,

Cauvery Kalpathtaru Grameena Bank ('the Bank' for short) is

before this Court. 2. The parties herein are referred to as the

'workman' and the 'Bank' for the sake of convenience. 3. Workman joined the services of the Bank as a

messenger-cum-sweeper in the year 1983, while in service,

the workman has been placed under suspension, charge

sheet was issued against the workman for commission of

misconduct relating to certain irregularities observed under

Advances Portfolio of Bank by involving one S. Pradeep, got

many cheques used and money was fraudulently withdrawn

from the customers account, enquiry proceedings were -3- initiated, enquiry officer submitted findings holding the

workman guilty of the charges leveled against him, the

Disciplinary Authority imposed the punishment of "removal

from service which shall not be a disqualification for future

employment". 4. The workman preferred appeal against the order

of punishment before the Appellate Authority, the Appellate

Authority rejected the appeal confirming the punishment

imposed by the Disciplinary Authority. Dispute was raised by

the workman before the Labour Court, the Labour Court

passed an order directing the petitioner-bank to reinstate the

workman into service with the benefit of continuity of service

and 50% backwages and other benefits. 5. Heard Sri T.P. Muttanna, learned counsel

appearing for the petitioner-Bank and Sri C.N.

Mahadeshwaran, learned counsel for the respondent-

workman. 6. Learned counsel for the Bank would urge the

following grounds: 7. In support of his contentions, learned counsel has

placed the following decisions: 8. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the

respondent-workman would urge the following grounds: 9. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties,

the only point that evolves for consideration is: 10. This Court has carefully considered the rival

contentions urged by the learned counsel for the parties and

perused the material on record. 11. The workman was charged with eight charges of

serious irregularities/acts of misconduct alleged to have been

committed by the workman during his incumbency as a

messenger-cum-sweeper between 04.06.2000 and

10.06.2006. CHARGE NO.1 is in two portion: CHARGE NO.4: CHARGE NO.5: Fixed Deposit Receipt Fixed Deposit Receipt Fixed Receipt
Books obtained from Head Books Handed Over to Book Retained by
 Office the Branch the Official
 89901 to 89950 89901 to 89950
 89951 to 90000 89951 to 90000
 90001 to 90050 90001 to 90050
 90051 to 90100 90051 to 90100 - 12 - CHARGE NO.6: clearly envisages that no officer or employee borrow or otherwise
place himself under pecuniary obligation to a money lender except
accepting from a relative of personal friend a purely temporary
loan of a small amount free of interest and he shall so manage his
private affairs to avoid indebtedness, he has paced himself under
pecuniary obligation to M/s Sriram City Union Finance Limited and
in token of evidencing of your borrowings from M/s Sriram City
Union Finance Limited that he has issued the cheques referred
under charge No.6. CHARGE NO.8

 Whereas in terms of the extant instructions of the Bank,
loans and advances are considered by the Branches to the eligible
applicants/borrowers on request and on executing required set of
documents at the Branch, although the applicant Smt. Suma W/o
Nagamallu of Nellur Village bas not approached Chandakawadi
Branch and sought for the loans as also not executed any
document, Chandakarwadi Branch, Cauvery Kalpatharu Grameena
Bank has sanctioned and released a Deposit Loan of Rs.13000/-on
21.05.2004 against Savings Certificate Receipt No.301042 (New
SCR No.301094) dated 25.02.2004 for Rs.17500/- falling due on
25.08.2006 in the name of Smt.H.M.Suma -vide DPL No.2273
through falsification of documents by obtaining the forged
signatures of Smt. Suma W/o Nagamallu. Further the above
deposit loan has been repaid by you on 15.01.2005 Through a
credit challan of Rs.13690/- duly signed by woekman -vide
Receipt Scroll No.6. - 14 - 12. The bank examined three witnesses and produced

documents in support of the charges. The workman, in his

letter dated 25.01.2007, admitted the mistakes committed

by him, the Enquiry Officer conducted the enquiry as per the

procedure and complying with the principles of natural

justice and based on the oral and documentary evidence,

held that the workman was guilty of charges and the

Disciplinary Authority, considering the gravity of the charges

proved, imposed the punishment of removal from service,

which is not a disqualification for future employment. 13. The Labour Court, held the enquiry to be fair and

proper, and thus the interference by the Labour Court to the

finding of the enquiry officer was very limited. The Apex

Court in the case of The workmen of M/s. Firestone Tyre

and Rubber Co. of India (Pvt.) Ltd. Vs. The

Management and others5 (Firestone Tyre) held as follows: before it. It is open to the employer to adduce
evidence for the first time justifying his action, and it
is open to the employee to adduce evidence contra.

(5) The effect of an employer not holding an enquiry
is that the Tribunal would not have to consider only
whether there was a prima facie case. On the other
hand, the issue about the, merits of the impugned
order of dismissal or discharge is at large before the
Tribunal and the latter, on the evidence adduced
before it, has to decide for itself whether the
misconduct alleged is proved. In such cases, the point
about the exercise of managerial functions does not
arise at all. A case of defective enquiry stands on the
same footing as no enquiry. (6) The Tribunal gets jurisdiction to consider the
evidence placed before it for the first time in
justification of the action taken only, if no enquiry has
been held or after the enquiry conducted by an
employer is found to be defective. (7) It has never been recognised that the Tribunal
should straightaway, without anything more, direct
reinstatement of a dismissed or discharged employee,
once it is found that no domestic enquiry has been
held or the said enquiry is found to be defective. - 17 - (8) An employer, who wants to avail himself of the
 opportunity of adducing evidence for the first time
 before the Tribunal to justify his, action, should ask
 for it at the appropriate stage. If such an opportunity
 is asked for, the Tribunal has no power to refuse. The
 giving of an opportunity to an employer to adduce
 evidence for the first time before the Tribunal is in the
 interest of both the management and the employee
 and to enable the Tribunal itself to be satisfied about
 the alleged misconduct. (9) Once the misconduct is proved either in the
 enquiry conducted by an employer or by the evidence
 placed before a Tribunal for the first time, punishment
 imposed cannot be interfered with by the Tribunal
 except in cases where the punishment is so harsh as
 to suggest victimisation. (10) In a particular case, after setting aside the order
 of dismissal, whether a workman should be reinstated
 or paid compensation is, as held by this Court in The
 Management of Panitole Tea Estate v. The Workmen ,
 1971-1 SCC 742 = (AIR 1971 SC 2171) within the
 judicial decision of a Labour Court or Tribunal" 14. Prior to insertion of Section 11A, the proposition

was where a proper domestic enquiry had been held before - 18 - passing the order of punishment, the Tribunal had no power

to interfere with the findings on the misconduct recorded in

the domestic enquiry, unless it was vitiated by one or the

other infirmities as pointed out in the case of Indian Iron &

Steel Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen6 . The enquiry if held

proper by the employer, the Labour Court/Tribunal had to

consider whether there was perversity in the findings of the

Enquiry Officer and the Tribunal/Labour Court had no

jurisdiction to sit in judgment over the decision of the

employer as an appellate authority. The interference by the

Labour Court to the decision of the employer would be

justified only when the findings arrived in the enquiry are

perverse, or management is guilty of victimization, unfair

labour practice or mala fide as held in Firestone Tyre 's case

stated supra. 15. The Enquiry Officer and the Disciplinary Authority

have analyzed the entire oral and documentary evidence,

charge Nos.1, 2 and 3 are of a serious nature. The charges 6 1958 SCR 667 - 19 - leveled against the workman as entrusted with work of

bringing stationery and security items such as Cheque books

from their head office on 03.01.2005, workman allegedly

withheld one Cheque book having 10 leaves bearing number

082111 to 082120 with ulterior motive, made fraudulent

entries in the savings bank account No. 2679 of one

Shivanajamma as having issued the said Cheque leaves to

her, forged the initials of the supervisor, account holder and

made use of the said Cheque leaves for defrauding the bank,

The workman by involving one S Pradeep messenger cum

sweeper of Arkalwadi branch got 6 cheques filled out of 10 as

mentioned above and fraudulently withdrew total amount of

Rs. 40,000/- (Rupees Forty Thousand Only) by forging the

signature of the Account holder misappropriated the same

Smt.Shivananjamma and workman has issued Cheque No.

81363 dated 07.08.2005 and Cheque No.81364 dated

07.09.2005 for Rs.1410/- respectively on his account without

maintaining sufficient balances in the account resulting in

dishonor of two Cheques issued by him, workman committed - 20 - acts of misconduct in violation of Service Rules of the Bank

by placing himself under pecuniary obligation by way of

borrowing with M/s Sriram City Union Finance Limited. He

fraudulently without the knowledge of the depositor Smt. H

M Suma, by falsification of documents, availed deposit loan

of Rs.13,000/- on 21-05-2004 and also repaid the same by

crediting the loan account on 15- 01-2005 and thus

misappropriated the customer's funds and committed

fraudulent acts. 16. The workman, denied about the letter having

addressed by him to the bank and took up a contention that

the alleged letter of admitting the charges was obtained by

fraud and coercion. The workman other then merely stating

that the letter was obtained by playing fraud, the workman

has not come forward with any specific assertion as to how

fraud and coercion had been implicated upon him. The

workman does not dispute about the signature on the letter

and as per Ex.P15 the fingerprint opinion has clearly stated

that the handwriting on the letter and the admitted signature - 21 - of the workman are one and the same. The workman has

failed to establish there was coercion or fraud played upon

the workman for making such a confession. On the other

hand the evidence let-in by the workman neither suggests

any bias or prejudice on part of the Enquiry Officer against

the employee, such as unfair treatment, discriminatory

demands, predetermined stands, nor would it have indicated

victimization, as bias can undermine the fairness and

impartiality of the enquiry process, leading to unjust

outcomes, however, in the instant case, there is no such

pleading by the workman. The reliance placed by the

learned counsel for the respondent in the case of Roopsingh

Negi stated supra to contend that the so called confession/

admission itself was not sufficient to hold the workman guilty

of misconduct and the documentary evidence has to be

proved by examining the witnesses, the decision in

Roopsingh Negi case is distinguishable as in the said case

the appellant there in had confessed to the police that he

was involved in stealing of bank draft book and the appellant - 22 - there in was forced to sign on the said confession, as he was

tortured in the police station, in the instant case the written

document / letter is not disputed by the workman and no

circumstances has been spoken to by the workman and the

workman has failed to discharge the burden casted upon him

to prove that there was fraud and coercion upon the

workman. 17. The Labour Court holds that the findings of the

Enquiry Officer suffer from perversity and that there is

victimization on the part of the employer, the perversity as

found by the Labour Court does not mention the

contradictions or errors, nor has it been explained reasonably

as to why the evidence presented by the witnesses during

the enquiry, would indicate any perversity, nor has the

Labour Court assigned any reasons about any inconsistency

in the witness testimony, contradictory to the documentary

evidence or illogical conclusion drawn by the Enquiry Officer.

On the other hand, the Enquiry Officer considered the

relevant evidence that is crucial, selectively considered the - 23 - evidence that supports the material on records, and held that

the workman is guilty of misconduct. 18. The fairness of the enquiry, having been held to

be fair and proper after affording sufficient opportunity to the

employee to present his case, cannot raise any doubts about

the integrity of the process. The Labour Court, other than

merely saying there is perversity in the findings and there is

victimization, is totally silent as to what is the perversity and

what is the victimization by the bank. The punishment

imposed by the employer is for serious misconduct, which

can be nothing but an imposition of removal from service,

and at no stretch of imagination, it can be held that the

imposition of punishment is disproportionate to the alleged

misconduct, nor is there any ground urged by the workman

that in identical circumstances of alleged misconduct more

severe than what is typically imposed in similar cases, it

would have raised a suspicion of victimization. The

punishment imposed was commensurate with the gravity of - 24 - the offence and consistent with the employer's discipline

policy. 19. In the departmental enquiry, the standard of

proof is only the preponderance of probabilities and in the

case of massive fraud, there can be nothing but an

imposition of dismissal, as done in the instant case. The

findings recorded by the Enquiry Officer cannot be said to be

that, based on no evidence and the Disciplinary Authority has

taken into consideration all the relevant materials and then

concluded that the charges have been duly proved against

the delinquent. 20. In Ramesh Chandra Sharma v. Punjab

National Bank & Another7 stated supra, the Apex Court

has held at paragraph No.31 as under: Objective facts which would lead to a definite
 inference of apprehension in the mind of the
 management, regarding trustworthiness or reliability
 of the employee, must be alleged and proved." Reliance in this regard has also been placed by
 the High Court on the decision of State Bank of
 India Vs. Bela Bagch [AIR 2005 SC 3272]." 21. The Apex Court in Kanhaiyalal Agrawal and

others Vs. Factory Manager, Gwalior Sugar Co. Ltd.,8 has held that the test for loss of confidence to find out as to

whether there was a bonafide loss of confidence in the

employee observing that, (i) the workman who is holding the

post of trust and confidence; (ii) by abusing such position, he

commits act which results in forfeiting the same and (iii) to

continue him in service/ establishment would be

embarrassing and inconvenient to the employer, or would be

detrimental to the disciplinary security of the establishment.

Loss of confidence cannot be subjective, based upon the 8 (2001) 9 SCC 609 - 27 - mind of the Management and once the confidence is lost, the

workman cannot be continued in the employment. 22. The most relevant document is the letter

addressed by the workman to the bank, the said document

has been admitted by the workman, wherein in categorical

terms, the workman has stated as to the misconduct

committed by him and also about remitting the said amount

to the bank. The Labour Court has totally misdirected itself

in considering the entire evidence and replaced the order of

the Disciplinary Authority by its own, which calls for

interference by this Court. 23. The other judgments placed reliance by the

respondent counsel are distinguishable and not applicable to

the present facts and circumstances of the case.

Accordingly, for the foregoing reasons, the point framed for

consideration is answered accordingly and resultantly, this

Court pass the following: