These Criminal Petitions, under Section 482 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure, 1973, are filed by 'Coda Payments India Private

Limited' (hereinafter referred to as 'petitioner-Company'), seeking to

quash the orders, dated 01.09.2021, passed in Crl.M.P.Nos.656 and

657 of 2021 (in Crime No.330 of 2021 of Cyber Crime Police Station,

Cyberabad), by the learned IX Additional Metropolitan Magistrate,

Cyberabad at Kukatpally, whereby the subject applications filed by

the petitioner-Company seeking to defreeze its current bank accounts

i.e., Account No.0715176009 with Citi Bank, Nariman Point Branch,

Mumbai, and Account No.22105074914 with Standard Chartered

Bank, Bandra Kurla Complex Branch, Mumbai, were dismissed. 2. Heard Sri S. Niranjan Reddy, learned Senior Counsel

representing Sri Pasham Mohith, learned counsel for the petitioner-

Company, the learned Assistant Public Prosecutor representing the

respondent-State and perused the record. 3. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner-Company would

submit that the petitioner-Company runs an e-commerce website. A

variety of digital content, which is published by various third-party

gaming companies, is offered for sale on the petitioner-Company's e-

commerce website. The petitioner-Company does not develop or

publish any games directly, but only resells digital content for such

games, through its e-commerce platform. The petitioner is a

subsidiary of Coda Payments Private Limited, a Singapore based
 Dr.SA,J 2 Crl.P.Nos.7254 & 7255 of 2021 Company. The petitioner-Company acts only as an intermediary

under the nomenclature of 'Coda Payments India Private Limited'

between the companies on its digital platform and the end users

(customers). The nomenclature of the web page of the petitioner-

Company is 'www.codashop.com'. An URL link is provided in the said

web page. When a customer opens the said link, an array of

products are available, which are developed by different companies.

In the instant case, the product is 'free fire' game developed by

Garena International Private Limited, a Singapore based Company. It

is a digital game. The allegation made in the subject F.I.R. is that an

amount of Rs.11,50,000/- was deducted over a period of time from

the accounts of the de facto complainant and his daughter. It is

alleged that the grandson of the de facto complainant purchased the

game through the 'Codashop' website by using the smart phone of

the de facto complainant. The grandson of the de facto complainant

not only purchased the game, but also purchased top-up. The

petitioner-Company is not the developer of the 'Free Fire' game. The

petitioner-Company is a digital retail shop. When the end users

(customers) purchase the products through the petitioner-Company's

digital platform, the entire amount will go to the original

Company/person who developed the game and the petitioner-

Company will get surcharge or margin money on the said purchase.

Payment is not made directly to the account of the petitioner-

Company. Like most e-commerce platforms, the payments for any

purchase to be made on the petitioner's e-commerce platform occurs

through a payment gateway offered by the Banks/other entities, duly

registered with RBI. The petitioner, at no juncture, has access to any
 Dr.SA,J 3 Crl.P.Nos.7254 & 7255 of 2021 of the purchaser's bank account/payment information. The customer

makes the payment through payment gateway. To authorize

payment through the gateway, an OTP would be generated by the

bank with which the customer would be having account. Once the

customers share the said OTP with the payment gateway, the same

would be verified by the payment gateway from the concerned bank.

The verification and authentication of OTP is managed and handled

entirely by the payment gateway service provider and the petitioner-

Company has no role to play in the same. Further, after registration

of the subject crime, the petitioner/accused has suspended offering

the products of 'Free Fire' game on its e-commerce website page i.e.,

Codashop. The amount involved in the subject crime is

Rs.11,50,000/-, whereas the petitioner-Company has over Rupees

forty crores in the subject Bank Accounts, which were frozen. The

petitioner-Company has several employees and it has to make

payments towards salaries, taxes, commercial and other business

purposes. Further, the game 'Free Fire' is not an illegal game. It has

not been banned by any operation of law. The only gaming act which

is in force in the State of Telangana is the Telangana Gaming Act,

1974 , which does not ban 'Free Fire' game. Though recently, the

Government of India has banned certain games sponsored by

Chinese companies, 'Free Fire' game has been sponsored by Garena

International Private Limited, a Singapore based Company, and there

is no ban to play the said game in India. The offences alleged in the

subject crime have no application to the facts of the case on hand.

The Court below erroneously dismissed the subject interlocutory

applications and ultimately, prayed to defreeze the subject accounts
 Dr.SA,J 4 Crl.P.Nos.7254 & 7255 of 2021 of the petitioner-Company and allow the Criminal Petition as prayed

for. 4. On the other hand, the learned Assistant Public Prosecutor

would submit that menace of dangerous online games is alarming.

The administrators of these dangerous games are manipulating the

young minds and exploiting their vulnerable psychological condition.

The subject 'Free Fire' game is being sponsored by Garena

International Private Limited, a Singapore based company, which

does not have any registered entity in India. Hence, it entered into

an agreement with the petitioner-Company for payment services,

which, in turn, made an agreement with a payment gateway service

provider called Paytm. Huge money is illegally routed to the account

of the petitioner-Company. Investigation in the subject crime is in

progress. Altogether there are 30 victims in this case. Once the

subject accounts of the petitioner-Company are defreezed, there is

possibility of the petitioner-Company withdrawing the entire money

lying in the accounts leaving minimum balance, which would cause

huge loss to the victims and substantially affects the investigation.

The Court below rightly dismissed both the subject interlocutory

applications. The request of the petitioner-Company cannot be

acceded to and ultimately, prayed to dismiss both the Criminal

Petitions. 5. In view of the submissions made by both the sides, the point

that arises for determination in this Criminal Petition is: POINT: 6. The facts of the case, in brief, are that the de facto complainant

is a retired police officer. He regularly used to withdraw amount from

ATMs using his ATM card and gets SMS alert to his registered mobile

number from bank with regard to the said transaction. Recently,

when he checked his bank account balance, he found that the

available balance in his account is only Rs.1,28,007/-. Therefore, he

collected the bank statement and noticed that several fraudulent

transactions have taken place in his bank account without his

knowledge since October, 2020 and he has lost an amount of

Rs.11,00,000/- and did not get any SMS alert. He also came to know

that similar fraud was played with his daughter, who lost

Rs.50,000/-. Therefore, the de facto complainant lodged the subject

complaint with Cyber Crime Station, Cyberabad, which was registered

as Crime No.330 of 2021 for the offences punishable under Section

420 IPC and Section 66C of Information Technology Act, 2000.

During investigation, it was found that there are multiple transactions

in the account of the de facto complainant since October, 2020 and

amount is deducted at Paytm. It was found that the amount got

deducted at Coda Payments India Private Limited i.e., the petitioner-

Company, which is linked with gaming applications like 'Garena Free

Fire' etc. On examining the de facto complainant, it came to light

that the grandson of the de facto complainant, aged about 14 years,
 Dr.SA,J 6 Crl.P.Nos.7254 & 7255 of 2021 used to play games using the smart phone of the de facto

complainant. On examining the said boy, it is learnt that he plays

Garena Free Fire game using gaming accessories (paid). Pursuant to

the subject complaint, the bank accounts of the petitioner-Company

viz., current bank accounts i.e., Account No.0715176009 with Citi

Bank, Nariman Point Branch, Mumbai, and Account No.22105074914

with Standard Chartered Bank, Bandra Kurla Complex Branch,

Mumbai, were freezed. To defreeze the said accounts, the petitioner-

Company filed the subject applications before the Court below under Sections 451 & 457 of Cr.P.C., and the Court below, vide the

impugned orders, dated 01.09.2021, dismissed the said applications.

Hence, these Criminal Petitions. 7. As seen from the material placed on record, the allegations in

the instant case are that the petitioner-Company cheated the de-

facto complainant and fraudulently withdrawn Rs.11,50,000/- from

his account and also from the account of his daughter. Though the

learned Assistant Public Prosecutor had made submissions at length

and also filed some material papers before this Court, he could not

establish that 'Free Fire' game sponsored by Garena International

Private Limited, which is the epicenter of the subject dispute, has

been banned in India under any law. The material facts are that the

de facto complainant allowed his grandson, who is 14 years old, to

use his smart phone on several occasions, who played 'Free Fire'

game in the smart phone. As per the material on record and the

submissions made, the said boy purchased the 'Free Fire' game and

top-ups, several times, and in that process, amount has been

deducted from the accounts of the de facto complainant and his
 Dr.SA,J 7 Crl.P.Nos.7254 & 7255 of 2021 daughter, totaling to Rs.11,50,000/-, however, not more than

Rs.1,600/- at a time. 8. It is apt to state that generally, e-commerce entities only play

the role of a facilitator between the buyer and seller, and would not

have ownership over the goods sold. They do not stock any product

or service, but simply acts as a facilitator or a go-between entity.

Using their digital platforms, they simply bring together a potential

customer with a seller of the product/service, and the said potential

customer, using the said digital platforms, may express interest in

purchasing. E-Commerce entities additionally provide certain value-

added services to the customers to use its digital platforms, such as

provision of e-payment gateway facilities with service providers such

as Wallet, UPI, net banking, Paytm, etc., and for providing such

services, they generally charge minimal amounts for their services. 9. In the instant case, it is argued on behalf of the petitioner-

Company that the petitioner-Company is only a facilitator and does

not serve as payment platform on its own and that the payments are

not made directly on the petitioner-Company's website but they are

made directly on payment channel's platform and the petitioner-

Company only delivers the purchased digital content, upon receiving

payment confirmation from the said payment channel. Further, it is

also brought to the notice of this Court that the petitioner-Company

has several employees and it has to pay huge amounts towards

expenses. As per the details furnished by the learned Assistant

Public Prosecutor, as on today, an amount of Rs.50,66,55,269.36 ps.

is lying in the Citi Bank Account and Rs.33,22,21,598.33 ps. is lying
 Dr.SA,J 8 Crl.P.Nos.7254 & 7255 of 2021 in the Standard Chartered Bank Account. The learned senior counsel

appearing for the petitioner-Company would submit that altogether, a

total amount of rupees forty crores is lying in the subject freezed

accounts of the petitioner-Company. 10. It is the case of the de-facto complainant that he has given his

smart phone to his grandson, who is 14 years of age, and it is he who

operated the smart phone and appears to have made payments for

purchasing the subject 'Free Fire' game by undergoing the

aforementioned process. The offences alleged against the petitioner-

Company are under Section 420 of IPC and Section 66C of the

Information Technology Act, 2000. As seen from the modus operandi

of the petitioner-Company, the petitioner-Company is only a

facilitator and the products/services of different companies are put

for sale in the web page of the petitioner-Company, by providing URL

link, to the interested purchasers to purchase the said product.

Whether there is any dishonest inducement to any person to

purchase the subject game, needs to be investigated in this case. It

is too early to come to a conclusion that there is such dishonest

inducement. Further, the learned Assistant Public Prosecutor could

not able to establish that the subject 'Free Fire' game is banned in

India under any enactment. Further, Section 66C of the Information

Technology Act, 2000, reads as follows: 11. Further, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner-

Company would submit that the petitioner-Company has already

stopped providing any kind of service to 'Garena International Private

Limited' and it will continue to do so till the completion of

investigation in the subject crime. He would further submit that the

petitioner-Company would maintain a minimum balance of rupees

five crores in each account, until further orders. The said
 Dr.SA,J 10 Crl.P.Nos.7254 & 7255 of 2021 submissions of the learned senior counsel appearing for the

petitioner-Company are taken on record. 12. In view of the circumstances of the case and undertakings

placed on record, the Criminal Petitions are allowed and the

impugned orders, dated 01.09.2021, passed in Crl.M.P.Nos.656 and

657 of 2021 (arising out of Crime No.330 of 2021 of Cyber Crime

Police Station, Cyberabad), by the learned IX Additional Metropolitan

Magistrate, Kukatpally, Ranga Reddy District, are hereby set aside.

The bank accounts of the petitioner-Company, i.e., Account

No.0715176009 with Citi Bank, Nariman Point Branch, Mumbai, and

Account No.22105074914 with Standard Chartered Bank, Bandra

Kurla Complex Branch, Mumbai, stand defreezed. The petitioner-

Company is permitted to operate the said bank accounts, subject to

condition of the petitioner-Company maintaining a minimum balance

of Rs.5,00,00,000/- (Rupees five crores only) in each account. Miscellaneous Petitions, if any, pending in these Criminal

Petitions shall stand closed. _______________________
 Dr. SHAMEEM AKTHER, J
28th September, 2021

Note: