"That to palm off a young woman as belonging to a caste
 different to the one to which she really belongs, with the

 object of obtaining money, amounts to the offence of
 cheating by personation as defined in Section 416 of the
 Penal Code, 1860, which must be read in the light of the
 preceding Section 415 ." 29. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ram Jas

v. State of U.P. , (1970) 2 SCC 740 that there should be a fraudulent or

dishonest inducement before a person can be held guilty of cheating. It was observed: The ingredients required to constitute the offence of cheating

 are-- Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:6153 ) 4. In the present case, the finding of fact recorded only shows
 that the Oath Commissioner was induced to attest the affidavit
 by the deception practised by the appellant in wrongly

 . identifying a person as Govind Ram when he was in fact not

 Govind Ram. That act done by the Oath Commissioner of
 attesting the affidavit could not, however, possibly cause any
 damage or harm to the Oath Commissioner in body, mind,

 reputation or property. The Oath Commissioner was obviously
 not induced to deliver any property to anybody by this wrong
 identification, nor was he induced to consent that any person
 should retain any property. Thus, the facts found did not

 constitute the offence of cheating at all. The conviction for an
 offence under Section 419 , substantively or with the aid of Section 109 IPC, could only have been justified if the facts
 proved constituted all the ingredients of the offence of cheating. In recording the conviction, the High Court neglected to see

 whether all those ingredients were proved. On the face of it,
 though the Oath Commissioner was induced to attest the
 affidavit by wrong identification made by the appellant, there
 was no likelihood of any damage or harm to him in body, mind,

 reputation or property, so that the Oath Commissioner was
 never cheated. Clearly, therefore, the High Court fell into an
 error in recording the conviction of the appellant for the offence

 under Section 419 , read with Section 109 IPC and substituting
 that conviction in place of the conviction for offences for which

 he had been punished by the trial court. 30. Similar is the judgment in V.Y. Jose v. State of Gujarat ,

(2009) 3 SCC 78 wherein it was observed:- For the purpose of constituting an offence of cheating, the

 . complainant is required to show that the accused had

 fraudulent or dishonest intentions at the time of making a
 promise or representation. Even in a case where allegations are
 made in regard to failure on the part of the accused to keep his

 promise, in the absence of a culpable intention at the time of
 making the initial promise being absent, no offence under Section 420 of the Penal Code can be said to have been made
 out." 31. This position was reiterated in Raju Krishna Shedbalkar v. State of Karnataka, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 200 wherein it was observed: Time and again, this Court has reiterated that in order to make
 out an offence under cheating the intention to cheat or deceive

 should be right from the beginning. By no stretch of the
 imagination, this is even reflected from the complaint made by
 the informant. 8. In the case of Hridaya Ranjan Prasad Verma v. State of
 Bihar (2000) 4 SCC 168, this Court held as under: (Emphasis supplied) 9. Further, in the case of Indian Oil Corporation v. NEPC India

 Ltd. (2006) 6 SCC 736 this position was reiterated in the
 following manner: Illustrations (f) and (g) to Section 415 make this position clear: Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:6153 )

 (emphasis supplied) 32. In the present case, there are no averments in the

 . complaint that the intention of the accused was fraudulent or

dishonest right from the beginning. Hence, the essential ingredient of

cheating is not satisfied. 33. In the present case, there is no averment in the complaint

that the intention of the petitioner was fraudulent. A simple allegation

has been made that the informant had supplied the apples worth

₹2,79,30,560/-, the petitioner paid an amount of ₹2,18,50,000/- and

an amount of ₹60,80,557/- is due. This shows that the FIR discloses

that the petitioner owes some money to the informant which he had

failed to pay. This is purely a civil dispute and is being converted into

criminal litigation. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vesa Holdings Private Limited and Anr. vs. State of Kerala and Ors. , (2015)

8 SCC 293 that where the FIR does not disclose the criminal intention,

the criminal proceedings cannot continue. It was observed: - 34. It was laid down in Kapil Agarwal vs. Sanjay Sharma , (2021)

5 SCC 524: 2021 SCC OnLine SC 154 that Section 482 of Cr.P.C. is

designed to ensure that criminal proceedings are not permitted to

generate into weapons of harassment. It was observed: 35. It is apparent from the allegations made in the complaint

that the civil dispute is being given the colour of criminal litigation,

which is not permissible as laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in R.K. Vijayasarathy v. Sudha Seetharam , (2019) 16 SCC 739 and Usha

Chakraborty v. State of W.B., 2023 SCC OnLine SC 90. 36. Therefore, the FIR does not disclose the commission of any

offence of cheating. Neutral Citation No. ( 2024:HHC:6153 ) 37. The FIR specifically states that the petitioner had assured

the informant to make the payment on the delivery of the apple. It

 . nowhere mentions that apples were entrusted to the petitioner with

the specific purpose and the petitioner failed to discharge that

purpose; therefore, the ingredients of Section 406 of IPC are not

satisfied. 38. The FIR does not mention that the property was acquired

by the petitioner honestly rather it shows that apple boxes were

delivered by the informant to the petitioner. Hence, the ingredients of

the Section 403 of IPC are also not satisfied. 39. Consequently, the FIR does not disclose the commission of

any cognizable offence, and the continuation of the proceedings will

amount to the abuse of the process of the law. Hence, the FIR is

ordered to be quashed. 40. The present petition stands disposed of and so are the

pending miscellaneous applications, if any. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge

1st August, 2024. (saurav pathania) ::: Downloaded on - 01/08/2024 20:32:12 :::CIS