1. The facts of the case as per the District Commission record are as under: 2.3 The complainants were advised to inform the police regarding
 fraud of Rs. 1,20,000 - dung update of KYC detail and accordingly
 police was informed; [it is also not disputed by the OPs in their
 reply]. 2.4 The other facts and features of the complaint [which are denied
 by the OPs] are that bank officials put deaf ears to the valued senior
 citizen customers, who had put their good amount of savings in their
 account and fixed deposits. The complainants requested the OP to

ALLOWED PAGE 3 OF 9
 FA No.: 692/2023 D.O.D: 25.07.2024
 KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. MRS. PRAMILA BHATIA

 update the complainants about status of lodged complaints dated
 16.05.2020, 31.05.2020, 06.06.2020 and 09.07.2020 since the
 money was transferred into other account by fraudulent
 transactions and it could be trailed but OPs took no action nor
 provided any information, consequently leaving with no option but
 to report to cyber cell. The OPs failed to render the necessary record
 and information but they are showing incompatibility to secure the
 money of customers. They are guilty of deficiency of services. That
 is why the complaint." 2. The District Commission after taking into consideration the material available
 on record passed the order dated 04.10.2023, whereby it held as under: 50,000/- and during the phase when complaints had rushed to the
 bank, during that phase also another amount of Rs. 50,000/- by
 second transaction and then further amount of Rs. 20,000/- by
 three individual transactions were deducted from the account of
 complainant, when they were requesting to freeze the account. It
 is never the case of OPs that complainants have shared their OTPs
 to the stranger during the presence of banks officials, when
 transactions took place. (iv) Since the amounts were debited in account of complainants
 and it was by use of digital method/ technique/ tool, the record was
 at the control and disposal of OPs; there was no intervention by
 the complainants nor they have any role therein. Simultaneously
 the events took place when the complainants were present in the

ALLOWED PAGE 4 OF 9
 FA No.: 692/2023 D.O.D: 25.07.2024
 KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. MRS. PRAMILA BHATIA

 bank as well as during the presence of bank officials. It indicates
 that there was some scope or loophole or flaw in the tool or
 technique in the machine, which is at the disposal or control of
 OPs. (v) Whenever, online transactions happens, it has point of origin
 as well as end point or destination, the OPs defended themselves
 that they wrote fund recall request to SBI, Axis Bank, Paytm,
 meaning thereby they were knowing the end point of reaching of
 the funds. Neither the detail of those accounts nor the letters so
 requested have been filed and proved by the OPs. Moreover, they
 have also not provided such information to the victim
 complainants despite their request but OPs claims that they have
 been extending the cooperation. (vi) The OPs also narrated that they responded by reply dated
 29.05.2020 and 17.07.2020, however, the same was not filed nor
 proved by OPs. (vii) OPs also claim that they have investigated the matter. The
 complainant are looser of money from their account with OPs and
 OPs are knowing the trail of money. OPs have material and
 relevant information of end point where the amount has reached,
 but information was not provided to complainants when asked for
 vis a vis on the other-side OPs claims that Police had not asked
 their any assistance including indentify the culprits. OPs' plea is
 paradoxical. 5.3. The conclusions drawn in sub-paragraph no. 5.2 proves case of
 deficiency of services on the part of OPs and an amount of Rs.
 1,20,000/- has been withdrawn from the account of complainants,
 which happened due to negligence on the part of OPs, the
 complainants are held entitled for refund/ return of their amount of
 Rs. 1,20,000/. The complainants also claims interest on the amount,
 however, the interest rate has not been specified. By considering the
 circumstances including nature of account, interest at the rate of 6%
 pa from the date of complaint till realization of the amount will meet
 both ends. 5.4. The complainants claim compensation of Rs.1,00,000/-. The

ALLOWED PAGE 5 OF 9
 FA No.: 692/2023 D.O.D: 25.07.2024
 KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. MRS. PRAMILA BHATIA

 circumstances are abundantly clear that the complainants had
 requested not only the bank/ OP1 but also the police and cyber cell,
 ultimately they were constrained to file the complaint. Therefore,
 compensation of Rs. 20,000/- will justify both sides. The cost are
 also quantified as Rs.5,000/- 5.5. Accordingly, the complaint is allowed in favour of complainants
 and against the OP1/Bank to pay/ return amount of Rs. 1,20,000/-
 along with interest at the rate of 6% pa from the date of complaint
 till realization of the amount, apart from compensation of Rs.
 20,000/- and cost of Rs, 5,000/-. The amount be paid within 45 days,
 failing which, the rate of interest will become 7% pa (instead of 6%
 pa) on amount of Rs.1,20,000/-. 5.6. Since OP is Regional Business Manager of OP1, he was
 impleaded in his personal name/capacity by the complainants,
 however, being an employee of OPI, no order is directed against
 OP2. The complaint against OP2 as such is dismissed." 3. Aggrieved by the aforesaid order of the District Commission, the Appellant has
 preferred the present Appeal on the ground that the District Commission failed
 to consider that the disputed transactions are alleged to be fraud/unauthorized
 transactions and therefore, the complaint before the District Commission was
 not maintainable as the proceedings before the District Commissions are
 summary in nature and has no expertise to deal with such matters as detailed
 investigation are required in order to adjudicate such issues. The Appellants
 further submitted that there was no deficiency on the part of the Appellants and
 the District Commission has wrongly presumed that since the transactions took
 place in the presence of the bank officials, there was some scope of loophole in
 the system of the Appellants. However, the Appellants submitted that once the
 transaction is completed, the same does not remain within the control of the
 Bank. Lastly, the Appellants submitted that the bank record shows that on
 16.05.2020 i.e. the date of transactions in dispute, mobile banking was setup on

ALLOWED PAGE 6 OF 9
 FA No.: 692/2023 D.O.D: 25.07.2024
 KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. MRS. PRAMILA BHATIA

 two different mobile phones and requires activation code/OTP authentication
 which was sent by the bank through SMS alongwith the warning to report fraud
 in case of any discrepancy. Pressing the aforesaid submissions, the Appellant
 prayed for setting aside the impugned order. 4. Notice was issued to the Respondents and were directed to file reply to the
 present Appeal. However, despite multiple opportunities, the Respondents were
 failed to file the reply to the present Appeal. 5. We have perused the material available before us and heard the counsel for the
 parties. 6. Before delving into the merits of the case, the primary question for adjudication
 before us is whether the Consumer Commission is empowered to adjudicate
 the allegations of fraud as alleged by the Respondents. 7. We tend to rely on the settled law by the Hon'ble National Commission in
 Consumer case no. 269/2017 titled as " Capital Charitable and Education
 Society Vs. Axis Bank Limited " decided on 09.12.2019, wherein, the Hon'ble
 National Commission, has held as follows: 8. We further deem it appropriate to refer to the settled principle wherein this
 similar expression has been dealt by the Hon'ble National Commission in
 " P.N. Khanna Vs. Bank of India " reported at (2015) CPJ 54 (NC), wherein it
 has been discussed as follows: 9. From the aforesaid dicta, it is clear that the allegations of fraud, cheating etc.
 requires elaborate evidence and the same cannot be decided under summary
 procedure which are followed by the Consumer Commission. 10. Since, the present case involves primary question of fraud which does not come
 under the jurisdiction of the Consumer Commission. Moreover, we find that
 certain evidences have been placed on record by the parties before the District
 Commission which requires proper appreciation of evidences in order to decide
 the present case on merits. Therefore, the parties are directed to present their
 case to the proper court having jurisdiction to adjudicate and decide the matter
 on merits. 11. Consequently, we tend to set aside the impugned order dated 04.10.2023 passed
 by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (Central District)

ALLOWED PAGE 8 OF 9
 FA No.: 692/2023 D.O.D: 25.07.2024
 KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. MRS. PRAMILA BHATIA - VIII, 5th Floor Maharana Pratap ISBT Building, Kashmere Gate, Delhi for
 the want of jurisdiction to adjudicate the same as per the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . Accordingly, the present Appeal stands
 allowed. 12. Before parting with the judgment, it is necessary to clarify that we have not
 gone into the merits of the case since the same has to be decided before a court
 having the requisite jurisdiction to adjudicate. 13. FDR, if any, filed as statutorily required, be returned to the Appellant along
 with the interest accrued till date. 14. Application(s) pending, if any, stand disposed of in terms of the aforesaid
 judgment. 15. The Judgment be uploaded forthwith on the website of the Commission for the
 perusal of the parties. 16. File be consigned to record room along with a copy of this Judgment. (JUSTICE SANGITA DHINGRA SEHGAL)
 PRESIDENT

 (PINKI)
 MEMBER (JUDICIAL)
 Pronounced On: