A.K. PATNAIK, J. The petitioner is a society duly registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 and is engaged in taking up

various common problems of the people for redressal.

Concerned with the increase of the non-recovered loans

advanced by the public and private sector banks in India

which have come to be known as Non-Performing Assets (for

short "NPAs"), the petitioner has filed this Writ Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution as a Public Interest Litigation

praying for appropriate writs and directions. 2 2. The petitioner has stated in the Writ Petition that the

aggregate figure of NPAs worked out on the basis of data

compiled by the Banking Division of the Ministry of Finance is

Rs.43,577/- crores. According to the petitioner, non-recovery

of such huge amount of NPAs has resulted in substantial

funds of banks not being available for development of the

country's economy and this, in turn, has affected the citizens.

The petitioner has alleged that the steps taken by the Union

Government to recover the NPAs have not yielded positive

results and the Finance Ministry of the Union Government is

reported to have admitted that 27 nationalised banks had

written off a staggering amount of Rs.4,010/- crores as bad

debts during 1994-95 and 1995-96. According to the

petitioner, most of the bad debts are on account of defaults

made by men of substantial means and influence and if proper

checks are introduced to ensure that loans and advances are

not given to fraudulent borrowers, the NPAs will get

substantially reduced. 3. Mr. Prashant Bhushan, learned senior counsel appearing

for the petitioner, submitted that in the Writ Petition, as 3 originally filed, the petitioner has suggested various measures

to check the menace of increasing NPAs by evolving a proper

mechanism that would reduce the possibility of fresh loans

becoming NPAs, but subsequently this Court passed orders on

09.08.2005, 08.12.2005, 09.11.2006 and 30.01.2008 directing

the petitioner to make written suggestions to the Union

Government and also directing the Union Government to hold

meetings with the concerned functionaries to consider those

suggestions. He submitted that pursuant to these directions,

the petitioner has made various suggestions in its letters dated

02.08.2001, 25.08.2005 and 10.08.2006, but except for one

suggestion regarding the definition of "willful defaulter", all the

suggestions were rejected by the Union Government. He

submitted that the reasons given by the Government for

rejecting the suggestions are that if the suggestions are

adopted, the public sector banks will become less competitive

and will loose its customers to the private sector banks. He

explained that the suggestions made by the petitioner mainly

emphasized that the loans and advances must not be given

without fully checking the creditworthiness and past record of 4 the borrowers and that companies, which have been "willful

defaulters" in the past or whose subsidiary companies and

promoters have willfully defaulted in the past in repaying the

loans and advances, should not be given fresh loans and

advances. He also explained that the suggestions of the

petitioner also stress on the greater accountability of the bank

officials and on the personal liability of the promoters by

making personal guarantee of the promoters mandatory in

every case. He vehemently argued that the Union Government

could not possibly have any objection to these suggestions

made by the petitioner and the reasons given in the affidavit of

Shri Dharam Paul Bhardwaj, Under Secretary, Ministry of

Finance, Department of Economic Affairs (Banking Division)

filed on behalf of the Union Government for not accepting the

suggestions are frivolous. On behalf of the petitioner, he

urged the Court to issue appropriate writs and directions to

the respondents to implement the suggestions made by the

petitioner. 4. Mr. Gopal Subramanium, learned Solicitor General for

the Union of India, however, submitted, relying on the 5 additional affidavit, that a number of steps have already been

taken by the Ministry of Finance, Government of India, to

address the issue of NPAs and bank frauds and these are: 5. In rejoinder, Mr. Prashant Bhushan submitted that the

reduction in NPAs, as claimed by the Union Government, has

come about by waivers, write-offs, rescheduling of repayments,

moratoriums and one-time settlements but all this has

actually resulted in loss of substantial amount of public funds.

He submitted that as per the report of the Reserve Bank of

India on the trend and progress of banking in India for 2004-

2005, total NPAs recovered by the banks amounted to 8 Rs.20,568/-crore and out of this, an amount of Rs.14,506/-

crore was recovered through asset reconstruction companies

and these recoveries are nothing but purchase of NPAs from

the banks by another set of public companies. He submitted

that the report of the Reserve Bank of India would further

show that during 2004-2005 an additional Rs.16,000 crore of

NPAs have accrued. He submitted that the measures taken by

the Union Government to reduce the NPAs, therefore, have not

been effective. He finally submitted that without statutory

power and without qualified manpower, the SFIO would be

teeth-less and incompetent and this Court should direct the

Union Government to make the SFIO an independent

statutory body consisting of qualified manpower as suggested

by Mr. Harish Salve, learned senior Counsel. 6. Mr. Bhushan cited the decision of this Court in Vishaka

and Others v. State of Rajasthan and Others [(1997) 6 SCC

241] for the proposition that if there is no enacted legislation

to provide for the effective enforcement of any fundamental

right, this Court can issue guidelines/directions for the

effective enforcement of the fundamental right under Article 32 9 of the Constitution, which would be law under Article 141 of

the Constitution, till a suitable legislation is enacted to occupy

the field. He also relied on the decision in Vineet Narian &

Ors. v. Union of India & Anr. [(1998) 1 SCC 226] in which this

Court has observed that the judiciary must step in, in exercise

of its constitutional obligations under Article 32 read with Article 142 of the Constitution, to provide a solution till such

time as the legislature acts to perform its role by enacting

proper legislation to cover the field. He submitted that in case

this Court is not inclined to issue directions or writs in the

matter, the Court can at least direct that the suggestions

made by the petitioner for checking the NPAs in future be

referred to an independent expert committee. 7. In Vishaka and Others v. State of Rajasthan and Others (supra) cited by Mr. Bhushan, this Court held that in the

absence of enacted law to provide for the effective enforcement

of the basic human right of gender equality and guarantee

against sexual harassment and abuse, more particularly

against sexual harassment at workplaces, some guidelines

and norms for due observance at all workplaces or other 10 institutions were required to be laid down by this Court until a

legislation is enacted for the purpose and this Court made it

clear that this was required to be done in exercise of the power

available under Article 32 of the Constitution for enforcement

of the Fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 , 15 ,

19(1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution. Similarly, in Vineet

Narain and Others v. Union of India and Another (supra), this

Court issued some directions for rigid compliance till such

time as the legislature steps in to substitute them by proper

legislation and these directions were made under Article 32 read with Article 142 of the Constitution to implement the rule

of law wherein the concept of equality enshrined in Article 14 is embedded. Hence, in both the cases cited by Mr. Prashant

Bhushan, the Court issued writs and directions for

enforcement of fundamental rights conferred by Part-III of the

Constitution, but in the present case, the petitioner has not

made out a case that for enforcement of any right guaranteed

under Part-III of the Constitution, writs or directions are

required to be issued by this Court under Article 32 of the

Constitution. 8. Moreover, in Vishaka and Others v. State of Rajasthan

and Others (supra), this Court laid down guidelines and norms

for due observance at work places and institutions to prevent

sexual harassment of working women, because there was no

law to prevent such sexual harassment. In the present case,

we find from the additional affidavit filed on behalf of the

Union of India that through various legislative measures such

as the DRT Act, the SARFAESI Act, 2002 , the Credit

Information Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005 and through

some administrative measures, the respondents are trying to

reduce the number and amount of NPAs and to detect and

check bank frauds in future. 9. According to Mr. Prashant Bhushan, however, these

legislative and administrative measures taken by the Union

Government have not been effective in reducing and

controlling the NPAs. Whether legislative and administrative

measures taken by the Union Government have been effective

or not is not for the Court but for the Union Government and

Parliament to consider because reduction and control of NPAs

are not within the domain of judiciary but within the domain 12 of the Executive and Legislature under our Constitution.

Moreover, as has been observed by P.N. Bhagwati, J. in State

of M.P. and Others v. Nandlal Jaiswal and Others [(1986) 4

SCC 566] in field of economic activities, there has to be

judicial deference to Legislative and Executive judgment and

decisions on complex economic matters are to be based on

experimentation or what one may call `trial and error method'.

It is therefore not for Courts to sit in judgment whether a

particular policy decision of the Government is effective or not,

but for Parliament to debate and decide on the policy decision. In a recent decision of this Court in Villianur Iyarkkai

Padukappu Maiyam v. Union of India and Others [(2009) 7 SCC

561], Panchal, J. writing the judgment on behalf of a three-

Judge Bench observed: 10. The Union Government, however, must ensure that SFIO

is effective in detecting and preventing bank frauds by

influential people. We find that the Central Government has

constituted a Committee of Experts under the Chairmanship

of Shri Vepa Kamesam, Ex-Deputy Governor of Reserve Bank

of India, with the following terms of reference: We have no doubt that this Committee of Experts under the

Chairmanship of Ex-Deputy Governor of Reserve Bank of India

will suggest effective measures, legislative or administrative, to

ensure that bank frauds are prevented in future and the NPAs

are kept to the minimum. We hope and trust that this

Committee under the Chairmanship of Ex-Deputy Governor of

Reserve Bank of India will consider the suggestion to make the

SFIO (or any similar body) a statutory authority having

sufficient powers and having the required autonomy to be able

to effectively deal with the problems of bank frauds and NPAs.

A copy of this order will be placed by the respondent No.1

before the Committee of Experts. 11. The writ petition and the application for impleadment/

intervention stand disposed of. No costs.