1. The instant Revision Petition U/s 397/399 Cr.P.C has been
preferred against an order dated 31.05.2024 passed by the Ld. CMM,
NI Act/East/KKD Courts/Delhi passed in CT Case No. 1409/2023
titled "Nakul Sharma v. Bit Quants", vide the said order, the
application U/s 156 (3) Cr.PC of complainant was dismissed by Ld.
 Digitally
CMM, East District, Karkardooma Courts, Delhi. signed by
 Ashish
 Ashish Rastogi
 Rastogi Date: plus and 20 %/25 % extra return on every investment done by new
member, basically it was a chain system like multilevel marketing. It
was further alleged that admin created a rosy picture by false Cr No.133/2024 Nakul Sharam V. Bitquant & ors Page 2 of 16 representation, message, photographs, interview of alleged investors
who were supposedly getting huge returns on their investment.
Relying upon the same, complainant deposited Rs. 6,000/- in UPI, Id:- He further alleged that upon inquiry he came to know that it is a scam
in which about 7 Lacs Indian citizens have lost their hard earned
money & actual amount of cheating is approximately 500 crore. 6. Thereafter, despite making representations to the police
station Cyber Cell, East and on 30.09.2023 complainant had
approached Commissioner of Delhi Police and Cyber cell concerned
but no action has been taken by the police officials. 7. Thereafter, complainant filed an application U/s 156 (3) Cr.PC before Ld. CMM, East, Karkardooma courts, Delhi for
registration of FIR. In the said matter, status report was called by Ld.
CMM East on 05.03.2023. As per the status report, on 08.09.2023 the
complainant lodged a complaint on NCRP Portal vide No.
20809230069065, wherein it was alleged by him that someone
cheated Rs. 6,000/- in the name of Bitquant application, which was
also listed on Google play store. It was further stated that inquiry was
conducted in this matter. 8. During the course of inquiry, an email was sent to
complainant to provide supporting evidence with regards to his
allegation. In compliance of email, the following details have been
collected from the complainant:- (i). UPI ID whom the above said Rs. 6,000/- were
transferred by him; 2. Link URL of website; 3. Link of above said
application & 4. Whastapp chats or screenshots. During the course of
enquiry, the following actions were taken in this matter to ascertain,
whether any offence is committed with the complainant or otherwise. (ii) On the basis of account statement, in which the
abovesaid amounts were credited in bank account No. 109002036695
of RBL Bank and the abovesaid amounts has been marked lien. (iii) Further a letter to abovesaid account holder company
has been issued to join enquiry and file his statement. (iv) Notice to Google LLC has been sent to provide details
of person/company, who had applied for their application listed to be Cr No.133/2024 Nakul Sharam V. Bitquant & ors Page 4 of 16 on Google Play Store. (v) Notice to Alibaba.com has been sent to provide details
person/company, who had applied for their website listed to be
through them. (vi) Notice to watsapp has been issued to provide details of
user of international watsapp account numbers. 9. It was further informed that the abovesaid amounts has been
marked lien in the above said alleged account and if complainant
desire and Ld. Court deems fit, the above said amounts may be
refunded to the complainant as per order of this Ld. Court. 10. In this connection, it was further submitted that reply to
above said third party entities/companies or individual are yet to be
received, as when their reply is received, legal action will be initiated
as per law, if any cognizable offence is made. It was further submitted
that investigation agency is ready to abide with the direction of the
Hon'ble Court passed in this case. 11. Vide order dated 31.05.2024, the said application U/s 156
(3) Cr.PC was dismissed and complainant was at liberty to lead pre-
summoning evidence to prove his case. The said order has been
challenged by this instant revision petition. Ld. Counsel for revisionist
argues that the order is perverse and erroneous which warrants the
exercise the revisionary jurisdiction of this court. The Ld. Trial Court
has failed to appreciate the fact that the identity of the accused persons
is not known to the complainant and that complainant cannot fetch the Cr No.133/2024 Nakul Sharam V. Bitquant & ors Page 5 of 16 necessary evidences to prove his case without assistance of police and
interest of justice demands the police help to the complainant. The
criteria as laid down by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in M/s Skipper
Beverages Pvt. Ltd. V. State 2001 IV AD (Delhi) is satisfied and
Ld. CMM should have directed to registration of FIR. 12. Ld. Counsel for complainant further submits that Ld. CMM
failed to appreciate the fact that the investigation cannot carried out
prior to the registration of FIR and that pre-registration of the FIR,
only preliminary inquiry by the police can take place. The purpose of
the said inquiry is very limited and that is to ascertain whether the
allegations as contained in the complaint disclosed that the cognizable
offence is made out or not. It is further submitted that the Ld. CMM
noted in her order that investigation is still pending at this stage which
is against the settled law. Moreover, the Ld. CMM, dismissed the
application U/s 156 (3) Cr.PC of the complainant and still called
further status report and at the same time granted liberty to
complainant to lead pre summoning evidence U/s 200 Cr.PC thereby
proceeding with complaint also and the same is expressedly against section 210 Cr.PC. 13. Ld. Addl. PP for the State submitted that notices have
already been served upon the Google LLC, Alibaba.com and user of
international watsapp account members. Moreover, the account in
which the amount of the complainant was deposited has already been
freezed and the complainant can withdraw the said amount by filing
appropriate application. The reply to the notices has been given to the Cr No.133/2024 Nakul Sharam V. Bitquant & ors Page 6 of 16 companies is awaited and legal action shall be taken against them as
when reply has been received. 14. I have heard the submission from the Ld. Counsel for the
Revisionist and Ld. Addl. PP at length. 15. Before moving further, it would be apt to discuss the law
relating to Section 156(3) CRPC as has been lucidly explained in M/s
Skipper beverages v. State , 2001 IV AD (DELHI) 625: 16. In addition, the procedure which is to be adopted by the Ld.
Magistrate post the receipt of the application under Section 156(3) has
been discussed in detail in Subhkaran Luharuka v. State , 2010
SCC OnLine Del 2324 which holds as under: Upon a preliminary satisfaction, unless there are exceptional
 circumstances to be recorded in writing, a status report by the
 police is to be called for before passing final orders. (iii) The Magistrate, when approached with a Complaint under Section 200 of the Code, should invariably proceed under
 Chapter XV by taking cognizance of the Complaint, recording
 evidence and then deciding the question of issuance of process to
 the accused. In that case also, the Magistrate is fully entitled to
 postpone the process if it is felt that there is a necessity to call
 for a police report under Section 202 of the Code. (iv) Of course, it is open to the Magistrate to proceed under
 Chapter XII of the Code when an application under Section
 156(3) of the Code is also filed along with a Complaint under Section 200 of the Code if the Magistrate decides not to take
 cognizance of the Complaint. However , in that case , the
 Magistrate, before passing any order to proceed under Chapter
 XII, should not only satisfy himself about the pre-requisites as
 aforesaid, but additionally, he should also be satisfied that it is
 necessary to direct Police investigation in the matter for
 collection of evidence which is neither in the possession of the
 complainant nor can be produced by the witnesses on being
 summoned by the Court at the instance of complainant, and the
 matter is such which calls for investigation by a State agency.
 The Magistrate must pass an order giving cogent reasons as to
 why he intends to proceed under Chapter XII instead of Chapter
 XV of the Code." 17. With this background, it shall be pertinent to analyze the
facts at hand and the impugned order. 18. The reasons for not directing the registration of an FIR are
mainly contained in Para 5 of the order of Ld. CMM. The same is
reproduced as under: 19. Regarding the same, it is observed that the Ld. CMM has
held that firstly the identity of the Accused persons is not ascertained
and secondly notices have been issued to the concerned websites and
the amount of the complainant has already been freezed which may be
released to the complainant. The Ld. CMM goes on to observe that the
investigation is still pending at this stage. The status report in the said
matter was filed by the SI Naresh Kumar on 05/03/2024 wherein he
stated that the reply of the companies to which notices have been
issued is yet to be received and as and when the reply is received,
legal action shall be initiated, if any cognizable offence is made out or
not. In this connection, before moving further, it shall be pertinent to
highlight the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sindhu
Janak Nagargoje v. State of Maharashra, SLP (Crl.) No. 5883 of
2020: The aforesaid are only illustrations and not exhaustive of all
 conditions which may warrant preliminary inquiry.
 120.7 While ensuring and protecting the rights of the accused
 and the complainant, a preliminary inquiry should be made
 time bound and, in any case, it should not exceed 7 days. The
 fact of such delay and the causes of it must be reflected in the
 General Diary entry. 120.8 Since the General Diary/Station Diary/Daily Diary is
 the record of all information received in a police station, we
 direct that all information relating to cognizable offences,
 whether resulting in registration of FIR or leading to an
 inquiry, must be mandatorily and meticulously reflected in the
 said Diary and the decision to conduct a preliminary inquiry
 must also be reflected, as mentioned above." 20. As it is clear from the said judgement as well as the general
law occupying the field that registration of an FIR is mandatory if the
complaint discloses the commission of cognizable offence and before Cr No.133/2024 Nakul Sharam V. Bitquant & ors Page 11 of 16 the registration of FIR, only a preliminary enquiry can be conducted
only to ascertain whether the information received discloses any
cognizable offence or not. As clearly held, firstly, the verification or
testing the veracity of the allegations as contained in the complaint is
outside the purview of preliminary enquiry and its scope is very
limited. Secondly, the said preliminary enquiry has to be completed
within a period of 7 days and cannot exceed the said period. If that be
so, the order of Ld. CMM is clearly erroneous on two counts. Firstly,
as per the status report the enquiry appears to be an open-ended
enquiry as it is clearly mentioned that the legal action shall be initiated
post the receipt of replies from the allegedly delinquent websites.
Secondly, the police officials have also exceeded the scope and
mandate of preliminary enquiry as they have sought the replies on the
allegations as contained in the complaint thereby entering into the
realm of testing the veracity of the allegations as contained in the
complaint in the preliminary enquiry itself which is clearly not
permissible. Thirdly, the enquiry is lingering on and has gone well
past the stipulated period of 7 days. The Ld. CMM on one hand
observed that the investigation is pending and on other hand observed
that registration of FIR cannot be directed pending enquiry. It is trite
law that both the words i.e. investigation and enquiry have distinct
meanings and cannot be used interchangeably. Investigation begins
after registration of the FIR while enquiry has an extremely limited
purpose i.e. to ascertain whether the complaint discloses any
cognizable offence. 21. The order of the Ld. CMM suffers from another error Cr No.133/2024 Nakul Sharam V. Bitquant & ors Page 12 of 16 apparent on the face of the record and that is that the application under Section 156(3) CRPC was disposed off and hence clearly FIR was not
directed to be registered. Simultaneously, Complainant was granted
liberty to lead pre-summoning evidence as per Section 200 CRPC as
pursue his case as a complaint case. At the same time, concerned IO
was directed to file a detailed status report in the present case by the
next date of hearing. Therefore, after disposal of the application under Section 156(3) CRPC, a status report has been called from the IO
regarding the status of the present case and at the same time the
Complainant is granted liberty to lead pre-summoning evidence. The
same is not permissible under Section 210 of CR.PC which holds as
under: 22. Thus, it is clear that the Ld. CMM by the impugned order
has disposed off the application u/s 156 CRPC but still called for the
detailed status report while at the same time also proceeding with the
Complaint case. If there is a need to call for a police report in a
Complaint case, that can only be done under Section 202 CRPC which
is a post cognizance stage and that power can only be exercised before
issuance of process i.e. after pre-summoning evidence. The same is
only for the subjective satisfaction of the magistrate that there exist
sufficient grounds to issue process. If the magistrate is calling for a
status report while considering whether FIR should be registered or
not, then the complaint case cannot be proceeded forward till the
decision on the 156(3) CRPC application is made. The said position
has been clearly explained by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Subhkaran Luharuka v. State , 2010 SCC OnLine Del 2324: 23. Therefore, the course of action adopted by the Ld. CMM i.e.
disposing off 156(3) application and at the same time calling for a
detailed status report from the IO and also giving liberty to the
Complainant to pursue his case as a complaint case and lead pre-
summoning evidence is clearly not sustainable and the said order
deserves to be set aside. 24. Coming to the facts of the instant matter, it is been noted by
the Ld. CMM itself that the identity of the Accused person is not
known. The complainant was allegedly duped through an app called
BIT Quant which he downloaded from Google playstore under the
promise of getting 1000% return on his investment. The nature of
allegations are such that the complainant may not be in a position to
collect evidence himself and produce them before the court as the
operators of the app "Bit Qaunt" and the operators of the watsapp
group are not known. Prima facie cognizable offence is made out as Cr No.133/2024 Nakul Sharam V. Bitquant & ors Page 15 of 16 per the allegations as contained in the complaint. Hence, it is a fit case
for direction of registration of FIR. 25. In the light of the above discussion, the Revision petition is
allowed. The order of Ld. CMM dated 31.05.2024 is set aside. FIR be
registered in the matter within one week from today. TCR record be sent back to Ld. Trial Court alongwith copy
of this order. File be consigned to Record Room after due compliance.
 Copy of this order be given dasti, as prayed. (ASHISH RASTOGI)
 Addl. Sessions Judge -05
 KKD Courts/East Dstt./Delhi

 Announced in the open court
 on this 21.08.2024 Cr No.133/2024 Nakul Sharam V. Bitquant & ors Page 16 of 16