1. Heard Sri Ashok Khare, learned Senior Advocate assisted by Sri Siddharth Khare, Sri Ashish Mishra, Sri Seemant Singh and Sri Radha Kant Ojha, learned Senior Advocate assisted by Sri Namit Srivastava for petitioners, Sri Manish Goyal, learned Senior Advocate assisted by Ms. Anjali Goklani and Ms. Ananya Shukla, learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent U.P. Jal Nigam, Sri Ajeet Kumar Singh, learned Additional Advocate General assisted by Sri Amit Verma, learned Standing Counsel for the State respondents, Sri Sanjay Kumar Om, learned counsel for the U.P. Jal Nigam (Rural) and Sri V.K. Rai and Sri Aditya Bhushan Singhal, learned counsel for U.P. Jal Nigam (Urban), Ms. Meha Rashmi, learned counsel appearing for respondent M/s. Aptech Limited. 2. This bunch of petitions consists of above noted writ petitions that arise out of the same advertisements and selections qua posts of Assistant Engineers, Junior Engineers (different trades) and Routine Grade Clerks of same department namely U.P. Jal Nigam and are, therefore, connected. Now this bunch of petitions is being heard and decided. FACTS 3. The erstwhile U.P. Jal Nigam prior to its split into two corporations, namely, U.P. Jal Nigam (Urban) and U.P. Jal Nigam (Rural) issued advertisements on 18th June, 2016, 28th October, 2016 and 29th November, 2016 inviting applications for making selection and appointments against 335 vacancies of Routine Grade Clerks (including stenographers), 853 vacancies of Junior Engineers in the break-up of 723 for Civil trade, 126 of Mechanical/ Electrical trade and 122 vacancies of Assistant Engineers in the break-up 113 for Civil trade, 5 for Mechanical/ Electrical trade and 4 Computer Science/ Electronic Communication. 4. As against the posts of Assistant Engineers about 34128 candidates in different trades, 61,452 candidates for the posts of Junior Engineers (different trades) and 84,643 candidates against the post Routine Grade Clerk appeared in the Computer Based Test (CBT) that was held for the selection and appointment purposes. 5. The CBT for the post of Assistant Engineers was conducted on 16th December, 2016 in 2 shifts, one for Civil and one shift for other trades, whereas for the post of Junior Engineer, the CBT was held on 6th December, 2016 and 7th December, 2016 in 5 shifts and for the Routine Grade Clerk, the CBT was held from 5th August, 2016 to 7th August, 2016 inclusive. 6. Four set of question papers were prepared for the post of Assistant Engineer consisting of 80 questions each. For the post of Junior Engineers five set of question papers consisting of 80 questions each and for the Routine Grade Clerk nine question papers were prepared consisting of 80 questions each. 7. The CBT results were declared for the posts of Assistant Engineer on 17th December, 2016 for the post of Junior Engineer on 7th December, 2016 and for the Routine Grade Clerk on 9th August, 2016. 8. In the category of Assistant Engineers (Civil) 522 candidates, in the category of Mechanical 22 candidates and Computer Science/ Electronic Communication 20 candidates were shown to have qualified in the CBT. 9. In respect of the Junior Engineers 3961 candidates qualified for civil trade, whereas 699 candidates qualified in the Mechanical/ Electrical trade. 10. In the CBT conducted for Routine Grade Clerks and Stenographers in 2316 candidates were shown to have qualified and out of that only 718 candidates were successful in the typing test, who were ultimately interviewed. 11. In order to conduct interview the corporation proceeded to constitute Boards. 6 Interview Boards were constituted for Assistant Engineers. 10 Interview Boards were constituted for Junior Engineers and 6 Interview Boards were constituted for Routine Grade Clerks. 12. Interview for the post of Assistant Engineers in different trades were held on 30th December, 2016 and 31st December, 2016. For the posts of Junior Engineer in different trades were held from 19th December, 2016 to 7th December, 2016 inclusive and for Routine Grade Clerk interviews were held from 30th November, 2016 to 2nd December, 2016 inclusive. 13. For the post of Assistant Engineer each Board had been assigned 2 slots each day to conduct interview. For Junior Engineer each Board had been assigned only one slot each day for 6 days and so also 6 Boards were constituted for Routine Grade Clerk that had one slot for 3 days. 14. In the case of Assistant Engineer there were two slots, one for the morning session and the other one for post lunch session, whereas in case of Junior Engineer and Routine Grade Clerk the slots continued from morning to evening. 15. The records reveal as per the reports relied upon by the respondents to wit, investigation reports submitted by Special Investigation Team, statements have been made by those who were members of interview board that the time schedule for interview was 10:30 am to 5:30 pm and in some cases 10:00 am to 5:00 pm (as per the statements made by two different members of different board) so approximately 15 candidates in 60 minutes if absentees are also included. 16. The records further reveal that as per the pleadings in the counter affidavit filed in writ petition being Writ - A No.- 7076 of 2021 ( Samrah Ahmad v. State of U.P. and others ), each Board for the post of Assistant Engineers category had been assigned minimum 18 candidates to maximum 28 candidates to be interviewed in one shift. Likewise for the post of Junior Engineer, each Interview Board was assigned minimum 64 to maximum 86 candidates for each day to be interviewed and for the Routine Grade Clerk each Board had been assigned minimum 29 to maximum 44 candidates to be interviewed each day. The numbers are seen to be in reducing trend looking to the days scheduled for interview both in the case of Junior Engineer and Routine Grade Clerk as the days progressed. 17. The records further reveal that the candidates who had been called for interview for the post of Assistant Engineers, were 564 in number, however, 16 candidates remained absent. In the category of Junior Engineer out of 4660 candidates, 266 candidates were absent in interview. 18. Further the selection for the post of stenographer was cancelled on 16th December, 2016. The final select list for the post of Assistant Engineers was declared on 3rd January, 2017, for the post of Junior Engineers was declared on 2nd January, 2017 and for Routine Grade Clerk select list was declared on 24th December, 2016. The appointment orders for the posts of Assistant Engineers were issued on 3rd January, 2017, for the post of Junior Engineer were issued on 2nd January, 2017 whereas for the post of Routine Grade Clerk appointment orders were issued much before on 24th December, 2016. 19. The entire above selection process was outsourced to M/s Aptech Limited - a private agency, who has been conducting online tests for the purpose of selection and recruitment to various Government departments and other establishments. 20. M/s Aptech Ltd. used a cloud server CtrlS Mumbai to register applications of the candidates online, the digital copy of the admit cards were uploaded to be downloaded by the candidates for CBT to be held at the assigned centres on scheduled dates on online mode. 21. In order to undertake this exhaustive exercise and to ensure transparency and at the same to maintain integrity of online examination data and the result processing by the outsourced agency agreements was entered between the agency and U.P. Jal Nigam for Junior Engineers on 28.10.2016, for Assistant Engineers on 15.12.2016 and for Routine Grade Clerks on 17.06.2016. One such contract (work order) reached between the agency and the Corporation is reproduced hereunder: APTECH LIMITED'S RESPONSIBILITIES: U. P. JAL NIGAM RESPONSIBILITIES: COMMERCIAL TERMS: GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS: SCOPE OF WORK: ATTENDANCE SHEET: DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT OF QUESTION PAPER: PRE-EXAMINATION STAGE ACTIVITIES:- EXAMINATION STAGE ACTIVITIES:- POST-EXAMINATION STAGE ACTIVITIES:- Proprietary Rights: 22. It is also pertinent here to reproduce the data retention policy dated 21st January, 2015 of M/s Aptech Ltd as the same was in force at the time of above agreement: a. Ensure limited access to backup data; b. Backups shall be stored in secure location(s). Backup media shall be stored in an off-site location to prevent the destruction of both the main source and the backup source; c. Backup media shall be stored in a steel almirah/cabinet under lock & key. For hardcopy (paper) format: 23. It is also an admitted fact that the position on record was until the appointment orders were issued, neither the agency published the master answer key, the candidates' response sheet, inviting objections, nor even the corporation insisted upon the agency to do the same. It appears that after the corporation received notices under the Right to Information Act, 2005 about the CBT results then it required the M/S Aptech Ltd. to publish online the master answer key. 24. Once the CBT result was declared, it was provided to the Jal Nigam to hold/ conduct interview by constituting the Board and same was done accordingly. After the interview was over, the agency was to prepare the final select list adding the marks of the CBT result of the candidates with marks obtained in the interview. 25. Thus on facts, it is an admitted position that the entire examination was conduced through outsourcing, to which the corporation fully trusted at least till the appointment order were issued and candidates were given joining. 26. It is with the publication of master answer key that objections to certain questions asked in the question papers and answer to certain questions provided in master answer key were raised and this resulted in the controversy leading to the petitions being filed over here and at Allahabad and its Lucknow Bench by some of candidates, according to whom they were wrongly ousted from merit list of C.B.T. 27. The records further reveal that about 53 challenges were made in respect of the Junior Engineers and 9 questions were challenged in the category of Routine Grade Clerk. In respect of the 53 challenges in the question papers made for Junior Engineer CBT, 6 questions were found incorrect/ wrong and 18 answers were also found incorrect/ wrong out of total 400. In respect of Assistant Engineers question paper of CBT, 7 questions were found to be incorrect/ wrong and 20 answers were found to be incorrect/ wrong out of 320 questions in 4 set of papers. In the case of Routine Grade Clerk only 7 answers were found to be incorrect/ wrong out of total 720 questions asked for in different set up of papers. The revised C.B.T. results accordingly were asked by the corporation from M/s Aptech Ltd. on 25th July, 2017 and 30th July, 2017 and 14th August, 2017 respectively and the agency handed over it to the Jal Nigam on 8th August, 2017, 19th August and 31st August, 2017 in respect of the Routine Grade Clerk, Junior Engineer and Assistant Engineer respectively. 28. With the litigation started at Allahabad High Court and its Lucknow Bench, an issue arose about the correctness of the CBT results published by M/s Aptech Ltd. on the basis of which the candidates were called for interview. Interlocutory orders were passed asking the corporation to do corrections and even orders were passed by the Lucknow Bench to the extent that if need be the question answers may be got verified from institutions like IITs as per the statement made on behalf of the corporation. Afterall when the agency, of course, with concurrence of corporation published the revised result, those who were not called for interview due to alleged irregularity were identified as 479 in number in category of Junior Engineer (Civil & Electrical/ Mechanical) and hence became entitled to be interviewed. This led the corporation to form a prima facie view at the initial stage to the effect that there were some serious irregularities committed at the end of the agency in conducting the CBT and preparing its result, which needed investigation and accordingly it held two in-house inquiries by the Chief Engineer (Nagar), who submitted his report on 29th May, 2017 and another report of Chief Engineer Level- II submitted on 7th July, 2017. 29. Taking notice of the findings arrived at in the inquiry reports Corporation decided to annul the entire selection and appointments that had already taken place, vide order on 11th August, 2017 passed by the Chief Engineer. Those who were selected and appointed became aggrieved for the reason that order though was having adverse civil consequences and yet no notice much less a show cause notice was given to any of them and if the order was sustained, it would lead to a serious miscarriage of justice. Accordingly, writ petitions were filed before this Court. Writ petition of Ajit Singh Patel and 10 others v. State of U.P. and 3 others being Writ - A No.- 37143 of 2017 came to be disposed of by this Court along with other connected matters by a detailed judgment and order dated 28th November, 2017. 30. The order impugned was set aside basically on the ground that no exercise was undertaken to distinguish tainted from untainted candidates and had this exercise been undertaken, each individual petitioner would have been entitled to notice to offer at least his/ her explanation. The liberty was given to the respondents to pass reasoned and speaking order afresh after providing opportunity of hearing to the petitioners and other affected parties on the basis of observations made in the said judgment . 31. Since Corporation had raised pleas to be valid enough in its wisdom, to the effect that neither the posts were sanctioned, nor proper procedures were followed, inasmuch as, the results and appointment orders were issued just a day or two before the notification of the model code of conduct in view of the scheduled Legislative Assembly elections in the State, it questioned the order of Division Bench of this Court before the Supreme Court by filing leave petitions, being SLP (C) No. 5410-5419 of 2018. The only plea taken before the Supreme Court was that the High Court had failed to give opportunity to the Corporation to rework on the merit list in view of the incorrect questions and answers coupled with the argument that factual matrix of the case not required any individual notice. 32. Supreme Court taking notice of the above arguments observed that the plea of reworking of the merit list could not be a ground to set aside the order because this opportunity was always there and the doors of Court were not closed, if the respondents so advised, to approach the High Court for this liberty. It, however, left it to the discretion of the High Court to entertain this plea on its own merit, if raised. The SLP got disposed of by a very short order of the Supreme Court passed on 16.03.2018 without interfering with the findings returned by the Division Bench of this Court under the order assailed before the Supreme Court. The order of the Supreme Court dated 16.03.2018 is reproduced hereunder: 33. Resultantly, Corporation approached the High Court again by filing a review petition but the Division Bench declined to entertain the same on merits. The bench observed that the respondents had been granted liberty to pass fresh order after providing opportunity to the petitioners and other effected parties following the exercise of segregation between tainted and untainted candidates but the Corporation failed to do the same. The Court observed that while passing the order fresh, the Corporation was free to look into every aspect of the matter and as such no permission was required from the Court. The Court thus dismissed the review petition on merits finding there to be no error apparent on the face of judgment which may require exercise of power of review. 34. At this stage it is also worth noticing that some complaint was made by an ex Executive Engineer of U.P. Jal Nigam to the State Government on 22.03.2017 and the State Government on 13.07.2017 referred the matter to the Special Investigation Team (SIT). The SIT submitted a preliminary investigation report on 18.03.2018 finding prima facie case, it appears against the officials of the Corporation and officials of the outsourcing agency M/s. Aptech Limited and resultantly first information report (FIR) was lodged by it on 25.04.2018 with the approval of the preliminary investigation report by the Principal Secretary (Home), Government of U.P. 35. The Corporation still not satisfied with the judgment, thought it not appropriate to go in for exercise as was mandated in the order of the High Court dated 28.11.2017 affirmed in judgment on review petition order, but to assail the judgment before the Supreme Court again and accordingly filed SLP which later on was converted into Civil Appeal No. 11017 to 11018 of 2018. 36. This time when the matter came up before the Court on 20.08.2018 the Court put a query to the appellants now respondents herein in these above petitions, about status of inquiry or exercise, if any, undertaken to identify tainted candidates so as to segregate them from untainted candidates. The Court required the appellant to furnish status on affidavit. The Corporation since had yet not taken any such exercise now wrote to the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur and Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad on 31.08.2020 to furnish information qua the possibility to segregate tainted from untainted candidates amongst selected and appointed against posts of Assistant Engineers and pleaded urgency, it appears in view of the fact that 20.09.2018 was fixed in the matter before the Supreme Court. 37. Interestingly, this time the information was sought only in the matter of selection of Assistant Engineers from both the institutes and the information came to be furnished by IIIT, Allahabad and by IIT, Kanpur. 38. During the investigation, the SIT not only looked into the statements so recorded of those officials of Corporation, members of interview board and officials of M/s. Aptech Limited who were in helm of affairs as far as the selection process was concerned but also tried to collect material evidence so as to arrive at a definite conclusion as to alleged irregularities committed in conducting CBT. 39. As a sequel to the above, the agency obtained order from a Judicial Magistrate to seize the computer hard disks that were stationed in the local environment office of M/s. Aptech at Mumbai and this was done on the basis of statements of the officials of Aptech Limited recorded by SIT. Investigating team arrived at Mumbai and seized the hard disks and prepared seizure memo in three dates i.e. 10.09.2018, 11.09.2018 and 12.09.2018. They obtained also certificates of officials Mr. Roman Fernandes and Mr. Neeraj Mallik qua factum of seizure of hard disks from the premises of M/s. Aptech Limited and sent the same to Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Hyderabad on 23.10.2018. Four times reports were sought by the SIT from CFSL and ultimately it relied upon last two reports dated 11.12.2019 and 22.01.2020. SIT also looked into the report submitted by Aptech and ultimately arrived at a conclusion that there were sufficient evidence to indicate those named in the FIR to have committed criminal offence under Sections 409 , 420 , 201 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 123 IPC read with Section 31-A of Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 66 of Information and Technology Act in connection with the FIR in case crime no. 2 of 2018 and the charge sheets filed are numbered as 02 of 2021, 2-A of 2021 and 2-B of 2021 against the 8, 4 and 3 persons respectively. 40. Upon the charge sheet so filed, the Court has already taken cognizance in various dates like 24.05.2021, 12.08.2021 and 20.12.2021 but the Court is informed of a fact that charges have yet not been framed. In respect of one Bhavesh Jain, an officer of M/s. Aptech the Lucknow Bench of this Court has already quashed the charge sheet which of course is a subject matter of challenge before the Supreme Court in a pending SLP. 41. In the second round of litigation before the Supreme Court all those issues raised before the Division Bench of this Court in the first round of litigation resulting in the judgment dated 28.11.2017 affirmed in SLP by the judgment of Supreme Court dated 16.03.2018, were re-agitated during hearing before the Supreme Court at the strength of reports of experts of Institutes of Technology that were available by that time. Emphasis was laid before the Supreme Court upon these reports obtained from IIT, Kanpur and IIIT, Allahabad to take a plea that since original data was deleted from the primary source cloud server of the CtrlS the authenticity of the data downloaded by the Aptech and kept in local environment was questionable, inasmuch as, the report submitted by the CFSL, Hyderabad, confirmed this position of tampering with the data by citing examples of those candidates who had been shown in the data retrieved from the hard disks to have secured lesser marks in CBT. The inflated marks actually provided to them to facilitate their participation in interview to offer them appointments. A plea was also taken before the Supreme Court that M/s. Aptech Limited itself had acknowledged the fact that there has been change in the final results may be on the ground of incorrect/ wrong questions and answers being identified but in the total circumspect of the events that had led the second round of litigation before the Supreme Court, there left no possibility in sight to segregate tainted from untainted. 42. Thus, plea taken before the Supreme Court was that in matters where the selection process was too vitiated to be reckoned with, the individual notices were not required in view of the settled legal position. 43. Considering the arguments advanced on behalf of the rival parties before Supreme Court, the Court held the Corporation to be in serious error in not complying with the directives of the High Court in its first judgment dated 28.11.2017. The Court held that it was mandatory for the Corporation to have first complied with the order in terms of the observations made in the said judgment but at the same it may take into consideration the reports including the previous reports and such other relevant material and documents that were available to it. However, the Court clarified that it was not dilating in any manner upon the efficacy of the opinions rendered by the Professors of the Institutes of Technology. Supreme Court, therefore, in its second order passed on 15.11.2018 again declined to interfere or dilute its earlier position as was in its earlier order dated 16.03.2018 and commanded the Corporation to do the needful in the matter in letter and spirit of the previous judgment of Division Bench of the High Court. Relevant part of the judgment is reproduced: 14.	The limited plea taken before this Court as noted in the first paragraph of order dated 16th March, 2018 was to allow the appellants to re-work the question and answer sheets and revise the merit list and issue fresh, reasoned order after providing opportunity of hearing to the affected candidates. That option has been kept open. It is for the appellants to pursue the same. In other words, the appellants must, in the first place, act upon the decision of the High Court dated 28th November, 2017 whereby the order passed by the Chief Engineer dated 11th August 2017 has been quashed and set aside. The appellants may then proceed in the matter in accordance with law by passing a fresh, reasoned order. Indeed, while doing so, the appellants may take into consideration the previous inquiry reports as also all other relevant material/documents which have become available to them. We make it clear that we have not dilated on the efficacy of the opinion given by the experts of "IIIT Allahabad and IIT Kanpur". 15.	In view of the above, the challenge to the impugned judgment dated 28th November, 2017 and 25th July, 2018 must fail but with a clarification that the competent authority of Nigam is free to pass a fresh, reasoned order in accordance with law. 16.	We may not be understood to have expressed any opinion either way on the merits of the course of action open to the appellants against the respondents including against the other appointees under the same selection process. All questions in that behalf are left open. 17.	The appeals along with all the interlocutory applications are disposed of in the above terms. No order as to costs." 44. From this direction issued in the second judgment by the Supreme Court, the Corporation drew an inference that it was open for it to consider entire issue afresh and based upon its understanding of facts and the findings in inquiry reports including SIT report, it again proceeded to hold that it was not possible to draw any line between the tainted candidates and untainted candidates for the fraud and conspiracy lying in the root of selection itself. Thus, it concluded that it was not possible to save the selection in support of those candidates who had already been offered appointment and given joining. According to the orders so passed on 20.03.2020, though separately passed but identically framed in respect of Assistant Engineers, Junior Engineers and Routine Grade Clerks, it was in order to ensure public trust maintained in process of selection in public employment as to its sanctity that it became imperative to annul the entire selection process and cancel the appointments. It is these orders that are challenged before this Court in this bunch of petitions filed by 56 Assistant Engineers of different trades, 367 Junior Engineers of different trades and 26 Routine Grade Clerks. 45. I have been informed that identical set of petitions have also been filed by some other candidates who were aggrieved by the orders before Lucknow Bench of this Court at Lucknow. 46. It is again pertinent to mention here at this stage that when the order was passed on 02.03.2020 there was already a contempt petition pending before the Supreme Court being Contempt Petition (Civil) No. 625-26 of 2019 regarding act and conduct of the respondents in not giving joining to those already selected and appointed employees in the three categories pursuant to the judgment of Division Bench of this Court dated 28.11.2017, the Assistant Engineers also filed writ petition before the Supreme Court questioning the order dated 02.03.2020. It appears that since issue of segregation of tainted and untainted candidate was yet not resolved and many facts had intervened due to various reports and the question as to whether segregation was possible or not was yet to be decided and that in the meanwhile the respondents had taken decision that it was not possible, the Court did not find prima facie case for contempt to have been made out. However, on the question of legality of the order, since matter was already engaging attention of this Court in various petitions filed here before this Court, Supreme Court directed those writ petitioners in the category of Assistant Engineers to also approach the High Court to get their matter also adjudicated with pending petitions. Thus, the Court disposed of the matter on 03.06.2021 asking the petitioners to approach the High Court and dismissed the contempt petitions pending before it discharging notices. Relevant part of the order is reproduced as under: 73. There shall be no order as to costs. All pending interlocutory applications stand disposed of in terms of this judgment." 47. Before Mr. Khare, learned Senior Advocate could have led the arguments for petitioners on merits, Mr. Goyal, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the Corporation put a point that in matters of Assistant Engineers, Junior Engineers and that of Routine Grade Clerks should all be separately decided as they were separate writ petitions filed by these category of employees and they involved different set of facts. 48. Meeting the above submission, Mr. Khare took the plea that since reasons assigned in all the three impugned orders are identical touching the selection process which was undertaken by the same outsourced agency M/s. Aptech Limited and the same set of data has been analysed, may be by the CFSL but inquiries and investigations have been held collectively in respect of entire selection process, the legal issues that arise for consideration of this Court are also identical. It was also pleaded before the Court that previous round of litigation either before the High Court or Supreme Court, the controversy remained the same. 49. Upon a pointed query, Mr. Goyal could not dispute these above facts and hence matters are proceeded with to be decided in respect of all the three categories of employees together. Arguments raised for petitioners 50. Assailing the order impugned in this bunch of writ petitions Sri Ashok Khare, learned Senior Advocate raised following arguments: 51. In support of his first argument, Mr. Khare submitted that in the judgment of Division Bench dated 28.11.2017 it had been very specifically held that "no exercise was undertaken to distinguish the case of tainted and non tainted candidates to arrive at a conclusion while passing the order impugned" and so the orders were set aside. Mr. Khare therefore, argues that this should be taken as a mandate contained in the order itself that a wholesome exercise was needed to be undertaken by the respondent Corporation to distinguish the cases of tainted from non tainted candidates. Sri Khare submits that while Special Leave Petition was preferred, the Court had declined to interfere with the order on the ground that nothing contained in the order of Division Bench may have had restrained the U.P. Jal Nigam, Lucknow to rework the merit list on the basis of the corrections brought in the CBT result, provided of course, the High Court had agreed to the same. However, the review petition filed before the Division Bench was rejected and upon second time the SLP being filed, the Court inquired from the Corporation who were appellants therein, as to what exercise was undertaken pursuant to the order of Division Bench. This order was passed while entertaining the SLP on 20.08.2018, according to Mr. Khare, indicated very well that the Supreme Court wanted an exercise to be undertaken by the respondents and it was thereafter only that the respondent Corporation proceeded to obtain opinion from the technical Institutes like Institutes of Technology. Mr. Khare has submitted that even the letter dated 31.08.2018 written to two IITs clearly stipulated that opinion was sought for only to clarify as to whether it was possible to segregate tainted from untainted candidates and interestingly this opinion was sought by making a declaration that original data was deleted from the primary source server by the Aptech Limited. According to Mr. Khare this statement of fact was made with a deliberate intention to mislead IITs otherwise the letter would have simply asked for a fair opinion upon the data contained in CDs supplied and if need be to connect to the Aptech limited through Corporation. Mr. Khare has submitted that since Supreme Court had fixed 20.09.2018 in the SLP by which time the Corporation was to furnish the status report and since by 20.08.2018, Corporation had not undertaken any exercise, it proceeded in a hot haste to somehow get an opinion so that it might not be held guilt for non compliance of the judgment of this Court despite its affirmation by the Supreme Court, previously. Even the IITs were not given sufficient time to form a view, inasmuch as, the experts were merely Associate Professors who were entrusted with the task to exercise the material and render their opinion on the basis of data made available by the Corporation in the form of CDs. 52. Mr. Khare further submitted that the opinion was sought only in respect of the examination conducted, result prepared, qua vacancies of Assistant Engineers only. Mr. Khare submitted that even the data that was recovered by the SIT which was sent for examination to the CFSL was not made available to the IITs by seeking permission from the court if it was at all custodia legis. 53. Besides above, Mr. Khare has further argued that Aptech Limited itself has taken a stand in the counter affidavit vide its paragraph nos. 7, 8 & 9 in the matter of writ petition of Ambrish Kumar Pandey that the original data base was kept secured by the Aptech Limited. Thus, according to Mr. Khare as was mandated in the judgment of High Court affirmed by Supreme Court, it required the Corporation to have undertaken an exhaustive exercise to get the original hard disks examined by the forensic experts before furnishing any report to the Supreme Court and it would have also helped the Corporation to have confirmed opinion as to whether the data seized and recovered from Aptech agency from its local environment, was a mirror image of the original data earlier available on the primary source cloud server or not. 54. Mr. Khare has further reiterated his earlier stand that the Professors of IIT and IIITs were required to give their opinion only to the extent whether segregation was possible or not on the basis of data base provided by the Aptech Limited. Mr. Khare has submitted that manner in which letter was drafted and addressed to the IITs that original data was deleted from the cloud server, it was something like giving a clue to the experts that nothing remained to be verified about as all the data available was a secondary data. So according to Mr. Khare, there was a limited query made to the IITs which were replied and possibly no expert would have taken a different view or could have expressed different opinion as was expressed by the Associate Professors of IITs for the format of letter and accompanied material placed before them. 55. In support of his second argument, Mr. Khare has drawn the attention of the Court to the relevant provisions as contained in the Information and Technology Act, 2000 (for short IT Act ) which vide its Chapter XII-A provides for examination of electronic evidence. Mr. Khare has placed emphasis upon Section 9-A of the Act that provided for the authority to specify vide notification in the Official Gazette any department,body or agency of the Central Govt. or State Govt. for examination of electronic evidence. According to Mr. Khare the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has already notified on 29.08.2022 agencies like Forensic Wing Lab and Defence Cyber Agency (DCA), Rajaji Marg, New Delhi as examiner of electronic evidence within India. He has submitted that under Section 45-A of the erstwhile Indian Evidence Act, 1872 and corresponding Section 39(2) of new Bhartiya Sakshya Adhiniyam, such electronic devices are admissible in law as electronic evidence and so the reports are liable to be proved by registered and approved forensic experts in a court of law proceedings. In this regard, Mr. Khare has also taken the court to the provisions framed by the Delhi High Court under its rules as to admissibility of such electronic evidence. 56. In support of his third argument Mr. Khare submitted that Associate Professor of IIIT, Allahabad in his final report clarifies that observations are subject to conditions that all documents and data shared with the undersigned had a verified provinence and responses provided by the personnel made available for interaction with the undersigned on the relevant dates. 57. He has further argued that before arriving at a conclusion the experts proceeded on an assumption that U.P. Jal Nigam believed that over all testing process had been compromised and since the Court had asked the Corporation to segregate the tainted from untainted candidates, it implied that court had accepted the assertions of U.P. Jal Nigam to the effect that over all recruitment process had been compromised. According to Mr. Khare the opinion proceeded since on these very misplaced assumptions, it easily formed a view that in the absence of any hash value and checksum information as to students' response being provided qua the CD given to it for verification, no definite opinion could have been expressed about the data integrity qua selection process. In the circumstances, the original hard disks ought to have been provided or Corporation should have organized meeting of Aptech Limited with Professors of IITs. The entire conclusion according to Mr. Khare therefore, in the reports are just speculative and conjectural and no prudent man would have any doubt about that after going through the opinions expressed by the Associate Professor of IIIT, Allahabad. 58. Mr. Khare has argued that on similar lines the IIT, Kanpur had also submitted its report and having got encouraged by these two reports obtained in respect of Assistant Engineers CBT and the selection held, the Corporation proceeded to obtain opinion qua CBT conducted in respect of Junior Engineers and identical opinions similar reports were also given qua Junior Engineers and RGCs. 59. Mr. Khare submitted in support of his third argument that except for technical opinions expressed by the Associate Professors, there was no other material available with the Corporation to examine the sanctity of the examination nor was there any genuine effort made in that direction to get verified data integrity though experts agencies approved by appropriate government under Information Technology Act, 2000 . 60. On the point of checksum information and hash value which remained wanting for the experts of IITs, Mr. Khare has referred to certain literature in that regard. According to Mr. Khare, hash value is a digital finger print provided to decode encrypted data. It is a digital key to unlock a data which is provided in encrypted form but it depends uopn which kind of data is supplied. If the data has been created and downloaded from the main source server then it creates a hash value so that the data integrity may be verified at a later stage by applying the same. For a set of data, a particular hash value is provided and any modification of data would change the hash value but this would arise only in the event secured data is provided with a hash value. Mr. Ashok Khare, learned Senior Advocate has relied upon the work and literature namely digital fingerprint for investigation and cases involving electronic evidence by the Ovie Carroll and a treatise in the name of Electronic Evidence, old edition by Steaphon Mezon and Denial Sen which refers to hash value as a kind of digital fingerprint which is required to be put to forensic examination for the reason that a professional understands what the tool to be used to unlock the device perform the relevant task and also manner and method in which a computer device is required to be examined forensically so as to return a finding as to data integrity. Since the result processing data was there provided by the Aptech to the U.P. Jal Nigam which in turn was forwarded to the Professors for verification and examination, then in that event, if the checksum information and the hash value is lacking, the proper course would have been for the Corporation to have asked for it from the Aptech itself or to have brought the Aptech in touch with the Professors of IITs. Still further as Mr. Khare argues, once the data was seized from the local environment of the Aptech Limited then best course was to provide the Professors access to this data but the Corporation having not done so, committed manifest illegality and in such circumstances a mere expressed opinion by the Professors of the IITs for want of requisite material cannot be itself a ground to annul the entire selection and appointments made. 61. In respect of fourth argument regarding SIT report, much emphasis was laid upon which in the orders impugned, Mr. Khare submits that police report is only limited to the extent of taking cognizance by a Court of law. A Court may take cognizance upon it or may not, but for mere cognizance taken upon the such police report, the police report does not acquire an evidenciary value and even the statements recorded by the police tracing its power to Section 161 of Cr.P.C., are not admissible in evidence. Mr. Khare submitted that although these reports could have been taken on their face value so as to arrive at some conclusion on the principle of preponderance of probability as to the allegation made regarding conduct of CBT, these reports cannot conclusively form basis, nor can be treated to be conclusive proof of charge. He therefore, argues that the Corporation having relied heavily upon the SIT report in arriving at a conclusion that the entire selection process was marked by gross irregularity and illegality, has manifestly erred in law. 62. On CFSL report, Mr. Khare has argued that when the Corporation itself doubted the integrity of data whether seized by the police or provided by the Aptech Limited, it should not be acceptable. Whatever material was placed before the Forensic Lab had been examined by it but the manner in which the 4th time report was called by the Investigating Team proved itself that the forensic lab itself was not sure about the data to furnish the information as required by the SIT. 63. According to him, even though 169 candidates have been shown in the CFSL report to have been awarded inflated marks so as to make them qualify for interview but the data integrity being questionable, it cannot be said that these 169 candidates were really tainted. Mr. Khare further argued that only point was whether any process was undertaken to segregate tainted from untainted candidates or not and if independent of the SIT report, there was no exercise undertaken and in the face of the fact that only opinion was sought which was rendered as such clarifying their own stand by experts for limited material supplied, the order impugned cannot be sustained in law. 64. In support of his 5th argument Mr. Khare submitted that there was no charge found established either against the constituent members of the interview Board or against any of the candidates as far as SIT report is concerned. Mr. Khare argues that except for the police investigation, there was no independent investigation or inquiry as such from any individual constituent member of interview board so as to elicit from them whether they were under pressure or undue influence to award marks to particular category of candidates, particular caste of candidates or candidates belonging to a particular religion, nor there is any charge sheet filed against any of the constituent members of the board. Even none of the candidates to whom it could have been said that they having indulged in corrupt practice made the selection process questionable, has been charge sheeted. According to him, had there been any remote possibility of involvement of any candidate in the corrupt practice so as to take undue advantage for belonging to a particular caste, group or religion, the police must have laid its hand upon such candidates at least those who have been selected and given appointment, but the SIT report gives a complete clean chit on this score by neither chargesheeting any member of interview board, nor any of the candidates who had been selected and appointed. Thus, on this count also the decision taken by the Corporation cannot be sustained. 65. In support of his last argument, Mr. Khare has submitted that issues to the effect that in absence of prior sanction from the Government by the Board of U.P. Jal Nigam to fill up the vacancies in question or that there was non availability of vacancies that have been filled up by holding selection and giving appointments, were no more open for the Corporation as in the first judgment of the Division Bench all these arguments were negatived and that judgment came to be upheld by the Supreme Court in its first judgment dated 16.03.2018 and then again judgment of Supreme Court in the second round of litigation. Both the judgments if conjointly read, give a decent burial to these issues. Even the issue of offering appointment a day or two before the notification of the model code of conduct, according to Mr. Khare remained no more alive for the Corporation to give any consideration much less a thoughtful consideration while passing the order impugned. 66. To sum up the arguments and the submissions advanced by Mr. Khare on behalf of the petitioners before this Court, according to him, the Corporation failed to undertake any exercise worth a genuine exercise to segregate tainted from untainted candidates. Having based its decision upon mere reports obtained from the Associate Professors of IITs having no accredition to conduct forensic examination of electronic/ computer data based records under the Information Technology Act, 2000 and police investigation report, it misdirected itself in arriving at a conclusion that there was no possibility to segregate tainted from untainted candidates and hence no notices were required to be issued to selected and appointed candidates, for cancelling their respective appointments. 67. Mr. Khare further submits that these appointments were made in 2017 and they have continued for 3 years time and during entire their service period except for the fact that SIT investigation was going on and some in-house inquiries were previously conducted, there was no evidence that could be said to have surfaced out regarding involvement of such employees in the selection process to get appointment orders. 68. Taking the plea of innocence on principle of equity further Mr. Khare has submitted that defective questions answers were in such a miniscule that those defective questions or answers could not have been taken to be sufficient enough to form a definite view that selection process was vitiated for any serious irregularity. According to him, whether it is a case of Assistant Engineer or a case of Junior Engineer or even Routine Grade Clerk, such defective questions and answers count to be 2 to 3% only. 69. In support of all his above submissions upon different arguments raised and noted above, Mr. Khare has relied upon following authorities: 70. Mr. Ashish Mishra, learned Advocate who is appearing in a number of writ petitions filed on behalf of Junior Engineers and Routine Grade Clerks both hear at Allahabad and its Lucknow Bench, has though adopted the arguments of Mr. Khare but has further added following more arguments: 71. In support of his first submission Mr. Ashish Mishra, learned counsel appearing for the petitioners has taken the Court to the advertisement issued on 28th October, 2016 for the post of Junior Engineer (Civil) brought on record as Annexure- 2 to the writ petition being Writ - A No.- 4572 of 2020, which laid down exhaustive guidelines not only for the purposes of filling up the application form, submission of fee, eligibility criteria but also the mode of selection. He submits that vide clause 8 and 9 of the advertisement it provided that on the basis of CBT result the interview shall be held. In the first leg, CBT test will be held on multiple choice option format with 80 questions, each question shall have one mark and it is on the basis of CBT test that merit list shall be prepared for candidates to be called for interview accordingly and in the second leg, the interview shall be held which would be of 20 marks for Assistant Engineer & Junior Engineer and 25 marks for Routine Grade Clerk and the final merit list/ select list will be prepared by adding marks obtained in the interview with those marks obtained in the written examination and this, according to him, does not refer to any such procedure which may be said to have made it compulsory for the examination conducting body to upload master answer key or response sheet of the candidates. He further submits that even earlier in the year 2013-2015 when selection was held by U.P. Jal Nigam itself on posts of Assistant Engineer and Junior Engineer on the basis of online CBT, no master answer key was uploaded. 72. Taking the argument further Mr. Mishra has argued that this selection in question was held in the year 2016 and in those days even the master answers keys were not ordinarily published what to say about the response sheet. He submits that even the agreement signed between the corporation and M/s Aptech Ltd. clearly demonstrated that answer key would be published but the M/s Aptech would act ultimately in accordance with the instructions received from the corporation and nothing is coming out from the pleadings raised in the counter affidavit of corporation that before declaration of final select list, any correspondence took place between the corporation and M/s Aptech Ltd. to publish the master answer key. He submits that an exhaustive procedure was provided under the advertisement to hold selection step by step and so notes contained therein and the guidelines prescribed, amounted to complete brochure itself in respect of the selection and appointments and the corporation cannot be permitted to raise an argument that the advertisement did not provide the procedure exhaustively to be followed in holding the selection for the post in question. 73. Referring to the CFSL report Mr. Ashish Mishra submitted that the report itself evidences that original data seized in the hard-disks from the local environment office of the M/s Aptech Ltd. consisted of one hard-disk with mirror image data of CtrlS, whereas back up file was in one hard-disk and four hard-disk were relating to processing data. According to him, the report itself discloses that this data related to all the candidates, who had participated in the CBT conducted in respect of different posts in the categories Assistant Engineer, Junior Engineer and Routine Grade Clerk and which all was analized by retrieving through the Data Recovery Tools. 74. He submits that report has very immaculately been drawn as to the data retrieved, analysed after due comparative study with the data provided by the SIT in respect of the candidates, who were called for interview and then it was all compressed and saved in the folder name 'CBT Comparison' in the DVD that was duly marked by the laboratory. 75. Mr. Mishra further submits that once entire data was retrieved and then was kept in folder in a DVD which was also provided with a 'hash value' and also contained a scanned copy of the documents provided by the SIT for the purposes of comparison, then it does not lie in the mouth of the corporation to suggest even that sufficient data was not available or the data was not worth trust for want of due verification. 76. Mr. Mishra strenuously argued that it would have been a different case in the event this data analysed by CFSL was further forwarded to the forensic experts under the Information Technology Act, 2000 for further examination but as the the records reveal, according to him, this data compressed in DVD remained in the custody of SIT and the corporation never endeavoured to get it from SIT to accompany the CD/ DVD obtained from M/s Aptech even to the Institutes of Technology, Kanpur and Institutes of Information Technology, Allahabad. 77. Thus, according to Mr. Mishra, the proper analysis of the data retrieved from the hard-disk, one of which was a mirror image of the data of primary cloud server of the CtrlS, Mumbai, the original source server, had been put to rigorous analysis by a forensic lab and the report prepared by it was never put to challenge, this should have been taken as sufficient material itself to be discussed in the order impugned so as to draw a conclusion as to whether tainted candidates could have been segregated from untainted or not. 78. Mr. Mishra submits that 169 candidates, who had been shown in the documents provided by the SIT to have obtained marks which upon verification by CFSL were found to be given more than the original marks contained in the data base, clearly established that these 169 candidates did not deserve to be called for interview as per the CBT merit list of M/s Aptech Ltd. and these candidates, therefore, can very well be placed in the category of tainted candidates. A further verification could have been done by the corporation to cross check it but this having not been done, the corporation could have proceeded to delist these 169 candidates and in lieu thereof candidates who deserved to be called for interview as per the merit list/ revised list ought to have been given opportunity. According to Mr. Mishra a decision to arrive at a conclusion that there was no possibility to segregate the tainted from untainted candidates as per the mandate of Division Bench of this Court, a misplaced judgment seeing the material available with the corporation and hence the findings so returned in the order impugned are perverse and unsustainable. 79. Mr. Mishra further submits that these candidates who were in merit but fell in untainted category but were offered appointments and have worked for 3 years with the establishment and there being no complaint as such regarding their work and conduct and since the rules applicable to the employees of the corporation provided for a period of probation of two years and there was no such order passed by the competent authority of corporation extending probation period, such employee should be taken to have acquired permanent status and could not have been removed except for a disciplinary proceeding. But this is not a case in hand, all that has come up against them is that they have been axed only for a finding returned and that too based upon no such substantive material to hold that their selection itself vitiated for gross irregularities committed in the selection process. 80. Mr. Mishra cite cases where appointments have been offered to a candidate after selection, a different parameter and yardsticks was to be applied than in those cases where though selection had taken place but no appointment orders was issued. He argues that the legal position is well settled that no one even placed in the merit list has a vested right to get an appointment but once candidate gets an appointment order after selection then he gets at least a vested right to be heard before he is fired and that too on the ground that appointments have been made for gross irregularity and illegality in the selection process. 81. In support of all above submissions, Mr. Mishra, learned counsel for the petitioner has placed reliance upon following authorities in addition to the authorities already cited by Mr. Khare: 82. Mr. Mishra has also placed reliance upon the judgment in the case of Prem Lata v. State of Tamilnadu of Madras High Court in Writ Petition No.- 19939 of 2014 decided on 17th November, 2022 (Paragraph 89) 83. Citing the judgment of Division Bench of this Court in the case of Kapil Kumar (supra), taking the plea that if the candidates upon revision of the result in view of the decision upon challenge to questions answers in the CBT examination are found meritorious in the order, such candidates who have already been selected may not be disturbed and adjustment can be made of the candidates of the revised list in accordance with the merit upon other existing available vacancies. He has placed reliance upon the paragraph 30 and 31 of the judgment. 84. Mr. Seemant Singh, learned Advocate appearing for some of the petitioners has also adopted the arguments advanced by Sri Khare and Sri Mishra above and only added this much; in the face of a fact that CFSL report has remained unquestioned till date, this itself was a sufficient material available with the Corporation to arrive at a conclusion as to who are the tainted candidates who could be segregated and taken out of the select list. 85. Mr. Seemant Singh has also emphasised upon the report of Aptech Limited which itself has identified a large number of candidates who did not deserve to be called for interview and yet were called and those who deserved to be called but were not called and this could have been sufficient to rework the merit list of CBT. 86. One more submission has been advanced by Sri Seemant Singh, learned counsel appearing for some of the petitioners that corporation in fact either did not supply the correct data to the institutes of Technology while seeking their opinion regarding Junior Engineer, nor the learned Associate Professors, who were to render opinion did not make sincere attempt to verify the data by asking the corporation to hold consultation with M/s Aptech Limited while giving before enquiry report. He submits that report itself is untenable for the simple reason that it proceeds upon the data concerning Routine Grade Clerks and not Junior Engineers and yet the opinions have come in respect of the CBT of Junior Engineers. 87. 	Sri Seemant Singh in this regard has taken the Court to the report submitted by Associate Professor of Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur Nagar dated 3rd January, 2019. 88. 	Sri Seemant Singh has also argued that in view of the order initially passed on 18th February, 2020 in the matter of Ambarish Kumar Pandey (Writ - A No.- 5912 of 2020), FSL report ought to have been given weightage. It is argued that FSL report since was approved by the Government itself as SIT report based upon the CFSL report was approved, the respondent corporation while considering the matter ought to have given absolute weightage to the CFSL report by discussing the same for identifying and segregating tainted from untainted candidates, which is quite lacking in the order impugned. 89. 	Placing reliance upon the authority of Supreme Court in the case of Ashok Kumar Yadav v. State of Haryana and others , 1997 AIR SC 454, Sri Seemant Singh has submitted that merely for someone has scored better marks in interview than in written examination or vise versa, this itself cannot be a ground to hold that selection process was vitiated for any kind of vested human intervention with an intention to give benefit to a particular caste, creed and religion as has come to be alleged in the counter affidavit. It is submitted that the fact that a candidate obtained marks in a particular written examination and in interview marks appeared to be beyond proportion, unless and until there is intrinsic material available as to any kind of interpolation or tempering of records or any kind of influence being ever exercised upon the interview Board, its constituent members, cannot itself be a ground to hold that selection process stand compromised. 90. Thus, according to Sri Seemant Singh in the event Corporation was not sure about the data, then Corporation ought to have trusted its examination conducting agency in the absence of there being any iota of evidence leading to the charge of corrupt practice at its end in relation to the conduct of CBT in question. He thus, also questions the decision taken by the Corporation to annul the entire selection and appointments. 91. Lastly appearing on behalf of a number of petitioners learned Senior Advocate Mr. Radha Kant Ojha assisted by Mr. Namit Srivastava has argued that once the Aptech Limited had taken a stand that the data was preserved in his Archive NAS at its NOIDA office and it was hundred percent sure of its authenticity and integrity and in the face of the fact that the opinions expressed by the IIT, Kanpur and IIIT, Allahabad, as has been argued by his other colleagues, to be speculative and conjectural, the Archival data should be directed to be examined afresh by the forensic experts so as to rule out any doubt as to sanctity of selection process regarding conduct of the examination of which much hype was created by the Corporation without any basis. 92. Mr. Ojha submits that a number of candidates have already became over aged to apply for selection in any of Government service and in the face of the fact that a large number of candidates deserved to be called for interview if the revised result of the Aptech was accepted and if the FSL report is to be accepted which has not been doubted even by the Corporation till date by challenging it, it would be in the interest of justice that the entire merit list is reworked after the forensic examination is completed. According to him, this will be a correct approach taking holistic view of the matter. In any case, Mr. Ojha has also assailed the order impugned in these petitions for want of proper material to justify the stand taken by the Corporation. 93. There are other learned Advocates appearing for different petitioners in different petitions who have also adopted the arguments already advanced by their senior colleagues at the bar on behalf of the petitioners. 94. Mr. Radha Kant Ojha, learned Senior Advocate assisted by Mr. Namit Srivastava appearing for seven of the petitioners has relied upon the judgments and authorities cited by Mr. Khare and Mr. Mishra. Additionally he has of course, submitted that many of the Assistant Engineers, who have been selected and appointed have gone over-aged for any selection in any other establishment and since they have made it to the merit list and there is no charge against them has come up either in the SIT report or any other inquiry reports, they should not be held responsible for any such alleged irregularity in the selection process. He, however, still submits that in the face of the fact that M/s Aptech Ltd. has come up with the stand that original data still continues to be saved on its archive server NAS, NOIDA place, the same may be directed to be analysed by agency that is approved by appropriate Government under the Information and Technology Act, 2000 and that according to Mr. Ojha would given a complete quietus to the controversy. Arguments raised for the Corporation 95. Meeting the arguments as advanced above by learned Advocates appearing for the petitioners, Mr. Manish Goyal learned Senior Advocate, appearing for the corporation defended the orders impugned in these petitions claiming them to be based upon valid findings arrived at after thorough examination of material available and reasonable appreciation thereof by the concerned authority. 96. According to him, procedure for conducting CBT out by M/s Aptech Limited was adopted against the written agreements reached between the corporation and outsourced agency separately for three sets of examination, i.e. for Routine Grade Clerks on 17.06.2016, for Junior Engineer 28th August, 2016 and for Assistant Engineer on 15th December, 2016 and this breach committed by Corporation qua the agreements has eroded the trust reposed in the agency as to the sanctity of CBT process and integrity of data thereof stored by it. 97. Mr. Goyal submitted that data retention policy much talked about, if ran contrary to the agreements recorded between Corporation and M/s Aptech Ltd., it were the agreements to prevail. Mr. Goyal submitted that Institutes of technology were in these circumstances left with no other alternative in the face of the fact that original data was deleted from the primary source cloud server, but to express their inability to give certificate of authenticity to the data supplied by the agency. According to Mr Goyal, in these circumstances, no definite opinion could have been forward by Institutes of technology as to the correctness of answer sheets not being manipulated and the truthfulness data of result processing not being tempered with. He has placed much emphasis upon the checksum information and 'hash value' digital fingerprints as key to unlock/ access original data and since M/s Aptech Limited failed to provide checksum information and and requisite hash value of the data, no tracking could be made to verify the correctness of candidates' response data to questions, recorded by it. Mr Goyal submitted that it was duty of the service provider to have provided the relevant checksum information and hash value. For the absence of checksum information as to the original response data of the candidate in the examination hall, and in the absence of hash value, it was impossible to verify the records and still further, it became difficult to know as to whether the data provided was the modified one or copy of original one. 98. Mr. Goyal submitted that 'hash value' created once the data is transmitted from original server to a secondary server by the original service provided and this hash value continues to remain constant to decode the original data provided in an encrypted form. Any attempt to have access to the data without information about the 'hash value', would certainly corrupt the original data and any fresh 'hash value' means data is already modified. The hash value is a digital signature put to a data to access it. Mr Goyal submitted that service provider since did not provide the 'hash value', it remained illusive data as to its authenticity and integrity upon transfer to a local environment device. A data Security is always marked by digital fingerprint of the digital signature, as was done by CFSL, Hyderabad consolidating the data retrieved from the original hard disks into a DVD marked as"CAH - 75-2018 - DVD," 99. Mr. Goyal has also argued that it is relevant to refer to the reports of the Associate Professors of IIIT, Allahabad and IIT Kanpur in respect of Assistant Engineers and Junior Engineers. He has argued that from the report submitted by Associate professors, it is clear that they were unable to express any definite opinion/view with regard to the issue of segregation of tainted candidates from the untainted candidates. Mr Goyal also took the Court through the CFSL report, which, according to Mr. Goyal shows that no 'hash value' information was available to the data contained in hard disks that were six in number. 100. Mr. Goyal has put emphasis upon the CFSL report to demonstrate that hard disks that were recovered from the local environment of office of the M/s Aptech Ltd. under the order of the Special Magistrate, Anti-corruption/ Central Bureau of Investigation, Lucknow, with search warrant, were are all sent to Hyderabad on 23rd of October 2018 for forensic examination. He submitted that SIT report, made it clear that these hard disks were though recovered from the office of the Aptech premises, but none of the hard disks contained the 'hash value'. According to Mr. Goyal, if 'hash value' had been assigned to the original data, then while showing certificate at the time of preparation of seizure memo, the officials of the M/s Aptech Ltd. would have given the information regarding hash value, but no such information was given qua the hard disks that contained according to the certificate by Official of the M/s Aptech Ltd, a mirror image of the original data downloaded from the primary source cloud server CtrlS is stored, nor the hard disks had the system logs. 101. Elaborating further the definition of 'hash value', Mr Goyal submitted that hash value or checksum information is provided to decode the data contained in the hard disk or such other device. He has referred to a famous treatise, namely, Electronic Evidence: Disclosure, Discovery & Admissibility, First Edition by Stephen Mason, in which vide paragraph of 3.16, the details are given for preserving digital data evidence. The relevant paragraph runs as under: Mr. Goyal has also referred to paragraph 3.34, which runs as under under. 102. In view of the above, Mr Goyal has argued that material evidence would have been collected from the electronic device or computer device provided the hash value information or checksum information was provided by the custodian of data which in the present case was certainly M/s Aptech Ltd. 103. Mr. Goyal submitted that according to the data retention policy brought on record by M/s Aptech Ltd., it was clear that Mr. Fernandes was in the helm of affairs and when he was issuing certificate regarding hard disks seized by the police from the local environment, he must have been in possession of this necessary information as well. According to Mr.Goyal any prudent man in these given facts and circumstances, while material is being seized from his possession, would have certainly known that police would send these materials collected or seized for forensic examination to present this as crucial electronic evidence in a court of law proceeding, and therefore, in all fairness the officials of the M/s Aptech Ltd. should have also shared necessary checksum information and 'hash value' of the data retrieved or downloaded from the original cloud server. Thus, according to Mr. Goyal, this crucial information was deliberately withheld by M/s Aptech Ltd. to cover up its misdeeds committed in the matter of selection in question, may be in connivance and conspiracy with certain officials of the Corporation who facilitated tampering of final results before entry in computer's modified data. It is thus tampering with original select list of the CBT that facilitated, according to Mr. Goyal, undeserving candidates to participate in interview showing exit door to the deserving candidates. Mr. Goyal, thus emphatically argued that entire selection process was undoubtedly compromised to select and then offer appointments on pick and chose basis. 104. Referring to the report of the Chief Engineer dated 29.05.2017, Mr. Goyal has taken the court to the finding part of it that records that appointments were required to be made by the State Government and not by the corporations because sanction to the post was to be accorded only by the State Government and not Managing Director of the UP Jal Nigam, until and unless the regulations were amended. According to Mr Goyal, Corporation had no authority to advertise the posts to undertake any recruitment drive. Mr Goyal has further taken the Court to clause 11 of the report that takes out extract from the merit appended as annexure 15 and as per extracts, it included 22 such candidates who, according to the report were though called for interview, but were given highly excessive marks by the interview board. The example of, Mohammed Shams has been cited, who in the eligibility column could only score 3 out of 4 marks but towards technical knowledge, personality and power of expression, he was awarded full marks. So was also the case cited of another candidate Gaurav Kumar Verma, who was though not selected, was also awarded only three marks towards eligibility but was awarded full marks towards technical knowledge and personality and capacity of expression. These are the two instances only as per the records made available by the Aptech itself and Mr Goyal submits that this clearly showed how nepotism and bias vitiated the selection process. 105. Referring to another report of the Chief Engineer, level II dated 14, July 2017, Mr Goyal has submitted that 15 objections were received out of 80 questions from the question paper of online examination for the post of Assistant Engineer, Civil and as per the Aptech's own version, 11 objections were correct. Similar was a case in the second inning of the Assistant Engineer, Civil examination in which out of 80 questions, 16 objections were received as per the version of Aptech's, objections were found to be valid. Mr Goyal however, submits that report also recorded that objections regarding seven questions out of same to be correct. Thus, according to the report as Mr Goyal argued, that objection should have been invited to resolve them in the first instance, and thereafter only CBT select list should have been published/notified. Mr. Goyal further argued that according to the report, the defect in framing of questions and preparation of answer key and its assessment was at the level of M/s Aptech Ltd only. 106. According to Mr. Goyal it was indeed a defective way of admitting the select list without publishing the master answer key to invite objections from the candidates. Master Answer Key for the post of Assistant Engineer and Junior Engineer was published only after two months of the declaration of result as results were declared on 03.01.2017, whereas, the master key answer were published on 28.02.2017. Likewise in the case of Routine Grade Clerk the result declared on 24.12.2016 but the master answer key was published on 27.03.2017 and in the case of Junior Engineers the result was declared on 01.01.2017 and the master answer key was published on 14.02.2017. Mr. Goyal submitted that it has never been a practice, nor it should be taken as a healthy practice to first draw the select list on the basis of CBT merit, to hold interview and offer appointments and thereafter only publish the master answer key. It appeared, according to Mr. Goyal, too urgent for certain officials of respondent Corporation who were in the helm of affairs and in conspiracy with the officials of M/s. Aptech Limited to conclude the recruitment drive in a shortest span of time and in any case before the notification of model code of conduct. This is the reason why, Mr. Goyal argues, that within 28 hours to 48 hours of the declaration of final merit list the appointment orders were issued. Mr. Goyal submitted that the hush hush manner in which the entire recruitment driver was expedited to be concluded was all aimed at clearing appointments of preferred candidates of particular caste, religious group before any intervention of law could have taken place. Citing the report of SIT Mr. Goyal submitted that report carries weight in the light of observations made by Division Bench in Special Appeal No. 625 of 2019. Division Bench, according to Mr. Goyal, had very clearly observed that "the Jal Nigam being appointing authority is competent and it is well within its domain to find out whether examination clearly and transparent manner and subject to report of SIT, analysis of Forensic Laboratory and any other material that may be placed before the Jal Nigam to take decision". Mr. Goyal further referred to another observation "it goes without saying that some decision is to be taken in accordance with law for the purpose of finding out possibility of segregation between the tainted and untainted candidates the report of the SIT acquires significance." Now taking the Court to the SIT report, Mr. Goyal submitted that certain statements of officials of M/s. Aptech Limited are very crucial. According to him, the statement of Vishwajeet Singh, Technical and Delivery Head of M/s. Aptech Limited is important as according to him the said Vishwajeet Singh had worked with M/s. Aptech Limited in August 2016 and admitted before the SIT that main task of M/s. Aptech Limited was to prepare questions papers, conduct examinations, the assessment of answer sheets and then final declaration of merit list of CBT. From the SIT report Mr. Goyal has placed before the Court certain questions put to the said Vishwajeet Singh in the matter of Routine Grade Clerks, Junior Engineers and Assistant Engineers. He has also taken the Court to certain queries made regarding placement of server, main server of M/s. Aptech Limited and it was admitted in his statement that M/s. Aptech Limited was working with separate data centre providers namely CtrlS and Net Magic in whose control the data was and they were located in Mumbai. M/s. Aptech Limited according to the statements uses this cloud data. Mr. Goyal submitted that this statement very clearly established that online examination data was consolidated at the cloud server which was later on drawn offline into the local environment server and the result was declared. Entire data though was to be kept for one year as per the agreements which also included online registration data / attendance, biometric data of the candidates, candidates' response data, original question paper and original answer key and also revised answer key. The other data after the revision of answer key was separately to be saved because it interfered with the original data available on the cloud server by way of result processing. These facts directly fell from the mouth of officials of M/s. Aptech Limited and therefore, Mr. Goyal submitted that this should be clearly conceded by M/s. Aptech Limited. Mr. Goyal has also taken the court to the statement of Ajay Kumar Yadav, General Manager of Aptech Limited posted in its office at Lucknow where the question was raised about the process undertaken by the Aptech Limited for declaring result of the candidates and answer given was that the computer based result was provided to Sri P.K. Ashudani, the then Managing Director which was password protected and this data trailed to marks obtained by the candidate. This data was on excel format and thereafter, Mr. Ashudani with the help of one Hemant and Santosh Rastogi who being officers of M/s. Aptech Limited also had access to the password accused it and prepared result and sent it to the Aptech on the basis of which the candidates were invited for interview marks. It was also stated by said Ajay Kumar Yadav that after the interview marks was also obtained in hard copy from Jal Nigam and then adding the marks in computer based results a final select list was prepared. On the question as to whether the result sheet which was provided by Jal Nigam, was ever matched with original primary data available with the Aptech or not, Mr. Ajay Kumar Yadav admitted that it was not matched with the marks present in original data base. Upon another query as to when original data had been deleted from the primary source cloud server then was it not possible that the result provided by the U.P. Jal Nigam might only have been available upon server because M/s. Aptech Limited followed instructions of officers of U.P. Jal Nigam only and contract was not followed, the reply was that since it was multiple department work activity, the departments worked independently and so it was not possible. Upon another query, if U.P. Jal Nigam might have changed the results because the result provided by U.P. Jal Nigam to M/s. Aptech Limited was not matched with the result available in its data base, in reply it was admitted that it could have been possible. On the question of fixing responsibility Mr. Ajay Yadav clearly admitted before SIT that it was the duty of the Aptech to upload the answer key as per the agreement and if it was not done, it was a mistake on the part of the Aptech. Thus, according to Mr. Goyal, from the statements it is clear that Aptech Limited provided the password protected result to the Managing Director who gave access to the others also which should not have been done. The original data of CBT result was completely got tampered with and was provided in the hard copy as well to the Aptech Limited to be uploaded and it was then the candidates were called for interview on that basis. Resultantly those who secured lesser marks were called for interview for inflated marks and those who had secured higher marks were denied the opportunity. 107. In support of his above submission Mr. Goyal has cited the report of Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Hyderabad which is now part of the SIT report. As per the report submitted by the Laboratory, 30 candidates of Assistant Engineer (Civil), 3 candidates of Assistant Engineer (Computer Science), 4 candidates of Assistant Engineer (Electrical & Mechanical), 58 candidates in the category of Junior Engineer (Mechanical) and 53 candidates of Routine Grade Clerk totalling to 169 candidates where such whose CBT result in the original data base was found to be with less marks than in the list provided by the SIT and this led to the only conclusion that the recruitment and selection process was badly compromised. Further the original data was not provided by the Aptech limited even though it was aware of the controversy going on in Court and also subject to enquiry at the level of the Government and the Corporation. 108. Mr. Goyal also refers to the report of M/s. Aptech Limited dated 19.08.2017 brought on record as Annexure No. C.A.-5 to the writ petition of Mr. Surendra Singh being Writ - A No. 4572 of 2020 (relevant para 55) wherein M/s. Aptech Limited itself admitted that certain facts that went to the root of the matter. The report contains a list of 331 candidates of Junior Engineer (Civil) and 148 of Junior Engineer (Electrical/ Mechanical) totalling 475 who were not selected for interview though they deserved after that revised result by M/s. Aptech Limited. According to the report of M/s. Aptech Limited, 656 candidates of different streams of Junior Engineers were wrongly called for interview though they were ineligible to be placed in the CBT merit list and thus they ousted a large number of candidates from the zone of consideration for not being placed in that list. It is though contended by Mr. Goyal that the entire team of M/s. Aptech Limited in conspiracy with its officials of Corporation were neck deep in corruption in the matter of selection qua public employment. The manner and method in which the entire plan was designed to accomplish the task and the manner and method in which a particular section of candidates were awarded deliberately higher marks in interview even though they had scored lesser marks in the examination, it showed that it was all done to somehow facilitate entry of such candidates in interview. These corrupt practices had really adversely affected the opportunities of the genuine candidates who would have acquired placement in the merit list, had the selection been fair. According to Mr. Goyal, all this could not have been rectified and only option was therefore, available to annul the entire selection process. Not one or two but in all six reports besides SIT report, according to Mr. Goyal are there that are indicative of the fact that the entire selection process was unduly influenced by those who were in the helm of affairs as they abused their authority to influence those who interview+ as well as M/s. Aptech Limited. 109. Mr. Goyal emphasises on the point that in the event of systemic fraud in selection process in any competitive examination where applications are invited from open market, it is always necessary to annul the entire selection process in order to restore confidence of people in the system of recruitment. In this regard, he has cited the latest judgment of Supreme Court on the point in the matter of Gohil Deshraj Anubhai and Others v. State of Gujarat & Others , (2017) 13 SCC 621, para 21 & 22 and State of Tamilnadu and Others v. Kalaimuni & Others , (2021) 16 SCC 217, para 14. 110. The assisting counsel to Ms Goyal, Ms. Anjali Goklani, learned Advocate, has placed the relevant paragraph nos. 35, 36, 37, 38, 55 and 56 of the judgment before the Court to canvas the correct legal position in the above regard. Mr. Goyal submitted that the Court dealt with fundamental issue qua process of examination getting vitiated to what extent and submits that the Supreme Court has held that if the irregularities in the process is found to be at systemic level questioning the credibility and legitimacy of the selection process, then such irregularities will be taken to have pervaded the entire domain of selection. Mr. Goyal submitted that in such circumstances notice to candidates individually looses its significance. 111. Mr. Goyal submitted that the Supreme Court considered all these aspects in its celebrated judgment cited above i.e. Gohil Deshraj (supra) and State of Tamilnadu (supra) the above. In the case of State of Tamilnadu and others the Court held that the decision of the board to cancel entire selection process in order to instil confidence in people qua integrity of selection process was justifiable. He emphasised upon principle of judicial review by the High Court and argued that sufficiency of material will not fall within the purview of judicial review. Mr. Goyal vehemently urged that High Court is to only look into the decision making process and if it was not found to be flawed one, the Court will not go into the question of appreciation of material as it stood already examined by the authority concerned. He has submitted that in the judgment of Gohil Deshraj (supra) the principle of primary judicial review has been discussed in extenso and argued that when the action challenged is arbitrary by putting it on the testing anvil of Article 14 of the Constitution, the Court performs a primary review to test the correctness as to the discrimination meted out if any and as to whether it is excessive or it has a nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the Administrator. On the other hand question of proportionality therefore, will arrive between the charge and the action taken by the Administrator. The rationale behind the order and reasonableness could be put to test but the court would then confine itself to secondary role in judicial review as it will only look as to whether an Administrator has done the primary role or not. If the Administrator is found to have accomplished the primary role in arriving at a conclusion considering the relevant factors, then consideration accorded will not fall within the domain of judicial review to raise a question as to sufficiency of material. 112. Mr. Goyal also relied upon another judgment of M/s. Aptech Limited v. U.P. Power Corporation and another , 2019 SCC OnLine All 4906, a judgment of Division Bench of which I was also a member. In order to emphasise a point that where the examination conducting body is a party to the agreement, it was to ensure conduct of examination procedurally as per terms of agreement to ensure confidentiality of its secured data and if it failed procedurally making investigation qua entire selection process as to whether it exposed its hardware and software to human intervention then in such a case it would be inevitably judicious to cancel the entire selection. In the said case, the Division Bench had upheld the order of blacklisting passed against the same service provider Agency. He further submitted that the decision in that case was taken by the State Government relying upon the inquiry report submitted by the STF which had indicted the service provider for deliberate negligence. Reiterating the principle of Wednsebury Reasonableness Mr. Goyal submitted that where the confidence of public is shaken for selection process getting adversely affected for human intervention resulting in irregularities at large affecting a large number of candidates as they lose their chance of success only for manipulations no prudent man would allow such selection to stay. Mr. Goyal placed before the Court para 20, 21, 23, 25, 28 and 30 of the said judgment . Mr. Goyal also cited the judgment in the case of Puneet Bhardwaj v. Delhi State Government being Writ - C No. 15270 of 2022 and the connected matter decided by Delhi High Court on 15.09.2023 and placed paragraph nos. 5, 6, 25, 27, 28, 29, 30 & 31 of the judgment. Mr. Goyal argues that in the above case , two points were raised before the Court: 113. The Court rejected both these arguments on the ground that the entire selection process was surrounded by malpractice and irregularities and so there was nothing wrong in cancelling the entire selection process. It is held that in such circumstances it becomes difficult for the agencies conducting such examination to identify as to how many candidates were engaged in such malpractice and such irregularities. 114. Meeting the point that once the candidates have been selected and given appointments pursuant to which they had submitted their joining and so there should be no cancellation of all the appointments by one stroke of pen without giving them individual notice, Mr. Goyal cited the authority of Madras High Court in the case of R. Premlata and Others vs. State of Tamilnadu and others decided on 17.11.2022 being Writ Petition No. 19939 of 2014. He has placed reliance upon paragraph nos. 69, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84 & 87 of the said judgment. 115. Mr. Goyal submitted, firstly in the said case a retired Judge of Delhi High Court was entrusted with the enquiry in the matter of selection and 152 candidates who were found to be tainted and a finding was returned to the effect that allotment of marks with less experience drastically changed the entire complexion of the selection exercise. Mr. Goyal submits that the findings were that act and conduct of selectors prejudiced the rights and interest of a large number of meritorious candidates who had participated in the selection process and, therefore, these candidates stood deprived of equal opportunity in the matter of selection and appointment as enshrined under the Constitution. Thus, according to Mr. Goyal where it is established that there was a deep rooted corrupt practice leading to manipulations resulting in irregularity in awarding marks to the candidates, it would not affect the non tainted candidates as they would have still a fair chance to compete in future. 116. Giving the example of the present case where 656 undeserving candidates were called for interview as per the own stand of M/s. Aptech Limited who should not have been intervened, Mr. Goyal submits, it goes without saying that a large number of candidates were virtually deprived of their opportunity to participate in interview in getting finally selected. He submits that if total number of vacancies were 800 and plus these 600 and plus candidates would have certainly affected the entire merit list substantially. Mr. Goyal submitted further that as per the CFSL's own report if 169 candidates have taken to be wrongly favoured and hence tainted then it is only one instance where the data was examined by the CFSL and if the entire data was got verified available at primary source server which was a cloud server, the merit list would have been absolutely different but opportunity was not there for data being deleted for primary source cloud server. 117. Thus, according to Mr. Goyal it is an established case of fraud played in the process of selection which has vitiated the entire exercise qua recruitment and the SIT having found the officials of M/s. Aptech Limited to have conspired with the officials of the Corporation, they have all been named in the report which was finally submitted on 22.01.2020 and the court has taken cognizance thereupon under criminal law. 118. Yet another argument was raised on behalf of the Corporation by Mr. Goyal, learned Senior Advocate qua the doctrine of impossibility as would be attracted in the given facts and circumstances of the case. He has argued that select list was so much manipulated in respect of a large number of candidates to be specific post of Junior Engineers, Assistant Engineers and Routine Grade Clerks that it had became impossible for the Corporation to draw a line between selected on merits and the selected fraudulently and those deprived of opportunity. 119. In support of the above doctrine, Ms. Ananya Shukla, learned assisting counsel to Mr. Goyal has placed paragraph nos. 39 and 40 of the authority of Supreme Court in the case of State of Madhya Pradesh v. Narmada Bachao Andolan & others and the connected matters, (2011) 7 SCC 3639 and read out paragraph nos. 39 & 40 of the judgment. It is argued that if for inevitable disability to perform mandatory part of law, in other words performance of formalities prescribed by statute if rendered impossible by the circumstances over which the person entrusted with the task has no control, then non performance of such duty is a valid excuse. It is stated to be the law of natural equity which has been applied down the ages. Yet another judgment of Constitution Bench of Supreme Court in the case of Election Commission, IN Re: Special Reference No. 1, (2002) 8 SCC 237 has been cited which arose out of an election dispute and petition had got rendered infructuous for the reason that tenure of elected person had expired. Ms. Shukla placed paragraph no. 151 of the said judgment in which it was held that "where the law creates a duty or charge and party is doubted to perform it without default in him and has no remedy over it there, the law in general excuse him" this mandatory character of law, it is argued looses its binding effect for there being supervising impossibility caused by an act of God. 120. Applying this principle to the facts of the present case Mr. Goyal submitted, the report of SIT showed that favour was given to a particular caste and religion for the reasons known to the then Minister of Urban Development who happened to be the Chairman of the Board and the officials of U.P. Jal Nigam who all acted in conspiracy and connivance with the service provider agency and this resulted in a large number of candidates getting selected fraudulently and this was all so deeply rooted that right from CBT result to interview and then final preparation of merit list all stood manipulated. Taking the Court to the relevant facts and figures as have been reduced in writing under the SIT report qua category of Assistant Engineer, there were 42 candidates out of 122 selected candidates who were awarded more than 17 and above marks in interview 27 of them belonged to a particular religion and 22 of them found place in the final select list. Similarly a particular caste candidate who were 8 in numbers were awarded 17 and above marks found place in the final select list. In the category of post of Junior Engineer, Mr. Goyal presented the figure according to which total 219 candidates who were awarded 17 and above marks out of 20 in interview, 74 of them belonged to particular religion and 57 of them found place in the merit list and so also the 66 candidates of particular caste out of 219 candidates in total found place in the select list. Again in the category of Routine Grade Clerks 49 candidates were awarded 20 and above marks out of total 25 in interview and 26 candidates out of total selected 52 candidates of particular religion who were awarded 20 marks and above found place in final select list. Similarly 25 candidates of a particular caste out of 49 selected candidates were also awarded 20 and above marks in interview out of 25 were placed in final select list. Mr. Goyal submitted that looking to the time factor involved in conducting the interview of candidates by each board it was clear that the interview board had not much time to assess the total personality of a candidate participating in the interview and hence awarded marks only on pick and chose basis. Mr. Goyal submitted that at least figures speak themselves. In support of his submissions Mr. Goyal has taken the Court to the statement of Mr. Anand Murti Srivastava, the then Superintending Engineer and Sri Chandra Dhar Dubey, the then Superintending Engineer recorded on 31.01.2018 and 01.07.2018 respectively. These statements have been placed before the court only to demonstrate that only time schedule for statement was stated but nothing had been stated as to what time was actually consumed in interview each day or shift. 121. Thus, according to Mr. Goyal, the authority while passing the order has fully appreciated all the reports available to it and has valid justified reasons on facts to cancel the entire selection process. In the decision making process, according to Mr. Goyal, the factors like findings in inquiry reports, the own admission of Aptech in revising the result, not uploading the original master answer key before the select list inviting objections, deleting the date from primary source cloud server, not providing the digital signatures as to the data provided in CDs by Aptech Limited so as to explore the possibility of verifying the data integrity and non compliance of the agreement in selection process by the M/s. Aptech Limited, have all weighed the decision of the authority of the Corporation to conclude that it became absolutely impossible to segregate tainted candidates from untainted candidates. 122. According to Mr. Goyal, the entire selection got so circumstanced by motivated actions of selectors to serve their vested interests that it became impossible to take against out of choff by rewarding the merit and therefore, upon the principle of law laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of Union of India v. O. Chakradhar , (2002) 3 SCC 146, the entire selection and appointments deserved to be cancelled and no notice to candidates individually. 123. Mr. Goyal has taken to the details of the report of Institutes of Technology summarised in the counter affidavit vide para 85 in Writ Petition No. 4572 of 2020, Surendra Singh & Another vs. State of U.P. & Others. 124. Mr. Sanjay Kumar Om, learned counsel appearing for the U.P. Jal Nigam (Rural) has adopted the arguments advanced by Mr. Manish Goyal, learned Senior Advocate. Additionally he has submitted that corporation undertook a very exhaustive exercise in going through various reports that were available to it and examined the same very minutely to arrive at a conclusion, genuinely drawn, that entire selection process was too vitiated to be reckoned with. According to him, the illegalities and irregularities in selection process were so deeply rooted that it became impossible to form separate buckets of tainted and unstained candidates as was directed by Division Bench of this Court in its earlier judgment dated 28th November, 2017. 125. Thus, according to him, the judgment of the authority of the corporation to annul the entire selection process and consequently the appointments do not suffer from vice of flow in the decision making process and hence this Court may not exercise its power of judicial review to interfere with orders impugned in these petitions. 126. Mr. Aditya Bhushan Singhal and Mr. Vimlesh Kumar Rai, learned Advocates appearing for U.P. Jal Nigam (Urban) are assisting counsel to Mr. Goyal and adopted all his arguments. Arguments raised for the State of Uttar Pradesh 127. Leading the arguments on behalf of State of U.P. Mr. Ajeet Kumar Singh, learned Additional Advocate General assisted by Sri Amit Verma, learned Standing Counsel argued that there was no direction taken from the Finance Department to hold selection and appointment against the post in question in the U.P. Jal Nigam. According to him, the power lay with the Board and not the Chairman as per Section 7(3) and 8 of U.P. Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1975. According to him the Board which was empowered to take decision being competent authority recognized under the statute, had never taken a decision to make selection and appointment. He submitted further that the then Minister being in the capacity of ex officio Chairman of the Board of U.P. Jal Nigam proceeded to hold selection and appointment at his own discretion. 128. Upon a pointed query being made as to why the original data was not collected from the archives NAS NOIDA placed office of Aptech Limited while the SIT was conducting investigation and even the service provider agency had written to it regarding the same, Mr. Singh submitted that it was the duty of SIT to have conducted investigation further in the light of letter, if any written by M/s.Aptech Limited and he cannot make any submission regarding stand of SIT to confine itself to recovery of the hard disk from the local environment office Mumbai of M/s. Aptech Limited. However, he supported the findings arrived at by the SIT during the investigation regarding gross irregularity and illegality committed in the selection process and so resultant appointments offered to less meritorious candidates. He thus, sought to defend the orders impugned here in these petitions. 129. On other legal aspects involved in the case Mr. Singh has adopted the arguments advanced by learned Senior Advocate appearing for the Corporation Mr. Goyal. Additionally, of course, he put up a point that the seizure memos that were prepared by the SIT may also taken into consideration. Arguments advanced on behalf of M/s Aptech Limited 130. Ms. Meha Rashmi, learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the service provider M/s. Aptech Limited has basically argued following three points: 131. In support of her submissions, she cited clause 'e' of the Post Examination Stage Activities, as prescribed under the work order which clearly provided "answer key will be displayed for 7 (days) after the test or as requested by U.P. Jal Nigam objections/ queries received online should be attended and remedial action should be taken". She has placed emphasis upon the words and expression "as instructed by U.P. Jal Nigam" to demonstrate that even though the work order carried this directive in black and white but alternatively it also provided that the agency would be working as per the instructions received from U.P. Jal Nigam. She submitted that the first phase of examination was held on 08.08.2016 qua Routine Grade Clerk and M/s. Aptech Limited informed the Managing Director of U.P. Jal Nigam on 09.08.2016 that as per the departmental instructions and discussions held with the officials of the Corporation it had been decided not to go ahead for the procedure of inviting objections to questions and answers from the candidates and instead, results were to be processed immediately. 132. Likewise, she submitted, after the CBT was conducted in respect of Junior Engineers post in all categories and concluded finally on 07.12.2016, the Managing Director held discussion with M/s. Aptech Limited to process the result instead of inviting objections to the questions and answers. Again a further letter was written on 17.12.2016 in respect of the CBT held for the post of Assistant Engineers which had concluded on 16.12.2016. All these letters have been brought on record by M/s. Aptech Limited through the counter affidavit filed in its behalf in the matter of Ambrish Kumar Pandey vs. State of U.P. and others being Writ - A No. 5912 of 2020. It is thus, sought to be urged by Ms. Meha Rashmi, learned Advocate that it was not M/s. Aptech Limited which was to be blamed for not uploading the answer keys, rather U.P. Jal Nigam which insisted for the announcement of results of CBT, was to be blamed. According to her, there was no clause clearly providing that in all circumstances publication of master answer key was to take place before final declaration of CBT result and thus whatever was provided under the work order was complied with in its letter and spirit. She argued that M/s. Aptech Limited was the only examination conducting agency and at every stage of selection process it was having consultation with the officials of U.P. Jal Nigam. Likewise the Managing Director and its authorized officers of the Corporation would be holding discussions and consultations with the officials of Aptech Limited in their office and giving guidelines. 133. On the point of deleting the data from the primary source cloud server Ms. Rashmi submitted that online examination whenever is held there are three servers that are working side by side. One server at a centre where the examination is conducted for transmitting all the minute details, they can be termed as audit trail in respect of the candidates attempting questions and giving answers; another server is available in the office of service provider agency where online applications registered etc. are processed and all these details are finally transmitted to the online cloud server which is a hired space provided to the agency by another service provider. According to her, when the data are collected and final result is declared, the entire matter comes to a close. In such circumstances, therefore, the data is transmitted from the cloud server to the local environment and further sent to the other storage device at assigned places of service provider and as per Aptech's data restoration policy after the expiry of six months it is sent to archive storage NSA placed at its Noida Office. 134. In support of her above submissions, she led the Court through the data retention policy of service provider agency and submitted that these documents were also supplied to SIT to have a look as to how the date retention policy has been framed and what exactly the Aptech Limited does in respect of such online examinations. Ms. Rashmi submitted further that on 18.09.2018 M/s. Aptech Limited had written a letter to the Managing Director, U.P. Jal Nigam in the above regard and she has drawn attention of the court towards Annexure No. 22 of the counter affidavit filed by it in the matter of Ambrish Kumar Pandey, which clearly provided that the data Centre at Mumbai retained the data on the cloud server only for 30 days. 135. Thus, according to Ms. Rashmi as per the terms and agreement of the service provider agency reached with M/s. Aptech Limited, the cloud server space which was used for the purposes of live program like registration online of the candidates, holding online examination, was only for a limited duration. She further submitted that the data was there stored in the local environment only for the purposes of processing the result so as to prepare the final select list as a result of CBT. This, according to Ms. Rashmi was not the main secured data and related to the examination/ CBT only. All these informations regarding candidates attempting the question etc. was transferred through the software 'audit trail' which was used by service provider agency namely M/s. Aptech Limited. Thus, according to her, the hard disks which were claimed to have been seized and were six in numbers, from the local environment office of M/s. Aptech Limited were in fact nothing but storage of the result processing data. She argued that the CDs/ DVDs that were claimed by the Corporation to have been provided to it and which were forwarded to the Institutes of Technology both at Kanpur and Allahabad for verification of data integrity, were not the primary source data. CDs/ DVDs are always secondary source and had the corporation been sincere to conduct forensic examination of the material relating to the examination held online by the service provider agency, it should have looked into the data retention policy and accordingly should have asked M/s. Aptech Limited to provide access to its original data preserved in archive storage. 136. She further argued that M/s Aptech Ltd. itself had submitted a report to the effect that after objection to the certain questions and answers were solved revising the result and handed it over to the Corporation vide letter dated 24th July, 2017 in respect of Routine Grade Clerks, on 14th August, 2017 in respect of Junior Engineers and 22nd July, 2017 in respect of Assistant Engineers, but Corporation miserably failed for the reasons best known to it, to proceed to revise final select list of the CBT results. She further submitted that in view of the order passed by the Court in Service Single No. 7640 of 2020 dated 17.09.2020, the data stored in the Archive could not be exposed to anyone as it became custodia legis. According to her whenever a record or property is put on hold under the orders of the Court, in principle, these properties and records become custodia legis. 137. Meeting the arguments earlier advanced on behalf of U.P. Jal Nigam that no checksum information or 'hash value' was made available by M/s Aptech Ltd. so as to enable the experts of IITs to arrive at a definite conclusion that original data was not interfered with and further to arrive at a conclusion as to whether tainted and untainted candidates could be segregated or not, Ms. Rashmi, learned Advocate, submitted that original data is still saved in the Archive storage of Aptech named as NSA at it NOIDA based office and Corporation could have asked any expert to have access to that and this could have been also done for IIT experts. She reiterated the stand of M/s Aptech Ltd. that whatever DVDs and CDs were provided by M/s Aptech Ltd. to the Corporation containing data was a to processed data consisting of results of CBT on excel format. She further argued that when CFSL report was already there in place and the SIT submitted a final report sometimes in January, 2020, it was still open for the State or for that matter Corporation to have access to the CFSL data comprised in DVDs with 'hash value' for the purposes of verification of data integrity. She submitted that this could have been done also by taking leave of the concerned court. 138. She vehemently urged that original primary source cloud server data which was downloaded to the secondary server and finally kept in Archive storage of the Company was in fact as per the protocol. 139. Dealing with academic point as to purpose and the characteristic of software tools like 'checksum', 'hash value' and 'audit trail', Ms. Rashmi submitted that these are only software tools to verify integrity of original data. She submitted that data transmitted from main cloud server to the storage server is automatically done without human intervention and 'audit trail' is the software tool that was in fact used by M/s Aptech Ltd. This software tool verify the original data like the one respondents wanted qua Click of the mouse at the relevant point of time at a particular centre of a particular a candidate while attempting questions. These details are embedded in data and can only be verified by experts of the field so as to come to a definite conclusion whether data continued to be stored in its original form or had further been modified. The audit trial according to Ms. Rashmi provides a complete chain of events date-wise and time-wise and if forensic expert is put to a task to examine it, then such an expert he would immediately come to arrest a case if date and time of chain is broken at any particular stage. Once chain is found to be broken then data accessed would have to be taken to have already been modified. Similarly, she argued that checksum and hash value and other software tools do the same but on different formats they work and are applied to. She submits that she was surprised as to why the Corporation did not seek opportunity to verify the data by requesting M/s Aptech Ltd. to provide access to experts of IITs to its archival data. 140. Meeting the arguments advanced by counsel appearing for the Corporation that original result was prepared on excel sheet but was supplied on HTML format and this was indicative of some interpolation or tampering, she submitted that it was highly misplaced an argument. According to her M/s Aptech Ltd. worked on Excel format and processed data was reproduced on excel format. She argued that original data from the cloud server when downloaded in local environment it continued on .txt and the same way was stored in the Archive Storage Server, but once it was worked upon or processed for that matter, then it got transformed on the format which is applied like in the present case excel format. This is the reason according to her, how the data was provided on excel format placed and this is the reason as she argues that data recovered/retrieved from the hard disk was a result processing data. 141. Any investigation report on the basis of result processing data, she argues, cannot be taken to be a conclusive report qua data integrity so as to hold that selection process was compromised. She argued that service provider agency as a matter of fact conducted entire CBT in coordination with officials of the Corporation at every stage and there has been no complaint from the Corporation's side at any point of time until informations were sought under the Right to Information Act from the Corporation and it insisted for publication of master answer key and response sheet. She argued that even entire investigation report has discussed CFSL report to arrive at a conclusion that sufficient evidence were available to hold that named accused persons were guilty of the offences but in respect of a senior official of the M/s Aptech Ltd. Namely, Sri Bhawesh Jain, charge-sheet has already been quashed by Lucknow Bench of this Court vide judgment and order dated 02.06.2022 in matter under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. being no. 2235 of 2022. Thus, according to her, itself is indicative of the fact there was nothing intrinsic was there available in the investigation report to hold the accused persons guilty of the charge. Thus, according to her, both Police investigation report and enquiry reports are based upon no material indicating any systematic fraud in selection procedure at the level of M/s Aptech Ltd. 142. Ms. Rashmi further reiterated the stand of M/s Aptech that once it intimated the special investigation team vide mail written to it on its official mail ID on 7th September, 2018 admitting a fact that original data continued to be stored in its Archive storage NAS NOIDA, SIT ought to have visited the Noida office of the M/s Aptech to lay its hand over the data stored there. This, according to Ms. Rashmi, could have done justice to the candidates who had fairly and genuinely participated in the open selection process and had fairly made it to the merit list. Thus it was serious lapse on the part of the SIT, in not approaching the M/s Aptech Ltd. at its office at Noida for the said purpose and instead continued to depend upon that hard-disks that were seized from the local environment office at Mumbai. 143. The submission regarding 65- B of the Evidence Act, 1872 certificate qua hard-disks recovered, particularly hard-disk No.- 6 which contained the image data of primary source Cloud server CtrlS and that neither Mr. Neeraj Malik, nor Mr. Roman Fernandes could have given it and instead, it was required to be given only by an officials of the company CtrlS, whose hard-disk it was and had the image data of cloud server. According to Mr. Meha Rashmi, learned counsel M/s Aptech Ltd. had no control over the data transmission from the original cloud server to the hard-disk of the CtrlS company and, therefore, the officials could not have known the nature of material which was claimed to be image data of the Cloud server in absence of the certificate by the officials of concerned CtrlS company. The certificates issued by Mr. Neeraj Malik and Mr. Roman Fernandes, therefore, cannot be treated to be valid certificate within the meaning of Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. 144. Mr. Goyal has also relied upon the judgment in the matter of M/s. Aptech Limited v. Union of India , 2021 (1) High Court Cases Del. 580 in which vide para 7 the Court has referred to the judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in the case of M/s. Aptech Limited v. U.P. Power Corporation as already referred to herein above. The Court referred to the findings returned in para 30 of the Division Bench judgment of this Court. The Court did not approve the conduct of M/s. Aptech Limited for having concealed this fact that a High Court had earlier approved the order of blacklisting. Mr. Goyal has referred to para 47 of the judgment on the principle of judicial restraint in matters of administrative action, in the event the decision making process was found to be not flawed one. Reply to the arguments of M/s Aptech by Corporation 145. Replying to the arguments advanced on behalf of M/s Aptech Ltd., Mr. Manish Goyal, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the corporation submitted that the principle of custodia legis is not applicable to the case in hand because its records, as claimed by the Aptech Ltd. in its archive storage NAS, Noida office, was not in custody of any court of law, nor the court had placed it in custody of a third person or authority in its behalf. In this connection he has placed reliance upon the judgment of Supreme Court in the case Bank of India v. Vijay Transport and others (2000) 8 SCC 512. 146. On perusal of the mail sent on 7th September, 2018 to the SIT by Aptech as was claimed in the counter affidavit, Mr. Manish Goyal submitted that authenticity of the letter is doubted, firstly for the reason that mail ID could not be said to be of the SIT and secondly the signature of the official is also questionable as the covering letter does not match these or subsequent correspondences that took place between the Corporation and the SIT and between the Corporation and the M/s Aptech Ltd inasmuch as format of letters was different. Arguments in Rejoinder on behalf of petitioners 147. Meeting the points raised by Mr. Manish Goyal, Mr. Khare, learned Senior Advocate in his rejoinder has emphasized basically on three points: 148. On the point of short time or negligible time given by the Interview Boards to the candidates in different categories while interviewing them, Mr. Khare submitted that chart that has been appended along with supplementary affidavit that was filed before the Supreme Court and has been brought on record through counter affidavit in the writ petition of Samrah Ahmad, clearly establishes that considering the number of candidates and interview board constituted, sufficient time was provided. He has further argued that there cannot be a uniform fixed time formula to interview a candidate as a candidate may not respond properly, so the interview may end in a minutes' time, whereas in case if a candidate responds very positively, the interaction may go for a longer time. He submitted that looking to the statements of the members of interview board made before the SIT it is clear that no undue influence or pressure was ever exercised upon them, nor name of any candidate had been taken by them who might have pressurised them before or during the interview. Thus, according to Mr. Khare, this argument is highly misplaced that the candidates were not properly interviewed and marks were allotted whimsically and those who had not been able to score better in CBT, were given higher marks in interview deleberately to make them qualify for final select list. 149. Mr. Ashish Mishra, learned counsel for the petitioners replying to the arguments advanced by Mr. Manish Goyal on behalf of the corporation in rejoinder, submitted that mere wrong answers and wrong questions in a MCQ pattern CBT cannot itself be a ground to upset the entire selection because those, who had genuinely qualified and found place in the select list deserved appointment. If the error is rectified in respect of those very candidates, who should have been called for interview but were not called, there would be no need to annul the appointments of those who have already been working with the respondent corporation after selection. Those who if finally succeed after revised result, can be adjusted in accordance with their merit upon the available vacancies. However, Mr. Mishra would not hesitate in submitting in his usual fairness that CFSL report if taken to be an ultimate evidence available to identify the tainted and unstained candidates, then those very 169 candidates that were found by CFSL to have been called for interview on the basis of inflated marks, their merit can be arrested in the matter of selection and they may be placed out of zone of consideration and their appointments would then certainly go. 150. On the point of timings spent by the interview board in interviewing the candidates Mr. Mishra submitted that about 266 candidates in the category of Junior Engineers did not appear before the Interview Board and thus this could have further been taken to have enlarged time span in respect of those candidates who were interviewed. Likewise there were absentees in Assistant Engineer category and there may have been absentees in respect of Routine Grade Clerk category as well. 151. Looking to the chart appended with affidavit filed before the Supreme Court Mr. Mishra reiterated that time spent in interview from morning till evening with 10 Board in case of Junior Engineers, it cannot be said that the number of candidates were so much high or rather too much that it left hardly sufficient time for the members of interview board to evaluate and assess the merit of the candidates more so when 266 candidates did not turn up for interview in Junior Engineer category and 16 candidates did not turn up in Assistant Engineer category but unfortunately the SIT while analysing these facts in it its report has overlooked this very aspect of the matter absolutely. 152. Mr. Mishra took the Court through the statement of Mr. Ram Prakash Gangawar, who was a member of the Interview Board and upon interrogation by SIT, he stated that interview was duly held and no pressure at any point of time was exercised upon him for giving special marks to any candidate particularly. 153. Similar statement, according to Mr. Mishra, is also of Mr. Vipin Kumar Tripathi, Director of the Government Engineering College, Bijnor, who was also member of the Interview Board, wherein he also stated that nobody had exercised any kind of influence upon him, nor made any recommendation in respect of any particular candidate. Similarly, Mr. Mishra submitted, Sri Prasad Shukla, Director of Government Engineering College, Banda, member of another Interview Board very clearly stated to the investigating officer that no such pressure was exercised upon him. Mr. Mishra submitted that similar were the statements of Mr. Virendra Pathak, Mr. Kayde Azam Lari and Mr. Sunil Kumar, Mr. Pradeep Kumar and so the other members of Interview Boards, who were interrogated by the SIT. 154. Thus, according to Mr. Mishra, the argument raised on the principle of average of time as drawn, by Mr. Manish Goyal, the Additional Advocate General and learned Senior Advocate, cannot be made basis to form a view that the finding arrived at by SIT is based upon cogent and intrinsic material that entire process of selection was compromised. 155. On the point of model code of conduct Mr. Mishra has argued in the rejoinder that this will apply only in matters where adhoc or temporary appointments are to be made. In the event selection process had already been initiated then selecting authority was not in any manner restrained by any notification of model code of conduct, from declaring result of selection for making appointments. 156. Mr. Mishra would argue that these are the statutory bodies that are governed by the Statutes to conduct the recruitment drive and, therefore, they are governed by the rules framed in that regard. Once the procedure prescribed is codified in law then a mere notification by the Election Commission, say a model code of conduct notification in view of the parliamentary or State Legislative Assembly election will not certainly restrain or put a bar upon such a statutory body or such institutions from declaring results of selection and offering appointments in respect of substantive vacancies advertised. What may affect would be a new recruitment drive as a policy decision in immediately drawn just at the notification of model code of conduct to influence voters in election. 157. In respect of an argument by Mr. Goyal that report of M/s Aptech Ltd. identifying 656 candidates such candidates, who were called for interview, though did not deserve and this itself could be a ground to hold that selection process was compromised, Mr. Mishra contended that out of 656 candidates except for two candidates, namely, Sri Abhishek Srivastava, Junior Engineer (Civil) and Mohd. Tahseeb Khan, Junior Engineer (Mechanical/ Electronics), the remaining 654 candidates were not selected at all. 158. Similarly, 479 candidates, who were found to have not been called for interview though they ought to have been called for interview after the revised list was published, he submits that these candidates would find place in the lowest order of merit list, otherwise the candidates, who were already there in the merit list were called for interview on their own merit and there is no such finding arrived at that those who were called for interview and were selected, did not deserve to be called for interview except for 169 candidates who have been found by CFSL, to wit, tainted candidates. 159. Thus, according to Mr. Mishra, the entire select list cannot be upset only on the ground that 479 candidates in fact deserved to be called for interview on the basis of the revised result prepared by M/s Aptech Ltd. but for the act of corporation were not called for interview. 160. Meeting the argument of Mr. Goyal that there could have been much more number of candidates than 169 identified by the CFSL and who could have been characterised as of tainted category and qua number since was not known therefore, it could not be definitely said that the findings to that count arrived at was correct one, Mr. Ashish Mishra submitted that SIT report and CFSL report both are silent in respect of any further candidate to have been found with inflated marks. In fact SIT also indicted the accused persons on the basis of CFSL report having found 169 candidates only to have marched to interview board with inflated marks. It is submitted that once the SIT report had been accepted by Additional Chief Secretary (Home) and no challenge was laid to it, nor any further investigation was ordered, it would be taken, whatever the CFSL report was placed reliance upon , was worth merit reliance for identifying the candidates, who fall in the tainted category and segregating such candidates from those, who fall in the untainted category for being selected and placed in merit list genuinely. 161. Mr. Mishra replying to the arguments of Ms. Meha Rashmi, learned counsel for the 5th respondent in Writ - A No.- 5912 of 2020, submitted that 6th hard-disk was the mirror image file of the cloud server data stationed/ placed in local environment office of M/s Aptech Ltd and not of the CtrlS company and since it was recovered from the local environment office of the M/s Aptech Ltd, Aptech Ltd. at Mumbai, it should not have shied away from admitting that it was the hard-disk recovered from its possession and that certificate issued by Mr. Roman Fernandes was worth a certificate admissible in law. 162. It is equally important to notice here the argument advanced by Mr. Mishra, learned Advocate appearing for the petitioners who also relied upon para 89 of the judgment in R. Prem Lata (supra) where the Court had held that while terminating the services of appointed candidates compliance of three principles at the hands of the State was imperative; firstly, with regard to sufficiency of material collected to arrive at a satisfaction that the selection process was tainted, secondly to determine the question that illegality committed goes to the root of the matter and this satisfaction and sufficiency of material is required to be achieved through investigation in fair and transparent manner, and thirdly the sufficient material present has enabled the State to arrive at a satisfaction that officers in majority have been found to be part of fraudulent act rendering the system itself to be corrupt. Mr. Mishra submitted that looking to the facts, investigation report of SIT and the opinion reports of the Associate Professors of Institutes of Technology, it does not lead in any manner to conclude that there was any deep rooted corrupt practice which had been adopted either by those who were selectors or those who were candidates so as to benefit only a few to the prejudice of majority. ISSUE FOR DETERMINATION 163. Having heard rival submissions advanced by learned Advocates appearing for the respective parties and having gone through the records, more especially enquiry reports, police report of SIT and the report submitted by the Associate Professors of the IIT, Kanpur and IIIT, Allahabad discussed in the order impugned, I am of the view that following issue emerges for consideration of this Court : DISCUSSION UPON ARGUMENTS AND MATERIALS 164. In order to appreciate the material discussed in the orders impugned here in these petitions, first point that is required to be thrashed out, is as to what the High Court and Supreme Court meant by words and expression 'tainted and untainted'. It is, therefore, pertinent here to look first into two in-house enquiry reports of the officials of the Corporation dated 29.05.2017 and 7.7.2017 (Annexure CA-4 and CA-5 in Writ Petition No. 7076 of 2021). These two enquiries as a matter of fact were for the order passed by the Lucknow Bench of this Court, first in Writ Petition bearing No. 9794 (SB) of 2017, Gaurav Kumar Verma v. State of U.P. and Others dated 8.5.2017 and the order dated 15.5.2017 in Writ Petition No. 15948 of 2017 ( Utkarsh Singh v. State of U.P. and Others . First Departmental Enquiry Report dated 29.5.2017 165. The first enquiry report, which was submitted by Anup Kumar Saxena, Chief Engineer (Urban) concluded as under: Second Departmental Enquiry Report dated 07.07.2017 166. In the second inquiry report dated 07.07.2017 submitted by Sri Rajiv Nigam, Chief Engineer (Level-II) following findings have been arrived: 167. Upon information being sought under the Right to Information Act, 2005 when the letter was written to M/s. Aptech Limited, they uploaded the entire result on 14.02.2017 and the answer key was published online on 28.02.2017. In respect of first shift examination of Assistant Engineer (Civil) 15 questions in respect of second shift, 16 questions were objected too and in respect of Assistant Engineer (Electronic/ Mechanical) out of 80 questions, objections were raised to two questions and in respect of Assistant Engineer (Computer Science/ Electronic) with regard to 11 questions objections were raised. These objections were sent to M/s. Aptech Limited for solutions and in its letter dated 25.05.2017 M/s. Aptech Limited admitted that 11 questions out of 15 questions in respect of which objections were raised in the first shift examination of Assistant Engineer (Civil/ Mechanical) were correct as the answers were wrong and in respect of second shift out of 16, 6 questions were wrong or there was some doubt. In respect of Assistant Engineer (Computer Science), out of 11 questions, answers to 10 questions were found to be wrong. The procedure was to first upload the master answer key in respect of online examination inviting objections and to resolve them first and thereafter, only the select list was to be published. This procedure having not been followed gross irregularity was committed by M/s. Aptech Limited. Looking to the number of wrong answers to the questions, the findings returned was that gross irregularity got committed at the end of the Aptech Limited because it was Aptech Limited who had this onerous task of drafting the question papers and providing correct answers to the questions asked in the model/ master answer key. 168. Referring to the petition of Shubham Sachan being writ petition no. 19413 of 2017 who had applied for the post of Assistant Engineer (Mechanical) in the OBC category, it is stated that he had obtained 60 marks out of 80 and yet in interview he was awarded only 12.8 marks and so, he could secured on 72 marks. Had the answer key been published earlier inviting objections resolving the same, such exercise would have facilitated his plant in CBT merit list to qualify for interview. 169. Shubham Sachan's writ petition since pleaded that question no. 29 was correctly answered and the objections raised by him had been found to be valid by M/s. Aptech Limited, wrong assessment was made as correct in respect of a wrong answer. 170. Thus, in view of these gross illegalities/ irregularities committed by the outsourced agency/ service provider who had conducted CBT of the candidates online, many undeserving candidates were made to march to the interview board and many deserving candidates were left out. 171. On the point of mala fides, the inquiry officer expressed his view that 5500 candidates had participated in the selection process of Assistant Engineers so upon a mere perusal of documents this could not be concluded that there was any act of malice or act vitiated for mala fide in the conduct of CBT but this could be claimed with authority only after putting the data to the Forensic Expert examination and getting a report confirming such malicious exercise. 172. From the above two reports, three things emerge out to be admitted position on facts (prior to the intervention by this Court under its order dated 28.11.2017): 173. The inquiry officer on the basis of pleadings raised by those very petitioners in whose petitions and the orders passed in first leg of litigation, thus came to conclude that if master answer key had been published prior to publication of merit list, the select list would have been different and it would have ensured transparency on one hand and trust in the conduct of selection in public employment on the other. 174. While dealing with the challenge laid to the order passed by the competent authority of the corporation annulling the entire selection and appointments, petitioners confronted by these very findings had raised a number of arguments before the Court and the Court exhaustively dealt with all those arguments and then having appreciated the pleadings raised and documents produced, concluded that the vacancies were duly sanctioned and were permanent in nature and, therefore, there was no issue either of impropriety on the part of the corporation in going ahead with the recruitment drive, nor there was any issue with regard to the contract given to a private agency to undertake selection process. 175. The Court held that entire selection process was undertaken as per the procedure prescribed stage by stage and, therefore, once the appointment orders were issued pursuant to the selection process undertaken as prescribed for under the advertisement, the candidates who were offered appointments and had been given joining, deserved a notice before cancellation of appointment orders. 176. The Division Bench rejected the arguments of the corporation that the very fact that some of the defective questions and incorrect answers found to be incorporated, it led to an impression as genuine one that undeserving candidates got entry into the select list and, therefore, the entire selection stood vitiated. The Court held that there were certain complaints with regard to the selection proceedings and it was incumbent upon the State Government to have held an inquiry to find out as to who were candidates not suitable for appointment so as to cancel their appointments, but no such exercise was undertaken by the respondents to distinguish cases of tainted from untainted ones. 177. Looking to the factual background of the case untill this judgment was passed the inquiry reports upon which the order dated 11th August, 2017 was passed impugned in that writ petition, I find that epicentre of the controversy to be only non publication of the master answer key before the declaration of the final select list, which upon its publication led to genuine objections raised to certain questions and answers and, therefore, the candidates, who attempted wrong answers might have been placed in the select list and those who did not attempt or may have attempted questions to which the answers were doubtful got an exit door. The Division Bench, therefore, in these circumstances, had found the impugned order cancelling the appointments to be bad for want of exercise to segregate tainted from untainted candidates. The matter, therefore, got remitted for decision afresh in the light of the observations so made. 178. Thus, the words and expressions 'tainted and untainted' as has come to be referred in the judgment dated 28th November, 2017 is only contextual to this fact based controversy as I have already discussed above in the two inquiry reports and so I have no reason to doubt that until the two inquiry reports and even judgment of Division Bench later on, there was no issue with regard to any kind of gross illegality in the conduct of the examination except the propriety issue qua appointments to 4 posts of Assistant Engineer in the trade of Computer Science/ Electronic Communication stream. 179. Having dealt with the words and expressions 'tainted and untainted', now I proceed to examine the reports submitted by the IIT Kanpur and IIIT Allahabad made upon a call of corporation vide its letter dated 31st August, 2018. 180. Before coming to the reports I would like here to refer to the two letters written to these institutes of technology by the corporation on 31st August, 2018. In these letters specifically reports were called for in respect of online examination for the post of 122 Assistant Engineers only. 181. What is interesting to notice here is that corporation requiring for an independent report from IITs put a remark in the letter itself that on the directions of the Honb'le Court inquiries were conducted which established commitment of gross illegalities and irregularities in the examination. On the basis of findings entire examination process was rendered "void ab initio" "and recruitment was cancelled on 11th August, 2017" and then the letter also records that examination conducting body M/s Aptech Ltd. submitted that data qua selection had been deleted from the primary source cloud server and, therefore, the question was whether "it was possible to segregate tainted from non tainted candidates and whether the data provided in CDs by M/s Aptech would be an authentic data in the context of deletion of data from primary source cloud server". With this letter in hand the Associate Professors of IIIT, Allahabad and IIT Kanpur submitted their respective reports making certain key observations. Report of IIIT Allahabad [1st Report (Assistant Engineer)]
 
 Key Observations: 182. Examining the CDs provided by the corporation minutely, according to the report, in the absence of any checksum information not being provided by the service provider, identification of tainted candidates was impossible and also the authenticity of the data provided could not be verified for want of crucial information and for the reason that the candidates' response files that were preserved in HTML got modified on 27th February, 2017. 183. It assigns reason that candidates' response file as submitted by the service provider were created rather hurriedly and certainly as not expected and in the absence of any validating information, there is very possibility that these candidates' response data file might have been distorted. 184. Further before arriving at conclusion to offer its final opinion, interestingly the Associate Professor observed that the scope of enquiry being limited to the technical aspects of the testing process and the rigour with which tests were conducted, he proceeded to presume as under: 185. Based upon the above, final opinion expressed is: 186. The above opinion was subject to a condition that all the documents and data shared with the technical expert of IIIT had a verified provenance and responses provided by the person made available on 13th and 14th December, 2018 at the U.P. Jal Nigam Head Office. Report of IIT, Kanpur [1st Report (Assistant Engineer)] 187. After examining the CDs that were provided by the corporation the expert of IIT, Kanpur concluded as under: Since the primary data had been deleted from the cloud server, it was difficult for the expert to corroborate the date provided in the CDs to be an exact copy of the original data. (ii). No audit trail containing the mouse click and the time spent in the choices made by the students were provided in CDs as audit trail would have made it easier to corroborate that answers given by the students in the examination was the same as the answers that were created later but in the absence of any audit trail discrepancies if had happened in the examination, could be detected and corroborated by way of confirmation that no such discrepancies had ever taken place. (iii). The grading of the answer sheet is done only after the objections are invited or even rebuttals from the candidates to consolidate the responses and freezing of the answer key. This protocol having not been followed in the present case it raises apprehension that response sheets of individual candidate might have been tampered with. 188. Two above reports proceed to examine the data which was provided in CD form by the corporation to them with this note that this was the data provided by the M/s Aptech and that in the domestic inquiry a finding had already come to be returned that entire selection process was compromised. 189. The original data having been deleted from the cloud server admittedly upon expiry of 30 days, the same was not available and, therefore, the task left for the experts to give information as to whether the data provided was a genuine enough to demarcate a line between tainted and untainted candidates. However, the experts have expressed their inability to come to a definite conclusion and hence proceeded to hold that since the CD contained data which stood modified on 27th February, 2017, nothing could be said with surety as to whether the selection process stood compromised or not for any kind of tempering with the original answer sheets of the candidates. 190. There is therefore, no definite view expressed in the absence of checksum information and hash value qua the data provided by the outsourced agency. Thus authenticity of the data could not be verified. 191. In order to appreciate the opinion of experts in the background of non availability of checksum information and hash value and even the audit trail details as has been opined by the experts of IIIT, Allahabad and IIT Kanpur, it is now necessary to at least throw some light upon hash value, checksum and audit trail like software tools. 2nd Opinion Report, IIIT Allahabad 192. It is apt here also to refer to the other reports furnished by the experts of the IIT Kanpur and IIIT Allahabad in respect of conduct of CBT qua Junior Engineers and Routine Grade Clerks, if third report in sequence and second report by IIIT Allahabad dated 19th December, 2018 proceeds to record its consequences after noting key observations that are enumerated in the report itself. These key observations relate to non publication of master answer key immediately after conclusion of CBT by the service provider. 7 wrong questions in the RGC CBT and 18 wrong questions in Junior Engineer CBT raised serious questions to the validity of the question papers formulated by service provider for computer based test. Two appointment orders issued to male candidates against reserved vacancy of female candidates in the category of Junior Engineers, non availability of checksum information so as to analyse the candidates response data if recorded, not supplied to the U.P. Jal Nigam, in respect of typing proficiency test held for RGC recruitment as well, breach of contract by the service provider, non furnishing of data pertaining to the computer based test and computer based multiple choice test that might have been available on the original server. Thee CDs provided indicated that data stood modified on 27th February, 2017 after the appointment orders were issued and the candidate's response file for that RGC CBT presented on HTML format stood modified on 08th March, 2017, the scope of investigation being limited to the technical aspect of the testing process. 193. With these key observations regarding testing process and rigor with which recruitment tests were held, the report records two assertions made by the U.P. Jal Nigam while seeking opinion of the experts: firstly, that Assistant Engineers testing process by the service provider was compromised, and therefore, there was tacit implication of Jal Nigam that overall testing process of other two tests must have also been compromised; and secondly since the Court had asked for segregation between tainted and untainted candidates in respect of recruitment drive conducted by the Corporation with the help of outsourced agency, it means that the Court accepted the assertion of Jal Nigam that overall recruitment process had been compromised. 194. On the above premises, the expert of the IIIT Allahabad came to following conclusions with the rider that documents and data shared with expert had a verified prominence and response provided by personnel made available for interaction with undersigned on 13 and 14th December, 2018 at the U.P. Jal Nigam Office, Lucknow: Conclusions: 195. The second report of expert of IIT Kanpur that was fourth in series of report from Allahabad and Kanpur, appears to be in respect of Routine Grade Clerk test held because it records chronology of events that relate to RGC. The report records that no file in CDs provided by M/s Aptech Ltd. with the last modification data equivalent to the day of examination and since experts were informed that the original data from the cloud server had been deleted, they found it difficult to corroborate that data provided in the CD to be the exact original data that was available immediately upon completion of test. Further opinion recorded by the expert is that no Audit Trail containing individual mouse clicks and time stamps of the choices made by the student has been provided in the CDs and hence in absence of Audit Trail, it was not possible to corroborate and confirm that there happened no discrepancy between the candidates actual response and those which were used for grading. The expert of the IIT, Kanpur finally opined that in absence of primary data being provided by M/s Aptech Ltd., it was not possible to confirm the authenticity of date provided in CDs independently and hence segregation of tainted and untainted candidates was not possible. Hash Value/ Checksum/Audit Trail 196. Having discussed above four reports submitted by experts of the institute of technology to appreciate the same in the light of arguments advanced on behalf of rival parties to the litigation, it is necessary to first understand as to what are the software tools, which are often referred to as 'hash value', 'checksum information' and 'audit trail'. 197. Having gone through the literature on the subject matter provided by learned Senior Advocate Mr. Ashok Khare appearing for the petitioners as well as those provided by Mr. Manish Goyal, learned Senior Advocate and Additional Advocate General appearing for the respondents , in my view, hash value is a digital fingerprint or digital signature created for data security and is passed on to log in to the data. Any attempt to access data will be secured by such digital signature, would corrupt the data itself if hash value code is not applied. 198. Yet another crucial aspect is that this digital signature is while key to have access to the data but it has also a constant value so long as data is not changed or modified. Any change or modification if attempted to the original data, it will change the hash value. In other words, hash value is applied to access the original data in its secured form, and therefore, hash value is provided /fixed to ensure data integrity. Thus hash value is a fixed string or a number generated from input data of any signs using hash function and it, therefore, represents data in a constant form. Hashing is often used for encrypted data integrity verification and efficient data record. Thus hash value has a characteristic of being a fixed sign determinative thereby to ensure that the same input will always be produced with same hash value. In other words different inputs will produce different hash values and so minimizing the collisions and irreversibility. Likewise the checksum is a value derived from block data is to detect the errors or corruption in the data during stage of transmission. It is basically used for data integrity verification by comparing checksum calculated before transmission with checksum recalculated at the destination. 199. Thus both the hash value and checksum are aimed at ensuring data integrity and difference is that checksum algorithm are simple and fast for quick integrity checks but checksums are not designed to be collision- resistant or secure. They only detect accidental errors. 200. The audit trail is a chronological record that documents sequence of activities or events related to specific transaction, system or process. It is used to track changes, monitor system usage and verify the integrity of actions and decisions made. It is claimed that records in audit trail are typically designed to be tamper proof. This tool traces changes in the entire path of data created, its transmission, and its final delivery. It is commonly used in financial transaction cybersecurity etc. and it helps organizations to detect fraud, manipulations and transactions so as to check the credibility and after-all to ensure transparency in operations. 201. In the reports of the experts of the institutes of technology as have come to be referred to herein above and quoted qua their opinions expressed in respect of the data provided in all the four reports, the experts have categorically expressed their opinion that in the absence of checksum information, hash value to the data provided in CD and there being no audit trail traceable so as to find out as to whether the attempt through a mouse click by a candidate to a question with correct answer as recorded is an authentic data as to the time, date and place when the event held or subsequently modified to match the results. No confirmed opinion, therefore was expressed. 202. The experts' report express the opinion unequivocally that since the original data was claimed to have been deleted from the cloud server and the Court had directed for segregating the tainted candidates from untainted candidates nothing could be stated finally but in the background of the questions raised as to the integrity of the selection process for the reason that Court virtually held that the selection process had stood compromised, it concluded that it would have happened. So the opinion expressed by the experts of the IITs, if drawn up in a nutshell was not a confirmed opinion and was only based upon the input provided by the corporation in its letter seeking information. There was all the more reason to reach out to this conclusion on the basis of analysis by these experts as CDs provided to it contained data that stood modified on 27th February, 2027 (For AE), 24th & 25th February, 2018 (For JE) and 5th March, 2018 (For RGC). The experts are referring to the CDs and not the original hard-disks. Learned Additional Advocate General while arguing the matter was confronted with the query by the Court as to whether this CD contained any data obtained from CFSL, he very clearly stated that this CD contained the data that was provided by M/s Aptech and not by the CFSL. It is to be noticed here that learned counsel appearing for M/s Aptech had clearly argued before the Court that CDs contained was asked for by the corporation, result date after the original data was processed to prepare the result. So, it was a data in secondary form not in its original form. 203. It was also argued on behalf of M/s Aptech Ltd. and not disputed by the corporation that CDs were provided to the corporation by M/s Aptech Ltd. on 28th February, 2017 in response to the letter of corporation dated 14th February, 2017 qua examination related details of AE, JE, RGC & Stenographer Grade IV and further soft copy of answer key and response sheet of those very candidates on 28th February, 2017 in response to letter dated 7th February, 2017. Obviously data taken from original data base does amount to providing data in secondary source i.e. CD or DVD. 204. However, these observations at this stage are yet to be tested on the basis of the arguments advanced by the rival parties and further while I analyse their arguments relating to the various reports discussed above and the findings arrived at in the orders impugned because still I have not considered the SIT report and the one submitted by Central Forensic Science Laboratory, which has been heavily relied upon by the SIT in its ultimate final report submitted in the matter of criminal investigation. Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Hyderabad Report (CFSL) 205. This CFSL report dated 11th December, 2019 analyses the data retrieved from the hard-disks supplied to it by the special investigation team for the purposes of comparative study with the documents supplied by the SIT relating to the marks of the candidates in the CBT who were called for interview. After the retrieving the original data from the hard-disk by applying two tools namely, MSSQL management Studio version 2008, Microsoft Access 2016 and Steller Phoenix, SQL Data Recovery version 8.00 in respect of the data base files relating to Assistant Engineers in all trades, Junior Engineers in all trades, Stenographer and Routine Grade Clerk, it says that data provided by the SIT were compared with the original computer based test score present in the computer data base recovered from hard-disks as well as the backup files and after comparison it concluded that marks of some of the participants in all the above categories were increased. There names were provided in various annexures it consisted of 169 candidates belonging to different trades of Assistant Engineers, Junior Engineers and of course Routine Grade Clerk cum Stenographer who were otherwise unsuccessful candidates. 206. The data upon comparative chart being prepared by the CFSL, was provided both in the hardcopies and soft copies to the SIT and the softcopy was provided in the folder named 'CBT Comparison' in a DVD marked as CAH-75-2018-DVD. 207. The entire data retrieved from data base relating to the various posts of Assistant Engineers, Junior Engineers, Routine Grade Clerks and Stenographers Grade IV pertaining to the participants who appeared in the CBT was provided also in the folder called 'All participants data' in the same DVD. 208. The CFSL also provided a specific data in respect of the petitioner Ambarish Kumar Pandey in one of the petitions bearing Roll No.- 1112075512 which records when the examination started for U.P. Jal Nigam Electrical and Mechanical for which he was appearing and total score of the question paper, the attempted questions and wrong attempts made. It is here pertinent to recall the arguments of Mr. Ashish Mishra, who had referred to this data to emphasise that there was a complete audit trail as to the time and place of the examination questions attempted by a candidate. If the entire data had been analysed by any other forensic expert or recognized and approved by agency then it would have become very clear that data provided in the hard-disks that were seized was the correct data. There is no quarrel amongst the learned Advocates appearing for the rival parties that 169 candidates are those candidates who had been given inflated marks to participate in interview though Mr. Khare had raised a point of doubt about the correctness of data provided to the CFSL in view of the allegations made by the M/s Aptech itself that the hard-disk seized from the local environment of the M/s Aptech office at Mumbai consisted of only processed data. SIT (Police) Investigation Report 209. Even though Mr. Khare had raised objection as to the evidenciary value of the police report submitted under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. but since the Corporation has taken notice of the same and in the matter of administrative law, an authority can look into those reports so as to arrive at a conclusion on the principle of preponderance of probability, that irregularity has taken place to the extent of impunity, I find it necessary and imperative to go through the details of this report as well. 210. Now I proceed to discuss the last report which was submitted by the SIT in the matter of criminal investigation pursuant to the FIR registered vide Case Crime No. 2 of 2018. This report was submitted on 31.01.2020, obviously after the two judgments, both of the High Court and Supreme Court. The reference to this last report becomes necessary also for the reason that in paragraph no. 41 of the counter affidavit filed by the Corporation in the matter of Samrah Ahmad v. State of U.P. & Others (supra) it has been averred that the Division Bench (Special Appeal Defective No. 625 of 2019) in its order dated 31.07.2019 had directed to take a decision in the matter of recruitment process but the same will be subject to the report of SIT and CFSL. 211. The Special Investigation Team that was entrusted with task to carry out investigation into the selection process undertaken by the service provider M/s Aptech Ltd. including the interview procedure adopted by the U.P. Jal Nigam . The investigating team through its officers interrogated as many as 59 persons, who were either complainant, police officers, retired and serving officers of the U.P. Jal Nigam, officials of M/s Aptech Ltd. and the members of the different interview boards that had conducted interview of the selected candidates. The investigating team also examined the documents, which were supplied to it or otherwise it gathered from different sources and this list of documents consisted of 43 items, which included even hard disks seized from the local environment office of the M/s Aptech Ltd. at Mumbai and also 4 forensic lab reports submitted by Central Forensic Science Laboratory situate at Hyderabad. On the principles of preponderance of probability as I have already observed, it becomes necessary to go through the SIT report even though this is only a police report submitted under Section 173(2) of erstwhile Cr.P.C . but statements of various persons recorded after interrogation by the police in the report become relevant to the controversy in hand and so also the analysis by the investigating agency as well as findings returned thereupon by it. 212. About 59 persons who were interrogated by the investigating agency, statements of Vishwajeet Singh, Roman Fernandes, Ajay Kumar Yadav, Niraj Malik, officials of the M/s Aptech Ltd. and that of Mr. Prem Kumar Ashudani, former Managing Director of U.P. Jal Nigam, Mr. Anup Kumar Saxena, the then Chief Engineer, Urban, U.P. Jal Nigam who had submitted first inhouse enquiry as on 29.5.2017, Rakesh Prasad Sinha, the Chief Engineer Level- II who had also submitted report of in-house enquiry and Sri Syed Afaq Ahmad, Officer on Special Duty, Ministry of Urban Development are relevant to the contrary in the present case. 213. In the matter of CBT held for the post of Routine Grade Clerks and Stenographers the statement of various officials who were there in the system, have been recorded. Upon question being put to Sri Ram Sewak Shukla during interrogation by the SIT, he had admitted to have made complaint to Chief Minister on 22.03.2017. He stated that during period in question the then Minister Mr. Azam Khan indulged in corrupt practice and adopted a very calculated tactics to ensure that maximum person of his community were appointed. He claimed that in matter of selection and appointment upon 1300 posts and used the then Minister did a lot of fraudulent activity with the help of Mr. Prem Kumar Ashudani, the then Managing Director, U.P. Jal Nigam and the then Chief Engineer Anil Kumar Khare. 214. Sri Arvind Kumar Rakesh who retired from the post of Chief Engineer,Level-I, Allahabad, had been in interview board for Assistant Engineers and denied any irregularity in his board or in awarding marks, nor favour was shown to any candidate for his caste or religion. 215. Sri Chandra Dev Singh Yadav who retired from the post of Chief Engineer (Mechanical and Electrical) on 31.07.2018 did not give any impression during the interrogation that any undue influence was ever exercised upon him or any kind of request was made to award higher marks to any candidate on the basis of caste, creed or region. 216. Sri Ved Prakash Mishra, Chief Engineer, Ganga Pollution Control, Varanasi Circle, Varanasi was also member of the Interview Board for the post of Junior Engineers claimed that the interview was held in two shifts, one at 10.00 a.m. and the second at 2.00 p.m. and after the interview was conducted, each candidate was awarded marks on the basis of average marks calculated out of the marks allotted by each member of interview board. Upon the cutting on the marks/ tabulation sheet prepared in the interview, he only claimed that it was because of mistake in writing. He also did not give any impression that he was approached by anyone to award any candidate higher marks on the basis of caste, creed or religion. 217. Sri Chandra Dhar Dubey who retired from the post of Superintending Engineer from Gonda denied that list that was provided to interview board contained any CBT marks. He stated that only roll number and the name of the candidate was provided. He denied to be involved in any manner in any other exercise during the recruitment driver except conducting interview. 218. Sri Anand Murti Srivastava who retired from the post of Superintending Engineer, U.P. Jal Nigam, Lucknow upon interrogation by the police gave a statement regarding allocation of marks in interview which was of 20 marks in total. On the question of knowledge of CBT marks to the members of interview board, he denied to have had any such knowledge because no such information used to be given. He also denied any influence ever to have been exercised upon him or that he was approached by anyone for awarding higher marks to any particular candidate or category of candidates. 219. Sri Avanindra Kumar Singh who had retired from the post of Superintending Engineer, U.P. Jal Nigam, Lucknow gave almost similar statement. Sri Ashwani Kumar Tyagi who had retired from the post of Chief Engineer, U.P. Jal Nigam, Lucknow and was also member of Interview Board upon being asked about the parameters upon which the marks had been awarded, he did not give any impression that he was approached by anyone to award higher marks to a candidate of particular caste, creed or religion. According to him parameters laid for overall assessment of candidates were strictly adhered to 220. Sri Alok Kumar, the Executive Engineer posted at Lucknow was also a member of Interview Board and made a categorical statement that no influence was exercised upon him, nor any pressure was exercised upon him, nor was he approached by anyone to award higher marks to a particular candidate. Regarding a particular question as to whether he was ever approached to change the result sheet, he denied. 221. Sri Ram Prakash Gangwar, member of an Interview Board working as Lecturer in Government Polytechnic College, Hardoi also made similar statement so was also the statement made by one Vipin Kumar Tripathi, Director, Government Engineering College, Bijnor who was also a member of Interview Board. Sri Shiv Prasad Shukla who was Director of Government Engineering College, Banda and member of Interview Board also denied to have ever been approached or pressurised by anyone to award higher marks to any particular category of candidate. Sri Virendra Pathak, Sri Kayde Azam Lari, Retired Chief Engineer (PWD), Sri Sunil Kumar, Lecturer, HBTU, Kanpur, Sri Pradeep Kumar, Lecturer, HBTU, Kanpur, Sri Shailendra Pratap Singh, Lecturer, Government College, Lucknow, Sri Dipti Parmar, Lecturer, HBTU, Kanpur, Sri Zubair Ahmad, Chief Engineer, U.P. Jal Nigam, Sri Amit Kumar, Lecturer Architecture, Government Polytechnic Lucknow, Sri Usha Kiran, Lecturer, Mechanical Engineering, Government Polytechnic, Lucknow, Mohd. Kasim Ali, Lecturer Architecture, Government Polytechnic, Lucknow who were all members of different boards, have all given similar statements. 222. The SIT during interrogation of a large number of persons though had put up a number of twisted questions as is reflected from its report but the reply given conveys this impression only that the interviews were conducted as per the norms, marks were allotted by boards as per the parameters laid and the interview board members were neither approached by the candidates, nor were unduly influenced or coerced by anyone to award higher marks or particular marks to a particular candidate belonging to particular caste, creed or religion. 223. Mr. Vishwajeet Singh during his entire interrogation regarding conduct of selection in the matter of Routine Grade Clerk, Junior Engineer and Assistant Engineer, clearly stated to the SIT that right from stage of drafting of the question paper till assessment of answer-sheet and declaration of CBT result, was entirely the duty cast upon service provider. He stated to the SIT about number of question papers, number of questions asked, the date and shifts in which CBTs were held. He also stated that if there was anything wrong found to be detected in framing a question and assigning answer to a question in master answer key, it was also a responsibility to be shouldered by the service provider. He also stated in reply to a query made to him regarding publication of master answer key, that in view of discussion held between M/s Aptech Ltd, and the Corporation, officials of the Corporation wanted result to be published first in respect of the CBT held for all the three categories of posts. He reiterated Clause 'e' of the work order/contract, according to which the answer key was required to be published immediately after examination held for seven days or as per instructions received from the Corporation and so Aptech followed the instructions of Corporation in publishing the result first. He blamed the Corporation also for publishing the answer key quite late as on 28th February, 2017 and also blamed the Corporation for holding interview first and for not permitting master answer key to be displayed on the website. 224. Regarding selection of M/s Aptech Ltd. to undertake selection process, Mr. Vishwajeet Singh stated that team members of the officials of Aptech had taken proposal to the office of U.P. Jal Nigam and after perusing the same, Managing Director of the Corporation, Mr. P.K.Ashudani, the Chief Engineer Sri A.K.Khare, Senior Technician Sri R.P.Sinha and also Sri Syed Afaq Ahmad, Officer on Special Duty attached with the Chairman of U.P. Jal Nigam appreciated the proposals and accordingly accepted M/s Aptech Ltd, to undertake selection in question. Upon another pointed querry being made as to whether any of the officials of the M/s Aptech Ltd. was related to the officers of the Corporation, he denied. 225. Regarding placement of server or the storage of the data in respect of the selection process, which consisted of online registration of application, issuance of admit card, examination and also declaration of result etc. it is stated that M/s Aptech Ltd. was working with two separate data Center Provider, namely Control S (Ctrl S) and another NTT Net Magic Control S and both severs were at Mumbai. Aptech used public cloud area space of Net Magic (Control S) regarding data security and saving of the original data after final results were prepared and published. It was stated that as per Clause 12 of the Aptech Ltd. responsibilities in the work order and soft-copy and hard copy of the result was made available to the U.P. Jal Nigam and the remaining data which was to be preserved for period of one year as per contract. Mr. Vishwajeeti Singh very clearly stated that entire data relating to online registration, attendance biometric, candidates' original response, original questions and original answers and revised answer key were all preserved. He stated that after the examination the data which was collected at the cloud server was later on downloaded in the local environment server. This statement being very crucial to the controversy regarding deletion of data, which has been reason assigned for the opinions by the experts of institutes of technology and which played crucial role in decision making of the Corporation, is reproduced hereunder: (Translated by the Court) 226. Regarding question as to whether server of U.P. Jal Nigam was ever utilized by M/s Aptech Ltd., Mr. Vishwajeet Singh denied. Regarding any query as to why answer key were not uploaded, he stated that there was clear direction from the Corporation that results would be published first. In this regard, he referred to correspondence that took place with the official of the Corporation in respect of all three categories of posts dated 09.8.2016, 7.12.2016 and 17.12.2016. Regarding any data online or offline ever made available to the Managing Director Corporation, Mr. Vishwajeet Singh clearly stated that original marks obtained by the candidates after appearing in online examination were provided to Corporation online via F.T.P. of which IP Address was 103, 8, 127,108. 227. Regarding four candidates bearing roll no. 5201211717, 5301211969, 6201212371, 5201211587 whose login ID was changed, which showed that M/s Aptech Ltd. manipulated original documents in connivance and conspiracy with officials of the Corporation, Mr. Vishwajeet Singh replied that candidates with from roll number, namely, Adarsh Kumar Pandey, Arun Saroj, Chandra Prakash Pandey, Jyoti Gupta, were given to the U.P. Jal Nigam, in which login Id of the M/s Aptech Ltd. was not given to U.P. Jal Nigam. These were finally selected and there assigned login id was never changed. This shows appointments to be ill tainted. 228. Mr. Roman Anthony Fernandes, who was then General Manager (Technical) in M/s Aptech Ltd., upon a pointed query being made towards interrogation by the SIT officials stated that the question papers for CBT in all the three categories of RGC, JE and AE were got prepared by the subject experts and it were those very experts who prepared master answer key and so, if there was any wrong questions and wrong answers given, the responsibility was of those experts only. 229. Upon an another query being made as to why the objections were not invited by publishing the master answer key, he stated that officials of U.P. Jal Nigam of finalizing the result before the publication of answer key upon instructions of officials of Jal Nigam. He however admitted that one of the clauses under the agreement was that the answer key would be published after completion of CBT. 230. On the point of undeserving candidates getting selected, he put the blame upon the corporation for asking the M/s Aptech to first process and publish the result. Upon a specific query being made as to who were officials who forced M/s Aptech Ltd. to process and publish the result first before inviting objections by publishing master answer key, he stated that after CBT was conducted meeting was held with the officials of the corporation in respect of the RGC in the first week of August, 2016, in respect of Junior Engineer in the first week of December, 2016 and in respect of Assistant Engineer in the second week of December, 2016 and in all three meetings the then Managing Director Mr. P.K. Ashudani, Chief Engineer Mr. A.K. Khare, and Senior Engineer Sri R.P. Sinha, remained present and so also the officials of M/s Aptech, namely senior Manager Mr. Santosh Rastogi and Assistant Manager Mr. Hemant Nagpal. 231. He further stated that in the meeting Aptech officials had asked for publication of the answer key but the officials of corporation directed Aptech officials to first process the result as model code of conduct for elections in the State would be notified soon. He stated that when corporation asked to give this instruction in writing, the official refused but in this regard M/s Aptech Ltd. had written letters to the corporation on 9th August, 2016 (RGC), 7th December, 2016 (JE) and 17th December, 2016 (AE) addressed to Managing Director, U.P. Jal Nigam. Regarding another query about the cloud server and the data downloaded from there consolidated in the local server, he stated that after giving soft and hard copy of the result as per the responsibilities of M/s Aptech the contract was that entire data would be for one year. He stated that after the texts the data was accumulated at the cloud server and was retained there for one month and thereafter the data was downloaded from cloud server to the local environment and its other servers. 232. Regarding another query about the retention and availability of downloaded data to the local environment, it was stated that data was available and if needed it could be provided. He stated that online data of examination never remained protected on the cloud server system and that was why it was always downloaded to the local environment and this entire data was available. 233. Regarding the question related utilization of server of U.P. Jal Nigam it was replied that it all depended upon the requirements, however, M/s Aptech Ltd. did not use the server and website of the corporation. 234. Mr. Roman Fernandes, the then General Manager of M/s Aptech Ltd. upon being interrogated, stated that question papers were drafted with the aid of experts of the subject matter and those experts, who had drafted the papers had the duty to provide answers to the master answer key. This statement was in respect of all three categories of posts for which the selections were held. 235. Regarding post examination stage activities like publishing the master answer key and the response sheet of the candidates so as to invite their objections regarding correctness of any question or correctness of answer and resolution thereof from subject experts of the fields, Mr. Fernandes reiterated the stand taken by the earlier officials, namely, Mr. Vishwajeet Singh and contended that, had the corporation not asked for supply of the CBT result and had it not directed the service provider agency to first carry out the selection process, the service provider agency would have in all circumstances published the master answer key for inviting objections from the candidates as per clause of contract. 236. Regarding data retention policy, he stated to the SIT that there was one year agreement to retain the data that consisted of registration data, attendance date, biometrics data, candidates' original response data, the original question papers and the original master answer key and these were all preserved as taken from cloud server into the local environment server. 237. Mr. Ajay Kumar Yadav, upon being interrogatted by the SIT, took the same stand as was taken by other two officials of M/s Aptech Ltd. Further upon a pointed query being made regarding primary data of cloud server whether it was securely preserved with him or not, he denied. According to him, the data was taken from the cloud server to local server and further securing it by applying a code No.- 513. 238. Regarding non publication of master answer key before declaration of results of CBT, he stated that the technical team of Bombay had provided the result of CBT to Mr. P.K. Ashudani in a downloadable format which was protected with a password and this document consisted of the entire CBT result. This result was given on an Excel format with password protecting to the Managing Director Mr. P.K. Ashudani who with the help of officials of M/s Aptech submitted list of the candidates to M/s Aptech to publish it for the purposes of interview and after the interview was held final results were prepared adding the marks of interview provided by U.P. Jal Nigam. 239. Regarding matching of the list provided by Jal Nigam in a hardcopy as far as the CBT marks are concerned with the original data, Mr. Fernandes denied to have conducted any such verification or comparison further. 240. Regarding a very crucial query; since original data was deleted from the cloud server so it did make possible to change the original result available at your server because at every stage the terms and conditions of the contract were not followed and only the wish of the officials of the corporation was taken care of, Mr. Yadav very clearly stated in his reply that in a system of multiple department activity they all work independently and, therefore, it was not possible. 241. To another crucial query that corporation might have changed the results at its own stage and remaining results were kept intact because the results containing marks provided by the corporation were not compared with that available on the server of M/s Aptech Ltd., Mr. Yadav replied that it was possible. 242. Regarding non publication of the master answer key in time, in reply by Mr. Yadav stated it to be a mistake. The crucial questions asked by the SIT official from Mr. Yadav a crucial witness in the case representing M/s Aptech Ltd. as referred to herein above and his replies to the question are reproduced here under: Question-Is the primary data (cloud) safe with you? Answer - No. The technical team had saved it on the company's local server by serving it with code no. 573. Question- What was your procedure for providing the results of the candidates by Jal Nigam after the CBT exam? Answer- The Computer Based Test (CBT) result from Bombay Technical Team was made available to MD of Jal Nigam, PK Ashudani in downloadable format which was password protected. The result of all the candidates was given along with the marks of CBT. This result was in Excel format. Thereafter, the password was got applied by MD of Jal Nigam, PK Ashudani by Hemant and Santosh Rastogi of Aptech and after short-listing the list was prepared for interview and the result was again sent to Jal Nigam. After the interview in the format demanded by Jal Nigam, the interview marks were obtained from Jal Nigam in hard copy and the final merit list was prepared by adding the marks of CBT and interview and given to Jal Nigam by his team. Question- Did you match the result provided by Jal Nigam with the primary result (data) already available with Aptech or did you prepare the list for interview from the results provided by Jal Nigam and gave it to Jal Nigam while the list was in Excel form, meaning that it was possible to change the result at any stage? Answer-No, their list was not matched with that of Jal Nigam. Question- You said that the cloud server has been deleted? So was it not possible that the result provided by Jal Nigam was present on your server because you at every stage paid more attention to the wishes of Jal Nigam by not following the conditions given under the contract? Answer-Since multiple departments work independently, this is not possible at first sight. Question: Is it not possible that Jal Nigam may have made changes in the result at its own level and the rest of the results were prepared on that basis because you have said that that result was not matched with the result of Aptech. Answer-Yes. It is possible. Question - Who is responsible for not matching the two results? Answer - This is their responsibility. Question: Why was the answer key not uploaded by Aptech on time? Answer-This is a miss on the part of Aptech." (Translated by Court) 243. Mr. Neeraj Malik, another official of M/s Aptech Ltd. made similar statement as other officials of the Aptech had made and regarding a query whether transparency was maintained at the level of M/s Aptech Ltd., he stated that transparency was fully ensured and reiterated the stand that corporation had insisted for declaration of result in stead of publishing master answer key. 244. Regarding signing of an agreement by him on 13th December, 2016 itself whereas agreement took place between the corporation and M/s Aptech Ltd. on 15th December, 2016 he stated that it might have had happened but the fact was that agreement was entered on 15th December, 2016 by all the witnesses to it, namely Senior Manager Mr. Santosh Kumar Rastogi and Mr. Hemant Pal, the Assistant Manager. 245. Mr. Prem Prakash Ashudani, who was the then Managing Director of U.P. Jal Nigam, upon being interrogated by the officials of the special investigating team stated that insofar as the recruitment of Routine Grade Clerks and that of Stenographers are concerned, it was the duty of the Chief Engineer (A-3) Mr. Anil Kumar Khare and it was he, who used to undertake correspondence for any query made in regard to the select list. 246. Regarding Assistant Engineer he stated that the responsibility was of Mr. Pramod Kumar Sinha and after his retirement the responsibility fell upon Mr. Anil Kumar Khare. 247. Regarding a query as to why the recruitment process undertaken in respect of the 32 Stenographers was suddenly stopped and cancelled, he stated that only 32 candidates were found eligible after due relaxation accorded, for which the recommendation was made to the Chairman/ Hon'ble Minister, through the office of the officer on special duty, Mr. Syed Affaqu Ahmad but in order to get more meritorious candidates in future by conducting the re-examination, the then selection process in progress was cancelled. 248. Regarding a query being made as to why the answer sheets were not published despite there being a condition so prescribed under the contract, he gove only this much reply that it was the duty of M/s Aptech Ltd. and if it had not adopted this procedure, it was to be blamed only. He stated that he never directed M/s Aptech not to invite objections and so far as the letter written by M/s Aptech on 17th December, 2016 was concerned, he claimed to have knowledge of any such letter. 249. Regarding action to be taken against M/s Aptech Ltd. for violating terms and conditions of the contract it is stated by Mr. P.K. Ashudani that the serious lapses that happened at the end of M/s Aptech was subject matter of inquiry for which a committee was duly constituted. 250. To another question for ensuring sanctity and transparency in an open competitive examination by inviting applications through public tender procedure, Mr. Ashudani in reply stated that in the year 2013 when tender was uploaded only two agencies had applied, out of which one agency was selected because the other agency had no requisite infrastructure facility. He further stated that generally the Government institutions do not undertake to conduct competitive examinations and, since work was of such magnitude in respect of open competitive tests to be held by inviting applications for holding selection on posts in public employment that only limited number of agencies were having this experience and expertise and, therefore, inviting of tender could not have fetched good result. 251. He stated that not only KNIT was not agreeing to online mode of test and showed its inability to conduct online tests, even the financial proposal that was placed by the KNIT, Sultanpur was much higher than what was proposed by M/s. Aptech Limited and that was why M/s. Aptech Limited was selected and given the work order. Regarding the selection being held in a hurried manner by providing instructions that entire selection was to be concluded within four months, Mr. Ashudani in reply stated that there was an urgent requirement to make appointments upon vacant positions and normally four months time is consumed in conducting selection and issuing appointments. Since the post of Assistant Engineer was outside purview Public Service Commission, therefore, no approval was required from the State Cabinet for carrying out recruitment drive. Regarding declaration of results in respect of the vacancies of Assistant Engineer and Junior Engineer and issuing appointment order just a day or two before the notification of Model Code of Conduct in view of the forthcoming Legislative Assembly elections, Mr. Ashudani replied that in matters of selection and appointment through Public Service Commission or Staff Selection Commission such examination and selection process continues even after notification of the election. Moreover, in this case only joining was to be given as rest of the exercise was already over. Therefore, he asserted, the results were declared and appointment orders were issued. Regarding four candidates namely Mohd. Shams, Syed Ahmad Ali, Samrah Ahmad and Kailash Vishwakarma whose response to questions either the correct or incorrect answers were all similar as 58 same questions were correctly answered and two same questions were attempted with same wrongly answer choice for which they were allotted same marks, Mr. Ashudani replied that this matter did not come to his notice, nor was placed before him while he was in service and therefore, in that regard such query may be put to M/s. Aptech Limited. 252. Regarding sanction of loan of Rs. 300 crores, he submits that there was no such issue there and instead letters were written and correspondence was made with the State Government to convert the Corporation into a Government Corporation. Regarding procedures not being followed or followed in hurried manner that may have resulted in serious lapses, Mr. Ashudani stated in reply that with the appointment order issued in respect of RGC on 19.11.2016 and till the joining of Junior Engineers made on 16.01.2017, in all two months' time took place and the period of four months under the contract was the maximum period and not the minimum period. Regarding general powers of management of the Corporation and the exercise of power of the Chairman who enjoyed it in the ex-officio capacity, Mr. Ashudani told to the SIT officials that in terms of Section 8 and 89 of the relevant Act, all the crucial decisions had to be taken by the department of Urban Development and for taking certain decisions the Board of Directors had authorized the Chairman of U.P. Jal Nigam and in that regard a circular letter was issued on 20.10.1987, photocopy of which had been handed over to the Investigating Officer. He further stated that since regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation would ordinarily not take place and which resultantly would have seriously affected the working of the Corporation, therefore, the Chairman was authorized to take decision in the matter and since he was heading the Board as Chairman and being a very senior Cabinet Minister, some of the decisions were left to his discretion accordingly. Regarding a query that four posts out of 9 posts Assistant Engineers were directed to the trade of Computer Science and Electronic Communication out of way by the Chairman of U.P. Jal Nigam and for relaxation in the matter of appointment of Stenographers the proposal was mooted though the Officer on Special Duty for which neither the O.S.D. was competent, nor the Chairman of the Board, he replied that there were three circular letters issued from time to time for carrying out properly the work of three departments which were being headed by the Minister concerned and as per the wish of the Minister the papers used to be processed through the OSD concerned only. Regarding financial sanction in respect of vacancies in question that were required from the State Government and that under the U.P. Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1975 the fund was to be spent only upon work relating to the Services of the Sewer and Water Supply, he stated that these are the provisions under the Act for which he cannot make any comment but he was apprised on 05.12.2017 that the loan that was provided by the Government for that no demand was raised by the Corporation. The only demand raised was that the department should be made a Government Department so that the dues qua salary and pension of retired employees should be cleared and out of total demand of Rs. 374/- crores only a limited amount was paid. 253. Another person who was crucial to the controversy and interrogated by the SIT was Syed Afaq Ahmad, the Officer on Special Duty directly attached to the then Minister of Urban Development and Chairman of U.P. Jal Nigam Mr. Azam Khan. Regarding four posts of the Assistant Engineers (Mechanical and Electrical) that were diverted to the trade of Computer Science and Electronic Communication, he stated that in that regard the Board of Directors had granted approval but he did not remember the exact date. With regard to the permission taken from the State Government for amending the regulation, he stated that he had no information regarding the same. On the question of placement of the file before the Urban Development Department and the remarks made upon the same, he stated that the budget was allocated to U.P. Jal Nigam by the State Govt. as U.P. Jal Nigam did not have its own budget, nor any other source of income and whatever the papers were forwarded to the Government by the U. P. Jal Nigam, were forwarded to the Chairman Mr. Azam Khan. Regarding cancellation of recruitment drive in respect of posts of Stenographers, he stated that that was all within the domain of Managing Director of U.P. Jal Nigam and he had unnecessarily forwarded the papers to the office of the Chairman. Regarding Computer based test results, he stated that he had no such information that entire result had reached the office of U.P. Jal Nigam. 254. Regarding procedure adopted in the CBT conducted in respect of Assistant Engineers, Junior Engineers and that of the Routine Grade Clerks, he stated it to be the duty of M/s. Aptech Limited and as per the information received by him the question papers were drafted by the subject experts. Regarding the act and conduct of M/s. Aptech Limited in not publishing the master answer key despite there being a clause under the agreement, he stated that since oral directions were issued by the Corporation to first declare the result and proceed with the selection process, neither the master answer key, nor the response sheets were published. Regarding four persons namely Mohd. Shams, Syed Ahmad Ali, Samrah Ahmad and Kailash Vishwakarma obtaining similar marks in CBT attempting same number of questions as correct and same number of questions as incorrect with the similar incorrect answers, he stated that this can be taken only as a coincidence. The question whether subject experts can be from anywhere, he stated in reply that subject experts can be taken from anywhere but in order to ensure transparency, the experts were taken from outside the State. 255. After discussing these statements of the crucial witnesses who were interrogated by the SIT, I would now like to refer to the crucial documents also examined by the SIT. Out of various documents that were examined by the SIT, the most crucial of the documents were the report submitted by the CFSL which was discussed by it in detail while conducting analysis of the evidence collected by it in arriving at a conclusion that the offences under various sections of IPC and the Special Acts charged against those accused persons were made out. The SIT report has discussed it in detail in its analysis part to arrive at a final conclusion that it did identify such persons whose marks retrieved from the original data base of the hard disks were not same as provided by the SIT for comparison purposes and 169 such candidates were identified in such category who would not have been called for interview for inflated marks. The SIT also examined the details provided to it regarding constitution of the Interview Board, the list of candidates who were selected for the purpose of interview and upon drawing an average time spent per candidate concluded that not much time was available to the Board to conduct interview of the candidates so as to appreciate and assess their personality. 256. The SIT has also examined the experts of the interview board so as to elicit from them as to whether any kind of influence was ever exercised upon any of them to favour a particular candidate or a particular category of candidate. The SIT has also gone into the details of incorrect questions and incorrect answers to which objections were raised and having recorded and analysed the oral statements as well as the documentary material it finally concluded that in the matter of selection process for conspiracy of the officials of the Corporation with those of M/s. Aptech Limited, the selection process appeared to have been absolutely compromised and sufficient evidence was there available to it to charge these officials of M/s. Aptech Limited and those of Corporation for committing offence under various sections of Indian Penal Code, the Information and Technology Act and the Prevention of Corruption Act. 257. Two Officers of U.P. Jal Nigam, namely, Anoop Kumar Saxena, the then Chief Engineer (Urban) and Rakesh Nigam, the then Engineer, Level-II, who had submitted initial two reports, were also interrogated by S.I.T. and during their interrogation they have been only queries as to those aspects of the matter regarding permission not taken to fill up the vacancies and that the Committee which was constituted to look after the Corporation never held any meeting and they only stated that looking to the circumstances involvement of highups of the Corporation in vitiating the selection process cannot be denied. 258. In its final analysis it has referred to certain admitted facts that emerge out from interrogation: 259. Upon arriving at these above findings on the basis of material available to it and detailed interrogations carried out with various process, the SIT found that charges levelled against these named accused persons stood valid so as to prosecute them under various sections of IPC, Prevention of Corruption Act and Information and Technology Act and hence it filed the charge sheets. 260. Having discussed and examined all the above reports minutely the findings arrived at, in general, as contained in the reports, I summarize them as under: 261. The above findings have weighed decision of the respondent Corporation in annulling the entire selection of RGC, AE, JE and resultant cancellation of appointments. 262. Having dealt with the various report in extenso in this judgment and having examined the order impugned, before I give my final verdict, I consider it appropriate at this stage to consider the authorities/ rulings cited before me by the learned Advocates appearing for respective parties. Rulings cited for petitioners 263. Learned Advocates appearing for petitioner have heavily relied upon the authority in the case of Indrapreet Khalon and others Vs. State of Punjab and others 2006 (11) SCC 356. In this case controversy had arisen for cancellation of entire selection process by the State Government qua the selection and appointment of Officers of the PCS executive branch as well as PCS Judicial branch. High Court had constituted a scrutiny committee which submitted a report on the basis of which High Court had affirmed the decision of the State Government. The finding of the High Court was to the effect that corrupt means were adopted to secure selection by the candidates which vitiated the entire selection process and because of a large scale corruption and malpractice and manipulation of marks and other illegalities that were committed during the tenure of the then Chairman Ravindrapal Singh Siddhu, there remained no doubt that the entire selection deserved annulment. Supreme Court dealing with the SLP, framed a question as to whether due to misdeed of some of the candidates, honest and meritorious candidates could also be permitted to suffer. In the said judgment the Court categorized vide paragraph-52 the various authorities falling in different categories. (emphasis added) 264. The Court then proceeded to refer to earlier judgment in the case of Benni TD v. Registrar Cooperative Societies (1998) 55 SCC 269 where the Court had referred to the contention raised that for a tampering of marks in respect of several candidates would draw a conclusion that there had been no fair and objective selection and public interest demanded annulment of selection, and then rejected the same. It then referred to another judgment in the case of Omkar Lal Bajaj v. Union of India (2003) 2 SCC 673 in which the issue of en masse cancellation of LPG distributors on the plea that uneuqals were clubbed together as a result of arbitrary exercise of executive power, had arisen. The court observed vide paragraph 45 in the said judgment that "solution by resorting to cancellation all more worse than the problem. Cure was worse than a disease". Dealing with the principles of law on the point of public interest or probity in governance, the Court referred to paragraphs 35 and 36 of that very judgment, which are reproduced hereunder: 265. Having perused those judgments on the point of cancellation en masse only on account of certain irregularities detected in respect of a few, the court vide paragraph-58 rejected the arguments of Mr. Dhawan in Khalon's case that decision of the commission was collegiate in nature. 266. The Court having thus discussed authorities above and applying the same on the facts of the said case directed the matter to be re-examined by the High Court after constituting a committee afresh to find out those who were tainted. Thus the matter was remitted to segregate tainted from untainted candidates vide paragraphs 94, 95 of the judgment the Court now reproduced as under: 267. Disagreeing on some points, the other Judge on Bench Justice Dalveer Bhandari, as his Lordship then was, in agreement with Senior Judge, observed vide paragraph 127 thus: 268. Another judgment relied upon is in the case of Joginder Pal and another Vs. State of Punjab (2014) 6 SCC 644. This judgment arose out of same controversy, as after the remand of the matter in the case of Inderpreet Khalon (supra) the High Court again held that the entire selection process and consequential appointments to be result of manipulations, forgery and fraud even though tainted candidates were identified and were segregated, the court while dealing with the judgment of the High Court very categorically held that a Court was always required to consider the foundational facts and once foundational facts are established then principle of law could be made applicable to test whether appointments were made in violation of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution being result of such an absolute arbitrary exercise of power. The Court expressed its view that there existed distinction between a proven case of mass-cheating and unproven charge of corruption and it is only in those circumstances where it is found to be highly improbable to identify the tainted candidates to segregate them from untainted candidates, that mass cancellation of selection and appointment could be resorted to. These were the principles that were discussed along with related principles of law qua selection and appointments on the basis of the judgment in the case of Indrapreet Khalon vide paragraph 10.1 to 10-5 which are relevant for the purpose of the case and hence are being reproduced hereunder: If the services of appointees who had put in a few years of service were terminated, compliance with three principles at the hands of the State was imperative viz.: (1) to establish satisfaction in regard to the sufficiency of the materials collected so as to enable the State to arrive at its satisfaction that the selection process was tainted; (2) to determine the question that the illegalities committed went to the root of the matter, which vitiated the entire selection process. Such satisfaction as also the sufficiency of materials were required to be gathered by reason of a thorough investigation in a fair and transparent manner; (3) whether the sufficient material present enabled the State to arrive at a satisfaction that the officers in majority had been found to be part of the fraudulent purpose or the system itself was corrupt. 10.5 Once the necessary factual findings as enumerated above are arrived at, or it is found impossible or highly improbable to separate tainted from untainted cases, all appointments traceable to the officers concerned could be cancelled. But admittedly, in the present case, although there had been serious imputations against Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu being at the helm of the affairs of the State Public Service Commission, all decisions made by the Commission during his tenure are yet to be set aside." 269. The Court after examining the entire controversy in hand in the said case and the judgment in the case of Khalon observed that in Khalon's case the Court had not accepted the submission of respondent that it was not practicably possible to segregate tainted from untainted candidates. The Court, therefore, in the circumstances when there was no evidence available to hold those who had been offered appointment and had discharged duties pursuant to the appointment orders who had not in any manner in-judged in any fraud in finding place in the select list their appointment and posting orders were to be saved against the existing vacancies and in the circumstances if the vacancies were were not there then supernumerary posts were directed to be created giving them limited benefit. Vide paragraph 44 the Court held thus: 270. The Court also dealt with the statistics as was recorded in the judgment of the High Court where 66% of the persons who were offered appointments, were tainted and which influenced selection process. This percentage was drawn/ worked out taking both direct recruits and nominated candidates together and out of 93 direct recruits 76 had joined and only 10 were found to be tainted. So percentage of tainted candidates in the nominated category was higher to the extent of 80 percent and, therefore, direct recruits were held to be wrongly equated with nominated officers. The Court then held that direct recruits were mostly non-tainted who were appellant before the Court. 271. Thus the Supreme Court set aside the judgment of the High Court and saved those who were selected and appointed falling in untainted category, vide paragraph 47 and 48 the Court held thus:. 47. We may note that the High Court has recorded in the impugned judgment [Amarbir Singh v. State of Punjab, CWP No. 8421 of 2002, decided on 31-5-2013 (P&H)] that 66% cases were found to be of the persons given appointment who were tainted, which influenced the entire selection process. However, during the course of arguments, it was placed before us that the aforesaid percentage is worked out by taking the cases of direct recruits and nominated candidates together. If the figures are separately taken, out of 93 direct recruits, 76 have joined and only 10 are found to be tainted. In fact, the percentage of such tainted candidates in nominated category was much higher i.e. 80%. It was, thus, argued that the cases of direct recruits cannot be taken along with those in nominated category, who influenced the decision in their matter as well. This is also a supportive and important fact which goes in favour of these appellants viz. the non-tainted direct recruits. 48. The aforesaid discursive exercise prompts us to set aside the judgment [Amarbir Singh v. State of Punjab, CWP No. 8421 of 2002, decided on 31-5-2013 (P&H)] of the High Court in respect of these persons with the direction that the appellants be allowed to join the duties forthwith. It is, however, made clear that the intervening period during which they remained out of service shall not count for seniority or any other benefit. However, these persons shall be given the benefit of service rendered by them earlier viz. from September 1999 till 22-5-2002, when they actually worked, for the purpose of seniority and future promotion, etc. These appeals are partly allowed to the aforesaid extent. There shall, however, be no order as to costs. 272. The other judgment which is cited by Mr. Khare is the case of State of N.C.T. Delhi and another v. Sanjeev @ Bittu , (2005) 5 SCC 181. The judgment has been cited on the point of judicial review. The principle of judicial review has been discussed in the judgment at a great length vis a vis the principle of Wednsebury Unreasonableness and the Court has very categorically held that this power of judicial review can be exercised on the ground of illegality, irrationality and procedural impropriety. It is observed that the Court will be slow to interfere in matters relating administrative functions unless decision suffers from any vulnerability enumerated as illegality, irrationally and procedural impropriety. If the actions taken falls in any of the above categories then it will be a established case of exercise of power not justified one and will fall within the mischief of Wednsebury Unreasonableness. Vide paragraphs 19 to 25 the Court has held thus: Lord Greene also observed (KB p. 230 : All ER p. 683 F-G)
 
 "... it must be proved to be unreasonable in the sense that the court considers it to be a decision that no reasonable body can come to. It is not what the court considers unreasonable. ... The effect of the legislation is not to set up the court as an arbiter of the correctness of one view over another." (emphasis supplied)
 
 Therefore, to arrive at a decision on "reasonableness" the court has to find out if the administrator has left out relevant factors or taken into account irrelevant factors. The decision of the administrator must have been within the four corners of the law, and not one which no sensible person could have reasonably arrived at, having regard to the above principles, and must have been a bona fide one. The decision could be one of many choices open to the authority but it was for that authority to decide upon the choice and not for the court to substitute its view. 20. The principles of judicial review of administrative action were further summarised in 1985 by Lord Diplock in CCSU case [(1984) 3 All ER 935 : 1985 AC 374 : (1984) 3 WLR 1174 (HL)] as illegality, procedural impropriety and irrationality. He said more grounds could in future become available, including the doctrine of proportionality which was a principle followed by certain other members of the European Economic Community. Lord Diplock observed in that case as follows : Lord Diplock explained "irrationality" as follows : (All ER p. 951a-b)
 
 "By 'irrationality' I mean what can by now be succinctly referred to as 'Wednesbury unreasonableness'. It applies to a decision which is so outrageous in its defiance of logic or of accepted moral standards that no sensible person who had applied his mind to the question to be decided could have arrived at it." 21. In other words, to characterise a decision of the administrator as "irrational" the court has to hold, on material, that it is a decision "so outrageous" as to be in total defiance of logic or moral standards. Adoption of "proportionality" into administrative law was left for the future. 22. These principles have been noted in the aforesaid terms in Union of India v. G. Ganayutham [(1997) 7 SCC 463 : 1997 SCC (L&S) 1806] . In essence, the test is to see whether there is any infirmity in the decision-making process and not in the decision itself. (See Indian Rly. Construction Co. Ltd. v. Ajay Kumar [(2003) 4 SCC 579 : 2003 SCC (L&S) 528] .) 23. Though Section 52 limits the scope of consideration by the courts, the scope for judicial review in writ jurisdiction is not restricted, subject of course to the parameters indicated supra. 24. It is true that some material must exist but what is required is not an elaborate decision akin to a judgment. On the contrary the order directing externment should show existence of some material warranting an order of externment. While dealing with the question mere repetition of the provision would not be sufficient. Reference is to be made to some material on record and if that is done, the requirements of law are met. As noted above, it is not the sufficiency of material but the existence of material which is sine qua non. 25. As observed in Gazi Saduddin case [(2003) 7 SCC 330 : 2003 SCC (Cri) 1637] satisfaction of the authority can be interfered with if the satisfaction recorded is demonstratively perverse based on no evidence, misreading of evidence or which a reasonable man could not form or that the person concerned was not given due opportunity resulting in prejudice. To that extent, objectivity is inbuilt in the subjective satisfaction of the authority." 273. Mr. Khare has also relied upon a Division Bench judgment of this Court in the case of Akanksha Yadav v. State of U.P. and 5 others in Special Appeal Defective No.- 127 of 2023 decided on 12th April, 2023, wherein the matter was that the Commission suo motu acted to re-evaluate the amendments after making recommendation of those very appellants. Citing the authorities of this Court itself and one of the Supreme Court wherein the Court had saved those candidates who were selected by giving them placement at the bottom of rectified select list, vide paragraph 17 the Court has held thus: 274. Learned counsel for the petitioner has also relied upon the judgment in the case of Ran Vijay Singh and others v. State of U.P. and others (2018) 2 SCC 437. This judgment has been relied upon for emphasising the point that once the candidates have been selected and subsequently the revision of marks has taken place, then this re-evaluation or for that matter third evaluation that had taken place in that case , will not prejudice the selected candidates. The Court in that case has adopted the middle path in the given facts and circumstances of the said case, to permit Board to declare the third set result after reevaluation but at the same time protected those candidates who had already been selected and might have to be declared unsuccessful on account of the third reevaluation exercise. Vide paragraphs 34, 35 and 36 the Court had held thus: 275. Mr. Khare has relied upon the latest judgment of Supreme Court in the case of Vanshika Yadav vs Union of India and others ; 2024 SCC Online SC 1870. In this case, the petitioners had filed a number of writ petitions directly before the Supreme Court questioning the results in respect of CBT conducted for National Eligibility Entrance Test for admission for under graduate medical course, by the National Testing Agency. The argument advanced before the Supreme Court was that since investigation into the complaint qua leak of paper and adoption of other unfair means initially by the Bihar Police and later on by the Central Bureau of Investigation called for inaction to cancel the entire examination with a direction N.T.A. to conduct afresh. The Court heard the matter and framed three issues: 276. It is the judgment upon the third issue which is relevant for the purpose of this case. 277. In the first instance, the Court discussed the position of law vide paragraphs 62 to 69. The Court held that in arriving at a conclusion as to whether an examination suffers from vide spread irregularities, the Court must ensure that allegations of malpractice are substantiated and that the material on record including investigative reports, point to that conclusion there must be at least some evidence to allow the Court to reach to that conclusion and, therefore, "in the absence of any specific or categorical finding supported by any correct and relevant material that vide spread infirmities of perversive nature there is no need to hold that there were irregularities into conduct of selection at systemic level". Vide paragraphs-70 to 84, the Court discussed the facts and came to conclude that it was possible to separate the beneficiaries of malpractice or fraud from the honest students. These paragraphs are reproduced hereunder: 278. Learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has also relied upon the authority in the case of Anamika Mishra and others v. Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission, Allahabad , 1990 Suppl. SCC 692, where the Court was considering the plea that all those candidates, who though had scored better marks in the written but could not do well in interview/ personality test. The Court did not appreciate cancellation of written examination and in the given facts of that case where no appointments were made the Court directed for interview afresh only. 279. Yet another judgment relied upon is of Kapil Kumar and others v. State of U.P. and others , (2023) SCC Online 4024. The controversy in the said case had arisen only on account of challenge being made to certain questions/ answers. The Court vide paragraph 31 issued the following directions instead of offering cancellation of entire selection: 280. Yet another judgment of Supreme Court has been cited in the case of Shri Dhar Yadav and others v. State of U.P. and others , wherein upon a misc. application No.- 566 of 2024 in SLP (Civil) No.- 25828 of 2023, learned Solicitor General on behalf of the State of Uttar Pradesh had made statement before the Court that in the event if petitioners before the Court succeed, they would be adjusted against supernumerary posts. The judgment has been cited to take the plea that the candidates, who have been selected and appointed if after the revision of marks due to solution to the challenged questions and answers if merit gets revised then those already selected may be protected. Rulings cited for Respondents 281. Mr. Goyal has sought to urge before the Court and so strenuously that since the authority has considered all the reports available to it, this Court may not exercise the power of judicial review on the ground that the material considered by the corporation was not sufficient enough to arrive at a conclusion to which it has arrived. In this regard Mr. Goyal has relied upon the authority in the case of Mohinder Singh Gill and another v. Chief Election Commissioner and others , 1978 (1) SCC 405, in which vide paragraph 8 the Court held thus: 282. Yet another judgment relied upon is of the Division Bench of this Court in the case of M/s Aptech Ltd. v. U.P. Power Corporation and others , (2019) SCC Online Allahabad 4906. In this matter the Court considered the order of black listing passed by the State Government in respect of M/s Aptech Ltd. on the basis of inquiry report conducted by the STF relating to the examination conducted by the agency for making recruitment on the post of Stenographer Grad III and Office Assistant III Accounts, Additional Personal Assistant, Assistant Review Officer, Junior Engineer (Electrical). 283. Mr. Goyal has placed reliance of paragraphs 14, 18, 20, 22, 23, 28 and 30 of the judgment, wherein the Court considered the report of STF replying to the M/s Aptech Ltd. to the show cause notice and the Sate action in black listing the agency and also in respect of the proportionality of the decision taken. The Court in the said judgment had relied upon the authority of the Supreme Court in the case of Teri Oat Estates Pvt. Ltd. v. Union Territory, Chandigarh , (2004) 2 SCC 130. 284. Mr. Goyal has also relied upon the judgment in the case of Sachin Kumar and others v. Delhi Subordinate Service Selection Board and others , (2021) 4 SCC 631 to canvass the principle of judicial review as he has argued by him before this Court that there was no flaw in the decision making process by the authority while arriving at a conclusion under the order impugned. According to him, since the Court itself permitted that all available reports be taken into account including such other reports that are made available to it, in view of Division Bench judgment in the case of Mahesh Kesharwani and others v. Amrish Kumar Pandey and others in Special Appeal No.- Defective No.- 625 of 2019 decided on 31st July, 2019 the decision would be subject to SIT report, the authority of the corporation also considered the SIT report. 285. Yet another judgment relied upon is of learned Single Judge of Madras High Court in the case of R. Prem Lata & Others v. State of Tamilnadu and others being Writ No. 19939 of 2014 and other connected matters decided on 17.11.2022. The controversy in the said case arose on account of cancellation of entire selection and appointments as a result of a report of the Administrator which was indicative of large scale fraud committed in which 156 candidates were found to be tainted. Allotment of marks in the said case without experience, less experience, drastically changed the rank in the selection. The Court found that the findings arrived at by the Administrator as a matter of fact affected the rights of hundreds of meritorious candidates who had participated in the process of selection. It is submitted by Mr. Goyal that the court emphasised on the principle of law where the candidates have been deprived of equal opportunity as enshrined under the Constitution and this mandate was violated and that at a too large a scale, then in such circumstances segregation of untainted candidates became difficult. 286. According to Mr. Goyal the Court acknowledged that in cases where there is a deep rooted illegality and irregularity in awarding marks to candidates on pick and chose basis, then it becomes a case of systemic fraud and fraud unravels everything and therefore, looking to the larger public interest in matters of public employment, such selection and appointments are liable to be annulled. 287. Learned Advocate has relied upon paragraph nos. 79 to 83 of the judgment which are reproduced hereunder: ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 288. According to Mr. Goyal, learned Senior Advocate and learned Additional Advocate General appearing for the Corporation, Mr. Ajeet Kumar Singh, learned Additional Advocate General appearing for the State of U.P., Mr. Sanjay Kumar Om, learned Advocate appearing for U.P. Jal Nigam (Rural) these findings based upon various reports supported by sufficient material and so if the authority has arrived at a particular conclusion, this conclusion cannot be held bad on the ground that decision making process was a flawed one. Further, this Court may not in exercise of its power of judicial review upset the decision for the material being not sufficient, nor on the ground that there was a possibility to arrive at a different conclusion. On the principle of Wellsburry Law of reasonableness, what a prudent man would come to conclude, in fact has been concluded in the order impugned by the competent authority. 289. On the contrary the argument as quoted in the earlier part of this judgment led by Mr. Ashok Khare, Mr. R.K. Ojha, learned Senior Advocate, Mr. Ashish Mishra and Mr. Seemant Singh, learned Advocates have in fact questioned the findings firstly on the ground that forensic examination experts' report of IIT, Kanpur and IIIT, Allahabad was not tenable being not within the legal framework as prescribed for under the Information Technology Act, 2000 and secondly, the findings arrived at to the effect that there was no possibility to segregate tainted from untainted candidates are perverse and material available itself identified untainted candidates. 290. Learned Advocates had further argued that under the orders of the Court while liberty was to examine the reports only to find out as to whether it was possible to identify tainted and untainted candidates. The further argument was that there was neither any seal by the court in approving either the reports, nor there was any judgment by the Court that entire selection undertaken by the respondents was compromised. 291. I have already referred to the arguments of learned Advocates as were advanced before me and the authorities cited by them before the Court, both on behalf of petitioners as well as respondents and have also discussed them at length. For testing their rival statements on principle of law laid down in various authorities cited before me and applying them to the facts involved in the case in hand and to find answer to the question framed initially in the earlier part of this judgment, I need to find answer to the following questions: 292. Now I proceed to examine the evidenciary value of the report submitted by the CFSL and whether it is sufficient to segregate tainted from untainted candidates. 293. The CFSL, Hyderabad is one of the six Forensic Science Laboratories in the country. The other Forensic Science Laboratories are at Chandigarh, Kolkata, Bhopal, Pune and Guwahati. The CFSL, Hyderabad was the first one created and established in the year 1967. It had been earlier also a government agency and still continues to be a government agency even after 2002. It is a wing of Ministry of Home Affairs. With the new Act coming into force namely the Directorate of Forensic Science, 2002 the Ministry of Home Affairs vide its letter dated 31.12.2002, it recognized and accredited the CFSL at Hyderabad to Directorate of Forensic Science Services, Department of Home Affairs. It is an accredited Laboratory to perform forensic examination of materials qua criminal and civil. It is a highly innovative and productive entity of Ministry and that of law enforcement agencies. Thus, there cannot be any doubt about the fact that CFSL, Hyderabad is a government laboratory established by Government to carry out forensic examination of material provided to it in whatever form within the legal frame work. Information Technology Act, 2000 came to be enacted with a purpose to look into the forensic examination of various records stored and supplied using digital technology. It provides for verification in relation to all such digital tools that are applied for storing the data and also digital signatures, other electronic records or public key that it is grammatical variations and cognate expressions which has been further defined in Section 2(z)(h) as under: 294. Vide Section 79-A it provides for Central Government to notify the examiner of electronic evidence. Section 79-A of the Act is reproduced hereunder: 295. From a bare reading of aforesaid provisions, it is clear that an authority has to specify by notification in official gazette any department body or agency either of the Central Government or State Government as examiner of electronic evidence. The Ministry of Home Affairs having notified the CFSL, Hyderabad as a Government agency to carry our forensic examination of records, it goes without saying that the report submitted by CFSL, Hyderabad would fall within the definition of report under the Information and Technology Act, 2000 and therefore, have full evidenciary value for the purposes of courts/ judicial proceedings. 296. Having arrived at the above finding, I may hold that the report submitted by the CFSL will hold good for determination of controversy involved in hand in the present case and since the CFSL report has not been questioned either by the Corporation or State Government at any stage at any forum, therefore, it would depend now as to how the court evaluates the report of CFSL. 297. I have already discussed the report in detail in the earlier part of this judgment but it is necessary her to summarise the same: 298. Having summarised the findings arrived at in the report of CFSL as above, I am not able to accept the argument of Mr. Khare that the authenticity of the data provided by the CFSL to be doubtful and therefore, it could not be said that findings arrived in identifying 169 candidates by the CFSL were conclusive. Mr. Khare seems to have based his arguments on the basis of the argument advanced by learned counsel for the Corporation that the original data had stood deleted and the expert opinion of the IIT was to the effect that there was no place available to the software tools which were given access for verification of data, inasmuch as, in the background that the original data had stood deleted from the original cloud server. 299. In my considered view, Mr. Khare could not have maintained the argument relying upon certain findings arrived at by the respondent authorities that the original data's authenticity was under cloud while questioning the decision which is also based upon the report of SIT that had relied upon CFSL report. 300. The CFSL report is held to be within the legal framework of IT Act, 2000 and that sufficient evidence to identify and segregate tainted candidates. Thus question Nos. (i) and (ii) are decided accordingly. 301. The question that arises for consideration is as to what would the effect of deletion of original data from the cloud server of (CtrlS) and whether for a mere act of the deleting the primary source data from the primary source cloud server soon after its expiry of a period of 30 days as per data retention policy of M/s Aptech Ltd., can it be assumed that whatever data was left there in the storage at the local environment office of the Aptech lost its integrity and whether it would go to the root of the matter to hold that there was not data available to verify so as to hold that sanctity of the CBT got eroded. 302. I have carefully examined the contract agreement between Corporation and M/s Aptech Ltd. and I have no reason to doubt that as per recitals made in Clause 'e' of the conditions made thereunder M/s Aptech Ltd. was required to hold back data for a period of one year. The agreement Clause E which I have already quoted above in earlier part of this judgment does not in any manner lead to draw a conclusion that M/s Aptech Ltd. was required to retain data at its primary source cloud server for one year. What inference can be drawn from the terms of contract is that M/s Aptech Ltd. will preserve data for one year and as and when required by the Corporation, M/s Aptech Ltd. will certainly be furnishing the requisite data. 303. Nothing has been brought on record on behalf of the Corporation in its entire counter filed in Samrah Ahmad or Surendra Singh's case from where it can be deduced that Corporation at any point of time required original data downloaded from the CtrlS cloud server to be furnished. What Corporation required as the correspondences showed that result of CBT data be given and that was of course given to the Corporation in CD form. Had there been any effort to the Corporation to request to provide access to the data storage device of the Aptech Ltd. so as to verify the original data that was downloaded from the cloud server and Aptech had failed to provide access, it could have been presumed that date was lost. The question, therefore, now remains to be answered whether in the given facts and circumstances M/s Aptech Ltd. can be held to have breached the contract. In my considered, Aptech cannot be said to have breached the contract by just getting download the original data from the cloud server CtrlS to it storage device. The agreement between Corporation and Aptech Ltd. does not show anything from its clauses that secondary storage device could not be utilized by Aptech for storing the data. There is also nothing in agreement, which may have further guided for the agreement between Aptech Ltd and CtrlS. It is an admitted position on facts that the cloud server was be utilized for live CBT to be held and was to be utilized for uploading the application forms of candidate and also providing for admit cards online. All these data were live on a cloud server hired by M/s Aptech Ltd, may be for a period of 30 days but that agreement between Aptech Ltd and cloud server are not in issue. It is worth noticing here the terms of contract as has been highlighted by me while reproducing the same in this judgment earlier, that propriety was there already with the service provider and the data retention policy of the year 2015 did not change. Storage of data for security purposes and to ensure data integrity, lies within the domain and discretion of the service provider. The retention policy very clearly provided for transmission of data in copy form and corporation never disputed either the contract or the data retention policy. Thus, the data saved in the assigned server in the local environment or in its archival server cannot be held to be against the terms of contract. Thus, it cannot be said that deletion of data from the cloud storage in any manner has denied an opportunity for Corporation or any other forensic agency of verifying truthfulness or correctness of the data. 304. Yet another point important to be noticed here that after hard disks were seized by SIT from the possession of the Aptech, which was there in its local environment office at Mumbai. The said hard disks were given to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory for examination. Original data was retrieved from the hard disks and was provided back to the SIT in DVD form giving a hash value so as to have access to the data downloaded from the hard disks. So endeavour of the Corporation should have been to get an access to the hard disks or DVDs from SIT to be further verified or examined from the expert of the institutes of technology. Admittedly, SIT submitted a report on 22nd January, 2020 whereas letters were written to the institutes of technology on 31st August, 2018, therefore, at that very point of time, the SIT was in possession of the CDs/DVDs provided by the CFSL containing data. The hard disks that were given to the CFSL will be deemed to be in possession of SIT and so while seeking report from the experts of the IITs they should have been provided access to the data. From the reports of the IIT experts, it is clear that opinions and observations have been made in the report with this implicit condition that all the documents and data shared with experts of the IITs had verified prominence and responses provided by personnel made available for interaction with undersigned on relevant dates ,13th and 14th December, 2018. It is, therefore, clear that original hard disks that were recovered from the possession of the Aptech Ltd. though were provided to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory for its examination, but were not provided to the experts of the IITs who were required to given their opinion, moreso when opinion was sought with this statement that original data had been deleted from the primary source cloud server. 305. M/s Aptech Ltd. has taken a stand and so firmly before this Court during course of argument by learned Advocate representing the agency that CDs that were provided to the Corporation were secondary data source as these were having processed data of result and copy of original data. Thus original data from the cloud server was either there in hard disks or there in secondary storage devices kept at Noida office of Aptech Ltd. However, despite correspondences made in that behalf nothing was done either by SIT or Corporation to ask for access to storage device at Noida. There is no counter affidavit filed to the counter the averments made by the Aptech in its counter affidavit filed in Ambrish Kumar Pandey 's case though it is admitted by Corporation that it is in possession of counter affidavit. Under the circumstances, it will be presumed that correspondence is made between Aptech Ltd. and the SIT were there available on record and were correct and yet no effort was made either by the Special Investigation Team or the Corporation to get access to the storage device/ Archive NAS at Noida placed office where the data were stored. The correspondence having not been denied, now the Corporation cannot take a stand that there is serious doubt about any such correspondence to have taken place. 306. It is to be noticed here that upon a pointed querry being made, learned Additional Advocate General, Mr. Ajit Kumar Singh had accepted this fact that the mail ID that was shown by the M/s Aptech Ltd. in the correspondence with SIT was in fact Mail ID of the SIT. Thus, in absence of any challenge to the CFSL report, nor anything coming out in the CFSL report questioning correctness of the data stored in the storage device, namely, 6 hard disks which also contained one hard disk having direct mirror image of data taken from the cloud server CtrlS, it can be safely concluded that the data in absence of any dispute as retrieved from the hard disks were the true data taken from primary source cloud server. 307. The stand taken by the Aptech's counsel during course of argument that data were not true data is also not sustainable for the simple reason that certificates have been issued by the responsible officers of the M/s Aptech Ltd. certifying those six hard disks one of them very clearly was mentioned as mirror image of data taken from cloud server CtrlS. Processing data was also there in one of the hard disks. It is also worth noticing that when Roman Fernandes is admitted to be the person who had authored data retention policy , if he certified that data was stored at the local environment office of M/s Aptech Ltd. at Mumbai, now M/s Aptech Ltd. cannot be permitted to take stand that Roman Fernandes was not authorized to issue any certificate, and therefore, in absence of any challenge to the data that was retrieved by the Forensic Science Laboratory, which was authorized to carry out forensic science examination being government agency of the Ministry of Human Affairs of the Government of India, it can safely be held that data that was retrieved from the hard disks provided to CFSL by the SIT contained the original data taken from the primary source cloud server. Thus question no. (iii) stands answered in negative. 308. Now I proceed to examine the arguments regarding the reports of the Associate Professors of IITs, whether to be within the legal frame work of the Information of Technology, 2000 or not. I find that the experts opinions were called for immediately after the Supreme Court wanted the corporation to place the status report as to the action taken by it in compliance of the judgment and order of Division Bench of this Court on 27th November, 2017 vide its order dated 16th March, 2020 that letters were written to the IITs asking for their respective opinions in the background of two basic information given to them in the letter: firstly, that the original data was deleted from the primary source cloud server and, therefore, whether in these circumstances any verification of the data provided in CD could have been done; and secondly, whether in these circumstances any exercise for segregation could be undertaken between tainted candidates and the untainted candidates. Although Mr. Goyal has strenuously argued that these reports of Associate Professors are based upon their knowledge, expertise with experience and skills and relate to the basic aspects of data storage by the authority who is to ensure data integrity, Mr. Goyal could not place before the Court any material by which it could be said that these IITs were in fact authorized by the appropriate Government to carry out any forensic examination of the digital records taking aid to the provisions of the Act which are undisputed to both the parties, namely Information Technology Act, 2000 . In the light of the provisions quoted in my analysis and findings upon question Nos. (i) & (ii), it becomes very much clear that an authority to carry out forensic examination of any digital records is required to be recognized and authorised so also by a certification and notification in that behalf, would carry out such forensic examination. 309. One of the arguments advanced by Mr. Goyal is that these expert reports were called for in the light of the judgment of Division Bench of this Court and, therefore, it was not a voluntary decision of the corporation to ask for the opinion from these experts. 310. I have carefully gone through the order of Division Bench dated 15th May, 2017 in Writ - A No.- 15948 of 2017 and I find that this order relating to the issue of doubtful/ incorrect questions and doubtful/ incorrect answers in respect of which objections were raised and instructions were placed before the Court that the corporation was trying to get it examined through the experts of the institutes of technology. The Court recorded the statements of learned Advocate appearing for the corporation, "it is also stated that in the event no comments are received from the said agency, the same shall be examined by some professionals in some reputed engineering colleges in the state". This observation relates to the instructions only in respect of doubtful/ incorrect questions and doubtful/ incorrect answers. Therefore, the argument advanced by Mr. Goyal that these reports were called for in the light of the order of Division Bench of this Court passed in Writ - A No.- 15948 of 2017 and in the connected matters dated 15th May, 2017 is not correct. 311. Comparing the two reports with that of Central Forensic Science Laboratory with reports obtained from the experts/ Associate Professors of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur / Institute of Information and Technology, Allahabad as to their legal status, it can be safely concluded that the reports obtained from and submitted by the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Hyderabad were within the legal frame work of the Information Technology Act, 2000 , as I have already discussed earlier whereas the reports obtained from the Institutes of Technology like IIT Kanpur and IIIT, Allahabad were definitely not within the legal frame work of the Information of Technology Act, 2000 . In the circumstances, therefore, the objections raised by Mr. Khare regarding maintainability of the report of the two experts of the Institutes of Technology is liable to be upheld. Question No. (iv) accordingly stands answered in negative. 312. Now coming to the questions as to findings arrived at by the Special Investigation Team in its final report submitted on the basis of the statements recorded of the various persons, who were interrogated and also the material perused and examined by it and approved by the State Government and whether findings by SIT as to impossibility of segregation between tainted and untainted are bad being contrary to CFSL report, in my considered view the law is very much clear that in the matter of administrative law where a decision has to be taken by the authority especially in service matter, then strict law of proof as required to establish the guilt in criminal law under Evidence Act , is not required, instead, the preponderance of probabilities is to be taken into consideration to hold the material to be sufficient one for the charge to be proved. 313. Supreme Court in the case of State of Rajasthan and others v. Heem Singh , (2021) 12 SCC 569, referred to its earlier judgment in the case of Moni Shankar v. Union of India , (2008) 3 SCC 484 in which vide paragraph 17 it was held thus: 314. Applying the above principle to the facts of present case, where the SIT has interrogated a large number of persons out of which statements of certain persons are very crucial to the controversy in hand and which are being chiefly relied upon by the Special Investigation Team by submitting its final report, it becomes necessary to analyse the statements recorded by the SIT during interrogation to come to the conclusion whether the findings arrived in SIT report are perverse or are worth reliance to justify the decisions taken by the corporation under the orders impugned. Although Mr. Khare has argued vehemently that the police report is nothing but a simple report under Section 173(2) of Code of Criminal Procedure and, therefore, will not be having any evidentiary value and the statements so recorded by it are further to be proved in the testimonies that are taken and recorded during the criminal trial but in my considered view, the statement can be taken into consideration in order to test the findings finally arrived/ returned by the Special Investigating Team in its final report holding that the entire selection process stood compromised. As that report has been heavily relied upon in the order impugned and so this is to be seen on the same principle of preponderance of probability. 315. The principle of what a prudent man would realise in understanding a point to arrive at a conclusion has been taken to be a wednesbury reasonableness principle and has been discussed in the judgment of Supreme Court in the case of M. Siddiq (D) through legal representatives Ram Janm Bhumi Temple Case v. Mahant Suresh Das and others, (2020) 1 SCC 1. The Court in that judgment vide paragraphs 724 referred to the analysis done by the Supreme Court in the case of N.G. Dastane v. S. Dastane , (1975) 2 SCC 326 and then also observed vide paragraph 725 regarding the principle of preponderance of probability upon the subject matter involved in the case. Paragraph 724 and 725 of the judgment are reproduced hereunder: (emphasis added) 725. The Court recognised that within the standard of preponderance of probabilities, the degree of probability is based on the subject-matter involved." 316. As I have already referred to hereinabove the statement of Mr. Ashudani, the then Managing Director, U.P. Jal Nigam, an officer on special duty in Ministry of Urban Development, Mr. Asfaque Ahmad, four officers of M/s Aptech Ltd Mr. Roman Fernandes, Mr. Ajay Kumar Yadav and Mr. Neeraj Malik are very crucial to the controversy and so I proceed as per discussions already held above to summarize, what they have stated, as under: 317. Vide paragraph 20 of the affidavit of Mr. I.K. Srivastava the then Chief Engineer, Level - II (Establishment 2-1) the chart of Interview board of Assistant Engineers has been given. 318. In board No.- 1 in the first slot 27 candidates were put to interview. So also in the second slot 25 candidates were put in interview on 30th December, 2016. On 31st December, 2016 likewise 26 and 24 candidates were to be interviewed. 319. This figure has continued up to the board - 5. The board - 6 had only two shifts interview on 31st December, 2016 having 21 candidates and 18 candidates respectively on its board. 320. Now applying the average in terms of time and number, 25 candidates and 3 hours' time if were interviewed, it comes to 8 candidate in one hour's time. 321. Vide paragraph 21 it is stated in respect of Junior Engineers that each day there was one slot only for whole day and there were 10 boards constituted. Board No.- 1, for instance, had 73 candidates in a day and lastly on 24th December, 2016 it had only 64 candidates. Similar was the number almost in all other boards each day. Now considering the 75 candidates each day for the interview scheduled to be held from 10:30 am to 5:30 pm and in some cases 10:00 am to 5:00 pm (as per the statements made by two different members of different boards) so approximately 15 candidates in 60 minutes if absentees are also included. 322. Again vide paragraph 22 the details of the interview board and the candidates had been given in respect of the Routine Grade Clerk. Each day only there was one shift for whole of the day. Board No.-1, for instance, had 41 candidates to be interviewed on 30th November, 2016 and on third day on 2nd December, 2016 it had 30 candidates on board to be interviewed. Similar is the case with the last board that is the 6th board having 40 and 30 candidates to be interviewed. Now drawing the average of 40 candidates if interviewed in five hours, time spent comes to 60 minutes for 8 candidates and again when absentees are not excluded. 323. This above is the pure statistics base on law of average. It does not exclude the candidates who did not turn up to participate in the interview and, therefore, the findings by the SIT based on the statistics it had drawn to conclude what only 4-5 minutes were given to a candidate does not appeal to reason and rather is found to be perverse as against the records. 324. These findings arrived at by SIT regarding selection process having been compromised on the basis of the reports obtained from the IITs are also not sustainable in view that I have already held about the maintainability of those four reports. 325. Findings arrived by SIT that since original data was deleted from the cloud server therefore, verification could not be done about the correctness of the data provided in the CD to the experts of the institute of technology, is also not sustainable for the reason that the Court has already held the opinion obtained from the reports from the IIT, Kanpur was not within the legal frame work. 326. From the perusal of the entire report of the SIT, I have found that the Special Investigation Team has broadly discussed the doubtful questions and doubtful answers in its report on the basis of challenges made to the questions and answers by the different candidates after the master answer key and response sheet were published. The Special Investigation Team has arrived at this conclusion that this was the duty of the M/s Aptech Ltd. to prepare the questions papers as well as to provide the answers in the master answer key for its final verification. After the response sheets were published, the challenges that were laid to various questions and answers and the revised result that was prepared by M/s Aptech Ltd was sufficient to demonstrate that the agency failed to perform its duty properly and as a matter of fact these wrong questions and wrong answers resulted in calling for undeserving candidates for interview and placing them in the select list. This according to SIT was also a result of conspiracy that was hatched by the then senior Minister who happened to be the Chairman of the corporation in connivance with officials in the upper echelons of the corporation and with those of M/s Aptech Ltd. 327. This above finding merely on the basis of the revised result cannot be sustained for the simple reason that only a very few number of questions and answers were found to be doubtful. It is true that the result came to be revised and, therefore, candidates stood identified who in fact should not have been called for interview and yet were called but this is nothing exceptional. In any examination which is a competitive in nature in which the papers are prepared on the format of multiple choice questions, some questions and some answers are bound to fall in doubtful category. This is also apparent from the report submitted by the service provider agency in which 19 answers in respect of certain questions were still doubtful as two experts had given two different options to be the correct answers of same questions. 328. The total questions that were asked in the four papers with 80 questions each for the CBT held in respect of the Assistant Engineer were 320. The questions that were finally determined as incorrect were 7 and so 20 wrong answers were determined. Meaning thereby a doubtful or incorrect questions answers in total were 27 in number. Now taking the average out of 320 it comes to eight percent (8%). 329. So also in the case of Junior Engineers total 400 questions were there in 5 papers consisting 80 questions in each paper and only 6 wrong questions were found by the experts and so the 18 wrong answers. So there were in all 24 doubtful questions and answers out of 400 and it comes to six percent (6%). 330. So also in the case of Routine Grade Clerks total 480 questions were there in 6 papers consisting 80 questions in each paper and only 7 wrong answers were found. This also totals to 7 out of the 480 which comes to one point four percent (1.4%). 331. Thus, there is only a very miniscule percentage or number of doubtful questions and doubtful answers and this cannot be said to be sufficient ground itself to hold that the entire selection process insofar as conduct of CBT is concerned was compromised. 332. Still further, M/s Aptech Ltd. has taken its clear stand taken before the Court that the agency itself outsourced preparation of questions to a third party/ persons who are experts in their field and, therefore, M/s Aptech Ltd. did not have expertise to evaluate the questions and answers for every questions asked and answers given by the said experts and it is all further put to test by way of notification for the experts of the concerned subject when the challenges are made. Therefore, to come to the conclusion and hold that there was a conspiracy by the Minister concerned and the M/s Aptech Ltd. was a part of it in preparing question papers and answers to benefit poorer candidates does not appeal to reason in the given facts and circumstances of the case. 333. Applying principle of criminal law as to be admissibility of report as evidence, in my considered view, such police report is absolutely inadmissible. This report is only for the purposes of a court of law to take cognizance of the matter to conduct trial and it is yet to be proved in trial whether findings arrived in the SIT report are worth merit or not. Police reports submitted under Section 173(2) Code of Criminal Procedure are mere collective opinion of police officers conducting investigation and are just placed for the Court to hold trial. Such opinions by themselves are not conclusive and prosecutive whereas have to prove the charge by entering the witness box. If such reports are taken as conclusive proof of this charge even for administrative purpose then it will run against all norms of law in the matter of charge and its proof. Such police reports are not substantive piece of evidence ( Rajesh Yadav v. State of U.P. (2022) 12 SCC 200). 334. During the discussion above in this judgment qua statements of persons interrogated by SIT, I find that none of the statements corroborates the findings that have been arrived at by the SIT in its final conclusion. It appears that SIT after perusing the entire records proceeded to assume that selection process got compromised and there was a conspiracy hatched by the then Minister in connivance with the officer at higher echelons of U.P. Jal Nigam. It is still not clear as to how SIT has come to form this view. If SIT has relied upon the report of CFSL, then it clearly clarifies and identifies only 169 persons who have been shown with inflated marks and were given opportunity to walk in for interview. Besides those 169 candidates, there is no doubt express in the CFSL report regarding marks allotted to any other candidate, nor CFSL report doubts in any manner preparation of result of CBT. 335. It is also interesting to notice that in the SIT report there is no discussion regarding conduct of the CBT. The entire interrogation has centred around the marks obtained by 169 candidates named in the list of CFSL were inflated and that the selection by agency was not done properly to conduct CBT and also cancellation of the result of Stenographers by executive fiat of the Chairman was a biased decision. The entire conduct of Chairman of the U.P. Jal Nigam has been doubted and finding has been arrived that not only conduct of the agency was questionable, but even selection process itself was entirely a result of conspiracy and fraud. 336. It is also worth interesting to notice here that at no point of time prior to the objections being invited by publishing the master answer key, there was any challenge to the CBT held by the Aptech Ltd. As a matter of fact, all this controversy arose after challenges were made as to the correctness of certain questions and certain answers and certain writ petitions came to be filed setting up the claim by the respective petitioners of those petitions. It was ultimately when in-house enquiries were held by two Chief Engineers of the U.P. Jal Nigam, it all raised controversy regarding sanction of posts, exercise of discretion by Chairman of U.P. Jal Ngam and preparation of select list and manipulation of results etc. Although, I have considered the statements recorded by the Special Investigation Team, as it carried out interrogation with various persons and also examined certain records on the principle of preponderance of probability at least to find out whether the findings arrived at by SIT worth reliance or not, as conclusion has been arrived at by the authority under the orders impugned relying upon the same, but I must observe here that interrogation by the police and statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. are absolutely in admissible in law. The statements that are recorded by the police after carrying out interrogation with various persons during investigation is required to be corroborated by testimonies of prosecution witnesses during trial. It is only investigating agencies prima facie view that sufficient evidence has been collected so as to make out a charge for particular offence committed but this by itself cannot be conclusive admissible report in law to place absolute reliance thereupon. 337. I find merit in submission of Mr. Khare that SIT report being a plane sample report filed under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. it has no evidenciary value. I have already discussed the report of SIT in detail and have found that none of the persons who were interrogated and who were the responsible officials of M/s. Aptech Limited as well as the officers of U.P. Jal Nigam gave any statement to the effect that selection process was in any manner conducted with gross irregularity or illegality. They have not even accepted that selection was compromised, though questions were put to them as to the alleged was grossly committed by M/s. Aptech Limited of the contract entered with the Corporation while conducting the selection. All that they had stated was not publishing the master answer key before CBT result but there is no whisper about the conduct of the CBT being vitiated or any irregularity or illegality on the part of M/s. Aptech Limited. Therefore, merely because the SIT have arrived at some findings which will not be admissible at this stage even in law and decisions to conclude that the entire selection process was vitiated for gross illegality and irregularity committed at the end of agency conducting the CBT proceeding is, therefore, unjustified and hence unsustainable. 338. Thus in view of the above question No. (v) stands answered in negative and question No. (vi) stands answered in affirmative. Findings as to sustainability of orders impugned 339. Now it becomes necessary here to discuss the orders impugned in the different writ petitions in respect of the three categories of selectees and appointees. The impugned orders that are passed, are of the same data i.e 2nd March, 2020 and are verbatim same, the reasons assigned are also same and they discuss the same very reports. The findings that have been arrived in the orders impugned so as to annul the selection and appointments of the candidates in different above categories can be summarized as under: 340. In the total circumspect of the events that have taken place and the statements and materials as discussed in the SIT report, there appears to be a serious question raised about the powers of the Chairman of the Board to exercise certain discretion which lay with the Board itself and further the committee that was constituted to carry out the selection process had not met and it was done single handedly. I may observe here that this Court is bound by the earlier judgment of the Division Bench dated 28.11.2017 and two subsequent judgments of the Supreme Court affirming the Division Bench judgments of the High Court dated 16.03.2018 and 15.11.2018. Supreme Court noted that the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court had set aside the impugned order earlier passed by the authority cancelling the selection and appointment on the ground that principles of natural justice were not complied with and that no effort sincere enough, was made by the corporation to segregate tainted from untainted candidates and this view of the Division bench came to be affirmed with observation made by the Supreme Court in its final order dated 15.11.2018 that the appellant corporate must in the first place comply with directions of the Division Bench issued under its judgment and order dated 28.11.2017 and it is in that process the appellants may take into consideration the previous enquiry reports and all other relevant materials and documents which may be available to them in order to find possibilities of segregation of tainted from untainted candidates. 341. Thus, those questions qua exercise of power by the Chairman of the Board, question of availability of vacancy, issue regarding sanction/ permission from the state government to carry out recruitment drive etc. were no more available for the respondent Corporation to look into. The corporation was only to find out whether there was a systemic fraud committed in the process of selection so as to hold that the entire selection process stood compromised and, therefore, the selections had to go and so also the consequential appointments and so there remained no scope of identifying and isolating tainted candidates and giving them show cause notices individually. 342. Upon reading various paragraphs quoted above in this judgment of various authorities/ rulings cited on behalf of the rival parties, a principle of law emerges out qua which there is not dispute that an administrative action can be interfered with if the decision is irrational, illegal or arbitrary. A decision would be irrational, if it is not based upon any cogent material to support the decision taken. It will be illegal, if it has not gone into the question required to be addressed taking into consideration all the aspects that are required to meet the requisites of arriving at a conclusion and thirdly in the event of procedural impropriety. 343. In order to test, if upon any of these basic principles the decisions in question can be upheld, the principles of Wednsebury Law of Reasonableness becomes a good testing anvil. The Wednsebury Unreasonableness is what a reasonable man would have ordinarily arrived at a conclusion given the facts and circumstances involved in a particular case, but the authority arrived at different conclusion. The question, therefore, would arise in the present case as to whether the decision taken by the authority was illegal or irrational or procedural impropriety was committed. 344. I have already discussed various reports and have held that as far as the reports of experts of IITs is concerned that was not within the legal frame work. With the enforcement of Information Technology Act, 2000 it is clear that every electronic evidence, if is to be led, is to be examined and tested by experts of forensic field and that too by those experts who are having the expertise and have received accredition of an appropriate government. The Act requires the appropriate government to notify such agencies. Two of the agencies have already been authorized as have been placed before the court by the learned counsel appearing for M/s. Aptech Limited namely CERT-In and HTQC. The Act, 2000 and Rules framed thereunder very clearly provide detailed procedure and with the advancement of technology and their use it becomes necessary that the electronic evidence is examined thoroughly by the experts of the field only. It is not clear what method was adopted by the Associate Professors of Institutes of Technology in conducting forensic examination of the evidence in the form of CDs provided by the Corporation whereas four times the reports were called for by the SIT from the CFSL which is a government agency of the Ministry of Home Affairs. It is a settled law that when a thing is required to be done that should be done in that manner alone, ( 2015) 11 SCC 628, Tata Chemicals Limited v. Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Jamnagar . 345. In the circumstances, therefore, I have already held that the expert opinions that were sought from the Associate Professors of Institutes of Technology were neither the experts recognized under the Information and Technology Act, 2000 , nor these opinions could have been termed to be admissible within the legal framework as prescribed for under the Act, 2000 besides the fact that opinions were not conclusive. In the circumstances, therefore, any finding arrived at by the authority on the basis of these reports are bound to be held irrational. It is equally important to notice here that in the earlier part of this judgment these reports itself are found not conclusive because the experts have opined on the basis of material provided to it by the Corporation. It is admitted position of fact that the Corporation did not give any access to the hard disks seized from the office of local environment of M/s. Aptech Limited for seeking opinion of these experts of Institutes of Technology, nor did it provide DVDs with data issued by the CFSL. It was well within the prerogative of the Aptech Ltd that whatever data will be provided to a party/ person (Corporation) would be a copied data (vide clause 12-c (iii) of data retention policy). Further, all intellectual property rights with respect to the services and the Aptech Ltd propriety material etc. was to belong to that agency (vide clause Propriety Rights under the contract with U.P. Jal Nigam) so unless and until access to original data was given by U.P. Jal Nigam to the experts of IIT, Kanpur and IIIT, Allahabad, no definite opinion could have been given on the basis of the copied data. In the circumstances therefore, the decision arrived at on the basis of opinion of experts is clearly unsustainable. 346. I must add here that initially at the very beginning and subsequently upon argument being advanced by Mr. Ojha for examination of archival data of M/s. Aptech Limited saved in its office at NOIDA place both Mr. Goyal questioned the retention of data beyond one year being grant agreement/ written contract and refused it to be trust worthy to be put to forensic examination any further. Mr. Khare and Mr. Mishra also disagreed to this suggestion. 347. I do not find in the entire order impugned in these petitions there to be any discussion by the authority over and above findings reached out in the SIT report. It is true that in a decision making process authority was required to consider and discuss reports so as to draw a conclusion, but the authority is equally required to consider as to whether conclusion drawn in the reports was tenable or not. 348. I have already discussed in detail those findings of the SIT which have been relied upon by the Corporation and have found it to be sans material indicative of deep rooted corrupt practice except for the CFSL report which had clearly identified 169 candidates to have been given inflated marks to facilitate their entry in to the interview board. 349. The argument therefore, advanced by Mr. Goyal relying upon the judgment of learned Single Judge of Madras High Court that there was a deep rooted conspiracy and fraud and it was all grounded in the system to be treated as systemic fraud which vitiated the selection process, also does not find favour in the given facts and circumstances of the case. There is no finding either by the SIT or the other two in-house inquiry reports which can be said to be indicative of this fact that any of the candidate was indulged in any corrupt practice or tried to influence the selectors to award him/ her special marks. This is also so clear from the statements of marks of interview board who had repeatedly stated to the police that nobody had approached them to give higher marks to a particular candidate. Therefore, I find merit in the submission of Mr. Mishra as referred to paragraph no. 89 of the judgment in R. Prem Lata (supra) that there was no sufficiency of material collected on the basis of which satisfaction came to be recorded, nor there was any material to be indicative of fact that any candidate in order to find favour committed any kind of fraud in connivance with or in conspiracy with the selectors. I have already answered above important question that CFSL reports findings finally identify tainted candidates to be segregated. The forensic report finding is clearly indicative of fact and that 169 candidates were awarded inflated marks and these very candidates found place in select list and resultantly were offered appointments. It is true that there may be situation where the nature of the irregularities may be manifold and the number of candidates involved is of such a magnitude that it is impossible to precisely delineate or segregate the tainted candidates from untainted [Sachin Kumar (supra)] but the court must ensure that allegations of malpractice is also substantiated and that the material on record, including investigation reports, point to the conclusion ( Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India and others , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1870) but the reports as discussed above including SIT report except for conclusion drawn do not indicate of any widespread and systemic level malpractice. Data surfaced out must be in respect of majority of candidates and must also count to abnormal score to establish a case of systemic breach. 350. In so far as judgment of Division Bench of this Court to which I was party being a member on Bench, relied upon by Mr. Goyal, is concerned the principle laid down was that service provider under the contract was to carry out selection as per the terms of contract and if it failed, it deserved blacklisting. Applying the test laid down in the said case, it cannot be ruled out that it was onerous task to be executed by the agency to ensure fair examination for selection. In the said case the manner in which examination was conducted as per the STF report, it found the agency to be responsible for serious irregularities that have been elaborated in paragraph 31 of the judgment. In the present case I have already found that till CBT was conducted and the CBT merit list was passed on to U.P. Jal Nigam initially with secure password and login Id, there was no issue. So it cannot be said that Aptech agency misdirected itself against the contract in conducting CBT. 351. What transpires from the reports is that at some level a deliberate act was committed either by the authorities of the Corporation or the officials of M/s Aptech Limited, who were to prepare the result and declare the same for the purposes of forming a select list. Candidates, who in fact had secured lesser marks and could not match the meritorious candidates and their marks with inflated report so as to place them in CBT select list to make them eligible for interview. The statement of officials of Aptech Mr. Vishwjeet becomes important here. Mr. Vishwajeet has very clearly stated, as discussed in the earlier part of this judgment, that after the results were prepared oral instructions were given by the officials of U.P. Jal Nigam to supply the select list. The select list prepared after processing the data on the basis of CBT result available in data base was supplied with secured password to the officials of U.P. Jal Nigam along with login ID. This access of processed result was provided to the authorities of U.P. Jal Nigam, who were in fact to hold interview of the selected candidates. After the password and login ID was given to the officials of U.P. Jal Nigam, a select list was returned to the Agency to publish. Mr. Vishwajeet has stated very clearly that this select list was also got published by the Aptech on the basis of which the interview was held. Even though there is statement given by one of the complainants Ram Sewak Shukla that there was a large scale bungling in the selection process but in his statement he has only made allegations and has failed to refer to any such incident as such or any statement of a particular person involved in the selection process, which may be said to be very cogent and convincing to hold that allegations to be true and correct to make out a proven case of fraud. This clearly shows that upto the stage of conclusion of CBT, no manipulation had taken place, nor any irregularity was committed, nor at least could be demonstrated by any one with conviction. Since no access was given to the assigned cloud server of Ctrl S, nothing could be done to affect the data base. It, therefore, appears, to have taken place only after CBT result was prepared and access of processed data was provided to the officials of the Corporation that certain manipulations took place in result and this is apparent from the CFSL report. This shows, therefore, that some favours were shown to some candidates by the officials of the Corporation may be in league with the M/s Aptech Limited but the question arises as to whether this very act of giving inflated marks, can be said to have amounted to such a deep rooted fraud or conspiracy that would justify the annulment of entire selection. The Courts have held, as authorities are already referred to and cited by the learned Advocates appearing for the respective parties, that just for a few candidates, who have found favour at the hand of officials of the agencies, this should not prejudice the candidates, who have marched to the select list and were ultimately given appointments on the basis of their untainted merit. The CFSL report having not been questioned anywhere and as I have already held that Central Forensic Laboratory Hyderabad was the competent Government Agency in the matter to conduct forensic examination of the hard disks and the fact that CFSL report itself does not disclose that any modification of the original data had taken place or that the data was missing, it is thus clear that those candidates, who were given inflated marks and were 169 in number were the tainted candidates. This report is a sufficient evidence itself available on record to identify the tainted candidates and, therefore, findings arrived at to the contrary in the order impugned cannot be sustained in law. 352. The doctrine of impossibility as argued by Mr. Goyal would not attract in the present case for the simple reason that once 169 candidates were found to be only candidates with inflated marks during the forensic examination by the established and recognized Central Forensic Laboratory, Hyderabad, there remains nothing further to undertake any enquiry for segregation of tainted and untainted candidates. 353. In the absence of any direct evidence to prove a case of systemic fraud, the concerned authority has relied upon circumstantial evidence drawn on the basis of certain candidates for being favoured in matters of selection and appointments and it, therefore, in such circumstances has considered it to be a judicious decision to cancel the entire selection and more so in the name of restoring public trust and confidence in the system. The plea taken is that Article 14 of the Constitution mandates absolute transparency and sanctity in the matter of open selection for public employment. The courts, in my considered view are required to be more conscious in evaluating considerations that would have weighed such decisions to protect innocent and meritorious candidates so that all candidates are not tarred with same brush. In matters of competitive examination where a large number of candidates participates, the endeavour should be to protect the honest and meritorious candidates who have found place in merit list out of their sheer hard work and labour and this is also necessary to maintain trust and faith in the adjudicatory function of constitutional law Courts. 354. In view of the above and considering the point in the light of judgment in the case of State of NCT of Delhi and another vs. Sanjeev @ Bittu (supra) about misreading of evidence or there being no evidence at all, in my considered view from the entire material discussed in the judgment it can be concluded that the order impugned completely misjudged and misconstrued them so as to annul the entire selection and appointments in the name of inspiring confidence of people in the system. Thus, orders impugned in these petitions dated 02.03.202020 in respect of AE, JE and RGC deserve to be held unsustainable in law. 355. Now the question arises whether these above tainted candidates, if were issued with appointment orders deserved prior notice and ultimately relief, if any, may be granted to the untainted candidates in the given facts and circumstances of the case and in the light of law discussed by Division Bench of this Court on 28.11.2017 and the last judgment of Supreme Court on 15.11.2018. 356. The question of relief to such above candidates arises if their case survives. Original CBT marks, it maintained, they would not have reached to the stage of interview even. I have already arrived at this conclusion that segregation of tainted and untainted candidates was possible and this is so apparent on the face of record. This litigation has continued for a very long period of time and so, I consider it appropriate to give a quietus to the controversy in the light of various authorities of Supreme Court. 357. 363 candidates are before this Court in respect of post of Junior Engineers in various writ petitions, 56 candidates are relating to the post of Assistant Engineers and 20 candidates are in respect of Routine Grade Clerks. 358. Following are the names with their roll numbers present in the computer list as per CFSL report with inflated marks of the candidates in the category of Assistant Engineer, Junior Engineer and Routine Grade Clerk, who are petitioners in different writ petitions. JUNIOR ENGINEER
 
NO. ROLL NO. PETITIONER NAME
 
FATHER'S NAME
 
SR. NO IN SIT REPORT
 
CBT PRESENT IN COMPUTER DATABASE
 
CBT PRESENT IN THE LIST OF SELECTED/SHORTLISTED DOCUMENTS 
 
INTERVIEW
 
WP 1.
 
1109052445
 
JITESH KUMAR
 
NARVED SINGH 32 21 67 12 4531/2020 2.
 
1109053867
 
SATISH GUPTA
 
PHOOL CHANDRA GUPTA 40 22 67 11.75
 
4531/2020 3.
 
1201006037
 
VIVEK SINGH
 
MAHESH SINGH 28 44 62 17.25
 
5912/2020 4.
 
1206035158
 
SACHIN KUMAR
 
PRATAP SINGH 11 30 69 12 4631/2020 5.
 
1202008787
 
AJAY SINGH
 
MAHENDRA SINGH 4 24 69 15.50
 
10075/2020 6.
 
1112074197
 
AJEET KUMAR RAJAK
 
BHULAN RAJAK 18 0 62 18 10075/2020 7.
 
1208038917
 
MUKESH KUMAR
 
RAMRAJ SAROJ 44 33 61 17.75
 
10075/2020 8.
 
2207038460
 
RAHUL KUMAR(JE E/M)
 
RAMA SHANKAR TRIPATHI 10 25 62 17.50
 
10075/2020 9.
 
2209049895
 
ASHUTOSH KUMAR SINGH(JE E/M)
 
GYANENDRA SINGH 16 46 61 18 10075/2020 10.
 
1312072774
 
ASHOK KUMAR(JE E/M)
 
GOVARDHAN PATEL 11 34 68 11.25
 
7150/2020 11.
 
1102008640
 
AANAND GUPTA
 
ASHOK KUMAR GUPTA 2 35 69 16.75
 
7150/2020 12.
 
1208046058
 
VISHAL TIWARI
 
RAMESHWAR TIWARI 5 27 69 15.25
 
7150/2020 13.
 
2209051483
 
SANJAY SINGH(JE E/M)
 
RAM SHABD YADAV 7 30 68 11.75
 
7474/2020 14.
 
1109053786
 
SANDEEP KUMAR PATEL
 
RANJEET CHAUDHARY 21 25 69 10.50
 
7474/2020 15.
 
1105027213
 
SANJAY CHAUDHARY
 
RAM CHANDRA CHAUDHARY 26 38 69 10.25
 
9333/2020 16.
 
1308042613
 
SHABAB HAIDAR(JE E/M)
 
ZWFEQUAR HAIDAR 6 49 62 18 9333/2020 17.
 
1109048117
 
ARJUN KUMAR
 
RAM DAYAL 57 36 64 12.12
 
9333/2020 18.
 
2105029492
 
SESHMANI NISHAD(JE E/M)
 
BAGIRATHI NISHAD 1 29 68 15 9333/2020 19.
 
1209052147
 
FAIYAJ AHMAD
 
NIYAZ AHMAD 1 26 69 17.25
 
9333/2020 20.
 
1205027869
 
MOHAMMAD AMEEN
 
LATE NAYEEM AHMAD 15 31 62 18 9333/2020
 

 
ASSISTANT ENGINEER
 
NO. ROLL NO. PETITIONER NAME
 
FATHER'S NAME
 
SR. NO IN SIT REPORT
 
CBT PRESENT IN COMPUTER DATABASE
 
CBT PRESENT IN THE LIST OF SELECTED/SHORTLISTED DOCUMENTS 
 
INTER-VIEW
 
WP 1.
 
1208217059
 
AYUSHMAN SRIVASTAVA 
 
VIJAY KUMAR LAL 4 28 60 18.9
 
10440/2021 2.
 
1109221405
 
ZUBZIR KHAN 
 
NIZAMUDDIN KHAN 19 31 60 17 10440/2021 3.
 
1208219088
 
KRISHNA KUMAR KHARE
 
L.N. KHARE 18 29 60 17 10440/2021 4.
 
1108220303
 
AMIR AKHTAR
 
ASIF AKHTAR 24 35 60 16.8
 
10440/2021 5.
 
1107214878
 
VIVEK SINGH
 
RAM NAYAK SINGH 17 32 60 17.2
 
10440/2021 6.
 
1112230788
 
ANKUT KUMAR YADAV
 
INDRA BHOSHAN YADAV 30 39 63 12.4
 
10440/2001 7.
 
1208221029
 
SYED SHUJA ABBAS RIZVI
 
SYED ABBAS RAZA RIZVI 1 24 64 17.4
 
10440/2021 8.
 
1208219062
 
KAMRAN AHMAD KHAN
 
ANWAR AHMAD KHAN 3 35 63 17 10440/2021 9.
 
1202204259
 
SYED AMIR JAMAL
 
SYED JAVED JAMAL 16 23 60 17.2
 
10440/2020 10.
 
1107214391
 
SAMAR ALI
 
SHAKIR ALI 22 27 60 17 10440/2021 11.
 
1204206879
 
HUSAIN HUZUR
 
SYED MOHAMMAD HUZUR 10 40 60 17.2
 
10440/2021 12.
 
1208219158
 
SAMRAH AHMAD (AE E/M)
 
SIRAJ AHMAD 4 31 58 16.6
 
7076/2021 13.
 
1208218385
 
ASIF KHAN 
 
MOHD. SHAMIM 7 24 60 18 17507/2022 14.
 
1202203062
 
FAISAL SALAMAT 
 
SALAMAT UL SIDDIQUI 13 42 60 17.2
 
17507/2022 15.
 
1208215755
 
MOHD. FAHAD ANSARI
 
MOHD. ASLAM 25 37 60 16.8
 
17507/2022 16.
 
1202203416
 
MOHD. SHARIQ SHAHAB
 
MOHD. KHALID SHAHAB 12 27 60 17.2
 
17507/2022 17.
 
1111227548
 
HARSH SATENDRA SINGH
 
SATENDRA SINGH 15 29 60 17.2
 
17507/2022 18.
 
1204208520
 
SYED MOHAMMAD JAWAD
 
MOHD. IDRIS 20 37 60 17 17507/2022 19.
 
1110222665
 
LALIT KUMAR YADAV (AE CS/EC/EE)
 
OM PRAKASH YADAV 2 29 58 18 12010/2020 20.
 
1110229472
 
MOHD. YASAR KHAN (AE CS/EC/EE)
 
MAHFOOZ RAHMAN KHAN 1 41 58 18 12010/2020 21.
 
1210224533
 
KAILASH VISHWAKARMA(AE E/M)
 
CHEDILAL VISHWAKARMA 3 38 58 16.6
 
12010/2020 22.
 
1210224540
 
MOHD. SHAMS (AE E/M)
 
KURSHEED ANWAR 1 39 58 18 12010/2020 23.
 
1108216025
 
RAJESH KUMAR (AE CS/EC/EE)
 
RAMUGRAH 3 26 55 17 8936/2021 24.
 
1208218340
 
ASHISH PRATAP SINGH
 
JITENDRA BAHADUR SINGH 8 48 60 17.9
 
12501/2021 25.
 
1208218664
 
DILSHAD KHAN
 
IRSHAD KHAN 2 31 63 17 12501/2021 26.
 
1106212023
 
DHIRENDRA KUMAR PRAJAPATI
 
JITENDRA KUMAR PRAJAPATI 27 26 60 16.4
 
12501/2021
 

 
ROUTINE GRADE CLERK
 
NO. ROLL NO. PETITIONER NAME
 
FATHER'S NAME
 
SR. NO IN SIT REPORT
 
CBT PRESENT IN COMPUTER DATABASE
 
CBT PRESENT IN THE LIST OF SELECTED/SHORTLISTED DOCUMENTS 
 
INTER-VIEW
 
WP 1.
 
7201163257
 
SARFARAZ KHAN
 
PARVEZ AHMAD KHAN 39 32 75 20 4453/2020 2.
 
5201191273
 
MAYANK RAJPUT
 
MAHENDRA PRATAP SINGH RAJP-UT 8 59 69 20.4
 
4453/2020 3.
 
7101250843
 
FAIZ SALAMAT
 
 SALAMAT ULLAH SIDDDIQUI 43 59 66 19.4
 
7952/2022 4.
 
7201126171
 
MOHD. SADIQ KHAN
 
MOHD. SHAMIM 37 38 75 20.2
 
7952/2022 359. It is an admitted position of fact that these candidates had been originally awarded marks that were lesser to what they were given for the purposes of interview while select list was being prepared with the involvement of officials of the Corporation and it is clear from the comparative study by CFSL with their original marks retrieved from the data base of hard disks that was seized by the police from the local environment Office of M/S Aptech Limited, Mumbai. 360. The report, therefore, makes it clear that marks of 169 candidates were enhanced or rather inflated to their advantage only. It is a case of fraud committed by the selectors, for some extraneous considerations and the beneficiaries cannot be permitted to take advantage of fraud only on the plea of non compliance of principles of natural justice. The law on the point is well settled in a number of authorities of Supreme Court and High Courts. 361. To begin with, in the case of Ram Chandra Singh vs. Savitri Devi and others ; (2003) 8 SCC 319, the Court held that fraud vitiates every solemn act and fraud and justice never dwell together. It is relevant here to refer to paragraphs-15, 16, 17 and 18 of the judgment, which run as under:- 362. The Court also refer to judgment of Calcutta High Court in the case of Chittranjan Das vs. Durgapore Project Limited : 1995 (2) Calcutta Law Journal 338, wherein it was held that even the principles of natural justice are not required to be complied with in such cases. Paragraph-29 of the said judgment is reproduced hereunder:- 363. In the case of State of Chhatisgarh vs. Dhirojo Kumar Sengar ; (2009) 13 SCC 600, the Court held that commission of fraud once proved, principles of natural justice were not required to be complied. Vide paragraphs-17, 18 and 19, the Court held thus:- (Emphasis supplied) 18. Legality of grant of a valid appointment was dependant upon the proof that the respondent was the adopted son of Chittaranjan Singh Sengar. He not only failed to do so, the materials brought on record by the parties would clearly suggest otherwise. His application for grant of appointment on compassionate ground was rejected by the Joint Director of Education. He did not question the legality or validity thereof. He, it can safely be said, by suppressing the said fact obtained the offer of appointment from an authority which was lower in rank than the Joint Director, viz., the Deputy Director. When such a fact was brought to the notice of the Deputy Director that the offer of appointment had been obtained as a result of fraud practiced on the Department, he could, in our opinion, cancel the same. 19. Respondent keeping in view the constitutional scheme has not only committed a fraud on the Department but also committed a fraud on the Constitution. As commission of fraud by him has categorically been proved, in our opinion, the principles of natural justice were not required to be complied with." 364. This view was further reiterated in the case of Ganpati Bhai Mahiji Bhai Solanki vs. State of Gujrat and others; (2008) 12 SCC 353. Again in the case of Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) vs. M/s Aafloat Textiles (I) Pvt. Ltd. and others in Civil Appeal No. 2447 of 2007 decided on 16th February, 2009 it has been held that if somebody secures unfair advantage upon a deliberate act of deception then it is a gain for another's loss and it amounts to deliberate cheating intended, to get advantage. Vide paragraphs-12 and 17, the Court held thus:- 17. In Lazarus Estate Ltd. v. Beasley (1956) 1 QB 702, Lord Denning observed at pages 712 & 713, "No judgment of a Court, no order of a Minister can be allowed to stand if it has been obtained by fraud. Fraud unravels everything." In the same judgment Lord Parker LJ observed that fraud vitiates all transactions known to the law of however high a degree of solemnity. (page 722)" Order Date :- 4.10.2024
 
Atmesh/ Sanjeev/ IrfanUddin