(PER : HONOURABLE MS.JUSTICE HARSHA DEVANI) 1. This petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the
Constitution of India is directed against the order dated
30.6.2017 passed by the Debts Recovery Appellate Tribunal at
Mumbai in Appeal No.344 of 2006 as well as against the order
dated 29.5.2006 passed by the Debts Recovery Tribunal at
Ahmedabad in O.A. No.124 of 1995. 2. The facts, as averred in the petition, are that the
petitioner Bank of America is a banking company incorporated
under the relevant laws of U.S.A. and carries on the business of
banking. The second respondent M/s. Gujarat Indo Lube
Limited came out with a public issue of shares which got
oversubscribed, that is, the number of shares applied for was
more than the total number of shares issued. Therefore, the
second respondent was required to refund the un-allotted
share application money to various applicants. In this regard,
the petitioner Bank appointed the first respondent Bank of
Baroda as its refund banker and a refund account was opened
with the petitioner. As per the process, the Bank of Baroda was
to issue refund warrants with a validity period to the
unsuccessful applicants of the public issue and the petitioner
was to honour the said warrants within its validity period.
Thereafter, the petitioner was to reconcile the accounts and
return the balance amount lying in the refund account to the
second respondent company. C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT 3. To extend the facilities of refund to small cities and
centres, the petitioner availed the services of the first
respondent bank as it had a wide presence across the country.
It, therefore, entered into an arrangement with the first
respondent under which the petitioner appointed the first
respondent as a correspondent bank. The arrangement was
that the refund warrants issued by the second respondent
were to be honoured by the first respondent on its
presentment thereof. Accordingly, the refund warrants were
stated to be payable at par across the branches of the first
respondent. The aforesaid arrangement was recorded in a
letter dated 9.4.1992 of the petitioner and the same was
communicated to the first respondent. The relevant terms of
the said letter are contained in clauses (iv) and (v) which reads
thus:- 4. It is the case of the petitioner that the aforesaid
arrangement was confirmed by the first respondent vide letter
dated 6.5.1992 and thus, the clear understanding was that the
arrangement would cease to exist after 45 days of the expiry
of the payment instruments/warrants and in case any refund
warrants are received by the first respondent after the 45th
day, the same shall be presented to the petitioner for obtaining
payment from the second respondent on collection basis only. C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

It was further agreed that after closure of the account, the first
respondent was not to accept any refund warrant presented to
it for payment. It is the case of the petitioner that in terms of
the arrangement, after the 45th day of expiry of the validity of
the refund warrants, the petitioner was not under any
contractual obligation to make reimbursement to the first
respondent. 5. It is further the case of the petitioner Bank that the
validity of the period of the refund warrants expired on
4.8.1992 and after 45 days of expiry of the validity of the
refund warrants, in terms of the contract between the
petitioner and the first respondent, the first respondent closed
the refund account and the balance amount lying in the refund
account was returned to the petitioner, thus bringing an end to
the contract. The first respondent fully reimbursed itself in
respect of the refund warrants before transferring the amount
to the petitioner. Vide letter dated 26.11.1992, the petitioner
recorded the closure of the account which was followed by a
letter dated 21.1.1993, wherein it was categorically informed
to the first respondent that for all future claims, the first
respondent may claim reimbursement directly from the second
respondent company. 6. The aforesaid communication dated 21.1.1993 of the
petitioner was acknowledged by the first respondent vide its
letter dated 25.1.1993. The first respondent also requested for
providing complete address of the second respondent and
categorically stated that they would obtain reimbursement for
delayed claims directly from the second respondent.
Thereafter, by a letter dated 30.1.1993, the petitioner provided Page 4 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

the address in terms of the request to the first respondent. 7. It appears that certain delayed claims were received by
the first respondent, and by letter dated 13.2.1993, a fresh
request was made by it to the petitioner to handle these
delayed claims on collection basis. Thereafter, by its letter
dated 5.8.1993 the first respondent acknowledged the
assistance provided by the petitioner for delayed claims, and
categorically stated that they will revert directly to the second
respondent company for further claims. By a letter dated
8.2.1994, the first respondent informed the petitioner about
their independent interactions with the second respondent and
requested to provide photocopies of warrants paid after the
closure date to enable the first respondent to take up the
matter with the second respondent for early settlement.
Thereafter, the first respondent started communicating directly
with the second respondent company. Since the second
respondent company had not paid the amounts to the first
respondent, the first respondent issued a demand notice dated
18.2.1995 through its advocate to the petitioner and claimed
an amount of Rs.98,68,385/- which, according to the petitioner,
was otherwise the liability of the second respondent company.
The said notice was duly replied by the petitioner. It is further
the case of the petitioner that out of sheer good faith and with
an intention to help the first respondent, the petitioner at the
request of the first respondent, addressed a letter dated
30.8.1995 to the second respondent, inter-alia, urging the
second respondent to refund and/or reimburse the claim of the
first respondent without further delay. 8. In or about 1995, the first respondent Bank of Baroda Page 5 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

filed an original application before the Debts Recovery
Tribunal, Ahmedabad being O.A. No.124 of 1995 against the
petitioner and the other respondents. By a judgment and order
dated 29.5.2006 the Debts Recovery Tribunal allowed the
original application and held the petitioner to be jointly and
severally liable to pay to the first respondent Bank of Baroda
an amount of Rs.1,42,52,381/- with simple interest at the rate
of 6% per annum from 16.10.1995 until realisation and ordered
that a recovery certificate be issued under section 19(22) of
the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions
Act, 1993 (hereinafter referred to as "the RDDB Act"). The
petitioner carried the matter in appeal before the Debts
Recovery Appellate Tribunal at Mumbai vide Appeal No.344 of
2006 which was dismissed by the impugned order dated
30.6.2017. Being aggrieved, the petitioner has filed the
present petition. 9. In this matter by an order dated 5.4.2018, interim relief
was granted in favour of the petitioner after hearing the
learned counsel for the respective parties. On 24.7.2018, the
learned counsel for the first respondent Bank prayed for time
to file affidavit-in-reply. Thereafter by an order dated
13.8.2018, further time was granted to file affidavit-in-reply;
despite which no affidavit has been filed on behalf of the first
respondent bank nor has any further time been sought for in
this regard. Therefore, it appears that the first respondent
Bank does not intend to file any affidavit-in-reply in response
to the averments made in the petition, and consequently, the
averments made in the memorandum of petition stand
uncontroverted. C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT 10. Mr. Ajay Monga, learned counsel for the petitioner, took
the court through the correspondence between the petitioner
Bank and the first respondent Bank of Baroda in detail to point
out the terms of agreement between the parties. The attention
of the court was invited to the original application filed by the
first respondent Bank of Baroda to point out that no cause of
action has been stated against the petitioner Bank and that all
the averments made in the application as regards liability to
pay the outstanding amount are against the second
respondent company and its Directors. It was submitted that it
is only in the relief paragraph that the petitioner is sought to
be made liable together with the respondents No.2 to 5 to pay
the outstanding amount with interest. It was submitted that in
the absence of any foundational facts having been stated in
the original application, no relief could have been claimed
against the petitioner Bank, inasmuch as, no case has been
made out against the petitioner in the averments made in the
memorandum of application. It was submitted that the Debts
Recovery Tribunal has merely placed reliance upon two letters
dated 9.4.1992 and 6.5.1992 and has based its conclusion
thereon while holding the petitioner to be liable to pay the
outstanding amount to the first respondent bank. However,
while doing so, the Debts Recovery Tribunal has failed to
consider the subsequent correspondences being letters dated
21.3.1993, 25.1.1993, 13.2.1993 and 5.8.1993. It was
submitted that both the Tribunals below have failed to
appreciate and analyse the factual matrix and evidence of the
matter and without application of mind have held the
petitioner to be jointly and severally liable to pay the
outstanding amount to the first respondent bank. It was
submitted that the petition deserves to be allowed by setting Page 7 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

aside the impugned orders passed by the Tribunals. 11. Opposing the petition, Mr. B. T. Rao, learned advocate for
the first respondent Bank of Baroda, emphatically argued that
the present petition is not a bona fide litigation. The attention
of the court was invited to the letter dated 9th April, 1992 of the
petitioner Bank of America wherein it has been stated that
"(iv) Within 45 days of the expiry of the payment instrument,
Bank of Baroda will close the account and remit the proceeds
to the Bank of America. All paid instruments along with a
listing will also be provided to Bank of America. By June 30,
1992, this would be reduced to 30 days. (v) Bank of Baroda
will not honour any instrument after 45 days of expiry of
validity." to submit that the same was in the nature of an offer.
It was further pointed out that in terms of clause (vi) of the
letter it was provided that "These arrangements will be paid
for a period of one year from April 10, 1992 and are in
supersession of all earlier arrangements". It was submitted
that this letter was in the nature of an offer of the petitioner
Bank of America and that in response thereto, the first
respondent Bank of Baroda had addressed a letter dated
6.5.1992 wherein it has put a condition that in case
instruments are received by Bank of Baroda branches after 45
days, the same may be presented to Bank of America who may
obtain payment from the company and reimburse the Bank of
Baroda. It was pointed out that the terms of arrangement
mentioned in the said letter were inclusive of those conveyed
by the petitioner in the letter dated 9.4.1992. It was submitted
that the additional condition inserted by the Bank of Baroda
was duly accepted by the petitioner and in view of condition (vi) of the letter dated 9.4.1992, the petitioner was liable to Page 8 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

pay the amount for a period of one year from 10th April 1992.
It was submitted that it was, therefore, the duty of the
petitioner Bank to collect the funds from the second
respondent company and reimburse the Bank of Baroda to the
extent of the amount paid by it towards refund of the warrants. 11.1 Next it was submitted that the subsequent
correspondence between the first respondent Bank of Baroda
with the second respondent company does not amend the
contract which was accepted by the petitioner. It was
submitted that once the proposal given by the first respondent
bank was accepted by the petitioner it became a contract and
that the petitioner was duty bound to collect the amount from
the company and pay the same to Bank of Baroda within one
year from the date of the agreement. It was urged that the
petitioner Bank of America cannot taken advantage of any
subsequent action taken by the officers of the bank by issuing
letters and communicating directly with the second respondent
company, inasmuch as, it is duly bound by the conditions of
the contract to obtain payment from the company and
reimburse the Bank of Baroda. It was submitted that the
petitioner Bank of America is not absolved of its obligations
under the contract and that the first respondent Bank of
Baroda has no privity of contract with the company. 11.2 It was urged that the Debts Recovery Appellate
Tribunal as well as the Debts Recovery Tribunal have acted
within the four corners of law and that neither of the Tribunals
have exceeded their jurisdiction under section 19 of the RDDB
Act. It was pointed out that in the absence of any error of
jurisdiction on the part of the Tribunals; no case is made out Page 9 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

for exercise of powers under Articles 226 and 227 of the
Constitution of India to interfere with the impugned orders. It
was submitted that the Tribunal has rightly based its order on
the two letters dated 9.4.1992 and 6.5.1992 which form the
contract between the parties and that the subsequent letters
do not absolve the petitioner Bank of its responsibility and that
the claim of the first respondent Bank of Baroda against the
petitioner bank subsists for a period of one year from 10th April,
1992. Referring to the impugned order passed by the Debts
Recovery Tribunal, it was pointed out that the Tribunal has
given a specific finding holding the petitioner to be liable. It
was urged that there being no jurisdictional error on the part of
the Tribunals, this court may not interfere in exercise of
powers under Article 227 of the Constitution of India. 12. In rejoinder, Mr. Ajay Monga, learned counsel for the
petitioner invited the attention of the court to the
correspondence entered into between the petitioner and the
first respondent Bank of Baroda as well as the first respondent
Bank of Baroda and the second respondent company. It was
submitted that when the first respondent Bank of Baroda
entered into correspondence directly with the company, the
contract between the petitioner and the first respondent came
to an end. It was submitted that the claim made before the
Debts Recovery Tribunal against the petitioner is not in respect
of claims which were made within 45 days of the expiry of the
payment instrument as agreed between the parties, and
hence, there is no liability on the part of the petitioner Bank of
America to reimburse such amount to the first respondent
bank. It was submitted that after the contract expired there
was no privity between the petitioner and the first respondent; C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

moreover, in the original application no liability is sought to be
cast upon the petitioner and that relief has merely been
prayed for without any foundation being laid for grant of such
relief. It was, accordingly, urged that the petition deserves to
be allowed in terms of the relief prayed for therein. 13. In the backdrop of the facts and contentions noted
hereinabove, it may be germane to first refer to the contents
of the original application filed by the first respondent Bank of
Baroda. The original application has been made by the first
respondent Bank of Baroda against, in all, five respondents,
wherein the first respondent is the company viz. M/s. Gujarat
Indo Lube Limited and the respondents No.2 to 4 are its
Managing Director, Chairman and Director respectively,
whereas the petitioner Bank of America is the respondent
No.5. (a) In the cause-title, at item No.4 against the column
 of limitation, it is stated that the causes of action arose
 on 30.12.92 when the applicant arranged for the refund
 of amount through its various branches and thereafter
 arose on 26.4.94, 27.4.94, 3.6.94, 23.6.94, 17.8.94 and
 24.10.94 when the respondent No.1 gave assurances to
 the applicant for repaying the dues. In the first paragraph
 it is, inter-alia stated that the respondent No.1 is a public
 limited company and respondents No.2, 3 and 4 are the
 Managing Director, Chairman and Director of the
 company and are by virtue of section 72 read with section 5 of the Companies Act treated as officers in
 default for refund of the amount claimed in the petition.
 Respondent No.5 was acting as Principal Bankers to Page 11 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

 respondent No.1 and the said respondent had an
 arrangement with the applicant Bank regarding refund of
 share application money. (b) Paragraph (ii) relates to respondent No.1, wherein it
 is stated that in 1992 the respondent No.1 came out with
 a public issue of shares and invited subscriptions from
 the public and accordingly the share application forms
 and amounts were collected through various branches of
 the applicant bank being bankers to the issue along with
 Bank of America respondent No.5. (c)In paragraph (iii) it is stated that Bank of America was
 acting as principal bankers of respondent No.1. They had
 entered into an arrangement with the applicant bank
 under which refund orders of excess application amounts
 issued by respondent No.1 were made payable at par
 only at designated branches of the applicant bank. (d) In paragraph (iv) it is stated that under this
 arrangement which is finalised through the letters
 exchanged between the applicant Bank and Bank of
 America, Bank of America will provide 50% of the amount
 on the day of mailing of the instrument and balance 50%
 on the seventh day after mailing, to the applicant bank.
 Instruments honoured by the branches of the applicant
 bank are to be debited to the current account of the
 respondent No.1 Company with the applicant bank. The
 applicant bank within 45 days of expiry of payment will
 close the account and remit the proceeds to the Bank of
 America the respondent No.5. the respondent No.1 Company in respect of issue,
 allotment, subscription and refund of shares. It is further
 stated therein that the respondent No.1 is "bound by
 law" to pay the refund amount and the applicant bank
 being a refund banker to the issue was and is interested
 in repayment of excess moneys. Thus, the respondent
 No.1 is liable to reimburse the amounts paid by applicant
 bank on such refund orders under section 69 of the
 Indian Contract Act read with other applicable provisions
 of law. It is further stated that the applicant bank by
 virtue of the valid refund orders issued by the respondent
 No.1 and payable to all branches of the bank was
 "immediately bound" by law to honour the payment
 thereof on presentation by the allottees for which
 respondent No.1 was "ultimately bound" by law to do so. (f) In paragraphs (vi) and (vii), it has been stated thus: (vii) As submitted above the refund orders issued by
 respondent No.1 drawn on the applicant Bank were
 "payable at par"at all branches of applicant Bank and
 various branches were designated for this purpose. Upon
 collection of information from such branches the
 applicant Bank submitted their claim to Bank of America
 on various dates from November 1992 to 8th March, 1993
 for an aggregate sum of Rs.5,30,93,220/- and received
 an amount of Rs.4,32,24,935/- from Bank of America in
 part reimbursement of the claim of the applicant bank
 and leaving a balance of Rs.98,68,385/- still due to be
 received from Respondent No.1 to Respondent No.4. The
 applicant Bank had accordingly taken up the matters
 with the Respondents for making payment with 15%
 interest. Bank of America also is understood to have
 given a notice to Respondent No.1 and Respondent No.1
 also made reference to such notice in correspondence
 with the applicant. (g) In paragraph (viii) it is stated that the respondents No.1
 to 4 have been contacted from time to time for making
 payment and the respondent No.1 gave several
 assurances for such payment. The gist of such
 assurances which creates an estoppel against the
 Respondent No.1 to 4 is summarized therein with
 reference to letters dated (a) 20.4.94, (b) 26.4.94, (c)
 27.4.94, (d) 3.6.1994 and two cheques Rs.4,00,000/-
 each totally amounting to of Rs.8,00,000/- in repayment
 of part of their total liability towards applicant Bank on
 account of refund order amounts paid by the applicant
 bank. (e) reference is made to the request of the
 Respondent No.1 Company to postpone the presentation
 of the cheques and to the fact that the cheques were Page 14 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

 dishonoured upon being presented pursuant to which a
 complaint was filed under section 138 of the NI Act.
 Reference is made to (f) letter dated 23.6.94, (g) letter
 dated 17.8.94, and (i) letter dated 24.10.94, all of which
 are in the nature of correspondence between the Bank of
 Baroda and the respondent company. Reference is also
 made to a demand notice dated 19.11.1994 sent by the
 applicant's advocate to the respondent No.1 for the
 amount payable under the dishonoured cheques. (h) In Paragraph (ix) it has been asserted that under the
 statutory provisions, as narrated above, the respondents
 No.1 to 4 are liable to make payment of the aforesaid
 amount due to the applicant bank. The respondent No.1
 has also confirmed, acknowledged and admitted their
 responsibility to make the aforesaid payment as is
 evident from various correspondences. In paragraph (x) it
 has inter alia been stated that by virtue of the provisions
 of section 73 of the Companies Act, the respondents No.1
 to 4 are jointly liable to make payment to the applicant
 bank and to make full provision for the refund orders
 issued by them which sum being in the nature of the
 money of the investors, there is a statutory constraint
 which prevents the respondent No.1 company from
 utilizing such money for any other purpose. In paragraph (xi) it is stated that the application for recovery of
 Rs.14,252,381/- is comprised of Rs.98,68,385/- being the
 money payable under section 69 of the Contract Act and
 various admissions made by the Respondents in
 correspondence; and Rs.43,83,996/- being 15% interest
 per annum from 30.10.92 till the date when the amount Page 15 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

 due was ascertained and demanded to 15.10.95. In the
 relief paragraph, the applicant has prayed that the
 respondents No.1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 be ordered jointly and
 severally be decreed to pay a total sum of Rs.
 1,42,52,381/- with further interest thereon at 15% per
 annum etc. 14. In response to the application, the petitioner Bank of
America has submitted a written statement wherein it is inter
alia stated that the application discloses no cause of action
against Bank of America and is therefore liable to be dismissed
with costs. That there is no allegation or basis laid or set out in
the application as to how and on what basis the applicant is
entitled to make any claim or seek any relief against the
respondent No.5 Bank of America. It is alleged that the Bank of
Baroda has suppressed facts by not producing material and
relevant documents and facts. In the written statement,
reference is made to the letter dated 9.4.1992 addressed by
the petitioner to the Bank of Baroda regarding the terms of the
arrangement to be entered into between them as well as to
the letter dated 6.5.1992 of the Bank of Baroda accepting its
appointment as a correspondent bank in connection with the
refund of excess share application monies on the terms
contained in the letter dated 9.4.1992 read with the terms set
out in the letter dated 6.5.1992. In paragraph (b) of the written
statement, it is stated thus: instruments) the Applicant will close the account in Page 16 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

respect of each issue and remit the proceeds to the 5th
Respondent and further that in case the payment
instruments received by the Applicant's branches after the
45th day the same may be presented to the 5th Respondent
who may obtain payment from the 1st Respondent
Company and reimburse the same to the Applicant. The
5th Respondent states that the said clause:3 therefor
provided that within 45 days after the expiry of the
validity of payment instrument the Applicant was to close
the account and remit any amount lying with the Applicant
in the refund account to the 6th Respondent and that any
payment instrument presented to the Applicant after the
45th day, the same were to be dealt with by Applicant only
on collection basis i.e. to forward the same to the 5th
Respondent and only if the payment was received by the
5th Respondent from the 1st respondent and in turn
forwarded by the 5th Respondent to the Applicant, was the
Applicant to make payment against such instruments and
no otherwise. In such cases, these instruments, were
received by the Applicant after the 45th day and the 5th
Respondent was not to incur or did not incur any personal
liability or under obligation to make payment at all. The 5th
Respondent states that the aforesaid arrangement was
not restricted to the public issue of the Respondent
Company but was in relation to the issues of several
companies as well and was thus a general arrangement
filtered (sic. entered) into between the Applicant on the
one hand and the 5th Respondent on the other. The
Applicant has not deliberately referred to the aforesaid
arrangement and terms thereof in the Applications." "(e) After the date of expiry of the refund warrants the
 Applicants has closed its refund account which closure
 was effected after having debited the amount in respect of
 all refund instrument which had been presented to the
 Applicant for payment upto the date of closure of the
 account by the Applicant. Upon such closure by eh
 Applicant the Applicant voluntarily forwarded to the 5th
 Respondent the balance in the account. This balance was
 forwarded after the Applicant fully reimbursed itself in
 respect of reimbursement instruments presented to the
 Applicant for payment upto the date of closure of the
 account. This balance was forwarded after the Applicant
 fully reimbursed itself in respect of reimbursement of
 instruments presented to the Applicant for repayment
 upto the date of closure of the account. After the closure
 of the account, the Applicant was not required to make
 any payment against any refund instrument that might be
 presented to it. The Applicant was not required to forward
 the same on collection basis to the 5th Respondent or to
 the 1st Respondent Company. The 5th Respondent says
 that thus the arrangement between the applicant and the
 5th Respondent in relation to the public issue of the 1st
 Respondent was fully worked out and nothing remained
 outstanding as between the Applicant and the 5th
 Respondent. 14.2 Reference is thereafter made to the letter dated 26 th
November of the Bank of America as well as its letter dated
21st January, 1993. Various other facts including the Page 18 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

correspondence between the parties are set out in the written
statement and the relevant documents are annexed thereto. It
is categorically stated therein that the Bank of America did not
hold any amounts whatsoever of the first respondent company
and in connection with the refund of amounts the entire
arrangement had been completed, concluded and come to an
end. It is also averred that the Bank of Baroda accepted the
position that they were not entitled to make any claim against
the Bank of America or to look to the Bank of America for any
payment thereafter; however, it appears that the Bank of
Baroda had some claim outstanding against the respondent
company and had demands on the first respondent company
for such payments. It is also stated that the applicant Bank of
Baroda had voluntarily and on its own closed the account and
handed over the balance in the account to the fifth respondent
Bank of America. It was presumed that before handing over
the amount to the Bank of America, Bank of Baroda had
reimbursed itself in respect of all the amounts to which it is
entitled. This is in fact set out by the Bank of America in the
correspondence in that behalf i.e. letters dated 26.11.1992 and
21.1.1993 which position has been confirmed by the Bank of
Baroda. It is, accordingly contended that any outstanding claim
of the applicant Bank of Baroda can only be against the
respondent company and not against the Bank of America. It
further averred that all the correspondence referred to in the
application is between the applicant Bank of Baroda and the
respondent company which clearly shows that the applicant
was making a claim only against the respondent company. 15. A perusal of the impugned order passed by the Debts
Recovery Tribunal shows that it had framed the following Page 19 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

issues:- 16. In paragraph 11 of the impugned order dated 29.5.2006
of the Debts Recovery Tribunal , it has been recorded that it is
the case of the defendant No.1 (company) that there was no
privity of contract between it and, therefore, would not be
liable for any liability. The Tribunal, after considering the
letters which have been placed on record by Bank of Baroda,
has observed that if these letters are minutely perused, it
would go to show that the applicant was assigned the work of
payment on the basis of refund orders. It has also come on
record that the defendant No.1 had issued some cheques in
favour of the applicant which came to be dishonoured. All
these factors/circumstances go to show that there was a
commercial relationship established between the applicant and
defendant No.1. Now, defendant No.1 cannot deny the liability. C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

Accordingly, the Tribunal has discarded the plea taken by the
defendant No.1 regarding lack of privity. 16.1 In paragraph 12 of the impugned order, the Tribunal
has held thus:- 16.2 Thus, the Tribunal has held that there was a
contract between the applicant (Bank of Baroda) and
defendant No.5 (Bank of America) whereby the applicant had Page 21 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

agreed to act on behalf of the defendant No.5 as far as refund
payments to the unsuccessful investors to the issue were
concerned. 16.3 A perusal of the issues framed by the Tribunal
reveals that no such issue regarding the nature of the contract
between the petitioner Bank and Bank of Baroda has been
framed by it nor does such issue arise from the pleadings.
Under the circumstances, it was not permissible to for the
Tribunal to decide such issue which was not framed by it.
Moreover, before the Tribunal, the defendant No.1 Company
had raised a plea regarding mis-appropriation of funds by the
applicant Bank of Baroda and had further contended that the
applicant had failed to submit the reconciliation statement and
statement of refund orders. The Tribunal, however, has
brushed aside the argument by observing that there is no
inkling of any fraud/irregularity on the part of the appellant in
the payment to the investors. From the record of the case,
there is no material whatsoever to show that as to on what
basis the Tribunal has arrived at such conclusion. 16.4 In paragraph 14, the Tribunal has recorded thus: 16.5 Thus, the Tribunal has observed that there is no
foundation to the plea set up by the defendant No.5 namely
the petitioner Bank. While doing so the Tribunal has remained
completely oblivious to the fact that no foundational facts have
been pleaded by the Bank of Baroda against the petitioner
Bank in the original application and that even the two letters
which form the basis of the order of the Tribunal have been
produced on record by the petitioner Bank and not by the Bank
of Baroda which was the applicant before it. It has also ignored
the extensive documentary evidence in the nature of
correspondence between the petitioner Bank and Bank of
Baroda which has been brought on record by the petitioner
Bank. In the opinion of this court, the finding that the
applicant, namely, Bank of Baroda had made payment as per
the direction of the defendant No.5 (the petitioner Bank) forty
five days after expiry of the validity of the warrants is without
any basis whatsoever, inasmuch as there is no material on
record to support such a finding. 16.6 Reading the impugned order of the Tribunal in its
entirety, it is manifest that the Tribunal has made a short shrift
of the matter and without applying its mind to the pleadings
and the case put forth before it, merely on the basis of two
letters, which too, have come on record at the instance of the
petitioner and which find no reference in the O.A. has held the Page 23 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

petitioner Bank liable without so much adverting to the other
correspondence on record. Besides, when no foundation for a
claim against the petitioner Bank had been laid in the
pleadings, no relief could have been claimed or granted
against the petitioner. 17. It may be noted that in the body of the application, there
is no reference to the two letters between the petitioner Bank
of America and the applicant Bank of Baroda which form the
basis of the order of the Tribunal insofar as holding the
petitioner Bank to be liable is concerned. Moreover, though a
legal notice dated 18.2.1995 was issued to the petitioner,
which was duly replied by the petitioner vide its reply dated
24.2.1995; there is no reference to the same in the application. 18. In the above backdrop, this court is of the considered
view that the Tribunal could not have granted any relief
against the petitioner Bank when no factual foundation existed
or was laid in the pleadings of the parties. In this regard,
reference may be made to the decision of the Supreme Court
in SBI v. S.N. Goyal, (2008) 8 SCC 92, wherein the Supreme
Court has held thus: "19. The plaint did not contain any plea that the order
 of removal by the appointing authority (Chief General
 Manager) was vitiated on account of his consulting and
 acting on the advice of the Chief Vigilance Officer of
 the Bank. Nor did it contain any allegation that the
 appointing authority acted on extraneous material in
 passing the order of removal. In the plaint, the
 challenge to the order of removal was on the ground
 that the enquiry by the enquiry officer was opposed to
 principles of natural justice that is: (i) the charge was
 vague and not established; (ii) he was not given Page 24 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

 reasonable opportunity to defend himself; (iii) material
 witnesses were not examined; (iv) documents relied on
 were not formally proved; (v) burden of proof was
 wrongly placed on him; (vi) findings in the enquiry
 report were based on surmises and conjectures; and (vii) the enquiry officer was prejudiced. The respondent
 had also averred that the appointing authority had
 approved the recommendation made by the
 disciplinary authority for imposition of penalty of
 removal without application of mind and without giving
 him a hearing. He alternatively contended that the
 punishment imposed was severe and disproportionate
 to the gravity of the proved charge. But there was
 absolutely no plea with reference to the
 advice/recommendation of the Chief Vigilance Officer
 of the Bank. However, during the examination of the
 Bank's witness DW 1 (T.S. Negi, Deputy Manager) it
 was elicited that on 18-1-1995, the disciplinary
 authority had put up a recommendation to impose the
 penalty of reduction of pay by four stages by taking a
 lenient view; that the appointing authority had by its
 note dated 18-1-1995 accepted the said
 recommendation; that subsequently, on 2-2-1995, the
 appointing authority had informed the Chief Vigilance
 Officer of the Bank about the enquiry and proposed
 punishment; and that after receiving the comments of
 the Chief Vigilance Officer, the appointing authority on
 the recommendations of the disciplinary authority had
 reconsidered the question of punishment and imposed
 the penalty of removal. The respondent-plaintiff did not
 amend the plaint to include the averments and
 grounds to challenge the order of removal on the said
 additional ground. No issue was framed in that behalf.
 No amount of evidence on a plea that was not put
 forward in the pleadings can be looked into. In the
 absence of necessary pleading and issue, neither the
 trial court nor the appellate court could have
 considered the contention and recorded a finding
 thereon. 21. In the absence of appropriate pleading on a
 particular issue, there can be no adjudication of such
 issue. Adjudication of a dispute by a civil court is
 significantly different from the exercise of power of
 judicial review in a writ proceedings by the High Court. C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

 In a writ proceedings, the High Court can call for the
 record of the order challenged, examine the same and
 pass appropriate orders after giving an opportunity to
 the State or the statutory authority to explain any
 particular act or omission. In a civil suit parties are
 governed by rules of pleadings and there can be no
 adjudication of an issue in the absence of necessary
 pleadings." [Emphasis supplied] 19. Reference was also made to the decision of the Supreme
Court in the case of Arulmigu Chokkanatha Swamy Koil
Trust v. Chandran , (2017) 3 SCC 702, wherein the Supreme
Court held thus : 20. It may be noted that insofar as the letters dated 9.4.1992
and 6.5.1992, are concerned, there are no pleadings in respect
thereof in the original application. The said letters have been
referred to in the written statement/reply of the petitioner to
explain the nature of the agreement between the parties.
Since there are no pleadings in respect thereof, no issue has
been framed in that regard. No issue has been framed with
regard to the contract between the petitioner and the first
respondent Bank of Baroda, and hence, the Tribunal could not
have recorded any finding to the effect that there was a
contract between Bank of Baroda and Bank of America
whereby Bank of Baroda had agreed to act on behalf of Bank
of America as far as the refund payments to the unsuccessful
investors of the issue were concerned. 21. The finding with regard to suppressio veri and suggestio
falsi against the petitioner is also without any basis, inasmuch
as, on the contrary, it is the petitioner Bank which has brought
on record the agreement with the respondent No.1 Bank and
all other correspondence, whereas the first respondent Bank in Page 27 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

the entire memorandum of application has not referred to any
such documents. Despite the fact that the letters dated
9.4.1992 and 6.5.1992 do not find mention in the application,
the Tribunal has based its order thereon while granting relief to
the first respondent bank against the petitioner without any
foundational facts having been laid in that regard. 22. The petitioner in the written statement has not only
brought all the relevant documents on record but has clearly
explained its stand. The Tribunal, however, has failed to
consider the facts pleaded by the petitioner and without
reference to the subsequent letters which have been placed on
record as well as the correspondence of the applicant Bank of
Baroda with the respondent company has, in a perfunctory
manner on the basis of two letters brought on record by the
petitioner, who was the fifth respondent therein, held the
petitioner jointly liable with the defendants no. 1 to 4 for the
amount claimed by Bank of Baroda. When there were no
foundational facts pleaded in the application, the Tribunal had
no basis to hold the petitioner liable. If the applicant Bank of
Baroda wanted to make the petitioner liable, the foundational
facts ought to have been set out in the application for the
petitioner to be able to deal with the same. Under the
circumstances, the conclusion arrived at by the Tribunal,
insofar as the petitioner is concerned, having been arrived at
without any basis, the impugned order passed by the Debts
Recovery Tribunal cannot be sustained to that extent. 23. Insofar as the impugned order passed by the Debts
Recovery Appellate Tribunal is concerned, on a plain reading of
the order, it is evident that the Appellate Tribunal too has, Page 28 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

without considering the pleadings and the facts and
circumstances of the case in proper perspective, in a
perfunctory manner upheld the order passed by the Debts
Recovery Tribunal and dismissed the appeal. The Appellate
Tribunal has upheld that order passed by the Debt Recovery
Tribunal by referring to the two letters dated 9.4.1992 and
9.5.1992 on which reliance has been placed by the Debt
Recovery Tribunal for holding the petitioner Bank to be liable.
It, however, has failed to consider the plea that no foundational
facts had been laid against the petitioner Bank by the
applicant Bank of Baroda in the original application and that
the two letters which form the basis of the impugned orders do
not find reference in the original application but were brought
on record by the petitioner Bank together with all the other
correspondence between the petitioner Bank and the applicant
Bank of Baroda. However, like the Debt Recovery Tribunal, the
Appellate Tribunal too has failed to consider the other
documentary evidence brought on record by the petitioner
Bank. 24. At this juncture reference may be made to the relevant
correspondence between the parties before the Tribunal. By a
letter dated 26th November, 1992. the petitioner Bank has
informed the first respondent Bank that the issue account
opened with its branch had been closed on 30.10.92 and the
balance of Rs.42,155,940/- had been returned to it. The
respondent Bank has been called upon to let the petitioner
Bank know if any debits are pending at its branch so that the
funds can be reimbursed to it. It is further requested that the
first respondent Bank should ensure that this is done by 10 th
December, 1992 and after that date for all further debts it may Page 29 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

get in touch with the company. Thereafter by a letter dated
21st January, 1993 the petitioner Bank inter alia informed the
first respondent Bank that the issues of the second respondent
company have expired and the accounts closed and returned
to them. It is further stated that they have since reconciled the
accounts and the balance funds have been returned as per the
company's instruction. Hence, in future, for any debts the
respondent Bank may claim reimbursement directly from the
concerned companies. The first respondent Bank was also
requested to return the duplicate of the letter duly signed as a
mark of its confirmation. In response thereto, the first
respondent Bank addressed a letter dated 25.1.93 to the
petitioner Bank requesting it to give the full and complete
address of the company wherefrom they would be able to
obtain reimbursements for the delayed claims. Pursuant
thereto, the petitioner Bank, by a letter dated 30th January,
1993 furnished the address of the company for the purpose of
obtaining reimbursements of delayed claims. Thereafter the
first respondent Bank addressed a letter dated 13.2.93 to the
petitioner Bank stating thus: 24.1 Thereafter, the first respondent Bank addressed a
communication dated 5.8.93 to the petitioner Bank, inter alia,
stating thus: We confirm that no further principal or interest on those
 funds is due to us on the above. For any further claims, we
 shall revert directly to the respectively companies as
 communicated to you earlier." 24.2 Thereafter, there is correspondence between the
second respondent Company and the first respondent Bank
dated 20th April, 1994, 3rd June, 1994, 17th August, 1994, 24th
October, 1994 which reveals that the Company and the first
respondent Bank had directly communicated with each other
and tried to resolve the matter amicably. Thereafter, the first
respondent Bank issued a demand notice dated 18.2.1995 to
the petitioner Bank in response to which the petitioner Bank
gave its reply dated 24th February, 1995. Subsequently, the
petitioner Bank by a letter dated 30th August, 1995 requested Page 31 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

the first respondent Company to verify its record and
thereafter reimburse Bank of Baroda directly at the earliest in
order to close their long outstanding matter. 24.3 Thereafter the first respondent Bank of Baroda
made the above Original Application No.124 of 1995 wherein it
is stated that the causes of action arose on 31.12.1992 when
the applicant arranged for the refund of amount thorough its
various branches and thereafter arose on 26.4.94, 27.4.94,
3.6.94, 23.6.94, 17.8.94 and 24.10.94 when the Respondent
No.1 (the Company) gave assurances to the applicant for
repaying the dues. 25. Thus, it is evident that after the closure of accounts and
return of funds, the first respondent Bank had agreed that in
future, for any debits, it would claim reimbursement directly
from the company and had accordingly, directly communicated
with the company for reimbursement of payments after 45
days of issue expiry. Even, the cause of action is stated to
have arisen when the second respondent Company gave
assurances to the first respondent Bank for repaying the dues.
In the entire memorandum of application, there are no
averments with regard to the correspondence between the
petitioner Bank and the first respondent Bank so as to point
out the nature of the agreement between the parties and there
are no pleadings in this regard. However, in the relief
paragraph the petitioner Bank is sought to be made jointly
liable. Thus, in the absence of any cause of action having been
stated against the petitioner Bank and without any foundation
having been laid in the pleadings as regards the liability of the
petitioner Bank, it was not legally permissible for the Debt Page 32 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

Recovery Tribunal to hold that the liability of the petitioner
would arise, ex contractu. The Appellate Tribunal has also
erred in not considering that in the absence of any
foundational facts and pleadings, the petitioner Bank could not
have been held to be jointly liable to make payment of the
decretal amount to the first respondent Bank. Both the
impugned orders suffer from various legal infirmities as
discussed hereinabove, and, therefore, cannot be sustained. 26. In the light of the above discussion, the petition succeeds
and is, accordingly, allowed The impugned order dated
30.6.2017 passed by the Debts Recovery Appellate Tribunal at
Mumbai in Appeal No.344 of 2006 as well as the order dated
29.5.2006 passed by the Debts Recovery Tribunal at
Ahmedabad in O.A. No.124 of 1995 to the extent the same
hold the petitioner Bank to be jointly and severally liable along
with the respondents No.2 to 5 herein for payment of the
decretal amount to the first respondent Bank, are hereby
quashed and set aside. Rule is made absolute accordingly with
no order as to costs. 27. At this stage, the learned counsel for the petitioner has
submitted that pursuant to an order passed by the Debts
Recovery Appellate Tribunal, the petitioner had deposited a
sum of Rs.50,00,000/- with the Debts Recovery Tribunal.
Having regard to the fact that the petitioner has succeeded in
the present petition, the amount of Rs.50,00,000/- so
deposited by it, shall be forthwith refunded to the petitioner
along with the interest that may have accrued thereon. 28. At this stage, the learned counsel for the respondent No.1 Page 33 of 34 C/SCA/20598/2017 JUDGMENT

Bank has requested to stay the operation of this order for a
period of eight weeks to enable the said respondent to
approach the higher forum. Having regard to the facts and
circumstances of the case, the request is declined. (HARSHA DEVANI, J)

 (A. S. SUPEHIA, J)
Z.G. SHAIKH Page 34 of 34