% 29.05.2025
 I.A. 14189/2025 (u/O XI Rule 1 (4) of CPC , 1908) CS(COMM) 573/2025 Page 1 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09 1. The present application has been filed on behalf of the plaintiff
 seeking leave to file additional documents. 2. The plaintiff is permitted to file additional documents in accordance
 with the provisions of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 and the Delhi High
 Court (Original Side) Rules, 2018. 3. Accordingly, the application is disposed of. I.A. 14190/2025 (pre-institution mediation) 4. As the present suit contemplates urgent interim relief, in light of the
 judgment of the Supreme Court in Yamini Manohar v. T.K.D. Krithi , 2023
 SCC Online SC 1382, exemption from the requirement of pre-institution
 mediation is granted. 5. The application stands disposed of. I.A. 14191/2025 (exemption from filing certified/legible copies etc.) 6. Allowed, subject to the plaintiff filing legible copies of documents
 within four (4) weeks from today. 7. The application stands disposed of. I.A. 14192/2025 (Exemption from filing certificate u/S 63 of BSA, 2023) 8. Counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiff submits that the required
 Certificate under Section 63(4)(c) of Bhartiya Sakshya Adhiniyam, 2023
 shall be filed within thirty (30) days from today. 9. The aforesaid statement of counsel is taken on record. 10. The application stands disposed of. CS(COMM) 573/2025 11. Let the plaint be registered as a suit. 12. Issue summons. 13. Counsel appearing on behalf of the defendants no.1, 2, 3 and 5 accept CS(COMM) 573/2025 Page 2 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09
 summons in the suit and waive issuance of formal summons. 14. Summons be issued to the defendant no.6 through all permissible
 modes. 15. Since the defendant no.4 are John Doe defendants whose details are
 not known, summons need not be issued to them at this stage. 16. Written statement(s) shall be filed by the defendants within thirty days
 from the date of the receipt of summons. Along with the written
 statement(s), the defendants shall also file affidavit of admission/denial of
 the documents of the plaintiff, without which the written statement(s) shall
 not be taken on record. 17. Liberty is given to the plaintiff to file replication(s), if any, within
 thirty days from the receipt of the written statement(s). Along with the
 replication(s) filed by the plaintiff, affidavit of admission/denial of the
 documents of the defendants be filed by the plaintiff. 18. The parties shall file all original documents in support of their
 respective claims along with their respective pleadings. In case parties are
 placing reliance on a document, which is not in their power and possession,
 its detail and source shall be mentioned in the list of reliance, which shall
 also be filed with the pleadings. 19. If any of the parties wish to seek inspection of any documents, the
 same shall be sought and given within the timelines. 20. List before the Court on 21st July, 2025. I.A. 14188/2025 (u/O XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of CPC , 1908) 21. The present suit has been filed seeking relief of permanent injunction
 restraining infringement of the trademarks and disparagement of the CS(COMM) 573/2025 Page 3 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09
 plaintiff, along with other ancillary reliefs. 22. Issue notice. 23. Notice is accepted by the counsel appearing on behalf of the
 defendants no.1, 2, 3 and 5. 24. Notice be issued to the defendant no.6 through all permissible modes. 25. Since the defendant no.4 are John Doe defendants whose details are
 not known, notice need not be issued to them at this stage. 26. At the outset, counsel for the defendant no.3 submits that the
 defendant no.3 is willing to take down his tweet/post made on the defendant
 no.6's platform 'X' (formerly known as 'Twitter'), a screenshot of which is
 given on page no.8 of the plaintiff's documents. 26.1 The aforesaid statement of the counsel is taken on record. 27. The aforesaid tweet/post shall be taken down within 24 hours. 28. In view of the aforesaid, counsel for the plaintiff does not press for
 any reliefs against the defendant no.3. 29. Accordingly, the defendant no.3 is deleted from the array of parties. 30. Counsel for the defendant no.2, without prejudice to the rights and
 contentions of the defendant no.2, submits that the defendant no.2 shall take
 down the first tweet/post made on the defendant no.6's platform 'X'
 (formerly known as 'Twitter'), a screenshot of which is given on page no.10
 of the plaintiff's documents. 30.1. The aforesaid statement of the counsel is taken on record. 31. The aforesaid tweet/post shall be taken down within 24 hours. 32. I have heard Mr. Amit Sibal, senior advocate appearing on behalf of
 the plaintiff and Mr. Chander M. Lall, senior advocate appearing on behalf
 of the defendant no.1 at some length. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09 33. Mr. Lall, without prejudice to the rights and contentions of the
 defendant no.1, submits as under: - 34. Reply(ies) be filed within four weeks from today. 35. Rejoinder(s) thereto, if any, be filed within two weeks thereafter. 36. Along with his reply, the defendant shall place on record the complete
 audio recording of the telephonic conversation between the representative(s)
 of the plaintiff and defendant no.1, which has been referred to in the
 impugned video. 37. Mr. Sibal also seeks take-down of certain tweets/posts made by John
 Doe defendants, who have been impleaded as defendant no.4, as they
 contain disparaging content and are defaming the plaintiffs and its founders. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09 38. In my prima facie view, the aforesaid tweets/posts are disparaging
 and defamatory in nature and their continued presence would cause
 immense prejudice and harm to the reputation of the plaintiffs. 39. Accordingly, the defendant no.6 is directed to forthwith take down the
 following tweets/posts made on its platform 'X' (formerly known as
 'Twitter'):- 40. Compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure ,
 1908 qua the defendant no.6 shall be done within a period of three days
 from today. The affidavit in terms of Order XXXIX Rule 3 of CPC shall be
 filed by the plaintiff within one (1) week thereafter. 41. List on 21st July, 2025. AMIT BANSAL, J
 MAY 29, 2025
 Vivek/- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09
 ANNEXURE-A

 Transcript of Impugned video dated 25th May, 2025 (document no.1 of
 the plaintiff's documents)

 1992 mei, Papa ka stock-broking business tha. Usi saal Harshad Mehta ka
 scam hua. Aur overnight, Poora business band ho gaya. Kuch logo se Papa
 ko paise lene the aur kuch ko dene the. Jinko dene the, unka phone aaye jaa
 raha hai aur jinse lene the wo phone pick up nai kar rahe. Sardi ka samay
 tha, meri behen 1-1.5 saal ki thi, to Papa ne Mummy ko bola ki isko lekar
 chalet hai, unke ghar jaate hai, shayad daya kha le aur paisa wapas kar de. Ye halat thi us samay. Usi saal mai paida hua. Ab ye poori Ramkatha bhala
 mai aapko kyu bata raha hu? Isliye, kyuki agle 30 saal, mere parents nei
 mehnat kari taaki mujhe na kisi ke saamne girgirana na pade. They worked
 so that I can run. I am not asking what's the time duration you have used. 5
 minutes, 10 minutes, 10 seconds. You used strike footage without my
 permission. I put a claim on YouTube. They have put a strike. Copyright strike. ANI ne
 mujhpe pressure daala hai ki agar maine 50 lakh rupees nahi diye to mera
 channel deleted rahega. I'll just be okay. Karna hai karo sir, aapka channel jaa raha hai... jaa raha.
 Par ab tandav hoga, mai aapko saari baatein bataunga jo ANI ne mujhe boli
 aur emails dikhaunga jo unhone bheje. To ab start karte hai. 20 May ko mujhe pehli copyright strike mili thi apne
 Kolkata rape case ke video ke liye. Ye video maine kayi mahine pehle
 banaya tha, Copyright strike kisne bheji? ANI ne. Kyu? Kyuki maine 16-
 minute ke video mei unki 11-second footage use ki. Mere team members ne bataya ki dusre creators ko bhi copyright strikes aa
 rahi hai. But honestly, I maine iske baarei mei itna zaada socha nai kyuki
 mujhe laga ye to fair use ke under aana chaiye. Fair use basically ek terminology hai, ki agar aapko commentary karni hai
 na, to 20 ya 30-minute video ke liye kuch seconds kisi ke le liye to wo CS(COMM) 573/2025 Page 7 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09
 allowed hota hai. Aur mujhe ye bhi tha ki worst case copyright strike hai
 hum appeal karnge ho jayega solve. Mujhe kai copyright strikes aayi hai jaise is video mei ICC ne bheji thi. Ab
 aisi cases mei kayi baar video delete ho jaata hai ya fir kayi baar wo
 demonetise ho jaata hai yaani ki aap use paisa nai kama sakte. Par ye
 problem ANI ne idhar roki nai, kuch hi din baad mujhe ek aur copyright
 strike aayi, mere Operation Sindoor ke video ke liye, bhala kyu? Kyuki maine apni 38-minute ke video, mei, unki 9-second ki footage use
 kari thi Defence Minister Rajnath Singh ki. YouTube ke hisab se, agar
 aapko 3 copyright strikes mil jaati hai to aapla channel delete ho jaata hai
 immediately. To bas mai ek strike door tha ye chiz hone se. Usi samay, mujhe ek article ke baarein mei pata chala jaha ye likha hai ki
 ANI ye chiz kayi aur YouTubers ke saath kar raha hai. Aur unse 15-20 lakh
 ripees maang raha hai ye strikes hatwane ke liye. In fact, mere chief of staff ne ek creator se baat bhi kari jinko 3 se zaada
 copyright strikes mil gayi thi aur unka channel delete ho gaya tha. Unhone
 ANI se baat kari aur ANI ne kaha hume 22 lakh plus GST do aur hum aapka
 ye saara chiz solve kar denge. Negotiation ki us creator ne
 Aur eventually 18 lakhs plus GST diya. Kisliye? Kyuki kuch second ki
 footage unhone use kari thi. Is creator ne fir mujhe ANI employee ka
 number diya jo in saarei chizo ko handle kar raha hai. Do din pehle, mere
 team member ne is aadmi ko call kiya aur bola hume copyright mil gayi hai,
 kaise solve kare. Immediately, usne ek email diya aur bola ispe email karo
 ispar humara ek response aayega tumhe. Mere team member ne email bheja aur fir reply aaya. Email mei pata hai kya
 likha tha? 45 lakh plus GST do aur channel ki saari strikes hum hata denge,
 nahi doge to channel delete ho jayega. ANI ne ye nai bola ko unki in video
 ka revenue chaiye, unhone kaha ki hum to channel delete karwa denge agar
 aapne ye paise nai diye. Ab mujhe batao, kya ye ek 'Hafta Vasooli' ki tarah nahi hai? Unhone kaha
 ki ye 45 lakh plus GST penalty ka amount hai aur ye annual subscription hai
 ANI ke liye. ANI basically ek news agency service hai jo video shoot karti CS(COMM) 573/2025 Page 8 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09
 hai aur kayi news channel ko bechti hai. Uka kehna hai ki 45 lakh plus GST do, aapki penalties bhi ismei included ho
 jayengi aur aapko annual subscription mil jaayega ANI ki footage ka. Ye
 kya ghatiya tareeka hai apna revenue badhane ka. Ki copyright strike do aur
 fir bolo ki 50 lakh rupees do aur aapko subscription mil jayega. Fir mere
 team member ne us ANI employee ko call kiya. Wo bolta hai ki appko kitni
 copyright strikes aayi hai? Humne bola 2. Usne bola acha bas 2. Abhi aapko 6 aur aayengi. Humne
 total 8 bhari hai. Usne kaha bhai 15 minute hog aye, isse zaada time to mai
 kisi ko nai deta, kal baat karenge, tu soch le jitna sochna hai. Pata hai kya
 hai, ye banda aur ye ANI ki team bahut chant hai. Inko pata hai ki abhi bas
 two strikes aayi hai to mai itna desperate nahi hu, ek baar teen strike
 aajayengi na aur channel delete ho jaayega, tab ye desperate honge, isliye
 wo chahte hai ki day by day negotiation extend hote rahe, ek baar channel
 delete ho gaya, to mai jo bhi number bolunga wo maan jaynge. Par bechare
 ko pata nahi wo kisse baat kar raha hai US ki ek policy hai ki that they don't
 negotiate with kidnappers. At least, officially, ye policy hai. And I feel that
 is my policy too. Mai ANI ke saath negotiation karne nahi aaya. Delete
 karna hai na channel, kar do. Shaam ko hi, mere team member ne us ANI employee ko call kiya. Boss,
 aap ek kaam karo na then. We can do one thing. Instead of one year, make it
 for two years for this price. Two years for what? Forty? Forty-five. Two years. Even then, that does not
 make sense. Like, think about it. Now I've suddenly given you 50%. Right?
 Kya deal hai bhai, 50% discount de raha hu mai tumhe. Maine Ajeesh ko bola mai unhe chawanni bhi nahi dunga, par tu unse baat
 kar. Point being... We will never be able to recover that money. If it is a fair
 amount, like I said, if we have to pay 1 lakh per month, that is something we
 can recover somehow. 30 is a number that we cannot recover. We will never be able to make that
 money, that investment back. End mei bolta ki, thodi der ruko, mai aapko
 call back karta hu. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09
 Kya bolun mai?... Just hold on, hold on. Yeah. Ajeesh, can I call you? Two
 minutes. Yeah, yeah, sure. Yeah, I'll call you. Call karke bolta hai ki chor
 ab, 40 lakh, 2 years, best deal. We have given the discount. If we go for the 2 years, I'll make it in the 45.
 Okay? 40 for 2 years. If you agree, okay. If you want to go for the 1 year, I'll
 make it 30 plus GST. Ajeesh ne fir breakdown maanga ki ye breakdown
 maanga ki ye 40 lakh aaya kaha se, batao breakdown. To ye banda bolta, 8
 copyright strikes diye. Har copy strike ki penalty lagti hai 5 lakh, to 40 lakh
 hog aye. To ya to 40 lakh penalty de do ya fir 40 lakh ka subscription hi le lo
 2 saal ka. I want to understand what was the breakdown of that 45 lakhs. See, if I'll
 give you the complete breakdown, then I'm not going to negotiate. I told you, 4-5 lakhs per month is charges for the subscription. Penalty is
 different. We have put strike on some 7-8 videos. If you consider that one,
 then 8 into 5 equals to 40, is the penalty. And subscription is different. Now tell me that. Aur ye inka business model
 hai. Strike daalo, channel delete karao, aur fir vasooli karke annual
 subscription becho. Batao ye haal hai humare desh ka, ki businesses soch rahe hai ki paisa kaise
 aetha jaaye dusre logo se. Ye nahi ki hum creative chize kare, problem solve
 kare, acha tareeka apnaye revenue kamane ke liye. Nahi, nahi, kisi ko kidnap kar lete hai, hostage banake fir vasooli karenge.
 Aur bhai uski baato mei koi logic nai hai, koi bhi logic nahi hai. Mere team
 member ne kaha TSeries ka agar aap gaana use karte ho, to T-Series bas us
 video ka revenue le leta hai. Ye nahi ki aap humara subscription lo aap 1 crore ka, aise nai chalta. Ye
 ANI ka banda bolta hai ki hamara business model alag hai, hum wo follow
 nahi karte hai. We are a different model, we don't claim the revenue, we put
 the strike, if you are ready to pay the penalty, ok. If you want to take the
 subscription, then we can consider the waive off on penalties. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09
 Aur pata hai end mei kya bolta hai wo banda, ki mujhe Mohak ka channel
 pasand hai, isliye itni baat kar li nahi to mai itna attention bhi nahi deta
 kisiko. Yaar Ajeesh, jo mai kar sakta tha, best I have given that. Bas I've given a lot of discount. Yaar itna to mai kisi se baat bhi nahi karta
 tha boss. But I'm considering, chalo yaar, because I love your channel.
 Basically, that's why I'm talking to you. Ha bhai, bahut bada ehsaan kar raha hai. 45 lakh ki deal maangi thi ek saal
 ke liye, ab 40 lakh ki kar di do saal ke liye. Tu hai kaun bhai? Tu usi employee ki tarah, jo Kolkata mei na, jo scam call
 centers hai, wo call karte hai aur bade chaude ban jaate hai ek baar. Usi ki
 tarah hai tu. Who are you to threaten me? To last deal offer karta hai ki 1 saal ka chahiye
 to Rs 30 lakhs do aur 2 saal ka chaiye to Rs 40 lakh do. Aur last mei wo batata hai, ek bahut bade creator ke baare mei. Jisne ANI ko
 recently abhi Rs 50 lakhs diye. Pichle hafte. Usne hame naam bataya. And
 they paid 50 lakh for 1 year only. 50 lakhs plus GST. They paid that. 50 lakh rupees diye ye poora maamla sort karne ke liye. You know the crazy
 thing ki ANI ne ye same chiz kayi creators ke sath kari hai irrespective of
 their ideology. Aur yaar meri to koi personal dushmani bhi nahi hai. Na maine kabhi unke
 khilaf kabhi video banaya na koi content banaya. You can delete my
 channel. You can ban me on YouTube. You can take away my titles. Everything. I know ki mai itna smart aur hardworking hu ki I will be
 successful no matter what. And you know what? Ki hamari government ko
 ye pata hona chahiye, which is why I wrote an email to the PMO and to I&B
 Minister Ashwini Vaishnav. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09
 Pata hona chahiye Sarkar ko ki chal kya raha hai unke duniya mei. This is
 the exact screenshot of the email I sent.A Ab maine apna part kar liya.
 Maine saare facts apne ministers ko bata diye. Ab ye unke upar hai. It's not in my control ki wo kaun sa decision lete hai.
 Ho sakta hai wo ANI ko favour kare. If that's true then, sabke saamne
 aajayega na ki hamare desh mei chal kya raha hai. That this 'Hafta Vasooli' is completely okay. Bihar mei 'Gundaraj' hota tha.
 Sabko pata tha ki raat mei agar gaadi leke guzroge to gaadi ki chori hoyegi,
 to ye 'Hafta Vasooli' sabke saamne aajayegi ki agar creator banna hai, aur
 aapne Operation Sindoor pe video banaya, 8 seconds ki footage li 30-minute
 ke video ke liye to 50 lakh dene padenge. Ye fir chupkar nai hoga na

 Ab mai usually aisa subscribe, like and share karne ki maang nahi karta hu.
 Bahut time ho gaya hai but, for this video, I need your help. First, share this
 video. I want this message to spread to as many people as possible. But avoid any
 personal attacks. Meri koi personal dushmani nahi hai un employees ke
 saath. You should avoid any personal attacks. If they are low, we will remain high.
 Second, target ANI where it hurts the most. So, koi bhi platform mei follow
 kar rahe ho, please unsubscribe and block them. Third, agar aap ek creator aur aapke zindagi mei maine kuch bhi positive
 laaya ho change, so please share this message. Especially those wo log jo ANI ke Podcast mei aaye, jaise Prakhar ho gaye
 ya fir Kushal ho gaye. Kyuki yaar, embarrassment sabse zaada tab hoti hai
 jab aapke aas paas waale log bhi bolte hai ki bhai tu kya kar raha hai. So if
 these people criticize ANI, maybe they will think that I need to change my
 behavior. Finally, if you are a creator jisko copyright strike mili hai ANI ke
 sath, and aise hi ANI ne aapke sath behave kiya hai, to record all the
 evidence. Emails ho gaye, call conversations ho gayi, jo bhi details aapke paas hai, CS(COMM) 573/2025 Page 12 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09
 email mei kaun kaun CCed tha, kisse email aaya, unhone kya kya bola,
 sabka evidence banao. Description aur pinned comment mei na, addresses hai I&B minister ke aur
 unke relevant officials ke, unko bhejo. Dekho agar hum sabhi log na, evidence ke sath email karenge na ministry
 ko, to minister tak baat to pahucnh jayegi. So, I would say collect all this
 evidence and share. ANI ko laga ki kayi creators ko dhamki mili hai. Mai khud kayi creators ko jaanta hu jinhone ne 12, 15, 18 lakh de diye. Ek
 creator ko jaise maine kaha, bade creator ne Rs 50 lakhs diye. To imagine
 karo ANI ne kitne paise kamaye. ANI ko laga mai bheek maangunga. Mai nahi mangunga kuch. Jo degrees collect kari hai na zindagi mei, wo
 maine deewar pe latkane ke liye nahi kari hai. Balki iske liye kari hai, taaki
 aise logo ka jab saamna ho zindagi mei, unse mei nipat saku. So thank you for watching. Agar ye channel delete ho jaye, tension mat lo,
 ek naya channel banega, aur mai utna hi successful hounga. ***
 [The red marked-up portions of the document shall be removed] CS(COMM) 573/2025 Page 13 of 13 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 27/06/2025 at 23:18:09