AMIT SHARMA, J. 1. The present petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973, (for short, ' CrPC '), has been filed seeking the following
 prayers: - 2. In the present case, FIR No. 70/2019, under Sections
 406 / 409 / 420 / 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, (for short, ' IPC '), and Sections 4 / 5 / 6 of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning)
 Act, 1978, (for short, 'PCMCS Act') was registered at Police Station
 Economic Offences Wing, on the basis of the complaint filed by one Saurabh
 Gupta and 20 other complainants wherein, they alleged that Bhim Sain Arora
 (Petitioner No.1), Kanchan Arora (Petitioner No.2), his wife and Paras Arora,
 his son, (who was kept in Column No. 12 of the chargesheet) were known to
 them for last 20 years and they used to run a company in the name of
 Multicity Chit Fund Pvt. Ltd., Petitioner No.3/accused company, having its
 registered office in Gurugram, Haryana. It was alleged that the said persons,
 since inception, were operating their business of chit fund in Ashok Vihar,
 Delhi and were carrying their activities related to finance/public funds under
 various names/companies. It was further alleged that during the said period,
 the petitioners while acting in conspiracy had lured the complainants to
 invest/deposit the money with them under the pretext of running committees Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 2 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 with the promise of good return at the time of maturity. It was further alleged
 that on further inducement by the petitioners, the complainants had also
 introduced their family members/relatives into various committees, chit fund
 schemes run by alleged persons/petitioners herein and they invested their hard
 earned money in the said schemes. Thus, in said manner, the petitioners have
 cheated the complainants to the tune of Rs. 3 Crores approximately for the
 sake of committee and deposit money for interest and Rs. 21,18,600/-, under
 the head of chit fund which were paid by the complainant via cash, cheques,
 RTGS transfer from time to time. 3. During investigation, statements under Section 161 of the CrPC were
 recorded of the victims/complainants and the relevant documents were
 obtained from them regarding their investment in the company of the
 petitioners and it was revealed that the petitioner No.1 used to run the
 business of chit fund/committee in 4-5 groups of approximately 20 members
 each. After going through the schemes floated by the petitioners,
 complainants had invested on his assurance in the said scheme, with alluring
 15-28% return per annum and that interest used to remain with the petitioner
 No.1 for further capital appreciation and after some time, he used to add them
 into the funds of the investors which he held in lieu of interest. It was further
 revealed during investigation that on the assurance of the petitioners,
 complainants had invested in their company for the return of their payments
 whenever required, however, later the petitioners requested to extend further
 time to repay and further allure the complainants with good interest return, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 3 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 but till date they did not even repay the principal amount invested by the
 complainants. It was further revealed that initially the petitioners used to pay
 the interest regularly, however, in January 2019, they called the investors and
 informed them that they do not have money to repay and in 2019, they sold
 their house and fled away without paying the complainants/investors. During
 investigation, the search of the house of the petitioners was conducted and a
 laptop containing all the records of the investment of the investors, i.e., Chit
 fund, committee, loan amount etc., was found. The petitioners, during
 interrogation, admitted to the amount invested by the investors as a loan for
 18% per annum interest to the tune of Rs.2,86,20,000/-. 4. During investigation, it was revealed that the amount so deposited by
 the investors for the chit fund has been siphoned off to the personal account of
 the accused persons/petitioners and the said company, as per report from
 Reserve Bank of India, has not been registered and it was not authorized to
 collect money from the investors as per the guidelines/norms of RBI. It was
 further observed that the said amount deposited by the investors was further
 transferred into various other accounts of the subsidiary companies formed by
 the petitioners and then, utilized by them for their own personal use. It was
 further revealed that the petitioners were authorized signatories of their
 company named, Multicity Chit Fund Pvt. Ltd., petitioner No.3, since
 inception. On completion of investigation, chargesheet was filed before the
 Court of competent jurisdiction against the petitioners and the aforesaid
 company. 5. Learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate based on the allegations made
 in the chargesheet framed charges for the offences punishable under Sections
 409/420 read with Section 120B of the IPC and Sections 4/5/6 of the PCMCS
 Act against all the accused persons vide order dated 19.07.2022. The said
 order was challenged by way of Criminal Revision Petition No. 331/2022
 before the learned ASJ and the same was dismissed vide order dated
 08.02.2023. Hence, the present petition has been filed assailing the impugned
 order on charge passed by learned CMM. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioners has submitted that charges for the
 offences punishable under Sections 409 / 420 of the IPC cannot coexist
 together and is not prima facie maintainable as the ingredients of both these
 offences are altogether different. It is further submitted that the learned CMM
 has wrongly distinguished the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in N.
 Raghavender v. State of Andhra Pradesh 1 , by observing that the said
 judgment is not related to consideration on charge and the same was rendered
 academically. It is further submitted that learned ASJ had erred in concluding
 that the Court with the aid of Section 221 of the CrPC can frame charge for
 both the offences, however, conviction can be made only for the one offence.
 It is further submitted that the charge for the offence punishable under Sections 409 / 420 of the IPC is not simultaneously maintainable as nothing
 has been revealed from the charge sheet which could show that the petitioners 1 (2021) 18 SCC 70 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 5 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 have misappropriated the funds invested by the complainant. It is submitted
 that the present dispute is purely civil in nature. Reliance has been placed on Delhi Race Club Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh2 , to contend that although
 the offence of breach of trust and cheating involved dishonest intention, yet
 they are mutually exclusive and different in their foundation. In case of
 criminal breach of trust, the offender is lawfully interested with the property
 and he dishonestly misappropriate the same, whereas in case of cheating, the
 offender fraudulently or dishonestly induces a person by deceiving him to
 deliver any such property. This shows that both these offences cannot coexist
 simultaneously. Reliance has also been placed on the judgment of Coordinate
 Bench of this Court in Wolfgang Reim & Ors. v. State & Anr.3 , to contend
 that a person cannot be charged with offence of cheating and criminal breach
 of trust simultaneously for the same transaction as for the offence of cheating
 the dishonest intention must exist at the inception of transaction, whereas, for
 criminal breach of trust, the dishonest intention comes at the later stage after
 the person has been entrusted with or has dominion over the subject property.
 Reliance has also been placed on the judgement of Hon'ble Guwahati High
 Court in Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd. v. M/s Delta
 Classic Pvt. Ltd.4, to contend that a person cannot be charged on the same
 facts for the offence of criminal breach of trust, as well as the offence of
 cheating. (2024) 10 SCC 690 3 2012: DHC: 3908 4 2009 SCC OnLine Gau 105: 2010 Cri LJ 4591 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 6 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 7. Learned counsel for the petitioners has further submitted that the
 learned ASJ has incorrectly held that petitioners used to collect money from
 the investors in their capacity as the agents of their company. However, there
 is not a single averment in the charge sheet in respect of the fact that the
 petitioners used to collect money in in the said capacity and it cannot be
 concluded on the basis of allegations levelled in the charge sheet that they
 were acting as agents of Multiplicity Chit Fund Company. It is the case of the
 petitioners that no offence as such has been committed by the company and in
 absence of any offence having been committed by the said company, the
 petitioners cannot be charged for the offence punishable under Section 409 of
 the IPC. It is further submitted that there is no vicarious liability of a director
 of a company as per law. It is further submitted that the petitioners had never
 induced or deception any of the complainants to invest nor there was any
 mens rea on their part to cheat the complainants. It is pointed out that as per
 the case of complainants, they were dealing with the petitioners for past two
 decades and were withdrawing committees from time to time and the same
 shows that petitioners never intended to cheat them. Therefore, the charge for
 the offence punishable under Section 420 of the IPC is not made out. Reliance
 has been placed on Vesa Holdings Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Kerala5 , to argue
 that for constituting the offence of cheating, the complainant(s) is required to
 show that the accused had fraudulent or dishonest intention at the time of
 making promise or representation. It is the case of the petitioners that they
 never intended to cheat the complainants at all and in the present case, a civil 5 (2015) 8 SCC 293 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 7 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 dispute has been given the colour of a criminal dispute. Moreover, in the
 present case has been registered belatedly after a span of 20 years. 8. Insofar as the charge for the offences punishable under PCMCS Act are
 concerned, it is submitted that both the courts below have not given any
 findings in respect of said offences. It is further submitted that the activity
 carried on by the petitioners cannot be considered as running "Prize Chit" or
 "Money Circulation Scheme" as defined under Section 3 of the PCMCS Act.
 Reliance has been placed on State of West Bengal v. Swapan Kumar Guha
 & Ors.6 , to contend that the clandestine manner of payment of interest in
 excess of the stipulated rate does not in any way indicate existence of any
 scheme for making quick or easy money. It is thus prayed that the impugned
 order framing charge passed by learned CMM be set aside and the petitioners
 be discharged in the present case FIR. 9. Per contra, learned APP for the State, assisted by learned counsel for
 the complainants, has submitted that allegations made in the present FIR
 against the petitioners are serious in nature inasmuch as they had siphoned off
 the money which was entrusted with them for returns by the complainant(s).
 It is further submitted that the learned ASJ had rightly observed that the
 charge for the offences punishable under Sections 409 / 420 of the IPC can be
 framed against the petitioners with the aid of Section 221 of the CrPC. It is 6 (1982) 1 SCC 561: AIR 1982 SC 949 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 8 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 the case of the complainant that the petitioners had dishonestly induced the
 complainant to with their hard-earned money and the said money was
 entrusted with the petitioners for the purpose of investment. However, the
 petitioners with the intent to deceive the complainants had misappropriated
 the said money for their own personal use. It Is further submitted that the
 findings of learned ASJ are correct and the conviction of the petitioners after
 the trial can be sustained for either of the offences with which they have been
 charged. 10. Regarding the charges for the offences punishable under PCMCS Act,
 it is submitted that the perusal of the charge sheet and the documents as well
 as the statements with it prima facie discloses the commission of offences
 under the PCMCS Act and the learner Trial Court at the stage of framing of
 charge is not required to conduct a mini trial at that stage and is only required
 to determine a prima facie case against the petitioners. Insofar as the delay in
 registration of FIR is concerned, it is submitted that the petitioners were
 running the subject schemes for several years and they continued to take
 money from several individuals till 2019. It is submitted that the contents of
 FIR and the statements of the victims recorded during the investigation would
 show that the money taken from the complainant(s) were invested over a
 period of time on the promise of returns. However, when there was inability
 on the part of the petitioners to repay the sum of money the complainant(s)
 had filed the complaint based on which FIR in the present case was registered. 11. It was further submitted that during the course of investigation and the
 documents collected from the petitioners, it was revealed that the money
 taken from the complainant and other investors was further transferred into
 various accounts which were handled by the petitioners and the said money
 was used by them for their personal purposes. It is the case of the
 complainants that the manner in which the petitioners have taken their money
 and thereafter sold their assets shows that they intended to deceive and siphon
 off the money received from the complainants. Thus, it is prayed that the
 impugned order on framing charge as upheld by learned ASJ in revision does
 not suffer from any infirmity or perversity and the present petition is to be
 dismissed. 12. Learned counsel for the complainant has relied on following precedents
 to oppose the present petition: - LNIND 2108 GAU 49: CRL.PET./379/2013 decided vide judgment dated 04.01.2018 by learned Single
 Judge of Gauhati High Court 8 (2008) 10 SCC 681 9 (2023) 7 SCC 711: 2023 INSC 595 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 10 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 13. Heard learned counsels for parties and perused the record. 14. The main thrust of argument of learned counsel for the petitioners is
 that the charge for the offences punishable under Sections 420 / 406 of the IPC
 cannot go together as ingredients of the both the said offences are exclusive to
 one another. Reliance is placed on judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court Delhi
 Race Club (1940) Limited and Ors. (supra) wherein, it was observed and
 held as under: - 36. What can be discerned from the above is that the offences of criminal
 breach of trust ( Section 406 IPC) and cheating ( Section 420 IPC) have
 specific ingredients: Similarly, in respect of an offence under Section 420IPC, the essential
 ingredients are: 37. Further, in both the aforesaid sections, mens rea i.e. intention to
 defraud or the dishonest intention must be present, and in the case of
 cheating it must be there from the very beginning or inception. 38. In our view, the plain reading of the complaint fails to spell out any
 of the aforesaid ingredients noted above. We may only say, with a view
 to clear a serious misconception of law in the mind of the police as well
 as the courts below, that if it is a case of the complainant that offence of
 criminal breach of trust as defined under Section 405IPC, punishable
 under Section 406IPC, is committed by the accused, then in the same
 breath it cannot be said that the accused has also committed the offence
 of cheating as defined and explained in Section 415IPC, punishable
 under Section 420IPC. 39. Every act of breach of trust may not result in a penal offence of
 criminal breach of trust unless there is evidence of manipulating act of
 fraudulent misappropriation. An act of breach of trust involves a civil
 wrong in respect of which the person may seek his remedy for damages
 in civil courts but, any breach of trust with a mens rea, gives rise to a
 criminal prosecution as well. It has been held in Hari Prasad
 Chamaria v. Bishun Kumar Surekha [Hari Prasad Chamaria v. Bishun
 Kumar Surekha, (1973) 2 SCC 823 : 1973 SCC (Cri) 1082] as under : 40. To put it in other words, the case of cheating and dishonest intention
 starts with the very inception of the transaction. But in the case of
 criminal breach of trust, a person who comes into possession of the
 movable property and receives it legally, but illegally retains it or
 converts it to his own use against the terms of the contract, then the
 question is, in a case like this, whether the retention is with dishonest
 intention or not, whether the retention involves criminal breach of trust
 or only a civil liability would depend upon the facts of each case. 41. The distinction between mere breach of contract and the offence of
 criminal breach of trust and cheating is a fine one. In case of cheating,
 the intention of the accused at the time of inducement should be looked
 into which may be judged by a subsequent conduct, but for this, the
 subsequent conduct is not the sole test. Mere breach of contract cannot
 give rise to a criminal prosecution for cheating unless fraudulent or
 dishonest intention is shown right from the beginning of the transaction Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 14 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 i.e. the time when the offence is said to have been committed. Therefore,
 it is this intention, which is the gist of the offence. 42. Whereas, for the criminal breach of trust, the property must have
 been entrusted to the accused or he must have dominion over it. The
 property in respect of which the offence of breach of trust has been
 committed must be either the property of some person other than the
 accused or the beneficial interest in or ownership of it must be of some
 other person. The accused must hold that property on trust of such other
 person. Although the offence i.e. the offence of breach of trust and
 cheating involve dishonest intention, yet they are mutually exclusive and
 different in basic concept. 43. There is a distinction between criminal breach of trust and cheating.
 For cheating, criminal intention is necessary at the time of making a false
 or misleading representation i.e. since inception. In criminal breach of
 trust, mere proof of entrustment is sufficient. Thus, in case of criminal
 breach of trust, the offender is lawfully entrusted with the property, and
 he dishonestly misappropriated the same. Whereas, in case of cheating,
 the offender fraudulently or dishonestly induces a person by deceiving
 him to deliver any property. In such a situation, both the offences cannot
 co-exist simultaneously. 44. At the most, the Court of the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate
 could have issued process for the offence punishable under Section
 420IPC i.e. cheating but in any circumstances no case of criminal breach
 of trust is made out. The reason being that indisputably there is no
 entrustment of any property in the case at hand. It is not even the case of
 the complainant that any property was lawfully entrusted to the
 appellants and that the same has been dishonestly misappropriated. The
 case of the complainant is plain and simple. He says that the price of the
 goods sold by him has not been paid. Once there is a sale, Section
 406IPC goes out of picture. According to the complainant, the invoices
 raised by him were not cleared. No case worth the name of cheating is
 also made out. 45. Even if the Magistrate would have issued process for the offence
 punishable under Section 420IPC i.e. cheating, the same would have
 been liable to be quashed and set aside, as none of the ingredients to
 constitute the offence of cheating are disclosed from the materials on
 record. 46. It has been held in State of Gujarat v. Jaswantlal Nathalal [State of
 Gujarat v. Jaswantlal Nathalal, 1967 SCC OnLine SC 58 : AIR 1968 SC
 700 : (1968) 2 SCR 408] : (SCC OnLine SC para 8)

 "8. The term "entrusted" found in Section 405IPC governs not only
 the words "with the property" immediately following it but also the
 words "or with any dominion over the property" occurring
 thereafter--see Velji Raghavji Patel v. State of Maharashtra [Velji
 Raghavji Patel v. State of Maharashtra, 1964 SCC OnLine SC 185 : (emphasis supplied) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 17 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 48. The aforesaid exposition of law makes it clear that there should be
 some entrustment of property to the accused wherein the ownership is
 not transferred to the accused. In case of sale of movable property,
 although the payment may be deferred yet the property in the goods
 passes on delivery as per Sections 20 and 24, respectively, of the Sale of
 Goods Act, 1930 . 49. From the aforesaid, there is no manner of any doubt whatsoever that
 in case of sale of goods, the property passes to the purchaser from the
 seller when the goods are delivered. Once the property in the goods
 passes to the purchaser, it cannot be said that the purchaser was entrusted
 with the property of the seller. Without entrustment of property, there
 cannot be any criminal breach of trust. Thus, prosecution of cases on
 charge of criminal breach of trust, for failure to pay the consideration
 amount in case of sale of goods is flawed to the core. There can be civil
 remedy for the non-payment of the consideration amount, but no criminal
 case will be maintainable for it. [See : Lalit Chaturvedi v. State of
 U.P. [Lalit Chaturvedi v. State of U.P., (2024) 12 SCC 483 : 2024 SCC Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 18 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 OnLine SC 171] and Mideast Integrated Steels Ltd. v. State of
 Jharkhand [Mideast Integrated Steels Ltd. v. State of Jharkhand, 2023
 SCC OnLine Jhar 301] .] 50. The case at hand falls in Category 1 as laid
 in Nagawwa [Nagawwa v. Veeranna Shivalingappa Konjalgi , (1976) 3
 SCC 736 : 1976 SCC (Cri) 507] referred to in para 17 of this judgment. 51. If it is the case of the complainant that a particular amount is due and
 payable to him then he should have filed a civil suit for recovery of the
 amount against the appellants herein. But he could not have gone to the
 Court of the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate by filing a complaint of
 cheating and criminal breach of trust. It appears that till this date, the
 complainant has not filed any civil suit for recovery of the amount which
 according to him is due and payable to him by the appellants. He seems
 to have prima facie lost the period of limitation for filing such a civil suit. 52. In such circumstances referred to above , the continuation of the
 criminal proceeding would be nothing but abuse of the process of law." 15. In the aforesaid case the facts were that the complainant therein had
 supplied goods to the accused and since they failed to make the payment, the
 complainant filed against them a complaint and after conducting the inquiry
 under Section 202 of the CrPC, the learned Trial Court had issued summons
 to the accused persons therein for the offence punishable under Section 406 of
 the IPC. It is in the aforesaid circumstances, the Hon'ble Supreme Court ruled
 that the case was one of an unpaid seller. In the present case, the allegation is
 with respect to the petitioners running a chit fund company and alluring the
 complainants to get their money deposited with them for investment in
 various companies and chit fund schemes. It is the case of the prosecution that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 19 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 the petitioners were running the business of chit funds/committees of 4-5
 groups approximately 20 persons each with a promise of return of 15 to 28%
 interest per annum and those interests also remained with the petitioners for
 further capital appreciation. 16. It is the case of the prosecution that in 2019, the petitioners sold their
 house and fled away without paying the complainant/victims (investors)
 either the principal amount or the interest. Material has been placed on record
 by the prosecution to show that the properties were purchased by the
 petitioners from the money invested by the complainants as well as siphoning
 off funds from the account of the company, accused/petitioner No.3, to their
 personal accounts as well as other accounts in the name of entities run by
 them. The details of amount invested by the victims in the chit funds groups,
 committees' group, and loan for 18% per annum interest in the firm of
 petitioner no. 1 is reproduced as under: - 17. Similarly, details of the transactions from the chit funds groups to the
 personal account of the petitioners/accused are as under: - Signing Date:28.08.2025
19:47:46 18. The prosecution has also placed on record details of the chit funds
 groups where the petitioners had withdrawn the amount in the name of
 subsidiary company, chit fund company run by them, which are as under: - 19. In the present case, the transactions were ongoing. The
 complainants/victims continued to invest with the petitioners over a period of
 time on their assurance of giving them returns as pointed out hereinabove. It
 has also come on record that the petitioners continued to retain the alleged
 interest accrued to the investors for its further appreciation. It has also come
 on record that the monies were fraudulently transferred from the account of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 37 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 chit funds company run by the petitioners to their personal account or account
 of other entities run by them. 20. In these circumstances, at this stage, dishonest intention on part of the
 petitioners to induce the investors to make investments to them with no
 intention to return cannot be completely ruled out. It is not the case of the
 petitioners that they had further invested the amounts for return or otherwise.
 In these circumstances, during the course of the trial, the petitioners can
 demonstrate that they had no such dishonest intention at that relevant point of
 time, then the offence punishable under Section 420 of the IPC would not be
 made out. However, the fact that the money invested by these investors were
 fraudulently transferred to the accounts run by the petitioners and other
 companies' prima facie amounts to commission of the breach of trust as
 defined under Section 405 of the IPC. Admittedly, the money was invested by
 the complainants and the petitioners being the directors of accused company,
 petitioner No.3, had dominion over the said money and without express
 consent of the said investors, money was transferred to other bank accounts of
 the petitioners. At the stage of charge, the learned Trial Court has framed
 charges for the offences punishable under Section 420 of the IPC as well as Section 409 of the IPC and it can proceed to do so in view of the provisions of Section 221 of the CrPC, which reproduced thus: - Before the Sessions Court A states on oath that B never hit C. A may be
 charged in the alternative and convicted of intentionally giving false
 evidence, although it cannot be proved which of these contradictory
 statements was false." (emphasis supplied) 21. At this stage, it will be relevant to refer to a judgment delivered by a
 three Judge Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sunil Kumar Paul v.
 State of West Bengal 11 . The appellant therein was tried for the offence 11 1964 SCC OnLine SC 260: AIR 1965 SC 706 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 39 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 punishable under Section 409 of the IPC and was convicted and sentenced by
 the learned Trial Court/Special Judge for the said offence. On an appeal being
 filed assailing the conviction by the appellant before the High Court, the High
 Court while agreeing with the appellant's contention held that no offence
 punishable under Section 409 of the IPC has been made out. However, it was
 held that Section 420 of the IPC has been committed by the appellant and
 accordingly, his conviction was altered from an offence punishable under Section 409 of the IPC to Section 420 of the IPC for cheating the employees
 of the State Bank, Barrackpore. This finding of the High Court was assailed
 before the Hon'ble Supreme Court and while examining the applicability of Section 236 of the CrPC, 1898, (corresponding to Section 221(1) of the CrPC,
 1973), it was observed and held as under: - Illustration
 A is charged with theft. It appears that he committed the offence of
 criminal breach of trust, or that of receiving stolen goods. He may
 be convicted of criminal breach of trust or of receiving stolen goods
 (as the case may be) though he was not charged with such offence." The framing of a charge under Section 236 is, in the nature of things,
 earlier than the stage when it can be said what facts have been proved, a
 stage which is reached when the court delivers its judgment. The power
 of the court to frame various charges contemplated by Section 236 CrPC therefore arises when it cannot be said with any definiteness,
 either by the prosecutor or by the court, that such and such facts
 would be proved. The court had at the time of framing the charges,
 therefore to consider what different offences could be made out on the
 basis of the allegations made by the prosecution in the complaint or in
 the charge submitted by the investigating agency or by the allegations
 made by the various prosecution witnesses examined prior to the framing
 of the charge. All such possible offences could be charged in view of
 the provisions of Section 236 CrPC as it can be reasonably said that
 it was doubtful as to which of the offences the facts which could be
 ultimately proved would constitute. The facts which must have been
 alleged prior to the stage of the framing of the charge in the present case
 must have been what had been stated in the charge-sheet submitted by
 the investigating officer, 24-Parganas, which is printed at p. 3 of the
 appeal record. This charge-sheet narrates in the column meant for the
 name of offences and circumstances connected with it: It is practically on these facts that the conviction of the appellant for an
 offence under Section 420 IPC has been founded. It follows that the
 Special Court could therefore have framed a charge under Section
 420 IPC at the relevant time if it had been of the opinion that it was
 doubtful whether these facts constitute an offence under Section 409 IPC as stated in the charge-sheet or an offence under Section 420 IPC. 16. When a charge under Section 420 IPC could have been framed by the
 trial court by virtue of Section 236 CrPC that court or the appellate court
 can in law, convict the appellant of this offence instead of an offence
 under Section 409 IPC if it be of the view that the offence of cheating
 bad been established. This would be in accordance with the provisions of Section 237 CrPC
 In Begu v. King Emperor [52 IA 191] Sections 236 and 237 were
 construed by Viscount Haldane thus: This was approved by this Court in Ramaswamy Nadar v. State of
 Madras [(1958) SCR 739, 747] . In this case, the accused, acquitted of an
 offence under Section 420 IPC was convicted by the High Court of an
 offence under Section 403 IPC. This Court held that the High Court
 could do so. On facts, however, this Court did not find the offence under
 Section 403, proved. **** **** **** 19. We therefore hold that at the trial of the appellant for an offence
 under Section 409 IPC, in this case, the appellant could have also
 been charged for an offence under Section 420 IPC in view of Section
 236 of the Code of Criminal Procedure." (emphasis supplied) 22. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Delhi Race Club (1940) Limited and
 Ors. (supra), had come to the conclusion in the facts of the said case, as
 already noted hereinbefore, which were with respect to sale and purchase of
 certain goods, and therefore, ingredients of Section 406 of the IPC were not
 be made out. There is no doubt that the legal position is that a person cannot
 be convicted for Sections 409 / 420 of the IPC simultaneously. However, at the
 time of consideration on point of charge, in view of the provision of Section
 221 of the CrPC, the learned Trial Court can proceed to frame the charge
 under both the offences. 23. Similarly, the other cases relied on by learned counsel for the
 petitioners are also distinguishable on facts from the present case. Reliance
 placed by the learned counsel for the petitioners on Mahindra and
 Mahindra Financial Services Ltd. (supra) is misplaced as in the said case Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 43 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 Coordinate Bench of this Court was dealing with a case assailing order taking
 cognizance, at the stage of summoning in a complaint case filed by the
 complainant therein and the provisions of Section 221 of the CrPC were not
 dealt with or discussed in the said case. In Wolfgang Reim & Ors. (supra),
 Coordinate Bench of this Court was dealing with a petition seeking quashing
 of FIR, inter alia, registered under similar provisions as in the present case
 and the provisions of Section 221 of the CrPC were not dealt with by the
 Court at that stage. In N. Raghavender (supra), the appellant therein was
 convicted by the learned Trial Court/Special Judge and his conviction was
 upheld by the High Court. In this case, the observations made by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court were in a case of conviction after complete trial. However, in
 the present case, the trial is yet to commence and the order impugned herein is
 order framing charge. 24. It was also argued on behalf of the petitioner Nos. 1 and 2 that they are
 not 'agents' within the meaning of Section 409 of the IPC as they were
 'Directors' of petitioner No.3/accused, Multicity Chit Fund Pvt. Ltd. The
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Shivnarayan Laxminarayan Joshi & Ors. v.
 State of Maharashtra 12 , while dealing with a similar contention, had
 observed and held as under: - This has been held in People Bank v. Harkishen Lal [AIR 1936 Lah 408,
 409] which was approved by this Court. In this connection this Court
 observed as follows: 6. In Peoples Bank v. Harkishen Lal [AIR 1936 Lah 408, 409] it was
 stated: 7. In Palmer's Company Law, 20th Edn., it is stated at p. 517: 8. Similarly this Court pointed out that in case of G.E.R. &
 Co. v. Turner [LR (1872) 8 Ch App 149, 152] Lord Selborne observed: 9. The same view was taken in Re Forest of Dean [LR (1878) 10 Ch D
 450, 453] wherein in Sir George Jessel observed as follows: 10. This Court while approving the cases mentioned above observed as
 follows: 11. Thus, this Court fully approved the law laid down by the cases
 mentioned above that a director was clearly in the position of a
 trustee and being a trustee of the assets which has come into his
 hand he had dominion and control over the same. A clear finding to
 this effect has also been given by the High Court at p. 33 of the judgment
 where the High Court has observed as follows: (emphasis supplied) 25. In view of the aforesaid discussion and in facts and circumstances of
 the present case, the impugned order framing charge dated 19.07.2022 passed
 by learned CJM insofar as it relates to framing of charges against the
 petitioners for the offences punishable under Sections 409/420 read with Section 120B of the IPC, is upheld. 26. The petitioners have also been charged for the offences punishable
 under Sections 4/5/6 of the PCMCS Act. The said charge in order to be
 sustained qua the petitioners must come under the definition of "Prize Chit" 27. Sections 2(a), 2(c) and 2(e) of the PCMCS Act reads as under: - Explanation.--In this clause "prize amount" shall mean the
 amount, by whatever name called, arrived at by deducting from out
 of the total amount paid or payable at each instalment by all the
 subscribers, (i) the commission charged as service charges as a promoter
 or a foreman or an agent; and (ii) any sum which a subscriber agrees to forego, from out of
 the total subscriptions of each instalment, in consideration of
 the balance being paid to him; **** **** **** (c) "money circulation scheme" means any scheme, by whatever
 name called, for the making of quick or easy money, or for the
 receipt of any money or valuable thing as the consideration for a
 promise to pay money, on any event or contingency relative or
 applicable to the enrolment of members into the scheme, whether or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 47 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 not such money or thing is derived from the entrance money of the
 members of such scheme or periodical subscriptions; **** **** **** (e) "prize chit" includes any transaction or arrangement by
 whatever name called under which a person collects whether as a
 promoter, foreman, agent or in any other capacity, monies in one
 lump sum or in instalments by way of contributions or
 subscriptions or by sale of units, certificates or other instruments or
 in any other manner or as membership fees or admission fees or
 service charges to or in respect of any savings, mutual benefit,
 thrift, or any other scheme or arrangement by whatever name
 called, and utilises the monies so collected or any part thereof or the
 income accruing from investment or other use of such monies for
 all or any of the following purposes, namely-- (i) giving or awarding periodically or otherwise to a specified
 number of subscribers as determined by lot, draw or in any
 other manner, prizes or gifts in cash or in kind, whether or not
 the recipient of the prize or gift is under a liability to make
 any further payment in respect of such scheme or
 arrangement; (ii) refunding to the subscribers or such of them as have not
 won any prize or gift, the whole or part of the subscriptions,
 contributions or other monies collected, with or without any
 bonus, premium, interest or other advantage by whatever
 name called, on the termination of the scheme or
 arrangement, or on or after the expiry of the period stipulated
 therein,
 but does not include a conventional chit;" 28. Learned counsel for the petitioners, regarding the offences punishable
 under provisions of PCMCS Act, has placed reliance on Swapan Kumar
 Guha (supra), to contend that the act carried on by them cannot be
 considered as running "Prize Chit' or "Money Circulation Scheme" as defined Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 48 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 under clauses (e) & (c) respectively of Section 2 of the PCMCS. The relevant
 portion of the observations made therein read thus: - within the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Act, howsoever high the
 promised rate of interest may be in comparison with the agreed rate.
 What that section requires is that such reciprocal promises, express or
 implied, must depend for their performance on the happening of an event
 or contingency relative or applicable to the enrolment of members into
 the scheme. In other words, there has to be a community of interest in the
 happening of such event or contingency. That explains why Section 3 makes it an offence to "participate" in the scheme or to remit any money
 "in pursuance of such scheme". He who conducts or promotes a
 money-spinning project may have manifold resources from which to
 pay fanciful interest by luring the unwary customer. But, unless the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 49 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 project envisages a mutual arrangement under which, the happening
 or non-happening of an event or contingency relative or applicable
 to the enrolment of members into that arrangement is of the essence,
 there can be no "money circulation scheme" within the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Act. **** **** **** 10. The question as to whether the first information report prima facie
 discloses an offence under Section 4 read with Section 3 of the Act has to
 be decided in the light of these requirements of Section 2(c) of the Act. I
 have already reproduced in extenso the FIR lodged by the Commercial
 Tax Officer, Bureau of Investigation. Analysing it carefully, and even
 liberally, it makes the following allegations against the firm "Sanchaita
 Investments" and its three partners: It seems to me impossible to hold on the basis of these allegations that
 any offence can be said to be made out prima facie under Section 3 of the
 Act. In the first place, the FIR does not allege, directly or indirectly, that
 the firm was promoting or conducting a scheme for the making of quick
 or easy money, dependent on any event or contingency relative or
 applicable to the enrolment of members into the scheme. Secondly, the
 FIR does not contain any allegation whatsoever that persons who
 advanced or deposited their monies with the firm were participants of a
 scheme for the making of quick or easy money, dependent upon any such
 event or contingency. The FIR bears on its face the stamp of hurry and
 want of care. It seems to assume, what was argued before us by Shri
 Somnath Chatterjee on behalf of the prosecution, that it is enough for the
 purposes of Section 2(c) to show that the accused is promoting or
 conducting a scheme for the making of quick or easy money, an Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 50 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 assumption which I have shown to be fallacious. An essential ingredient
 of Section 2(c) is that the scheme for making quick or easy money must
 be dependent on any event or contingency relative or applicable to the
 enrolment of members into the scheme. A first information report which
 does not allege or disclose that the essential requirements of the penal
 provision are prima facie satisfied, cannot form the foundation or
 constitute the starting point of a lawful investigation." (emphasis supplied) 29. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless
 General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. and Others13 , while answering
 the issue, "Is a prize-less chit a prize chit?", has observed and held as under: - "30. So, the court was of the view that the Prize Chits and Money
 Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act was designed to fight the baser
 human instinct of gambling aroused by the prize element involved in the
 banned transactions. The court concluded that it was the prize element
 that brought it within the mischief of the Act and that without the prize
 element it would be no different from a Conventional Chit, considered
 harmless by the Parliament. We must notice here that in a "Conventional
 Chit" as defined in the Act, though every subscriber is entitled to the
 prize amount, some get it sooner than the others depending on the result
 of the auction or the draw and to the extent that it depends on a draw
 there is a slight element of chance. In the recurring deposit schemes such
 as the ones we are concerned with, even that element of chance is
 lacking. If "Conventional Chits" are not banned, it is a legitimate
 question to ask whether Parliament could have contemplated the banning
 of schemes not involving the element of the kind of harm intended to be
 prevented, even to the slight degree as in Conventional Chits? **** **** **** 34. We have already referred to the Bhabatosh and Raj Study Groups'
 Reports and recommendations. In para 6.3 of the latter report the two 13 (1987) 1 SCC 424 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 51 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 common and basic features of prize chits by whatever name known were
 identified as the giving of prizes to the lucky ones and the refunding of
 subscription to everyone. These prize chits by whatever name known
 were recommended to be banned. It was this recommendation that was
 accepted by Parliament in enacting the Prize Chits and Money
 Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act . If this much is borne in mind it
 becomes evident that the two requirements mentioned in the two clauses (i) and (ii) of the definition are not to be read disjunctively; they are two
 distinct attributes of "Prize Chits", each of which has to be satisfied. It is
 important to notice here that the Conventional Chit satisfies both the
 requirements of the definition of "Prize Chit", since, as we have already
 pointed out, it involves both the "certain" and the "chance" elements, the
 certain element being the refund of the amount of subscriptions less the
 deductions and the chance element being the time of such payment,
 dependent on the result of the draw or auction. Yet the definition of
 "Prize Chit" expressly excludes the Conventional Chit obviously for the
 reason that the "chance" element is overshadowed by the "certain"
 clement. If so, why should any construction be placed on the definition
 so as to bring in all recurring deposit schemes, even if they do not
 involve a chance element? Such a construction would reduce the
 definition to a near absurdity and render the reference to the giving or
 awarding of a prize or gift, a meaningless superfluity. If a Conventional
 Chit is not a "Prize Chit" by definition, there appears to be no logic in
 construing the definition to include a recurring deposit scheme. The
 argument is that the two clauses (i) and (ii) are to be read disjunctively
 and that they should not be read as if they are joined by the conjunction
 "and". We do not agree. There is no need to introduce the word "or"
 either. How clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 2(e) have to be read depends
 on the context. The context requires the definition to be read as if both
 clauses have to be satisfied. There is nothing in the text which makes it
 imperative that it be read otherwise. The learned counsel urges that the
 expression "all or any of the following purposes" indicates that the
 purpose may be either the one mentioned in (i) or the one mentioned in (ii). We do not agree with this submission. Each of the clauses (i) and (ii)
 contains a number of alternatives and it is to those several alternatives
 that the expression "all or any of the following purposes" refers and not
 to (i) or (ii) which are not alternatives at all. In fact, a Prize Chit, by
 whatever name it may be called, does not contemplate the exhaustion of
 the entire fund by the giving of prizes; it invariably provides for a refund
 of the amount of subscription, less the deductions, to all the subscribers Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 52 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46 or to those who have not won prizes, depending on the nature of the
 scheme. Clauses (i) and (ii) refer to the twin attributes of a Prize Chit or
 like scheme and not to two alternate attributes." 30. As per the case of prosecution, as alleged by the complainants, the
 petitioners were carrying activity related to finance under various
 names/companies for chit fund/committee where they had allegedly allured
 the complainants to invest/deposit the money under the pretext of running
 committees with the promise of return at the time of maturity. The said
 investments were made on the promise of interest @ 28% per annum which
 remained with the petitioners for further capital appreciation and the same
 cannot be termed as giving or awarding periodically a prize chit or as a money
 circulation scheme. In view of the observations made by Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in Swapan Kumar Guha (supra) and Peerless General Finance and
 Investment Co. Ltd. and Others (supra) and in facts and circumstances of
 the present case, the petitioners cannot be stated to be running a "Money
 Circulation Scheme" or "Prize Chit" as defined within the meaning of clauses (c) & (e) respectively, of Sections 2 of the PCMCS Act. 31. In view of the aforesaid, the charges framed by the learned Trial
 Court/CJM vide order dated 19.07.2022 against the petitioners for the
 offences punishable under Sections 4/5/6 of the PCMCS Act are set aside. 32. The present petition is partly allowed and disposed of accordingly. 33. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of accordingly. 34. Needless to state that, nothing mentioned hereinabove, is an opinion on
 the merits of the case or on the pending trial against the present Petitioners
 and any observations made herein are only for the purpose of the present
 petition. 35. Copy of the judgment be sent to the concerned learned Trial Court for
 necessary information and compliance. 36. Judgment be uploaded on the website of this Court forthwith. AMIT SHARMA, J. AUGUST 27, 2025/bsr/ns Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI CRL.M.C.1186/2023 Page 54 of 54 Signing Date:28.08.2025 19:47:46